A partly submerged  हिमानी गुफा on perito मोरेनो  Glacier .
The ice facade is  लगभग 60 m ऊँची
Ice formations in  the titlis हिमानी गुफा
A glacier cave is a cave formed  भीतर the बर्फ of a हिमानी  .
Glacier caves are often  पुकारा बर्फ गुफाएं , लकिन इस पद is properly प्रयुक्त to describe  bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the circumference of a  वृत्त or रोटेशन साथ a गोलाकार  path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular rate of  रोटेशन ( और निरंतर गति ) , or non-uniform साथ a बदलना रेट  of rotation .
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional  देह involves गोलाकार गति of इसके भाग  .
The equations of motion  describe the गति of the  center of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion  शामिल : an कृत्रिम उपग्रह orbiting the धरती at निरंतर ऊँचाई , a स्टोन जिससे is tied to a रस्सी और is होने swung in वृत्त , a car turning through a वक्र in a रेस track , an इलेक्ट्रॉन  moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's velocity  वेक्टर is constantly बदलना दिशा , the चलती ऑब्जेक्ट is undergoing  acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without this acceleration , the  ऑब्जेक्ट होता मूव in a सीधा लकीर , according to न्यूटन 's कानून  of motion .
Apollo Creed is a  fictional अक्षर इससे the रॉकी films , initially portrayed  as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World .
he थी निभाई by  Carl Weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames ,  सहित the निपुण of विपत्ति , the किंग of स्टिंग , the नाचना विनाशक  , The Prince of Punch , The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed  's नाम is a wordplay on the रसूलों ' पंथ , a बयान of विश्वास प्रयुक्त in ईसाई चर्च  .
All of Apollo 's  चैंपियनशिप झगड़े यहूद अनुसूचित  for the 15 round distance .
चैंपियनशिप झगड़े किया नहीं बदलें  from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed was  the पहला man to पहनें उन्हें ( latterly worn by रॉकी बाल्बोआ in the 3rd और 4th किश्तों और आखिरकार by टॉमी `` the यंत्र '' gunn ( टॉमी मॉरिसन ) in the 5th किश्त )  although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's  हस्ताक्षर रंगों यहूद ब्लैक और gold—colors  he used in the latest movie .
In the United States , the  शीर्षक of संघीय न्यायधीश प्रायः अर्थात् a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the  Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the  संवैधानिक शक्ति of कॉंग्रेस to alter , अधिनियमों of कॉंग्रेस have स्थापित 13 न्यायालयों of appeals ( भी पुकारा `` सर्किट न्यायालयों '' ) साथ appellate क्षेत्राधिकार over अलग regions of the संयुक्त राज्य , और 94 संयुक्त राज्य  district courts .
Every judge  नियुक्त to ऐसे a अदालत may be categorized as a संघीय न्यायधीश ; ऐसे स्थितियाँ शामिल the मुख्य इंसाफ और संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत , सर्किट न्यायाधीशों  of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of  ये न्यायाधीशों वर्णित यूँ दूर हैं referred to sometimes as `` आलेख iii न्यायाधीशों '' क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक  branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of  अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार कसरत न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant to आलेख  III .
Other judges  सेवारत in the संघीय न्यायालयों , सहित मजिस्ट्रेट न्यायाधीशों और दिवालियापन न्यायाधीशों , हैं भी sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों  '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
See  आलेख i और आलेख iii अधिकरणों  .
The Beretta 21A  बॉबकैट is a छोटी pocket-sized semi-automatic पिस्टल  designed by Beretta in Italy .
Production began in late 1984 ,  solely in the beretta u.s.A. सुविधा in accokeek , मेरीलैंड  .
It is a further development of the Beretta Model 20  , जिनकी उत्पादन ended in 1985  .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often  shortened to vul ) is a प्रकार of जीवन बीमे कि  builds a cash value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be  invested in a चौड़ी किस्में of पृथक खाते , समान to परस्पर निधि , और the चुनाव of जिससे  of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to  इस क्षमता to invest in पृथक खाते जिनकी मान vary—they vary क्युकी वे हैं invested in भण्डार  and/or bond markets .
the 'universal ' घटक in the नाम refers to the लचीलापन  the owner has in making premium payments .
The  प्रीमियम can vary इससे nothing in a दिए माह up to maximums पारिभाषित  by the Internal Revenue Code for life insurance .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments that  typically can नहीं be छूटी बगैर lapsing the नीति ( हालांकि एक may कसरत an स्वचालित प्रीमियम ऋण विशेषता , or आत्मसमर्पण dividends to अदा  a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life  बीमे , क्युकी the मौत लाभ होगा be सशुल्क if the insured मरता कोई समय as long as वहीँ is sufficient नकदी मान to अदा the लागत of बीमे  in the policy .
साथ सबसे if नहीं सब vuls , नापसंद पूरे जीवन , वहीँ is no endowment आयु ( the आयु at जिससे  the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another  कुंजी लाभ of vul over  Whole Life .
With a typical whole life  नीति , the मौत लाभ is सीमित to the फेस राशि निर्दिष्ट in the नीति  , and at endowment age , the face amount is all that is paid out .
Thus  साथ either मौत or endowment , the बीमे कम्पनी keeps कोई नकदी मान निर्मित  up over the years .
However ,  कुछ participating पूरे जीवन नीतियों प्रस्ताव राइडर्स जिससे बताएँ कि कोई dividends सशुल्क on the नीति  be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time .
If investments made  in the पृथक खाते out-perform the सामान्य खाता of the बीमे कम्पनी , a उच्चतर rate-of-return can  occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return  is अर्जित in the पृथक खाते of a vul नीति , इस could परिणाम in उच्चतर मान to the मालिक or लाभार्थी than कि of a पूरे जीवन नीति साथ the वही amounts of धन सशुल्क in as  premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic wood stove  adapted लिये set-up बाहरी जबकि स्टिल transferring the ऊष्मा to आंतरिक इमारतें  .
A mound  of लड़की स्काउट  cookies .
This  mound contains 74 बाक्स  of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by  लड़की स्काउट of the यूएसए ( gsusa ) as एक of इसके प्रमुख fundraisers  for local Scout units .
Members of the GSUSA have  महरूम selling कुकीज़ चूंकि 1917  to raise funds .
Girls who  participate can earn  prizes for their efforts .
There are also unit  प्रोत्साहन if the ईकाई as a पूरे  does well .
as of 2007 , बिक्री यहूद अनुमानित  at about 200 million boxes per year .
विश्वविद्यालयों  Hall
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette ,  इंडियाना , is the फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the six-campus  Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant  विश्वविद्यालयों जब the इंडियाना सामान्य सभा , लेने लाभ of the morrill अधिनियम , स्वीकृत a दान of जमीन और धन इससे lafayette  businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science , technology , and agriculture in his name .
The first classes  यहूद आयोजित on सितंबर 16 , 1874 , साथ छह instructors  and 39 students .
आज , purdue is a सदस्य of the बिग टेन सम्मेलन ,  and is a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the  चौथी largest अंतरराष्ट्रीय छात्र जनसांख्यिकी of कोई विश्वविद्यालयों in the संयुक्त  States .
Purdue offers both  undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट कार्यक्रम in over 211 प्रमुख क्षेत्रों of  study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of  विमानन , having स्थापित the पहला कॉलेज क्रेडिट offered in उड़ान प्रशिक्षण , the पहला four-year स्नातक 's उपाधि in विमानन , और the  first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
purdue 's विमानन प्रौद्योगिकी कार्यक्रम remains एक of the सबसे प्रतिस्पर्धी aviation-specific  programs in the world .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded to  encompass उन्नत spaceflight प्रौद्योगिकी giving वृद्धि to purdue 's उपनाम , पालना of astronauts  .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts  , सहित गस grissom ( एक of the असली पारा सात astronauts ) , neil आर्मस्ट्रांग ( the पहला व्यक्ति to चलना on the चंद्रमा ) , और यूजीन cernan (  the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
a वसामय गाँठ ( ) is a पद कि loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts  ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid cyst  originates in the epidermis और a पिलर गाँठ originates इससे बाल follicles , by परिभाषा  , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the  वसीय , श्वेत , semi-solid सामग्री in दोनो of ये गाँठ entities is नहीं sebum ,  but keratin .
Furthermore , under the microscope  neither एंटिटी contains वसामय  glands .
In practice , however , the terms  हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are known  as steatocystomas or , if अनेक , as steatocystoma मल्टीप्लेक्स  .
Modern  pointe जूते .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot  और टो बक्सा लिये cushioning , can be देखी on the सही  foot .
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet  नर्तक जब performing pointe  work .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to  enable नर्तक to नृत्य en pointe ( on the नुस्ख़े of उनके toes ) लिये विस्तारित अवधि of समय .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella , Bottom in A  midsummer रात्रि 's सपना , or मेन performing as महिलाओं in नृत्य कंपनियाँ ऐसे as लेस नाटिकाओं trockadero और  Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a  किस्में of रंगों , सबसे commonly in शेड्स  of light pink .
This tablespoon  रै a क्षमता of परिचय 15 ml  .
measuring spoons
In the US and parts of Canada , a  tablespoon is the largest प्रकार of चमचा प्रयुक्त लिये खाने इससे  a bowl .
In the  uk , यूरोपीय और सबसे राष्ट्रमंडल देशों , a tablespoon is a प्रकार  of large spoon usually used for serving .
In countries where a  tablespoon is a सेवारत चमचा , the निकटतम समतुल्य to the us tablespoon is either the मिठाई  spoon or the soup spoon .
A  tablespoonful , nominally the क्षमता of  one tablespoon , is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is  abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp ,  tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary  tablespoons is नहीं regulated by विधि और is विषय to considerable  variation .
In the USA  एक tablespoon ( मापन ईकाई ) is लगभग 15 ml ; the क्षमता of an वास्तविक tablespoon (  dining utensil ) ranges from 7 mL to 14 mL .
In Australia  एक tablespoon ( मापन  unit ) is 20 mL .
Harry Potter is a series of  सात काल्पनिक novels लिखा by the अंग्रेजों  author J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , Harry Potter , and his friends Ronald  वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर , सब of जिसको हैं विद्यार्थी at हॉग्वार्ट्स स्कूल of चुड़ैल और wizardry  .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's  क्वेस्ट to overcome the अंधेरा जादूगर रब voldemort , जिनकी aims हैं to become अमर , जीतें the wizarding संसार , subjugate non-magical लोगों , और नष्ट सब those  who stand in his way , especially Harry Potter .
Since  the रिलीज of the पहला अनोखा हैरी कुम्हार और the पारस 's स्टोन on 30 जून 1997 , the किताबे  have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The series has  भी था कुछ share of आलोचना , सहित चिंता लिये  the increasingly dark tone .
, the book  श्रेणी रै बेची परिचय 450 लाख नक़ल , बनाना it the best-selling किताब श्रेणी in  history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
the पिछला चार किताबे consecutively नियत रिकॉर्ड as the fastest-selling  books in history .
A series of many genres ,  सहित काल्पनिक और coming of आयु ( साथ तत्व of रहस्य , थ्रिलर , एडवेंचर , और रोमांस ) , it रै अनेक सांस्कृतिक meanings और  references .
according to रोलिंग ,  the main theme is death .
There are also many  अन्य विषयवस्तु in the श्रेणी , ऐसे as पूर्वाग्रह और  corruption .
The  आरंभिक प्रमुख प्रकाशक of the किताबे यहूद bloomsbury in the संयुक्त किंगडम और scholastic  Press in the United States .
The books have since been  प्रकाशित by अनेक प्रकाशक  worldwide .
the किताबे , साथ the सातवाँ किताब विभाजित into दो भाग , have महरूम बना into an eight-part फिल्मी  series by Warner Bros. Pictures , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise ,  बनाना the हैरी कुम्हार ब्रांड लायक in excess of $ 15 अरब  .
Also due to the success of the books and films , Harry Potter has been used for  a थीम पार्क , the wizarding संसार of हैरी कुम्हार in सार्वभौमिक पार्क & रिसॉर्ट 's आइलैंड्स of एडवेंचर  .
RS-68  होने tested at नासा 's stennis स्पेस  Center .
The  nearly पारदर्शी exhaust is due to इस इंजन 's exhaust होने ज़्यादातर अतितप्त भाप  ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking  5c प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन
A  प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन , or बस `` प्रक्षेपास्त्र '' , is a जेट इंजन कि उपयोग तभी  stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket engines  हैं प्रतिक्रिया इंजन और obtain thrust in accordance  with Newton 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form their jet , rocket  इंजन can be प्रयुक्त लिये spacecraft नोदन  as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket  इंजन हैं आतंरिक दहन इंजन , हालांकि non-combusting  forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities , are  by दूर the lightest , लकिन हैं the तनिक propellant कुशल of सब प्रकार of जेट  engines .
`` ... baby एक अधिक समय '' is a सोंग by  American recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and title  track इससे उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम , ... baby एक अधिक  Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and  रामी , `` ... baby एक अधिक समय '' थी released on सितंबर 30 , 1998 , by  Jive Records .
After  रिकॉर्डिंग और sending a डेमो टेप साथ an अप्रयुक्त सोंग इससे toni  Braxton , Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop song  कि refers to a लड़की जो संताप तोड़कर up साथ उसके बॉयफ्रेंड  .
The song received generally favorable  समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , जो praised इसके संयोजन  .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' attained global success ,  reaching क्रमांक एक in प्रत्येक देश it charted  .
It also  प्राप्त numerous certifications around the संसार , और is एक of the best-selling singles  of all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
an accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो , निर्देशित by निगेल लंड , portrays स्पीयर्स as a छात्र इससे a कैथोलिक  high school , who starts to daydream that she is singing and dancing around the school , while watching her love interest from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) ,  जहाँ स्पीयर्स 's fictional बेटी is वेश साथ a समान schoolgirl पहनावा जबकि wearing गुलाबी ribbons in उसके  hair .
In 2010 , the  म्यूज़िक वीडियो लिये `` ... baby एक अधिक समय '' थी voted the तीसरा सबसे influential वीडियो  in the history of pop music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One  अधिक समय '' in a क्रमांक of सजीव दिखावे और in सब of उसके कॉन्सर्ट टुर  .
It was the encore of the ... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999  ) और सपना भीतर a सपना दौरे ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स भी performed remixed संस्करण of the सोंग दौरान  the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel Tour (  2004 ) , the m+m 's दौरे ( 2007 ) , the सर्कस अभिनीत britney स्पीयर्स ( 2009 ) , और the femme fatale  Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy Award  लिये बेहतरीन मादा पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन , और रै महरूम शामिल  in lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted for  redefining the ध्वनि of लेट 1990s म्यूज़िक .
Spears has named `` ... Baby One  अधिक समय '' as एक of उसके पसंदीदा गीतों इससे  her career .
it थी भी the फाइनल सोंग to be निभाई on the बीबीसी  's music programme Top of the Pops .
Cholera is an infection in  the छोटी आंत caused by the bacterium vibrio  cholerae .
The main symptoms  हैं watery अतिसार और उल्टी  .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water  or खाने खाना कि रै महरूम contaminated by the मल ( बर्बाद उत्पाद ) of an संक्रमित  person , including one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and  electrolyte असंतुलन , और मौत in कुछ मामले  .
The primary  उपचार is मौखिक पुनर्जलीकरण चिकित्सा , typically साथ मौखिक पुनर्जलीकरण समाधान  , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or  करता नहीं provide सुधार तेज़ पर्याप्त , intravenous fluids can  also be used .
Antibacterial drugs are  फायदेमंद in those साथ कठोर बीमारी to shorten  its duration and severity .
Worldwide , it affects 3–5 million  लोगों और कल्याणकारी 100,000–130,000 मौतों  a year .
Cholera  थी एक of the earliest infections to be  studied by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only  प्रकाशित अनोखा by ऑस्कर वाइल्ड , appearing as the सीसे स्टोरी in lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका on 20 जून 1890 , मुद्रित as the  July 1890 issue of this magazine .
The  पत्रिका 's सम्पादक feared the स्टोरी थी अभद्र as सुपुर्द , so वे censored roughly  500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with outrage by  अंग्रेजों reviewers , कुछ of जिसको सुझाया कि वाइल्ड चाहिए be prosecuted on moral grounds , अग्रणी वाइल्ड to बचाव the अनोखा aggressively in अक्षर to the अंग्रेजों  press .
Wilde later revised the story for book publication , making  substantial alterations , हटाना विवादास्पद passages , adding नई अध्याय और सहित an aphoristic preface जिससे  has since become famous in its own right .
The amended version  थी प्रकाशित by वार्ड , ताला और कम्पनी  in April 1891 .
Some scholars believe that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the  संस्करण he originally सुपुर्द to lippincott  's .
the अनोखा tells of a यंग man नामित डोरियन धूसर , the  subject of a painting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes  infatuated साथ उसे , believing उसके सौंदर्य is जिम्मेदार लिये a नई विधि  in his art .
डोरियन meets रब हेनरी wotton , a dost of बेसिल 's , और becomes enthralled  by Lord Henry 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism , Lord Henry suggests the only  बाते लायक pursuing in जीवन हैं सौंदर्य और fulfilment  of the senses .
Realizing that one  दिन उसके सौंदर्य होगा फीका , डोरियन ( whimsically ) expresses a ख्वाहिश to बेचें उसके आत्मा to ensure the  portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of  the प्रभाव प्रत्येक अधिनियम रै upon उसके आत्मा , साथ प्रत्येक सिन प्रदर्शित as a disfigurement  of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered a work of  क्लासिक गोथिक fiction साथ a दमदार faustian थीम .
Sári Gábor ( born 6 February 1917 ) , known as Zsa Zsa  गैबर ( ) , is a हंगेरियाई -born अमरीकी अभिनेत्री जो acted in supporting भूमिकाएँ in फिल्मों  , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
गैबर थी भी  a socialite .
She began her stage career  in वियना at आयु 15 , और थी पहनाया मिस हंगेरियाई  in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after actress  साथ `` यूरोपीय फ्लेयर और स्टाइल '' , साथ a व्यक्तित्व कि `` exuded आकर्षण  and grace '' .
Her first movie role was as supporting  अभिनेत्री in प्यारे to  Look At .
वो बाद acted in we  're Not Married !
and played one of her few  अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in moulin रूज ( 1952 ) , निर्देशित  by John Huston , who described her as a `` creditable '' actress .
Besides her film and  टेलीविज़न दिखावे , वो is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये having नौ पतियों , सहित होटल महारथी कोनराड हिल्टन  and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , ``  मेन have सदा liked me और i have सदा liked मेन  .
But I like a mannish man , a man  जो knows कैसा to बात to और दावत a स्त्री – नहीं बस a man साथ मांसपेशियां  . ''
Bruce Lee (  परंपरागत : 李小龍 ; born ली jun-fan ; 27 नवम्बर 1940 – 20 जुलाई 1973 ) थी a चाइनीज अमरीकी martial कलाकार , कर्ता  , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet Kune  do , ली थी the बेटे of cantonese ओपेरा  star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely  माना by टीकाकारों , आलोचकों , मीडिया और अन्य martial कलाकारों to be एक of the सबसे  influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited with helping to  बदलें the रास्ता एशियाइ यहूद प्रस्तुत in अमरीकी  films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27 November 1940 to parents from  हांग काँग और थी उठाया in कोलून साथ उसके परिवार जबतक  his late teens .
He was introduced to  the फिल्मी उद्योग by उसके पिता और appeared in अनेक films  as a child actor .
Lee moved to the United States at  the आयु of 18 to प्राप्त उसके उच्चतर शिक्षा , और it थी दौरान इस समय  that he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the  परंपरागत हांग काँग martial कला फिल्मी to a नई स्तर of लोकप्रियता और acclaim , sparking a surge of ब्याज in चाइनीज martial  arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced  martial कला और martial कला films in हांग काँग और the  rest of the world .
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) ,  निर्देशित और लिखा by ली ; warner भाइयो ' डालें the ड्रैगन ( 1973 ) और the खेल  of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee  became an iconic फिगर ज्ञात throughout the संसार , विशेषकर  among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art  शैलियाँ , favouring बजाय the उपयोग of तकनीकों इससे विभिन्न स्त्रोत , in the स्पिरिट of उसके निजी martial कला दर्शनशास्त्र , जिससे he उतावले जीत kune do ( the रास्ता of the intercepting  Fist ) .
Lee held dual  नागरिकता of हांग काँग और the संयुक्त  States .
He died in  कोलून टोंग on 20 जुलाई 1973  at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , chronic  airflow limitation ( कैलोरी ) और दीर्घकालिक obstructive respiratory बीमारी ( cord ) , is the occurrence of दीर्घकालिक ब्रोंकाइटिस or emphysema , a जोड़ी of commonly co-existing  diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and from the lungs ,  causing shortness of साँस ( dyspnea  ) .
In  नैदानिक अभ्यास , copd is पारिभाषित by इसके characteristically  low airflow on lung function tests .
In  कंट्रास्ट to दमा , इस limitation is  poorly reversible and usually gets progressively worse over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly from  तम्बाकू धूम्रपान , जिससे triggers an असामान्य जलन जवाब in the फेफड़ों  .
The diagnosis  of copd requires फेफड़ों  function tests .
Important management strategies  हैं धूम्रपान cessation , vaccinations , पुनर्वास , और  drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
Some patients go on to  आवश्यकता long-term ऑक्सीजन चिकित्सा or फेफड़ों  transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as  the छठे अग्रणी कारण of मौत in  1990 .
It is projected to  become the चौथी अग्रणी कारण of मौत विश्वव्यापी by 2030 , due to an बढ़ाएँ in धूम्रपान दरों  and demographic changes in many countries .
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the  u.S. , और the आर्थिक बोझ of copd in the u.S. in 2007 थी $ 42.6 अरब in स्वास्थ्य परवाह  costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March  1945 ) is एक of the सबसे discussed यहूदी पीड़ितों of the holocaust  .
Her  डायरी रै महरूम the आधार  for several plays and films .
Born in the city  of फ्रैंकफर्ट am प्रमुख in वाइमर जर्मनी , वो जिया सबसे of उसके जीवन in or निकट एम्सटर्डम , in the  Netherlands .
Born a German  नेशनल , फ़्रैंक खोया उसके नागरिकता  in 1941 .
She gained  अंतरराष्ट्रीय कीर्ति मरणोपरांत  after her diary was published .
It documents  उसके अनुभवों छुपाना दौरान the जर्मनी occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स  in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933  , the साल the nazis gained कंट्रोल over जर्मनी  .
By the  शुरूआत of 1940 , वे यहूद फंस in एम्सटर्डम by the  Nazi occupation of the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the  यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी increased in जुलाई 1942 , the परिवार गई into छुपाना in the छुपा कक्ष of  Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After two years  , the समूह थी गद्दारी और transported to विशेषज्ञता शिविरों  .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were eventually  transferred to the bergen-belsen विशेषज्ञता शिविर , जहाँ वे died of सन्निपात in  March 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family , returned to Amsterdam after  the युद्ध to ढूँढें कि ऐनी 's डायरी था महरूम saved , और उसके प्रयत्न led to इसके प्रकाशन in  1947 .
It  थी अनूदित इससे इसके असली डच और पहला प्रकाशित  in English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has since been  अनूदित into अनेक भाषाएं  .
The diary , which  थी दिए to ऐनी on उसके 13th जन्मदिवस , क्रॉनिकल्स  her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
कर्ट 's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 ,  1967 – अप्रैल 5 , 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी संगीतकार और कलाकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर , guitarist और प्राथमिक songwriter  of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with  krist novoselic in एबरडीन , वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित it as भाग of the सिएटल म्यूज़िक झाँकी  , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with ``  खुश्बू जैसे टीन स्पिरिट `` इससे इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind ( 1991 )  .
Following the success of  nevermind , निर्वाण थी labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप बैंड '' of पीढी x , और कोबेन hailed as ``  the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and artistic vision  to have महरूम misinterpreted by the पब्लिक , साथ उसके निजी मुद्दे प्रायः विषय to मीडिया ध्यान .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with its  फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम in utero ( 1993  ) .
During the last  सालो of उसके जीवन , कोबेन struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन , बीमारी  and depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the  पेशेवर और lifelong निजी pressures surrounding खुद और उसके बीवी  , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead at his  घर in सिएटल , the शिकार of कया थी officially शासित a आत्महत्या by a self-inflicted  shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances of his death at age 27  have become a टॉपिक of पब्लिक fascination और  debate .
Since their debut ,  निर्वाण , साथ कोबेन as a songwriter , रै बेची over 25 लाख एल्बम in  the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
रेडियल इंजन समय और  cam mechanism .
click लिये पूरा रेज़ोल्यूशन  animation .
रेडियल इंजन of  a biplane
Master rod  ( कतरा ) , स्लेव और balances इससे a two-row , fourteen-cylinder  Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The  रेडियल इंजन is a प्रत्यागमनी प्रकार आतंरिक दहन इंजन विन्यास in जिससे the सिलेंडर पाइंट outward  from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized star when  viewed इससे the सामने , और is पुकारा a `` स्टार इंजन '' (  German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very  commonly प्रयुक्त in वायुयान इंजन पहले टर्बाइन इंजन became  predominant .
The Golden Girls is  an अमरीकी sitcom , निर्मित by सुसान हैरिस , कि originally aired  on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
अभिनीत bea आर्थर , बेट्टी श्वेत , rue mcclanahan और estelle getty , the दिखाएँ centers  on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was  उत्पादित by witt/thomas/harris प्रोडक्शन्स , in संघ साथ touchstone टेलीविज़न , और पॉल  Junger Witt , Tony Thomas , and Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and  जीती अनेक पुरस्कार , सहित the प्राइमटाइम एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया कॉमेडी श्रेणी twice  .
It also  जीती तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन  Television Series – Musical or Comedy .
All four stars each  प्राप्त an एमी पुरस्कार throughout the श्रेणी ' चलाएं और था  multiple nominations .
The series also ranked among the top  टेन highest-rated कार्यक्रम लिये छह आउट of इसके सात  seasons .
Deepwater drilling  is the प्रक्रम of आयल और गैस खोजी और उत्पादन in गहराइयों  of more than 500 feet .
By this definition ,  वहीँ हैं लगभग 600 deepwater कुएं  in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has been  economically infeasible लिये अनेक सालो , लकिन साथ उठती आयल  prices , more companies are investing in this area .
प्रमुख कंपनियाँ working in इस सेक्टर शामिल  Diamond Offshore , TransOcean , and Baker Hughes .
There  हैं मूलरूप दो kinds of मोबाईल deepwater खुदाई  rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be  performed इससे a fixed-position संस्थापना ऐसे as a फ्लोटिंग spar ( मंच ) or  tension-leg platform .
Recent  उद्योग विश्लेषण रै अनुमानित कि the कुल व्यय in the वैश्विक deepwater  infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
“not सब आयल is accessible on जमीन or  in shallow water .
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.” ... Using sonic  उपकरण , आयल कंपनियाँ determine the खुदाई साइट सबसे संभावित to उपज  oil .
Then they use a  मोबाईल offshore खुदाई ईकाई ( मोदू  ) to dig the initial well .
Some units are converted into production rigs , meaning they switch from drilling for  आयल to capturing आयल एकबार it 's मिला  .
Most of the time , the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production  रिग to कैप्चर oil.” ... the मोदू 's जॉब is to ड्रिल bas into the समंदर 's मंजिल to ढूँढें  oil deposits .
The part of the  ड्रिल कि extends नीचे the डेक और through the जल  is called the riser .
The  riser allows लिये खुदाई fluids to मूव between  the floor and the rig .
Engineers lower a drill  स्ट्रिंग -- a श्रेणी of पाइप designed to ड्रिल bas to the आयल जमा  -- through the riser.”
“the विस्तार of deepwater खुदाई is happening despite  accidents in offshore fields ... ”
in 2010 a विशाल विस्फोट occurred हत्या 11 मजदूर और spilling लाखो of  gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
“ ... Despite the risks ,  the deepwater खुदाई ट्रेंड is spreading in the भूमध्यसागरीय  and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of  ऐसे खुदाई , विश्लेषक कह , is continuing  high demand for energy worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face  the ऊँची risks कि आइये साथ deepwater खुदाई in अनुक्रम लिये अमेरिकी to continue to carry  on their everyday lives .
“The Energy  विभाग recently प्रक्षिप्त कि गल्फ आयल उत्पादन होता विस्तार इससे इसके  2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater drilling affects the  पर्यावरण in दोनो ऋणात्मक और धनात्मक तरीके  .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes oil  spills it is स्टिल a hazardous संभावित निष्कर्ष  .
Oil spills result  in आयल डूब to the नीचे of the समंदर smothering  plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive .
on the अन्य हाथ deepwater खुदाई प्रभाव the पर्यावरण  in a positive ways too .
In time once the deepwater oil  खूब is नहीं in उपयोग anymore पौधे होगा grow on और around the खूब बनाना a गुफा or cavern जैसे आश्रय आदर्श  for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see  the गहराइयों of the समंदर मंजिल कि  are hardly ever seen .
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record  फुटेज और लो फ़ोटो of विरल मछली कि हैं in वहीँ प्राकृतिक आवास , giving वैज्ञानिक a dekh at पशु वे rarely  seen” ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an  अमरीकी स्त्री साथ जिसको संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having था an `` improper संबंध '' जबकि वो worked  at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The  affair और इसके परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन  's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra ,  , ( दिसम्बर 12 , 1915 – may 14 , 1998 ) थी an अमरीकी सिंगर  and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found  unprecedented कामयाबी as a सोलो कलाकार इससे the जल्दी to mid-1940s बाद होने हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड in 1943 .
Being the idol  of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released उसके पहला एल्बम , the  Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
His  पेशेवर करियर था stalled by the 1950s , लकिन it थी पुनर्जन्म in 1953  after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for  swingin ' प्रेमियों ! , आइये मक्खी साथ me , तभी the निर्जन और nice  'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , Reprise Records  in 1961 ( ढूंढना कामयाबी साथ एल्बम ऐसे as ring-a-ding-ding ! , सिनात्रा at the sands और फ्रांसिस अल्बर्ट सिनात्रा & अंतोनियो कार्लोस jobim ) , toured internationally  , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including John F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective  सितंबर of my सालो , स्ट्रक्चर in the एमी -winning टेलीविज़न खास फ़्रैंक सिनात्रा : a man और उसके म्यूज़िक , और scored  hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way `` .
With sales of his music  dwindling और बाद appearing in अनेक poorly प्राप्त films , सिनात्रा रिटायर्ड लिये the  first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came  आउट of रिटायरमेंट और in 1973 अंकित अनेक एल्बम , स्कोरिंग a शीर्ष 40 hit साथ  `` ( Theme From ) New York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a  घर आधार , he toured दोनो भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और  internationally , until a short time before his death in 1998 .
Sinatra  भी forged a अत्यधिक कामयाब करियर  as a film actor .
बाद जीतना बेहतरीन supporting कर्ता in 1953 , he भी garnered a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये the man साथ  the Golden Arm , and critical acclaim for his performance in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also starred in  ऐसे musicals as ऊँची समाज , pal जॉय , यारों और  Dolls and On the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy  बीच honors in 1983 और थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता  by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He  थी the प्राप्तकर्ता of ग्यारह ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , सहित the ग्रैमी trustees पुरस्कार ,  Grammy Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra  is भी एक of world’s best-selling कलाकारों of सब समय , having बेची अधिक  than 150 million copies worldwide .
Typical  cornhole  board
Cornhole , also known as bean bag toss ,  मकई टॉस , baggo or बैग , is a लॉन खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी लो turns फेंकना मकई छेद बैग  at a raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in the hole  स्कोर 3 अंक , जबकि एक on the मंच स्कोर  1 point .
Play  continues जबतक a टोली or खिलाड़ी  reaches the score of 21 .
The American Gold  त्रिभुज is an आधिकारिक सुनहरा bullion  coin of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was first  released by the संयुक्त राज्य मिंट in 1986  .
Bikram Yoga is a  प्रणाली of योग कि बिक्रम choudhury synthesized इससे परंपरागत hatha योग तकनीकों और popularized  beginning in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for  90 मिनट्स और consist of the वही श्रेणी of 26 postures  and 2 breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga is ideally  practiced in a रूम heated to 105°f ( ≈ 40.6°c ) साथ a आर्द्रता  of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born  26 जनवरी 1990 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता , हास्य और rapper बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये अभिनीत as माइकल barret in निकलोडियन  television series Zoey 101 .
Massey has received many awards and  नामांकन सहित a यंग कलाकार पुरस्कार और  Emmy Awards nominations .
He is also known for  appearing in अनेक commercials in the जल्दी  2000s .
A  conventional teaspoon बना  of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as  खूब as a ईकाई of मापन of आवाज़ in कुछ देशों और कस्टम  .
A fern is any  एक or अधिक of a समूह of परिचय 12,000 प्रजाति of पौधे belonging to the वनस्पति  group known as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have  जाइलम और फ्लोएम ( बनाना उन्हें vascular पौधे  ) .
They have stems , leaves ,  और जड़ें जैसे अन्य vascular पौधे  .
Ferns reproduce  via बीजाणुओं और have neither बीज nor पुष्प  .
By far the largest  समूह of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , लकिन ferns as पारिभाषित यहाँ ( भी पुकारा monilophytes ) शामिल horsetails  , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term  pteridophyte भी refers to ferns और a few अन्य बीजरहित vascular पौधे ( देखिए वर्गीकरण  section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record  360 लाख सालो पहले in the carboniferous लकिन अनेक of the वर्तमान परिवारों और प्रजाति किया नहीं appear जबतक roughly 145 लाख सालो पहले in the जल्दी  Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but  कुछ हैं grown or gathered लिये खाना , as शोभायमान पौधे , लिये remediating contaminated soils , और have महरूम the विषय of शोध  for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are  significant  weeds .
They  भी खेल a भूमिका in mythology  , medicine , and art .
Flat  roofs in इसराईल
Flat  छत in लॉस एंजिल्स
A flat roof is a  प्रकार of covering लिये a भवन  .
In contrast to the more sloped  रूप of छत , a चपटा छत is आड़ा or  nearly horizontal .
The slope of a roof is properly known as  इसके पिच : roofs जिससे हैं nearly चपटा हैं ज्ञात as low-pitch  roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
Any sheet  of सामग्री प्रयुक्त to कवर a चपटा or low-pitched छत is प्रायः ज्ञात as a झिल्ली और the प्राथमिक purpose  of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs  typically allow the जल to चलाएं बंद इससे a पतला inclination or  camber into a gutter system .
Water from some flat roofs  ऐसे as on गार्डन sheds sometimes बहती freely बंद the किनारे of a छत , हालांकि gutter प्रणालियों हैं of लाभ in keeping  both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on  छोटी roofs प्रायः सीसे जल सीधे onto the मैदान , or बेहतर  , into a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on  larger roofs प्रायः सीसे जल into the  rainwater drainage system of any built up area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to  collect जल in a पूल , प्रायः लिये aesthetic उद्देश्य , or  for rainwater buffering .
चपटा roofs मौजूद सब over the संसार और प्रत्येक क्षेत्रफल रै इसके  own tradition or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and  जमने is असंभावित to occur , अनेक चपटा roofs हैं बस निर्मित of चिनाई or कंक्रीट और इस is शुभ at keeping  out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become saturated by  बरसात और लीक , or जहाँ जल soaked into the brickwork could फ्रीज to बर्फ और यूँ सीसे to 'blowing ' ( तोड़कर up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the विस्तार of बर्फ as it  forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
traditionally सबसे चपटा roofs in the पश्चिमी संसार मेक उपयोग of तारकोल or अधिक प्रायः तारकोल पेपर  applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat , UV rays  और मौसम बंद it और helps protect it इससे cracking or blistering और degradation  .
Roof decking is  प्रायः of प्लाईवुड , chipboard or osb फलक ( osb = उन्मुख strand फलक , भी ज्ञात as स्टर्लिंग फलक  ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats  as a hot द्रव , heated in a तारकोल केतली , or as चादरें of तारकोल impregnated 'paper ' चिपके bas और sealed साथ at joints by  hot tar - once it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is  अनभिज्ञता or कमी of मेंटेनेंस जहाँ लोगों or कार्यक्रम कारण the बजरी to be स्थानांतरित or removed इससे the तारकोल or tarpaper waterproofing , यूँ exposing it to मौसम और सूर्य whereupon cracking और blistering occurs  over time and eventually water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or  fibre सामग्री soaked or impregnated in  tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically  इससे the छत ऐसे as on मुंडेर दीवारें or upstands , tarpaper विसंगतियाँ हैं उत्पादित साथ ठीक बजरी लागू  to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers  vary in विशेषता as करता the कारीगरी और प्रशिक्षण of those applying it  to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and  लागत of लेटा उन्हें , however the लागत of आधुनिक झिल्लियों ऐसे as epdm रै आइये bas over हाल सालो to मेक उन्हें अधिक और अधिक सस्ती  .
There  हैं अभी अधिक firms supplying आधुनिक विकल्प और  there is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability .
If a leak does occur  on a चपटा छत तब क्षति प्रायः goes unnoticed लिये long अवधि of समय दौरान जिससे जल  penetrates and soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it .
This can  सीसे to महंगी क्षति इससे the दुर्गन्ध जिससे प्रायः develops और if बाएँ can  weaken the roof structure .
There are also  विभिन्न स्वास्थ्य risks to लोगों और पशु श्वास  the mould spores : the severity of this health risk remains a debated point .
One problem with  maintaining चपटा roofs is कि if जल करता घुस the अवरोध covering ( be it परंपरागत or  a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy  to देखिए जहाँ it is टपकती in अनुक्रम to मरम्मत  it .
एकबार underlying छत अलंकार is soaked it प्रायः sags causing a further संग्रहण or puddling  of water in that area and the problem worsens .
A  cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क जिससे  contains data .
The name is an acronym which  स्टैंड लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only मेमोरी  `` .
Computers can read  cd-roms , लकिन can नहीं लिखें on उन्हें  .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute  कंप्यूटर तन्त्र , सहित वीडियो खेल और मल्टीमीडिया अनुप्रयोग , हालांकि कोई आंकड़ा can be भंडारित  ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs ,  पुकारा उन्नत cds , थाम दोनो कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और ऑडियो साथ the latter सक्षम of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी  , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The  पीला किताब is the तकनीकी मानक  that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain  the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप , the पीला किताब , निर्मित by सोनी और फिलिप्स , थी the  first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the  स्वरूप to थाम कोई रूप of आंकड़ा  .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen  नाम J. K. रोलिंग , is a अंग्रेजों उपन्यासकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the लेखक of the हैरी कुम्हार  fantasy series .
The Potter books have gained worldwide  ध्यान , जीती अनेक पुरस्कार , और बेची अधिक than 400 लाख  copies .
वे have become the best-selling किताब श्रेणी in इतिहास , और महरूम the आधार  for a series of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had  overall स्वीकृति on the स्क्रिप्ट as खूब as maintaining रचनात्मक कंट्रोल by सेवारत  as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a researcher and  दुभाषिया सचिव लिये माफ़ी अंतरराष्ट्रीय जब वो conceived the विचार लिये the हैरी कुम्हार श्रेणी on a विलम्बित ट्रैन इससे मैनचेस्टर  to London in 1990 .
The  seven-year काल कि followed entailed the मौत of उसके माँ , तलाक इससे उसके पहला husband और गरीबी  until Rowling finished the first novel in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6  sequels—the पिछला , हैरी कुम्हार और the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) —as  well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her agency and resumed  लिखने in the रूप of a tragicomedy अनोखा aimed at वयस्क readership  , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is currently working on two books—one aimed for adults , the other for children  younger than the हैरी कुम्हार दर्शक , और वो expects the latter to be प्रकाशित पहला  .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in  जिससे वो progressed इससे जीना on राज्य लाभ to multi-millionaire  status within five years .
She is the United Kingdom 's  best-selling लेखक चूंकि रिकॉर्ड began , साथ बिक्री in excess of £238m  .
The 2008  संडे टाइम्स समृद्ध सूची अनुमानित रोलिंग 's सौभाग्य at £560 लाख ( $ 798 लाख ) ,  ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , and TIME magazine named her as a  runner-up लिये इसके 2007 व्यक्ति of the साल , noting the सोशल , moral , और राजनैतिक प्रेरणा वो रै दिए उसके प्रशंसक  .
in अक्तूबर 2010 , रोलिंग थी नामित the ``  Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by leading magazine editors .
She has become a notable  लोकसेवक , supporting ऐसे धर्मार्थ as कॉमिक राहत , एक जनक परिवारों , अनेक काठिन्य समाज of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और lumos ( formerly  the Children 's High Level Group ) .
Auburndale is a city in  polk काउंटी , फ्लोरिडा , संयुक्त राज्य .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 11,032 at the 2000  census .
According to  the u.s जनसांख्यिकी estimates of 2005 , the नगर था  a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland  – शीत हेवन महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल  .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen from  कक्षा दौरान expedition 7 of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस  Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding  rainbands , विशेषताएँ of तीव्र cyclones , हैं clearly  visible in this view from space .
a तीव्र चक्रवात is a तूफ़ान प्रणाली characterized by a low-pressure बीच घिरी by a सर्पिल व्यवस्था  of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical  cyclones strengthen जब जल काफूर इससे the समंदर is released as the संतृप्त एयर उदय  , resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air .
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism  than अन्य cyclonic windstorms ऐसे as nor'easters , यूरोपीय windstorms , और ध्रुवीय  lows .
The characteristic that  separates तीव्र cyclones इससे अन्य cyclonic प्रणालियों is कि at कोई ऊँचाई in the माहौल , the बीच of a तीव्र चक्रवात होगा be warmer than इसके परिवेश ; a घटना पुकारा  `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems , which usually form in  तीव्र regions of the ग्लोब , और to उनके गठन in मेरीटाइम तीव्र एयर masses  .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such  तूफ़ान ' cyclonic प्रकृति , साथ counterclockwise हवा प्रवाह in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और clockwise हवा प्रवाह in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध  .
The opposite  दिशा of the हवा प्रवाह is a  result of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its location and strength , a tropical  चक्रवात is referred to by names ऐसे as hurricane ( , ) , तूफ़ान ( ) , तीव्र तूफ़ान , cyclonic तूफ़ान  , tropical depression , and simply cyclone .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful winds  और मूसलाधार बरसात , वे हैं भी समर्थ to उपज ऊँची लहरें  , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They  develop over विशाल लाशें of गरम जल , और खोना उनके शक्ति if वे मूव over जमीन due to increased  surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source .
This is why coastal  regions can प्राप्त significant क्षति इससे a तीव्र चक्रवात , जबकि अंतर्देशीय regions हैं अपेक्षाकृत  safe from receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant  बाढ़ अंतर्देशीय , और तूफ़ान surges can उपज extensive तटीय बाढ़ up to इससे the तटरेखा  .
Although their effects on human  populations can be विनाशकारी , तीव्र cyclones can  relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward  शीतोष्ण latitudes , जिससे makes उन्हें an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the वैश्विक वायुमंडलीय परिसंचरण यांत्रिकी  .
As a result ,  तीव्र cyclones सहायता to maintain संतुलन in the धरती 's क्षोभमण्डल  , and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop when the  वायुमंडलीय शर्तें around a कमजोर disturbance in the माहौल हैं अनुकूल  .
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns  ऐसे as the madden-julian दोलन , el niño-southern दोलन , और the अटलांटिक multidecadal दोलन  .
अन्य रूप जब अन्य प्रकार of cyclones acquire  tropical characteristics .
Tropical systems are  तब स्थानांतरित by परिचालन हवाएँ in the क्षोभमण्डल ; if the शर्तें remain अनुकूल  , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the spectrum , if the conditions around the system  deteriorate or the तीव्र चक्रवात makes landfall , the प्रणाली weakens और  eventually dissipates .
It  is नहीं संभावित to artificially induce the dissipation  of these systems with current technology .
किर्क डगलस ( born issur danielovitch , ; दिसम्बर 9 , 1916 ) is an अमरीकी स्टेज  and film actor , film producer and author .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947  ) , चैंपियन ( 1949 ) , इक्का in the छेद ( 1951 ) , the ख़राब और the खूबसूरत ( 1952 ) , 20,000 लीग अंतर्गत the समुद्र ( 1954 ) , हवस लिये जीवन ( 1956 ) , राहें of महिमा ( 1957 ) , gunfight at the o.k . corral ( 1957 ) , the वाइकिंग्स  ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male American screen  महापुरूष of सब समय , बनाना उसे the highest-ranked जीना व्यक्ति  on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary  पुरस्कार `` लिये 50 सालो as a रचनात्मक और moral फ़ोर्स in the गति चित्र जातियाँ .  ''
He is one of the last surviving actors  इससे हॉलीवुड 's `` सुनहरी आयु  '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 ,  1945 ) is an अमरीकी चट्टान और फेंकें singer-songwriter , guitarist  and pianist .
As a  locally कामयाब detroit-area कलाकार , he performed और अंकित as bob seger  and the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he  था dropped the `` प्रणाली '' इससे उसके रिकार्डिंग और जारी  to strive for broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , with whom he became most successful on the national  स्तर साथ the एल्बम सजीव गोली , अंकित सजीव साथ the चांदी गोली बैंड in 1975 at cobo हॉल in डेट्रॉयट , मिशिगन  .
In 1976 , he achieved a national  ब्रेकआउट साथ the स्टुडियो एल्बम रात्रि  Moves .
On  उसके स्टुडियो एल्बम , he भी worked extensively साथ the alabama-based मांसपेशी  Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy ,  चिल्लाना आवाज़ , seger लिखा और अंकित गीतों कि dealt साथ प्रेम , महिलाओं  , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger has recorded many hits , including ``  रात्रि चालें , '' `` फेरे the पेज , '' `` we 've मिला tonight , '' `` विरूद्ध the हवा , '' और shakedown कि थी लिखा लिये बेवर्ली पहाड़ियाँ cop ii और `` जैसे  a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` Old Time Rock and Roll  `` थी नामित एक of the गीतों  of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning  पाँच दशकों , seger continues to perform  and record today .
seger थी inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in 2004 और the  Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 – April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th  अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974 , जब he became the तभी अध्यक्ष to  resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative  और सीनेटर इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as the 36th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे  1953 to 1961 .
निक्सन थी born in yorba लिंडा  , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and  ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of विधि in 1937 , returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया  to practice law .
He and his wife ,  पैट निक्सन , स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य लिये the संघीय सरकारी  in 1942 .
he subsequently परोसा in the संयुक्त राज्य  Navy during World War II .
Nixon was elected  in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the सीनेट  in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss  मामला स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as a अग्रणी anti-communist  , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of  ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर , the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी अध्यक्षीय  nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon  परोसा लिये आठ सालो as वाइस अध्यक्ष  .
He waged an  unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 1960 , narrowly खोने to जॉन F. कैनेडी , और  lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran  again लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी और थी निर्वाचित  .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's  भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध , he subsequently ended u.S.  involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit  to the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the दो राष्ट्र , और he initiated détente  and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his  प्रशासन generally embraced नीतियों कि transferred शक्ति इससे वॉशिंगटन  to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives  to लड़ो कर्कट और illegal दवाएँ , imposed मजदूरी और दाम नियंत्रण , enforced desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी स्कूलों  , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over  the चंद्र अवतरण शुरूआत साथ अपोलो 11 , he scaled वापस मानवयुक्त स्पेस  exploration .
He was re-elected  by a भूस्खलन in 1972  .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro  agnew , और a continuing श्रेणी of खुलासे परिचय the वाटरगेट कांड और अन्य misconduct by सदस्यों of the प्रशासन  .
The scandal  escalated , costing निक्सन much of उसके राजनैतिक support , और on अगस्त 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the  face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
बाद उसके इस्तीफा , he controversially प्राप्त  a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman ,  authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking अनेक विदेशी यात्राएँ , helped to rehabilitate  his public image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April  18 , 1994 , और died चार दिनों बाद at the आयु  of 81 .
{ { infobox  Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty  caused कड़वा contention between अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट और  Sen. Sumner .
Brady  1869 ]  ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the  conquest of the neighboring ब्लैक गणतंत्र of हैती , became कायल कि भ्रष्टाचार lay पीछे the सन्धि , और कि मेन बंद to the अध्यक्ष  shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations  कमेटी , sen. sumner initially withheld उसके राय on the सन्धि on जनवरी  18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner  था महरूम लीक सूचना इससे सहायक सचिव of राज्य , bancroft डेविस , कि u.s . नवल जहाजों यहूद  being used to protect President Báez .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. Sumner’s  सुझाव और काफी संभवतः to सहेजें the पार्टी इससे an भद्दा लड़ो or the अध्यक्ष इससे शर्मिंदगी , the सीनेट आयोजित इसके बहस  of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session .
President Grant persisted and sent messages to Congress in  एहसान of annexation on कूच 14 , 1870 , और may  31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there  होता be परेशानी साथ the विदेशी नागरिकों , noting the दीर्घकालिक विद्रोह कि took प्लेस on the द्वीप , और the रिस्क कि the स्वतंत्रता  of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a  प्रोटेक्टोरेट थी a उल्लंघन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870  the सन्धि थी voted on by the सीनेट और विफल to लाभ the जरूरी  2/3 majority for treaty passage .
The following day , President Grant ,  अहसास गद्दारी by sen. sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of sumner’s बंद dost J. lothrop motley , दूत  to Britain .
By autumn  , sumner 's निजी दुश्मनी to the अध्यक्ष थी पब्लिक ज्ञान , और he blamed the सचिव of राज्य लिये failing to have  resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men , friends  जबतक तब , cooled into कड़वा  enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow , Sumner gave a fiercely  नाजुक वाक accusing the अध्यक्ष of usurpation और babcock of unethical conduct  .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State  हैमिल्टन मछली , था initiated a अभियान to depose sumner इससे the  chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to  having रोका ग्रान्ट 's डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र सन्धि attempt , sumner था पराजित ग्रान्ट 's पूरा repeal of the कार्यकाल of दफ्तर अधिनियम , अवरोधित ग्रान्ट 's नामांकन of सिकंदर स्टीवर्ट to u.S. सचिव of राजकोष , और  been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant  resented sumner 's बड़प्पन of manner  , as well .
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible , the  अध्यक्ष is supposed to have कहा कि he थी नहीं चकित : `` he किया  n't write it . ''
As the  दरार between ग्रान्ट और sumner increased ,  Sumner’s health began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators affiliated with President Grant , known  as ‘’new radicals’’ voted to oust sen. sumner इससे the सीनेट विदेशी संबंध कमेटी अध्यक्षता  .
कारोबार आचार ( भी कॉरपोरेट आचार ) is a रूप of लागू आचार or पेशेवर आचार  that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to  सब पहलुओं of कारोबार conduct और is प्रासंगिक to the conduct of individuals  and entire organizations .
कारोबार आचार रै दोनो normative और वर्णनात्मक  dimensions .
As a  कॉरपोरेट अभ्यास और a करियर specialization , the फ़ील्ड is primarily  normative .
Academics  attempting to समझे कारोबार बर्ताव employ  descriptive methods .
The  दायरा और मात्रा of कारोबार नैतिक मुद्दे reflects  the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns .
ब्याज in कारोबार आचार त्वरित dramatically दौरान the 1980s और 1990s , दोनो  within major corporations and within academia .
For example , today most major corporations promote their commitment to non-economic values under  headings ऐसे as आचार कोड और सोशल जिम्मेदारी charters .
Adam Smith said , ``  लोगों of the वही व्यापार seldom मिलें साथ , भी लिये merriment और diversion , लकिन the वार्तालाप ends in a षड्यंत्र विरूद्ध the पब्लिक , or in कुछ contrivance  to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior  in कया वे perceive to be फायदेमंद दिशानिर्देश .
Ethics implicitly regulates  क्षेत्रों और विवरण of बर्ताव कि झूठ परे  governmental control .
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the  समुदायों in जिससे वे operate त्वरित the विकास of औपचारिक आचार  regimes .
A burn is a type of  चोट to flesh or स्किन caused by ऊष्मा , विद्युत , रसायन  , friction , or radiation .
सबसे burns affect तभी the सतही स्किन ( ज्ञात as सतही or पहला उपाधि ) or extend into the deeper स्किन लकिन do नहीं  involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper  ऊतकों , ऐसे as मांसपेशी or अस्थि can be घायल in जिससे मामला the बर्न is either पूरा मोटाई  ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The treatment  जरूरी depends on the गंभीरता  of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe  प्रबंधित साथ छोटी अधिक than सरल पीड़ा हत्यारे जबकि प्रमुख burns may आवश्यकता prolonged उपचार in specialized  burn centers .
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if  एक्सपोज़र is prolonged it may परिणाम in कम देह तापमान  .
Partial thickness  burns may आवश्यकता सफ़ाई साथ साबुन और जल followed  by dressings .
फफोले चाहिए typically  be left unbroken .
Full thickness burns usually  आवश्यकता सर्जिकल उपचार ऐसे as स्किन कलम और extensive burns प्रायः आवश्यकता विशाल राशि of intravenous  fluids .
the सबसे आम जटिलताओं of burns हैं  related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , modern  उपचार विकसित in the पिछला 50 सालो have significantly improved the outcomes , विशेषकर in children  and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people seek medical  उपचार और 300,000 लोगों die इससे  burns .
In the United States , of those  admitted to a बर्न बीच , लगभग 4 %  die from their injuries .
The long term  निष्कर्ष is primarily सम्बन्धित to the आकार of बर्न और the आयु of  the person effected .
The Atlantic Ocean , not  सहित आर्कटिक और अंटार्कटिक regions
This video was taken by the crew of  expedition 29 on फलक the iss  .
The pass starts from  बस north-east of the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड over the उत्तर  Atlantic Ocean to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the  second-largest of the संसार 's oceanic विभाजन  .
With a  कुल क्षेत्रफल of परिचय , it कवर लगभग 20 प्रतिशत of the धरती 's सतह  and about 29 percent of its water surface area .
The  पहला भाग of इसके नाम refers to एटलस of यूनानी mythology  , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of  `` अटलांटिक '' is in the histories of हिरोडोटस around 450 bc ( hdt . 1.202.4 ) : अटलांटिस थलैसा ( यूनानी : ἀτλαντὶς  θάλασσα ; English : Sea of Atlas ) .
The term Ethiopic Ocean ,  निकला इससे इथियोपिया , थी लागू to the दक्षिणी अटलांटिक as  late as the mid-19th century .
Before  europeans खोजा अन्य महासागर , the पद `` समंदर '' itself थी synonymous साथ the waters परे the जलसन्धि of जिब्राल्टर  that we now know as the Atlantic .
The early  यूनानियों believed इस समंदर to be a gigantic नदी encircling  the world .
The  अटलांटिक समंदर occupies an elongated , s-shaped जलाशय extending longitudinally  between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a  समुद्र of the अटलांटिक ) , to the प्रशांत समंदर in the दक्षिणपश्चिम , the भारतीय समंदर in the southeast  , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other  परिभाषाएं describe the अटलांटिक  as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator  subdivides it into the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर और  South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the  need लिये a अद्वितीय पहचानकर्ता in issuing forecasts और चेतावनियाँ , तीव्र cyclones और उपोष्ण cyclones हैं दिए names  according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these  तीव्र और उपोष्ण चक्रवात names हैं निकला  .
White light is dispersed by a  प्रिज़्म into the रंगों of the ऑप्टिकल  spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम कि is दृश्य to ( can be detected  by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation  in इस दायरा of wavelengths is पुकारा दृश्य लाइट  or simply light .
A typical  इंसान नजर होगा respond to wavelengths  from about 390 to 700 nm .
In terms  of आवृत्ति , इस corresponds to a बैंड  in the vicinity of 430–790 THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the  ग्रीन प्रदेश of the ऑप्टिकल वर्णक्रम ( देखिए : दीप्ति  function ) .
The spectrum does not  , however , contain सब the रंगों कि the इंसान आँखें  and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated  रंगों ऐसे as गुलाबी , or जामुनी विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as magenta , हैं अनुपस्थित , लिये उदाहरण  , because they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors  containing तभी एक wavelength हैं भी पुकारा pure रंगों  .
Visible wavelengths pass  through the `` ऑप्टिकल खिड़की `` , the प्रदेश of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम  which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An example of this phenomenon is that  साफ एयर scatters ब्लू लाइट अधिक than रेड wavelengths , और so the  midday sky appears blue .
The optical window is also  पुकारा the दृश्य खिड़की क्युकी it overlaps the इंसान दृश्य  response spectrum .
The near infrared  ( nir ) खिड़की झूठ बस आउट of the इंसान दृष्टि , as खूब as the मीडियम wavelength ir ( mwir ) खिड़की और  the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many  प्रजाति can देखिए लाइट साथ बारंबारता बाहर the `` दृश्य वर्णक्रम  , '' which is defined in terms of human vision .
Bees and many other  कीट can detect पराबैंगनी लाइट , जिससे helps  them find nectar in flowers .
Plant species that depend on  कीट परागण may owe reproductive कामयाबी to उनके रूप in पराबैंगनी  light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ) ,  और कुछ have sex-dependent markings on उनके plumage कि हैं  visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many  पशु कि can देखिए into the पराबैंगनी दायरा , however , can  not see red light or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees '  दृश्य वर्णक्रम ends at परिचय 590nm , बस पहले the नारंगी  wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can see some  रेड wavelengths , लकिन नहीं as अनेक as  humans .
zebras ( or ) हैं अनेक प्रजाति of अफ़्रीकी equids ( घोड़ा परिवार  ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their stripes come  in अलग पैटर्न , अद्वितीय to प्रत्येक  individual .
They are generally social  पशु कि सजीव in छोटी harems to विशाल  herds .
Unlike  उनके closest रिश्तेदारों , घोड़े और asses , zebras  have never been truly domesticated .
There are three species of  zebras : the मैदान जेब्रा , the grévy 's  zebra and the mountain zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra  belong to the subgenus hippotigris , लकिन grévy 's जेब्रा is the एकमात्र प्रजाति  of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely  सम्बन्धित , जबकि the पूर्व दो हैं अधिक horse-like  .
All three belong to  the genus equus , साथ साथ अन्य जीना  equids .
The unique stripes of  zebras मेक उन्हें एक of the पशु सबसे परिचित  to people .
They  occur in a किस्में of habitats , ऐसे as grasslands , savannas , वुडलैंड्स  , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
However , various anthropogenic factors have had  a कठोर प्रभाव on जेब्रा populations , in particular शिकार लिये खालें और आवास विनाश  .
grévy 's जेब्रा और the पहाड़ जेब्रा  are endangered .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century – though there is currently a  योजना , पुकारा the quagga प्रोजेक्ट , कि aims to नस्ल zebras कि हैं phenotypically समान to the quagga in a प्रक्रम पुकारा प्रजनन  back .
Barry White , born  बैरी यूजीन कार्टर ( – ) , थी an अमरीकी composer और  singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , White 's greatest success came in the  1970s as a सोलो सिंगर और साथ the प्रेम असीमित ऑर्केस्ट्रा , crafting अनेक enduring आत्मा , दुर्गंध , और डिस्को  songs such as his two biggest hits , `` You 're the First , the Last , My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love , Babe . ''
Along with  इसहाक़ हेज़ , श्वेत is माना by allmusic.com as a पायोनियर of डिस्को  music in the early 1970s .
During  the कोर्स of उसके करियर in the म्यूज़िक कारोबार , श्वेत हासिल 106 सुनहरा एल्बम विश्वव्यापी , 41 of जिससे  also attained platinum status .
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in  excess of 100 लाख , according to आलोचकों ed होगन और  Wade Kergan .
His influences included Rev .  जेम्स क्लीवलैंड , रे चार्ल्स , एरीथा फ्रैंकलिन प्लस motown कलाकारों the supremes  , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ;  जून 4 , 1975 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , फिल्मी निदेशक , और screenwriter  .
She has received an Academy Award , two  स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार , और तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार , और थी नामित हॉलीवुड  's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie  promotes humanitarian कल्याणकारी , और is विख्यात लिये उसके कार्य साथ शरणार्थियों as a खास envoy और पूर्व साख  Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as  the संसार 's `` सबसे खूबसूरत '' स्त्री , a शीर्षक लिये जिससे वो रै प्राप्त  substantial media attention .
जोली बना उसके स्क्रीन डेब्यू as a चाइल्ड alongside उसके पिता jon वोइट in lookin ' to मिलेंगी आउट ( 1982 ) ,  but her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her  पहला अग्रणी भूमिका in a प्रमुख फिल्मी थी in the cyber-thriller  Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George  वालेस ( 1997 ) और gia ( 1998 ) , और जीती an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन  in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game  नायिका लारा क्रॉफ्ट in लारा क्रॉफ्ट : मकबरा रेडर ( 2001 ) , और स्थापित herself among the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in हॉलीवुड  with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. &  mrs. स्मिथ ( 2005 ) और चाही ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated वाणिज्यिक सफलताओं to date—and प्राप्त further नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the dramas a mighty  Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie made her directorial debut with  the wartime नाटक in the जमीन of रक्त और  Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee  मिलर और बिली bob थॉर्नटन , जोली अभी जीवनदान साथ कर्ता ब्रैड pitt  , in a relationship notable for fervent media attention .
Jolie and Pitt have three  biological children और तीन अपनाया  children .
A natural  मेहराब उत्पादित by the अपरदन of differentially  weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and  चट्टान हैं removed इससे the धरती 's सतह by exogenetic प्रक्रियाओं ऐसे as हवा or जल प्रवाह , और तब transported और deposited  in other locations .
While erosion is a natural process  , इंसान क्रियाएँ have increased by 10-40 टाइम्स the रेट at जिससे  erosion is occurring globally .
excessive अपरदन कल्याणकारी समस्याएं ऐसे as मरुस्थलीकरण , decreases in agricultural उत्पादकता due to जमीन degradation , sedimentation of जलमार्गों , और ecological पतन  due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined , they are responsible for 84 %  of degraded acreage , बनाना excessive अपरदन एक of the सबसे significant वैश्विक पर्यावरणीय  problems .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads ,  anthropogenic जलवायु बदलें और शहरी sprawl हैं amongst the सबसे significant इंसान क्रियाएँ in लिहाज़ to उनके प्रभाव on stimulating अपरदन  .
However , there are many available alternative land use  practices कि can काटना or सीमा अपरदन , ऐसे as छत -building , no-till कृषि , और revegetation of  denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an  अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी जिससे भागा on एमटीवी इससे दिसम्बर 3 , 2009 to दिसम्बर 20 , 2012 in the संयुक्त  States .
The series follows the lives of eight housemates  बिता उनके गर्मियाँ at the जर्सी shore in the u.S. राज्य of  New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the  डाल escaping the ठंडा पूर्वोत्तर शीत to मियामी बीच , साथ ऋतु 3 returning  to the Jersey Shore .
The  चौथी ऋतु , फिल्माया in इटली  , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The show  लौटे लिये a पांचवां ऋतु , at seaside हाइट्स on जनवरी  5 , 2012 .
The  पांचवां ऋतु finale aired on कूच  15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 , MTV confirmed that  the श्रेणी होता वापसी लिये उनके छठे ऋतु  .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV announced that the series  होगा समाप्त बाद the छठे ऋतु , जिससे premiered on  October 4 .
The  श्रेणी finale aired on दिसम्बर  20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy  regarding the उपयोग of the शब्द `` guido / guidette , '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes , और scrutiny इससे स्थानीय क्युकी the डाल सदस्यों यहूद  not residents of the area .
The series  garnered रिकार्ड दरजा लिये एमटीवी , बनाना it the संजाल  's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series ' cast have also  महरूम credited साथ introducing अद्वितीय lexicon और वाक्यांश  into American popular culture .
The University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma  हैं among the शैक्षणिक संस्थानों कि have था वर्ग or सम्मेलनों परिचय the दिखाएँ  .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey  shore थी नामित on बारबरा walters ' 10 सबसे fascinating लोगों सूची , और the श्रेणी रै चूंकि महरूम  exported to dozens of countries worldwide .
There are several remakes of  the दिखाएँ in अन्य देशों , साथ दो नियत in the संयुक्त किंगडम ; the खूब ज्ञात geordie shore  , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England .
the अन्य is the घाटियों , the वेल्श समतुल्य  , which is filmed and set in Cardiff .
The  तभी अन्य आधिकारिक रीमेक of the दिखाएँ is gandía shore  , set in Gandía , Spain .
सही
United States territory is any  extent of प्रदेश अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य , सहित सब waters ( around आइलैंड्स  or continental tracts ) and all U.S . Naval vessels .
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the  sovereign अधिकारों लिये exploring , exploiting , conserving  , and managing its territory .
This  extent of territory is सब the क्षेत्रफल belonging to , और अंतर्गत the डोमिनियन of , the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी ( जिससे शामिल tracts lying at a अलहदा  from the country ) for administrative and other purposes .
The  संयुक्त राज्य कुल territory शामिल a उपसमुच्चय  of political divisions .
The U.S. government is a government  साथ प्रतिनिधित्व शक्तियां अंतर्गत the  United States Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the  संयुक्त राज्य by the संविधान , nor निषिद्ध by it to the राज्य , हैं सुरक्षित to the राज्य क्रमशः  , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly  abbreviated as t3 ) is a 2003 विज्ञान fiction कार्रवाई फिल्मी निर्देशित by जोनाथन mostow और अभिनीत अर्नाल्ड श्वार्ज़नेगर  , Nick Stahl , Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the  दूसरी sequel to the टर्मिनेटर  ( 1984 ) .
After  स्काईनेट fails to मार सारा connor पहले उसके बेटे is born और to मार जॉन खुद as a चाइल्ड , it भेजना वापस another  Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This includes John 's future wife ,  लकिन नहीं जॉन खुद as उसके whereabouts  are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is  लगाई in खतरे जब the  T-X accidentally finds him .
A  cord of लकडी
The cord is a unit of measure of dry  आवाज़ प्रयुक्त in कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य to माप ईधन  and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of wood that , when ``  क्रमित और खूब stowed '' ( arranged so टुकड़े हैं लकीर , समानांतर , छु और कॉम्पैक्ट ) , occupies  a volume of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high , long ,  और गहन ; or कोई अन्य व्यवस्था of रैखिक माप कि yields the वही  volume .
the नाम cord संभवतः आता इससे  the use of a cord or string to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit  हैंडहेल्ड वीडियो खेल यंत्र विकसित  and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was  released in जापानी on , in उत्तर अमेरिका in , और in यूरोपीय  on .
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy  लकीर , और थी निर्मित by gunpei yokoi और निन्टेंडो शोध & विकास 1 —the वही स्टाफ जो था designed the खेल &  Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned  संस्करण यहूद released in 1996 और 1998 , in the रूप  of Game Boy Pocket , and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch series  introduced in , और it संयुक्त सुविधाएँ इससे दोनो the निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली और  Game & Watch .
It was  originally bundled साथ  the puzzle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game Boy competed with the Sega Game  गियर , atari लिंक्स , और the turboexpress  .
Despite these  अन्य technologically श्रेष्ठ हैंडहेल्ड consoles , the  Game Boy was a tremendous success .
the खेल लड़के और इसके successor , the खेल लड़के रंग , have  both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its  रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य , it बेची इसके संपूर्ण शिपमेंट  of one million units within weeks .
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings  अंतर्गत निर्माण in निम्नतर मैनहटन , नई यॉर्क नगर , संयुक्त राज्य , replacing an पहले जटिल of सात इमारतें  with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured  लैंडमार्क जुड़वा मीनारें , जिससे खोली on अप्रैल 4 , 1973 और यहूद नष्ट in the सितंबर 11 हमले of 2001 , साथ साथ  7 World Trade Center .
The other  इमारतें in the जटिल यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त in the हमले , और उनके  ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being  rebuilt साथ पाँच नई skyscrapers और a मेमोरियल  to those killed in the attacks .
, only  एक skyscraper रै महरूम समाप्त ; the अन्य चार हैं अपेक्षित  to be completed before 2020 .
One  संसार व्यापार बीच होगा be the सीसे भवन लिये the  new complex , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New York  नगर on अप्रैल 30 , 2012 , और is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त  by 2013 .
A  छठे मीनार is प्रतीक्षारत पुष्टि  .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2  संसार व्यापार बीच ( the दक्षिण मीनार ) , ज्ञात collectively as the `` जुड़वा मीनारें '' , यहूद the tallest इमारतें in the संसार  .
the अन्य इमारतें शामिल 3 wtc ( the मैरियट संसार  Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
All of these buildings  यहूद निर्मित between 1975 और 1985  .
The cost for the  निर्माण थी $ 400 लाख ( $ in डॉलर  ) .
The complex was located in the heart of  नई यॉर्क नगर 's शहर वित्तीय ज़िला और contained 13.4 लाख वर्गाकार  feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The  संसार व्यापार बीच अनुभवी a आग on  , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade  बीच , पट्टे the इमारतें to a निजी कम्पनी to मैनेज , और awarded the पट्टे to silverstein गुण  in .
On the  morning of सितंबर 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda -संबद्धd hijackers उड़ाया दो बोइंग 767 jets  into the complex , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the  उत्तर मीनार ( 1 ) , साथ the हमले on the संसार व्यापार बीच  resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris  इससे the मीनारें , संयुक्त साथ फ़ायर कि the मलबा initiated in अनेक surrounding इमारतें , led to the आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब the अन्य इमारतें in the जटिल  and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The process of  क्लीनअप और रिकवरी at the संसार व्यापार बीच  site took eight months .
Over the following  सालो , योजनाएँ लिये a rebuilt संसार व्यापार बीच  took form .
The first new building at the site was 7 World  व्यापार बीच , जिससे खोली in  .
The Lower Manhattan Development  निगम ( lmdc ) , स्थापित in to oversee the पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम , व्यवस्थित प्रतियोगिताओं to चुनें  a site plan and memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by Daniel Libeskind ,  थी चयनित as the निपुण योजना , लकिन इस गई through substantial परिवर्तन in डिज़ाइन  .
The new World Trade Center complex will include One  संसार व्यापार बीच , तीन अन्य high-rise दफ्तर मीनारें , और the नेशनल  September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San  जिबरील kyu
San Bernardino  kyu , साथ mt . सैन gorgonio in the अग्रभूमि और बिग भालू झील  in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are  a समूह of पहाड़ सीमाएँ of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया , in the प्रशांत coast सीमाएँ physiographic  region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the California Coast  सीमाएँ और झूठ between सांता बारबरा और सैन डिएगो  counties .
They derive the name Transverse  सीमाएँ due to उनके east-west अभिविन्यास , बनाना उन्हें अनुप्रस्थ to the सामान्य north-south अभिविन्यास  of most of California 's coastal mountains .
Periodic  तालिका साथ इलेक्ट्रॉन शेल
An electron shell may be  विचार of as an कक्षा followed by electrons  around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the  केंद्रक is पुकारा the `` 1 शेल '' ( भी पुकारा `` k शेल '' ) , followed by the `` 2 शेल '' ( or `` l शेल '' ) , तब the `` 3 शेल '' ( or ``  M shell '' ) , and so on farther and farther from the nucleus .
The shell letters  k , l , m , ... , प्रयुक्त in the x-ray  notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can hold up to two  electrons , the 2nd शेल can थाम up to आठ electrons , the 3rd शेल can थाम up to 18 , और 4th शेल can थाम up to 32  and so on .
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons will  generally occupy बाहरी शेल तभी if the अधिक भीतरी शेल have already महरूम completely भर by अन्य  electrons .
however , इस is नहीं a सख्त आवश्यकता : अणु may  have two or even three incomplete outer shells .
( See Madelung  नियम लिये अधिक विवरण  . )
For an explanation of why electrons  मौजूद in ये शेल देखिए इलेक्ट्रॉन विन्यास  .
The  electrons in the outermost occupied शेल ( or शेल )  determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or  अधिक subshells , और प्रत्येक subshell consists of एक or अधिक परमाणु orbitals  .
vickie lynn मार्शल ( née होगन ; नवम्बर 28 , 1967 – फ़रवरी 8 , 2007 ) , ज्ञात by उसके moniker anna निकोल स्मिथ , थी an  American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy  , बनने the 1993 संगिनी of the साल .
She modeled for  कपडे कंपनियाँ , सहित अंदाज़ा जीन्स और लेन  Bryant .
Smith  dropped आउट of ऊँची स्कूल और थी  married in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul ,  J. हावर्ड मार्शल , 62 सालो उसके वरिष्ठ , resulted in अटकलें कि वो शादीशुदा  the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
Following Marshall 's death ,  स्मिथ began a lengthy विधिक बैटल over a  share of his estate .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a  सवाल of संघीय क्षेत्राधिकार , और again on a सवाल of दिवालियापन अदालत प्राधिकार (  now called Stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel  रूम as a परिणाम of an overdose of नुस्खा  drugs .
Within the final six months of her life , Smith was the focus of a  नवीनीकृत दबायें कवरेज surrounding the मौत of उसके बेटे , डेनियल , और the paternity और कस्टडी बैटल over उसके नवजात बेटी , dannielynn  .
the is एक denomination of  Japanese yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959  using जापानी वर्ण ज्ञात as the `` नई स्क्रिप्ट `` , और यहूद भी minted  from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 (  जब , due to the much उच्चतर मान of the येन  , they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water , with `` five yen '' written in kanji ;  the वापस is stamped साथ `` जापानी '' और the साल of समस्या , भी  in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic  तत्व of the सिक्का represent कृषि और fisheries , the कुंजी तत्व  of the Japanese first-sector economy .
around a छेद , वहीँ is a गियर  that represents industry .
It is the  तभी जापानी सिक्का in परिसंचरण to कमी अरबी numerals  on either face .
TLC is an American  लड़की समूह जिनकी रंगमंडल spanned r & b , हिप हॉप , आत्मा  , funk , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer  rozonda `` chilli '' थामस , the समूह मिला unprecedented कामयाबी in the 1990s जबकि भी enduring a श्रेणी of spats साथ the विधि , प्रत्येक अन्य , और the समूह 's रिकार्ड  label .
initially , tlc हासिल वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी following the रिलीज  of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC Tip ,  जिससे बेची 6 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी  .
However , it was their  दूसरी एल्बम , crazysexycool , कि catapulted the समूह to superstar  status .
CrazySexyCool  गई on to be certified डायमंड by the riaa — a पहला लिये  a female group , and eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five years later , the group  released उनके तीसरा एल्बम fanmail , जिससे became the समूह 's पहला एल्बम to डेब्यू at क्रमांक  one and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The  subsequent दौरे following fanmails रिलीज became the उच्चतम  grossing tour of all time by a female band .
In 2002 , Lisa ``  बाएँ नजर '' lopes died in a car दुर्घटना  in Honduras .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D ,  जिससे बेची 2 लाख नक़ल विश्वव्यापी , it प्रदर्शित unreleased vocals इससे  Left Eye .
बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका क्रमित tlc as एक of the  greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003  , the बैंड संचित टेन शीर्ष टेन singles , चार क्रमांक एक singles , चार multi-platinum  albums , and four Grammy Awards .
At the end of 1999 ,  tlc थी क्रमित as the सातवाँ सबसे  successful act of the 1990s by Billboard .
in 2008 , the समूह थी inducted into the सब समय hot 100  Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
कि साल it थी भी सूचीबद्ध as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop  artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million records worldwide and they are ranked as  the दूसरी बेहतरीन selling मादा समूह of सब समय , और the बेहतरीन selling  female R & B group of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in  म्यूज़िक , होने क्रमित the क्रमांक एक सब लड़की समूह on कि  list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure  फिल्मी उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी विशेषता एनिमेशन और  distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated  क्लासिक , it is आधारित on the स्टोरी टार्ज़न of the apes by एडगर राइस बरोज , और is the तभी प्रमुख  motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima  साथ a पटकथा by tab मर्फी , bob tzudiker , और नोनी श्वेत , टार्ज़न सुविधाएँ the आवाज़ें of टोनी goldwyn , minnie ड्राइवर , ग्लेन बंद , और रोजी o'donnell  with Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was  the पिछला bona fide hit पहले the डिज़्नी slump of the जल्दी 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically और $ 448,191,819  worldwide , outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive  एनिमेटेड फिल्मी कभी बना , जबतक अव्वल by डिज़्नी 's अपना $ 140 लाख खजाना  Planet in 2002 .
It  थी भी the पहला डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता to खोलें at # 1  since Pocahontas .
This was the last major box  दफ्तर कामयाबी of the डिज़्नी पुनर्जागरण  .
आयल मंच p-51 बंद the ब्राज़ीलियाई coast  is a semi-submersible platform .
Oil  मंच mittelplate in  the North sea
An oil  मंच , ( offshore मंच or colloquially आयल रिग ) is a विशाल ढांचा साथ सुविधाएं to ड्रिल कुएं , to निकालें और प्रक्रम आयल और प्राकृतिक गैस , और to temporarily  store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many  मामले , the मंच contains सुविधाएं to हाउस the  workforce as well .
depending on the हालातों , the मंच may be फिक्स्ड to the समंदर मंजिल  , may consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote subsea wells  may भी be कनेक्ट to a मंच by प्रवाह  lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea  समाधान may consist of एक or अधिक subsea कुएं , or of एक or अधिक manifold  centres for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the killing of  पशु , प्रायः कि of घरेलू पशुधन  for food .
The animals  सबसे commonly slaughtered लिये खाना हैं चौपायों , जल भैंस ( लिये बीफ और वील ) , शीप , बकरियों ( लिये मेमने और मटन ) , सूअर ( लिये पोर्क ) , घोड़े ( लिये घोड़ा मांस ) , और fowl , largely मुर्गियों  , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The  श्वेत हाउस , the अध्यक्ष 's आधिकारिक निवास और बीच  of the administration
Under the United States Constitution , the President of the  संयुक्त राज्य is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
As chief of the executive  शाखा और सिर of the संघीय सरकारी as a पूरे , the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक  office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The  अध्यक्ष is भी the commander-in-chief of the  United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of  प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the चुनावी कॉलेज असफल to पुरस्कार an निरपेक्ष बहुमत of मत to कोई व्यक्ति  ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United  राज्य संविधान in 1951 , no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक than twice , और no एक जो रै परोसा अधिक than दो सालो of a पद to जिससे किसी else थी  elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the  मौत , इस्तीफा , or हटाना इससे दफ्तर of an लाज़िम  President , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at  तनिक 35 सालो of आयु और a `` प्राकृतिक  born '' citizen of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the  अनुसमर्थन of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , जिससे took प्रभाव on कूच 4 , 1789  .
For American leaders before this  अनुसमर्थन , देखिए अध्यक्ष of the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस  .
The list does not include any  एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the twenty-fifth amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies ,  as ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें और is गिने क्रमबद्धता as दोनो  the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor  , वारेन G. हार्डिंग , और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ) , चार यहूद assassinated ( अब्राहम lincoln , जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड , विलियम mckinley , और जॉन F. कैनेडी ) और एक resigned ( रिचर्ड निक्सन  ) .
George Washington , the first  अध्यक्ष , थी उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote of the  Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest  समय in दफ्तर साथ 32 दिनों in 1841 , और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ  over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional  amendment , affecting राष्ट्रपतियों बाद हैरी ट्रूमैन , थी passed to सीमा the क्रमांक of टाइम्स  an individual can be elected president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , was  the पहला to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब वर्ग in 1828 बाद सबसे कानून barring non-land-owners  from voting were repealed .
वारेन हार्डिंग थी the पहला निर्वाचित बाद महिलाओं gained  voting rights in 1920 .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams ,  रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़ , बेंजामिन हैरिसन और जार्ज W. बुश – जो खोया the  popular vote but assumed office .
John F.  कैनेडी रै महरूम the तभी अध्यक्ष of रोमन कैथोलिक आस्था , और the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष  , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to  नीचे : an uzi , an ar-15 , a heckler & koch खासियत रणनीतिक , a beretta 92fs , और a sig मच्छर  .
bolt कार्रवाई rimfire  rifle with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle  साथ संलग्न suppressor  .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator , is a device attached to or part of  the बैरल of a firearm जिससे reduces the राशि of रव , और प्रायः the राशि of muzzle फ्लैश , उत्पन्न by फायरिंग  the weapon .
A suppressor can be  प्रयुक्त दोनो साथ a firearm और साथ  compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term  is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the ध्वनि of a प्रक्षेप्य , विशेषकर  one moving faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater  than 300 मीटर ) can lessen , or retard , the रपट at the पल of प्रभाव , और बनाएँ the छाप of खामोशी निकट  the target .
The noise heard near the muzzle  as a प्रक्षेप्य पत्ते the बैरल , हालांकि subdued  , is not silent at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce  the ध्वनि of फायरिंग by slowing the escaping propellant गैस और sometimes by  reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors  यहूद निर्मित around the शुरूआत of the  20th century by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim , Hiram Percy 's father , and the inventor  of the कहावत यंत्र गन ) , is credited साथ inventing और selling the पहला commercially कामयाब मॉडल circa 1902  ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave  उसके यंत्र the trademarked नाम  Maxim Silencer .
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the early 20th century ,  using अनेक of the वही तकनीकों to provide quieter-running इंजन ( in अनेक यूरोपीय देशों ऑटोमोबाइल mufflers हैं स्टिल  called silencers ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use , although it has since  गिरे आउट of एहसान साथ कुछ , विशेषकर among the firearms उद्योग , होने replaced साथ the अधिक वस्तुतः सटीक पद ध्वनि suppressor or बस suppressor , क्युकी a `` ध्वनि suppressor '' करता नहीं `` खामोशी '' कोई हथियार , बल्कि it  eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S.  विधान भाषा एहसान the historically  earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms ``  firearm मफलर '' और `` firearm silencer  '' are synonymous .
suppressors यहूद regularly प्रयुक्त by एजेंटों of the संयुक्त राज्य दफ्तर of रणनीतिक  Services , who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II .
OSS Director William Joseph `` Wild  विधेयक '' डोनोवन demonstrated the पिस्टल लिये अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS research chief Stanley Lovell , Donovan ( an old  और विश्वसनीय dost of the अध्यक्ष ) थी लहराया into the ओवल दफ्तर , जहाँ रूज़वेल्ट थी dictating  a letter .
While Roosevelt finished  उसके संदेश , डोनोवन turned उसके वापस और fired टेन गोलियाँ into a sandbag he था brought  with him , announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was  भी प्रयुक्त by the अमरीकी oss on clandestine परिचालन in नाजी occupied यूरोपीय दौरान the दूसरी संसार  War .
beatrice `` bea '' आर्थर ( may 13 , 1922 – अप्रैल 25 , 2009 ) थी an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as the  अक्षर maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms सब in the परिवार और maude , और as डोरोथी zbornak on the 1980s  sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
A stage actress both before and after her television success , she won the Tony  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शित अभिनेत्री in a musical लिये उसके प्रदर्शन as वीरा चार्ल्स in the असली डाल of  Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011  जापानी 3d computer-animated फिल्मी आधारित on the tekken वीडियो खेल श्रेणी , उत्पादित  by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in North America by Bandai Entertainment on July 26 , 2011 , and in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया on जुलाई 27 , 2011 in a खास विशेष one-off स्क्रीनिंग .
it थी released on सितंबर 3 , 2011  in Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on  नवम्बर 22 , 2011 लिये यूएसए , और दिसम्बर 1 , 2011 लिये जापानी  .
This film was  भी released on dvd on नवम्बर 22 , 2011 ( 2d  Version only ) .
The film  थी additionally शामिल साथ the प्लेस्टेशन 3 खेल , tekken संकर ,  and the Nintendo 3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a  चर्चा of nonprofit , voluntary पड़ोस वकालत  groups , see neighborhood association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by  a रियल एस्टेट डेवलपर लिये the purpose of विपणन , मैनेजिंग , और selling of घरों  and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the  संघ , जबकि allowing the डेवलपर to निकास वित्तीय और विधिक जिम्मेदारी of the  organization , typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential  खरीदार is typically a कंडीशन of खरीदें ; a खरीदार is n't दिए an विकल्प to अस्वीकृत  it .
Most  homeowner एसोसिएशन हैं incorporated , और हैं विषय to राज्य statutes कि govern non-profit corporations  and homeowner associations .
State  oversight of homeowner एसोसिएशन is minimal , और मुख्यतः takes  the form of laws which are inconsistent from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association  विधि , और कुछ राज्य , ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स , have वस्तुतः no homeowner  association law .
The fastest growing form of housing  in the संयुक्त राज्य आज is common-interest developments ( cids ) , a श्रेणी कि शामिल planned-unit developments of single-family  homes , condominiums , and cooperative apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner associations have  become increasingly आम in the  USA .
The Community  एसोसिएशन संस्थान व्यापार संघ अनुमानित कि hoas governed 24.8  million American homes and 62 million residents in 2010 .
A  prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have  महरूम विकसित चूंकि इसके domestication ca . 5000 bc  .
Breeds vary widely in appearance and  purpose , ranging इससे दिखाएँ breeds साथ long , बहती बाल to those in उपयोग as मॉडल  organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish  conquest of the इन्का साम्राज्य in 1532 , चयनात्मक प्रजनन by स्वदेशी दक्षिण अमरीकी peoples resulted in अनेक किस्में of घरेलू गिनी  pigs , which form the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock  लिये खाना , और प्रयत्न at improving the गिनी सुअर as a खाना सोर्स continue to  the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century  , the लक्ष्य in प्रजनन shifted to फ़ोकस on the विकास of appealing  pets .
To this end ,  विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी प्रजनन संगठन यहूद  founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders  संघ , an adjunct to the अमरीकी खरगोश प्रजनक संघ , is the शासी देह  in the United States and Canada .
The British Cavy  परिषद governs cavy क्लब in the संयुक्त किंगडम  .
Similar  संगठन मौजूद in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( ऑस्ट्रेलियाई नेशनल cavy परिषद ) और नई जीलैंड  ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club  publishes इसके अपना मानक of पूर्णता और determines  which breeds are eligible for showing .
New breeds continue  to emerge in the 21st सदी  .
Though there are  अनेक breeds of गिनी सुअर , तभी a few breeds हैं commonly मिला on the  show table as pets .
Most Guinea  सूअर मिला as पालतु यहूद either मिला अवांछनीय by प्रजनक or यहूद करवाया to be सुखद पालतु regardless  of how well they meet the breed standard of perfection .
the छोटी बाल , abyssinian , peruvian और sheltie ( उर्फ silkie ) breeds हैं those सबसे अक्सर देखी as पालतु ,  and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their  मानक रूप , nearly सब breeds आइये in a साटन रूपांतर  .
Satins , due to their hollow hair  shafts , possess coats of a खास gloss और  shine .
However , there is  growing प्रमाण कि the जीनों जिम्मेदार लिये the साटन कोट भी can कारण कठोर अस्थि समस्याएं , सहित  Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by  कुछ cavy प्रजनक ' एसोसिएशन क्युकी of एनिमल  welfare reasons .
All cavy breeds  have कुछ साझा सामान्य मानकों : the सिर प्रोफ़ाइल चाहिए be rounded  , with large eyes and large , smooth ears .
The body should be strong  और of कॉम्पैक्ट निर्माण  .
Coat colour should in all  विसंगतियाँ be clearly पारिभाषित और thorough  from root to tip .
These  मानकों हैं बेहतरीन मिले by long स्थापित , commonly करवाया breeds , as उनके प्रजनक have  had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and  thoroughness is rarely मिले by अन्य than the चिकना coated breeds , जिससे have था खूब स्थापित , पृथक  breeding lines for different colours .
State  स्कूलों ( भी ज्ञात as पब्लिक स्कूलों or सरकारी स्कूलों ) generally refer to प्राथमिक or द्वितीयक स्कूलों mandated लिये or offered to सब children  without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The term may also refer to institutions  of post-secondary शिक्षा वित्तपोषित , in पूरे or in भाग , और overseen  by government .
The  राइबोसोम assembles polymeric प्रोटीन अणुओं जिनकी अनुक्रम is नियंत्रित  by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
इस is जरूरी by सब जीना  cells and associated viruses .
The  राइबोसोम ( इससे ribonucleic एसिड और the यूनानी सोम , अर्थ `` देह '' ) is a विशाल और जटिल आणविक  machine , found within all living cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino  acids साथ in the अनुक्रम निर्दिष्ट by  messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules .
Ribosomes consist of two major subunits—the small  ribosomal subunit पढ़े the mrna , जबकि the विशाल subunit joins  amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is composed of one or more  ribosomal rna ( rrna ) अणुओं और a किस्में of  proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a  प्रोटीन may be कॉपी अनेक टाइम्स into मेसेंजर rna  ( mRNA ) chains of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to  an mrna कड़ी और उपयोग it as a टेम्पलेट लिये determining  the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected  , एकत्रित और carried to the राइबोसोम by ट्रांसफ़र rna ( trna अणुओं ) , जिससे डालें एक  part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The attached amino acids are  तब linked साथ by another भाग of the  ribosome .
Once the protein is  उत्पादित , it can तब 'fold ' to उपज a विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक three-dimensional  structure .
A ribosome is made from complexes of  rnas और प्रोटीन और is इसलिए a ribonucleoprotein  .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller  subunit बांधता to the mrna पैटर्न , जबकि the larger subunit बांधता  to the tRNA and the amino acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule  , ये दो subunits विभाजित अलावा  .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the  catalytic peptidyl transferase कार्यकलाप कि कड़ी अमीनो acids साथ is performed  by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from  जीवाणु , आर्किया और eukaryotes ( the तीन डोमेन of जीवन on धरती ) differ in उनके  size , sequence , structure , and the ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some  एंटीबायोटिक to मार जीवाणु by inhibiting उनके ribosomes , जबकि leaving इंसान ribosomes  unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move  साथ a सिंगल mrna कड़ी at एक समय , प्रत्येक `` पढना '' इसके अनुक्रम और producing a सम्बन्धित  protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of  eukaryotic कोशिकाएं functionally resemble अनेक सुविधाएँ of those in जीवाणु , reflecting the  likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve ,  और जार्ज एमिल palade यहूद jointly awarded the नोबेल पुरस्कार in physiology or आयुर्विज्ञान  , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel  पुरस्कार in रसायन 2009 थी awarded to venkatraman रामकृष्णन , थामस A. steitz और एडीए E. yonath लिये determining the विस्तृत ढांचा  and mechanism of the ribosome .
The  सरलीकृत आतंरिक ढांचा of  a chloroplast
Overview of the Calvin  साईकिल और कार्बन fixation
The  light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis हैं रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ  that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the  stroma , the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a हरितलवक  outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the  light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ और perform further रासायनिक प्रक्रियाओं  on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions ,  collectively पुकारा the calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation , कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ , और ribulose  1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name ,  इस प्रक्रम occurs तभी जब लाइट is  available .
Plants do not  carry आउट the calvin साईकिल by  night .
They , instead , release sucrose  into the फ्लोएम इससे उनके मंड reserves  .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and  crassulacean एसिड चयापचय ) ; कैम पौधे स्टोर malic एसिड in उनके vacuoles प्रत्येक रात्रि और रिलीज it by दिन in  order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or  पूर्ण वर्गाकार is an पूर्णांक कि is the वर्गाकार of an पूर्णांक  ; in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For  उदाहरण , 9 is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक ,  since it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for  the वर्गाकार of a क्रमांक is नहीं the उत्पाद , लकिन the समतुल्य घातांक  , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name square number comes  इससे the नाम of the आकार ;  see below .
वर्गाकार संख्याएँ हैं  non-negative .
Another way of saying  कि a ( non-negative ) क्रमांक is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक , is  that its square roots are again integers .
For example ,  = ±3 , so 9 is a वर्गाकार क्रमांक  .
A  धनात्मक पूर्णांक कि रै no पूर्ण वर्गाकार divisors  except 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the  th वर्गाकार क्रमांक is , साथ होने the zeroth वर्गाकार .
The  अवधारणा of वर्गाकार can be विस्तारित to  some other number systems .
If rational numbers are included , then a square is the ratio  of दो वर्गाकार integers , और , conversely , the अनुपात of दो वर्गाकार integers is a वर्गाकार ( e.g. , 4/9 = (  2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 ,  वहीँ हैं वर्गाकार संख्याएँ up to और सहित , जहाँ the अभिव्यक्ति  represents the floor of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political history of  the संयुक्त राज्य कि reflected a भाव of नेशनल purpose और a ख्वाहिश लिये एकता among अमेरिकी in the aftermath of the  Napoleonic Wars .
The  era देखी the पतन of the federalist पार्टी और an समाप्त to the कड़वा दलगत विवादों between  it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System .
President James Monroe  endeavored to downplay दलगत संबद्ध in बनाना उसके nominations , साथ the परम लक्ष्य of नेशनल एकता  and eliminating parties altogether from national politics .
The period is so closely associated with  मुनरो 's प्रेसिडेंसी ( 1817–1825 ) और उसके प्रशासनिक लक्ष्य कि उसके नाम और  the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in  अमरीकी राजनीती साथ the समाप्त of the federalist पार्टी as अमेरिका began to develop बाद  the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing  विकास और समृद्धि बाद the युद्ध साथ ब्रिटेन , इस era भी marks the पहला उदाहरण of आर्थिक परेशानियों  in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay ,  सुरक्षात्मक tariffs और the chartering of the दूसरी बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य जटिल the टेंशन between  the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis .
While the term “Era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with irony because of  the राजनैतिक turmoil , आर्थिक कारकों caused animosity between the उत्तर और  South .
The designation  of the काल by इतिहासकारों as एक of “good feelings” is प्रायः conveyed साथ विडंबना or skepticism , as the इतिहास of the era थी एक in जिससे the राजनैतिक माहौल थी  strained and divisive , especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party .
The phrase “Era  of शुभ feelings” थी coined by बेंजामिन रसेल , in the बोस्टन federalist समाचारपत्र , columbian  Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America .
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm (  born कूच 17 , 1972 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी पेशेवर सॉकर  player .
hamm निभाई अनेक सालो as a आगे लिये the संयुक्त राज्य महिलाओं 's नेशनल  soccer team and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158  अंतरराष्ट्रीय लक्ष्य , अधिक than कोई अन्य खिलाड़ी , पुरूष or मादा , in the इतिहास of सॉकर और is the तीसरा सबसे capped मादा खिलाड़ी  in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World  खिलाड़ी of the साल the पहला दो टाइम्स कि पुरस्कार थी दिए ( in 2001 और 2002 )  , and is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by Pelé ) .
वो थी inducted into the नेशनल सॉकर हॉल of कीर्ति as खूब as the अलबामा  Sports Hall of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's  मार्गदर्शिका to जीतना in सॉकर और जीवन और appeared in the एचबीओ वृत्तचित्र  Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called  hamm , `` शायद the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण खिलाड़ी of the पिछला 15  years . ''
Hamm  takes a कोने  kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an  अमरीकी पेशेवर सॉकर टोली आधारित in हैरिसन , नई जर्सी , representing  the New York metropolitan area .
The team competes in  the पूर्वी सम्मेलन of प्रमुख लीग  Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter  क्लब of mls , having competed in the  league since its inception .
The team  थी a founding सदस्य of mls ( 1996 ) , लकिन रै गए through अनेक  name changes .
The  टोली थी originally ज्ञात as the नई york/new जर्सी  MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season  through the 2005 ऋतु , the टोली थी ज्ञात as  the MetroStars .
On  कूच 9 , 2006 , the टोली थी बेची to रेड सांड gmbh ,  leading to the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any significant trophy (  सहित नियमित ऋतु , playoffs , और नॉकआउट प्रतियोगिता ) चूंकि inception  .
The  टोली 's बेहतरीन परिणाम in the mls थी the mls  Cup final in 2008 .
In the US Open Cup , the MetroStars reached three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 ,  2000 ) , पहले reaching उनके पहला फाइनल in 2003 , खोने 1–0 to the शिकागो आग  .
On August 26 ,  2000 , the metros ' क्लिंट mathis नियत an mls रिकार्ड by स्कोरिंग पाँच लक्ष्य in a खेल विरूद्ध  the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for  the टोली शामिल giovanni savarese , टिम हावर्ड , टोनी meola , tab ramos , alexi lalas , क्लिंट mathis , jozy altidore , माइकल ब्राडली , क्लाउडियो reyna , एडी पोप , रॉबर्टो donadoni , lothar matthäus , एडोल्फो वालेंसिया , youri djorkaeff , amado ग्वेरा , जुआन पाब्लो ángel , thierry  Henry , Juninho Pernambucano , Jan Gunnar Solli , Rafael Márquez , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known coaches , including Carlos Queiroz , Carlos  अल्बर्टो parreira , बोरा milutinović , bob ब्राडली , mo johnston , ब्रूस एरिना और hans backe  .
Confucianism , Taoism ,  और buddhism हैं एक , a पेंटिंग in the litang स्टाइल portraying तीन मेन हँस by a नदी स्ट्रीम , 12th  century , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists  in the संसार , or in अनेक देशों , is मुश्किल due to definitional मुद्दे as खूब  as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with , the religious  मान्यताओं , practices , और पहचान of ईस्ट एशियाइ ( जो comprise the बहुमत of the संसार 's बौद्धों by कोई माप ) प्रायः मिश्रण buddhism  with other traditions including Confucianism , the Chinese folk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe  a definite अनुष्ठान of adherence ऐसे as लेने शरण , बनाना it मुश्किल to accurately अनुमान the क्रमांक of practitioners .
An  अतिरिक्त चुनौती is the दुश्मनी of अनेक नेशनल सरकारें ( प्रायः कम्युनिस्ट ones  such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting  in आधिकारिक योग कि may drastically underestimate the क्रमांक of धार्मिक  practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide  बौद्ध जनसांख्यिकी दायरा इससे 350 लाख to over एक अरब , लकिन क्लस्टर  nearer to the first figure .
Adherents.com ( as of  2012 ) suggests a फिगर of 397  million .
By major  शाखाओं , the संख्याएँ हैं as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana  buddhism , सहित ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism , साथ no कम than 185 लाख adherents , और संभवतः अनेक  times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is  the predominant रूप of buddhism practiced in चीन , दक्षिण कोरियाई  , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism ,  साथ no कम than 125 लाख  adherents .
इस is the predominant रूप of buddhism practiced in कंबोडिया  , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3  ) वज्रयान buddhism , साथ लगभग  20 million adherents .
This form predominates in the  वृहद तिब्बती और मंगोलियाई regions  , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan  , और विभिन्न territories भीतर कया is अभी पश्चिमी चीन , वज्रयान is परंपरागत to निश्चित regions of रूस ( e.g . कालमिकिया , बुर्यातिया  ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated  साथ तांत्रिक buddhism , लकिन इस is imprecise , as shingon और अन्य फ़ॉर्म of ईस्ट एशियाई buddhism भी अभ्यास  tantra .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka ,  थाईलैंड , कंबोडिया , लाओस , बर्मा , भूटान , और मंगोल ) have unambiguous  Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents , this  फिगर might विस्तार to शामिल अनेक अधिक  countries .
In  जोड , buddhism is the राज्य धर्म of कंबोडिया और भूटान , और receives  prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In northern India and Nepal , the land  जहाँ buddhism थी born , the धर्म severely अस्वीकृत दौरान the पहला मिलेनियम  .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic  conquest of उत्तरी इण्डिया , or to अन्य कारकों , remains  controversial .
See the  आलेख मनाही of buddhism in  India .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 –  अगस्त 2 , 1876 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात as जंगली विधेयक hickok , थी a लोक नायिका of the  American Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his  प्रतिष्ठा as a lawman , provided the आधार लिये उसके कीर्ति , हालांकि कुछ of उसके  reported exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went west at age  18 as a भगोड़े इससे इंसाफ , पहला working as a stagecoach ड्राइवर , पहले he became a lawman in the  frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He fought for the Union Army during the American  सिविल युद्ध , और gained publicity बाद the युद्ध as a स्काउट , marksman , कर्ता ,  and professional gambler .
between उसके law-enforcement कर्तव्य और जुए , जिससे easily  overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the  nuttal & मन 's सैलून in deadwood , डकोटा territory ( अभी दक्षिण  Dakota ) .
Artist 's  धारणा of the जिज्ञासा रोवर vaporizing चट्टान  on Mars .
The rover landed on  मंगल in अगस्त 2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which  propels itself आरपार the सतह of the ग्रह मंगल बाद  landing .
Rovers have several  लाभ over stationary landers : वे जाँचें अधिक territory , वे can be निर्देशित to दिलचस्प सुविधाएँ , वे can प्लेस themselves in सनी स्थितियाँ to मौसम  winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control .
There have been  चार कामयाब robotically  operated Mars rovers .
The Jet  नोदन प्रयोगशाला प्रबंधित the मंगल pathfinder  mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the Mars  खोजी रोवर मिशन 's क्रियाशील अवसर रोवर और निष्क्रिय स्पिरिट , और , as भाग of the मंगल विज्ञान  Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or more accurately , an audit  of वित्तीय कथन , is the सत्यापन of the वित्तीय कथन  of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute assurance , that the financial  कथन हैं प्रस्तुत fairly , in सब सामग्री respects , and/or दे a सच्चा और मेला दृश्य in accordance साथ the वित्तीय रिपोर्टिंग  framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements , which increases the value and  विश्वसनीयता of the वित्तीय कथन उत्पादित by प्रबन्धन , यूँ बढ़ाएँ उपयोक्ता विश्वास in the वित्तीय बयान , reduce निवेशकों रिस्क और नतीजतन reduce the लागत of पूंजी  of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of  practicing लेखपाल जो हैं विशेषज्ञ in वित्तीय रिपोर्टिंग  .
The financial audit is one  of अनेक परख कृत्यों provided by हिसाब firms  .
Many  संगठन separately employ or hire आतंरिक auditors , जो do नहीं attest to वित्तीय रिपोर्ट्स लकिन फ़ोकस मुख्यतः  on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may  चुनें to प्लेस सीमित रिलायंस on the कार्य of आतंरिक auditors  .
Auditing promotes  पारदर्शिता और सटीकता in the वित्तीय disclosures बना by an संगठन , इसलिए होता संभावित to reduce of ऐसे corporations  to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों on auditing ( isa ) जारी by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process .
Almost all jurisdictions  आवश्यकता auditors to follow the isa or a लोकल विभिन्नता  of the ISA .
Dollar coins have been minted  in the संयुक्त राज्य in सुनहरा , चांदी  , and base metal versions .
The term  चांदी डालर is प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये कोई विशाल श्वेत मेटल सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य साथ a फेस मान of एक डालर , हालांकि purists जिद कि  a dollar is not silver unless it contains some of that metal .
Silver dollars ,  the पहला डालर सिक्का समस्या , यहूद minted शुरूआत  in 1794 .
Gold dollars  और gold-colored डॉलर have भी  been produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars  हैं प्रायः referred to as `` सुनहरी डॉलर  '' .
In  आधुनिक टाइम्स , डालर सिक्के have नहीं महरूम बहुत  popular in the United States .
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use ,  सबसे अमेरिकी फिलहाल उपयोग the एक डालर विधेयक बल्कि than डालर  coins .
In straight  और स्तर उड़ान लिफ्ट ( l ) बराबरी  weight ( W ) .
In a banked turn of 60° ,  लिफ्ट बराबरी दोगुना the वज़न ( l=2w  ) .
The pilot  अनुभवों 2g और a doubled वज़न  .
The  steeper the बैंको , the वृहद  the g-forces .
This top-fuel  dragster can accelerate इससे शून्य to  in 0.86 seconds .
This is a horizontal acceleration  of 5.3 g. संयुक्त साथ the लंबवत g-force in the stationary मामला the pythagorean प्रमेय yields a g फ़ोर्स  of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations felt as  वज़न और measurable by accelerometers  .
It is not a  फ़ोर्स , प्रति se , लकिन a फ़ोर्स प्रति ईकाई  mass .
Since such a force is perceived as a weight , any  g-force can be वर्णित as a `` वज़न प्रति ईकाई द्रव्यमान '' ( देखिए the पर्याय  specific weight ) .
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an  ऑब्जेक्ट 's द्रव्यमान , और ( सहेजें लिये निश्चित इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ोर्स प्रभाव ) is the कारण of an ऑब्जेक्ट 's त्वरण in संबंध  to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an object is  due to the वेक्टर योग of non-gravitational शक्तियां एक्टिंग on an ऑब्जेक्ट फ़्री to मूव  .
the accelerations कि हैं नहीं उत्पादित by गम्भीरता हैं termed उचित  accelerations , and it is only these that are measured in g-force units .
They  कारण तनावों और strains  on objects .
Because of  ये strains , विशाल g-forces may  be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force , even  हालांकि g-forces हैं expressed in multiples of the त्वरण of a मानक  gravity .
Thus , the standard  गुरुत्वाकर्षक त्वरण at the धरती 's सतह produces g-force तभी indirectly , as  a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an  ऑब्जेक्ट बैठे on the धरती 's सतह is caused by mechanical फ़ोर्स exerted  in the upward direction by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the  मैदान ensures कि an ऑब्जेक्ट at बाकी on the धरती 's सतह is accelerating सापेक्ष to the free-fall कंडीशन  , which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects allowed to free-fall in an  inertial trajectory अंतर्गत the influence of gravitation-only ,  feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling elevator  गिरना toward the धरती 's बीच ( in वैक्यूम ) , or ( to शुभ सन्निकटन ) शर्तें अंदर a spacecraft in धरती कक्षा  .
ये हैं उदाहरण of निर्देशांक त्वरण ( a बदलें  in velocity ) without a sensation of weight .
The experience of no  g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is उत्पादित ,  is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the absence of gravitational  फ़ील्ड , or in दिशानिर्देश at सही कोण to उन्हें , उचित और निर्देशांक accelerations हैं the वही , और  any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
an उदाहरण यहाँ is a प्रक्षेपास्त्र in फ़्री स्पेस , in जिससे सरल परिवर्तन in गति  are produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur  पकड़कर a lituus , the curved wand प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a प्रतीक of augury  on Roman coins
The augur was a  पुजारी और आधिकारिक in the शास्त्रीय संसार , विशेषकर  ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to  interpret the होगा of the देवताओं by अध्ययन the उड़ान of पक्षियों : whether वे हैं उड़ती in समूह or अलोन , कया noises वे मेक as वे मक्खी , दिशा  of flight and what kind of birds they are .
This was  ज्ञात as `` लेने the  auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major  undertaking in रोमन society—public or private—including matters of युद्ध , कॉमर्स , और धर्म  .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : ``  जो करता नहीं जान कि इस नगर थी संस्थापित तभी बाद लेने the auspices , कि सबकुछ in युद्ध और in सलाम , at घर और विदेश ,  was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an  affluent जातियाँ in southeastern मिशिगन  .
It is the second largest  नगर in ओकलैंड काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य  of Michigan .
Its population was  79,740 at the 2010  census .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan  डेट्रॉयट और is भी पूर्वोत्तर of शहर  Ann Arbor .
Farmington Hills  consistently बाँधने as एक of the safest शहरों in the संयुक्त राज्य , as खूब  as in the state of Michigan .
In 2010 ,  the क्षेत्रफल क्रमित as the  30th safest city in America .
Although the two cities  have पृथक सेवाएं और पता , farmington और farmington पहाड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः  thought of as the same community .
Features of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage cinema  , numerous रेस्तरां , exotic car dealerships , आर्ट गैलरी , और पब्लिक पार्क सहित  Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites including  the longacre हाउस और the राज्यपाल warner  Mansion .
Both  शहरों हैं परोसा by farmington  Public Schools .
Farmington  पहाड़ियाँ serves as a प्रमुख कारोबार बीच लिये the वृहद  Detroit area .
present-day छाप of a लेट कांस्य  Age seal
कस्बा मुहर ( मेट्रिक्स )  of Náchod from 1570
A seal is a  यंत्र लिये बनाना an छाप in मोम , मिट्टी , पेपर , or कुछ अन्य मीडियम , सहित an embossment  on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The  असली purpose थी to authenticate a दस्तावेज़ , a wrapper लिये एक ऐसे as a आधुनिक लिफाफा , or the कवर of a संग्राहक or पैकेज पकड़कर valuables or  other objects .
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould , with the  फाइनल चित्र represented on the यंत्र लिये बनाना the छाप by a mirror-image डिज़ाइन , incised in sunken- ( or  counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred  to as the मुहर मेट्रिक्स or die ; the imprint it creates as the मुहर छाप ( or , अधिक rarely  , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the high  भाग of the मेट्रिक्स टच , the मुहर is ज्ञात as a शुष्क मुहर ; in सब अन्य मामले a द्रव or liquified मीडियम ( ऐसे as स्याही or मोम ) is प्रयुक्त , प्रायः in another रंग than  the paper .
For legal purposes , the  परिभाषा of a मुहर may be विस्तारित to शामिल रबर stamps , or लिखने निर्दिष्ट शब्द ( ``  seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United States , the word `` seal  '' is sometimes आबंटित to a facsimile of the मुहर डिज़ाइन ( in मोनोक्रोम or रंग ) , जिससे may be प्रयुक्त in a किस्में of  contexts including architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears on the reverse  of the one-dollar विधेयक ; और अनेक of the seals of the u.S. राज्य appear on उनके संबंधित  state flags .
in यूरोपीय , हालांकि coats of बाहें और  heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals , the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is known  as sigillography or sphragistics  .
Groundhog Day (  पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी : grundsaudaag , murmeltiertag ) is a दिन  celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its  छाया और रिट्रीट वापस into इसके burrow , और the शीत मौसम होगा continue लिये  six more weeks .
Modern customs  of the अवकाश involve जश्न जहाँ जल्दी morning त्यौहार हैं आयोजित to देखें the  groundhog emerging from its burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with  fersommlinge , सोशल कार्यक्रम in जिससे खाना is परोसा , भाषणों हैं बना , और एक or अधिक g'spiel ( plays or skits ) हैं  performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event , and those who speak English pay a  दंड , प्रायः in the रूप of a निकल , dime , or क्वार्टर प्रति शब्द बोला , साथ the धन put into a कटोरी in the  center of the table .
The largest  groundhog दिन जश्न is आयोजित in  Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized  और लोकप्रिय परंपरा , प्राप्त फैली ध्यान as a परिणाम of the 1993 फिल्मी groundhog दिन , जिससे थी नियत in punxsutawney , pa ( हालांकि फिल्माया  primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High resolution  चित्र of tampa खाड़ी प्रदेश
The Tampa Bay area has  a आर्द्र उपोष्ण जलवायु ( koppen cfa ) , साथ गरम और आर्द्र ग्रीष्म साथ बारंबार thunderstorms और drier सर्दियों साथ  freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3 years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual  वर्षण जलप्रपात in the महीने of जून through  September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of  कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) as होने in hardiness मण्डल 10 , जिससे is परिचय the उत्तरी सीमा of जहाँ नारियल हथेलियां और royal हथेलियां can be grown .
Highs  प्रायः दायरा between 65 और 95 °f ( 18  and 35 °C ) year round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's official high has never  पहुँचे 100 °f ( 38 °c ) – the नगर 's all-time रिकार्ड तापमान is 99 °f ( 37 °c  ) .
St. Petersburg 's all-time record  ऊँची is exactly 100 °f ( 38 °c  ) .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf of Mexico , and much  of the नगर of tampa झूठ on a छोटी प्रायद्वीप jutting आउट into tampa  Bay .
This proximity to large bodies of water both moderates temperatures  और introduces विशाल amounts of आर्द्रता into the माहौल  .
In general , the  लोकल समुदायों farthest इससे the coast have larger तापमान सीमाएँ , दोनो दौरान a सिंगल दिन और throughout  the seasons of the year .
A diagram of the electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम , प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार the दायरा  of frequencies and wavelengths
The  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम is the दायरा of सब संभावित बारंबारता of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of  an ऑब्जेक्ट रै a अलग अर्थ , और is बजाय the characteristic वितरण of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण  emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम extends इससे नीचे the कम बारंबारता प्रयुक्त लिये आधुनिक रेडियो संचार to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency  ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself ,  जबकि it is विचार कि the छोटी wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई , हालांकि in principle the वर्णक्रम is अनन्त  and continuous .
सबसे भाग of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम हैं प्रयुक्त in विज्ञान लिये spectroscopic  and other probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation  इससे विभिन्न भाग of the वर्णक्रम रै मिला अनेक अन्य उपयोग लिये संचार और निर्माण ( देखिए इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano  रूज़वेल्ट ( or ; जनवरी 30 , 1882 – अप्रैल 12 , 1945 ) , भी ज्ञात by उसके आद्याक्षर , fdr , थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th सदी , अग्रणी the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान a समय  of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic  पार्टी और the तभी अमरीकी अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित to अधिक than दो शर्तें , he निर्मित a नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932  , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme , FDR  पराजित लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट हूवर in नवम्बर 1932 , at the गहराई  of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over polio  , fdr 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a नवीकरण  of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston  चर्चिल और सोवियत सामान्य सचिव जोसेफ स्टालिन in अग्रणी the allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी और जापानी in संसार युद्ध ii , और restoring  prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which  began कूच 4 , 1933 , रूज़वेल्ट पथप्रदर्शन प्रमुख विधान और जारी a profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the नई सौदे —a किस्में of कार्यक्रम designed to उपज राहत  ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved  rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937 , लकिन तब  relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that  formed in 1937 prevented उसके पैकिंग the परम् अदालत or गुजर कोई considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम जब बेरोजगारी  diminished during World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended  परिचय 1975–85 , मगर लिये the विनियमन of वॉल गली by the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग  , which still exists .
साथ साथ अनेक छोटी कार्यक्रम , प्रमुख surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम  , which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China and  the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी , fdr दिया दमदार राजनयिक और वित्तीय support to चीन और ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , जबकि बाकी officially  neutral .
His goal was to make  अमेरिका the `` आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र `` जिससे होता सप्लाई munitions to the  Allies .
In March 1941 ,  रूज़वेल्ट , साथ congressional स्वीकृति , provided lend-lease सहायता to  the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on  जापानी और जर्मनी बाद the जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर  on December 7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He  पर्यवेक्षित the mobilization of the u.S. अर्थव्यवस्था to  support the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy  on दो fronts कि ended in the शिकस्त of the अक्ष शक्तियां और the विकास of the संसार 's पहला अणु बमबारी .
In 1942 Roosevelt  ordered the internment of 100,000 जापानी अमरीकी  civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % ,  राहत कार्यक्रम largely ended , और the औद्योगिक अर्थव्यवस्था grew rapidly to नई हाइट्स as लाखो of लोगों  moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt  वर्चस्व the अमरीकी राजनैतिक झाँकी नहीं तभी दौरान the बारह सालो  of his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of  मतदाता कि निर्मित the पांचवां पार्टी प्रणाली  .
FDR 's New  सौदे गठबन्धन संयुक्त मजदूर संघ , बिग नगर मशीने ,  white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He  भी बहकावे the बाद सृष्टि of the संयुक्त  Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is  consistently रेटेड by विद्वानों as एक of the शीर्ष तीन u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों , साथ साथ  Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat ,  रूज़वेल्ट पारिभाषित उसके वैचारिक स्थिति as `` a छोटी बाएँ of बीच  . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer  to a कमेटी बना up of सदस्यों of दोनो कक्षों of a bicameral विधानमंडल  .
In other  contexts , it refers to a कमेटी साथ  members from more than one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth  amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , it is इसलिए exclusively the डोमेन of the राज्य to परमिट , prohibit , or वरना विनियमित वाणिज्यिक sex , मगर insofar  as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a  misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक अनुक्रम अपराधों , a अपराधों कि disrupts  the order of a community .
it थी at एक समय माना to be  a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to  allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति , the शर्तें of जिससे हैं stipulated in the  Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8  काउंटी फिलहाल contain क्रियाशील  brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area )  , washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains रेनो ) , कार्सन नगर , डगलस काउंटी , और lincoln काउंटी  .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel  वेश्यावृति , लकिन कुछ of ये काउंटी फिलहाल have  no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of  the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा विधि , as elsewhere in the  country .
As with other countries , prostitution in  the संयुक्त राज्य can be विभाजित into तीन व्यापक श्रेणी : गली  prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom  ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ श्वेत , साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing पचास छोटी , श्वेत , five-pointed सितारों arranged in नौ ऑफसेट आड़ा पंक्ति of छह  stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the  तेरह अंग्रेजों colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और became the पहला राज्य in the संघ .
Nicknames for the flag include the  `` सितारों और धारियाँ '' , `` बूढ़ा महिमा `` , और `` the star-spangled  Banner . ''
इण्डिया is a संघीय संघ of राज्य comprising twenty-eight राज्य और सात संघ  territories .
The states and territories  हैं further subdivided into जिले  and so on .
Congressional districts for the  113th संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस
2010  जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in apportionment of  congressional जिले , starting in 2013 , as a परिणाम of  the 2010 census .
2000  जनसांख्यिकी change:
Change in  apportionment of congressional जिले , इससे 2003 to 2013  , as a result of the 2000 census .
This is a complete list of  congressional जिले लिये प्रतिनिधित्व in the संयुक्त राज्य  House of Representatives .
The quantity ( apportionment ) and boundaries (  redistricting ) of जिले हैं संकल्पित बाद प्रत्येक जनसांख्यिकी , हालांकि in कुछ मामले राज्य have बदला the सीमाएँ अधिक than एकबार  per census .
This list includes the  435 वर्तमान और over 200 obsolete जिले  .
For example , since the 2000  जनसांख्यिकी , नेब्रास्का रै था तीन जिले , लकिन it प्रयुक्त  to have as many as six .
In the first decade of the twenty-first century , Texas had 32  जिले , लकिन रै चूंकि added चार due to reapportionment as a परिणाम of the 2010  census .
अन्य राज्य have खोया जिले चूंकि the क्रमांक  of congressional seats has been set at 435 by statute .
Also included here are  non-voting delegations : छह वर्तमान और चार obsolete  .
The boundaries of  जिले प्रायः शिफ़्ट साथ प्रत्येक redistricting  .
Over time , the  प्रदेश और जनसांख्यिकी represented in a ज़िला  can change substantially .
Furthermore , districts  sometimes retain the वही सीमाएँ जबकि  changing their district numbers .
Mariah Carey ( born  कूच 27 , 1970 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर , songwriter ,  record producer , actress , and philanthropist .
Under the guidance of Columbia  रिकॉर्ड कार्यपालिका टॉमी mottola , कैरी released उसके self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और  spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
Following her  विवाह to mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ) , म्यूज़िक बक्सा ( 1993 ) , और मैरी क्रिसमस  ( 1994 ) , Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 )  बना म्यूज़िक इतिहास जब इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` एक मीठी दिन `` , a duet साथ बॉयज ii मेन , खर्च a रिकार्ड सोलह सप्ताह on शीर्ष of the बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 , and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording of the album , Carey began to deviate  इससे उसके r & b और पॉप beginnings और धीरे traversed  into hip hop .
This  musical बदलें became evident साथ the रिलीज of तितली (  1997 ) , at which time Carey had separated from Mottola .
Carey  बाएँ कोलंबिया in 2000 , और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking  $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin Records .
Before the  रिलीज of उसके पहला विशेषता फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ) , वो suffered a शारीरिक  and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion .
Following the film 's  ग़रीब रिसेप्शन , वो थी खरीदा आउट of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध लिये  $ 50 million , which led to a decline in her career .
She signed a multi-million  डालर अनुबंध सौदे साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002 , और बाद an unsuccessful  period , returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second single ``  we belong साथ `` became उसके सबसे कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s , और  was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard .
कैरी एकबार again ventured into फिल्मी साथ a well-received अभिनीत भूमिका in ( 2009 ) ; वो थी awarded the `` भेदन प्रदर्शन  Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a career  spanning over दो दशकों , कैरी रै बेची अधिक than  200 million records worldwide , making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
In 1998 , she was honored as the world 's best-selling  रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार  .
Carey was also named the  best-selling मादा कलाकार of the मिलेनियम  in 2000 .
According to  the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका , वो is the तीसरा best-selling  female artist in the United States , with 63.5 million certified albums .
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ) , Carey gained her  eighteenth क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य , अधिक than कोई अन्य सोलो  artist .
In 2012 , Carey was ranked second on  vh1 's सूची of the `` 100 महानतम महिलाओं  in Music '' .
Aside from her commercial accomplishments ,  कैरी रै जीती पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , 17 संसार म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , 11 अमरीकी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , और 31 बिलबोर्ड  Music Awards .
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the  गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड , वो is famed लिये उसके five-octave गायन दायरा , शक्ति , melismatic स्टाइल और हस्ताक्षर उपयोग of  the whistle register .
Stratocumulus  stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology , a cloud is a visible mass of  द्रव droplets or frozen crystals बना of जल or विभिन्न रसायन निलंबित in the माहौल  above the surface of a planetary body .
These suspended  अणु हैं भी ज्ञात as aerosols  .
Clouds in Earth 's atmosphere are  पढ़ाई in the बादल भौतिकी शाखा of meteorology  .
Two processes , possibly  एक्टिंग साथ , can सीसे to एयर बनने संतृप्त ; कूलिंग the एयर or adding  water vapor to the air .
In general , precipitation will fall to the  सतह ; an एक्सेप्शन is virga , जिससे evaporates पहले  reaching the surface .
The international cloud classification system is based on the fact clouds in their most  मौलिक फ़ॉर्म can दिखाएँ free-convective upward विकास जैसे कपासी , appear in non-convective परतदार चादरें ऐसे as स्ट्रेट्स , or लो the रूप of पतला  fibrous wisps , as in the case of cirrus .
Prefixes are used  in कनेक्शन साथ बादल to एक्स्प्रेस विसंगतियाँ or complexities  in these basic forms or to specify middle or high altitude ranges .
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers , cumulo- for complex highly-convective storm clouds ,  nimbo- लिये मोटा परतदार बादल of कुछ जटिलता कि can उपज मॉडरेट to भारी वर्षण , alto- लिये मध्य बादल , और cirro- लिये ऊँची  clouds ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure .
whether or नहीं a बादल is कम , मध्य , or ऊँची स्तर depends on कैसा  far above the ground its base forms .
बादल प्रकार साथ significant लंबवत extent can रूप in the कम or मध्य ऊँचाई  ranges depending on the moisture content of the air .
Clouds in the  क्षोभमण्डल have लैटिन names due to the लोकप्रिय अनुकूलन of ल्यूक हावर्ड 's बादल categorization प्रणाली ,  which began to spread in popularity during December 1802 .
Synoptic surface  मौसम observations उपयोग कोड संख्याएँ to रिकार्ड और रपट the प्रकार of tropospheric बादल दृश्य at प्रत्येक अनुसूचित अवलोकन समय आधारित on the ऊँचाई और शारीरिक  appearance of the clouds .
While a majority of clouds form in Earth 's  क्षोभमण्डल , वहीँ हैं अवसरों जब बादल in the stratosphere और mesosphere  can be observed .
These three main layers of the atmosphere where  बादल may be देखी हैं collectively ज्ञात as the homosphere  .
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere , which  साथ मेक up the heterosphere कि marks the परिवर्तन  to outer space .
Clouds have been  observed on अन्य ग्रह और moons भीतर the सौर प्रणाली , लकिन , due to उनके अलग तापमान विशेषताएँ  , they are composed of other substances such as methane , ammonia , and sulfuric acid .
Galveston County is a county located in the  u.S. राज्य of टेक्सास भीतर the houston–sugar land–baytown महानगर  area .
As of  the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी , the जनसांख्यिकी थी 291,309  .
Its county  सीट is galveston  .
League City is the largest city in  galveston काउंटी in शर्तें of जनसांख्यिकी ; url_http between 2000  and 2005 it surpassed Galveston as the county 's largest city .
galveston काउंटी थी संस्थापित  in 1838 .
nassau
freeport , बहामा
इस is a सूची of शहरों in the  Bahamas .
The following  तालिका सूचियाँ the नगर or कस्बा नाम , the भौगोलिक निर्देशांक , the जनसांख्यिकी as of the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी , an अनुमान of the जनसांख्यिकी  as of 2009 , and the island name .
The Big Ten  सम्मेलन , formerly पश्चिमी सम्मेलन और बिग नौ सम्मेलन  , is the oldest Division I college athletic conference in the United States .
Its twelve member  संस्थानों ( जिससे हैं primarily फ्लैगशिप शोध विश्वविद्यालयों in उनके संबंधित  states , well-regarded academically , and with relatively large student enrollment ) are located primarily in the Midwest , stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east .
The conference competes in the NCAA 's Division I ; its football teams compete in the  फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ) , formerly ज्ञात as प्रभाग i-a , the उच्चतम स्तर of ncaa प्रतियोगिता  in that sport .
Member schools of the Big Ten ( or , in  दो मामले , उनके जनक विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणालियों ) भी हैं सदस्यों of the कमेटी  on Institutional Cooperation , a leading educational and research consortium .
Despite the conference 's name , the Big Ten actually consists of 12 schools  , following the जोड of the पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों in 1993 और the विश्वविद्यालयों of nebraska–lincoln  in 2011 .
In 2014 , the conference will expand to 14 members  साथ the परिवर्धन of the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड , कॉलेज पार्क और rutgers , the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई जर्सी  .
It is not to be confused with the Big 12 Conference , which has only ten  स्कूलों और represents a अलग प्रदेश  of the country .
सिंगल malt स्कॉच is सिंगल malt व्हिस्की बना in स्कॉटलैंड using a घट स्टिल आसवन  process at a single distillery , with malted barley as the only grain ingredient .
As with any Scotch whisky , a single malt Scotch must be distilled in Scotland and  matured in ओक casks in स्कॉटलैंड लिये at तनिक तीन सालो ( सबसे सिंगल malts हैं  matured longer ) .
`` Malt '' indicates that the whisky is  आसुत इससे a `` malted '' अनाज  .
Several types of  दाने can be malted ( लिये उदाहरण , जौ , rye और गेहूं हैं सब दाने जिससे can be malted ) ; however ,  in the case of single malt Scotch , barley is always the only grain used .
`` Single '' indicates that all  the malts in the बोतल आइये इससे a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी .
Bottlings containing malt whisky  इससे अनेक distilleries हैं पुकारा  `` blended malt `` .
जबतक the स्कॉच व्हिस्की regulations 2009 ( swr 2009 ) , the शब्द `` blended '' तभी appeared ( in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of स्कॉच व्हिस्की ) on बोतलों  of whisky that contained a mixture of both barley and non-barley grain whisky , but this is no longer the case .
Under the terminology established by the SWR 2009 , a `` blended malt Scotch  व्हिस्की '' is a मिश्रण of सिंगल malt स्कॉच whiskies , नहीं a मिश्रण of malted जौ व्हिस्की और non-barley व्हिस्की ; those हैं पुकारा `` blended स्कॉच व्हिस्की  '' , without the word `` malt '' .
The term `` blended malt ''  replaced `` vatted malt '' प्रयुक्त  under the prior labelling conventions .
the आयु बयान on a बोतल of सिंगल malt स्कॉच is the क्रमांक of सालो the व्हिस्की खर्च  maturing in cask .
As very few whiskies are bottled from a single cask the  आयु बयान reflects the आयु of the youngest malt in the मिक्सर  .
A texture may be arranged so as to , ``  closely दृष्टिकोण the single-object औकात of fused-ensemble timbres , लिये उदाहरण , the खूबसूरत 'northern लाइट्स ' कॉर्ड ... , in a बहुत दिलचस्प वितरण of pitches , produces a fused ध्वनि समर्थित by a निलंबित  cymbal roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ) , p.166 & 168 ) .
In contrast to more traditional musical textures , sound mass  संयोजन `` minimizes the महत्व of व्यक्तिगत pitches in वरीयता लिये बनावट , timbre , और डायनामिक्स as प्राथमिक shapers  of gesture and impact . ''
Developed from the modernist tone clusters and spread to orchestral writing by the late 1950s and 1960s  , sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between ध्वनि और रव `` ( एडवर्ड्स 2001 ,  pp . 326–27 ) .
Techniques which may create or be used with sound mass  शामिल विस्तारित तकनीकों ऐसे as मूक पीतल or स्ट्रिंग्स , आतुर tonguing , चौड़ी vibrato  , extreme ranges , and glissandos .
Composers and  works शामिल बारबरा kolb , pauline oliveros ' ध्वनि पैटर्न लिये कोरस ( 1961 )  , Norma Beecroft 's From Dreams of Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ) , and Nancy Van de Vate .
beecroft `` टुकड़ा व्यक्तिगत pitches in एहसान of a सामूहिक timbre through the उपयोग  of vocal and instrumental clusters , choral speech , narrator , and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape . ''
(  ibid )
A very early example is the opening of  jean-féry विद्रोही 's बैले लेस elémens ( 1737–38 ) , जहाँ अराजकता is represented by a धीरे cumulating orchestral क्लस्टर of सब सात  notes of the D minor scale ( Henck 2004 , pp . 52–54 ) .
A later example is the third movement of  रुथ क्रॉफर्ड seeger 's स्ट्रिंग quartet 1931 ( nonesuch h-71280 ) जबकि अधिक recently phill niblock 's अनेक ड्रोन आधारित म्यूज़िक  serves as an example .
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and Edgard  varèse प्रायः carefully scored व्यक्तिगत इंस्ट्रूमेंटल भाग so कि वे होता फ्यूज into एक ensemble timbre or ध्वनि द्रव्यमान ( एरिक्सन 1975  , pp . 18 and 21 ) .
Other examples include European ``  textural '' रचनाएं of the fifties और sixties ऐसे as krzysztof penderecki 's threnody to the पीड़ितों of हिरोशिमा ( 1959 ) और györgy ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony  in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ) .
Other composers with works  using इस तकनीक शामिल henryk górecki , karel husa , witold lutosławski  , Kazimierz Serocki , and Steven Stucky .
Sound mass  तकनीकों भी appear in the म्यूज़िक of  George Crumb ( Anon . n.d. ) .
Students attending a lecture on  रैखिक बीजगणित at the हेलसिंकी विश्वविद्यालयों of प्रौद्योगिकी
विद्यार्थियों in ग्रामीण सूडान  , 2002
A student is a learner , or  किसी जो attends an शैक्षणिक संस्था  .
In some  राष्ट्र , the अंग्रेज़ी पद ( or इसके cognate in another भाषा ) is सुरक्षित लिये those जो attend विश्वविद्यालयों , जबकि a schoolchild अंतर्गत the आयु of अठारह is पुकारा a pupil in अंग्रेज़ी ( or an समतुल्य  in other languages ) , although in the United States a person enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student .
In its  widest उपयोग , छात्र is प्रयुक्त लिये anyone  who is learning .
Australia is a continent  comprising मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया , तस्मानिया , नई गिनी  , Seram , possibly Timor , and neighbouring islands .
The continent is sometimes known in technical contexts by the names  sahul , australinea or meganesia , to फर्क  it from the Australian mainland .
It is the smallest of the seven traditional  महाद्वीपों in the अंग्रेज़ी धारणा  .
New Zealand is not  भाग of the महाद्वीप of ऑस्ट्रेलिया , लकिन of the पृथक , submerged महाद्वीप  of Zealandia .
zealandia और ऑस्ट्रेलिया हैं दोनो भाग of the wider  regions known as Australasia and Oceania .
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow seas  जिससे divide it into अनेक landmasses — the अराफुरा समुद्र और टोरेस जलसन्धि between मेनलैंड ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई गिनी , और बास जलसन्धि between मेनलैंड  Australia and Tasmania .
When sea levels were lower during the  pleistocene बर्फ आयु , सहित the पिछला glacial अधिकतम परिचय 18,000 bc , वे यहूद कनेक्ट  by dry land .
During the past ten  हजार सालो , उठती समुद्र स्तर overflowed the lowlands और अलग the महाद्वीप into आज 's low-lying arid to semi-arid  mainland and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania .
Geologically , a continent extends to  the किनारे of इसके महाद्वीपीय शेल्फ , so the now-separate आइलैंड्स  are considered part of the continent .
Due to the spread of  पशु , fungi और पौधे आरपार the सिंगल pleistocene landmass the पृथक lands  have a related biota .
Central Park is  nearly twice as बिग as the संसार 's second-smallest  country , Monaco .
Historically its  टंकी यहूद महत्वपूर्ण components of the नगर 's जल सप्लाई  .
Environmental issues in New  यॉर्क नगर हैं प्रभावित by the नगर 's आकार , घनत्व , abundant पब्लिक परिवहन अवसंरचना  , and location at the mouth of the Hudson River .
New York 's  जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व रै पर्यावरणीय  pros and cons .
It facilitates the  उच्चतम द्रव्यमान पारगमन उपयोग in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन भी concentrates  pollution .
गैसोलीन खपत in the नगर is at the रेट the नेशनल औसत थी in the 1920s , और ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions हैं a भिन्न  of the national average , at 7.1 metric tons per person per year , below San Francisco , at 11.2 metric tons , and the national average , at 24.5 metric tons .
New York City accounts  लिये तभी 1 % of संयुक्त राज्य ग्रीनहाउस गैस emissions जबकि आवास  2.7 % of its population .
In September  2012 , नई यॉर्क थी नामित the # 1 `` अमेरिका 's dirtiest नगर , '' by a travel+leisure readership सर्वेक्षण कि रेटेड the  environmental quality of 35 prominent cities in the United States .
Atlanta ( , stressed , locally ) is the capital of  और the सबसे populous नगर in the u.S. राज्य of जॉर्जिया , साथ an अनुमानित 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of 432,427  .
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the  अटलांटा महानगर क्षेत्रफल , घर to 5,457,831 लोगों और the नवीं largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल  in the United States .
Atlanta is the county seat  of fulton काउंटी , और a छोटी portion of the नगर extends eastward into dekalb काउंटी  .
Atlanta was established in  1837 at the चौराहे of दो रेलरोड लाइनों , और the नगर रोज़ इससे the राख of the सिविल युद्ध to become a नेशनल बीच  of commerce .
In the decades following the Civil Rights Movement , during  जिससे the नगर अर्जित a प्रतिष्ठा as `` too व्यस्त to नफ़रत '' लिये the प्रगतिशील दृश्य of इसके नागरिकों और नेताओ , अटलांटा attained  international prominence .
Atlanta is the primary transportation hub of  the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य , via राजमार्ग , रेलरोड , और एयर , साथ hartsfield–jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport being the world 's busiest airport since 1998 .
अटलांटा is माना an `` अल्फा ( - ) संसार नगर , '' और , साथ a सकल घरेलू  product of US $ 270 billion , Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world cities and sixth in the nation .
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse ,  प्रबल सेक्टर शामिल लोजिस्टिक्स , पेशेवर और कारोबार सेवाएं , मीडिया परिचालन  , government administration , and higher education .
Topographically , Atlanta is marked  by रोलिंग पहाड़ियाँ और घना पेड़ कवरेज  .
पुनरोद्धार of अटलांटा 's पड़ोस , initially spurred by the 1996 ओलंपिक , रै intensified  in the 21st century , altering the city 's demographics , politics , and culture .
A 1947 propaganda comic book published  by the catechetical गिल्ड शैक्षणिक  Society raising the specter of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of  disloyalty , subversion , or देशद्रोह बगैर उचित लिहाज़ लिये प्रमाण  .
It also means `` the practice of making unfair allegations or  using अन्यायपूर्ण investigative तकनीकों , विशेषकर in अनुक्रम to सीमित  dissent or political criticism . ''
The  पद रै इसके origins in the काल in the संयुक्त राज्य ज्ञात as the दूसरी रेड scare , स्थायी roughly इससे 1950 to 1956  and characterized by heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents .
Originally coined to  criticize the anti-communist pursuits of रिपब्लिकन u.s . सीनेटर जोसेफ मैकार्थी of विस्कॉन्सिन , `` mccarthyism '' जल्द  took on a broader meaning , describing the excesses of similar efforts .
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless , unsubstantiated accusations , as well  as demagogic हमले on the अक्षर or राष्ट्रभक्ति of राजनैतिक  adversaries .
During the McCarthy era , thousands of Americans were  अभियुक्त of होने साम्यवादियों or कम्युनिस्ट sympathizers और became the विषय of आक्रामक investigations  and questioning before government or private-industry panels , committees and agencies .
The primary targets  of ऐसे suspicions यहूद सरकारी कर्मचारी , those  in the entertainment industry , educators and union activists .
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable  प्रमाण , और the स्तर of threat posed by a व्यक्ति  's real or supposed leftist associations or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated .
Many people  suffered घाटा of नियुक्ति and/or विनाश of  their careers ; some even suffered imprisonment .
Most of these punishments came about through trial verdicts later overturned ,  कानून कि होता be घोषित असंवैधानिक , dismissals लिये कारण बाद घोषित illegal or actionable , or extra-legal प्रक्रियाओं कि होता आइये into  general disrepute .
The most famous examples of McCarthyism include the speeches , investigations , and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the Hollywood  ब्लैकलिस्ट , संबद्ध साथ hearings conducted by the हाउस un-american क्रियाएँ कमेटी ( huac ) ; और the विभिन्न anti-communist क्रियाएँ of the संघीय ब्यूरो of छानबीन ( एफबीआई ) अंतर्गत निदेशक J. एडगर हूवर .
mccarthyism थी a फैली सोशल और सांस्कृतिक घटना कि प्रभावित सब स्तर of समाज  and was the source of a great deal of debate and conflict in the United States .
Napoleon is a fictional character  और the प्रमुख विपक्षी in जार्ज ऑरवेल 's एनिमल  Farm .
जबकि he is at पहला a आम फार्म सुअर , he gets rid of स्नोबॉल  , another pig which shares the power .
He then takes advantage of the  पशु ' uprising विरूद्ध उनके मास्टर्स to आखिरकार become the tyrannical `` अध्यक्ष of एनिमल फार्म  , '' which he turns into a dictatorship .
वरुण लोगो
The NEPTUNE  कनाडा प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर वेधशाला कि  plugs directly into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed people to `` surf ''  the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग इससे लैब्स और विश्वविद्यालयों around  the world .
Along  साथ इसके सिस्टर प्रोजेक्ट , शुक्र , वरुण offers a अद्वितीय दृष्टिकोण  to ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists  have relied on infrequent जलयान क्रूज़ or space-based satellites to carry आउट उनके शोध , जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट  uses a remotely operated crawler .
The  coronet थी a full-size car इससे चकमा in the 1950s , initially the प्रभाग 's उच्चतम trim  line but , starting in 1955 , the lowest trim line .
in the 1960s , the नाम थी transferred to  Dodge 's mid-size entry .
ARM9 is an  भुजा वास्तुकला 32-bit  RISC CPU family .
राष्ट्रमंडल is a परंपरागत अंग्रेज़ी पद लिये a राजनैतिक  community founded for the common good .
historically , it रै sometimes महरूम synonymous  with `` republic `` .
More recently it has been used for fraternal  एसोसिएशन of कुछ sovereign राष्ट्र .
Most notably , the  राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र , an संघ primarily of पूर्व सदस्यों of the अंग्रेजों  Empire , is often referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth '' .
The September  11 हमले ( भी referred to as सितंबर 11 , सितंबर 11th , or 9/11 ) यहूद a श्रेणी of चार समन्वित आतंकवादी हमले  launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners were hijacked by 19  al-qaeda आतंकवादी so वे could be flown into इमारतें  in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes ,  अमरीकी एयरलाइंस उड़ान 11 और संयुक्त एयरलाइंस उड़ान 175 , यहूद क्रैश into the उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें , क्रमशः  , of the World Trade Center complex in New York City .
Within two hours , both towers  collapsed साथ मलबा और the resulting फ़ायर causing आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc  complex , as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures .
A third plane ,  अमरीकी एयरलाइंस उड़ान 77 , थी क्रैश into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त  States Department of Defense ) , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 , was targeted  at the संयुक्त राज्य कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , लकिन क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville , पेन्सिलवेनिया , बाद इसके यात्री  tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total , almost 3,000 people died in the attacks ,  सहित the 227 नागरिकों और 19 hijackers सवार the चार planes  .
suspicion जल्दी गिरी  on al-Qaeda .
हालांकि the समूह 's नेता , ओसामा बिन लादेन , initially अस्वीकृत कोई भागीदारी , in 2004  he claimed responsibility for the attacks .
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of  इसराईल , the उपस्थिति of u.S. सैनिकों in सऊदी अरब , और प्रतिबंधों  against Iraq as motives for the attacks .
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on  आतंक और आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान to depose the तालिबान , जिससे  had harbored al-Qaeda .
Many countries strengthened their  anti-terrorism विधान और विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन  powers .
Having evaded capture for years , bin  लादेन थी स्तिथ और मारे by u.S. शक्तियां in may  2011 .
The destruction of the Twin Towers  और अन्य गुण caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of निम्नतर मैनहटन  and had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site was completed in  may 2002 , और the प्रस्तुतीकरण थी repaired भीतर a साल  .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the National September 11  मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क , the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल , और the उड़ान 93 नेशनल मेमोरियल in पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
After a lengthy delay , the One  संसार व्यापार बीच is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त  at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013 .
Crater  झील नेशनल पार्क is a संयुक्त राज्य नेशनल पार्क  located in southern Oregon .
स्थापित in 1902 , crater झील नेशनल पार्क is the पांचवां oldest नेशनल पार्क in the संयुक्त राज्य  and the only one in the state of Oregon .
the पार्क encompasses the caldera of crater झील , a remnant of a नष्ट ज्वालामुखी  , Mount Mazama , and the surrounding hills and forests .
The lake is deep at its deepest point , which  makes it the deepest झील in the संयुक्त राज्य , the दूसरी deepest  in North America and the ninth deepest in the world .
Crater  झील is प्रायः referred to as the सातवाँ deepest झील in the संसार , लकिन इस पूर्व लिस्टिंग excludes the लगभग गहराई of subglacial झील वोस्तोक in अंटार्कटिक , जिससे resides अंतर्गत nearly of बर्फ  , and the recent report of a maximum depth for Lake O'Higgins /San Martin , located on the border of Chile and Argentina .
However , when comparing its average depth of to the average depth of  अन्य गहन झीलों , crater झील becomes the deepest in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध और the तीसरा deepest in the  world .
The impressive average  गहराई of इस volcanic झील is due to the nearly सममित गहन caldera formed 7,700 सालो पहले दौरान the हिंसक climactic  eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range .
The  caldera रिम सीमाएँ  in elevation from .
The  संयुक्त राज्य geological सर्वेक्षण benchmarked  elevation of the lake surface itself is .
इस नेशनल  Park encompasses .
crater झील रै no स्ट्रीम बहती  into or out of it .
All  जल कि enters the झील is आखिरकार  lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage .
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue hue , and  the झील is re-filled entirely इससे सीधा वर्षण in the रूप of हिम और  rain .
The  परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य is the उच्चतम  court in the United States .
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate jurisdiction over all federal courts and  over राज्य अदालत मामले involving मुद्दे of संघीय विधि ,  and original jurisdiction over a small range of cases .
the अदालत , जिससे meets in the संयुक्त राज्य परम् अदालत भवन in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , consists  of a chief justice and eight associate justices who are nominated by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate .
Once appointed , justices have life tenure unless they  इस्तीफा , रिटायर , or हैं removed बाद महाभियोग  .
Conroe is the seat of  मोंटगोमरी काउंटी और जलप्रपात भीतर the महानगर  area .
It is located  परिचय उत्तर of ह्यूस्टन .
As of July 2011 , the city  जनसांख्यिकी थी 58,973 , up इससे 36,811  in 2000 .
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of  the latter दिन संत गति , जिससे adherents मानना contains कृतियाँ of प्राचीन नबियों जो जिया on  the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421 .
It was first published in March 1830 by  जोसेफ स्मिथ as the किताब of mormon : an खाता लिखा by the हाथ of mormon upon प्लेटों  Taken from the Plates of Nephi .
According to Smith 's account , and also according to the book 's narrative , the Book of  mormon थी originally लिखा in वरना अनजान वर्ण referred to as `` reformed मिश्र `` engraved on सुनहरी प्लेटों  .
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book , a man named  moroni , दफ्न it in a हिल in present-day नई यॉर्क और तब लौटे to धरती in 1827 as an देवदूत , revealing the स्थान of the किताब to स्मिथ और instructing उसे to अनुवाद और disseminate it as प्रमाण  of the restoration of Christ 's true church in the latter days .
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects  ऐसे as the पतन of आदम और संध्या , the प्रकृति of the प्रायश्चित , eschatology , मोचन इससे शारीरिक और आध्यात्मिक मौत , और  the organization of the latter-day church .
The pivotal  इवेंट of the किताब is an रूप of यीशु मसीह to the americas  shortly after his resurrection .
The Book of Mormon is  the earliest of the अद्वितीय कृतियाँ of the latter दिन संत गति , the denominations  of which typically regard the text not only as scripture but also as a historical record of God 's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas .
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books , titled  बाद the individuals नामित as प्राथमिक लेखक और , in सबसे संस्करण  , divided into chapters and verses .
It is written in English , very similar to the Early  आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी भाषाई स्टाइल of the किंग जेम्स संस्करण of the बाइबल , और रै चूंकि महरूम fully or partially अनूदित  into 108 languages .
An enlisted rank ( also known as an enlisted grade or  आयोजिक रेट ) is , in सबसे militaries , कोई रैंक नीचे कि of a commissioned अधिकारी or वारंट  officer .
The term  can भी be समावेशी of non-commissioned  officers .
In most cases , enlisted service  कर्मियों perform कार्य विशिष्ट to उनके अपना occupational specialty , as opposed to the  more generalized command responsibilities of commissioned officers .
`` What a  अद्भुत संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा by bob thiele (  as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss .
It was first  अंकित by लुई आर्मस्ट्रांग और released  as a single in 1967 .
Thiele and Weiss  यहूद दोनो prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a निर्माता  and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's  रिकॉर्डिंग थी inducted in the ग्रैमी हॉल of कीर्ति  in 1999 .
The publishing for this  सोंग is नियंत्रित by मेमोरी लेन म्यूज़िक समूह  , Carlin Music Corp. , and Bug Music , Inc .
1908 poster  विज्ञापन gaumont 's ध्वनि films  .
The Chronomégaphone , designed for  विशाल हॉल , employed संपीडित एयर to amplify the अंकित  sound .
A sound  फिल्मी is a गति चित्र साथ synchronized ध्वनि , or ध्वनि technologically  coupled to image , as opposed to a silent film .
The  पहला ज्ञात पब्लिक प्रदर्शनी of प्रक्षिप्त ध्वनि films took प्लेस in पेरिस in 1900 , लकिन दशकों  would pass before sound motion pictures were made commercially practical .
Reliable synchronization was difficult to achieve  साथ the जल्दी sound-on-disc प्रणालियों , और प्रवर्धन और रिकॉर्डिंग विशेषता यहूद भी  inadequate .
Innovations in sound-on-film  led to the पहला वाणिज्यिक स्क्रीनिंग of छोटी गति तस्वीरें using the प्रौद्योगिकी ,  which took place in 1923 .
The primary steps in the  व्यावसायीकरण of ध्वनि सिनेमा यहूद लिया in the mid-  to late 1920s .
At first , the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '' , or `` talkies  '' —were exclusively शॉर्ट्स ; the earliest feature-length फिल्मों साथ अंकित ध्वनि शामिल तभी म्यूज़िक और प्रभाव  .
The first feature film originally  प्रस्तुत as a talkie थी the जैज़ सिंगर , released in  October 1927 .
A major hit ,  it थी बना साथ vitaphone , the अग्रणी ब्रांड of sound-on-disc  technology .
Sound-on-film , however ,  होता जल्द become the मानक लिये  talking pictures .
By the  जल्दी 1930s , the टॉकीज़  were a global phenomenon .
In the United States , they helped secure Hollywood 's position  as एक of the संसार 's सबसे शक्तिशाली cultural/commercial प्रणालियों ( देखिए सिनेमा of the संयुक्त  States ) .
In Europe ( and , to a lesser degree  , elsewhere ) the नई विकास थी treated साथ suspicion by अनेक filmmakers और आलोचकों , जो चिंतित  that a focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema .
In Japan , where the popular film tradition integrated  मूक फिल्म और सजीव गायन प्रदर्शन , talking तस्वीरें यहूद slow to लो  root .
In India , sound was the  transformative तत्व कि led to the रैपिड विस्तार of the स्वदेश 's फिल्मी industry—the  most productive such industry in the world since the early 1960s .
अफ़्रीकी लोगों हैं natives or निवासियों of अफ़्रीकी और  people of African descent .
The Australian Recording Industry Association  म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार ( commonly ज्ञात as aria म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार or aria पुरस्कार ) is an सालाना श्रेणी of पुरस्कार नाइट्स celebrating  the Australian music industry , put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ) .
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( these are what is usually being  referred to as `` the aria पुरस्कार '' ) as खूब as ठीक कला पुरस्कार और कारीगर पुरस्कार ( आयोजित separately इससे 2004 ) , आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और aria हॉल of  Fame – held separately from 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011 .
For 2010  , aria introduced पब्लिक voted पुरस्कार लिये  the first time .
Winning , or even being nominated for , an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist , and usually increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005 , for  उदाहरण , बाद बेन ली जीती तीन पुरस्कार , उसके एल्बम जाग is the नई नींद कूद इससे no . 31 to no . 5 in the aria चार्ट , इसके उच्चतम स्थिति  .
For-profit education ( also known as the education services industry  or मालिकाना शिक्षा ) refers to शैक्षणिक संस्थानों संचालित by निजी , लाभ -seeking व्यवसायों  .
There are three types  of for-profit स्कूलों  .
One type is  ज्ञात as an शैक्षणिक प्रबन्धन संगठन ( भावनाएं ) , और ये हैं  primary and secondary educational institutions .
EMOs work with school districts or  चार्टर स्कूलों , using पब्लिक निधि to  finance operations .
The majority of for-profit  स्कूलों in the k–12 सेक्टर in अमेरिका फलन as emos , और have grown  in number in the mid-2000s .
The other major  श्रेणी of for-profit स्कूलों हैं post-secondary संस्थानों जिससे operate  as businesses , receiving fees from each student they enroll .
A third type of for-profit schools , which  is कम प्रचलित in the संयुक्त राज्य , हैं k–12 स्कूलों जिससे  operate as businesses .
EMOs function differently from charter schools created in order to carry out a  particular शिक्षण pedagogy ; सबसे चार्टर स्कूलों हैं mission-oriented , जबकि emos और अन्य for-profit  institutions are market-oriented .
While supporters argue that  the लाभ motive encourages दक्षता , इस व्यवस्था रै भी drawn विवाद  and criticism .
Kevin Carey , director of the education policy program of the New American Foundation said in a 2010 column  in the वृत्तान्त of उच्चतर शिक्षा कि `` for-profits मौजूद in विशाल भाग to फिक्स शैक्षणिक मार्केट असफलताओं बाएँ by परंपरागत संस्थानों , और वे लाभ  by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore . ''
He  भी विख्यात कि `` वहीँ 's no शक कि the worst for-profits हैं निर्मम exploiting  the commodified college degree .
But they did  n't commodify it in the पहला  place . ''
Amendment XXII in the  नेशनल अभिलेख
The Twenty-second  amendment of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान सेट a पद सीमा लिये चुनाव  to the office of President of the United States .
Congress passed the  amendment on कूच 21  , 1947 .
It was  ratified by the आवश्यक क्रमांक of राज्य on फ़रवरी  27 , 1951 .
This is an  एपीसोड मार्गदर्शिका लिये the दुश्मनी श्रेणी  Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo .
This list  encompasses प्रत्येक एपीसोड , शुरूआत साथ the असली japanese-language शीर्षक as वे aired on tv असाही , followed by the  title used in the English dubbed version airing in the United States on Cartoon Network .
A short  सारांश होगा follow , introducing the एपीसोड और referring to कुछ of the ढकोसला , लकिन  not giving the complete summaries to the episodes .
सब names और कुछ of the सन्दर्भ होगा be the ones प्रयुक्त इससे  the English-language version to avoid confusion .
Japanese names may be presented  बाद the डब नाम in कोष्ठक .
This article is about the  पब्लिक पार्क in नई यॉर्क नगर .
For other uses , see  सेंट्रल पार्क ( बहुविकल्पी )  .
Central Park  is a पब्लिक पार्क at the बीच of मैनहटन in नई  York City .
The park initially opened  in 1857 , on of city-owned जमीन ( it is 843 एकड़  today ) .
In 1858 , Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux  जीती a डिज़ाइन प्रतियोगिता to improve और विस्तार the पार्क साथ  a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan .
Construction began  the वही साल , जारी दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध , और थी समाप्त  in 1873 .
सेंट्रल पार्क is the सबसे visited शहरी पार्क  in the United States .
Designated a National Historic Landmark in 1962 , the park is  फिलहाल प्रबंधित by the सेंट्रल पार्क conservancy अंतर्गत अनुबंध साथ the नगर सरकारी  .
The  conservancy is a non-profit संगठन कि contributes 83.5 % of सेंट्रल पार्क 's $ 37.5 लाख सालाना बजट  , and employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff .
TracFone Wireless , Inc. is a prepaid wireless service provider operating in the United States including  प्यूर्टो रीको और the us वर्जिन आइलैंड्स और is a subsidiary of मैक्सिको 's largest दूरसंचार  provider , América Móvil .
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ) ,  tracfone बेतार holds अनेक समझौतों साथ the us largest बेतार दूरसंचार कंपनियाँ to utilize उनके संजाल  to provide service including those of Verizon , AT & T , Sprint , and T-Mobile .
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under  अनेक ब्रांड्स जिससे प्रत्येक भी प्रस्ताव distinctive सेवा योजनाएँ , the ब्रांड्स शामिल tracfone , net10 बेतार , सीधा बात , safelink बेतार  , Telcel América and Simple Mobile .
A  पकड़ें dredge
Dredging is an excavation  कार्यकलाप or आपरेशन प्रायः carried आउट at तनिक partly भाटे , in उथले समंदर or भैस जल क्षेत्रों साथ the purpose of महफ़िल  up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location .
This  तकनीक is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to रखना जलमार्गों  navigable .
It is also  प्रयुक्त as a रास्ता to replenish बालू on कुछ पब्लिक समुद्रतट  , where sand has been lost because of coastal erosion .
Dredging is also  प्रयुक्त as a तकनीक लिये फ़िशिंग लिये निश्चित प्रजाति of खाद्य क्लेम और केकड़े  , see fishing dredge .
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the  americas ) is कोई यंत्र , यंत्र , or पोत कि is प्रयुक्त to excavate  and remove material from the bottom of a body of water .
For example , a scoop attached to the end of a rope or  ध्रुव by जिससे a man can चित्रण sediments up इससे the नीचे of a तालाब is a dredger  .
Developing  इस विचार further , a motorized क्रेन equipped साथ a खीचें बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber  ) that is used to scoop material from the bottom of a body of water is also a dredger .
The crane could be located  on the बैंको , or शायद आरोहित on a barge  .
If the crane is  आरोहित on a barge , the संपूर्ण पोत  is referred to as a dredger .
The process of dredging creates  spoils ( excess सामग्री ) , जिससे हैं carried दूर इससे the  dredged area .
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or other purposes ( usually construction-related ) , and  रै भी historically निभाई a significant भूमिका in सुनहरा खनन  .
Dredging can create  disturbance in जलीय ecosystems , प्रायः साथ प्रतिकूल  impacts .
Cleveland Volcano in the  aleutian आइलैंड्स of अलास्का photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस  Station , May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km  दौरान the climactic फटना at माउंट pinatubo , फिलीपीन in  1991 .
A volcano is an opening , or rupture , in a planet 's surface or crust , which allows  hot मैग्मा , volcanic राख और गैसों to एस्केप इससे the मैग्मा कक्ष नीचे the सतह  .
ज्वालामुखी हैं generally मिला जहाँ tectonic  plates are diverging or converging .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of  ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत रिंग of आग रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused  by convergent tectonic plates coming together .
By  कंट्रास्ट , ज्वालामुखी हैं प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ  two tectonic plates slide past one another .
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of  the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of प्लेटों , e.g. , in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी दरार , the कुएं gray-clearwater  volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
इस प्रकार of volcanism जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of  `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from plate boundaries  रै भी महरूम समझाया as mantle  plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are postulated to arise from  upwelling diapirs साथ मैग्मा इससे the core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km गहन in the  Earth .
Erupting  ज्वालामुखी can पोज़ अनेक जोखिमों , नहीं तभी in  the immediate vicinity of the eruption .
Volcanic ash can  be a threat to वायुयान , in particular those साथ जेट इंजन जहाँ राख अणु  can be melted by the high operating temperature .
Large  eruptions can affect तापमान as राख और droplets of sulfuric एसिड अस्पष्ट the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल  ; however , they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically ,  so-called volcanic सर्दियों have caused अनर्थकारी  famines .
बेनेडिक्ट अर्नाल्ड ( जून 14 , 1801 ) थी a सामान्य दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध  who originally fought for the American Continental Army but defected to the British Army .
While a general on the American side , he obtained  कमांड of the फोर्ट at वेस्ट पाइंट , नई यॉर्क , और नियोजित to आत्मसमर्पण  it to the British forces .
After the  योजना थी उजागर in सितंबर 1780 , he थी commissioned into  the British Army as a brigadier general .
Born in Connecticut , Arnold  थी a व्यापारी ऑपरेटिंग जहाजों on the अटलांटिक समंदर जब  the war broke out in 1775 .
After joining the growing  फौज बाहर बोस्टन , he विशिष्ट खुद through अधिनियमों of प्रज्ञा  and bravery .
His actions included the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775 , defensive and delaying  tactics despite खोने the बैटल of valcour द्वीप on झील champlain in 1776 , the बैटल of ridgefield , कनेक्टिकट ( बाद जिससे he थी प्रचारित to प्रमुख सामान्य ) , परिचालन  in relief of the Siege of Fort Stanwix , and key actions during the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777 , in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years .
Despite Arnold 's successes ,  he थी passed over लिये प्रमोशन by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस जबकि अन्य अधिकारियों claimed क्रेडिट  for some of his accomplishments .
adversaries in सैन्य और राजनैतिक वृत्त brought आरोप of भ्रष्टाचार or अन्य malfeasance , लकिन सबसे प्रायः he थी  acquitted in formal inquiries .
Congress investigated his accounts and found he was indebted to  कॉंग्रेस बाद बिता much of उसके अपना धन  on the war effort .
Frustrated and bitter ,  अर्नाल्ड decided to बदलें पहलू in 1779 , और खोली रहस्य negotiations साथ the अंग्रेजों  .
In July 1780 , he was offered , continued  to pursue और थी awarded कमांड of वेस्ट पाइंट  .
Arnold 's scheme to surrender the  फोर्ट to the अंग्रेजों थी उजागर जब अमरीकी शक्तियां captured अंग्रेजों प्रमुख जॉन  André carrying papers that revealed the plot .
Upon learning of André 's capture , Arnold fled down the Hudson River to the British  sloop-of-war गिद्ध , narrowly बचने कैप्चर by the शक्तियां of जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , जो था महरूम alerted  to the plot .
Arnold  प्राप्त a आयोग as a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य in the अंग्रेजों फौज , an  annual pension of £360 , and a lump sum of over £6,000 .
He led British forces on raids in  वर्जिनिया , और विरूद्ध नई लंदन और groton , कनेक्टिकट , पहले the युद्ध effectively  ended with the American victory at Yorktown .
In the winter of 1782 ,  अर्नाल्ड स्थानांतरित to लंदन साथ उसके दूसरी बीवी , मार्गरेट  `` Peggy '' Shippen Arnold .
He was well received by  किंग जार्ज iii और the tories लकिन खीझ  upon by the Whigs .
In 1787 , he returned to the merchant business  साथ उसके बेटे रिचर्ड और हेनरी in संत जॉन , नई  Brunswick .
He returned to London to settle  permanently in 1791 , जहाँ he died टेन सालो  later .
Because of the way he changed sides , his  नाम जल्दी became a in the संयुक्त  States for treason or betrayal .
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the  अस्पष्ट प्रकृति of कुछ of the memorials कि have महरूम  placed in his honor .
Curtis  montague schilling ( born नवम्बर 14 , 1966 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी  Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher and Video Game developer .
He helped  सीसे the फिलाडेल्फिया फ़िलीज़ to the संसार श्रेणी in और जीती संसार श्रेणी  championships in with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with the Boston Red Sox .
Schilling retired  साथ a करियर postseason रिकार्ड  of 11–2 .
His .846 postseason winning  प्रतिशत is a major-league रिकार्ड among pitchers साथ at तनिक 10 निर्णय  .
After retiring  , he संस्थापित ग्रीन दानव  Games which was renamed 38 Studios .
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur :  हिसाब in फ़रवरी 2012 , लकिन बस तीन महीने बाद , schilling रखी बंद उसके संपूर्ण स्टाफ amid कठोर वित्तीय  troubles that resulted in the company missing payroll the previous week .
Star Wars is an  अमरीकी एपिक स्पेस ओपेरा मताधिकार केन्द्रित on a फिल्मी श्रेणी निर्मित  by George Lucas .
The film series has spawned a media franchise outside the film series called the  विस्तारित ब्रह्मांड सहित किताबे , टेलीविज़न श्रेणी , कंप्यूटर और वीडियो खेल , और कॉमिक किताबे  .
These supplements to the  फिल्मी trilogies have resulted in significant विकास of the श्रेणी ' fictional ब्रह्मांड  .
These media kept  the मताधिकार क्रियाशील in the अंतरिम  between the film trilogies .
The franchise  portrays a आकाशगंगा कि is वर्णित as दूर , दूर दूर in  the distant past .
It commonly portrays  जेडी as a प्रतिनिधित्व of शुभ , in विरोध साथ the सिथ , उनके दुष्ट  counterpart .
Their weapon of choice , the  lightsaber , is commonly पहचाना in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति .
The fictional universe also contains many themes  , विशेषकर प्रभाव of दर्शनशास्त्र और धर्म  .
The first film in the series was originally released on May 25 , 1977 , under the title Star Wars , by 20th  सदी फॉक्स , और became a विश्वव्यापी पॉप संस्कृति घटना , followed by दो सिक्वेल , released  at three-year intervals .
Sixteen years after the release of the  त्रयी 's फाइनल फिल्मी , the पहला in a नई प्रीक्वेल  trilogy of films was released .
The three prequel films were also released at three-year intervals , with the  फाइनल फिल्मी of the त्रयी released on may 19 ,  2005 .
In October 2012 , The Walt Disney Company acquired  लुकासफ़िल्म लिये $ 4.05 अरब और घोषित कि it होता उपज तीन नई films , साथ the पहला फिल्मी , स्टार युद्धों एपीसोड  VII , planned for release in 2015 .
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution  अधिकारों to the पहला दो स्टार युद्धों trilogies , owning स्थाई अधिकारों लिये the असली फिल्मी एपीसोड iv : a नई आशा , जबकि पकड़कर the अधिकारों to एपीसोड i–iii ,  V and VI until May 2020 .
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly  धनात्मक , साथ the पिछला फिल्मी होने माना the weakest , जबकि the प्रीक्वेल त्रयी प्राप्त a अधिक मिश्रित प्रतिक्रिया , साथ  most of the praise being for the final movie , according to most review aggregator websites .
सब छह of the प्रमुख films in the श्रेणी यहूद  also nominated for or won Academy Awards .
All of the main films have been box office successes , with the overall box office  आय उत्पन्न by the स्टार युद्धों films ( सहित the नाट्य स्टार युद्धों : the क्लोन युद्धों ) totalling $ 4.49 अरब  , making it the third-highest-grossing film series .
The  कामयाबी रै भी led to अनेक re-releases  in theaters for the series .
plateletpheresis ( अधिक accurately पुकारा thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis , हालांकि ये names हैं rarely प्रयुक्त ) is the प्रक्रम of collecting thrombocytes , अधिक commonly  called platelets , a component of blood involved in blood clotting .
The term specifically refers to the method  of collecting the प्लेटलेट्स , जिससे is performed by a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in रक्त दान  that separates the platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor .
Platelet transfusion can be a  life-saving कार्यविधि in preventing or treating गंभीर जटिलताओं इससे bleeding और hemorrhage in मरीजों जो have विकार manifesting  as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction .
This process may also be  प्रयुक्त therapeutically to दावत विकार resulting in  extraordinarily high platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis .
In computer networking , a port is an  application-specific or process-specific तन्त्र construct सेवारत as a संचार endpoint  in a computer 's host operating system .
A port is associated with an IP address of the  मेजबान , as खूब as the प्रकार of प्रोटोकॉल प्रयुक्त लिये संचार  .
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes running on a single  कंप्यूटर और thereby enable उन्हें to share a सिंगल शारीरिक कनेक्शन to a packet-switched  network like the Internet .
The protocols that primarily use ports are the Transport Layer  प्रोटोकॉल , ऐसे as the हस्तांतरण कंट्रोल प्रोटोकॉल ( टीसीपी ) और the उपयोक्ता datagram प्रोटोकॉल ( यूडीपी ) of the  Internet Protocol Suite .
a बंदरगाहों is पहचाना लिये प्रत्येक पता और प्रोटोकॉल by a 16-bit  number , commonly known as the port number .
The port number , added to a computer 's IP  पता , completes the गंतव्य पता लिये a संचार  session .
That is , data packets are routed across the network to a specific  गंतव्य ip पता , और तब , upon reaching the गंतव्य कंप्यूटर , हैं further routed to the विशिष्ट  process bound to the destination port number .
Note that it is the combination of IP address and port number  साथ कि जरूर be globally अद्वितीय .
Thus , different IP addresses or protocols may use the same port  क्रमांक लिये संचार ; e.g. , on a दिए मेजबान or इंटरफ़ेस यूडीपी और टीसीपी may उपयोग the वही बंदरगाहों क्रमांक , or on a मेजबान साथ दो अंतरफलक , दोनो पता may be संबद्ध  with a port having the same number .
Of the thousands of enumerated ports  , परिचय 250 well-known पोर्ट हैं सुरक्षित by सम्मेलन to पहचानो  specific service types on a host .
In the client-server model of application architecture , ports are used to provide a multiplexing service on each server-side port  क्रमांक कि संजाल क्लाइंट कनेक्ट to लिये सेवा दीक्षा , बाद जिससे संचार  can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers .
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in  उत्तरपश्चिम अरकंसास , सहित the शहरों of फोर्ट स्मिथ , fayetteville , springdale , रोजर्स और bentonville : the दूसरी , तीसरा , चौथी , आठवीं और tenth-largest  cities in the state , respectively .
It  थी निर्मित in 2002 in a विभाजित  from area code 501 .
Area code 479 serves Benton , Carroll ( split  साथ क्षेत्रफल कोड 870 ) , क्रॉफर्ड , फ्रैंकलिन , जॉनसन , लोगन , मैडिसन  , Polk , Pope , Scott , Sebastian , Washington and Yell Counties in Arkansas .
Arraignment is a formal  पढना of a दण्ड चार्जिंग दस्तावेज़ in the उपस्थिति of the प्रतिवादी to inform the प्रतिवादी  of the charges against him or her .
In response to arraignment ,  the अभियुक्त is अपेक्षित to डालें  a plea .
Acceptable pleas vary  among jurisdictions , लकिन वे generally शामिल `` अपराधी '' , `` नहीं अपराधी '' , और the peremptory pleas ( or  pleas in bar ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed .
Pleas of ``  nolo contendere `` ( no प्रतियोगिता ) और the `` alford दलील  `` are allowed in some circumstances .
In England , Wales , Northern Ireland and Australia , arraignment is  the पहला of ग्यारह चरण in a दण्ड विचारण , और involves the क्लर्क of the अदालत  reading out the indictment .
The defendant is asked whether  he or वो pleads अपराधी or नहीं अपराधी  to each charge .
In  संघीय न्यायालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य , arraignment  takes place in two stages .
The first  is पुकारा the आरंभिक arraignment और जरूर लो प्लेस भीतर 48 घंटों of an व्यक्तिगत 's गिरफ़्तार , 72 घंटों if the व्यक्तिगत थी गिरफ्तार on  the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday .
During this arraignment the defendant is informed  of the स्थगित विधिक आरोप और is सूचित of उसके or उसके सही to retain  counsel .
The presiding judge  भी decides at कया राशि ,  if any , to set bail .
During the second arraignment , a post-indictment arraignment or PIA ,  the प्रतिवादी is अनुमत to डालें a दलील  .
Geoffrey Chaucer ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ) , known as the Father of English literature ,  is widely माना the महानतम अंग्रेज़ी कवि of the मध्य आयु और थी the पहला कवि to have महरूम दफ्न  in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey .
While he achieved fame during his lifetime as an author , philosopher , alchemist and astronomer ,  composing a वैज्ञानिक treatise on the astrolabe लिये उसके टेन year-old बेटे लुईस , चासर भी कायम an क्रियाशील करियर in the सिविल सेवा as  a bureaucrat , courtier and diplomat .
Among his many works , which include The Book of the Duchess , the House of Fame , the Legend  of शुभ महिलाओं और troilus और criseyde , he is बेहतरीन ज्ञात आज लिये the canterbury किस्से .
Chaucer is a crucial figure in  विकासशील the legitimacy of the देशी , मध्य अंग्रेज़ी , at a समय जब the  dominant literary languages in England were French and Latin .
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major  blizzard कि प्रभावित उत्तरी इलिनोइस और उत्तरपश्चिम इंडियाना , u.S.  on January 13 – January 14 , 1979 .
of snow fell on January  13 अलोन , सेटिंग a नई रिकार्ड लिये हिम in एक पंचांग  day .
By  the समाप्त of जनवरी 14 ,  of snow had fallen .
The  ठंडा मौसम और हिमपात throughout the बाकी of जनवरी  and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system .
commuters भीड़ onto cta बसें , जल्दी overwhelming क्षमता , resulting in usual  bus commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours .
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the streets , the  overcrowded बसें यहूद obliged to लो numerous detours , adding  additional time to the commute .
Deployment of plows was  significantly विलम्बित और जब वे आखिरकार  appeared they struggled to keep up with the snowfall .
Much of the  हिम remained unremoved throughout the अगला 2 महीने  , causing ongoing public transit delays and significant problems with trash collection .
The  नगर 's अपर्याप्त जवाब to the blizzard थी blamed primarily on महापौर माइकल bilandic , जो था assumed the पोस्ट  after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley .
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne , Bilandic 's main political rival in  the लोकतांत्रिक प्राथमिक ( जो था previously worked साथ bilandic in the डाले प्रशासन और महरूम fired by bilandic जब the दो could नहीं मिलेंगी साथ ) , capitalized on इस और गई on to शिकस्त  Bilandic in the February 27 primary .
The 12-hour  क्लॉक is a समय सम्मेलन in जिससे the 24 घंटों of the दिन हैं विभाजित into दो अवधि : a.m. ( इससे the लैटिन ante meridiem , अर्थ  `` before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem , `` after midday '' ) .
Each period  consists of 12 घंटों गिने : 12 ( एक्टिंग as शून्य ) , 1 , 2 , 3  , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , and 11 .
The 12-hour clock was developed  over समय इससे the mid-second मिलेनियम bc to the 16th सदी  AD .
Health spending per capita , in $ US  ppp-adjusted , साथ the us और कनाडा compared  amongst other first world nations .
Comparison of  the स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों in कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य हैं प्रायः बना by सरकारी  , public health and public policy analysts .
The two  देशों था समान स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों पहले कनाडा reformed  its system in the 1960s and 1970s .
The United States spends much  अधिक धन on स्वास्थ्य परवाह than कनाडा , on दोनो a per-capita आधार और as a प्रतिशत of जीडीपी  .
In 2006 , per-capita  बिता लिये स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कनाडा थी us $ 3,678 ; in the  U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The U.S. spent 15.3 % of GDP  on स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कि साल ; कनाडा खर्च 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of  स्वास्थ्य परवाह बिता in कनाडा थी financed  by government , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending , and U.S. government expenditure on  स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस अंतर्गत 83 % of कुल कनाडाई बिता ( पब्लिक और निजी ) हालांकि ये आंकडे  do n't take into account population differences .
Studies have  आइये to अलग conclusions परिचय the परिणाम of इस  disparity in spending .
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and  the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल मिला कि `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the  United States , but differences are not consistent . ''
Life expectancy is longer in Canada , and its infant mortality rate is  निम्नतर than कि of the u.S. , लकिन वहीँ is बहस परिचय the underlying कल्याणकारी  of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service  प्रदर्शन '' , जिससे प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट माप of उपलब्धि in the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य , the वितरण of स्वास्थ्य , the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय योगदान  '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US ``  responsiveness '' , or विशेषता of सेवा लिये individuals receiving उपचार  , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup  और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining जिससे healthcare प्रणाली is श्रेष्ठ  .
The WHO 's  पढ़ाई विधि यहूद criticized by  some analyses .
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care  , assuming the जनसांख्यिकी मेकअप is समान , a हाल रपट by the congressional शोध सेवा carefully summarizes कुछ हाल आंकड़ा  and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
Tarantulas comprise a group  of प्रायः बालदार और बहुत विशाल arachnids belonging to the theraphosidae परिवार  of spiders , of which approximately 900 species have been identified .
This article  तभी describes सदस्यों of theraphosidae , हालांकि कुछ अन्य  members of the same suborder are commonly referred to as `` tarantulas '' .
Most species of tarantulas are not dangerous to  इंसानो , और कुछ प्रजाति have become लोकप्रिय in the exotic पालतु व्यापार .
The  ton is a ईकाई of माप  .
It has a long history and has acquired  a क्रमांक of meanings और उपयोग over the  years .
It is used principally as a  ईकाई of वज़न , और as a ईकाई of आवाज़  .
It can also  be प्रयुक्त as a माप of उर्जा , लिये ट्रक वर्गीकरण  , or as a colloquial term .
It is  निकला इससे the tun , the पद लागू to a बैरल  of the largest size .
इस could contain a आवाज़ between 210 और 256 गैलन ( 800 to 1000 l ) , जिससे could तौल around  2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space .
In the United  किंगडम the ton is पारिभाषित as ( avoirdupois पाउंड )  .
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a  कार्यक्रम of metrication और धीरे introduced मीट्रिक इकाई , सहित the टन ( मीट्रिक ton ) , a  non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg .
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from  उपयोग लिये व्यापार अनेक इकाई और शर्तें , सहित the ton और the पद `` मीट्रिक ton  '' for `` tonne ''
In the  संयुक्त राज्य और formerly कनाडा a ton  is defined to be .
Where confusion is possible , the  2240 lb ton is पुकारा `` long ton `` और the 2000 lb ton `` छोटी ton `` ; the टन is विशिष्ट  by its spelling , but usually pronounced the same as ton , hence the US term `` metric ton '' .
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be pronounced (  /ˈtʌnɪ/ ) , or `` मीट्रिक ton '' जब it is जरुरी to मेक the भेद  .
Where accuracy is required the correct term  जरूर be प्रयुक्त , लकिन लिये अनेक उद्देश्य इस is नहीं जरुरी : the मीट्रिक और  long tons differ by only 1.6 % , and the short ton is within 11 % of both .
The ton is the heaviest unit of  वज़न referred to in colloquial वाक .
The term `` ton '' is  भी प्रयुक्त to refer to a क्रमांक of इकाई of आवाज़  , ranging from in capacity .
It can  भी be प्रयुक्त as a ईकाई of उर्जा , expressed as an समतुल्य  of coal burnt , TNT detonated , or in refrigeration , ice melted .
In Britain ,  ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली in अनेक contexts  to mean `` 100 '' .
As a cost or a speed ,  a ton is widely समझा to be £100 or  100 mph .
The  स्टेनली कप ( ) is the चैंपियनशिप ट्रॉफी awarded annually to the नेशनल हॉकी लीग  ( NHL ) playoff winner after the conclusion of the Stanley Cup Finals .
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup , the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of Preston ,  then- राज्यपाल सामान्य of कनाडा , जो awarded it to कनाडा 's top-ranking amateur बर्फ हॉकी क्लबों  , which the entire Stanley family supported , with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game .
The first Cup was  awarded in 1893 to मॉन्ट्रियल hc  .
In 1915 , the two professional ice hockey organizations , the  नेशनल हॉकी संघ ( नह ) और the प्रशांत coast हॉकी संघ ( pcha ) , पहुँचे a सज्जनों 's अनुबंध in जिससे उनके संबंधित champions होता फेस प्रत्येक अन्य लिये  the Stanley Cup .
बाद a श्रेणी of लीग मर्जर और फोल्ड , the स्टेनली `` प्रस्तुतीकरण कप '' थी स्थापित  as the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship prize in 1947 .
There are actually three Stanley Cups : the original bowl of  the `` डोमिनियन हॉकी चुनौती कप '' , the सत्यापित `` प्रस्तुतीकरण कप ''  , and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame .
The  एनएचएल रै कायम प्रभावी कंट्रोल over दोनो the ट्रॉफी  itself and its associated trademarks .
Nevertheless , the NHL does not  दरअसल अपना the ट्रॉफी , लकिन बजाय उपयोग it by अनुबंध साथ the दो trustees  of the Cup .
The NHL has registered  trademarks संबद्ध साथ the नाम और likeness of the स्टेनली कप , हालांकि the लीग 's सही to outright अपना trademarks संबद्ध  with a trophy it does not own has been disputed by some legal experts .
Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three  प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग of उत्तर अमेरिका , a नई स्टेनली कप is नहीं बना प्रत्येक साल ;  winners keep it until a new champion is crowned .
It  is असामान्य among ट्राफियां , in कि it रै the names of सब of the जीतना  players , coaches , management , and club staff engraved on its chalice .
Initially , a new band added each year caused the trophy to grow  in आकार , कमाई the उपनाम `` stovepipe कप  '' .
In 1958 the modern  one-piece कप थी designed साथ a five-band बैरल जिससे  could contain 13 winning teams per band .
To avoid the Stanley Cup from growing , when the bottom band is full , the oldest band is removed and  preserved in the हॉकी हॉल of कीर्ति , और a नई रिक्त बैंड added to  the bottom .
It has been referred to as  the कप , रब स्टेनली 's कप , the पावन grail , or  facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug .
The Stanley Cup  is घिरी by numerous महापुरूष और परंपराओं , the oldest of जिससे is the celebratory पीने of शैम्पेन आउट  of the cup by the winning team .
The original bowl was made of  चांदी और is 18.5 सेण्टीमीटर ( 7.28 इंच ) in ऊँचाई  and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter .
The current Stanley  कप , अव्वल साथ a नक़ल of the असली कटोरी , is बना of a चांदी और निकल मिश्रधातु ; it रै a ऊँचाई of 89.54 सेण्टीमीटर ( 35.25 इंच ) और weighs  15.5 kilograms ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ) .
Since the 1914–15  ऋतु , the कप रै महरूम जीती a संयुक्त 94 टाइम्स  by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams .
Prior to that , the  चुनौती कप थी आयोजित by नौ अलग टीमों  .
The Montreal  canadiens have जीती the कप a रिकार्ड 24 टाइम्स और हैं फिलहाल the पिछला  Canadian-based team in the NHL to win the cup after winning it in 1993 .
the स्टेनली कप थी नहीं awarded in 1919 क्युकी of a स्पेनी फ्लू महामारी , और  in 2005 , as a consequence of the NHL lockout .
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit consisting of coalesced berries ,  और the सबसे economically significant संयंत्र in the bromeliaceae  family .
pineapples may be cultivated इससे  a crown cutting of the fruit , possibly flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six months .
Pineapple does not  ripen significantly post-harvest  .
Pineapples  हैं खपत भैस , पकाया , juiced , और preserved  , and are found in a wide array of cuisines .
In addition to consumption  , in the फिलीपीन the अनानास 's पत्ते हैं प्रयुक्त to उपज the वस्त्र रेशा piña - employed as a घटक  of wall paper and furnishings , amongst other uses .
In computer science , an  पूर्णांक is a datum of अभिन्न आंकड़ा प्रकार , a आंकड़ा प्रकार जिससे represents कुछ परिमित उपसमुच्चय of the गणितीय  integers .
अभिन्न आंकड़ा प्रकार may be of अलग आकार और may or may नहीं  be allowed to contain negative values .
Integers are  commonly represented in a कंप्यूटर as a समूह  of binary digits .
The size of the grouping varies so the set of integer  आकार उपलब्धियाँ varies between अलग प्रकार of कंप्यूटर  .
कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर nearly सदा provides a रास्ता to represent a प्रोसेसर पंजीकरण or  memory address as an integer .
The Gordon Dam  in तस्मानिया is a विशाल हाइड्रो सुविधा  , with an installed capacity of .
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity  उत्पन्न by hydropower ; the उत्पादन of विद्युत शक्ति through the उपयोग of the गुरुत्वाकर्षक फ़ोर्स of गिरना  or flowing water .
It is the most widely  प्रयुक्त रूप of बेदर्दी उर्जा , हिसाब लिये 16 प्रतिशत of वैश्विक विद्युत पीढी – 3,427 terawatt-hours of विद्युत उत्पादन in 2010  , and is expected to increase about 3.1 % each year for the next 25 years .
Hydropower is produced in  150 देशों , साथ the asia-pacific प्रदेश generating 32 प्रतिशत of वैश्विक hydropower  in 2010 .
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer ,  साथ 721 terawatt-hours of उत्पादन in 2010 , representing  around 17 percent of domestic electricity use .
There are now three  hydroelectricity पौधे larger than 10 gw : the तीन gorges बांध in चीन , itaipu बांध आरपार  the Brazil/Paraguay border , and Guri Dam in Venezuela .
The cost of  hydroelectricity is अपेक्षाकृत कम , बनाना it a प्रतिस्पर्धी सोर्स of बेदर्दी  electricity .
The average cost of electricity  इससे a हाइड्रो संयंत्र larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 u.S. सेंट प्रति kilowatt-hour  .
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can be  ramped up और bas बहुत जल्दी to adapt to बदलना उर्जा मांगे  .
However ,  damming interrupts the प्रवाह of नदियाँ और can नुक़सान लोकल ecosystems , और भवन विशाल dams और टंकी  often involves displacing people and wildlife .
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed , the project  produces no सीधा बर्बाद , और रै a considerably निम्नतर आउटपुट स्तर of the ग्रीनहाउस गैस कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड ( ) than चट्टान ईंधन संचालित उर्जा पौधे  .
वाइन लड़के at a यूनानी  symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of  सालो और is closely intertwined साथ the इतिहास of कृषि , भोजन  , civilization and humanity itself .
Archaeological  प्रमाण suggests कि the earliest ज्ञात वाइन उत्पादन occurred in कया is अभी the देश of जॉर्जिया around 7000 bce , साथ अन्य notable  sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE , respectively .
The world 's oldest known winery ( dated to 3000  bce ) थी खोजा in areni-1 गुफा in a mountainous क्षेत्रफल of अर्मेनिया  .
url_http  .
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates that domestication of the  grapevine took प्लेस दौरान the जल्दी कांस्य आयु in the निकट ईस्ट , सुमेर और मिश्र इससे around  the third millennium BCE .
Evidence of the  earliest वाइन उत्पादन in balkans रै महरूम uncovered at पुरातत्व साइट  in northern Greece ( Macedonia ) , dated to 4500 BC .
These same sites also contain  remnants of the संसार 's earliest प्रमाण of कुचल  grapes .
In Egypt , wine became a part of  अंकित इतिहास , playing an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in प्राचीन ceremonial  life .
Traces of wild wine  डेटिंग इससे the दूसरी और पहला सहस्राब्दियों bce have  also been found in China .
मोरक्कन वाइन kasher  label 1930
the यहूदी परंपरा और उपयोग of कोषेर वाइन is डेटिंग  back to biblical times .
the long इतिहास of the उपयोग और उत्पादन of  wine throughout ancient Israel is backed up by archeological evidence .
Within the Jewish diaspora  समुदायों सब around the ग्लोब , the परंपरागत और धार्मिक उपयोग of कोषेर  wine continued to this day .
वाइन , linked in मिथक to dionysus / bacchus , थी आम in प्राचीन यूनानियों और रोम , और अनेक of आज 's प्रमुख wine-producing regions  of Western Europe were established with Phoenician and , later , Roman plantations .
winemaking प्रौद्योगिकी improved considerably दौरान the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य : अनेक अंगूर किस्में और cultivation  techniques were known ; the design of the wine press advanced ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine .
Rashi , a medieval French rabbi and  पुकारा the `` पिता '' of सब टीका कि followed on the talmud और the tanakh , अर्जित उसके जीना  as a vintner .
Following the decline of Rome and its industrial-scale wine production for export ,  the ईसाई गिरिजाघर in मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय भी became a कड़ समर्थक of वाइन , जरुरी लिये जश्न of the कैथोलिक द्रव्यमान . whereas वाइन थी हराम in मध्यकालीन इस्लामी  cultures , its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated .
Geber and other Muslim  chemists pioneered the आसवन of वाइन लिये इस्लामी औषधीय और औद्योगिक उद्देश्य  such as perfume .
Wine production gradually  increased , साथ खपत burgeoning इससे the 15th सदी onwards  .
Wine production  बच the विनाशकारी phylloxera जूं of 1887 और आखिरकार स्प्रेड to numerous regions  throughout the world .
जिले of वेस्ट बंगाल
The Indian state of West  बंगाल सीमायें साथ नेपाल , भूटान , बांग्लादेश और the  Indian states of Bihar , Jharkhand , Odisha , Assam and Sikkim .
the हिमालय झूठ in the उत्तर of the राज्य और the  Bay of Bengal is at the south .
In between them , the  नदी गंगा बहती eastwards और इसके प्रमुख distributary , the हुगली नदी , बहती  south to reach the Bay of Bengal .
The Siliguri Corridor , which connects North-East India with rest of the India ,  झूठ in the उत्तर बंगाल प्रदेश of the राज्य .
Geographically , West Bengal is divided into a variety of regions— Darjeeling Himalayan hill  प्रदेश , terai और द्वार प्रदेश , उत्तर बंगाल मैदान , rarh प्रदेश , पश्चिमी पठार और ऊँची lands , तटीय मैदान , sunderbans और  the Ganges Delta .
In 1947 , when India gained  स्वतंत्रता , the राज्य of वेस्ट बंगाल थी formed साथ 14 जिले , as प्रति विभाजन  plan of the then Bengal province of British India .
The former princely  राज्य koch बिहार joined as a ज़िला in 1950 , और the पूर्व फ्रेंच एन्क्लेव chandannagore  joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954 .
The States  पुनर्गठन अधिनियम of 1956 led to जोड of पुरुलिया ज़िला to the  state and to enlargement of West Dinajpur district .
Later  , larger जिले ऐसे as वेस्ट दिनाजपुर ,  24 Parganas and Midnapore were bifurcated .
वेस्ट बंगाल is अभी विभाजित into उन्नीस जिले  under three divisions .
Districts are administered by  ज़िला magistrates , और विभाजन हैं administered by डिवीजनल  Commissioners .
Kolkata ,  the पूंजी of the राज्य , constitutes  the Kolkata district .
Other districts are further divided into  प्रशासनिक इकाई ऐसे as subdivisions और ब्लॉक , administered by sdo और bdo , क्रमशः  .
the पंचायती राज रै  a three-tier structure in the state .
The atomic unit is called a Gram Panchayat ,  जिससे is the पंचायत संगठन लिये a संग्रहण of  villages .
The block-level organizations are called  पंचायत samiti , और the district-level संगठन हैं नामित zilla parishad  .
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a region that consists of the Caribbean Sea ,  इसके आइलैंड्स ( कुछ घिरी by the caribbean समुद्र और कुछ bordering दोनो the caribbean समुद्र और the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर ) , और the surrounding  coasts .
The region is  southeast of the गल्फ of मैक्सिको और the उत्तर अमरीकी मेनलैंड , ईस्ट of सेंट्रल  America , and north of South America .
Situated largely on the Caribbean  थाली , the प्रदेश comprises अधिक than 700  islands , islets , reefs , and cays .
( See  the सूची .  )
These islands generally  रूप द्वीप arcs कि delineate the पूर्वी और उत्तरी  edges of the Caribbean Sea .
The Caribbean islands ,  consisting of the वृहद antilles on the उत्तर और the lesser antilles on the दक्षिण और ईस्ट ( सहित the leeward antilles ) , हैं भाग of the somewhat larger वेस्ट इंडीज  grouping , which also includes the Lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea .
In  a wider भाव , the मेनलैंड देशों of बेलीज़ और गुयाना – historically  and culturally part of the British West Indies – may be included .
Geopolitically , the  caribbean आइलैंड्स हैं प्रायः regarded as a subregion of उत्तर अमेरिका और  are organized into 30 territories including sovereign states , overseas departments , and dependencies .
From January 3 , 1958 , to May 31 ,  1962 , वहीँ थी a short-lived देश पुकारा the संघ of the वेस्ट इंडीज रचित of टेन english-speaking caribbean territories  , all of which were then UK dependencies .
The  वेस्ट इंडीज क्रिकेट टोली continues to  represent many of those nations .
This is a  सूची of the 221 कस्बों और 13 शहरों in  the U.S. state of New Hampshire .
For each town/city , the table lists the county to  जिससे it belongs , इसके तिथि of incorporation , इसके जनसांख्यिकी according to the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी ,  its form of government , and its principal villages .
शहरों हैं indicated  in boldface .
शहरों और कस्बों हैं treated identically  under state law .
Cities are just towns whose form of  सरकारी थी बदला by a खास अधिनियम of the नई हैम्पशायर विधानमंडल  .
However , towns currently are able to change their form  of सरकारी by सरल वोटर स्वीकृति of a नई नगरपालिका चार्टर , साथ अनेक of the अधिक populous कस्बों having already  done so .
The main slave  रूट in मध्यकालीन अफ़्रीकी  .
This article discusses systems ,  इतिहास , और प्रभाव of गुलामी भीतर अफ़्रीकी  .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade ,  maafa , और गुलामी in समकालीन अफ़्रीकी लिये अन्य  discussions .
`` Slave  हस्तांतरण in अफ़्रीकी '' .
Europeans usually  किया नहीं डालें the आंतरिक regions  .
Slavery in  अफ़्रीकी रै existed throughout the महाद्वीप लिये अनेक सदियां  , and continues in the current day .
प्रणालियों of servitude और गुलामी यहूद आम in अनेक भाग  of the continent , as they were in much of the ancient world .
In most African societies where slavery was  प्रचलित , the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated as indentured बन्दों और  not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic  स्लेव व्यापार began , अनेक of the लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives लिये स्लेव बाज़ार बाहर  of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many  अलग फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly अनुरूप the परिभाषाएं of गुलामी elsewhere  in the world .
Debt slavery ,  enslavement of युद्ध captives , सैन्य गुलामी , और दण्ड गुलामी यहूद सब practiced  in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the  आंतरिक of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions , गुलामी थी a छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक जीवन of अनेक समाजों in अफ़्रीकी जबतक the परिचय of transcontinental स्लेव ट्रेड ( अरब  and Atlantic ) .
Slave practices were  again रूपांतरित साथ यूरोपीय colonization of अफ़्रीकी और the औपचारिक abolition of गुलामी  in the early 1900s .
Brett Lorenzo  favre ( born अक्तूबर 10 , 1969 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक जो खर्च the  majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL , having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ) , Green Bay  पैकर्स ( 1992 – 2007 ) , नई यॉर्क jets ( 2008 ) और मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स ( 2009 – 2010  ) .
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw  लिये over 70,000 गज , over 500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over 6,000 completions , और over  10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern  मिसिसिपी लिये चार सालो पहले होने चयनित in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by अटलांटा ( 33rd overall  ) .
he थी traded to ग्रीन खाड़ी on फ़रवरी 10 , 1992 , लिये the 19th चुनें  in the 1992 NFL Draft .
Favre became the Packers ' starting  क्वार्टरबैक in the चौथी खेल of the 1992 ऋतु , stepping in लिये घायल क्वार्टरबैक डॉन  Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at  क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 ऋतु पहले हस्ताक्षर साथ the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18 , 2009 as उनके  starting quarterback .
He made an  एनएफएल रिकार्ड 297 लगातार starts ( 321  including playoffs ) .
He is the only player to win the AP Most  मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी तीन लगातार टाइम्स  ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight  प्रभाग championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , पाँच nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल ( 1995 , 1996  , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including most career touchdown passes , most career passing yards , most career pass  completions , सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें , सबसे करियर interceptions thrown , सबसे लगातार starts by a खिलाड़ी , सबसे लगातार starts by a क्वार्टरबैक , सबसे करियर victories as a starting क्वार्टरबैक , सबसे बर्खास्त  , and most fumbles .
He is also  referred to by उसके उपनाम `` the gunslinger  '' .
salesforce.com inc. is a वैश्विक एंटरप्राइज़ तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered  in San Francisco , California .
Though best known for its customer relationship management ( CRM )  उत्पाद , salesforce रै भी विस्तारित into the `` सोशल एंटरप्राइज़ एरिना  '' through acquisitions .
It  is फिलहाल क्रमित the सबसे अभिनव कम्पनी in अमेरिका by फोर्ब्स पत्रिका , as खूब as क्रमांक 27 in सौभाग्य पत्रिका  's 100 Best Companies to Work For in 2012 .
As of April 2013 ,  the कम्पनी is क्रमित छठे in providing सेवाएं in विपणन  and customer service automation .
It  is सूचीबद्ध on the नई यॉर्क भण्डार एक्सचेंज  and is a constituent of the S & P 500 index .
Seahorse  is the शीर्षक दिए to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री मछली in the  genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient  यूनानी hippos अर्थ `` घोड़ा '' और kampos अर्थ `` समुद्र  monster '' .
Earth is the third planet from the Sun , and  the densest और fifth-largest of the आठ ग्रह in the सौर प्रणाली .
It is also the largest of  the सौर प्रणाली 's चार स्थलीय ग्रह  .
It is sometimes referred  to as the संसार or the ब्लू ग्रह  .
Earth formed  लगभग 4.54 अरब सालो पहले , और जीवन appeared on इसके सतह भीतर  its first billion years .
Earth 's biosphere then  significantly altered the वायुमंडलीय और अन्य मौलिक शारीरिक शर्तें , जिससे सक्रिय the अप्रसार of जीवों as खूब as the गठन of the ओज़ोन परत , जिससे साथ साथ धरती  's magnetic field blocked harmful solar radiation , and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land .
The physical properties of the Earth , as  खूब as इसके geological इतिहास और कक्षा , have अनुमत जीवन  to persist .
Estimates on how much  longer the ग्रह होगा be समर्थ to continue to support  life range from , to as long as .
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into several rigid  खण्ड , or tectonic प्लेटों , कि migrate आरपार the सतह over अवधि of अनेक लाखो  of years .
About 71 %  of the सतह is covered by नमक जल महासागर , साथ the शेष consisting of महाद्वीपों और आइलैंड्स जिससे साथ  have many lakes and other sources of water that contribute to the hydrosphere .
Earth 's poles are mostly covered with ice that is the solid ice  of the अंटार्कटिक बर्फ चादर और the समुद्र बर्फ कि is the ध्रुवीय बर्फ पैक  .
The planet 's interior remains active , with a solid iron inner core , a  द्रव बाहरी कोर कि generates the चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड , और a मोटा परत  of relatively solid mantle .
Earth gravitationally interacts with  अन्य वस्तुएँ in स्पेस , विशेषकर  the Sun and the Moon .
During one orbit around the Sun , the Earth rotates  परिचय इसके अपना अक्ष 366.26 टाइम्स , बनाना 365.26 सौर दिनों  , or one sidereal year .
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4° away from the perpendicular of its orbital plane , producing  मौसमी विसंगतियाँ on the ग्रह 's सतह साथ a काल of एक तीव्र साल ( 365.24  solar days ) .
The Moon is Earth  's तभी प्राकृतिक उपग्रह  .
It began orbiting  the धरती परिचय  .
The Moon 's gravitational interaction with Earth  stimulates समंदर tides , stabilizes the अक्षीय झुकाव , और धीरे slows the ग्रह 's रोटेशन  .
The planet is  घर to लाखो of प्रजाति of जीवन , सहित इंसानो  .
Both  the खनिज संसाधन of the ग्रह और the उत्पाद of the जीवमंडल योगदान संसाधन कि हैं  used to support a global human population .
These inhabitants are grouped into about  200 स्वतंत्र sovereign राज्य , जिससे interact through कूटनीति  , travel , trade , and military action .
Human cultures have  विकसित अनेक दृश्य of the ग्रह , सहित इसके personification as a ग्रहीय देवता , इसके आकार as चपटा , इसके स्थिति as the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड , और in the आधुनिक gaia principle  , as a single , self-regulating organism in its own right .
the जादूगर इससे the waite-smith टैरो , जो is चित्रित  using the same tools that modern Wiccans use .
In  the neopagan धर्म of wicca , a दायरा of जादुई  tools are used in ritual practice .
Each of these  टूल्स रै अलग उपयोग और एसोसिएशन , और हैं प्रयुक्त primarily  to direct magical energies .
They are used at an  वेदी , अंदर a जादू वृत्त  .
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca , the tools are  प्रायः विभाजित into निजी टूल्स , जिससे हैं लिये उपयोग by , और स्वामित्व by , an व्यक्तिगत wiccan  , and coven tools , used collectively by the coven .
This practice may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as the use of the Square  और compasses ) , इससे जिससे wicca draws कुछ सामग्री , और partly इससे the संस्कार of the hermetic अनुक्रम of the सुनहरी  Dawn .
the latter बना much उपयोग of सामग्री इससे मध्यकालीन grimoires ऐसे as the कुंजी of सुलेमान , जिससे रै अनेक illustrations of जादुई  tools and instructions for their preparation .
ठेठ eukaryotic  cell .
Cellular respiration is the set of  the metabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं of जीवों to बदलें biochemical उर्जा इससे nutrients into  adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions , which break large molecules into  छोटी ones , releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called `` high-energy '' bonds हैं replaced by stronger  bonds in the products .
Respiration is one of the  कुंजी तरीके a कोशिका gains उपयोगी उर्जा to ईंधन सेल्यूलर  activity .
सेल्यूलर श्वसन is माना an  exothermic redox reaction .
the overall प्रतिक्रिया is टूटा into अनेक छोटी ones जब it occurs in the  body , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically , cellular  श्वसन is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया , it clearly करता नहीं resemble  one when it occurs in a living cell .
This difference is  क्युकी it occurs in अनेक पृथक  steps .
While the overall reaction is a  दहन प्रतिक्रिया , no सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises it  is a combustion reaction .
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar ,  अमीनो acids और वसीय acids , और a आम oxidizing एजेंट ( इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ) is आणविक ऑक्सीजन ( o2 )  .
The  उर्जा भंडारित in एटीपी ( इसके तीसरा फास्फेट समूह is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप , thereby transferring उर्जा लिये उपयोग by the कोशिका ) can तब be प्रयुक्त  to drive processes requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes .
A stored-pressure fire  extinguisher बना by amerex
A  अंग्रेजों आग extinguisher साथ  ID sign , call point and fire action sign
A  आग extinguisher , ज्वाला extinguisher , or बस an extinguisher , is an क्रियाशील आग सुरक्षा  device used to extinguish or control small fires , often in emergency situations .
It is  नहीं intended लिये उपयोग on an out-of-control आग , ऐसे as एक जिससे रै पहुँचे the छत , endangers the उपयोक्ता ( i.e. , no एस्केप रूट  , smoke , explosion hazard , etc . ) , or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department .
Typically , a fire  extinguisher consists of a hand-held बेलनाकार दबाव पोत containing an एजेंट जिससे  can be discharged to extinguish a fire .
In the United States ,  आग extinguishers , in सब इमारतें अन्य than घरों , हैं generally जरूरी to be सर्विस और inspected by a आग सुरक्षा  service company at least annually .
Some jurisdictions  आवश्यकता अधिक बारंबार सेवा लिये आग extinguishers  .
the servicer स्थान a टैग on the extinguisher to indicate the प्रकार  of service performed ( annual inspection , recharge , new fire extinguisher ) and when .
There are two main types of fire  extinguishers : भंडारित दबाव और cartridge-operated  .
In stored  दबाव इकाई , the expellant is भंडारित in the वही कक्ष as the firefighting  agent itself .
Depending  on the एजेंट प्रयुक्त , अलग  propellants are used .
With dry chemical  extinguishers , नाइट्रोजन is typically प्रयुक्त ; जल और झाग extinguishers typically  use air .
Stored pressure  आग extinguishers हैं the सबसे आम  type .
Cartridge-operated  extinguishers contain the expellant गैस in a पृथक कार्ट्रिज कि is punctured prior to निर्वहन , exposing  the propellant to the extinguishing agent .
This type is not as  आम , प्रयुक्त primarily in क्षेत्रों ऐसे as औद्योगिक सुविधाएं , जहाँ वे प्राप्त higher-than-average  use .
They have the advantage of simple and prompt recharge , allowing an operator to  निर्वहन the extinguisher , रिचार्ज it , और वापसी to the आग in a उचित राशि of समय .
Unlike stored pressure types , these extinguishers use compressed carbon dioxide  बजाय of नाइट्रोजन , हालांकि नाइट्रोजन कारतूस  are used on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models .
Cartridge operated  extinguishers हैं उपलब्धियाँ in शुष्क रासायनिक और शुष्क चूर्ण प्रकार in the u.S. और in जल , wetting  agent , foam , dry chemical ( classes ABC and B.C . ) , and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest of the world .
Fire extinguishers are further divided  into हैंडहेल्ड और cart-mounted , भी पुकारा wheeled extinguishers  .
Handheld  extinguishers तौल इससे 0.5 to 14 गामा ( 1 to 30 पाउंड ) , और हैं  hence , easily portable by hand .
cart-mounted इकाई typically तौल 23+  kilograms ( 50+ pounds ) .
These wheeled models  हैं सबसे commonly मिला at निर्माण साइट , विमानक्षेत्र runways  , heliports , as well as docks and marinas .
Native Americans in the United States are the indigenous peoples in North  अमेरिका भीतर the सीमाएँ of the present-day महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य , अलास्का  , and the island state of Hawaii .
They are composed of numerous ,  पृथक देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों और जातीय समूह , अनेक of जिससे जीवित as बरकरार  political communities .
the शर्तें प्रयुक्त to refer to देशी अमेरिकी  have been controversial .
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of home interviews , most of the respondents with  an expressed वरीयता refer to themselves as अमरीकी इंडियंस ( or बस इंडियंस ) , और इस पद रै महरूम अपनाया by प्रमुख अखबारों और कुछ अकादमिक समूह ; however , इस पद करता नहीं typically शामिल देशी hawaiians or निश्चित अलास्कन natives , ऐसे  as Aleut , Yup'ik , or Inuit peoples .
Since the end of the  15th सदी , the माइग्रेशन of europeans to the americas , और उनके importation of africans as  slaves , has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment between Old and New World societies .
Europeans created most of the early  लिखा ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड परिचय देशी अमेरिकी बाद the colonists ' आव्रजन  to the Americas .
Many Native Americans lived as hunter-gatherer  समाजों और बताई उनके histories by  oral traditions .
In many groups , women  carried आउट sophisticated cultivation of numerous किस्में of स्टेपल फसलों : मक्का ,  beans and squash .
The  स्वदेशी संस्कृतियों यहूद काफी अलग इससे those of the कृषिक , proto-industrial  , mostly Christian immigrants from western Eurasia .
अनेक देशी संस्कृतियों यहूद matrilineal ; the लोगों occupied lands लिये  use of the entire community , for hunting or agriculture .
Europeans at that time  था patriarchal संस्कृतियों और था विकसित अवधारणाओं of व्यक्तिगत  property rights with respect to land that were extremely different .
The  मतभेद in संस्कृतियों between the स्थापित देशी अमेरिकी और अप्रवासी europeans , as खूब as shifting alliances among अलग  nations of each culture through the centuries , caused extensive political tension , ethnic violence and social disruption .
The Native Americans suffered high  fatalities इससे the सम्पर्क साथ संक्रामक यूरेशियाई रोगों , to जिससे वे था no acquired प्रतिरक्षण .
Epidemics  बाद यूरोपीय सम्पर्क caused the महानतम  loss of life for indigenous populations .
Estimates of the pre-Columbian population of what  आज constitutes the u.S. vary significantly , ranging इससे 1 लाख to 18 लाख  .
After the colonies  revolted विरूद्ध ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और स्थापित the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका , अध्यक्ष जार्ज वॉशिंगटन और हेनरी नॉक्स conceived of the विचार of `` civilizing  '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens .
Assimilation ( whether  voluntary as साथ the choctaw , or मजबूर ) became a सतत नीति  through American administrations .
दौरान the 19th सदी , the विचारधारा of manifest नियति  became integral to the American nationalist movement .
Expansion of European-American  populations to the वेस्ट बाद the अमरीकी क्रान्ति resulted in increasing दबाव on देशी अमरीकी lands , warfare between the  groups , and rising tensions .
In 1830 , the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act , authorizing the government to  relocate देशी अमेरिकी इससे उनके homelands भीतर स्थापित राज्य to lands वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी , accommodating european-american विस्तार  .
The first European  अमेरिकी to एनकाउंटर the पश्चिमी आंतरिक जनजातियों यहूद generally  fur traders and trappers .
There  यहूद भी जेसुइट प्रचारकों क्रियाशील in the  Northern Tier .
As United States expansion reached  into the अमरीकी वेस्ट , settler और खनिक प्रवासियों आए into increasing विरोध साथ  the Great Basin , Great Plains , and other Western tribes .
These were complex nomadic  संस्कृतियों आधारित on घोड़ा संस्कृति और मौसमी  bison hunting .
They  carried आउट दमदार प्रतिरोध to संयुक्त राज्य incursions in the दशकों बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध , in a श्रेणी of भारतीय युद्धों , जिससे यहूद बारंबार  up until the 1890s , but continued into the 20th century .
The  transcontinental रेलरोड brought अधिक non-natives into जनजातीय  land in the west .
Over  समय , the u.S. मजबूर a श्रेणी of treaties और जमीन cessions by the जनजातियों , और स्थापित  reservations for them in many western states .
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar  pursuits , लकिन european-american agricultural प्रौद्योगिकी of the समय थी अपर्याप्त लिये प्रायः शुष्क रिज़र्वेशन  lands .
In 1924 , Native Americans who were not  already u.S. नागरिकों यहूद granted नागरिकता by कॉंग्रेस  .
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship with the United States  क्युकी वे may be सदस्यों of राष्ट्र , जनजातियों , or bands साथ प्रभुता  and treaty rights .
Central America ( ) is the  सेंट्रल भौगोलिक प्रदेश of the americas  .
It is the  southernmost , isthmian portion of the उत्तर अमरीकी  continent , which connects with South America on the southeast .
When considered  भाग of the एकीकृत महाद्वीपीय  model , it is considered a subcontinent .
Central America consists  of सात देशों : बेलीज़ , कोस्टा रिका , el साल्वाडोर , ग्वाटेमाला  , Honduras , Nicaragua , and Panama .
Central America is part of the Mesoamerican  biodiversity हॉटस्पॉट , जिससे extends इससे उत्तरी ग्वाटेमाला through  central Panama .
It is bordered by Mexico to the north , the Caribbean Sea to the east ,  the उत्तर प्रशांत समंदर to the वेस्ट , और कोलंबिया to the south-east  .
Central America is an  क्षेत्रफल of , or लगभग 0.1 % of the धरती  's surface .
As  of 2009 , इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी अनुमानित at 41,739,000  .
It has a  घनत्व of 77 लोगों प्रति वर्गाकार  kilometer .
scrubs is an अमरीकी चिकित्सा comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by  Bill Lawrence that aired from October 2 , 2001 to March 17 , 2010 on NBC and later ABC .
The series  फ़ॉलो the जीवनदान of कर्मचारी at the fictional पवित्र  Heart teaching hospital .
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term for a  low-ranking व्यक्ति क्युकी at the शुरूआत of the श्रेणी , सबसे  of the main characters were medical interns .
The series features fast-paced  पटकथा , slapstick , और surreal vignettes प्रस्तुत ज़्यादातर as the daydreams of the  central character , Dr. John `` J.D . ''
Dorian  , जो is निभाई by zach  Braff .
Actors starring alongside Braff in the  पहला आठ सीज़न शामिल सारा chalke , डोनाल्ड faison , neil flynn , केन  Jenkins , John C. McGinley and Judy Reyes .
The series has also featured multiple guest appearances by film actors ,  ऐसे as ब्रेंडन फ्रेज़र , हीथर ग्राहम , और कोलिन farrell  .
In the ninth season , many new cast members were  introduced और the दिखाएँ सेटिंग स्थानांतरित इससे a हॉस्पिटल to a चिकित्सा स्कूल .
Out of the original cast , only  braff , faison और mcginley became नियमित डाल सदस्यों , जबकि the अन्य साथ the एक्सेप्शन  of Reyes , made guest appearances .
Braff  appeared in छह एपीसोड of the नवीं ऋतु  before departing .
Kerry Bishé ,  eliza कूप , डेव फ्रेंको और माइकल mosley became श्रेणी regulars साथ  Bishé becoming the show 's new narrator .
scrubs premiered on अक्तूबर  2 , 2001 on NBC .
The series received a  पीबॉडी पुरस्कार in 2006  .
During the seventh season , NBC  घोषित कि it होता नहीं नवीनीकृत the दिखाएँ  .
Shortly  बाद the सातवाँ ऋतु finale , एबीसी घोषित it था उठाई up the  eighth season of the series , which began January 6 , 2009 .
The ninth season  premiered on दिसम्बर 1 ,  2009 .
On May 14 , 2010  , एबीसी घोषित it था officially रद्द  Scrubs .
an 1817 boulton & वाट बीम झोंके इंजन , प्रयुक्त in  Netherton at the ironworks of M W Grazebrook .
Re-erected on the  a38 ( m ) in बर्मिंघम , uk
A  भाप इंजन is a ऊष्मा इंजन कि performs mechanical  work using steam as its working fluid .
Using boiling water  to उपज mechanical गति goes वापस  about 2,000 years , but early devices were not practical .
Since the late  1700s भाप इंजन have become a प्रमुख सोर्स of  mechanical power .
The first  अनुप्रयोग यहूद निकालना जल इससे  mines .
In 1781 James Watt  patented a भाप इंजन कि उत्पादित निरन्तर  rotative motion .
ये 10 hp इंजन सक्रिय a चौड़ी दायरा  of manufacturing machinery to be powered .
the इंजन could be sited anywhere कि जल और  coal or wood fuel could be obtained .
By 1883 , engines that could  provide 10,000 hp था become feasible  .
Steam engines could also be  लागू to वाहनों ऐसे as कर्षण इंजन और the रेल इंजनों जिससे हैं commonly  just called steam engines outside America .
The stationary steam engine was  a कुंजी घटक of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति , allowing कारखानों to locate जहाँ  water power was unavailable .
Today steam turbines  generate परिचय 90 % of the इलेक्ट्रिक शक्ति in the संयुक्त राज्य using  a variety of heat sources .
Steam  इंजन हैं बाह्य दहन इंजन , जहाँ the working द्रव  is separate from the combustion products .
Non-combustion heat sources such as solar power  , नाभिकीय शक्ति or geothermal उर्जा may  be used .
The ideal thermodynamic  साईकिल प्रयुक्त to analyze इस प्रक्रम is पुकारा the rankine साईकिल .
In  the साईकिल , जल is heated  into steam in a boiler until it reaches a high pressure .
When expanded through  पिस्टन्स or turbines , mechanical कार्य  is done .
The reduced-pressure  भाप is तब सघन और उत्तेजित वापस  into the boiler .
In general usage , the term  भाप इंजन can refer to either the एकीकृत भाप पौधे ( सहित बायलरों इत्यादि . ) ऐसे as रेल भाप इंजनों और पोर्टेबल  engines , or may refer to the piston or turbine machinery alone , as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine .
Specialized devices such as steam  hammers और भाप pile ड्राइवर हैं निर्भर on  steam supplied from a separate boiler .
A mill engine  इससे stott पार्क bobbin मिल , cumbria  , England
A steam  लोकोमोटिव in जर्मनी .this क्लास of इंजन थी निर्मित in 1942 – 1950  and operated commercially until 1988 .
``  मूव कुतिया '' ( संपादित संस्करण titled `` मूव b***h '' or बस `` मूव '' ) is the  third official single from rapper Ludacris ' album Word of Mouf .
the सिंगल सुविधाएँ  Mystikal and I-20 .
The single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 making it Ludacris 's  पहला शीर्ष टेन hit on the चार्ट , it भी पहुँचे # 3 on hot रैप ट्रैक्स और # 3 on hot r & b/hip-hop  Singles & Tracks .
प्यूर्टो rican reggaeton duo maicol & मैनुएल sampled the सोंग on `` होय me  Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo .
The song is also featured  in एपीसोड 2 , श्रेणी एक of अंग्रेजों टीन comedy/drama  Skins .
The song was also  प्रयुक्त by संसार कुश्ती entertainment superstar montel vontavious पोर्टर दौरान  his short stint in Ring of Honor .
it थी भी प्रयुक्त लिये अप्रैल  Hunter in various Independent circuits .
It was  प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म atl अभिनीत t.i . , और ' hancock , '  although in the latter , the clean version was used .
A snippet of the song is played during  ट्रैफ़िक रिपोर्ट्स on अनेक रेडियो स्टेशन , प्रायः carrying an urban/hip-hop स्वरूप .
Retired NBA  स्टार और अभी ईएसपीएन विश्लेषक jalen रोज़  is featured in the music video .
The song has been covered by  चट्टान बैंड प्रारंभ ट्रबल , on उनके एल्बम प्रत्येक समाधान रै  Its Problem .
It was featured on British sitcom The  inbetweeners जब the वर्ण jay और neil took होगा on a 'pussy पैट्रोल  ' in Jay 's red Nissan Micra .
it थी sampled by लड़की बात on the पहला  track of his album All Day , `` Oh No '' .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the  संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य , ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms , और उनके territories और dependencies , और  head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is  परम् राज्यपाल of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड और , in कुछ of उसके realms , carries the शीर्षक of defender  of the Faith as part of her full title .
On her  accession on 6 फ़रवरी 1952 , एलिज़ाबेथ became सिर of the राष्ट्रमंडल और महारानी regnant of सात स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल देशों : the संयुक्त किंगडम , कनाडा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992 , the number of her realms  varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता और कुछ realms became republics  .
At present , in addition to the first four aforementioned countries ,  एलिज़ाबेथ is महारानी of जमैका , बारबाडोस , the बहामा , हरा , पापुआ नई गिनी , the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स , तुवालू , संत लूसिया , संत विंसेंट और the grenadines , बेलीज़ , अण्टीगुआ और  Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her  शासनकाल of सालो is फिलहाल the दूसरी longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया  has reigned longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth was  born in लंदन और शिक्षित  privately at home .
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in  1936 on the abdication of उसके bhai एडवर्ड viii , इससे जिससे  time she was the heir presumptive .
She began to undertake public duties during the  दूसरी संसार युद्ध , in जिससे वो परोसा in the auxiliary territorial सेवा  .
In  1947 , वो शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप , ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग , साथ जिसको वो रै चार children  : Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
Her  राजतिलक सेवा took प्लेस in 1953 और थी the  first to be televised .
The Queen 's many historic visits  और बैठक शामिल a राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड और reciprocal विज़िट to  and from the Pope .
The Queen  रै देखी प्रमुख संवैधानिक परिवर्तन in उसके realms , ऐसे as devolution  in the United Kingdom and the patriation of the Canadian constitution .
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children , the births of  उसके grandchildren , the प्रतिष्ठापन of the प्रिंस of वेल्स , और the जश्न of माइलस्टोन ऐसे as उसके चांदी , सुनहरी , और डायमंड jubilees in 1977 , 2002 , और 2012 , क्रमशः  .
Major  कार्यक्रम in the महारानी 's शासनकाल have शामिल the परेशानियों in उत्तरी आयरलैंड , the falklands  War , wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan .
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56 , the assassination of Prince Philip 's  ताऊ , रब माउंटबेटन , the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis ) , the मौत in 1997 of उसके पूर्व daughter-in-law , डायना , राजकुमारी  of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has  occasionally faced कठोर दबायें आलोचना of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments , लकिन  support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high .
Christianity is the largest religion  सूचीबद्ध by australians in the नेशनल जनसांख्यिकी  .
In the 2011 Census , 61.1  % of australians यहूद सूचीबद्ध  as Christian .
Australia has no official state religion and  the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई संविधान protects स्वतंत्रता of  religion .
The presence of  christianity in ऑस्ट्रेलिया began साथ the आगमन of the पहला बेड़े of अंग्रेजों convicts  in 1788 .
The religion grew to account for 96.1 % of the national  जनसांख्यिकी at the समय of the संघ of ऑस्ट्रेलिया in 1901 .
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly  ज्ञात as the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) remained the largest denomination जबतक 1986 ,  when it was surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia .
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance  among कुछ भाग of the जनसांख्यिकी have diversified the जनसांख्यिकी of धर्म  in Australia .
Of the  roughly 61 % identifying as ईसाई in 2011 , the largest denominations यहूद either रोमन कैथोलिक ( 25 % ) or anglican ( 17 % ) , साथ the तीसरा largest denomination होने the 5 % संबद्ध साथ  the Uniting Church in Australia .
Post-war immigration has  grown the संख्याएँ belonging to चर्च जैसे the यूनानी परंपरागत archdiocese of ऑस्ट्रेलिया और वहीँ हैं विशाल और growing पेंटेकोस्टल समूह , ऐसे as सिडनी  's Hillsong Church .
The  त्यौहार of ईस्टर और क्रिसमस हैं पब्लिक छुट्टियाँ in  Australia .
Around a quarter of students attend church schools and Christian organisations are leading non-government  प्रदाताओं of स्वास्थ्य और welfare सेवाएं through संगठनों जैसे कैथोलिक स्वास्थ्य ऑस्ट्रेलिया , anglicare , unitingcare ऑस्ट्रेलिया , the मोक्ष फौज और st विंसेंट de पॉल समाज  .
Historically significant  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई ईसाइयों have शामिल रेव dr जॉन dunmore लैंग , संत  Mary MacKillop , Catherine Helen Spence , Pastor David Unaipon , the Reverend John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls .
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim  कॉस्टेलो बैपटिस्ट मंत्री और वर्तमान सीईओ of संसार दृष्टि ऑस्ट्रेलिया , फ़्रैंक ब्रेनन , जेसुइट इंसान अधिकारों वकील , कार्डिनल जार्ज pell , कैथोलिक archbishop of सिडनी , फिलिप aspinall the वर्तमान anglican primate और archbishop  of Brisbane , Kevin Rudd , former Labor Prime Minister , and Tony Abbott , leader for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party .
Charter creating  कॉलेजिएट स्कूल , जिससे became yale कॉलेज  , October 9 , 1701
Yale University is  a निजी आइवी लीग शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in  New Haven , Connecticut .
Founded  in 1701 in the उपनिवेश of कनेक्टिकट , the विश्वविद्यालयों is the third-oldest संस्था  of higher education in the United States .
Originally chartered as  the `` कॉलेजिएट स्कूल '' , the संस्था traces इसके जड़ें to 17th-century clergymen जो sought to स्थापित a कॉलेज  to train clergy and political leaders for the colony .
In 1718 , the College was renamed  `` yale कॉलेज '' to सम्मान a तोहफा इससे elihu yale , a राज्यपाल of the अंग्रेजों  East India Company .
In  1861 , the ग्रैजुएट स्कूल of कला और sciences became the पहला u.S. संस्था to पुरस्कार the phd . yale became  a founding member of the Association of American Universities in 1900 .
Yale College was transformed , beginning in the 1930s ,  through the स्थापना of आवासीय कॉलेजों : 12 अभी मौजूद  and two more are planned .
Yale employs over 1,100  संकाय to सिखा और सलाह परिचय 5,300 undergraduate और 6,100 ग्रैजुएट और  professional students .
Almost all tenured  professors सिखा undergraduate पाठ्यक्रम , अधिक than 2,000 of जिससे हैं  offered annually .
The University 's assets include an  endowment valued at $ 19.4 अरब , the second-largest of  any academic institution in the world .
Yale 's system of more  than दो दर्जन पुस्तकालयों holds 12.5 लाख आयतन  .
49 Nobel Laureates have been  संबद्ध साथ the विश्वविद्यालयों as विद्यार्थी , संकाय , और  staff .
Yale has produced many notable alumni , including five U.S. Presidents , 19  u.S. परम् अदालत justices , और अनेक विदेशी heads of राज्य  .
At the graduate level , Yale Law  स्कूल , yale स्कूल of आर्ट , और yale स्कूल of नाटक हैं consistently क्रमित the शीर्ष  programs in their field .
Yale Law School is  the सबसे चयनात्मक विधि स्कूल in the  United States .
yale विद्यार्थी compete intercollegiately as the  Yale Bulldogs in the NCAA Division I Ivy League .
The oldest intercollegiate  एथलेटिक इवेंट in the संयुक्त राज्य is the yale-harvard  regatta .
Artemisia tridentata (  `` बिग sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an खुशबूदार झाड़ी इससे the परिवार asteraceae , जिससे grows in arid और semi-arid शर्तें , throughout a दायरा  of cold desert , steppe , and mountain habitats in the Intermountain West of North America .
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also used for several related members  of the genus artemisia , ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया sagebrush ( artemisia californica )  .
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia species are the dominant plants across large portions of the Great  जलाशय , covering कुछ 422,000 वर्गाकार मील in 11 पश्चिमी u.S. & कनाडाई राज्य  .
It is the  राज्य पुष्प of नेवाडा .
Sagebrush provides food and  आवास लिये a किस्में of प्रजाति , ऐसे as ऋषि grouse , pronghorn  antelope , gray vireo , pygmy rabbit , and mule deer .
Big sagebrush was used as an herbal medicine by Native Americans  throughout the intermountain वेस्ट of उत्तर america—especially लिये preventing संक्रमण in wounds , stopping  internal bleeding , and treating headaches and colds .
Chemically , the active  औषधीय constituents शामिल camphor , terpenoids  , and tannins .
Several  प्रमुख खतरे मौजूद to ऋषि ब्रश ecosystems , सहित इंसान settlements , परिवर्तन  to agricultural land , livestock grazing , invasive plant species , wildfires , and climate change .
Yahoo ! Mail is  a फ़्री ईमेल सेवा  offered by the American search engine company Yahoo !
It was launched in 1997 , and , according to  comscore , याहू ! मेल is the third-largest web-based ईमेल सेवा साथ 281 लाख  users as of December 2012 .
फिलहाल , याहू ! offers तीन संस्करण  of Yahoo ! Mail .
The traditional `` Yahoo ! Mail  क्लासिक '' continues the उपलब्धता of the असली  interface introduced in 1997 .
A version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax interface ,  drag-and-drop सुविधाएँ , improved ढूंढें कार्यक्षमता , कुंजीपटल शॉर्टकट , पता auto-complete , टैब्स , और अन्य अद्यतनीकृत सुविधाएँ  .
In October 2010 ,  याहू ! released a बीटा संस्करण of याहू ! मेल , जिससे शामिल सुधार to the डिज़ाइन , प्रदर्शन , ढूंढें कार्यक्षमता  , and Facebook integration .
In May 2011 , beta testing for the new  संस्करण रोका , और it became the डिफॉल्ट इंटरफ़ेस  for Yahoo ! Mail .
In early 2008 , Yahoo ! began offering  असीमित मेल भंडार to इसके उपयोक्ता in जवाब to heated प्रतियोगिता in the  free web-mail market segment .
On June 27 ,  2009 , याहू ! मेसेंजर थी एकीकृत  with Yahoo ! Mail .
Tacoma ( , ) is a mid-sized urban port city and  the काउंटी सीट of पियर्स काउंटी , वॉशिंगटन , संयुक्त राज्य  .
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound , southwest of Seattle  , पूर्वोत्तर of the राज्य पूंजी , ओलंपिया , और उत्तरपश्चिम of माउंट rainier  National Park .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 198,397 , according  to the 2010 census .
Tacoma is the second-largest city in the  puget ध्वनि क्षेत्रफल और the तीसरा  largest in the state .
Tacoma also serves as the center of  कारोबार कार्यकलाप लिये the दक्षिण ध्वनि प्रदेश , जिससे रै a  population of around 1 million people .
Tacoma adopted its  नाम बाद the आसपास माउंट rainier , originally  called Mount Tahoma .
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was  चुनी to be the पश्चिमी टर्मिनस of the उत्तरी प्रशांत रेलरोड in the लेट 19th  century .
The decision of the railroad was  बहकावे by टकोमा 's neighboring deep-water हार्बर , शुरुआत  Bay .
By connecting the bay with the railroad  टकोमा 's motto became `` जब rails मिलें sails . ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of  टकोमा , a बीच of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार on the प्रशांत coast और वॉशिंगटन राज्य 's largest  port .
Like most central cities , Tacoma suffered a prolonged decline  in the mid-20th सदी as a परिणाम of suburbanization और  divestment .
Since the 1990s , developments in the downtown core include the University of Washington Tacoma ; Tacoma Link , the first modern  इलेक्ट्रिक लाइट रेल सेवा in the राज्य ; the राज्य 's उच्चतम घनत्व of आर्ट और इतिहास संग्रहालय ;  and a restored urban waterfront , the Thea Foss Waterway .
With a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad workers of the 19th century , to  the longshoremen of the 20th सदी , to the मजदूर तैयार मजदूर of आज — टकोमा रै long महरूम  known for its rough , gritty image .
A song about Tacoma , `` Thrice All American '' , by  अमरीकी singer-songwriter और पूर्व निवासी neko मामला , describes it as `` a dusty बूढ़ा गहना in the दक्षिण puget ध्वनि / जहाँ the  factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down '' .
tacoma-pierce काउंटी रै महरूम नामित एक of  the most livable areas in the country .
Tacoma was  भी recently सूचीबद्ध as the 19th सबसे  walkable city in the country .
In contrast , the city is  भी क्रमित as the सबसे stressed-out नगर in the देश  in a 2004 survey .
in 2006 , महिलाओं 's पत्रिका स्वः नामित टकोमा the `` सबसे sexually  Healthy City '' in the United States .
In 2012 , The  एडवोकेट दिया टकोमा the शीर्षक of `` gayest नगर in अमेरिका '' , in भाग क्युकी of the विशाल विविधता of पब्लिक कार्यालयों आयोजित , और  Washington State passing a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry .
Tacoma is famous  लिये the 1940 पतन of the टकोमा narrows  Bridge .
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the  दूसरी largest नगर in the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल , the सातवाँ largest नगर in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , the fourteenth largest city in the State of California , and the 77th-largest city in the United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 243,916 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Located  बस इससे शहर सैन डिएगो और इससे the मैक्सिकन किनारा in the दक्षिण खाड़ी प्रदेश of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल , the नगर is at  the center of one of the richest economic and culturally diverse zones in the United States .
Chula Vista is so  नामित क्युकी of इसके दर्शनीय स्थान between the सैन डिएगो  Bay and coastal mountain foothills .
संस्थापित in the जल्दी 19th सदी , तेज़ जनसांख्यिकी विकास रै  recently been observed in the city .
As the second largest  नगर in सैन डिएगो काउंटी , chula विस्टा रै जल्दी become a गंतव्य  popular to many tourists .
Located in the city is one of America 's few  year-round संयुक्त राज्य ओलम्पिक प्रशिक्षण centers और लोकप्रिय पर्यटक गंतव्यों शामिल क्रिकेट बेतार amphitheater , the  Chula Vista marina , and the Chula Vista Nature Center .
Metes and bounds is a system or method  of describing जमीन , रियल प्रॉपर्टी ( in कंट्रास्ट to निजी प्रॉपर्टी ) or रियल एस्टेट  .
The system  रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in इंग्लैण्ड लिये अनेक सदियां , और is स्टिल  used there in the definition of general boundaries .
By custom , it was applied in the original Thirteen Colonies that  became the संयुक्त राज्य , और in अनेक अन्य जमीन jurisdictions आधारित on अंग्रेज़ी आम विधि  .
Typically the system uses physical features of the local geography , along with directions and distances , to  define और describe the सीमाएँ of a पार्सल  of land .
The boundaries are described in a running prose  स्टाइल , working around the पार्सल in अनुक्रम , इससे a पाइंट of शुरूआत , returning वापस to  the same point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds .
It may  शामिल सन्दर्भ to अन्य adjoining parcels ( और उनके स्वामी ) , और it  , in turn , could also be referred to in later surveys .
At the time the description is compiled , it may have been marked on the ground with  स्थाई स्मारक लगाई जहाँ वहीँ यहूद no उपयुक्त प्राकृतिक स्मारक  .
The term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the measurement of  प्रत्येक सीधा चलाएं , निर्दिष्ट by a अलहदा between the टर्मिनल  points , and an orientation or direction .
a दिशा may be a सरल कम्पास bearing , or a precise  orientation determined by accurate survey methods .
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary  वर्णन , ऐसे as साथ a निश्चित watercourse , a स्टोन वॉल , an adjoining पब्लिक सड़क रास्ता  , or an existing building .
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g .  खेतो ) , और राजनैतिक subdivisions ( e.g . कस्बा सीमाएँ ) जहाँ precise परिभाषा is नहीं जरूरी or होता be दूर too महंगी , or previously  designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description .
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 ) was an English physicist and mathematician who is  widely regarded as एक of the सबसे influential वैज्ञानिकों of सब समय और as a कुंजी फिगर in the वैज्ञानिक क्रान्ति  .
उसके किताब philosophiæ naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया mathematica ( `` गणितीय सिद्धान्त of प्राकृतिक दर्शनशास्त्र '' ) , पहला प्रकाशित  in 1687 , laid the foundations for most of classical mechanics .
Newton also made seminal  योगदान to प्रकाशिकी और साझा क्रेडिट साथ गॉटफ्राइड लैबनिट्ज़ लिये the आविष्कार  of the infinitesimal calculus .
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation  कि वर्चस्व वैज्ञानिकों ' दृश्य of the शारीरिक ब्रह्मांड लिये the  next three centuries .
It also demonstrated that the motion of objects  on the धरती और कि of celestial लाशें could be वर्णित by the  same principles .
By  deriving कॅप्लर 's कानून of ग्रहीय गति इससे उसके गणितीय वर्णन of गम्भीरता , न्यूटन removed the पिछला संदेह परिचय  the validity of the heliocentric model of the cosmos .
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope and developed a theory of colour based on the observation  कि a प्रिज़्म decomposes श्वेत लाइट into the अनेक रंग  of the visible spectrum .
He also  प्रतिपादित an अनुभवजन्य विधि of कूलिंग और पढ़ाई the गति  of sound .
In addition to his work on the calculus , as a mathematician Newton  contributed to the पढ़ाई of शक्ति श्रेणी , generalised the द्विपद प्रमेय to non-integer exponents , और विकसित न्यूटन 's विधि लिये approximating the जड़ें  of a function .
Newton was a fellow of Trinity  कॉलेज और the दूसरी lucasian प्राध्यापक of गणित at  the University of Cambridge .
He was a devout but  अपरंपरागत ईसाई और , unusually लिये a सदस्य of the कैम्ब्रिज संकाय , he refused to लो पावन आदेश in the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड , शायद क्युकी  he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism .
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences , Newton also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy  और biblical कालक्रम , लकिन सबसे of उसके कार्य in those क्षेत्रों remained अप्रकाशित जबतक long बाद उसके  death .
In his later  जीवन , न्यूटन became अध्यक्ष of the  Royal Society .
He also served  the अंग्रेजों सरकारी as वार्डन और निपुण of the royal  Mint .
Prof. Walter Lewin  explains न्यूटन 's विधि of gravitation in  MIT course 8.01
Satellites and  projectiles सब obey न्यूटन 's विधि of  gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point mass in the universe attracts every other point mass with a force  कि is सीधे आंशिक to the उत्पाद of उनके masses और inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार of the अलहदा  between them .
(  separately it थी दिखाया कि विशाल spherically सममित masses आकर्षित और हैं आकर्षित as if सब उनके  mass were concentrated at their centers . )
This is a general  शारीरिक विधि निकला इससे अनुभवजन्य observations by कया न्यूटन  called induction .
It is a part of classical  यांत्रिकी और थी प्रतिपादित in न्यूटन 's कार्य philosophiæ naturalis प्रिन्सिपिया mathematica ( `` the प्रिन्सिपिया  '' ) , first published on 5 July 1687 .
( When Newton 's book was  प्रस्तुत in 1686 to the royal समाज , रॉबर्ट hooke बना a अर्जी कि न्यूटन था प्राप्त the  inverse square law from him – see History section below . )
In modern  भाषा , the विधि राज्य the following:
assuming si इकाई , f is measured in newtons ( n ) , m1 और m2 in गामा ( kg )  , r in meters ( m ) , and the constant G is approximately equal to .
The value of  the निरंतर g थी पहला accurately संकल्पित इससे the परिणाम of the कैवेंडिश प्रयोग conducted by the अंग्रेजों वैज्ञानिक हेनरी कैवेंडिश in 1798  , although Cavendish did not himself calculate a numerical value for G .
This experiment was also the first test of Newton 's  सिद्धान्त of gravitation between masses in the प्रयोगशाला  .
It took place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia and 71 years  बाद न्यूटन 's मौत , so none of न्यूटन 's calculations could उपयोग the मान of g ; बजाय he could तभी  calculate a force relative to another force .
Newton 's law of gravitation  resembles कूलम्ब 's विधि of विद्युत शक्तियां , जिससे is प्रयुक्त to गणना the परिमाण of विद्युत  force between two charged bodies .
Both are inverse-square laws , in  जिससे फ़ोर्स is inversely आंशिक to the वर्गाकार of the अलहदा  between the bodies .
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product of the masses  , और the electrostatic निरंतर in प्लेस of  the gravitational constant .
Newton  's विधि रै चूंकि महरूम superseded by आइंस्टीन 's सिद्धान्त of सामान्य आपेक्षिकता , लकिन it continues  to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity .
Relativity is  जरूरी तभी जब वहीँ is a need लिये चरम परिशुद्धता , or जब dealing साथ gravitation लिये  extremely massive and dense objects .
White and red flags , representing Iraqi and  अमरीकी मौतों , बैठना in the ग्रास चतुष्कोण of the घाटी पुस्तकालयों on the corvallis , ऑरेगॉन , कैम्पस of ऑरेगॉन  State University .
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count  प्रदर्शनी इससे 2008 to 2009 ( नहीं सम्बन्धित to इराकी देह गिनती प्रोजेक्ट ) , the ध्वज उद्देश्य to `` उठाएँ जागरूकता of the  human cost of the Iraq War . ''
( May  2008 )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion  of इराकी , और continuing साथ the ensuing occupation of इराकी , as खूब as the क्रियाएँ of the विभिन्न हथियारबंद समूह ऑपरेटिंग in the देश ) have आइये  in many forms , and the accuracy of the information available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly .
The table below  summarizes विभिन्न estimates of  the Iraqi casualty figures .
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational coalition , the death toll is carefully  tracked और अद्यतनीकृत रोज़ , और the names और छायाचित्र of those मारे in कार्रवाई as खूब as in दुर्घटनाओं have महरूम प्रकाशित widely  .
A total of 4,486 U.S.  सैनिको यहूद मारे in इराकी between  2003 and 2012 .
Regarding the Iraqis ,  however , सूचना on दोनो सैन्य और civilian  casualties is both less precise and less consistent .
Estimates of  casualty स्तर हैं उपलब्धियाँ इससे पत्रकारों on the झाँकी , इससे officials of शामिल संगठन  , and from groups that summarize information on incidents reported in the news media .
The word ``  हताहत `` in इसके सबसे सामान्य भाव शामिल the घायल  as well as the dead .
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely , partly because it is not obvious what should be counted :  चाहिए तभी those चोटों गंभीर पर्याप्त to put a सिपाही आउट of आयोग  be included ?
Do illnesses or injuries  caused by दुर्घटनाओं गिनती , or चाहिए the फ़ोकस be प्रतिबंधित to wounds  caused by hostile engagement ?
Sources using different  परिभाषाएं may arrive at बहुत अलग संख्याएँ , और sometimes the precise  definition is not clearly specified .
asalto al coche ( डकैती of the कोच ) , by  Francisco de Goya
a highwayman थी a चोर और brigand  who preyed on travellers .
This type of outlaw usually travelled and robbed by  घोड़ा , as compared to a footpad जो travelled और robbed  on foot .
Mounted  लुटेरों यहूद widely माना to be socially  superior to footpads .
Such robbers operated in Great Britain  और आयरलैंड इससे the elizabethan era जबतक the जल्दी 19th सदी  .
The word highwayman is first known to be used in the  साल 1617 ; अन्य euphemisms शामिल `` शूरवीरों of the सड़क '' और `` सज्जनों of the  road . ''
Two terms  लागू to 19th-century उत्तर अमरीकी highwaymen यहूद सड़क एजेंटों in कुछ उदाहरण लिये पहाड़ डाकुओं जबकि in अन्य  cases the term is Rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians .
In the same time period in Australia ,  वे यहूद ज्ञात as bushrangers  .
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson , Jr. ( born August 14 , 1959 ) is a retired  अमरीकी पेशेवर बास्केट खिलाड़ी जो निभाई पाइंट गार्ड लिये the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स of the नेशनल बास्केट  Association ( NBA ) .
After  जीतना championships in ऊँची स्कूल और कॉलेज , जॉनसन  was selected first overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers .
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most Valuable  खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार in उसके रुकी ऋतु , और जीती चार अधिक championships साथ the लेकर्स दौरान the  1980s .
Johnson retired abruptly in 1991 after announcing that he had contracted HIV  , लकिन लौटे to खेल in the 1992 all-star खेल , जीतना the all-star mvp  Award .
After protests from his fellow players , he retired again for four  सालो , लकिन लौटे in 1996 , at आयु 36 , to खेल 32 खेल लिये the लेकर्स पहले retiring लिये  the third and final time .
Johnson 's career  उपलब्धियाँ शामिल तीन एनबीए mvp पुरस्कार , नौ एनबीए फाइनल दिखावे , बारह all-star खेल ,  and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations .
He led the league in  regular-season assists चार टाइम्स , और is the एनबीए 's all-time नेता in औसत  assists per game , at 11.2 .
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream  टोली `` , the u.S. बास्केट टोली कि जीती the ओलम्पिक सुनहरा पदक  in 1992 .
After leaving the NBA in 1992 ,  जॉनसन formed the जादू जॉनसन all-stars , a barnstorming टोली कि travelled  around the world playing exhibition games .
Johnson was honored as one of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA  इतिहास in 1996 , और enshrined in the बास्केट हॉल of कीर्ति in 2002  .
he थी रेटेड the महानतम एनबीए पाइंट गार्ड of  all time by ESPN in 2007 .
उसके दोस्ती और फंसने साथ बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स स्टार लैरी बर्ड , जिसको he  faced in the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA championship series , were well documented .
Since his retirement , Johnson has been an  एडवोकेट लिये hiV/ एड्स रोकथाम और सुरक्षित sex , as खूब as an उद्योगों  , philanthropist , broadcaster and motivational speaker .
Johnson was a  part-owner of the लेकर्स लिये अनेक सालो , और थी भाग of a समूह कि  purchased the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012 .
Allium cells  in अलग phases of  the cell cycle
The  कोशिकाएं of eukaryotes ( बाएँ )  and prokaryotes ( right )
The cell is the basic structural ,  कार्यात्मक और biological ईकाई of सब ज्ञात जीना जीवों .
It is the smallest unit of life that is  वर्गीकृत as a जीना बात ( मगर वायरस , जिससे consists तभी इससे dna/rna covered by प्रोटीन  and lipids ) , and is often called the building block of life .
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a  झिल्ली , जिससे contains अनेक biomolecules ऐसे as प्रोटीन  and nucleic acids .
Organisms can be classified as unicellular (  consisting of a सिंगल कोशिका ; सहित सबसे जीवाणु ) or बहुकोशिकीय ( सहित पौधे और पशु  ) .
While the number of cells in  पौधे और पशु varies इससे प्रजाति to प्रजाति , इंसानो contain परिचय  100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells .
Most plant and animal  कोशिकाएं हैं between 1 और 100 micrometres और इसलिए हैं दृश्य तभी अंतर्गत  the microscope .
The cell  थी खोजा by रॉबर्ट hooke  in 1665 .
The cell theory , first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann , states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells , that all cells come from  preexisting कोशिकाएं , कि vital कृत्यों of an सजीव occur भीतर कोशिकाएं , और कि सब कोशिकाएं contain the खानदानी सूचना जरुरी लिये regulating कोशिका कृत्यों और  for transmitting information to the next generation of cells .
Cells  उभरा on ग्रह धरती at तनिक 4.0–4.3 अरब  years ago .
The word cell  आता इससे the लैटिन गर्भगृह , अर्थ ``  small room '' .
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological structure was coined by  रॉबर्ट hooke in a किताब he प्रकाशित in 1665 जब he compared the कॉर्क कोशिकाएं he देखी through  his microscope to the small rooms monks lived in .
Grecian Formula is a men 's  बाल coloring उत्पाद in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Canada  और यूरोपीय previously बैन the उत्पाद क्युकी  of its use of lead acetate .
A  मोटर स्कूटर 's सामने साथ an अव्यवहारिक क्रमांक और किस्में  of headlamps , added for decorative purposes
A headlamp is a lamp  संलग्न to the सामने of a गाडी to लाइट the सड़क ahead  .
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age , spurred by the great disparity between daytime and nighttime  ट्रैफ़िक fatalities : the u.S. नेशनल राजमार्ग ट्रैफ़िक सुरक्षा प्रशासन राज्य कि nearly हाफ of सब traffic-related fatalities occur in the अंधेरा , despite तभी 25 % of ट्रैफ़िक यात्राएं दौरान  darkness .
जबकि it is आम लिये the पद हेडलाइट to be प्रयुक्त interchangeably in अनौपचारिक चर्चा , headlamp is the पद लिये the  device itself , while headlight properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device .
Other vehicles , such as trains  और वायुयान , हैं जरूरी to have  headlamps .
Bicycle headlamps are often used on  साइकिल , और हैं जरूरी in कुछ jurisdictions  .
They can be powered by  a बैटरी or a छोटी विद्युत सृजनकर्ता on the व्हील  .
Additionally automotive night  दृष्टि प्रणालियों कार्य to संपूरक headlamps  .
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed  लिये महिलाओं और लड़कियों of अनेक समाजों विश्वव्यापी  .
in कुछ स्थान ये अधिकारों हैं institutionalized or समर्थित by विधि , लोकल कस्टम , और आचरण  , whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed .
They differ from  broader धारणाएं of इंसान अधिकारों through दावा of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह विरूद्ध the कसरत  of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys .
मुद्दे commonly संबद्ध साथ धारणाएं of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों शामिल , हालांकि हैं नहीं सीमित to , the सही : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or  equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( ,  ( born नवम्बर 13 , 1955 ) is an अमरीकी comedienne , अभिनेत्री , singer-songwriter , राजनैतिक activist , लेखक  and talk show host .
Goldberg made her film debut  in the रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ) , playing celie , a mistreated ब्लैक  woman in the Deep South .
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for  बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री और जीती उसके पहला सुनहरी ग्लोब  Award for her role in the film .
In 1990 ,  वो निभाई oda mae भूरा , a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक swayze ) सहेजें उसके प्रेमी  ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting  अभिनेत्री ; इस बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the इतिहास of the अकादमी पुरस्कार to जीत an एक्टिंग oscar—the  first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2 , The  खिलाड़ी , बना in अमेरिका , कैसा स्टेला मिला उसके नाली वापस , लड़की , बाधित  and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her  भूमिकाएँ as the बारटेंडर guinan in स्टार ट्रेक : the अगला पीढी , as टेरी doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर फ्लैश , और as कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली , as  well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King .
Goldberg has been  मनोनीत लिये 13 एमी पुरस्कार लिये उसके कार्य in टेलीविज़न  .
She was co-producer of the  लोकप्रिय खेल दिखाएँ हॉलीवुड वर्गों इससे  1998 to 2004 .
She has been the moderator of the  दिन बात दिखाएँ the दृश्य चूंकि  2007 .
गोल्डबर्ग रै a ग्रैमी , दो दिन emmys , दो सुनहरी ग्लोब्स , a टोनी ( लिये उत्पादन  , not acting ) , and an Oscar .
In addition  , गोल्डबर्ग रै a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार , चार लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार , और  has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is one  of the few मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have जीती an एमी , ग्रैमी , ऑस्कर , और  Tony Award .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is  an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब  , of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered  in नई यॉर्क नगर , the एनएचएल is widely माना to be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग in the संसार , और एक of the प्रमुख  professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest professional sports trophy in North America , is  awarded annually to the लीग playoff चैंपियन at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक ऋतु  .
The league was organized on November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal ,  क्यूबेक , कनाडा , बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके पूर्ववर्ती संगठन , the नेशनल  Hockey Association ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started with four teams and , through a  श्रेणी of expansions , contractions , और relocations , the लीग is अभी रचित of 30 क्रियाशील  franchises .
The nation to which the  नाम of the लीग originally referred थी कनाडा , हालांकि the लीग रै अभी महरूम binational चूंकि 1924  when it expanded into the United States .
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05  ऋतु , the लीग resumed खेल अंतर्गत a नई सामूहिक bargaining अनुबंध कि शामिल  a salary cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of  sponsorships , उपस्थिति , और टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस  .
The NHL  draws अनेक अत्यधिक skilled खिलाड़ी इससे सब over the संसार और फिलहाल  has players from about 20 different countries .
Although Canadians  have historically गठित the बहुमत of the खिलाड़ी in the एनएचएल , over the पास्ट चार प्लस दशकों the percentages of us और यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी have  increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
maggots feeding on carrion  .
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is applied in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran  उड़ता , ऐसे as houseflies , चीज उड़ता , और blowflies , बल्कि than लार्वे of the nematocera , ऐसे as मच्छरों  and Crane flies .
`` Maggot '' is not a technical term and should not be taken as such ; in many standard  पाठ्यपुस्तकों of कीटविज्ञान it करता नहीं appear in the अनुक्रमणिका at सब  .
in अनेक non-technical ग्रन्थ the पद is  used for insect larvae in general .
Other  स्त्रोत have coined उनके अपना परिभाषाएं ; लिये  example : `` ...
The term applies to a  ग्रब जब सब ट्रेस of limbs रै disappeared ... '' और `` ... लागू to the footless  larvae of Dipters . ''
Maggot-like fly  लार्वे हैं of चौड़ी महत्व in पारिस्थितिकी और आयुर्विज्ञान ; among अन्य भूमिकाएँ , विभिन्न प्रजाति  are prominent in recycling carrion and garbage , attacking crops and foodstuffs , spreading microbial infections , and causing myiasis .
Herod ( , Hordos ,  यूनानी : , hērōdēs ) , भी ज्ञात as हेरोदेस the ग्रेट ( 73/74 bce – 4 bce  in Jericho ) , was a Roman client king of Judea .
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed  as he is वर्णित as `` a madman जो murdered उसके अपना परिवार  and a great many rabbis `` .
He is also known for his colossal  भवन प्रोजेक्ट in जेरूसलम और elsewhere , सहित उसके विस्तार of the दूसरी टेम्पल in जेरूसलम ( sometimes  referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima .
Important  विवरण of उसके जीवनी हैं gleaned इससे the works of the 1st सदी ce roman–jewish  historian Josephus Flavius .
The Romans made Herod 's son , Herod Archelaus  , ethnarch of judea , samaria , और idumea ( biblical edom ) इससे 4 bce to 6 ce , referred to as the  tetrarchy of Judea .
Archelaus was  judged incompetent by the रोमन सम्राट augustus जो तब संयुक्त samaria , judea उचित  and Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41 .
Herod 's other son Herod Antipas was tetrarch of  galilee इससे 4 bce–39 ce  .
ABO blood  समूह antigens उपस्थित on रेड रक्त कोशिकाएं और  IgM antibodies present in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most  महत्वपूर्ण रक्त प्रकार प्रणाली ( or रक्त समूह प्रणाली ) in इंसान  blood transfusion .
The associated anti-A and anti-B antibodies are usually  igm antibodies , जिससे हैं प्रायः उत्पादित in the पहला सालो of जीवन by sensitization to पर्यावरणीय substances ऐसे as खाना  , bacteria , and viruses .
ABO blood types are also present in some other animals , for  उदाहरण apes ऐसे as chimpanzees , bonobos  , and gorillas .
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a common year starting on  मंगलवार ( कड़ी होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a आम साल starting on सोमवार of the 13-day-slower जूलियन पंचांग  .
Northville is an affluent city located in and  विभाजित by ओकलैंड और वेन काउंटी in the u.S.  state of Michigan .
The  क्षेत्रफल is a उपनगरीय of महानगर  Detroit .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,970  at the 2010 census .
Most of the city is in  ओकलैंड काउंटी , और is घिरी  by the city of Novi .
The Wayne  काउंटी portion is घिरी by northville township  .
Northville is served  by northville पब्लिक स्कूलों  .
The city is  स्तिथ पूर्वोत्तर of ऐन arbor और उत्तरपश्चिम  of Detroit .
Elaine Stritch  ( born फ़रवरी 2 , 1925 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  and vocalist .
She has appeared in numerous stage  plays और musicals , विशेषता films , और अनेक  television programs .
She is known for her performance of `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in  स्टीफन sondheim 's 1970 musical कम्पनी , उसके 2001 one-woman दिखाएँ , ऐलेन stritch at स्वतंत्रता , और recently  for her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock .
She has been  मनोनीत लिये the टोनी पुरस्कार पाँच  times in various categories .
Stritch  is भी a three-time एमी पुरस्कार  winner .
Misfits  is a अंग्रेजों विज्ञान fiction comedy-drama टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ परिचय a समूह of यंग अपराधियों sentenced to कार्य in a जातियाँ  service programme , where they obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm .
the श्रेणी खोली in 2009  and is currently ongoing .
Antonia Thomas , Iwan Rheon , Lauren  socha , नाथन stewart-jarrett , और रॉबर्ट sheehan हैं  introduced as Alisha Daniels , Simon Bellamy , Kelly Bailey , Curtis Donovan , and Nathan Young respectively .
Sheehan left after  the दूसरी श्रेणी , replaced in the तीसरा by जोसेफ gilgun  as Rudy Wade .
After the fourth series was announced Rheon , Thomas and Socha had left their roles  और होता be replaced by नई वर्ण कार्ला crome , नाथन mcmullen और मैट stokoe , as जेस , फिन और एलेक्स क्रमशः  .
Midway through the fourth  श्रेणी , stewart-jarrett बाएँ जबकि नताशा o'keeffe joined the डाल as ऐबी  Smith .
On 19 March 2013 , Channel 4 announced at a press event  कि वे have नवीनीकृत misfits लिये a पांचवां और फाइनल श्रेणी containing 8 एपीसोड  .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10 , 1969  ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक जो खर्च the बहुमत of उसके करियर  with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL , having played  क्वार्टरबैक लिये the अटलांटा falcons ( 1991 ) , ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स  ( 1992 – 2007 ) , New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre  is the तभी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास to throw लिये over 70,000 गज  , over 500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over 6,000 completions , and over 10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback  स्थिति लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी मिसिसिपी लिये चार सालो  before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ) .
he थी traded to ग्रीन खाड़ी on फ़रवरी 10 , 1992  , for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft .
Favre became the  पैकर्स ' starting क्वार्टरबैक in the चौथी खेल of the 1992 ऋतु , stepping in लिये घायल क्वार्टरबैक  Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to the New York Jets and  प्रारंभ at क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 ऋतु पहले हस्ताक्षर साथ the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18 , 2009 as उनके  starting quarterback .
He made an NFL record 297  लगातार starts ( 321 सहित playoffs ) .
He  is the तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत the  AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight division  championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , पाँच nfc चैंपियनशिप खेल  ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He  holds अनेक एनएफएल रिकॉर्ड , सहित सबसे करियर touchdown गुजरता , सबसे करियर गुजर गज , सबसे करियर pass completions , सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें , सबसे करियर interceptions thrown , सबसे लगातार starts  by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
He is also  referred to by उसके उपनाम `` the gunslinger  '' .
The  following is a सूची of notable वायुयान hijackings  around the world .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly known  as the वेब ) , is a प्रणाली of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ पहुँचा via the अंतरजाल  .
With a web  ब्राउजर , एक can दृश्य वेब पृष्ठों कि may contain टेक्स्ट , बिंब , वीडियो , और अन्य  multimedia , and navigate between them via hyperlinks .
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE , British engineer , computer scientist and at that time  कर्मचारी of the cern , सर टिम berners-lee , अभी निदेशक of the संसार चौड़ी वेब consortium ( w3c ) , लिखा a प्रस्ताव in  March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and Belgian computer  वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और अभिगम सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of नोड in जिससे the उपयोक्ता can ब्राउज़ at होगा '' , और वे सरेआम  introduced the project in December of the same year .
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20 , 1900July 22 , 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from Oregon , United States , known for his  proclivity लिये opposing उसके पार्टियों ' नेतृत्व , और specifically लिये उसके विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध on संवैधानिक grounds  .
Born in Madison , Wisconsin , and educated at the  विश्वविद्यालयों of wisconsin-madison और the विश्वविद्यालयों of मिनेसोटा विधि स्कूल , मोर्स स्थानांतरित to ऑरेगॉन in 1930  and began teaching at the University of Oregon School of Law .
During World War II he was elected to the United States  सीनेट as a रिपब्लिकन ; he became an स्वतंत्र बाद ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर 's चुनाव to the प्रेसिडेंसी  in 1952 .
While an  स्वतंत्र , he नियत a रिकार्ड लिये performing the दूसरी  longest one-person filibuster in the history of the Senate .
Morse  joined the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी in 1955 , और थी reelected  twice while a member of that party .
Morse made a brief run for  the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी 's अध्यक्षीय नामांकन  in 1960 .
A  few सालो बाद , मोर्स थी एक of तभी दो सीनेटरों जो opposed the गल्फ of tonkin रेज़ोल्यूशन , जिससे प्राधिकृत  the president to take military action in Vietnam without a declaration of war .
He continued to speak out  विरूद्ध the युद्ध in the ensuing सालो , और खोया उसके 1968 बोली लिये reelection  to Bob Packwood , who criticized his strong opposition to the war .
Morse made two  अधिक बोलियों लिये reelection to the सीनेट पहले उसके मौत in 1974  .
In parliamentary  कार्यविधि , a गति to तालिका रै दो अलग  and contradictory meanings:
In the United States , to table usually means the to lay [ the topic ]  on the तालिका or to मूव लिये postponement of विचार ; a प्रस्ताव to बर्खास्तगी विचार of  a pending motion .
Much less often , it means a motion to  `` put on the तालिका '' : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू विचार ( or reconsideration  ) , a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world .
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom , to table means to  मूव to प्लेस [ the टॉपिक ] upon the तालिका ( or to मूव to प्लेस on the तालिका ) : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू विचार ( or reconsideration  ) of a proposal .
Both the American and the British dialects have the sense of  `` to तालिका '' as to lay [ the टॉपिक ] on the तालिका or to कारण [ the टॉपिक  ] to lie on the table .
The difference is  the विचार of कया the तालिका is लिये , कि of  a shelf off to the side , or an active work bench .
The British meaning has the sense of the table as being an active work bench ,  साथ the टॉपिक होने the बीच of ध्यान , माना और discussed by सब जबतक it can be resolved , at जिससे पाइंट it is लिया बंद the  'table ' .
The American sense is that the table is like that of a shelf , archive ,  or long-term भंडार यंत्र , जहाँ the टॉपिक रै महरूम disposed of by sending it to the 'table  ' and leaving it there .
Toy Story 3 is a  2010 अमरीकी 3d कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड comedy-drama थाना फिल्मी , और the तीसरा किश्त  in the Toy Story series .
It was produced by Pixar Animation  studios और वितरित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी तस्वीरें  .
Directed by Lee  unkrich , the फिल्मी थी released विश्वव्यापी इससे जून through अक्तूबर in डिज़्नी डिजिटल  3-D , RealD , and IMAX 3D .
Toy Story 3 was also  the पहला फिल्मी to be released theatrically साथ dolby  Surround 7.1 sound .
The  पटकथा थी लिखा by माइकल arndt , जबकि unkrich लिखा the स्टोरी साथ साथ जॉन lasseter और  Andrew Stanton , respectively director and co-writer of the two first films .
The plot focuses on the toys Woody , Buzz Lightyear ,  और उनके मित्रों dealing साथ an अनिश्चित भविष्य as उनके मालिक , एंडी , prepares  to leave for college .
Actors Tom Hanks , Tim Allen , Joan Cusack , Don Rickles , Estelle Harris , John Ratzenberger , Wallace Shawn , Jeff Pidgeon , Jodi Benson  , R. ली ermey , जॉन मॉरिस , और लॉरी metcalf reprised उनके voice-over भूमिकाएँ इससे the पिछला films  .
Jim Varney , who played Slinky  श्वान in the पहला दो films , और जो ranft , जो portrayed lenny और wheezy , दोनो died पहले  production began on Toy Story 3 .
The role of Slinky Dog was taken over by Blake  क्लार्क ( a dost of varney ) , जबकि ranft 's वर्ण और विभिन्न अन्य यहूद लिखा आउट of the स्टोरी  .
New characters include  प्रदर्शन by ned beatty , टिमोथी डाल्टन , क्रिस्टन schaal , bonnie  Hunt , Whoopi Goldberg , Jeff Garlin , Richard Kind , and Michael Keaton .
The feature broke  shrek the तिहाई रिकार्ड as the biggest खोलने दिन उत्तर अमरीकी सकल  for an animated film unadjusted for inflation , and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189 .
It is also the highest-grossing opening weekend for a Pixar  फिल्मी , as खूब as the highest-grossing खोलने वीकेंड लिये a फिल्मी to have खोली  in the month of June .
इस is the highest-grossing फिल्मी of 2010 , दोनो in the संयुक्त राज्य  and Canada , and worldwide .
In early August , it became Pixar 's highest-grossing film at the North American box office ( surpassing Finding Nemo ) , and  the highest-grossing एनिमेटेड फिल्मी of सब समय विश्वव्यापी ( surpassing shrek 2 ) ; बाद कि माह , खिलौना स्टोरी 3 became the पहला कभी एनिमेटेड फिल्मी in  history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide .
It is currently  the 10th-highest-grossing फिल्मी  of all time .
खिलौना स्टोरी 3 थी मनोनीत लिये पाँच अकादमी पुरस्कार , सहित  Best Picture , Best Adapted Screenplay , and Best Sound Editing .
It was the third animated film ( after Beauty  और the जानवर और up ) to be मनोनीत लिये अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन  Picture .
It won the awards for Best  एनिमेटेड विशेषता और बेहतरीन असली सोंग  .
John  levell starks ( born अगस्त 10 , 1965 ) is an अमरीकी  retired professional basketball shooting guard .
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and 190  पाउंड दौरान उसके एनबीए playing करियर .
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending  चार कॉलेजों in उसके देशी ओक्लाहोमा , सहित ओक्लाहोमा राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों , he gained कीर्ति जबकि playing लिये the नई यॉर्क knicks of the नेशनल बास्केट  Association in the 1990s .
सुरक्षित डिजिटल or ( sd ) is a non-volatile मेमोरी कार्ड स्वरूप लिये उपयोग in पोर्टेबल डिवाइस , ऐसे as  mobile phones , digital cameras , GPS navigation devices , and tablet computers .
The  सुरक्षित डिजिटल मानक is कायम by  the SD Card Association ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400  ब्रांड्स आरपार दर्जनों of उत्पाद श्रेणी और अधिक than 8,000 मॉडल  .
The Secure Digital  स्वरूप शामिल चार कार्ड परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन अलग रूप कारकों  .
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ) , the  high-capacity ( sdhc ) , the extended-capacity ( sdxc ) , और the sdio , जिससे combines input/output कृत्यों साथ आंकड़ा  storage .
The three  रूप कारकों हैं the असली आकार , the `` मिनी '' आकार , और the ``  micro '' size ( see illustration ) .
There are many  combinations of रूप कारकों और यंत्र परिवारों  .
Electrically passive adapters allow the use  of a छोटी कार्ड in a मेजबान यंत्र निर्मित to थाम a larger कार्ड .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification  provide पिछड़ा संगतता और accept पुरानी sd ताश , लकिन इस आलेख explains अनेक कारकों कि can  prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may offer  वृहद क्षमता than the मेजबान यंत्र can  handle .
A newer  कार्ड may उपयोग a संचिका प्रणाली the मेजबान यंत्र  can not navigate .
Use of an SDIO card requires the host  यंत्र be designed लिये the input/output कृत्यों the कार्ड  provides .
the संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला starting  with the SDHC family .
Some  विक्रेता उत्पादित sdsc ताश ऊपर 1 gb पहले the  SDA had standardized a method of doing so .
The SDA uses  अनेक trademarked लोगो to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ  and assure users of compatibility .
ह्यूज जॉन mungo ग्रान्ट ( born 9 सितंबर 1960 ) is a  British actor and film producer .
He has  प्राप्त a सुनहरी ग्लोब , a bafta ,  and an Honorary César .
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4  अरब इससे 25 नाट्य रिलीज विश्वव्यापी  .
ग्रान्ट हासिल अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्टारडम बाद appearing in रिचर्ड कर्टिस  's successful Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ) .
he प्रयुक्त इस भेदन भूमिका as a बारंबार cinematic persona दौरान the 1990s  , delivering comic performances in mainstream films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ) .
By the turn of the 21st century , he had  स्थापित खुद as a अग्रणी man skilled साथ a satirical कॉमिक  talent .
Grant has expanded  उसके oeuvre साथ critically acclaimed turns as a कैड in ब्रिजेट जोन्स 's डायरी ( 2001 ) , परिचय  A Boy ( 2002 ) , Love Actually ( 2003 ) , and American Dreamz ( 2006 ) .
He later played  विरूद्ध प्रकार साथ अनेक कैमियो भूमिकाएँ in the एपिक नाटक फिल्मी  Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ) .
Within the film industry , Grant is cited as an anti-film star who  approaches उसके भूमिकाएँ जैसे a अक्षर कर्ता , और कोशिशें to मेक उसके एक्टिंग appear spontaneous  .
Hallmarks of his comic skills  शामिल a nonchalant टच of विडंबना / sarcasm और पढ़ाई शारीरिक  mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions .
The  entertainment मीडिया 's कवरेज of ग्रान्ट 's जीवन बंद the बिग  screen has often overshadowed his work as a thespian .
He has been vocal about his disrespect for the  व्यवसायिक of एक्टिंग , और in उसके तिरस्कार towards  the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media .
In a career spanning 30 years ,  ग्रान्ट रै repeatedly claimed कि एक्टिंग is नहीं a सच्चा कॉलिंग  but just a job he fell into .
The Han Dynasty ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 AD ) was an imperial dynasty of China , preceded  by the qin राजवंश ( 221–207 bc ) और succeeded by the तीन kingdoms ( 220–280 ad ) .
It was founded by the rebel  नेता लियू बंग , ज्ञात मरणोपरांत  as Emperor Gaozu of Han .
It was briefly interrupted by the Xin  राजवंश ( 9–23 ad ) of the पूर्व रीजेंट वांग mang  .
This interregnum separates the Han  into दो अवधि : the पश्चिमी हान ( 206 bc – 9 ad ) और  Eastern Han ( 25–220 AD ) .
Spanning over four centuries , the period of the  हान राजवंश is माना a सुनहरी आयु in चाइनीज इतिहास .
To this day , China 's majority ethnic group refers  to itself as the `` हान लोगों '' और the चाइनीज स्क्रिप्ट is referred to  as `` Han characters `` .
The Han Empire  थी विभाजित into क्षेत्रों सीधे नियंत्रित by the सेंट्रल सरकारी  , known as commanderies , and a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms .
ये kingdoms धीरे खोया सब vestiges of उनके स्वतंत्रता , विशेषकर  following the Rebellion of the Seven States .
The Xiongnu , a nomadic  कनफेडरेशन जिससे वर्चस्व the पूर्वी यूरेशियाई स्तान , पराजित the हान  army in battle in 200 BC .
following the शिकस्त , a राजनैतिक विवाह गठबंधन थी negotiated  in which the Han became the de facto inferior partner .
When ,  despite the सन्धि , the xiongnu जारी to रेड हान सीमायें , सम्राट  Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 BC ) launched several military campaigns against them .
The ultimate Han victory in these wars eventually forced  the xiongnu to accept vassal औकात as  Han tributaries .
These campaigns expanded Han sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped  स्थापित the विशाल व्यापार संजाल ज्ञात as the रेशा सड़क  , which reached as far as the Mediterranean world .
Han forces managed to  divide the xiongnu into दो स्पर्धा राष्ट्र , the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी xiongnu , और मजबूर the  Northern Xiongnu across the Ili River .
despite ये victories , the territories उत्तर of हान 's  borders were quickly overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation .
After 92 AD , the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court  राजनीती , engaging in हिंसक शक्ति struggles between the विभिन्न consort clans of the empresses और सम्राज्ञी dowagers , causing the हान 's परम downfall  .
Imperial authority was also seriously  challenged by विशाल daoist धार्मिक समाजों जिससे instigated the पीला पगड़ी विद्रोह और the पाँच pecks of राइस विद्रोह  .
Following the death of Emperor Ling ( r.  168–189 ad ) , the राजमहल हिजड़े suffered होलसेल नरसंहार by सैन्य अधिकारियों , allowing सदस्यों of the aristocracy और सैन्य राज्यपालों  to become warlords and divide the empire .
When Cao Pi , King of Wei  , usurped the सिंहासन इससे सम्राट  Xian , the Han Dynasty ceased to exist .
The Han  राजवंश थी an आयु of आर्थिक समृद्धि और देखी a significant विकास of the धन अर्थव्यवस्था पहला स्थापित  during the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ) .
The coinage issued by the  सेंट्रल सरकारी मिंट in 119 bc remained the मानक coinage of चीन जबतक the तंग राजवंश  ( 618–907 AD ) .
To pay for its  सैन्य अभियान और the उपनिवेश of newly conquered frontier territories , the सरकारी राष्ट्रीयकृत the  private salt and iron industries in 117 BC .
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period  , और the खोया आय थी recouped through heavily taxing निजी उद्यमियों .
The emperor  थी at the शिखर of हान समाज  .
He presided over the Han government but shared power with both the nobility  और नियुक्त मंत्रियों जो आए largely इससे the scholarly gentry क्लास  .
From the reign of Emperor Wu onward , the Chinese court officially sponsored Confucianism  in शिक्षा और अदालत राजनीती , synthesized साथ the cosmology of बाद विद्वानों  such as Dong Zhongshu .
This policy endured until  the पतन of the चिंग राजवंश in 1911 ad  .
Science and technology during the Han period  देखी significant अग्रिम , सहित papermaking , the nautical परिचालन अरित्र , the उपयोग of ऋणात्मक संख्याएँ in गणित , the raised-relief मैप , the हाइड्रोलिक  -powered armillary sphere for astronomy , and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum .
Tourette  सिंड्रोम ( भी पुकारा tourette 's सिंड्रोम , tourette 's विकार , गाइल्स de la tourette सिंड्रोम , gts or , अधिक commonly , बस tourette 's or ts ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric विकार  with onset in childhood , characterized by multiple physical ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic .
ये tics characteristically मोम और wane , can be suppressed  temporarily , and are preceded by a premonitory urge .
tourette 's is पारिभाषित as भाग of a वर्णक्रम of टिक विकार , जिससे शामिल  transient and chronic tics .
Tourette 's was once  माना a विरल और विचित्र सिंड्रोम , सबसे प्रायः संबद्ध साथ the मुँह of obscene शब्द or socially अनुचित और  derogatory remarks ( coprolalia ) , but this symptom is present in only a small minority of people with Tourette 's .
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition , but it is not  सदा correctly पहचाना क्युकी सबसे मामले हैं mild और the गंभीरता of tics  decreases for most children as they pass through adolescence .
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of transient  और दीर्घकालिक tics in school-age children is उच्चतर , साथ the अधिक आम tics of नजर blinking , खाँसी , गला clearing , सूँघने , और फेशियल  movements .
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity , and Tourette 's does not  adversely affect प्रज्ञा  or life expectancy .
Genetic and environmental factors play a role  in the etiology of tourette 's , लकिन the सटीक कल्याणकारी हैं  unknown .
In most cases  , दवा is अनावश्यक  .
There is no  प्रभावी उपचार लिये प्रत्येक मामला of tics , लकिन निश्चित medications और therapies  can help when their use is warranted .
शिक्षा is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of कोई उपचार योजना , और स्पष्टीकरण और reassurance अलोन  are often sufficient treatment .
Comorbid  शर्तें ( co-occurring diagnoses अन्य than tourette 's ) ऐसे as attention-deficit अतिसक्रियता विकार ( adhd ) और obsessive–compulsive  disorder ( OCD ) are present in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics .
These other conditions often cause more functional impairment  to the व्यक्तिगत than the tics कि हैं the hallmark of tourette 's , hence it is महत्वपूर्ण  to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them .
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of his  निवासी , जॉर्जेस अल्बर्ट édouard ब्रूटस गाइल्स de la tourette ( 1859–1904 ) , a फ्रेंच चिकित्सक और neurologist , जो प्रकाशित an खाता of नौ मरीजों  with Tourette 's in 1885 .
सनबीम बैज  .
Sunbeam was a marque registered  by जॉन marston co. ltd of wolverhampton  , England , in 1888 .
the कम्पनी पहला बना साइकिल , तब मोटरसाइकिल और गाड़ियाँ इससे the लेट 19th सदी  until about 1936 , and applied the marque to all three forms of transportation .
The company also manufactured aero  इंजन in the पहला संसार युद्ध और 647 वायुयान दौरान the  Second World War .
A Sunbeam was the  पहला अंग्रेजों car to जीत a ग्रैंड प्रिक्स रेस  , and set a number of land speed records .
The company went into  receivership in 1935 और थी खरीदा by the rootes समूह , जिससे जारी  to use the Sunbeam marque .
Fox News Channel ( FNC ) , also known as Fox  न्यूज , is a केबल न्यूज चैनल स्वामित्व by the फॉक्स entertainment समूह , a subsidiary  of News Corporation .
As of April 2009 , the channel was available to 102 million households in  the संयुक्त राज्य और to दर्शक internationally , प्रसारण primarily इससे इसके नई  York studios .
The  चैनल थी निर्मित by australian-american मीडिया mogul रुपर्ट  Murdoch , who hired former NBC executive Roger Ailes as its founding CEO .
It  शुभारम्भ on अक्तूबर 7 , 1996 to  17 million cable subscribers .
It grew  दौरान the लेट 1990s और 2000s to become the  dominant cable news network in the United States .
Critics have stated that Fox News Channel promotes  रूढ़िवादी राजनैतिक स्थितियाँ और पक्षपातपूर्ण  reporting .
Commentators , news anchors , and reporters at Fox News  चैनल have responded कि न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग और राजनैतिक commentary operate independently  of each other , and have denied any bias in news reporting .
The  mandibular पहला molar or six-year molar is the दाँत स्तिथ distally ( दूर इससे the midline of the फेस ) इससे दोनो the mandibular दूसरी  premolars of the mouth but mesial ( toward the midline of the face ) from both mandibular second molars .
it is स्तिथ on the mandibular ( निम्नतर ) मेहराब of the मुँह , और generally  opposes the maxillary ( upper ) first molars and the maxillary 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion .
The function of this molar is similar to that of all molars in regard to grinding  होने the प्रिंसिपल कार्रवाई दौरान mastication , commonly ज्ञात as चबाने  .
वहीँ हैं प्रायः पाँच well-developed पुलिन on mandibular पहला molars : दो on the buccal  ( side nearest the cheek ) , two lingual ( side nearest the tongue ) , and one distal .
There are great  मतभेद between the पतझड़ी ( baby ) mandibular molars और those of the स्थाई mandibular  molars , even though their function are similar .
The permanent  mandibular molars हैं नहीं माना to have कोई दांत कि precede  it .
Despite being named molars , the  पतझड़ी molars हैं followed by स्थाई  premolars .
In the universal system  of संकेतन , the पतझड़ी mandibular पहला molars हैं designated by a अक्षर  written in uppercase .
The right deciduous mandibular  पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` s '' , और the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` l  '' .
The international notation  रै a अलग प्रणाली of संकेतन .
Thus , the right deciduous mandibular first  molar is ज्ञात as `` 84 '' , और the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` 74 '' .
In the  सार्वभौमिक प्रणाली of संकेतन , the स्थाई mandibular पहला molars  are designated by a number .
The right permanent mandibular first molar is  ज्ञात as `` 30 '' , और the बाएँ एक is ज्ञात as `` 19 '' .
the पामर संकेतन उपयोग a क्रमांक in संयोजन साथ a प्रतीक  designating in which quadrant the tooth is found .
For this tooth , the left and right first molars would have the same  क्रमांक , `` 6 '' , लकिन the सही एक होता have the प्रतीक , `` ┐ '' , over  it , while the left one would have , `` ┌ '' .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संकेतन रै a अलग क्रमांकन प्रणाली than the पिछला दो , और the सही स्थाई mandibular पहला  molar is known as `` 46 '' , and the left one is known as `` 36 '' .
mandibular प्राथमिक पहला  molars usually have four pulp horns .
The first molar is usually  the पहला स्थाई दाँत to erupt  and has adult undertones .
Anatomy : The  mandibular पहला molar रै पाँच पुलिन : the mesiobuccal ( mb , toward midline और गाल ) , mesiolingual ( ml , toward midline और जीभ ) , distolingual ( dl , दूर इससे midline और towards  tongue ) , distobuccal ( DB , away from midline and toward cheek ) , and distal ( D , away from midline ) , listed in order of decreasing size .
Listed in order of decreasing height they are  : ml , dl , df , mf , और D. an आठवीं cusp थी मिला in a प्राथमिक दूसरी  lower molar in an Argentinean child .
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ) , the mandibular first molar is  pentagonal ( पाँच तरफा ) in आकार और tapers toward the lingual , साथ the पहलू होने the buccal सतह , the mesial सतह , the lingual सतह , distal सतह  , and the distobuccal surface .
the occlusal सतह रै  four grooves .
The central  नाली is नहीं सीधा लकिन रनों bas the बीच of the दाँत mesially to distally और contains चार गड्ढों  ( mesial , central , central , and distal ) .
The distobuccal groove runs from  the distal गड्ढे in the सेंट्रल नाली distobuccally separating  the distal and distobuccal cusps .
The lingual  नाली रनों इससे the अधिक distal of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the सेंट्रल नाली toward the  lingual surface between the mesiolingual and distolingual cusps .
The  buccal नाली रनों इससे the अधिक mesial of the सेंट्रल गड्ढों in the सेंट्रल नाली toward the buccal सतह  between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps ending in the buccal pit .
The portion of the central groove between the central pits is termed the  लुईस ऑफसेट और is अनिवार्य to खाता लिये the स्थितियाँ of the buccal और lingual डोले ( buccal नाली होने अधिक mesial than the lingual नाली  while they are parallel ) .
From the  buccal ( buccal दृश्य ) , दो जड़ें  are present .
The distal root is generally  straighter , हालांकि दोनो प्रायः have a पतला  distal curvature .
The heights of contour on the mesial  और distal सम्पर्क the सटा दांत और हैं स्तिथ at the जंक्शन of the  occlusal and middle thirds of the crown .
The Florida Legislature is the two  घरों कि अधिनियम as the राज्य विधानमंडल of the u.S. राज्य of फ्लोरिडा  .
the फ्लोरिडा संविधान राज्य कि `` the विधान शक्ति of the राज्य  shall be vested in a legislature of the State of Florida , '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives .
The  विधानमंडल is seated at the फ्लोरिडा  State Capitol in Tallahassee .
Stained  कांच चित्रण of डेनियल interceding साथ arioch  , the king 's guard .
Arioch had been  चार्ज साथ हत्या सब the हिकमत मेन बाद वे यहूद नहीं समर्थ  to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream .
Daniel 2 is the  दूसरी अध्याय of the किताब of डेनियल in the यहूदी  Bible .
The chapter 's  सोर्स टेक्स्ट is predominantly लिखा  in Aramaic .
According to the text  , nebuchadnezzar is the किंग of बाबुल जो is troubled by उसके  dreams .
He demands an  निर्वचन लिये उसके सपनो or होगा have उसके रहस्यवादी  interpreters executed .
Daniel seeks Divine Wisdom to  interpret the किंग 's सपनो और गुणगान परमेश्वर साथ a  short psalm .
God  देता डेनियल a दृष्टि in  the night to reveal the king 's dream .
Able to satisfy the king  , डेनियल is प्रचारित over the पूरे प्रांत  of Babylon .
One  comcast बीच , the मुख्यालय of comcast  in Philadelphia , PA .
The old  comcast लोगो इससे 1969 to 1999 , जब it थी replaced साथ the  crescent logo .
The Comcast Corporation  is an अमरीकी प्रदाता of entertainment , सूचना और संचार  products and services .
It is the largest cable operator , one of  the biggest द्रव्यमान मीडिया , घर अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाता , और तीसरा largest घर टेलीफोन सेवा प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य , providing केबल टेलीविज़न , ब्रॉडबैंड अंतरजाल , टेलीफोन सेवा और in कुछ क्षेत्रों घर सुरक्षा ( सहित burglar सचेतक , निगरानी कैमरे  , fire alarm systems and home automation ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia .
The company is headquartered in  फिलाडेल्फिया , पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
In 2011 , Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate NBCUniversal from GE in January 2011 , and began the process  of खरीदना the बाकी 49 % on फ़रवरी 12 , 2013 , at a लागत of $ 16.7 अरब  .
It  समाप्त the खरीदें on कूच 19 ,  2013 .
Comcast also  रै significant पकड़कर in अनेक केबल संजाल  ( including E !
entertainment टेलीविज़न , स्टाइल संजाल , g4 , the गोल्फ़ चैनल और एनबीसी खेल संजाल ) , वितरण  ( ThePlatform ) , and related businesses .
Comcast has been the subject of criticism for  क्रियाएँ सहित इसके stance on जाल neutrality , as खूब as ग़रीब परिणाम on ग्राहक संतोष  surveys .
Porcupines are rodents with a coat  of शार्प कांटे , or quills , कि बचाव और camouflage  them from predators .
They  हैं स्वदेशी to the americas , दक्षिणी एशिया  , and Africa .
Porcupines are the  तीसरा largest of the rodents , पीछे the capybara और  the beaver .
सबसे porcupines हैं परिचय long  , with an long tail .
weighing , वे हैं rounded ,  large and slow .
porcupines आइये in विभिन्न  shades of brown , gray , and the unusual white .
porcupines ' spiny सुरक्षा resembles कि of  the unrelated erinaceomorph hedgehogs and monotreme echidnas .
The common  साही is a herbivore  .
It eats leaves , herbs , twigs and  ग्रीन पौधे जैसे skunk गोभी और क्लोवर और in the शीत it may खा  bark .
The North American  साही प्रायः climbs पेड़ to  find food .
The  अफ़्रीकी साही is नहीं a climber और  forages on the ground .
It is mostly nocturnal ,  लकिन होगा sometimes forage  for food in the day .
Porcupines have become a  pest in कीनिया और हैं खाया as  a delicacy .
The name porcupine  आता इससे मध्य फ्रेंच porc espin  ( spined pig ) .
A regional American  नाम लिये the एनिमल is quill  pig .
First page of US  पेटेंट 129,843 लिये सुधार in lubricators लिये steam-engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2 ,  1844 – अक्तूबर 10 , 1929 ) थी a ब्लैक canadian-american आविष्कारक और इंजीनियर , जो थी notable लिये उसके  57 U.S. patents , most to do with lubrication of steam engines .
Born free in Canada , he returned as a five-year-old  चाइल्ड साथ उसके परिवार to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1847 , जहाँ he जिया लिये the बाकी of उसके जीवन और became  a US citizen .
Honda FCX Clarity , a  हाइड्रोजन ईंधन कोशिका demonstration गाडी introduced  in 2008
A  हाइड्रोजन गाडी is a गाडी कि  uses hydrogen as its onboard fuel for motive power .
Hydrogen vehicles include hydrogen fueled space rockets ,  as खूब as ऑटोमोबाइल और अन्य परिवहन वाहनों  .
The power plants of such vehicles convert the chemical energy of hydrogen to mechanical energy  either by burning हाइड्रोजन in an आतंरिक दहन इंजन , or by reacting हाइड्रोजन साथ ऑक्सीजन in a ईंधन  cell to run electric motors .
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling  परिवहन is a कुंजी तत्व of a प्रस्तावित हाइड्रोजन अर्थव्यवस्था  .
Hydrogen fuel does not occur naturally on Earth and thus  is नहीं an उर्जा सोर्स ; बल्कि it is an उर्जा वाहक  .
It is most frequently made from methane or other fossil fuels , but it can be  उत्पादित using स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as हवा , सौर , or नाभिकीय ) कि हैं intermittent , too व्याप्त or too cumbersome to सीधे  propel vehicles .
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants , using electrolysis of water ,  हैं exploring technologies to उद्धार लागत कम पर्याप्त , और quantities ग्रेट  enough , to compete with traditional energy sources .
Many companies  हैं working to develop technologies कि might efficiently exploit the संभावित  of hydrogen energy for mobile uses .
The  आकर्षण of using हाइड्रोजन as an उर्जा करेंसी is कि , if हाइड्रोजन is prepared बगैर using चट्टान ईंधन inputs , गाडी  propulsion would not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions .
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost , low energy content per unit volume , high tankage weights , very high storage vessel pressures , the storage , transportation and filling of gaseous or liquid hydrogen in vehicles , the  विशाल निवेश in अवसंरचना कि होता be जरूरी to ईंधन वाहनों , और the inefficiency of उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं .
Sacramento is the capital city of the  u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the सीट of सरकारी of sacramento  County .
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in  the उत्तरी portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive सेंट्रल  Valley .
With an estimated 2011  जनसांख्यिकी of 477,891 , it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the 35th largest नगर in  the United States .
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of  the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल सात काउंटी साथ  an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area , San Francisco Bay Area ,  और the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल , as खूब as the 25th  largest in the United States .
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine  as अमेरिका 's सबसे ethnically और racially एकीकृत नगर  in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss  अप्रवासी जॉन sutter , sr. , उसके बेटे जॉन sutter , jr. , और  James W. Marshall .
Sacramento  grew जल्दी धन्यवाद to the सुरक्षा of sutter 's फोर्ट , जिससे  was established by Sutter in 1839 .
During the California Gold  फटाफट , sacramento थी a प्रमुख वितरण पाइंट , a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच , और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल , stagecoaches , riverboats , the टेलीग्राफ , the टट्टू एक्स्प्रेस  , and the First Transcontinental Railroad .
California State University ,  sacramento , अधिक commonly ज्ञात as sacramento राज्य or सैक राज्य , is the largest लोकल  university .
It is one of the twenty-three  campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली  .
Drexel  विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ in शहर  , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific  's mcgeorge स्कूल of विधि is स्तिथ in  the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the  विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , डेविस is स्तिथ in आसपास  Davis , west of the capital .
The UC Davis Medical  बीच , a world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल , is  located in the city of Sacramento .
The Apple Store  is a कड़ी of खुदरा स्टोर्स स्वामित्व और संचालित by ठहराना inc. , dealing  in computers and consumer electronics .
The stores sell Macintosh personal  कंप्यूटर , तन्त्र , ipods , ipads , आईफ़ोन , third-party accessories  , and other consumer electronics such as Apple TV .
Some high profile stores  विशेषता a थिएटर लिये प्रस्तुतियों और वर्कशॉप और a स्टुडियो लिये प्रशिक्षण साथ ठहराना उत्पाद ; सब स्टोर्स प्रस्ताव a प्रतिभाशाली बार लिये तकनीकी  support and repairs , as well as free workshops available to the public .
Under the leadership  of रॉन जॉनसन , the पूर्व वरिष्ठ वाइस अध्यक्ष of खुदरा परिचालन , the ठहराना स्टोर्स have , according to an  article in the New York Times , been responsible for `` [ turning ] the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets '' .
,  ठहराना रै 405 स्टोर्स विश्वव्यापी , साथ वैश्विक बिक्री of अरब in merchandise in 2011 , और वे सीसे the संयुक्त राज्य  retail market in terms of sales per unit area .
Steven  पॉल `` स्टीव '' कार्य ( ; फ़रवरी 24 , 1955 – अक्तूबर 5 , 2011 ) थी an अमरीकी  entrepreneur and inventor , best known as the co-founder , chairman , and CEO of Apple Inc .
Through Apple , he was widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the personal computer  क्रान्ति और लिये उसके influential करियर in the कंप्यूटर और उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स फ़ील्ड , transforming ``  one industry after another , from computers and smartphones to music and movies ... ''
Jobs also  co-founded और परोसा as मुख्य कार्यपालिका of पिक्चर्स एनिमेशन studios ; he became a सदस्य of the फलक  of directors of The Walt Disney Company in 2006 , when Disney acquired Pixar .
Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of Xerox PARC 's mouse -driven  आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस , जिससे led to the सृष्टि of the ठहराना लिसा और , एक साल बाद  , the Macintosh .
He also played a role in introducing  the laserwriter , एक of the पहला widely उपलब्धियाँ लेज़र मुद्रक  , to the market .
After a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985 , Jobs  बाएँ ठहराना और संस्थापित अगला , a कंप्यूटर मंच विकास  company specializing in the higher-education and business markets .
In  1986 , he acquired the कंप्यूटर ग्राफिक्स प्रभाग of लुकासफ़िल्म  , which was spun off as Pixar .
he थी credited in खिलौना स्टोरी ( 1995  ) as an executive producer .
He served  as सीईओ और बहुमत shareholder जबतक डिज़्नी 's खरीदें of  Pixar in 2006 .
In 1996 ,  बाद ठहराना था विफल to उद्धार इसके ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली , copland , gil amelio turned to अगला  Computer , and the NeXTSTEP platform became the foundation for the Mac OS X .
Jobs returned to Apple  as an सलाहकार , और took कंट्रोल of the कम्पनी  as an interim CEO .
Jobs brought Apple from  निकट दिवालियापन to profitability by 1998  .
As the new CEO of the company , Jobs oversaw the development of the iMac , iTunes ,  ipod , iphone , और ipad , और on the सेवाएं पक्ष , the कम्पनी 's ठहराना खुदरा स्टोर्स , itunes स्टोर और  the App Store .
the कामयाबी of ये उत्पाद और सेवाएं provided अनेक सालो of stable वित्तीय रिटर्न  , and propelled Apple to become the world 's most valuable publicly traded company in 2011 .
the reinvigoration of the कम्पनी is regarded by अनेक  commentators as one of the greatest turnarounds in business history .
In 2003  , कार्य थी diagnosed साथ a अग्न्याशय  neuroendocrine tumor .
Though it was initially treated , he reported a hormone imbalance , underwent  a जिगर प्रत्यारोपण in 2009 , और appeared progressively thinner as उसके स्वास्थ्य अस्वीकृत  .
On medical leave for most of 2011 , Jobs  resigned in अगस्त कि साल , और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष  of the Board .
he died of respiratory गिरफ़्तार सम्बन्धित  to his metastatic tumor on October 5 , 2011 .
Jobs  प्राप्त a क्रमांक of honors और पब्लिक मान्यता  for his influence in the technology and music industries .
He has been referred to as `` legendary '' , a `` futurist ''  or बस `` दूरदर्शी '' , और रै महरूम वर्णित as the `` पिता of the डिजिटल क्रान्ति  '' , a `` master of innovation '' , and a `` design perfectionist '' .
प्रवेश to खण्ड ( 52 ) of the  Colosseum , with numerals still visible
Roman numerals , the numeric system in ancient  रोम , उपयोग combinations of अक्षर इससे the लैटिन वर्णमाला  to signify values .
The  संख्याएँ 1 to 10 can be expressed in रोमन  numerals as follows:
और .
The Roman numeral  प्रणाली is a cousin of etruscan numerals  .
Use of Roman numerals  जारी बाद the मनाही of  the Roman Empire .
From the 14th century on , Roman numerals began to be replaced  in सबसे contexts by अधिक सुविधाजनक hindu-arabic numerals ; however इस प्रक्रम थी क्रमिक , और the उपयोग of रोमन numerals in कुछ नाबालिग अनुप्रयोग  continues to this day .
प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज आरेख
The  प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज ( प्रायः symbolize as or Z* ) is the जाल धनात्मक चार्ज  experienced by an electron in a multi-electron atom .
The term `` effective '' is  प्रयुक्त क्युकी the shielding प्रभाव of negatively चार्ज electrons रोकता उच्चतर कक्षीय electrons इससे experiencing  the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons .
The effective nuclear  चार्ज अनुभवी by the बाहरी शेल इलेक्ट्रॉन  is also called the core charge .
it is संभावित to determine the शक्ति of the नाभिकीय चार्ज  by looking at the oxidation number of the atom .
This  is a सूची of एपीसोड इससे the डिस्कवरी  Channel series , Storm Chasers .
A rural stretch of I-5 , with two  गलियों in प्रत्येक दिशा अलग by a विशाल grassy मध्य , और साथ cross-traffic  limited to overpasses and underpasses
The Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of  अंतरराज्यीय और रक्षा राजमार्गों ( commonly ज्ञात as the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली , अंतरराज्यीय फ्रीवे प्रणाली , अंतरराज्यीय प्रणाली , or बस the अंतरराज्यीय ) is a संजाल of freeways कि फ़ॉर्म a भाग of the नेशनल राजमार्ग प्रणाली  of the United States .
The system is named for  अध्यक्ष ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर , जो championed  its formation .
Construction was  प्राधिकृत by the संघीय सहायता राजमार्ग अधिनियम of 1956 , और the असली  portion was completed 35 years later .
The network has since been extended , and , it had a total length of , making it the world 's  दूसरी longest बाद चीन 's . , परिचय one-quarter of सब गाडी मील चलित in the देश उपयोग the अंतरराज्यीय  system .
The cost of construction has been estimated at $ 425 billion ( in 2006 dollars ) ,  बनाना it the `` largest पब्लिक works कार्यक्रम चूंकि the पिरामिडों  `` .
The system has  contributed in shaping the संयुक्त राज्य into a संसार आर्थिक महाशक्ति  and a highly industrialized nation .
.eu is the country code  top-level डोमेन ( cctld ) लिये  the European Union ( EU ) .
Launched on 7 December 2005 , the  डोमेन is उपलब्धियाँ लिये संगठनों in और निवासियों of eu सदस्य  states .
The TLD is administered by EURid , a consortium  originally consisting of the नेशनल cctld रजिस्ट्री ऑपरेटर of बेल्जियम , स्वीडन , और इटली , joined बाद by the नेशनल  registry operator of the Czech Republic .
ट्रेडमार्क स्वामी यहूद समर्थ to submit पंजीकरण through a सूर्योदय काल ,  in an effort to prevent cybersquatting .
Full  पंजीकरण प्रारंभ on 7 अप्रैल  2006 .
Meister means master  in जर्मनी ( as in निपुण craftsman , or as an honorific शीर्षक ऐसे  as Meister Eckhart ) .
The word is  akin to maestro  .
In sports  , meister is प्रयुक्त लिये the वर्तमान नेशनल , यूरोपीय or संसार  champion ( Deutscher Meister , *Europameister , Weltmeister ) .
Many modern day  जर्मनी पुलिस शक्तियां उपयोग the शीर्षक  Meister .
दौरान the दूसरी संसार युद्ध , meister थी the उच्चतम आयोजिक  rank of the Ordnungspolizei .
Meister has been  उधार into अंग्रेज़ी कठबोली , जहाँ it is प्रयुक्त  in compound nouns .
A person  referred to as “meister” is एक जो रै extensive सैद्धांतिक ज्ञान और व्यावहारिक  skills in his profession , business , or some other kind of work or activity .
लिये उदाहरण , a “puzzle-meister” होता be किसी  highly skilled at solving puzzles .
These neologisms sometimes have a  व्यंग्यात्मक intent ( लिये उदाहरण , “stubble-meister” लिये किसी साथ a छोटी , neat दाढ़ी or “crier-meister” लिये किसी जो  often cries ) .
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's television series about  teenagers साथ super-powers , आधारित on the 16th किश्त of the जापानी सुपर sentai मताधिकार , kyōryū sentai zyuranger .
Both the show and  इसके सम्बन्धित merchandise देखी unbridled overnight कामयाबी , बनने a स्टेपल  of 1990s pop culture in mere months .
Under  the असली नाम , `` mighty morphin शक्ति रेंजरों '' the श्रेणी भागा इससे 1993 to 1995  and spawned the feature film Mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie .
The  दूसरी और तीसरा सीज़न of the दिखाएँ खींचा on फुटेज और तत्व इससे the सुपर sentai श्रेणी gosei sentai dairanger और निंजा sentai kakuranger क्रमशः  , though the Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains .
Only the mecha and the Kiba  रेंजर वेशभूषा ( worn by the श्वेत रेंजर ) यहूद retained इससे dairanger लिये the दूसरी ऋतु , जबकि तभी the mecha इससे kakuranger  were featured in the third season .
However the Kakuranger  वेशभूषा यहूद बाद प्रयुक्त लिये the शीर्षक वर्ण of the mini-series  , Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers .
The series was  उत्पादित by mmpr प्रोडक्शन्स , वितरित by saban entertainment  , and aired on Fox Kids .
The show 's merchandise  थी उत्पादित और वितरित  by Bandai Entertainment .
In 1996 , the series was rebranded as the Power  रेंजरों मताधिकार ; renaming the श्रेणी प्रत्येक साल बाद , और using वेशभूषा , प्रॉप्स  , and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series , as well as changing the cast and storyline .
While an overarching storyline would continue until Power Rangers Lost  आकाशगंगा , subsequent श्रेणी बाद mmpr हैं नहीं सिक्वेल or spin-offs in the परंपरागत भाव  .
In 2010 , a re-version of Mighty  morphin शक्ति रेंजरों , साथ a नई लोगो , कॉमिक book-referenced ग्राफिक्स , और अतिरिक्त वैकल्पिक खास प्रभाव , थी  broadcast on ABC Kids , and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series .
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19 , 1809 –  अक्तूबर 7 , 1849 ) थी an अमरीकी लेखक , कवि , एडिटर और साहित्यिक आलोचक , माना  part of the American Romantic Movement .
Best known for his tales of mystery  और the घोर , पो थी एक of the earliest अमरीकी practitioners of the छोटी स्टोरी और is generally  considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre .
He is further credited with  contributing to the उभरते विधा of विज्ञान fiction  .
He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a living  through लिखने अलोन , resulting in a financially मुश्किल जीवन  and career .
He was born as Edgar Poe in Boston , Massachusetts ; he was orphaned young  जब उसके माँ died shortly बाद उसके पिता abandoned the परिवार .
Poe was taken in by John and Frances Allan , of Richmond , Virginia ,  लकिन वे never formally अपनाया  him .
He attended the University of  वर्जिनिया लिये एक सेमेस्टर लकिन बाएँ due to कमी of धन  .
After enlisting in the Army and  बाद failing as an अधिकारी 's cadet at वेस्ट पाइंट , पो parted तरीके साथ the allans  .
His publishing career began humbly , with an anonymous collection  of कविताएं , tamerlane और अन्य कविताएं ( 1827 ) , credited तभी to `` a bostonian  '' .
Poe switched his focus to prose and  खर्च the अगला अनेक सालो working लिये साहित्यिक जर्नल्स  and periodicals , becoming known for his own style of literary criticism .
His work forced him  to मूव among अनेक शहरों , सहित बाल्टीमोर ,  Philadelphia , and New York City .
in बाल्टीमोर in 1835 , he शादीशुदा वर्जिनिया  Clemm , his 13-year-old cousin .
In January 1845  पो प्रकाशित उसके कविता , `` the रेवेन `` , to  instant success .
His wife died of  तपेदिक दो सालो बाद इसके प्रकाशन  .
He began planning  to उपज उसके अपना जर्नल , the penn ( बाद renamed the स्टाइलस ) , हालांकि he died पहले it  could be produced .
On October 7 , 1849 , at age 40 , Poe died in Baltimore ; the  कारण of उसके मौत is अनजान और रै महरूम variously attributed to दारू , दिमाग जमघट , हैजा , दवाएँ , दिल बीमारी , rabies , आत्महत्या , तपेदिक ,  and other agents .
Poe and his works influenced  साहित्य in the संयुक्त राज्य और around the संसार , as खूब as in specialized  fields , such as cosmology and cryptography .
Poe and his  कार्य appear throughout लोकप्रिय संस्कृति in साहित्य , म्यूज़िक , films  , and television .
A number  of उसके घरों हैं समर्पित संग्रहालय  today .
The Mystery  लेखक of अमेरिका उपस्थित an सालाना पुरस्कार ज्ञात as the एडगर पुरस्कार  for distinguished work in the mystery genre .
Lions are  obligate carnivores ; वे आवश्यकता up to सात गामा ( 15 पाउंड ) of मांस  per day .
A major component of their diet  is the flesh of विशाल स्तनधारियों , जैसे इस अफ़्रीकी भैंस  .
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat  भक्षक ' ( लैटिन , caro अर्थ 'meat ' or 'flesh ' और vorare अर्थ 'to devour ' ) is an सजीव कि गर्भाशयी इसके उर्जा और nutrient आवश्यकताएँ इससे a आहार consisting  mainly or exclusively of animal tissue , whether through predation or scavenging .
Animals that depend solely  on एनिमल flesh लिये उनके nutrient आवश्यकताएँ हैं माना carnivores जबकि those  that also consume non-animal food are considered carnivores .
Omnivores  भी consume दोनो एनिमल और non-animal खाना , और अलावा इससे the अधिक सामान्य परिभाषा , वहीँ is no clearly पारिभाषित अनुपात of  plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore .
A  carnivore कि sits at the शीर्ष of the foodchain  is an apex predator .
Plants that capture and digest  कीट हैं पुकारा मांसाहारी पौधे  .
Similarly , fungi  कि कैप्चर microscopic पशु हैं प्रायः पुकारा मांसाहारी  fungi .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the  वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ) , the खेल 's वैश्विक शासी देह  .
The championship has been awarded every four years since the  inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930 , मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं आयोजित  because of the Second World War .
the वर्तमान champions हैं  Spain , who won the 2010 tournament .
The current format  of the टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at  venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase ,  जिससे फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो , is प्रयुक्त  to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by  आठ अलग नेशनल टीमों  .
Brazil have  जीती पाँच टाइम्स , और वे हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई  in every tournament .
The other World Cup  विजेता हैं इटली , साथ चार शीर्षक ; जर्मनी , साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural  winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1  लाख लोगों देखी the फाइनल मैच of the 2006 फीफा संसार कप  held in Germany .
The next  तीन संसार cups होगा be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014 , रूस  in 2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
Heroes is an  अमरीकी विज्ञान fiction टेलीविज़न नाटक श्रेणी निर्मित by टिम क्रिंग कि appeared on एनबीसी लिये  four seasons from September 25 , 2006 through February 8 , 2010 .
The series tells  the कहानियां of ordinary लोगों जो discover superhuman abilities , और कैसा ये abilities लो  effect in the characters ' lives .
The series emulates the aesthetic style and  storytelling of अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे , using multi-episode स्टोरी arcs कि निर्माण upon a larger  , more encompassing arc .
the श्रेणी थी उत्पादित by tailwind प्रोडक्शन्स in संघ  with Universal Media Studios .
It  थी फिल्माया primarily in लॉस  Angeles , California .
Four  पूरा सीज़न aired , समाप्ति on फ़रवरी  8 , 2010 .
The critically acclaimed first  ऋतु था a चलाएं of 23 एपीसोड और garnered an औसत of 14.3 लाख दर्शक in the संयुक्त  States , receiving the highest rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years .
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1  लाख दर्शक in the u.S. , और चिह्नित एनबीसी 's एकमात्र श्रेणी among the शीर्ष 20 क्रमित कार्यक्रम in कुल  viewership for the 2007–2008 season .
Heroes has earned a number of awards and nominations , including  प्राइमटाइम एमी पुरस्कार , सुनहरी ग्लोब्स , लोगों 's चुनाव  Awards and British Academy Television Awards .
An online extension of the  श्रेणी , नायक 360 अनुभव , बाद rebranded as नायक evolutions , थी निर्मित to explore the नायक ब्रह्मांड और provides  insight into the show 's mythology .
Other official Heroes media include magazines , action  आंकड़े , tie-in और इंटरैक्टिव वेबसाइटों , a मोबाईल खेल , a अनोखा  , clothing and other merchandise .
In  the पतन of 2008 , एनबीसी डिजिटल entertainment released a श्रेणी of ऑनलाइन सामग्री लिये  the summer , including more original web content , wireless iTV interactivity , graphic novels available for mobile viewing and webisodes .
NBC  घोषित नायक रद्दीकरण on  May 14 , 2010 .
Afterward , the network considered making a television special event to conclude the  श्रेणी ; however , on सितंबर 9 , 2010 , एनबीसी घोषित the निर्णय to रोकें कोई  further development of the Heroes franchise .
Tim Kring then suggested that the broad premise of Heroes storylines  अनुमत लिये the मताधिकार to वापसी लिये प्रशंसक , लकिन he किया नहीं बताएँ जब  or in what media format .
On April 17 , 2013 , TV  लकीर reported कि एमएसएन थी in बाते to revive  the series with a new cast .
John Pierpont  `` J. p .  ''
Morgan ( April 17 , 1837 – March 31 , 1913 )  थी an अमरीकी फाइनेंसर , बैंकर , लोकसेवक और आर्ट कलेक्टर जो वर्चस्व कॉरपोरेट वित्त और औद्योगिक  consolidation during his time .
In 1892 Morgan arranged the merger  of एडिसन सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक और thomson-houston इलेक्ट्रिक कम्पनी to रूप  General Electric .
After financing the creation of the Federal Steel Company , he merged in 1901 with the Carnegie Steel Company and several other steel and iron businesses , including Consolidated Steel and Wire  कम्पनी स्वामित्व by विलियम edenborn , to रूप the संयुक्त राज्य स्टील निगम .
Morgan died in Rome , Italy , in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75 , leaving his fortune and business to his son ,  जॉन pierpont `` जोकर '' मॉर्गन , jr. , और bequeathing उसके mansion और विशाल किताब संग्रहण to the मॉर्गन पुस्तकालयों & संग्रहालय in  New York .
At the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s , he and his partners had financial investments in  अनेक विशाल corporations और यहूद अभियुक्त by आलोचकों of controlling the स्वदेश 's ऊँची  finance .
He  निर्देशित the बैंकिंग गठबन्धन कि रोका  the Panic of 1907 .
He was the leading financier of  the प्रगतिशील era , और उसके समर्पण to दक्षता और modernization helped रूपांतरण  American business .
This is a list  of एपीसोड of the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  .
The episodes were  निर्देशित by शिगेरू ueda और उत्पादित by the yggdrasil कार्यपालिका कमेटी  which included Xebec and Genco .
The plot of  the एपीसोड is नियत in टोकियो और घूमती around रिन asōgi , an अमर निजी अन्वेषक , as वो explores the रहस्य of आधुनिक और near-future संसार और the अलौकिक कार्यक्रम कि  surround the fictional society of immortals like herself .
There are large time gaps  in the आतंरिक कालक्रम between the पहला पाँच एपीसोड  , ranging from one to thirty years .
The six episodes were  ब्रॉडकास्ट मासिक on at-x चैनल in जापानी  , between February 3 and July 6 , 2008 .
प्रत्येक एपीसोड is 45 मिनट्स  long .
Two pieces of  थीम म्यूज़िक हैं प्रयुक्त लिये the एपीसोड : the खोलने थीम `` alsatia  '' and the ending theme `` Cause Disarray '' .
Both were  रचित और performed by the जापानी मेटल  band Galneryus .
The series was produced to commemorate the tenth  वर्षगांठ of the at-x संजाल it originally  aired on .
Aerial photo of FLETC , where  us डिजिटल forensics मानकों यहूद विकसित in the 1980s  and '90s
Digital forensics (  sometimes ज्ञात as डिजिटल forensic विज्ञान ) is a शाखा of forensic विज्ञान encompassing  the recovery and investigation of material found in digital devices , often in relation to computer crime .
The term digital forensics was originally used as a synonym  लिये कंप्यूटर forensics लकिन रै विस्तारित to कवर छानबीन of सब डिवाइस सक्षम of storing डिजिटल आंकड़ा  .
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the late 1970s and early  '80s , the अनुशासन विकसित in a haphazard manner दौरान the 1990s , और it थी नहीं जबतक the जल्दी 21st सदी कि  national policies emerged .
डिजिटल forensics investigations have  a variety of applications .
The most common is to support or refute a hypothesis before criminal  or सिविल ( as भाग of the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्कवरी प्रक्रम ) न्यायालयों  .
Forensics may also  विशेषता in the निजी सेक्टर ; ऐसे as दौरान आतंरिक कॉरपोरेट investigations or  intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into the nature and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ) .
The technical aspect of an  छानबीन is विभाजित into अनेक sub-branches , relating to the प्रकार of डिजिटल डिवाइस शामिल ; कंप्यूटर forensics , संजाल forensics  , forensic data analysis and mobile device forensics .
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure , forensic imaging (  अधिग्रहण ) और विश्लेषण of डिजिटल मीडिया और the उत्पादन of a रपट into एकत्रित  evidence .
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime ,  डिजिटल forensics can be प्रयुक्त to विशेषता प्रमाण to विशिष्ट संदिग्धों , confirm alibis or कथन , determine intent , पहचानो स्त्रोत  ( for example , in copyright cases ) , or authenticate documents .
Investigations are much broader in scope than other areas of  forensic विश्लेषण ( जहाँ the usual उद्देश्य is to provide जवाब to a श्रेणी of simpler सवाल ) प्रायः involving जटिल time-lines or hypotheses  .
a तुलना of the chromaticities enclosed  by some color spaces .
A color model is an abstract mathematical  मॉडल describing the रास्ता रंगों can be represented as tuples of संख्याएँ , typically as तीन or चार मान or रंग components ( e.g . आरजीबी और cmyk हैं रंग  models ) .
However , a color model with  no संबद्ध मानचित्रण फलन to an निरपेक्ष रंग स्पेस is a अधिक or कम  arbitrary color system with no connection to any globally understood system of color interpretation .
Adding  a निश्चित मानचित्रण फलन between the रंग मॉडल और a निश्चित सन्दर्भ रंग स्पेस परिणाम in a definite  `` footprint '' within the reference color space .
This `` footprint '' is known as a gamut ,  और , in संयोजन साथ the रंग मॉडल , defines  a new color space .
For example , Adobe  आरजीबी और srgb हैं दो अलग निरपेक्ष रंग स्पेसेस , दोनो  based on the RGB model .
In the  सबसे जेनेरिक भाव of the परिभाषा ऊपर , रंग स्पेसेस can be  defined without the use of a color model .
These spaces , such as Pantone , are in effect a given set of  names or संख्याएँ जिससे हैं पारिभाषित by the अस्तित्व of a सम्बन्धित नियत  of physical color swatches .
This  आलेख focuses on the गणितीय  model concept .
Labor Day is an  अमरीकी संघीय अवकाश observed on the पहला सोमवार in सितंबर , कि मनाता the आर्थिक और  social contributions of workers .
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) and an  insurer , जहाँ the insurer वादे to अदा a designated लाभार्थी a योग of धन ( the `` लाभ '' ) upon the मौत of the  insured person .
Depending on the contract , other events  ऐसे as टर्मिनल बीमारी or नाजुक  illness may also trigger payment .
the नीति होल्डर typically pays a प्रीमियम  , either regularly or as a lump sum .
Other expenses ( such  as अंत्येष्टि खर्च ) हैं भी sometimes  included in the benefits .
Life policies are legal  अनुबंध और the शर्तें of the अनुबंध describe the सीमाएं of the insured  events .
Specific  exclusions हैं प्रायः लिखा into the अनुबंध to सीमा the देयता of the insurer ; आम उदाहरण  are claims relating to suicide , fraud , war , riot and civil commotion .
Life-based  अनुबंध tend to पतन into दो  major categories:
सुरक्षा नीतियों – designed to provide a लाभ in the इवेंट of निर्दिष्ट  event , typically a lump sum payment .
A common form of  इस डिज़ाइन is पद बीमे  .
Investment policies – where the main  उद्देश्य is to सुकर the विकास of पूंजी by नियमित or सिंगल प्रीमियम  .
आम फ़ॉर्म ( in the us ) हैं पूरे जीवन , सार्वभौमिक  life and variable life policies .
{ {  infobox अवकाश
चाइनीज  New Year
9 – 12 फ़रवरी  ( Vietnam )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2 , 1962 in Yorba Linda ,  नारंगी काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , भी credited और अधिक popularly ज्ञात as  Mitzi Kapture .
Kapture began her  करियर in films , सबसे of जिससे यहूद नहीं  huge commercial successes .
She went on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver , 1st & Ten , and  as a प्रतियोगी on the $ 100,000 पिरामिड ) पहले वो gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय एक्सपोज़र साथ उसके पहला प्रमुख टेलीविज़न भूमिका as सार्जेंट रीता ली तलवार in the टेलीविज़न  series Silk Stalkings .
Kapture 's role as Rita , the  अन्य हाफ of the दो `` sams '' लिये लगभग 5 सालो , cemented  her popularity .
Paired with Rob  estes जो निभाई सार्जेंट क्रिस lorenzo , kapture gained वैश्विक मान्यता साथ साथ उसके costar चूंकि the दिखाएँ  was broadcast in several countries .
Sergeant  तलवार आखिरकार became लेफ्टिनेंट तलवार by the समय  Kapture left the series in 1995 to have her first child Madison .
During  उसके समय साथ the श्रेणी , kapture briefly सत in the निदेशक  's chair , for two episodes .
She was interviewed for the Silk  stalkings ऋतु 1 dvd जिससे थी वितरित by लंगर खाड़ी entertainment और released in सितंबर  2004 .
After a short  अंतराल इससे the स्क्रीन following उसके निकास इससे रेशा stalkings , kapture  returned in 1997 to the small screen and USA Network .
She played lead roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies ,  पूर्ण अपराधों ( आधारित on a सच्चा स्टोरी , भी पुकारा छुपा और तलाश : the जोआन जेन्सेन स्टोरी ) , जिससे भी स्ट्रक्चर चमेली  Guy and His Bodyguard .
She later starred in a few other independent film  प्रोजेक्ट और थिएटर प्रोडक्शन्स और था अनेक टेलीविज़न अतिथि दिखावे  .
kapture भी था a पुनरावर्ती भूमिका on बेवाच  as Alexis Ryker .
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the Restless from  2002 through 2004 , जहाँ वो थी credited as mitzi kapture donahue , और स्ट्रक्चर in the made-for-tv फिल्म रात्रि of आतंक जिससे premiered  March 26 , 2006 on Lifetime Network .
Her latest is a supporting  भूमिका in परमेश्वर 's कानों , released in  2007 .
Kapture is the official  हस्ती प्रवक्ता लिये the xeroderma pigmentosum समाज  .
The Xbox 360 is the second video game console developed by  और उत्पादित लिये microsoft और the successor to  the Xbox .
The Xbox  360 competes साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 3 और निन्टेंडो 's वी as भाग of the सातवाँ पीढी  of video game consoles .
As  of सितंबर 30 , 2012 , 70 लाख एक्सबॉक्स 360  consoles have been sold worldwide .
The Xbox 360 was officially unveiled on  एमटीवी on may 12 , 2005 , साथ विस्तृत लॉन्च और खेल सूचना divulged बाद कि माह at the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक entertainment  Expo ( E3 ) .
The console sold out completely  upon रिलीज in सब regions मगर in जापानी .
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service that allows players to compete  ऑनलाइन ; डाउनलोड आर्केड खेल , खेल demos , trailers , tv shows , म्यूज़िक और फिल्मों ; और इसके खिड़कियाँ  Media Center multimedia capabilities .
the एक्सबॉक्स सजीव भी offers अभिगम to विभिन्न ( प्रायः region-specific ) third-party  media streaming applications .
At their E3  प्रस्तुतीकरण on जून 14 , 2010 , microsoft घोषित a redesigned एक्सबॉक्स 360 कि होता  ship on the same day .
The redesigned console is slimmer than the previous  एक्सबॉक्स 360 मॉडल और सुविधाएँ एकीकृत 802.11 b/g/n wi-fi , toslink s/pdif ऑप्टिकल ऑडियो आउटपुट , पाँच usb 2.0 पोर्ट ( compared  to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port .
Older models  of the एक्सबॉक्स 360 have चूंकि महरूम discontinued  .
The first  नई कंसोल to be released सुविधाएँ a 250 gb मुश्किल ड्राइव , जबकि a बाद , कम महंगी sku सुविधाएँ  4 GB internal storage .
Backpack  may भी refer to a 2001  novel by Emily Barr
A  आधुनिक backpack
स्विस फौज backpack  ca . 1960
एकीकृत तुमको फ़्रेम  .
A  backpack ( भी पुकारा रूकसाक , knapsack , packsack , पैक ) is , in इसके सरलतम रूप , a cloth बोरी carried on एक 's वापस और secured साथ  two straps that go over the shoulders , but there can be exceptions .
Lightweight types of  backpacks हैं sometimes worn on तभी  one shoulder strap .
Backpacks are often  पसन्दीदा to हैंडबैग लिये carrying भारी loads or carrying कोई sort of उपकरण , क्युकी of the सीमित क्षमता  to carry heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands .
Large backpacks , used to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 lbs ) , usually offload  the largest भाग ( up to परिचय 90 % ) of उनके वज़न onto padded हिप बेल्ट , leaving the कंधे straps मुख्यतः लिये stabilising  the load .
इस improves the संभावित to carry भारी loads , as the कूल्हों हैं stronger than the कन्धों , और  also increases agility and balance , since the load rides nearer the wearer 's own center of mass .
In ancient times , the backpack was used as a means to carry the  शिकारी 's larger खेल और अन्य प्रकार of शिकार और as a रास्ता of easier  transport for other materials .
In the cases of larger hunts , the hunters would  dismember उनके शिकार और वितरित the टुकड़े of the एनिमल around , प्रत्येक एक पैकिंग the मांस into अनेक wrappings और तब into  bags which they placed on to their backs .
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide and skin ( depending on what sorts  of पशु यहूद in the क्षेत्रफल ) और sewn साथ by the आंतों of कहा पशु , जिससे यहूद  woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material .
मैक्सिको ( ; ; ) , officially the संयुक्त मैक्सिकन राज्य ( ) , is a संघीय  constitutional republic in North America .
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the south and  वेस्ट by the प्रशांत समंदर ; on the southeast by ग्वाटेमाला , बेलीज़ , और the caribbean समुद्र ; और on the ईस्ट by the  Gulf of Mexico .
Covering  लगभग दो लाख वर्गाकार किलोमीटर ( over 760,000 sq mi ) , मैक्सिको is the  fifth largest country in the Americas by total area and the 13th largest independent nation in the world .
With an  अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of over 113 लाख , it is the संसार 's eleventh सबसे populous  country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country .
मैक्सिको is a संघ comprising thirty-one राज्य  and a Federal District , the capital city .
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into advanced civilizations such as the  olmec , the toltec , the teotihuacan , the zapotec ,  the Maya and the Aztec before first contact with Europeans .
In 1521 , Spain conquered and colonized the territory  इससे इसके आधार in méxico-tenochtitlan , जिससे थी administered as the  Viceroyalty of New Spain .
This territory would eventually become  मैक्सिको following मान्यता of the उपनिवेश 's स्वतंत्रता  in 1821 .
The post-independence period was characterized by economic instability , the  mexican-american युद्ध और territorial cession to the संयुक्त राज्य , a सिविल युद्ध , दो empires और a घरेलू तानाशाही  .
The latter led to the Mexican Revolution in 1910 , which culminated  साथ the promulgation of the 1917 संविधान और the emergence of the देश 's वर्तमान राजनैतिक  system .
Elections held in July 2000 marked the first time that an opposition party won  the प्रेसिडेंसी इससे the संस्थागत क्रांतिकारी पार्टी  .
Since 2006 the country has been in the  midst of a ड्रग युद्ध जिससे रै caused  60,000 deaths .
मैक्सिको रै एक of the संसार 's largest economies , और is  considered both a regional power and middle power .
In addition , Mexico was the first Latin American member  of the संगठन लिये आर्थिक co-operation और विकास oecd ( चूंकि 1994 ) , और माना an upper-middle आय  country by the World Bank .
Mexico is considered a  newly industrialized देश और  an emerging power .
It  रै the fourteenth largest नाममात्र जीडीपी और the eleventh largest  GDP by purchasing power parity .
The economy is  strongly linked to those of इसके उत्तर अमरीकी फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध ( nafta ) साझेदार  , especially the United States of America .
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the Americas by number of UNESCO World Heritage  साइट साथ 31 , और in 2007 थी the दसवाँ सबसे visited देश in the संसार साथ 21.4 लाख अंतरराष्ट्रीय  arrivals per year .
Babe Ruth  holds the एमएलबी करियर slugging प्रतिशत रिकार्ड  ( .690 ) .
In baseball statistics , slugging percentage ( abbreviated  slg ) is a लोकप्रिय माप of the शक्ति of a hitter  .
It is  गणना as कुल bases विभाजित  by at bats :
where AB is the number of at-bats for a given player , and 1B , 2B ,  3b , और hr हैं the क्रमांक of singles , युगल , तिगुना , और  home runs , respectively .
Walks are  specifically excluded इससे इस गणना  .
For example , in 1920  , बेब रुथ निभाई उसके पहला ऋतु लिये the नई  York Yankees .
In 458  at bats , रुथ था 172 हिट्स , comprising 73 singles , 36 युगल , 9 तिगुना , और 54 घर रनों , जिससे  brings the total base count to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388 .
His total number of bases ( 388  ) विभाजित by उसके कुल at-bats ( 458 ) is .847 , उसके slugging प्रतिशत  for the season .
The next year he slugged .846 , and these records went  अखंड जबतक 2001 , जब बैरी bonds हासिल 411 bases in 476 at-bats , bringing उसके slugging प्रतिशत to .863 , बेमेल चूंकि  .
is a  role-playing वीडियो खेल विकसित और प्रकाशित by वर्गाकार ( अभी वर्गाकार एनिक्स ) लिये the  Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995 .
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square  उतावले the `` सपना टोली '' : hironobu sakaguchi , the निर्माता of वर्गाकार 's फाइनल काल्पनिक श्रेणी ; yuji horii , a freelance पंक्तियां और निर्माता of एनिक्स 's लोकप्रिय  Dragon Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama , a freelance manga artist famed for his work with Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball .
kazuhiko aoki उत्पादित the खेल , masato काटो लिखा सबसे of the प्लाट , जबकि composer yasunori mitsuda  scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu .
The game 's story follows a  समूह of adventurers जो सफर through समय to prevent a वैश्विक प्रलय  .
Square re-released a ported version by Tose in Japan for Sony 's  प्लेस्टेशन in 1999 , बाद repackaged साथ a फाइनल काल्पनिक iv बंदरगाहों as फाइनल काल्पनिक क्रॉनिकल्स in 2001 लिये  the North American market .
A slightly  उन्नत chrono ट्रिगर थी released लिये the निन्टेंडो ds on नवम्बर 25 , 2008 , in उत्तर अमेरिका और जापानी  , and went on sale in Australia on February 3 , 2009 and in Europe on February 6 , 2009 .
The game  थी never released in pal territories पहले the निन्टेंडो  DS version .
Chrono  ट्रिगर थी a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी upon रिलीज और is माना  today to be one of the greatest video games of all time .
Nintendo Power magazine described aspects of Chrono Trigger as revolutionary ,  सहित इसके अनेक endings , plot-related sidequests focusing on अक्षर विकास , अद्वितीय बैटल प्रणाली , और विस्तृत  graphics .
Chrono  ट्रिगर थी the तीसरा best-selling खेल of 1995 , और the खेल 's snes और प्लेस्टेशन  iterations have shipped 2.65 million copies as of March 2003 .
The  संस्करण लिये the निन्टेंडो ds बेची  790,000 copies as of March 2009 .
Chrono Trigger was also ported to mobile phones , Virtual  कंसोल , the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल ( तभी in the यूएसए ) , आईओएस  devices , and Android devices .
बकरी चीज
Goat cheese , or chèvre ( from the  फ्रेंच शब्द लिये बकरी ) , is चीज बना आउट of the मिल्क  of goats .
Hyperthermia is elevated body temperature due to  विफल thermoregulation कि occurs जब a देह produces or absorbs अधिक ऊष्मा than it dissipates  .
Extreme temperature  उन्नयन तब becomes a चिकित्सा आपात requiring तात्कालिक उपचार  to prevent disability or death .
The  सबसे आम कल्याणकारी शामिल ऊष्मा स्ट्रोक और प्रतिकूल प्रतिक्रियाएँ  to drugs .
The former is an acute  तापमान उन्नयन caused by एक्सपोज़र to excessive ऊष्मा , or संयोजन of ऊष्मा और आर्द्रता , कि overwhelms the  heat-regulating mechanisms .
The latter  is a अपेक्षाकृत विरल पक्ष प्रभाव of अनेक दवाएँ ,  particularly those that affect the central nervous system .
Malignant  अतिताप is a विरल complication of कुछ प्रकार of  general anesthesia .
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be  प्रयुक्त in the उपचार of कुछ kinds of कर्कट और अन्य शर्तें , सबसे commonly in संयोजन साथ radiotherapy  .
Hyperthermia differs from fever in that the body 's  तापमान नियत पाइंट remains अपरिवर्तित  .
The opposite is hypothermia , which  occurs जब the तापमान बूंदें नीचे कि जरूरी to  maintain normal metabolism .
बेलीज़ , is a देश स्तिथ on the northeastern  coast of Central America .
It is the only country in the area where English  is the आधिकारिक भाषा , हालांकि kriol और स्पेनी हैं अधिक commonly बोला  .
Belize is bordered on the  उत्तर by मैक्सिको , to the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by ग्वाटेमाला और to the  east by the Caribbean Sea .
Its  मेनलैंड is परिचय long  and wide .
With of land and a  जनसांख्यिकी of तभी 312,698 निवासियों ( 2010 जनसांख्यिकी ) , बेलीज़ possesses the  lowest population density in Central America .
The country 's population growth  रेट of 3.15 % ( 2012 est . ) is the दूसरी उच्चतम in the प्रदेश और एक of the उच्चतम in the  western hemisphere .
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and marine species , and its diversity of ecosystems  दे it a कुंजी प्लेस भीतर the globally significant mesoamerican biological corridor  .
Belize has a diverse  समाज , comprising अनेक संस्कृतियों  and languages .
It is the only nation in the region with a British colonial heritage , but as a part of the  पश्चिमी caribbean मण्डल , it भी साझा a आम विरासत साथ the fellow anglophone  Caribbean countries .
in सामान्य , बेलीज़ is माना to be a सेंट्रल अमरीकी और caribbean  nation with strong ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America .
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) , the Community of  लैटिन अमरीकी और caribbean राज्य ( celac ) , और सेंट्रल अमरीकी संयोजन प्रणाली ( सिका )  .
Belize is known  लिये इसके सितंबर जश्न , और is the जन्मस्थान of चबाने गम  and Punta Rock .
the `` बेट्सी रॉस  '' flag
A `` Betsy Ross '' flag  उड़ती बाहर सैन फ्रांसिस्को  City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an  जल्दी डिज़ाइन of the ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य , popularly attributed to बेट्सी रॉस , using the आम motifs of प्रत्यावर्ती red-and-white  striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton .
The  ध्वज थी designed दौरान the अमरीकी क्रान्ति और सुविधाएँ  13 stars to represent the original 13 colonies .
The  distinctive विशेषता of the रॉस ध्वज is the व्यवस्था  of the stars in a circle .
Although the Betsy Ross  स्टोरी is स्वीकृत by सबसे अमेरिकी , कुछ ध्वज इतिहासकारों और revisionists do नहीं accept the बेट्सी रॉस डिज़ाइन  as the first American flag .
According to the traditional account , the original flag was made in June 1776 , when a small  committee—including जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , रॉबर्ट मॉरिस और सापेक्ष जार्ज रॉस —visited बेट्सी और discussed the  need for a new American flag .
Betsy accepted the job to manufacture the flag , altering  the कमेटी 's डिज़ाइन by replacing the six-pointed सितारों साथ  five-pointed stars .
While the  बेट्सी रॉस लेजेंड is questionable , the ध्वज डिज़ाइन is ज्ञात to have महरूम in उपयोग by 1777 ; अल्फ्रेड b . गली वर्णित it at the आत्मसमर्पण  of General Burgoyne and understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states .
It is one of the  oldest संस्करण of u.S. ध्वज ज्ञात to मौजूद ; जबकि it is नहीं the oldest surviving ध्वज centuries in cloth रूप , इसके likeness  appears on older physical relics , namely , the contemporary battlefield paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale .
They depict the circular star arrangement being flown from ship  masts और अनेक अन्य स्थान , और यूँ provide the पहला ज्ञात ऐतिहासिक  documentation of the flag 's appearance .
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs  उपयोग the बेट्सी रॉस ध्वज to represent सेवा to सब दिग्गजों इससे the अमरीकी क्रान्ति  to the present day .
The Betsy Ross  डिज़ाइन of 13-star us ध्वज रै महरूम प्रदर्शित in अनेक लोकप्रिय artworks ( sometimes inaccurately , as in वॉशिंगटन क्रासिंग the डेलावेयर  ) and films , such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna .
The flag continues  to be एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय प्रतीकों  of the American Revolution .
A  purr is a ध्वनि बना by सब प्रजाति of felids और is a भाग  of cat communication .
It varies between cats ( for example by loudness and tone ) ,  और इससे प्रजाति to प्रजाति , लकिन can be characterized as a tonal  buzzing .
The term ``  purring '' रै महरूम प्रयुक्त liberally in साहित्य , और it  has been claimed that viverrids ( civet , mongoose , genet ) , bears , badgers , hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr .
Other animals that  have महरूम कहा to purr हैं खरगोश , squirrels , गिनी सूअर , tapirs , ring-tailed lemurs , हाथियों  , raccoons and gorillas while eating .
However , using a strict definition of  purring कि निरन्तर ध्वनि उत्पादन जरूर वैकल्पिक between pulmonic egressive और ingressive airstream ( और प्रायः go on लिये मिनट्स ) , पीटर्स ( 2002 ) , in an विस्तृत पुनर्विलोकन of the वैज्ञानिक साहित्य , पहुँचे  the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets , Genetta tigrina , and most likely also Genetta genetta , had been documented to purr .
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus  anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी ऑस्ट्रेलिया , सहित  Tasmania .
साथ साथ the चार प्रजाति of एकिडना , it is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes , the  only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth .
It is the sole living representative of  इसके परिवार ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus ) , हालांकि a क्रमांक of सम्बन्धित  species have been found in the fossil record .
The unusual  रूप of इस egg-laying , बतख -billed , बीवर -tailed , otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists जब  they first encountered it , with some considering it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of the few venomous mammals , the  पुरूष platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर कि delivers a venom सक्षम of  causing severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of  विकासवादी जीवविज्ञान और a recognisable और iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared as a शुभंकर  at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
the platypus is the एनिमल emblem of the  state of New South Wales .
Until the early 20th century  , it थी hunted लिये इसके फर , लकिन it is अभी सुरक्षित throughout इसके दायरा  .
Although captive breeding  programmes have था तभी सीमित कामयाबी और the platypus is vulnerable to the प्रभाव  of pollution , it is not under any immediate threat .
St. Elizabeth is a  गाँव in मिलर काउंटी , मिसौरी  , United States .
The population  थी 336 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Wilton is a  census-designated प्लेस ( cdp ) in sacramento काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त  States .
It is part of the  sacramento – arden-arcade – roseville महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,363 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी , up इससे  4,551 at the 2000 census .
In human-computer interaction , cut and paste and copy and  paste हैं सम्बन्धित कमांड कि प्रस्ताव a user-interface बातचीत तकनीक  for transferring text , data , files or objects from a source to a destination .
Most ubiquitously ,  उपयोक्ता आवश्यकता the क्षमता to काटें और paste भाग  of plain text .
The cut command removes the selected data from its original position , while  the नक़ल कमांड creates a नकल ; in दोनो मामले the चयनित आंकड़ा is लगाई in a clipboard  .
The data in  the clipboard is बाद inserted in the स्थिति  where the paste command is issued .
The command names are an interface metaphor based on  the शारीरिक कार्यविधि प्रयुक्त in पाण्डुलिपि संपादन to बनाएँ a  page layout .
This interaction technique has close associations with related  तकनीकों in आलेखीय उपयोक्ता अंतरफलक कि उपयोग इंगित डिवाइस ऐसे as a कंप्यूटर चूहा ( by खीचें  and drop , for example ) .
Economic  अनुक्रम मात्रा is the अनुक्रम मात्रा कि minimizes कुल inventory  holding costs and ordering costs .
It is one of  the oldest शास्त्रीय उत्पादन scheduling  models .
The framework used to  determine इस अनुक्रम मात्रा is भी ज्ञात  as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula .
The model  थी विकसित by घाट W. हैरिस in 1913 , लकिन R. H. विल्सन , a सलाहकार जो लागू it extensively  , is given credit for his in-depth analysis .
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray  vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3 , 1954 – अगस्त 27 , 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist , singer-songwriter  , and record producer .
Often referred to by his initials  srv , vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding सदस्य और नेता of दोगुना ट्रबल  .
Together with drummer Chris Layton and  bassist टॉमी शैनन , वे ignited the ब्लूज़ पुनरुद्धार of the 1980s  .
With a career spanning  सात सालो , vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल consistently बेची आउट कॉन्सर्ट जबकि उनके एल्बम  frequently went gold .
He was born and raised in Dallas  , टेक्सास , और लिये a छोटी काल of समय जिया in ग्राहम  , Texas .
As the younger brother of  jimmie vaughan , vaughan प्रारंभ playing the गिटार at आयु सात और formed अनेक bands कि occasionally  performed in local nightclubs .
At age 17 , he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further  pursue उसके musical करियर , joining समूह ऐसे as krackerjack , the nightcrawlers , और the cobras  .
In 1977 , he  formed ट्रिपल threat revue , a बैंड कि आखिरकार विकसित into दोगुना ट्रबल और regularly  performed around Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble  performed at the montreux जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड  , catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to  खेल on उसके आगामी स्टुडियो एल्बम let 's नृत्य , जबकि browne offered the बैंड फ़्री उपयोग of उसके निजी  studio in Los Angeles to record an album .
In March 1983 , Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic  रिकॉर्ड by दिग्गज रिकार्ड निर्माता जॉन हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू एल्बम ,  Texas Flood in June of that year .
After successful touring , the  समूह released the एल्बम , could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा ( 1985 ) , the  latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career  था progressed सफलतापूर्वक , vaughan checked into a पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया to दे up  a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band .
In June 1989 , In Step was released and earned  उन्हें a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन ब्लूज़  Performance .
On August 27  , 1990 , vaughan थी मारे in a हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following  a performance in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's  uniquely eclectic yet तीव्र स्टाइल थी निकला इससे a किस्में  of musical genres .
He was influenced by blues musicians  सहित अल्बर्ट किंग , फ्रेडी किंग , ओटिस फटाफट , और muddy waters , और चट्टान guitarists  such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
उसके गिटार playing reflected the क्लासिक  blues and pentatonic scales .
He has received wide  नाजुक मान्यता लिये उसके गिटार playing , रैंकिंग at # 6 on रोलिंग पत्थरों सूची  of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously inducted into  the ब्लूज़ हॉल of कीर्ति in 2000 और a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा थी erected  in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park .
Stevie Ray  vaughan is widely माना to be एक of the महानतम  musicians to come from the state of Texas .
The Las Vegas  स्ट्रिप संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय in  2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores ,  रेस्तरां , और वेंडिंग मशीने in प्रत्येक देश मगर क्यूबा और  North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and is often referred to  बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of the coca-cola कम्पनी in the संयुक्त राज्य चूंकि कूच  27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late  19th सदी by जॉन pemberton , coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler , जिनकी विपणन tactics led कोक  to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then  बेची to licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the  world .
The bottlers , who  थाम territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी , उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों  from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then  बेचें , वितरित और merchandise coca-cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स  and vending machines .
Such bottlers include  coca-cola उद्यमों , जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और पश्चिमी  Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company  भी बिकता concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख  restaurants and food service distributors .
The  coca-cola कम्पनी रै , on अवसर , introduced अन्य  cola drinks under the Coke brand name .
The  सबसे आम of ये is आहार कोक , साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola , आहार कोक caffeine-free  , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand  2011 , coca-cola थी the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान ब्रांड  .
Barry Louis Larkin (  born अप्रैल 28 , 1964 ) is a रिटायर्ड प्रमुख  League Baseball player .
Larkin played  shortstop लिये the सिनसिनाटी लाल इससे 1986 to 2004 और थी एक of the pivotal खिलाड़ी on the 1990 लाल  ' World Series championship team .
Larkin was  निर्वाचित to the नेशनल बेसबॉल हॉल of कीर्ति  in January 2012 and was inducted on July 22 .
Larkin is considered one of the  शीर्ष खिलाड़ी of उसके era , जीतना नौ चांदी  Slugger awards and three Gold Glove awards .
He was  चयनित to the प्रमुख लीग all-star खेल बारह टाइम्स , और थी  elected the 1995 National League Most Valuable Player .
brasília ( ) is the संघीय पूंजी of ब्राज़ील और  the seat of government of the Federal District .
Administratively , the city is located  in the संघीय ज़िला जिससे is in the central-west प्रदेश  .
Physically , it is located  in the ब्राज़ीलियाई हाइलैंड्स .
It has a population  of परिचय 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the महानगर क्षेत्रफल ) as of the 2008  IBGE estimate , making it the fourth largest city in Brazil .
However ,  as a महानगर क्षेत्रफल , it बाँधने निम्नतर at छठे  in population .
Brasília is the  largest नगर in the संसार कि किया नहीं मौजूद at the शुरूआत of  the 20th century .
Brasília has the fifth  largest जीडीपी among लैटिन अमरीकी शहरों और the तीसरा in ब्राज़ील  .
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais (  बराबर to लगभग $ 30,900 us डॉलर or €23,000 euros ) , the नगर 's प्रति capita आय  is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities .
as the नेशनल पूंजी , brasília is the सीट of सब तीन शाखाओं  of the federal government of Brazil .
The  नगर भी होस्ट the मुख्यालय  of many Brazilian companies .
Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas , as well as building the  नगर around विशाल avenues और dividing it into सेक्टर , have sparked a बहस और प्रतिबिंब on जीवन in बिग शहरों in the 20th सदी  .
The  नगर 's डिज़ाइन divides it into गिने ब्लॉक as खूब as सेक्टर लिये निर्दिष्ट  activities , such as the Hotel Sector , the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector .
Brasília hosts  124 विदेशी embassies  .
The city was planned and  विकसित in 1956 साथ lúcio कोस्टा as the प्रिंसिपल शहरी प्लानर , ऑस्कर  Niemeyer as the principal architect and Roberto Burle Marx as the landscape designer .
Brasilia is in  the युनेस्को 's संसार hertitage सूची due to इसके वास्तुकला  .
On April 22 ,  1960 , it formally became ब्राज़ील  's national capital .
Viewed from  ऊपर , the प्रमुख portion of the नगर resembles an वायुयान  or a butterfly .
The city is commonly  referred to as पूंजी संघीय , or  simply BSB .
Residents of Brasília  हैं ज्ञात as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to  those not born in the city but who migrated there after it was established ) .
In local usage , the word `` Brasília '' usually refers only to the First Administrative Region ( RA I ) within  the संघीय ज़िला ( distrito संघीय ) , जहाँ the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सरकारी इमारतें  are located .
Brasília has a unique status in Brazil , as it  is an प्रशासनिक प्रभाग बल्कि than a विधिक नगरपालिका जैसे nearly सब शहरों in ब्राज़ील  .
Nationally , the term is almost  सदा प्रयुक्त synonymously साथ the संघीय ज़िला , जिससे constitutes  an indivisible Federative Unit , analogous to a state .
अनेक `` उपग्रह शहरों '' मौजूद जिससे हैं  also part of the Federal District .
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília  , connecting the पूंजी to सब प्रमुख ब्राज़ीलियाई शहरों और अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्यों  .
It  is the तीसरा सबसे महत्वपूर्ण विमानक्षेत्र in ब्राज़ील , in शर्तें  of passengers and aircraft movements .
Personifications of Germany , France , Russia , Austria-Hungary , and the United  किंगडम attempting to रखना the ढक्कन on the simmering cauldron of imperialist और राष्ट्रवादी तनाव  in the Balkans to prevent a general European war .
They were  कामयाब in 1912 और 1913 लकिन किया नहीं सफल  in in 1914 .
The causes of World War I  , जिससे began in सेंट्रल यूरोपीय in लेट जुलाई 1914 और समाप्त in 1918 , शामिल अनेक कारकों , ऐसे as the विरोध  and hostility of the four decades leading up to the war .
Militarism , alliances ,  साम्राज्यवाद , और राष्ट्रवाद निभाई प्रमुख भूमिकाएँ in the विरोध as  well .
The immediate  origins of the युद्ध , however , lay in the निर्णय लिया by कूटनीतिज्ञों और सेनापतियों दौरान the संकट of 1914 , casus belli लिये जिससे थी the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड ( the  Archduke of Austria Hungary ) and his wife Sophie by Gavrilo Princip , an irredentist Serb .
The crisis came after a long and difficult  श्रेणी of राजनयिक clashes between the ग्रेट शक्तियां ( इटली , फ़्रांस , जर्मनी , the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य , the austria-hungarian साम्राज्य और रूस ) over यूरोपीय और औपनिवेशिक  issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high .
In  फेरे ये राजनयिक clashes can be traced  to changes in the balance of power in Europe since 1867 .
The more immediate  कारण लिये the युद्ध थी तनाव over territory in  the Balkans .
austria-hungary competed साथ सर्बिया और रूस लिये territory और influence in the प्रदेश और वे खींचा the बाकी of the ग्रेट  Powers into the conflict through their various alliances and treaties .
Although the chain of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the war , the war 's origins go deeper , involving national  राजनीती , संस्कृतियों , अर्थशास्त्र , और a जटिल वेब of alliances और counterbalances कि था विकसित between  the various European powers since 1870 .
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of nationalism across Europe , unresolved territorial disputes , an intricate system of alliances , the perceived breakdown of the balance of power in Europe ,  convoluted और fragmented शासन , the बाहें दौड़ of the पिछला दशकों , पिछला सैन्य नियोजन , इम्पीरियल और औपनिवेशिक फंसने लिये माल , शक्ति और प्रतिष्ठा , और आर्थिक और सैन्य फंसने in उद्योग और व्यापार – e.g. , the सुअर युद्ध between ऑस्ट्रिया  and Serbia .
Other causes that  आए into खेल दौरान the राजनयिक संकट कि preceded the युद्ध शामिल misperceptions of intent ( e.g. , the जर्मनी विश्वास कि the संयुक्त किंगडम होता remain  neutral ) and delays and misunderstandings in diplomatic communications .
The  विभिन्न श्रेणी of स्पष्टीकरण लिये  World War I correspond to different historians ' overall methods .
Most historians  और लोकप्रिय टीकाकारों शामिल कल्याणकारी इससे अधिक than एक श्रेणी of स्पष्टीकरण  to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war .
the deepest भेद among ये खाते is between कहानियां कि देखिए it as the अपरिहार्य और predictable  outcome of certain factors , and those that describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake .
In attributing causes for the war ,  इतिहासकारों और लड था to सौदे साथ an unprecedented बाढ़ of memoirs और  official documents , released as each country involved tried to avoid blame for starting the war .
Early releases of information by governments , particularly those  released लिये उपयोग by the `` आयोग on the जिम्मेदारी of the लेखक of the युद्ध '' यहूद दिखाया to be अधूरी और पक्षपातपूर्ण  .
In addition some documents , especially diplomatic  केबल between रूस और फ़्रांस , यहूद मिला to have महरूम doctored  .
Even  in बाद दशकों however , जब much अधिक सूचना था महरूम released , इतिहासकारों इससे the वही संस्कृति  have been shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war .
Johnson 's new chart of  नेशनल प्रतीक , प्रकाशित  c. 1868 .
The large flags shown in the corners are the  37-star ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य ( flown 1867-1877 ) , the royal मानक of the संयुक्त किंगडम ,  the Russian Imperial Standard , and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle .
Various other  ध्वज flown by जहाजों हैं दिखाया  .
The Flag  of क्यूबा is labelled `` क्यूबन ( so  called ) `` .
The  चाइनीज ड्रैगन on the ध्वज of चीन थी drawn mistakenly as  a western dragon .
A national flag is a  ध्वज कि symbolizes a देश .
The flag is  flown by the सरकारी , लकिन प्रायः can भी be flown by  citizens of the country .
Both public and private buildings such as schools and  courthouses may मक्खी the नेशनल  flag .
In  कुछ देशों , the नेशनल ध्वज हैं तभी flown इससे non-military इमारतें  on certain flag days .
There are three distinct types of national flag for use on land , and three  लिये उपयोग at समुद्र , हालांकि अनेक देशों उपयोग एकसमान डिजाइन लिये अनेक  ( and sometimes all ) of these types of flag .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865  between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy ''  or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of  गुलामी , विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories .
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy  collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव  began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans ,  led by अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य '  territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 ,  सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy  .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans  rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's  inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता  not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states  जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession .
Confederate forces  जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy  .
A Peace Conference failed to  ढूँढें a सुलह , और दोनो पहलू prepared  for war .
The Confederates assumed that  यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none  did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on  अप्रैल 12 , 1861 , जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों  in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ;  नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy , bringing  their total to eleven .
the संघ जल्द नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित  a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The  पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive in  1861–62 .
the पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate  retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी  a war goal .
To the west , by  गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी , तब much of उनके पश्चिमी  armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's  confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल  of Gettysburg .
Western successes  led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना  in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman  drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र , destroying  Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to  आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण  through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The  defending confederate फौज विफल , अग्रणी to ली 's  surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was  एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक  wars .
Railroads , the telegraph  , steamships , और mass-produced हथियार यहूद  employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories ,  खानों , shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed  World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in  अमरीकी इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined  number of civilian casualties .
इतिहासकार जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी  males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Norrie disease is a genetic  विकार कि primarily affects the नजर और लगभग सदा लीड  to blindness .
In addition to the congenital  ocular लक्षण , कुछ मरीजों suffer इससे a प्रगतिशील सुनना घाटा starting ज़्यादातर in उनके 2nd  decade of life , while another portion may be mentally challenged .
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts , leukocoria ( a condition where  the विद्यार्थियों appear श्वेत जब लाइट is shone on उन्हें ) , साथ साथ अन्य developmental मुद्दे in the नजर , ऐसे as shrinking of the  globe and the wasting away of the iris .
Around 30–50 % of  उन्हें होगा भी have developmental डेलाy/ दिमागी retardation , psychotic-like सुविधाएँ , incoordination of आंदोलनों or  behavioral abnormalities .
Most  मरीजों हैं born साथ सामान्य सुनना ; however , the  onset of hearing loss is very common in early adolescence .
About 15 % of  the मरीजों हैं अनुमानित to develop सब the सुविधाएँ of the बीमारी  .
The  बीमारी affects लगभग तभी पुरूष infants at जनम or जल्द बाद जनम , क्युकी the बीमारी is inherited x-linked  recessive .
Only in  बहुत विरल मामले , महिलाओं have महरूम diagnosed  with Norrie disease as well .
The exact  incidence क्रमांक is अनजान ; तभी a few सौ मामले have महरूम reported  so far .
It is  a बहुत विरल विकार कि is नहीं संबद्ध साथ कोई  specific ethnic or racial groups .
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object  डाला into voluntarily by दो or अधिक पार्टियों , प्रत्येक of जिसको intends to बनाएँ एक or अधिक विधिक दायित्वों between  them .
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons ''  having विधिक क्षमता जो एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of दायित्व .  ''
Proof of some or all of these  तत्व may be किया in लिखने , हालांकि अनुबंध may be बना entirely  orally or by conduct .
The  उपाय लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप  of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction .
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain ''  or अपेक्षा क्षतिपूर्ति , जिससे हैं वृहद than mere रिलायंस क्षतिपूर्ति  , as in promissory estoppel .
The parties  may be प्राकृतिक व्यक्तियों or juristic व्यक्तियों  .
A contract is a  legally enforceable वादा or undertaking कि कुछ होगा  or will not occur .
The word  वादा can be प्रयुक्त as a विधिक पर्याय लिये अनुबंध , हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a वादा may नहीं  have the full standing of a contract , as when it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly  इससे एक क्षेत्राधिकार to another , सहित मतभेद in आम विधि compared to सिविल विधि , the प्रभाव of प्राप्त  law , particularly from England in common law countries , and of law codified in regional legislation .
regarding ऑस्ट्रेलियाई अनुबंध विधि लिये उदाहरण , वहीँ हैं 40 प्रासंगिक अधिनियमों जिससे प्रभाव on the निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल  ( Federal / national ) level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
in जोड वहीँ हैं 6 अंतरराष्ट्रीय यंत्र or प्रथाओं जिससे हैं लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय  dealings , such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
ASP.NET is a  server-side वेब अनुप्रयोग फ्रेमवर्क designed लिये वेब विकास to उपज डायनेमिक वेब  pages .
It  थी विकसित by microsoft to allow प्रोग्रामर्स to निर्माण डायनेमिक वेब साइट , वेब अनुप्रयोग  and web services .
It was first  released in जनवरी 2002 साथ संस्करण 1.0 of the .neT फ्रेमवर्क , और is the successor to microsoft 's क्रियाशील सर्वर  Pages ( ASP ) technology .
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language  runtime ( clr ) , allowing प्रोग्रामर्स to लिखें asp.net कोड using कोई समर्थित .neT भाषा  .
the asp.net साबुन एक्सटेंशन फ्रेमवर्क allows asp.net components  to process SOAP messages .
Lysergic acid diethylamide ,  abbreviated एलएसडी or lsd-25 , भी ज्ञात as lysergide ( इन ) और colloquially as एसिड , is a semisynthetic साइकेडेलिक ड्रग of the ergoline परिवार , खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव जिससे can शामिल altered सोच  processes , closed and open eye visuals , synesthesia , an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences , as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture .
It is used mainly as an  entheogen , recreational ड्रग , और as  an agent in psychedelic therapy .
LSD is non-addictive , is not known  to कारण दिमाग क्षति , और रै अत्यधिक कम toxicity सापेक्ष  to dose .
However , adverse psychiatric reactions such  as चिंता , paranoia , और delusions  are possible .
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 from  ergotamine , a रासायनिक निकला by आर्थर stoll इससे ergot , a अनाज कवक कि typically  grows on rye .
The short form  `` एलएसडी '' आता इससे इसके जल्दी कोड नाम lsd-25 , जिससे is an संक्षिप्त लिये  the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number .
LSD is sensitive to oxygen , ultraviolet light , and chlorine  , विशेषकर in समाधान , हालांकि इसके potency may पिछला लिये सालो if it is भंडारित दूर इससे लाइट और नमी at कम तापमान  .
In  pure रूप it is a colorless , गंधहीन  , tasteless solid .
LSD is typically delivered orally ,  प्रायः on a substrate ऐसे as absorbent blotter पेपर , a शुगर घन  , or gelatin .
In its liquid form , it can also  be administered by intramuscular or intravenous इंजेक्शन  .
LSD is very potent  , साथ 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) होने the  threshold dose .
New experiments with LSD started in  2009 लिये the पहला समय in 40 सालो  .
Introduced by Sandoz Laboratories , with trade-name Delysid , as a  ड्रग साथ विभिन्न मनोरोग उपयोग in 1947 , एलएसडी जल्दी became a therapeutic एजेंट कि appeared to दिखाएँ ग्रेट वादा  .
In the 1950s , officials at the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency ( CIA ) thought the drug might be applicable to mind control  और रासायनिक warfare ; the एजेंसी 's mkultra शोध कार्यक्रम propagated the ड्रग among यंग servicemen और विद्यार्थी  .
The subsequent recreational use of the drug  by युवावस्था संस्कृति in the पश्चिमी संसार दौरान the 1960s led to a राजनैतिक firestorm कि resulted in इसके निषेध  .
Currently , a number of  organizations—including the beckley न्यास , मानचित्र , heffter शोध संस्थान और the अल्बर्ट hofmann foundation—exist  to fund , encourage and coordinate research into the medicinal and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics .
The United States Navy 's Sea , Air , Land  टीमों , commonly ज्ञात as the नेवी seals , हैं the u.S. नेवी 's प्रिंसिपल खास परिचालन फ़ोर्स और a  part of the Naval Special Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command .
`` SEAL '' is always capitalized in  सन्दर्भ to सदस्यों of the नवल खास warfare  community .
The acronym  is निकला इससे उनके क्षमता to operate at समुद्र , in the  air , and on land .
SEALs are male  सदस्यों of the संयुक्त  States Navy .
An exchange program with the Coast Guard , which  ग्रैजुएट तीन coast guardsmen as seals , थी  suspended in 2011 .
The CIA 's  अत्यधिक गुपचुप खास क्रियाएँ प्रभाग ( उदास ) और अधिक specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन समूह  ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams .
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA operations go  वापस to the famed macv-sog दौरान the वियतनाम  War .
This cooperation still  exists आज और is देखी in the युद्धों in इराकी और अफगानिस्तान , और in the ढूंढना और हत्या of ओसामा बिन लादेन  in Pakistan .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN  2010 projections ( रेड , नारंगी , ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates (  black ) .
Actual  अंकित जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं  in blue .
According to the highest estimate , the world population may rise to 16 billion by  2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान , it may मनाही to 6 अरब  .
The world  जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल क्रमांक of जीना  humans on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated  to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ( uscb  ) .
The USCB estimates that the world population  exceeded 7 अरब on कूच 12 , 2012  .
According to a  पृथक अनुमान by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि , it पहुँचे  this milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The world  जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the ब्लैक मौत in 1350  , when it stood at around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above  1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s , और लिये a longer काल दौरान the 1960s  and 1970s .
The growth rate  peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 % by  2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at  परिचय 138 लाख , और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख , जबकि मौतों क्रमांक  56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
वर्तमान projections दिखाएँ a जारी बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट  ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various  longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास , stagnation , or भी overall  decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the  स्थिरता of further संसार जनसांख्यिकी विकास , citing the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण , वैश्विक खाना आपूर्तियाँ , और उर्जा  resources .
Memphis  is a नगर in the southwestern कोने of the u.S. राज्य of  Tennessee , and the county seat of Shelby County .
The city is located on the  4th chickasaw bluff , दक्षिण of the संगम of the भेड़िया और  Mississippi rivers .
Memphis had a population of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest city in the  राज्य of टेनेसी , the largest नगर on the मिसिसिपी नदी , the तीसरा largest in the southeastern संयुक्त राज्य , और the 20th largest in the  United States .
The greater Memphis  महानगर क्षेत्रफल , सहित सटा काउंटी in मिसिसिपी और अरकंसास , था  a 2010 population of 1,316,100 .
This  makes मेम्फिस the दूसरी largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in टेनेसी , surpassed तभी  by metropolitan Nashville , which has overtaken Memphis in recent years .
Memphis  is the youngest of टेनेसी  's major cities .
A resident of  मेम्फिस is referred to as a memphian , और the मेम्फिस प्रदेश is ज्ञात , विशेषकर to मीडिया  outlets , as `` Memphis & The Mid-South `` .
The  cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र  in France .
France  produces around तीन quarters of  its electricity by nuclear power .
The  grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in  Germany .
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition  घोषित on may 30 , 2011 , कि germany’s 17 नाभिकीय शक्ति स्टेशन होगा be shut bas by 2022 , in a नीति reversal following  Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster .
फिलहाल , 68 रिएक्टरों हैं अंतर्गत निर्माण  in 15 countries .
Nuclear power  स्टेशन operate in तीस देशों  .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster , it was reported that an average of about 10  नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों यहूद अपेक्षित to become operational प्रति साल , हालांकि according to the संसार नाभिकीय संघ , of the 17 civilian रिएक्टरों नियोजित to  become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As of June 2011 , Germany and  स्विट्ज़रलैंड हैं phasing-out नाभिकीय  power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark  , यूनानियों , आयरलैंड , इटली , लातवियाई , liechtenstein , ध्वज , मलेशिया , माल्टा , नई जीलैंड , नार्वे और पुर्तगाल remain opposed  to nuclear power .
Skeletal  मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
This is a table of  मांसपेशियां of the इंसान anatomy  .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles  भीतर the ठेठ इंसान , और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां , मिला on दोनो पहलू , resulting in लगभग  320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles  differently , e.g . regarding कया is पारिभाषित as अलग भाग of a सिंगल मांसपेशी or as अनेक  muscles .
उदाहरण दायरा इससे  640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human body can be  categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन , मांसपेशियां of the  torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action  refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी  from the standard anatomical position .
In other  स्थितियाँ , अन्य क्रियाएँ  may be performed .
A reenactment of a battle at Fort  फोस्टर , 1837 ( at hillsborough  River State Park )
The Seminole Wars , also known as the Florida  युद्धों , यहूद तीन विरोध in फ्लोरिडा between the seminole — the सामूहिक नाम दिए to the amalgamation of विभिन्न समूह of देशी  Americans and Black people who settled in Florida in the early 18th century — and the United States Army .
The  पहला seminole युद्ध थी इससे 1814 to 1819 ( हालांकि स्त्रोत differ ) , the दूसरी seminole युद्ध इससे 1835 to 1842 , और  the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858 .
The  पहला विरोध साथ the seminoles arose आउट of तनाव relating to सामान्य एंड्रयू जैक्सन 's आक्रमण और विनाश  of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816 .
Jackson  भी attacked the स्पेनी at pensacola  .
ultimately , the स्पेनी क्राउन ceded the उपनिवेश  to United States rule .
Orono is a town in Penobscot  काउंटी , maine , संयुक्त राज्य .
It was first settled in 1774  और नामित in सम्मान of मुख्य जोसेफ orono of the penobscot  Nation .
it is घर to the विश्वविद्यालयों of  Maine .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 10,362 at the  2010 census .
View of  the पिरामिड
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel  और कसीनो on the लास वेगास स्ट्रिप in स्वर्ग  , Nevada .
The  30-story होटल , स्वामित्व और संचालित by mgm रिसॉर्ट अंतरराष्ट्रीय , रै a  casino with over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games .
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation , it has a new , highly modernized  , और समकालीन डिज़ाइन और contains a कुल of 4,400 कक्ष , सहित 442 suites , अस्तर the आंतरिक दीवारें of a पिरामिड स्टाइल  tower and within twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were built as later additions .
The hotel is  नामित बाद the नगर of लक्सर ( प्राचीन  Thebes ) in Egypt .
Luxor is the second largest hotel in Las Vegas (  the largest होने the mgm ग्रैंड ) और the आठवीं largest in the संसार .
As of 2010 , the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from  the ग्रीन कुंजी eco-rating कार्यक्रम , जिससे evaluates `` चिरस्थायी ''  hotel operations .
A pilot experiment , also called a pilot study , is a  छोटी स्केल प्रारंभिक पढ़ाई conducted in अनुक्रम to evaluate feasibility , समय , लागत , प्रतिकूल कार्यक्रम , और प्रभाव आकार ( सांख्यिकीय variability ) in  an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project .
Pilot studies , therefore  , may नहीं be उचित लिये मामला  studies .
The Los Angeles Fire  विभाग ( lafd ) is the एजेंसी कि provides आग सुरक्षा और आपात चिकित्सा  services for the city of Los Angeles .
it may be unofficially referred to as the लॉस एंजिल्स नगर आग विभाग to फर्क  it from the Los Angeles County Fire Department .
The acre is a unit of area used in  the इम्पीरियल और u.S. प्रथागत प्रणालियों  .
An  एकड़ is परिचय 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – थोड़ा छोटी  than an American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a few notable exceptions include the United States , Australia , Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of  2010 , the एकड़ is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त किंगडम , हालांकि is स्टिल प्रयुक्त in रियल  estate descriptions ) .
It is still used ,  to कुछ extent , in  Canada .
The international symbol of  the एकड़ is ac , और is पारिभाषित as 1/640 of  a square mile .
The most  commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ आज is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  acre .
In the United States  दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the  slightly different US survey acre are in use .
The most common use  of the एकड़ is to माप tracts of  land .
One  अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार  metres .
During the Middle Ages , an acre  थी the राशि of जमीन कि could be plowed  in one day with a yoke of oxen .
Pawnee  initially refers to a देशी  American people and its language:
pawnee  people
pawnee भाषा
Pawnee is also  the नाम of अनेक स्थान  in the United States:
pawnee , इलिनोइस
pawnee , कान्सास
pawnee नगर  , Nebraska
pawnee , ओक्लाहोमा
pawnee , टेक्सास
Pawnee  नेशनल घासभूमि , कोलोराडो
Pawnee Township (  बहुविकल्पी )
pawnee काउंटी ( बहुविकल्पी  )
pawnee may भी refer  to:
Piper PA-25  pawnee , agricultural वायुयान
hiller vz-1 pawnee , प्रायोगिक  aircraft
Pawnee ,  इंडियाना ( fictional नगर ) the fictional सेटिंग of the  NBC television comedy Parks and Recreation .
broca 's और wernicke  's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human  beings उपयोग शब्द to communicate विचार और जज्बात , और कैसा ऐसे संचार हैं processed और  understood .
Thus it is  कैसा the दिमाग creates और understands भाषा  .
Most recent theories consider that  इस प्रक्रम is carried आउट entirely by और अंदर the दिमाग  .
This is considered one of the most  characteristic abilities of the इंसान प्रजाति - शायद the सबसे characteristic  .
However very little is known about it  और वहीँ is विशाल पैमाना लिये शोध  on it .
सबसे of the ज्ञान acquired to तिथि on the विषय रै आइये इससे मरीजों जो have suffered कुछ प्रकार of significant सिर चोट , whether बाह्य  ( wounds , bullets ) or internal ( strokes , tumors , degenerative diseases ) .
Studies have shown  कि सबसे of the भाषा प्रसंस्करण कृत्यों हैं carried  out in the cerebral cortex .
The essential  फलन of the cortical भाषा क्षेत्रों is सांकेतिक प्रतिनिधित्व  .
Even though  भाषा exists in अलग फ़ॉर्म , सब of उन्हें हैं  based on symbolic representation .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car , designed  और विकसित by the volkswagen समूह और manufactured in molsheim , फ़्रांस by bugatti ऑटोमोबाइल  S.A.S .
The Super  खेल संस्करण of the veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal उत्पादन  car in the world , with a top speed of .
The  असली संस्करण रै a शीर्ष  speed of .
It was named Car of the  दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम  Top Gear .
the मानक veyron जीती शीर्ष गियर्स बेहतरीन car चलित  All Year award in 2005 .
On 6 April  2013 , bugatti नियत the रिकार्ड लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron ग्रैंड खेल vitesse , reaching  on average a top speed of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut  warkuss , और the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen , साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य होने conducted अंतर्गत the मार्गदर्शन  of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A number of  खास विसंगतियाँ have महरूम उत्पादित  .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began offering  prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स रंग by using the veyron 16.4 configurator अनुप्रयोग on the marque  's official website .
DVD is an optical disc storage format , invented  और विकसित by फिलिप्स , सोनी , तोशिबा , और पैनासोनिक in  1995 .
DVDs offer  उच्चतर भंडार क्षमता than कॉम्पैक्ट discs जबकि  having the same dimensions .
pre-recorded dvds हैं mass-produced using सांचा मशीने  that physically stamp data onto the DVD .
Such discs are known as DVD-  rom , क्युकी आंकड़ा can तभी be पढ़ा और नहीं  written nor erased .
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a  dvd रिकॉर्डर और तब फलन as a dvd-rom . rewritable dvds ( dvd-rw , dvd+rw , और dvd-ram ) can be अंकित  and erased multiple times .
DVDs are used in DVD-Video  उपभोक्ता डिजिटल वीडियो स्वरूप और in dvd-audio उपभोक्ता डिजिटल ऑडियो स्वरूप , as खूब as लिये authoring  AVCHD discs .
DVDs  containing अन्य प्रकार of सूचना may be referred to as dvd आंकड़ा  discs .
What Chilli Wants is an American reality  श्रेणी on vh1 अभिनीत chilli , one-third of  the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC .
The show  क्रॉनिकल्स chilli 's क्वेस्ट to ढूँढें प्रेम साथ the सहायता of tionna T. smalls  , an author and relationship coach .
The series premiered  on अप्रैल 11 , 2010 , और रै चूंकि  been renewed for a second season .
The second  ऋतु premiered on संडे , जनवरी 2 , 2011  .
Peter  जीन hernandez ( born अक्तूबर 8 , 1985 ) , ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम ब्रूनो मंगल , is an अमरीकी  singer-songwriter and record producer .
Raised in Honolulu , Hawaii , by a family of musicians , Mars began  बनाना म्यूज़िक at a यंग आयु और performed in विभिन्न musical venues in उसके गृहनगर throughout उसके बाल्यकाल  .
He graduated  इससे ऊँची स्कूल और तब स्थानांतरित to लॉस एंजिल्स ,  California , to pursue a musical career .
Mars  उत्पादित गीतों लिये अन्य कलाकारों , joining उत्पादन टोली  The Smeezingtons .
Mars had an  unsuccessful कार्यावधि साथ motown रिकॉर्ड , लकिन तब हस्ताक्षरित  with Atlantic in 2009 .
He became recognized as a solo artist after lending his vocals  और co-writing the hooks लिये the गीतों `` nothin ' on तुम ``  by B.o.B , and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy .
He also  co-wrote the हिट्स `` सही गोलाकार `` by flo rida featuring ke $ ha , और `` wavin ' ध्वज ``  by K'naan .
in अक्तूबर 2010 , he released उसके डेब्यू एल्बम  , Doo-Wops & Hooligans .
Anchored by the worldwide number-one  singles `` बस the रास्ता तुम हैं `` और `` ग्रेनेड `` , the एल्बम peaked at क्रमांक  three on the Billboard 200 .
Mars was nominated for seven Grammys at the  53rd ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , जीतना बेहतरीन पुरूष पॉप गायन प्रदर्शन लिये `` बस the रास्ता तुम  Are '' .
His  दूसरी स्टुडियो एल्बम , अपरंपरागत ज्यूकबॉक्स , थी released  on December 11 , 2012 .
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide  किस्में of शैलियाँ और प्रभाव , और contains  elements of many musical genres .
He has  worked साथ an assortment of कलाकारों  from various genres .
As a child , he was highly influenced by artists such as Little Richard , Elvis  प्रेस्ली और माइकल जैक्सन और होता प्रायः impersonate ये कलाकारों इससे a यंग  age .
Mars  भी incorporates रेगी - और motown -inspired  sounds into his work .
विश्वव्यापी , मंगल became the best-selling डिजिटल  artist in 2011 .
He had three singles in the top ten , including  पहला प्लेस साथ `` बस the रास्ता तुम हैं '' , जिससे बेची 12.5 लाख नक़ल  .
Mars won Best International Male Solo  कलाकार at the 2012 ब्रिट पुरस्कार  .
Bruno Mars has sold 6  लाख एल्बम और 40 लाख singles विश्वव्यापी  as a singer .
Althought as a  song-writer , निर्माता और सिंगर उसके कुल सिंगल डाउनलोड बिक्री surpass  100 million worldwide .
Bust of Zeus , Otricoli (  sala रोटोंडा , museo pio-clementino  , Vatican ) .
यूनानी mythology is the देह of मिथकों और शिक्षाओं कि belong to the प्राचीन यूनानियों , concerning उनके देवताओं और नायक  , the nature of the world , and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices .
It was a  भाग of the धर्म in प्राचीन यूनानियों और is भाग of धर्म in आधुनिक यूनानियों और around the संसार  , known as Hellenismos .
Modern scholars  refer to और पढ़ाई the मिथकों in an attempt to throw लाइट on the धार्मिक और राजनैतिक संस्थानों  of Ancient Greece and its civilization , and to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself .
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives , and  implicitly in यूनानी representational कला , ऐसे as vase-paintings और votive उपहार  .
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world , and details the lives and adventures of a wide  किस्में of देवताओं , देवियाँ , नायक , heroines , और पौराणिक जीव  .
These accounts initially were  disseminated in an oral-poetic परंपरा ; आज the यूनानी मिथकों हैं ज्ञात primarily  from Greek literature .
The oldest known Greek literary sources , Homer  's एपिक कविताएं इलियड और ओडिसी , फ़ोकस on कार्यक्रम surrounding  the Trojan War .
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod , the Theogony and the Works and Days ,  contain खाते of the उत्पत्ति of the संसार , the उत्तराधिकार of दैवी शासकों , the उत्तराधिकार of इंसान आयु , the उत्पत्ति  of human woes , and the origin of sacrificial practices .
मिथकों हैं भी preserved in the homeric hymns , in fragments of एपिक कविताएं of the एपिक साईकिल , in lyric कविताएं , in the works of the tragedians of the पांचवां सदी bc , in कृतियाँ of विद्वानों और कवियों of  the Hellenistic Age , and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias .
Archaeological findings provide a principal source of  विवरण परिचय यूनानी mythology , साथ देवताओं और नायक प्रदर्शित prominently in the सजावट  of many artifacts .
Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth century BC  depict दृश्यों इससे the trojan साईकिल as खूब as the adventures of heracles  .
In the succeeding  archaic , शास्त्रीय , और hellenistic अवधि , homeric और विभिन्न अन्य पौराणिक दृश्यों  appear , supplementing the existing literary evidence .
Greek mythology has  था an extensive influence on the संस्कृति , कला , और साहित्य of पश्चिमी सभ्यता  and remains part of Western heritage and language .
Poets and artists  इससे प्राचीन टाइम्स to the उपस्थित have निकला प्रेरणा इससे यूनानी  mythology and have discovered contemporary significance and relevance in the themes .
मुँह & macneal  in 1971
Mouth & MacNeal  थी a पॉप duo इससे the नीदरलैंड्स  .
They are best known for  उनके लाख selling रिकॉर्डिंग of `` कैसा do  You Do `` .
The Boise State  broncos फ़ुटबॉल कार्यक्रम represents boise राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों in कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और compete in the फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs  ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference .
They are currently led by head coach  क्रिस petersen और खेल उनके घर खेल at bronco  Stadium .
The franc ( sign : Fr . or SFr . ; German : Franken , French and Romansh :  फ़्रैंक , इतालवी : फ्रेंको ; कोड : chf ) is the करेंसी और विधिक टेंडर of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein  ; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia .
हालांकि नहीं formally विधिक टेंडर in the जर्मनी exclave büsingen ( the एकमात्र विधिक  currency is the euro ) , it is in wide daily use there .
The Swiss  नेशनल बैंको मुद्दे banknotes और the संघीय  mint Swissmint issues coins .
the स्विस फ़्रैंक is the तभी संस्करण of the  franc still issued in Europe .
The smaller denomination , a hundredth of a franc , is a Rappen ( Rp . ) in German  , centime ( c. ) in फ्रेंच , centesimo ( ct. ) in इतालवी , और रैप ( rp . ) in romansh  .
The ISO code of  the करेंसी प्रयुक्त by बैंको और वित्तीय संस्थानों is chf , हालांकि `` fr . '' is प्रयुक्त by सबसे व्यवसायों और विज्ञापनदाता ; कुछ उपयोग sfr . ; the latinate  `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica .
Given the  अलग भाषाएं प्रयुक्त in स्विट्ज़रलैंड , लैटिन is प्रयुक्त लिये language-neutral  inscriptions on the coins .
Sir  चार्ल्स स्पेंसर `` चार्ली '' चैपलिन , ( 16 अप्रैल 188925 दिसम्बर 1977 ) थी a अंग्रेजों  comic actor and filmmaker who rose to fame in the silent era .
Chaplin became a worldwide icon  through उसके स्क्रीन persona `` the ट्रैम्प `` और is माना एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण  figures of the film industry .
His career spanned more than 75 years , from a child in the  विक्टोरियन era to बंद to उसके मौत at the आयु of 88 , और encompassed दोनो  adulation and controversy .
Raised in London ,  चैपलिन 's बाल्यकाल थी पारिभाषित by गरीबी और  hardship .
He was sent to a workhouse twice before  the आयु of नौ ; उसके पिता थी अनुपस्थित , और उसके माँ थी वचनबद्ध  to a mental asylum .
Chaplin began performing from a young age  , touring म्यूज़िक हॉल और बाद working as a स्टेज कर्ता  and comedian .
At 19 he was signed to  the prestigious फ्रेड karno कम्पनी , जिससे took उसे  to America .
Chaplin was scouted by  the फिल्मी उद्योग , और बना उसके पहला दिखावे in 1914  with Keystone Studios .
He soon developed the Tramp persona  और formed a विशाल प्रशंसक आधार  .
Chaplin  निर्देशित उसके films इससे an जल्दी स्टेज , और जारी to hone उसके शिल्प as he स्थानांतरित to the essanay , परस्पर  , and First National corporations .
By 1918 , he  थी एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध मेन  in the world .
In 1919  , चैपलिन co-founded the वितरण कम्पनी संयुक्त कलाकारों , giving उसे पूरा  control over his films .
His  पहला feature-length चित्र थी the बच्चा ( 1921 ) , followed by a स्त्री of पेरिस  ( 1923 ) , The Gold Rush ( 1925 ) , and The Circus ( 1928 ) .
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s , instead  producing नगर लाइट्स ( 1931 ) और आधुनिक टाइम्स ( 1936 ) बगैर संवाद  .
Chaplin became increasingly political  और उसके अगला फिल्मी , the ग्रेट तानाशाह ( 1940 ) , satirised  Adolf Hitler .
The 1940s was  a दशक चिह्नित साथ विवाद लिये चैपलिन , और उसके लोकप्रियता  declined rapidly .
He was accused of communist sympathies , while  उसके भागीदारी in a paternity सूट और विवाह to much younger महिलाओं यहूद माना  scandalous .
An FBI investigation was opened on Chaplin , and he was eventually  मजबूर to छोड़ the संयुक्त राज्य और settle in स्विट्ज़रलैंड .
He abandoned the Tramp for his later films , which include Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ) ,  limelight ( 1952 ) , a किंग in नई यॉर्क ( 1957 )  , and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ) .
Chaplin wrote , directed ,  उत्पादित , संपादित , scored , और स्ट्रक्चर in सबसे of  his films .
He was a  perfectionist , और उसके वित्तीय स्वतंत्रता meant he प्रायः खर्च सालो on the विकास  and production of a picture .
His films are characterised by slapstick  संयुक्त साथ pathos , और प्रायः विशेषता the ट्रैम्प struggling विरूद्ध  adversity .
Many contain social and political  विषयवस्तु , as खूब as autobiographical तत्व  .
In 1972 , as part of a renewed  सराहना लिये उसके कार्य , चैपलिन प्राप्त an मानद अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये `` the incalculable प्रभाव he  has had in making motion pictures the art form of this century '' .
He continues to be held in high  लिहाज़ , साथ the सुनहरा फटाफट , नगर लाइट्स , आधुनिक टाइम्स , और the ग्रेट तानाशाह प्रायः क्रमित among the महानतम  films of all time .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ) ,  commonly shortened to नियोजित parenthood , is the u.S. संबद्ध of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियोजित parenthood  Federation ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members .
PPFA is a non-profit organization  providing reproductive स्वास्थ्य और मातृ और चाइल्ड  health services .
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund , Inc. ( PPAF ) is a related organization which lobbies for pro-choice legislation ,  व्यापक sex शिक्षा , और अभिगम to सस्ती स्वास्थ्य परवाह in the संयुक्त  States .
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. provider of reproductive health  सेवाएं , सहित कर्कट स्क्रीनिंग , hiv स्क्रीनिंग और counseling , निरोधक  , and abortion .
Contraception accounts  लिये 35 % of ppfa 's कुल सेवाएं और abortions खाता लिये 3 % ; ppfa conducts roughly 300,000 abortions  each year , among 3 million people served .
The organization has its roots in Brooklyn , New York , where  मार्गरेट सैंगर खोली the देश 's पहला birth-control  clinic .
Sanger  संस्थापित the अमरीकी जनम कंट्रोल लीग in 1921 , जिससे in 1942  became part of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America .
Since then , Planned  parenthood रै grown to have over 820 क्लिनिक स्थितियाँ in  the U.S. , with a total budget of US $ 1 billion .
PPFA provides an array  of सेवाएं to over तीन लाख लोगों in the संयुक्त राज्य , और supports सेवाएं लिये over एक  million clients outside the United States .
Mens rea  is लैटिन लिये `` अपराधी  mind '' .
In criminal law , it is viewed as  एक of the जरुरी तत्व of कुछ अपराधों  .
The standard common law test of criminal liability is  प्रायः expressed in the लैटिन phrase , actus गैर facit reum nisi पुरुषों बैठना rea , जिससे  means `` the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty '' .
Thus , in jurisdictions with due process , there must be  an actus reus , or `` अपराधी अधिनियम , '' accompanied by कुछ स्तर of पुरुषों rea to constitute the अपराधों साथ जिससे the प्रतिवादी is चार्ज  ( see the technical requirement of concurrence ) .
As a general rule , criminal liability  करता नहीं संलग्न to a व्यक्ति जो acted साथ the अनुपस्थिति of दिमागी  fault .
the एक्सेप्शन is सख्त  liability crimes .
In civil law , it  is प्रायः नहीं जरुरी to prove a subjective दिमागी तत्व to स्थापित देयता  for breach of contract or tort , for example .
However , if a tort is intentionally committed or a  अनुबंध is intentionally breached , ऐसे intent may बढ़ाएँ the पैमाना of देयता as खूब as the माप of क्षतिपूर्ति देय to the  plaintiff .
इसलिए , पुरुषों rea refers to the दिमागी तत्व of the अपराध कि  accompanies the actus reus .
In some jurisdictions , the terms mens  rea और actus reus have महरूम replaced by वैकल्पिक  terminology .
In Australia , for example , the elements of the federal offences are now  designated as `` दोष तत्व '' or `` दिमागी तत्व '' ( पुरुषों rea ) और `` शारीरिक  elements '' or `` external elements '' ( actus reus ) .
This terminology was adopted to replace the obscurity of the Latin terms  साथ सरल और सटीक phrasing  .
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ;  अप्रैल 27 , 1822 – जुलाई 23 , 1885 ) थी the 18th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1869–1877 ) following उसके अत्यधिक कामयाब  role as a war general in the second half of the Civil War .
Under Grant , the Union Army defeated the Confederate military ;  having effectively ended the युद्ध और secession साथ the आत्मसमर्पण of रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज at appomattox  .
As president he  led the कट्टरपंथी republicans in उनके प्रयत्न to eliminate सब vestiges of confederate राष्ट्रवाद  and slavery .
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and having desired to protect African  अमरीकी नागरिकता , अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट effectively नष्ट the ku klux क्लान in 1871  .
Grant was the first  अध्यक्ष to स्थापित सिविल सेवा सुधार having निर्मित a two-year  federally funded Civil Service Commission in 1871 .
In terms of foreign policy ,  ग्रान्ट नाज़िल an `` अनपेक्षित क्षमता लिये विवेचना और परामर्श '' कि प्रचारित the नेशनल  interest .
His reputation was marred by his  दोहराया रक्षा of भ्रष्ट appointees , और by अमेरिका 's पहला औद्योगिक आयु आर्थिक अवसाद ( पुकारा the `` दहशत of  1873 `` ) that dominated his second term .
Although his Republican  पार्टी विभाजित in 1872 साथ reformers denouncing उसे , ग्रान्ट थी  easily reelected .
By 1875 the conservative white Southern  विपक्ष regained कंट्रोल of प्रत्येक राज्य in the दक्षिण और as he बाएँ the श्वेत हाउस in कूच 1877 उसके नीतियों  were being undone .
A career soldier , he graduated from the United States Military Academy at West  पाइंट और परोसा in the mexican–american युद्ध .
When the Civil War began in 1861 ,  ग्रान्ट प्रशिक्षित संघ स्वयंसेवी regiments in इलिनोइस  .
In 1862 , as a general  he लड़ा a श्रेणी of लड़ाइयों और थी प्रचारित to प्रमुख सामान्य बाद forcing the आत्मसमर्पण of a विशाल confederate  army and gaining control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee .
He then led Union forces to victory after initial setbacks in the  बैटल of shiloh , कमाई a प्रतिष्ठा as an आक्रामक कमांडर .
In July 1863 ,  बाद a long , जटिल अभियान , ग्रान्ट पराजित पाँच uncoordinated confederate सेना ( capturing एक  of them ) and seized Vicksburg .
इस प्रसिद्ध विजय दिया the संघ पूरा कंट्रोल of the मिसिसिपी नदी , विभाजित बंद the पश्चिमी confederacy  , and opened the way for more Union triumphs .
After another win at the Battle  of चट्टानूगा in लेट 1863 , अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln बना उसे लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य और कमांडर  of all of the Union Armies .
As commanding general of the army ,  ग्रान्ट confronted रॉबर्ट E. ली in a श्रेणी of बहुत खूनी लड़ाइयों in 1864 ज्ञात as the overland अभियान कि ended साथ the  bottling up of Lee at Petersburg , outside the Confederate capital of Richmond .
During the siege , Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns  शुभारम्भ by विलियम tecumseh शरमन , फिलिप  Sheridan , and George Thomas .
Finally breaking through Lee 's trenches , the  संघ फौज captured रिचमंड in अप्रैल 1865  .
Lee  surrendered उसके depleted शक्तियां to ग्रान्ट at appomattox as the confederacy  collapsed .
Although pro-Confederate  इतिहासकारों attacked ग्रान्ट as a निष्ठुर कसाई जो जीती by brute फ़ोर्स , सबसे इतिहासकारों have hailed  his military genius .
Grant 's two  लगातार शर्तें as अध्यक्ष stabilized the स्वदेश बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और दौरान the  turbulent Reconstruction period that followed .
As president , he enforced  पुनर्निर्माण by enforcing सिविल अधिकारों कानून और लड़  Ku Klux Klan violence .
ग्रान्ट जीती ड्योढ़ी of the पंद्रहवीं amendment ; giving संवैधानिक सुरक्षा लिये african-american  voting rights .
He used the army to build the Republican  पार्टी in the दक्षिण , आधारित on ब्लैक मतदाता , उत्तरी newcomers ( `` carpetbaggers `` ) और देशी श्वेत समर्थक ( `` scalawags . ''  )
As a  परिणाम , अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी यहूद represented in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस  for the first time in American history in 1870 .
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having broken the deadlock on Indian  appropriations in कॉंग्रेस , the सृष्टि of the फलक of भारतीय commissioners to मेक सुधार सुझाव  , and his enlistment of Quaker Protestants who controlled mid western Indian agencies , that effectively curbed Congressional patronage .
ग्रान्ट remained संकल्पित in keeping इंडियंस  from being exterminated from white settler encroachment or by the U.S. military .
Grant 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an  all-time ऊँची लिये उसके पिछला वीटो of the महंगाई विधेयक , the ड्योढ़ी of the resumption of specie अधिनियम , और सचिव bristow  's successful raids that shut down the Whiskey Ring .
Grant 's foreign policy , led by Secretary of State  हैमिल्टन मछली , implemented अंतरराष्ट्रीय मध्यस्थता , settled the अलबामा दावा साथ ब्रिटेन और avoided युद्ध साथ स्पेन  over the Virginius Affair .
A jukebox is a partially automated music-playing  यंत्र , प्रायः a coin-operated यंत्र , कि होगा खेल a संरक्षक 's चयन  from self-contained media .
The classic  ज्यूकबॉक्स रै बटन साथ अक्षर और संख्याएँ on उन्हें कि , जब डाला in  combination , are used to play a specific selection .
A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example  मूत्र , बाल , रक्त , स्वेद , or मौखिक द्रव / लार – to determine the उपस्थिति or अनुपस्थिति of निर्दिष्ट जनक दवाएँ or उनके  metabolites .
Major uses of drug testing  हैं to detect the उपस्थिति of प्रदर्शन बढ़ाना steroids in खेल or लिये  drugs prohibited by laws , such as cannabis , cocaine and heroin .
A ``  10-panel मूत्र स्क्रीन '' consists  of the following:
amphetamines ( सहित  Methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids ( thc  )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates (  codeine , मॉरफीन , हेरोइन , oxycodone  , Hydrocodone , etc . )
phencyclidine  ( PCP )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket ,  प्रयुक्त लिये the अमरीकी मानवयुक्त चंद्र  landing missions
Space exploration is the  डिस्कवरी और खोजी of बाहरी स्पेस by अर्थात्  of space technology .
Physical  खोजी of स्पेस is conducted दोनो by इंसान spaceflights और by रोबोटिक  spacecraft .
While  the अवलोकन of वस्तुएँ in स्पेस , ज्ञात as खगोलशास्त्र , predates विश्वसनीय अंकित इतिहास , it थी the विकास of विशाल और अपेक्षाकृत कुशल rockets दौरान  the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality .
Common rationales for exploring space  शामिल advancing वैज्ञानिक शोध , uniting अलग राष्ट्र , ensuring the भविष्य अस्तित्व of मानवता और विकासशील सैन्य और रणनीतिक लाभ  against other countries .
विभिन्न आलोचनाओं of स्पेस खोजी हैं sometimes  made .
Space  खोजी रै प्रायः महरूम प्रयुक्त as a प्रॉक्सी प्रतियोगिता लिये geopolitical rivalries  such as the Cold War .
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` Space Race `` between the  सोवियत संघ और the संयुक्त राज्य , the लॉन्च of the पहला man-made ऑब्जेक्ट to कक्षा the धरती , the ussr 's sputnik 1 , on 4 अक्तूबर 1957 , और the पहला चंद्रमा लैंडिंग by the  American Apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the boundaries for this initial period .
The  सोवियत स्पेस कार्यक्रम हासिल अनेक of the पहला माइलस्टोन , सहित the पहला जीना होने in कक्षा in 1957 , the पहला इंसान spaceflight ( यूरी गगारिन  aboard Vostok 1 ) in 1961 , the first spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965 , the first automatic landing on another celestial body in 1966 , and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971 .
After the first 20 years of exploration , focus  shifted इससे one-off फ़्लाइट to बेदर्दी हार्डवेयर , ऐसे as the स्पेस शटल कार्यक्रम , और इससे प्रतियोगिता to सहयोग as साथ  the International Space Station ( ISS ) .
With  the substantial पूर्णता of the iss following sts-133 in कूच  2011 , plans for space exploration by the USA remain in flux .
Constellation , a Bush Administration  कार्यक्रम लिये a वापसी to the चंद्रमा by 2020 थी judged inadequately वित्तपोषित और unrealistic by an विशेषज्ञ पुनर्विलोकन  panel reporting in 2009 .
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus  on the विकास of the काबिलियत लिये crewed मिशन परे कम धरती कक्षा ( leo ) , envisioning extending the आपरेशन of the iss परे 2020 , transferring the विकास of लॉन्च वाहनों लिये इंसान क्रू इससे नासा to the निजी सेक्टर , और विकासशील प्रौद्योगिकी to enable  missions to beyond LEO , such as Earth/Moon L1 , the Moon , Earth/Sun L2 , near-earth asteroids , and Phobos or Mars orbit .
As of March 2011 , the US Senate and House of Representatives are still working towards a compromise  नासा funding विधेयक , जिससे होगा संभवतः terminate नक्षत्र और निधि विकास of a भारी लिफ्ट लॉन्च गाडी ( hllv  ) .
In the 2000s , the  लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन initiated a कामयाब मानवयुक्त spaceflight कार्यक्रम , जबकि the यूरोपीय संघ , जापानी , और इण्डिया have भी नियोजित भविष्य  manned space missions .
China , Russia , Japan , and India have  advocated मानवयुक्त मिशन to the चंद्रमा दौरान the 21st सदी , जबकि the यूरोपीय संघ रै  advocated manned missions to both the Moon and Mars during the 21st century .
From  the 1990s onwards , निजी रूचि began promoting स्पेस पर्यटन और तब निजी  space exploration of the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize ) .
John Calvin Coolidge , Jr. ( July 4 , 1872January  5 , 1933 ) थी the 30th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1923–1929  ) .
A Republican lawyer from Vermont , Coolidge worked  उसके रास्ता up the सीढ़ियाँ of मैसाचुसेट्स राज्य राजनीती , आखिरकार बनने राज्यपाल of कि राज्य  .
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust him into the  नेशनल स्पॉटलाइट और दिया उसे a प्रतिष्ठा as a man of निर्णायक कार्रवाई  .
Soon after , he was  निर्वाचित as the 29th वाइस अध्यक्ष in 1920 और succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी upon  the sudden death of Warren G. Harding in 1923 .
Elected in his own  सही in 1924 , he gained a प्रतिष्ठा as a small-government रूढ़िवादी , और  also as a man who said very little .
कूलिज लौटी पब्लिक विश्वास in the श्वेत हाउस बाद the घोटालों of उसके पूर्ववर्ती 's प्रशासन  , and left office with considerable popularity .
As a Coolidge  biographer put it , `` he समाविष्ट the स्पिरिट और उम्मीदें of the मध्य  class , could interpret their longings and express their opinions .
कि he किया represent the प्रतिभाशाली of the औसत is  the most convincing proof of his strength . ''
Some later  criticized कूलिज as भाग of a सामान्य आलोचना of laissez-faire  government .
His reputation underwent a renaissance during the Ronald Reagan Administration , but the  परम मूल्यांकन of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी is स्टिल विभाजित between those जो स्वीकृति of उसके कटौती of the आकार of सरकारी कार्यक्रम और those जो मानना the संघीय सरकारी चाहिए  be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy .
Espresso is a concentrated beverage brewed by  forcing a छोटी राशि of nearly खौलते जल अंतर्गत दबाव through  finely ground coffee beans .
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee  brewed by अन्य विधि , a उच्चतर विशेषज्ञता of निलंबित और dissolved solids , और crema ( अर्थ मलाई , लकिन होने a सन्दर्भ to the झाग साथ a मलाईदार बनावट कि फ़ॉर्म as a परिणाम  of the pressure ) .
As a result of the pressurized brewing process  the जायका और रसायन in a ठेठ कप of  espresso are very concentrated .
Espresso is the base for other  पेय , ऐसे as a latte , कापुचीनो , macchiato , मोचा , or americano  .
Espresso has more caffeine per unit volume than most beverages , but the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso has 80 to 150 mg  of कैफीन , छोटी कम than the 95 to 200 mg of a मानक 240 ml ( 8 us द्रव औंस ) कप  of drip-brewed coffee .
Brian Keith Kelly ( born  अक्तूबर 25 , 1961 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच और पूर्व खिलाड़ी  .
He is currently the head football coach for the  notre dame लड़ आयरिश , a स्थिति he रै आयोजित चूंकि  December 2009 .
Kelly was previously head coach at Grand Valley State University (  1991–2003 ) , सेंट्रल मिशिगन विश्वविद्यालयों ( 2004–2006 ) , और विश्वविद्यालयों of सिनसिनाटी  ( 2006–2009 ) .
A contract is  an अनुबंध having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो  or more parties , each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal  क्षमता जो एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of दायित्व .  ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be  किया in लिखने , हालांकि अनुबंध may be बना entirely orally or by conduct  .
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages  '' in the रूप of मुआवजे of धन or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन enforced through  an injunction .
Both of these remedies award  the पार्टी at घाटा the `` लाभ of the सौदेबाजी '' or अपेक्षा क्षतिपूर्ति , जिससे हैं वृहद than mere रिलायंस क्षतिपूर्ति  , as in promissory estoppel .
The parties may be natural  व्यक्तियों or juristic व्यक्तियों  .
A contract is a legally enforceable  वादा or undertaking कि कुछ होगा or होगा नहीं occur  .
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for  अनुबंध , हालांकि परवाह is जरूरी as a वादा may नहीं have the पूरा खड़ा of a अनुबंध , as  when it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another , including differences in common law compared to civil law ,  the प्रभाव of प्राप्त विधि , विशेषकर इससे इंग्लैण्ड in आम विधि देशों , और of विधि संहिताबद्ध in क्षेत्रीय  legislation .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example , there are 40 relevant acts  जिससे प्रभाव on the निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल  ) level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition there are 6  अंतरराष्ट्रीय यंत्र or प्रथाओं जिससे हैं लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings , ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र  Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
Sidney  पैट्रिक crosby , ons ( born अगस्त 7 , 1987 ) is a कनाडाई पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी  player who is captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
Crosby was drafted first overall by the Penguins out  of the क्यूबेक प्रमुख जूनियर हॉकी लीग (  QMJHL ) .
During his two-year major junior career with the Rimouski Océanic , he  अर्जित back-to-back chl खिलाड़ी of the साल पुरस्कार और led उसके क्लबों to the 2005 मेमोरियल  Cup final .
Nicknamed `` The Next One `` , he was one of the most  अत्यधिक regarded ड्राफ्ट चयन in हॉकी इतिहास , अग्रणी अनेक to refer to the 2005 ड्राफ्ट लॉटरी as the `` sidney  Crosby Sweepstakes '' .
In his first NHL season , Crosby finished sixth  in लीग स्कोरिंग साथ 102 अंक ( 39 लक्ष्य , 63 assists ) और थी a runner-up लिये the calder मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी ( जीती by सिकंदर  Ovechkin ) .
By his second season , he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals , 84 assists )  to कैप्चर the आर्ट रॉस ट्रॉफी , बनने the youngest खिलाड़ी और the तभी किशोरावस्था to जीत a स्कोरिंग शीर्षक  in any major North American sports league .
That same season , Crosby also won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey Writers Association 's choice for most valuable player and the  लेस्टर B. पियर्सन पुरस्कार as the एनएचएल खिलाड़ी संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी , बनने the सातवाँ खिलाड़ी  in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year .
Crosby started the 2007–08 season with the team 's captaincy and subsequently  led उन्हें to the 2008 स्टेनली कप फाइनल , जहाँ वे यहूद पराजित by the डेट्रॉयट रेड विंग्स  in six games .
The Penguins returned to the Finals against  डेट्रॉयट the following साल और जीती in सात खेल ; crosby became the youngest कप्तान in एनएचएल  history to win the Stanley Cup .
In the 2009–10 season , Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals , tying him with Steven Stamkos for  the प्रक्षेपास्त्र रिचर्ड ट्रॉफी as the league-leader ; साथ 58 assists , he totaled 109 अंक  , second in the NHL .
During the off-season , Crosby  प्राप्त the चिह्नित मेसियर नेतृत्व  Award .
In 2010–11 , Crosby  sustained a concussion as a परिणाम of हिट्स to the  head in back-to-back games .
The injury  बाएँ उसे sidelined लिये  ten and a half months .
However , after playing eight games in the 2011–12 season ,  crosby 's concussion-like लक्षण लौटे in दिसम्बर 2011 , और he किया नहीं वापसी जबतक mid-march  2012 .
Internationally , Crosby has represented Canada  in numerous tournaments लिये the देश 's जूनियर और  men 's teams .
After competing in the 2003 U-18  जूनियर संसार कप , he represented कनाडा in back-to-back iihf संसार u20 championships  , winning silver in 2004 and gold in 2005 .
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship , he led the  टूर्नामेंट in स्कोरिंग , जबकि भी कमाई शीर्ष आगे और all-star टोली honours  .
Four years later , Crosby was  नामित to टोली कनाडा लिये the 2010 शीत ओलंपिक in  Vancouver .
Playing  the संयुक्त राज्य in the सुनहरा पदक खेल , he scored the game-winning  goal in overtime .
A  संयुक्त राज्य cent , भी ज्ञात as  a penny .
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its longer version `` put my two cents in '' is an United States ( US ) idiomatic  अभिव्यक्ति , लिया इससे the असली अंग्रेज़ी मुहावरा अभिव्यक्ति : to put in `` my दो कौड़ी लायक '' or `` my tuppence  worth . ''
It is used to preface the  अंतरिम stating of one’s राय  .
By deprecating the opinion to follow – suggesting its value is only two cents ,  a बहुत छोटी राशि – the उपयोक्ता of the phrase उम्मीदें to lessen the प्रभाव of a संभवतः बयान  , showing politeness and humility .
However , it is also sometimes used with  विडंबना जब expressing a strongly लगा राय  .
The phrase is also  प्रयुक्त आउट of आदत to preface uncontentious  opinions .
For  example:
The Chinese Civil War was a  सिविल युद्ध in चीन लड़ा between शक्तियां वफ़ादार to the सरकारी of the गणतंत्र of चीन led by the kuomintang ( kmt ) और शक्तियां  of the Communist Party of China ( CPC ) .
The war began in April  1927 , amidst the उत्तरी expedition , और essentially  ended when major active battles ceased in 1950 .
The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states , the Republic of China ( ROC ) in Taiwan and  the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन ( पीआरसी ) in मेनलैंड चीन , दोनो claiming to be the legitimate सरकारी of  China .
The war represented an  वैचारिक विभाजित ( बाएँ vs . सही ) between the कम्युनिस्ट cpc , और the  KMT 's brand of Nationalism .
The civil war continued intermittently until late 1937 , when the two parties formed a  दूसरी संयुक्त सामने to काउंटर a जापानी आक्रमण .
China 's  full-scale सिविल युद्ध resumed in 1946 , a साल बाद  the end of hostilities with Japan .
After four more years , 1950 saw  the cessation of प्रमुख सैन्य hostilities—with the newly संस्थापित लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन controlling मेनलैंड चीन ( सहित हाइनान ) , और the गणतंत्र of चीन 's क्षेत्राधिकार  being restricted to Taiwan , Penghu , Quemoy , Matsu and several outlying islands .
The Kuomintang defeat is attributed to several  कारकों : भ्रष्टाचार - च्यांग लिखा in उसके डायरी on जून 1948 कि the kmt था विफल , नहीं क्युकी of बाह्य  enemies but because of rot from within .
Strong initial  support इससे the u.S. diminished , और तब  , stopped .
( Partly because of KMT  भ्रष्टाचार और anti-democratic शासन , और partly क्युकी of the अनिश्चित u.S. विदेशी नीति towards साम्यवादी between 1945 और 1950 ) ; कम्युनिस्ट जमीन  reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords .
This  ensured pla लोकप्रिय  support .
After the surrender of Japan at the end of World War II , Soviet forces  turned over उनके captured जापानी हथियार to the cpc और अनुमत the cpc to लो कंट्रोल of territory  in Manchuria .
To this day , no armistice or peace treaty has ever been signed ,  और it is debated as to the whether the सिविल युद्ध रै legally ended  .
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by military threats and political  और आर्थिक दबाव , विशेषकर over ताईवान 's राजनैतिक औकात , साथ दोनो सरकारें officially  adhering to a `` One-China policy . ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory  और continues to threaten the आरओसी साथ a सैन्य आक्रमण if the आरओसी officially declares स्वतंत्रता by बदलना इसके नाम to और  gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan .
The ROC mutually claims mainland China , and  वे दोनो continue the लड़ो over राजनयिक  recognition .
Today , the  युद्ध as ऐसे occurs on the राजनैतिक और आर्थिक fronts in the रूप of cross-strait संबंध ; however , the दो पृथक de facto  states have close economic ties .
The One Hundred Twelfth United States Congress was the  बैठक of the विधान शाखा of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी , इससे जनवरी 3 , 2011 जबतक जनवरी  3 , 2013 .
It convened in Washington , D.C. on January  3 , 2011 , और ended on जनवरी 3 , 2013 , 17 दिनों पहले  the end of the presidential term to which Barack Obama was elected in 2008 .
सीनेटरों निर्वाचित to नियमित शर्तें in 2006  completed those terms in this Congress .
This  कॉंग्रेस शामिल the पिछला हाउस of प्रतिनिधि निर्वाचित इससे congressional जिले  that were apportioned based on the 2000 census .
In the 2010 midterm elections , the Republican Party won the majority  in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि .
While the Democrats kept their  सीनेट बहुमत , it थी घटाया इससे the पिछला  Congress .
This was the first Congress in which the  हाउस और सीनेट यहूद नियंत्रित by अलग पार्टियों चूंकि the 107th कॉंग्रेस ( 2001–2003 ) , और the पहला कॉंग्रेस to शुरू  that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ) .
In  इस कॉंग्रेस , the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि था the largest क्रमांक of रिपब्लिकन  members , 242 , since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ) .
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no  सदस्य of the कैनेडी परिवार परोसा , as खूब as the सबसे नीतियां polarized कॉंग्रेस चूंकि  Reconstruction , with record low approval ratings .
Wealth in the United  राज्य is commonly measured in शर्तें of जाल लायक , जिससे is the योग of सब एसेट  , including home equity , minus all liabilities .
the कुल जाल लायक of us households और nonprofit संगठन 1945–2009 , unadjusted  for inflation or population change .
For example , a household in possession of an $ 800,000 house , $ 5,000 in mutual funds , $ 30,000 in cars , $  20,000 लायक of भण्डार in उनके अपना कम्पनी , और a $ 45,000 ira होता  have assets totaling $ 900,000 .
Assuming that this household would have a $  250,000 बंधक , $ 40,000 in car लोन , और $ 10,000 in क्रेडिट कार्ड कर्ज़ , इसके debts  would total $ 300,000 .
Subtracting the debts  इससे the लायक of इस household 's एसेट ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ) , इस household होता have  a net worth of $ 600,000 .
Net worth can vary with fluctuations  in मान of the underlying एसेट  .
The wealth —more specifically , the  मध्य जाल worth—of households in the संयुक्त राज्य is varied साथ संबंध to रेस , शिक्षा , भौगोलिक  location and gender .
As one would expect , households  साथ वृहद आय विशेषता the उच्चतम जाल worths , हालांकि ऊँची आय  can not be taken as an always accurate indicator of net worth .
Overall the number of wealthier households  is on the वृद्धि , साथ baby boomers hitting  the highs of their careers .
In addition , wealth is unevenly  वितरित , साथ the wealthiest 25 % of us households owning 87 % of the माल in the संयुक्त राज्य  , which was $ 54.2 trillion in 2009 .
Including human capital such as  कौशल , the संयुक्त राष्ट्र अनुमानित the कुल माल of the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008  to be $ 118 trillion .
This article deals with Selective  पृष्ठीय rhizotomy ( sdr ) बल्कि than the rhizotomy प्रक्रियाओं लिये पीड़ा राहत ; लिये those प्रक्रियाओं , जिससे have begun to लो the नाम `` rhizotomy  '' in certain instances , see facet rhizotomy and similar .
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the spinal cord , most often to relieve the symptoms  of neuromuscular शर्तें ऐसे as spastic diplegia और अन्य फ़ॉर्म of spastic  cerebral palsy .
The  चयनात्मक पृष्ठीय rhizotomy ( sdr ) लिये spastic दिमागी palsy रै महरूम the प्रमुख उपयोग of rhizotomy लिये neurosurgeons specialising  in spastic CP since the 1980s ; in this surgery , the spasticity-causing nerves are isolated and then targeted and destroyed .
The sensory  तंत्रिका जड़ें , जहाँ spasticity is स्तिथ , हैं पहला अलग इससे the मोटर ones , और the तंत्रिका मछली  to be cut are then identified via electromyographic stimulation .
The ones producing  spasticity हैं तब selectively lesioned साथ छोटा विद्युत pulses  .
In  spasticity , rhizotomy precisely लक्ष्य और नष्ट the क्षतिग्रस्त nerves कि don’t  receive gamma amino butyric acid , which is the core problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy .
These over-firing , non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity  दौरान the emg परीक्षण phase in sdr और हैं यूँ माना to be the सोर्स of the रोगी 's hypertonia ; वे हैं eliminated साथ the विद्युत pulses एकबार पहचाना , जबकि  the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched .
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved , and that this is done without affecting nervous system  संवेदनशीलता or फलन in अन्य क्षेत्रों , क्युकी the तभी nerves नष्ट हैं the over-firing ones जिम्मेदार लिये the मांसपेशी tightness .
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly  बनने interchangeable in the उपचार of दीर्घकालिक वापस पीड़ा इससे अपक्षयी डिस्क बीमारी  .
This is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is instead done on an  outpatient आधार using a सरल जांच to लागू radiofrequency लहरें to the impinged pain-causing तंत्रिका रूट lying between the facet संयुक्त  and the vertebral body .
Such radio  आवृत्ति तंत्रिका lesioning परिणाम in पाँच to आठ or अधिक महीने of पीड़ा राहत पहले the तंत्रिका regenerates और another  round of the procedure needs to be performed .
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many different forms of radiofrequency ablation , and its use of  the `` rhizotomy '' नाम चाहिए नहीं be उलझन साथ  the SDR procedure .
Migrant  मजदूर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया , 1935
The term migrant worker has  अलग आधिकारिक meanings और connotations in अलग  parts of the world .
The United  राष्ट्र ' परिभाषा is व्यापक , सहित कोई लोगों working बाहर of  their home country .
The term can also be used to describe someone  जो migrates भीतर a देश , संभवतः उनके अपना , in अनुक्रम to pursue कार्य ऐसे as मौसमी  work .
Photograph of Lil Wayne  साथ teardrop टैटू नीचे उसके आँखें  .
The teardrop  टैटू or आंसू टैटू is a सांकेतिक टैटू कि  is placed underneath the eye .
It  रै no फिक्स्ड अर्थ लकिन लगभग सब meanings ( देखिए नीचे ) have  some connection to prison .
U.S.  रूट 75 is a north–south u.S. राजमार्ग  .
The highway 's northern terminus  is in kittson काउंटी , मिनेसोटा , at the कनाडाई किनारा , जहाँ it एकबार जारी as मनिटोबा राजमार्ग 75 on the अन्य  side of the now-closed border crossing .
Its southern  टर्मिनस is at अंतरराज्यीय 30 और अंतरराज्यीय 45 in डलास , टेक्सास , जहाँ it is ज्ञात  as North Central Expressway .
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border route ,  इससे कनाडा to the गल्फ of मैक्सिको at galveston , टेक्सास .
However , the entire segment south of Dallas , Texas has been decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45 , a cutoff section of  town-to-town सतह सड़क having become  State Highway 75 .
Lower Ninth Ward  is a पड़ोस of the नगर of नई ऑरलियन्स  .
As the name implies , it  is भाग of the नवीं वार्ड of नई  Orleans .
The Lower Ninth  वार्ड is प्रायः विचार of as the संपूर्ण क्षेत्रफल भीतर नई ऑरलियन्स downriver of the औद्योगिक कनाल ; however , the नगर नियोजन  Commission divides this area into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods .
The  पद `` निम्नतर '' refers to इसके स्थान दूर towards the मुँह of the मिसिसिपी नदी , ``  down '' or `` below '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology .
But  the 9th वार्ड , जैसे सब wards  in New Orleans , is a voting district .
The 9th Ward was  added as a मतदान ज़िला in  1852 .
The `` lower ''  9th वार्ड is रचित of वार्ड 9 जिले 1 , 2 , 4 , और 7 जिससे मेक up the पावन क्रॉस क्षेत्रफल  and Ward 9 Districts 3 , 5 , 6 , and 8 .
Higher voting district numbers  in the 9th वार्ड ( 8-27 ) हैं on the upriver पक्ष of the औद्योगिक  Canal .
The area came to national  ध्यान लिये इसके devastation in the aftermath  of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 .
Hubble views of  कोपरनिकस crater ( इनसेट ) , जिससे is परिचय 58 मील (  93 km ) wide
Red and orange tinted  चंद्रमा , as देखी इससे धरती दौरान a चंद्र ग्रहण , जहाँ  the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural  उपग्रह of the धरती , और the पांचवां largest  satellite in the Solar System .
It is the largest natural satellite of a planet in the Solar System relative to the size of  इसके प्राथमिक , having 27 % the व्यास और 60 % the घनत्व of धरती , resulting in इसके द्रव्यमान  .
The Moon is the  दूसरी densest उपग्रह बाद io , a उपग्रह  of Jupiter .
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth , always showing the same face with its near side  चिह्नित by अंधेरा volcanic मरिया कि भरण between the उज्जवल प्राचीन crustal हाइलैंड्स और the prominent प्रभाव craters .
It is the brightest object in the sky after the  सूर्य , हालांकि इसके सतह is दरअसल बहुत अंधेरा , साथ a reflectance  similar to that of coal .
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases  have , चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स , बना the चंद्रमा an महत्वपूर्ण सांस्कृतिक influence on भाषा , पंचांग , आर्ट और mythology  .
The  चंद्रमा 's गुरुत्वाकर्षक influence produces the समंदर tides  and the minute lengthening of the day .
The Moon 's current orbital distance , about thirty times the diameter of the Earth , causes it to appear almost the same  आकार in the आसमान as the सूर्य , allowing it to कवर the सूर्य nearly precisely in कुल सौर eclipses  .
This matching of  apparent विज़ुअल आकार is a  coincidence .
the चंद्रमा 's रैखिक अलहदा इससे the धरती is फिलहाल increasing at a  rate of 3.82±0.07cm per year , but this rate is not constant .
The Moon is thought to have  formed nearly 4.5 अरब सालो पहले , नहीं long बाद the धरती  .
Although there have been  अनेक hypotheses लिये इसके उत्पत्ति in the पास्ट , the वर्तमान सबसे widely स्वीकृत स्पष्टीकरण is कि the चंद्रमा formed इससे the  debris left over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body .
The Moon is the only  celestial देह अन्य than धरती on जिससे इंसानो have नियत  foot .
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA Apollo  कार्यक्रम हासिल the तभी मानवयुक्त मिशन to तिथि , शुरूआत साथ the पहला मानवयुक्त चंद्र orbiting मिशन by अपोलो 8 in 1968 , और छह मानवयुक्त चंद्र अवतरण between 1969 और 1972 , साथ the  first being Apollo 11 .
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar rocks , which have been used to develop a geological  समझना of the चंद्रमा 's origins , the गठन of इसके आतंरिक ढांचा , और इसके subsequent इतिहास  .
After the Apollo 17 mission  in 1972 , the चंद्रमा रै महरूम visited तभी by unmanned spacecraft , notably by  the final Soviet Lunokhod rover .
Since 2004 ,  जापानी , चीन , इण्डिया , the संयुक्त राज्य , और the यूरोपीय  Space Agency have each sent lunar orbiters .
ये spacecraft have contributed to confirming the डिस्कवरी of चंद्र जल  ice in permanently shadowed craters at the poles and bound into the lunar regolith .
Future manned missions to the Moon have been planned , including  सरकारी as खूब as privately वित्तपोषित प्रयत्न  .
The  चंद्रमा remains , अंतर्गत the बाहरी स्पेस सन्धि , फ़्री to सब राष्ट्र to explore  for peaceful purposes .
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ; February 6 , 1911 – June 5 , 2004 ) was the  40th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1981–1989 ) .
Prior  to कि , he थी the 33rd राज्यपाल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया ( 1967–1975  ) , and a radio , film and television actor .
Born in Tampico ,  इलिनोइस , और उठाया in डिक्सन , reagan थी शिक्षित at यूरेका कॉलेज ,  earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology .
After graduating , Reagan moved first to Iowa to work as a radio  प्रसारणकर्ता और तब , in 1937 , to लॉस एंजिल्स जहाँ he began a करियर as an कर्ता ,  first in films and later television .
Some of his most notable films  शामिल knute rockne , सब अमरीकी ( 1940 ) , किंग्स पंक्ति ( 1942 ) , और bedtime लिये bonzo ( 1951 )  .
Reagan served as  अध्यक्ष of the स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड और बाद as a प्रवक्ता लिये सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; उसके प्रारंभ in राजनीती  occurred during his work for GE .
Originally a member of the  लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी , उसके स्थितियाँ began shifting rightward in the 1950s , और he switched  to the Republican Party in 1962 .
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry Goldwater 's presidential candidacy in 1964 , he was  persuaded to तलाश the कैलिफ़ोर्निया governorship , जीतना दो सालो बाद और  again in 1970 .
He was defeated in his run for the  रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1968 और in 1976 , लकिन जीती दोनो the नामांकन और सामान्य चुनाव in 1980  , defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter .
as अध्यक्ष , reagan implemented sweeping  new political and economic initiatives .
His  supply-side आर्थिक नीतियों , उतावले `` reaganomics `` , advocated reducing कर दरों to spur आर्थिक विकास , controlling  the money supply to reduce inflation , deregulation of the economy , and reducing government spending .
In his first term he  बच an हत्या attempt , took a मुश्किल लकीर  against labor unions , announced a new War on Drugs , and ordered an invasion of Grenada .
He was  re-elected in a भूस्खलन in 1984 , proclaiming कि it थी `` morning  in America `` .
His second term was primarily  चिह्नित by विदेशी matters , ऐसे as the समाप्ति of the ठंडा युद्ध , the 1986 bombing of लीबिया , और  the revelation of the Iran-Contra affair .
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil  साम्राज्य `` , he समर्थित anti-communist आंदोलनों विश्वव्यापी और खर्च उसके पहला पद forgoing the रणनीति of détente  by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR .
Reagan negotiated with  सोवियत सामान्य सचिव मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव , culminating in the inf सन्धि और the घटी  of both countries ' nuclear arsenals .
reagan बाएँ दफ्तर in  1989 .
In 1994  , the पूर्व अध्यक्ष disclosed कि he था महरूम diagnosed साथ अल्जाइमर 's  disease earlier in the year ; he died ten years later at the age of 93 .
A conservative icon , he ranks highly in public opinion polls of  u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों और is credited लिये generating an वैचारिक पुनर्जागरण on the अमरीकी राजनैतिक सही .
पूरा नियत of scrolls , constituting  the entire Tanakh .
the tanakh ( , or ; भी tenakh , tenak , tanach  ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The Tanakh  is भी ज्ञात as the masoretic टेक्स्ट  or the Miqra .
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew  अक्षर of the masoretic टेक्स्ट 's तीन परंपरागत subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '' , भी ज्ञात as the पाँच किताबे of  Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ) , meaning `` that  जिससे is पढ़ा '' , is an वैकल्पिक यहूदी पद लिये the  Tanakh .
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an  accompanying मौखिक परंपरा passed on by  each generation , called the Oral Torah .
the कावासाकी निंजा zx-6r is a कावासाकी  600 cc class sport motorcycle .
It was introduced in 1995 , and has  महरूम constantly अद्यतनीकृत throughout the सालो in जवाब to नई उत्पाद इससे होंडा ,  Suzuki , and Yamaha .
The ZX  श्रेणी is कया थी ज्ञात as the निंजा लकीर of कावासाकी मोटरसाइकिल in the  1980s and still carries the name today .
Assassination attempts and plots on  राष्ट्रपतियों of the संयुक्त राज्य have महरूम numerous : अधिक than 20 कोशिशें to मार बैठे और पूर्व राष्ट्रपतियों  , as well as the Presidents-elect , are known .
Four sitting presidents have been killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th President ) , James A. Garfield ( the 20th  अध्यक्ष ) , विलियम mckinley ( the 25th अध्यक्ष ) और जॉन F. कैनेडी ( the 35th  President ) .
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : former  अध्यक्ष थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ( the 26th अध्यक्ष ) , और अध्यक्ष रोनाल्ड reagan  ( the 40th President ) .
Although the historian J.W . Clarke has suggested that  सबसे अमरीकी assassinations यहूद नीतियां प्रेरित क्रियाएँ ,  carried out by rational men , not all such attacks have been undertaken for political reasons .
Some  हमलावर था questionable दिमागी स्थिरता , और  a few were judged legally insane .
Since the Vice President of the United States has for more than a century been elected from the same  राजनैतिक पार्टी as the अध्यक्ष , the हत्या of the अध्यक्ष is असंभावित to परिणाम in प्रमुख  policy changes .
This may explain why  राजनैतिक समूह typically do नहीं मेक ऐसे हमले  .
Where the Red Fern Grows is a novel written by Wilson Rawls  in 1961 परिचय a लड़के जो खरीदता और रेल दो redbone coonhound शिकार कुत्तो  .
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga :  gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in वेस्ट दक्षिण सेंट्रल संयुक्त  States .
Oklahoma  is the 20th सबसे extensive और the 28th सबसे  populous of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and  humma , अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '' , और it is ज्ञात informally by इसके उपनाम  , The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma  territory और भारतीय territory on नवम्बर 16 , 1907 , ओक्लाहोमा  was the 46th state to enter the union .
Its  निवासियों हैं ज्ञात as oklahomans or , informally `` okies '' , और इसके पूंजी  and largest city is Oklahoma City .
A major producer of natural gas , oil , and agriculture ,  ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन , उर्जा , दूरसंचार , और जैवप्रौद्योगिकी  .
It has one of the fastest  growing economies in the स्वदेश , रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita आय विकास और सकल  domestic product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors , with  nearly दो तिहाई of oklahomans जीना भीतर उनके महानगर सांख्यिकीय  areas .
With small mountain ranges , prairie , mesas , and eastern forests , most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains  और the u.s . आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a प्रदेश विशेषकर prone to कठोर मौसम  .
In addition to having a prevalence of English , German ,  स्कॉटिश , आयरिश और देशी अमरीकी ancestry , अधिक than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं बोला in ओक्लाहोमा  , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American  सांस्कृतिक regions और historically परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव , a गंतव्य लिये दक्षिणी settlers , और a government-sanctioned  territory for Native Americans .
Redwall , by Brian  ज़ाक , is a श्रेणी of children 's काल्पनिक  novels .
It is the title of the first book of the series , published in 1986 , as well as the name of the Abbey  प्रदर्शित in the किताब और the नाम of an एनिमेटेड tv श्रेणी आधारित on तीन of the novels  ( Redwall , Mattimeo , and Martin the Warrior ) , which first aired in 1999 .
The  किताबे हैं primarily aimed at पुरानी  children , but have fans of all ages .
वहीँ have महरूम twenty-two novels और दो  picture books published .
The twenty-second , and final  , अनोखा , the दुष्ट क्रू , थी मरणोपरांत released  on May 3 , 2011 .
प्राकृतिक गैस is प्रायः measured by आवाज़ in the संयुक्त राज्य  and is stated in cubic feet .
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas  needed to भरण a आवाज़ of एक घन पैर अंतर्गत नियत शर्तें of दबाव और temperature.to माप larger  amounts of natural gas , a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet , and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet .
To provide greater accuracy in  comparing fuels , उर्जा सामग्री is measured in शर्तें of `` अंग्रेजों थर्मल इकाई  ( BTU 's ) . ''
A BTU is the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water (  लगभग a pint ) , एक उपाधि फ़ारेनहाइट at or बंद to इसके पाइंट of अधिकतम  density .
One  अंग्रेजों therm ( प्रतीक thm ) is a non- si ईकाई of ऊष्मा उर्जा बराबर  to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ) .
It is approximately the energy  समतुल्य of burning 100 घन फीट ( प्रायः  referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas .
Since ( Natural Gas )  मीटर माप आवाज़ और नहीं उर्जा सामग्री , a therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रयुक्त by ( प्राकृतिक ) गैस कंपनियाँ  to convert the volume of gas used to its heat equivalent , and thus calculate the actual energy use .
The therm  फ़ैक्टर is प्रायः in the इकाई therms/ccf  .
It will  vary साथ the मिक्सर of hydrocarbons  in the natural gas .
प्राकृतिक गैस साथ a उच्चतर than औसत विशेषज्ञता of इथेन ,  propane or butane will have a higher therm factor .
Impurities , such as carbon dioxide or  नाइट्रोजन , निम्नतर the therm फ़ैक्टर  .
The volume  of the गैस is गणना as if measured at मानक  temperature and pressure ( STP ) .
The heat content of natural gas is solely dependent on the  संयोजन of the गैस , और is स्वतंत्र of तापमान और दबाव  .
One therm is  बराबर to परिचय 105.5 megajoules , 25,200 kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours  .
One  therm can भी be provided by परिचय of  natural gas .
The  therm sometimes रै महरूम उलझन साथ the thermie  ( see below ) .
The  names of दोनो इकाई आइये इससे  the Greek word for heat .
A thermie ( th ) is a metric unit of heat  उर्जा , भाग of the meter-tonne-second प्रणाली sometimes प्रयुक्त by यूरोपीय  engineers .
The thermie is equal to the amount  of उर्जा जरूरी to उठाएँ the तापमान of 1 टन of जल by 1 °c .
the thermie is समतुल्य to 1,000 kilocalories , 4.1868 megajoules  or 3968.3 BTU .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war  लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी  slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The  युद्ध था इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन  of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers  किया नहीं intervene .
After four years of bloody combat  कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों  to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , republicans , led by अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त  States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on  कूच 4 , 1861 , सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the  Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic  अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत  secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural  पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate  civil war .
Eight remaining slave  राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये  secession .
Confederate forces seized  numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the  Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a  सुलह , और दोनो पहलू prepared लिये युद्ध .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King  कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना  the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April  12 , 1861 , जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon  Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ;  नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy , bringing उनके कुल  to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and  स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था  .
The  पूर्वी थिएटर थी inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union  राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam , dissuading  British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति  slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of  उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at  the Mississippi River .
in 1863 , रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर  ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western  सफलताओं led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना  in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman  drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र , destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the  way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland  अभियान towards रिचमंड , the confederate पूंजी .
The defending Confederate  फौज विफल , अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट  at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The  अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest सच्चा  industrial wars .
railroads , the टेलीग्राफ , steamships , और mass-produced  weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines ,  shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार  War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the  मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined  number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all  उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged  18–40 .
विलियम ब्रूस जेनर ( born अक्तूबर 28 , 1949 ) is a पूर्व u.S. track और फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी , प्रेरक स्पीकर  , socialite , television personality and businessman .
He won the gold medal for  decathlon in the मॉन्ट्रियल 1976 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक .
following उसके ओलम्पिक जीत और the सम्बन्धित मान्यता , he शादीशुदा क्रिस  Kardashian , and his professional career evolved into being a television celebrity .
By 1981 , he had starred in  अनेक made-for-tv फिल्मों और थी erik एस्ट्राडा 's बदलना on the शीर्ष  rated TV series CHiPs .
He has six children :  बर्ट , केसी , ब्रैंडन , ब्रोडी , केंडल  and Kylie .
Since his 1991  विवाह to क्रिस जेनर , he is the stepfather to कोर्टनी , किम  , Khloe and Rob Kardashian .
चूंकि 2007 , he रै appeared साथ  his blended family on Keeping Up with the Kardashians .
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a  gram-negative , rod-shaped bacterium कि is commonly  found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ) .
Most E. coli  strains हैं हानिरहित , लकिन कुछ serotypes can कारण गंभीर खाना विषाक्तता in इंसानो ,  and are occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food contamination .
The harmless strains are part of the  सामान्य फ्लोरा of the आंत , और can लाभ उनके होस्ट by producing विटामिन k2 , और by preventing the  establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine .
E. coli and related bacteria  constitute परिचय 0.1 % of आंत फ्लोरा , और fecal–oral हस्तांतरण is the प्रमुख रूट through जिससे रोगजनक strains of the  bacterium cause disease .
Cells are able to survive  बाहर the देह लिये a सीमित राशि of समय , जिससे makes उन्हें आदर्श indicator जीवों to परीक्षण पर्यावरणीय  samples for fecal contamination .
There is ,  however , a growing देह of शोध कि रै examined environmentally persistent E. कोलाई जिससे can जीवित लिये  extended periods outside of the host .
The bacterium can also be grown easily and  inexpensively in a प्रयोगशाला सेटिंग , और रै महरूम intensively investigated लिये  over 60 years .
E. coli is the  सबसे widely पढ़ाई prokaryotic मॉडल सजीव , और an महत्वपूर्ण प्रजाति in the फ़ील्ड of जैवप्रौद्योगिकी और सूक्ष्मजैविकी  , where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA .
Area code 217 is the North American  टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड लिये much of पश्चिमी और सेंट्रल इलिनोइस  .
The 217 area  शामिल इलिनोइस ' पूंजी , springfield , प्लस champaign , urbana  , Decatur , Danville , Quincy , and Rantoul .
217 was one of the  असली क्षेत्रफल कोड , जिससे यहूद निर्मित  in 1947 .
The only significant change  in 217 's सीमाएँ थी in 1957 , जब इसके उत्तरी portion थी संयुक्त साथ  part of area code 815 to form area code 309 .
Image of  the largest अंटार्कटिक ओज़ोन छेद कभी अंकित  ( September 2006 ) , over the Southern pole
परतों of the माहौल ( नहीं  to scale )
Ozone depletion describes two distinct but related phenomena observed since the late  1970s : a स्थिर मनाही of परिचय 4 % प्रति दशक in the कुल आवाज़ of ओज़ोन in धरती 's stratosphere ( the ओज़ोन परत ) , और a much larger springtime घटी in stratospheric ओज़ोन  over Earth 's polar regions .
the latter घटना is referred  to as the ozone hole .
In addition to these  well-known stratospheric phenomena , वहीँ हैं भी springtime ध्रुवीय tropospheric  ozone depletion events .
The details of polar ozone hole  गठन differ इससे कि of mid-latitude thinning , लकिन the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण प्रक्रम in दोनो is catalytic विनाश  of ozone by atomic halogens .
The main source of  ये हैलोजन अणु in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants (  CFCs , freons , halons ) .
These  यौगिकों हैं transported into the stratosphere  after being emitted at the surface .
Both types of ozone depletion were observed to increase as  emissions of halo-carbons increased .
CFCs and other contributory  substances हैं referred to as ozone-depleting  substances ( ODS ) .
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's atmosphere , observed and  प्रक्षिप्त decreases in ओज़ोन have उत्पन्न विश्वव्यापी चिंता अग्रणी to अपनाना of the मॉन्ट्रियल प्रोटोकॉल कि bans the उत्पादन  of CFCs , halons , and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane .
It is suspected  कि a किस्में of biological consequences ऐसे as increases in स्किन कर्कट , cataracts , क्षति to पौधे , और कटौती of  plankton populations in the ocean 's photic zone may result from the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion .
The Preamble to the United  राज्य संविधान is a ब्रैड परिचयात्मक बयान of the  Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles .
It states in general terms , and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of , the Founding Fathers '  इरादों regarding the संविधान 's अर्थ और कया वे hoped the संविधान होता achieve as it pertains to सब of the लोगों of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
As the phrase , `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it  सेट into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों और समता among सब लोगों ; इस can be देखी सबसे broadly in the divide between republicanism और सोशल  democracy .
czechoslovakian शॉट putter plihan at the 1957 ईस्ट जर्मनी अंदर  Athletics Championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a track and field event involving  `` फेंकना '' / '' putting '' ( फेंकना in a pushing गति ) a भारी गोलाकार ऑब्जेक्ट  —the shot—as far as possible .
The shot put  प्रतियोगिता लिये मेन रै महरूम a भाग of the आधुनिक ओलंपिक चूंकि उनके  revival in 1896 , women 's competition began in 1948 .
Map of  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( un ) सदस्य राज्य , साथ उनके territories ( सहित निर्भर territories ) पहचाना  by the UN in blue
There are  संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( un ) सदस्य राज्य , और प्रत्येक of  them is a member of the United Nations General Assembly .
The  मापदण्ड लिये प्रवेश of नई सदस्यों हैं नियत आउट in the संयुक्त राष्ट्र  Charter , Chapter II , Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council requires  affirmative मत इससे at तनिक नौ of the परिषद 's पंद्रह  members , with none of the five permanent members voting against .
The  सुरक्षा परिषद 's अनुशंसा जरूर तब be subsequently स्वीकृत  in the General Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote .
In principle , only sovereign states can  become un सदस्यों , और फिलहाल सब un सदस्यों हैं sovereign राज्य ( हालांकि  a few members were not sovereign when they joined the UN ) .
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the  सामान्य सभा , a क्रमांक of राज्य कि may be माना sovereign राज्य according to the montevideo सम्मेलन  criteria are not members because the UN does not consider them to possess sovereignty , mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members .
In addition to the member states , the UN also invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy See and Palestine ) , intergovernmental organizations , and other  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन और entities जिनकी statehood or प्रभुता हैं नहीं precisely पारिभाषित , to become observers at the सामान्य सभा , allowing उन्हें to participate और बोलो , लकिन नहीं  vote , in General Assembly meetings .
The Eiffel Tower ( , ) is an iron  जाली मीनार स्तिथ on the champ de मंगल in पेरिस , नामित बाद the इंजीनियर gustave  Eiffel , whose company designed and built the tower .
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World  's मेला , it रै become दोनो a वैश्विक सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक of फ़्रांस और एक of the सबसे recognizable structures in the संसार  .
The  मीनार is the tallest ढांचा in पेरिस और the most-visited सशुल्क स्मारक in the  world ; 7.1 million people ascended it in 2011 .
The third level  वेधशाला 's अपर मंच is at the उच्चतम accessible to पब्लिक in the यूरोपीय संघ और the उच्चतम in यूरोपीय  as long as the platform of the Ostankino Tower , at , remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000 .
The tower  प्राप्त इसके 250 millionth  visitor in 2010 .
The tower stands tall , about  the वही ऊँचाई as an 81-storey  building .
During its construction , the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington  स्मारक to assume the शीर्षक of the tallest man-made ढांचा in the संसार , a शीर्षक it आयोजित लिये  41 years , until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930 .
Because of the  जोड , in 1957 , of the एंटीना atop the एफिल मीनार , it is अभी taller than the  Chrysler Building .
Not including  ब्रॉडकास्ट एन्टेना , it is the second-tallest ढांचा in फ़्रांस , बाद the millau viaduct  .
the मीनार रै तीन स्तर लिये विज़िटर  .
Tickets can be purchased to ascend , by stairs or lift (  लिफ्ट ) , to the पहला और दूसरी स्तर  .
The walk from ground level to the first level is over 300 steps ,  as is the चलना इससे the पहला to the दूसरी स्तर  .
The third and highest level is accessible only by  lift—stairs do मौजूद लकिन हैं प्रायः बंद  to the public .
the पहला और दूसरी स्तर have  restaurants .
The tower has  become the सबसे prominent प्रतीक of दोनो पेरिस और फ़्रांस , प्रायः in the establishing शॉट of films नियत  in the city .
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken  '' जेनिंग्स iii ( born may 23 , 1974 ) is an अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ प्रतियोगी  and author .
Jennings is noted  लिये पकड़कर the रिकार्ड लिये the longest जीतना streak on  the U.S. syndicated game show Jeopardy !
and as  होने the all-time अग्रणी  money winner on American game shows .
In 2004 , Jennings won  74 jeopardy  !
games before  he थी पराजित by चैलेंजर नैंसी zerg  on his 75th appearance .
His total  आय on jeopardy !
are $  3,172,700 , consisting of $ 2,520,700 over उसके 74 विन्स , a $ 2,000 second-place  prize in his 75th appearance , a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions , as  खूब as हाफ of a $ 300,000 पुरस्कार in the  IBM Challenge .
During  उसके पहला चलाएं  of Jeopardy !
appearances , Jennings earned the record for  the उच्चतम अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ winnings  .
His total was surpassed by Brad  rutter , जो पराजित जेनिंग्स in the फाइनल of the jeopardy  !
Ultimate Tournament of  champions ( पहला aired on may 25 , 2005 ) , adding  $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings .
Jennings  regained the रिकार्ड बाद appearing on अनेक अन्य खेल shows , culminating in an रूप  on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first aired  on अक्तूबर 10 , 2008 ) , हालांकि rutter retains  the Jeopardy !
रिकार्ड  .
After his success on Jeopardy ! , Jennings wrote about his experience and  छान अमरीकी ट्रिविया इतिहास और संस्कृति in उसके किताब brainiac : adventures in the जिज्ञासु , प्रतिस्पर्धी  , Compulsive World of Trivia Buffs , published in 2006 .
The Canadian Football League or CFL ( ' [  lcf ] in फ्रेंच ) is a पेशेवर खेल लीग स्तिथ  in Canada .
The CFL is the highest level of competition in Canadian football ,  a रूप of gridiron फ़ुटबॉल closely सम्बन्धित to अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल  .
Its eight current teams  , जिससे हैं स्तिथ in आठ पृथक शहरों , हैं विभाजित into दो विभाजन of चार टीमों प्रत्येक — the ईस्ट  Division and the West Division .
The league 's 19-week regular  ऋतु रनों इससे लेट जून to जल्दी नवम्बर ; प्रत्येक टोली plays 18 खेल साथ एक अलविदा सप्ताह  .
Following the regular season , the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the  चौथी प्लेस टोली in एक प्रभाग रै a बेहतर रिकार्ड than the तीसरा प्लेस टोली in the अन्य प्रभाग , जब the टोली साथ the बेहतर रिकार्ड makes the playoffs और `` crosses over '' to the अन्य प्रभाग 's playoff ) compete in the लीग 's three-week  divisional playoffs , which culminate in the late-November Grey Cup championship , the country 's largest annual sports and television event .
The CFL was officially founded on January 19 , 1958 , making it the second oldest gridiron  फ़ुटबॉल लीग in उत्तर अमेरिका स्टिल in आपरेशन , हालांकि सब इसके टीमों long predate the आधुनिक गठन  of the league .
it is the उच्चतम स्तर of खेल in कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल , the सबसे लोकप्रिय फ़ुटबॉल लीग in  Canada , and the second-most popular major sports league in Canada , after the National Hockey League .
Although ice hockey is Canada 's most popular sport , the CFL has  increased the लोकप्रियता of कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल in क्यूबेक और पश्चिमी  Canada .
Canadian football is also played at amateur levels ( i.e . youth , high school ,  cjfl , qjfl , cis और वरिष्ठ लीग ऐसे as the अलबर्टा फ़ुटबॉल लीग )  .
The 2010s will be a  significant दशक लिये the cfl in शर्तें of विकास , as टीमों have संवर  , expanded stadiums , or plan to build entirely new stadiums .
The Montreal Alouettes  संपन्नता इस पहला , adding 5,000 सीटे to पर्सिवल molson  Memorial Stadium in time for the 2010 CFL season .
The Edmonton Eskimos and Calgary  स्तेमपेड्रस भी संवर उनके संबंधित स्टेडियम और सुविधाएं  for the 2010 season .
in 2011 , the bc शेर निभाई अंतर्गत a नई , retractable छत in  BC Place after spending one and a half seasons at Empire Field .
Then the  विन्निपेग ब्लू बमवर्षक होगा खेल in an entirely नई स्टेडियम at the विश्वविद्यालयों of मनिटोबा  , scheduled to open in time for the 2013 season .
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats , Saskatchewan Roughriders and  the नई ओटावा मताधिकार हैं भी looking at नई or extensively-renovated  stadiums in the following years .
There are also  उम्मीदें of expanding the लीग to अटलांटिक कनाडा ( ideally basing a टोली in either the अधिक आबादी halifax , or the अधिक centralized  Moncton ) , as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton .
According to sports historian Douglas Brei , the Canadian  फ़ुटबॉल लीग holds the भेद of होने the तभी पेशेवर खेल लीग in उत्तर अमेरिका ,  major or minor league , in which each existing franchise has won at least one league title while in their current location .
Each antibody binds to a  विशिष्ट प्रतिजन ; an बातचीत समान to a ताला और  key .
An  एंटीबॉडी ( ab ) , भी ज्ञात as an immunoglobulin ( ig ) , is a विशाल y-shaped प्रोटीन उत्पादित by b-cells  that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses .
The antibody  recognizes a अद्वितीय भाग of the विदेशी  target , called an antigen .
Each tip of the `` Y '' of an antibody contains a  paratope ( a ढांचा analogous to a ताला ) कि is विशिष्ट लिये एक particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a कुंजी ) on an प्रतिजन ,  allowing these two structures to bind together with precision .
Using this binding mechanism ,  an एंटीबॉडी can टैग a microbe or an संक्रमित कोशिका लिये आक्रमण by अन्य भाग of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली , or can neutralize इसके निशाना सीधे ( लिये उदाहरण  , by blocking a part of a microbe that is essential for its invasion and survival ) .
The production of antibodies is the  प्रमुख फलन of the humoral प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली .
Antibodies are  स्रावित by a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त  cell called a plasma cell .
Antibodies can occur in two physical forms , a soluble form that is secreted from the cell  , और a झिल्ली -bound रूप कि is संलग्न to the सतह of a b कोशिका और is referred to as the b कोशिका  receptor ( BCR ) .
The BCR is only found on  the सतह of b कोशिकाएं और facilitates the सक्रियण of ये कोशिकाएं और उनके subsequent differentiation into either एंटीबॉडी कारखानों पुकारा प्लाज्मा कोशिकाएं , or मेमोरी b कोशिकाएं कि होगा जीवित in the  body and remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure .
In most cases , interaction of the B cell with a T helper cell is necessary to  उपज पूरा सक्रियण of the b कोशिका और , इसलिए , एंटीबॉडी पीढी following  antigen binding .
Soluble antibodies are released into the  रक्त और ऊतक fluids , as खूब as अनेक secretions to continue to सर्वेक्षण लिये आक्रमणकारी microorganisms  .
antibodies हैं glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the शर्तें  antibody and immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably .
Antibodies are typically made of  मौलिक संरचनात्मक units—each साथ दो विशाल भारी जंजीरों  and two small light chains .
There are several different  प्रकार of एंटीबॉडी भारी जंजीरों , और अनेक अलग kinds of antibodies , जिससे हैं grouped into अलग isotypes  based on which heavy chain they possess .
Five different  एंटीबॉडी isotypes हैं ज्ञात in स्तनधारियों , जिससे perform अलग भूमिकाएँ , और सहायता सीधा the उचित प्रतिरक्षा जवाब लिये प्रत्येक  different type of foreign object they encounter .
Though the general structure of all antibodies is very similar , a small region at the tip of the  प्रोटीन is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय , allowing लाखो of antibodies साथ थोड़ा अलग टिप structures , or प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग  sites , to exist .
This  प्रदेश is ज्ञात as the hypervariable  region .
Each of these variants can  bind to a अलग प्रतिजन  .
This  विशाल विविधता of antibodies allows the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली  to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens .
The large and diverse population of antibodies is generated  by यादृच्छिक combinations of a नियत of जीन खण्ड कि encode अलग प्रतिजन बाइंडिंग साइट ( or paratopes ) , followed by यादृच्छिक mutations in इस क्षेत्रफल of the  antibody gene , which create further diversity .
Antibody genes also  re-organize in a प्रक्रम पुकारा क्लास switching कि परिवर्तन the आधार of the भारी कड़ी to another ,  creating a different isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific variable region .
This allows a single antibody  to be प्रयुक्त by अनेक अलग भाग of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली  .
The symbol used by  the zodiac कातिल to चिह्न उसके पत्राचार
The Zodiac Killer was a serial killer who operated  in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the लेट 1960s और  early 1970s .
the कातिल 's पहचान remains  unknown .
The Zodiac  murdered पीड़ितों in benicia , vallejo , झील berryessa , और सैन फ्रांसिस्को between  December 1968 and October 1969 .
Four men and three women between  the आयु of 16 और 29 यहूद targeted .
The  कातिल originated the नाम `` zodiac '' in a श्रेणी of taunting अक्षर  sent to the local Bay Area press .
These  अक्षर शामिल चार cryptograms ( or ciphers  ) .
Of the four cryptograms  भेजा , तभी एक रै महरूम definitively  solved .
Suspects have  महरूम नामित by विधि प्रवर्तन और amateur जांचकर्ताओं ,  but no conclusive evidence has surfaced .
In April 2004 , the San Francisco Police Department marked the case `` inactive '' , yet re-opened  the मामला at कुछ पाइंट prior  to March 2007 .
The case also remains open in the  नगर of vallejo , as खूब as in नापा काउंटी और solano काउंटी  .
The California  विभाग of इंसाफ रै कायम an खोलें मामला संचिका on the  Zodiac murders since 1969 .
Jennings is a small  नगर in और the मोहल्ला सीट of जेफरसन डेविस मोहल्ला , louisiana  , United States , near Lake Charles .
The population  थी 10,383 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी , a छोटी मनाही  from the 2000 tabulation .
The  नगर is 68 प्रतिशत  white .
Jennings is the principal city of the Jennings  micropolitan सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , जिससे शामिल सब of जेफरसन डेविस मोहल्ला  .
It  is भी भाग of the larger झील charles-jennings संयुक्त  Statistical Area .
Nanotechnology ( sometimes shortened to ``  nanotech '' ) is the हेरफेर of पदार्थ on an परमाणु और आणविक  scale .
The  earliest , फैली वर्णन of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological लक्ष्य of precisely manipulating  atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products , also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology .
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently  स्थापित by the नेशनल nanotechnology पहल , जिससे defines nanotechnology as the हेरफेर of पदार्थ साथ at तनिक एक आयाम sized इससे  1 to 100 nanometers .
This  परिभाषा reflects the फैक्ट कि क्वांटम mechanical प्रभाव हैं महत्वपूर्ण at इस quantum-realm स्केल , और so the परिभाषा shifted इससे a particular technological लक्ष्य to a शोध  category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold .
It is therefore common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies '' as well as `` nanoscale technologies ''  to refer to the व्यापक दायरा of शोध और अनुप्रयोग जिनकी आम trait is आकार .
Because of the variety of  संभावित अनुप्रयोग ( सहित औद्योगिक और सैन्य ) , सरकारें have invested  billions of dollars in nanotechnology research .
through इसके नेशनल nanotechnology पहल  , the USA has invested 3.7 billion dollars .
The European Union has invested 1.2 billion  और जापानी 750 लाख डॉलर .
nanotechnology as पारिभाषित by आकार is naturally बहुत व्यापक , सहित फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान as विविध as सतह विज्ञान ,  organic chemistry , molecular biology , semiconductor physics , microfabrication , etc .
The associated research and applications are equally diverse , ranging from extensions of conventional  यंत्र भौतिकी to completely नई approaches आधारित upon आणविक self-assembly , इससे विकासशील नई सामग्री साथ आयाम on the nanoscale to सीधा कंट्रोल of  matter on the atomic scale .
वैज्ञानिकों फिलहाल बहस the भविष्य implications  of nanotechnology .
Nanotechnology may  be समर्थ to बनाएँ अनेक नई सामग्री और डिवाइस साथ a विशाल दायरा of अनुप्रयोग , ऐसे as in आयुर्विज्ञान , इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स ,  biomaterials and energy production .
On the other hand , nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as  कोई नई प्रौद्योगिकी , सहित चिंताएं परिचय the toxicity और पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of nanomaterials , और उनके संभावित प्रभाव on वैश्विक अर्थशास्त्र , as खूब as अटकलें  about various doomsday scenarios .
These concerns  have led to a बहस among वकालत समूह और सरकारें on whether  special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted .
Map of  the पूर्वी  Bloc
The term Eastern Bloc or  कम्युनिस्ट bloc refers to the पूर्व कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of सेंट्रल और पूर्वी यूरोपीय , generally the सोवियत  Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact .
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc were also used to denote groupings of states  लकीर साथ the सोवियत संघ , हालांकि ये शर्तें might शामिल राज्य बाहर सेंट्रल और पूर्वी यूरोपीय .
The New Jersey  gubernatorial चुनाव of 2009 took प्लेस on नवम्बर 3 ,  2009 .
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running for a second term and  थी होने challenged by रिपब्लिकन क्रिस क्रिस्टी , स्वतंत्र क्रिस्टोफर daggett और नौ अन्य , in जोड  to several write-in candidates .
Christie won the election ,  साथ परिचय 48.5 प्रतिशत of the vote , to 44.9 प्रतिशत लिये  Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett .
Christie won the largest margin for a first  पद रिपब्लिकन चूंकि 1969  .
Christie assumed  दफ्तर on जनवरी 19 , 2010  .
This was  the पहला चुनाव to भरण the newly निर्मित  office of Lieutenant Governor .
The candidates for governor and lieutenant governor were  joined साथ as a सिंगल चुनाव , so कि मतदाता किया नहीं  have the opportunity to split the ticket .
Kim Guadagno , Christie 's running mate , became New  जर्सी 's पहला लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल following उसके उद्घाटन .
Health care in  the संयुक्त राज्य is provided by अनेक पृथक  organizations .
Health care  सुविधाएं हैं largely स्वामित्व और संचालित  by private sector businesses .
Health insurance for public sector  कर्मचारी is primarily provided by the सरकारी  .
60-65 % of healthcare  प्रावधान और बिता आता इससे कार्यक्रम ऐसे as medicare , medicaid , tricare , the children 's स्वास्थ्य  Insurance Program , and the Veterans Health Administration .
Most of the population under 65 is  insured by उनके or a परिवार सदस्य 's नियोक्ता , कुछ ख़रीदे स्वास्थ्य बीमे on उनके अपना , और the  remainder are uninsured .
Of 17 high-income countries studied by the National Institutes of Health in 2013 , the United  राज्य थी at or निकट the नीचे in शिशु मृत्यु , दिल और फेफड़ों बीमारी , sexually transmitted infections , adolescent pregnancies , चोटों , homicides , और दरों  of disability .
Together , such issues place  the u.S. at the नीचे of the सूची  for life expectancy .
On average , a U.S. male can be expected to live almost four fewer years  than those in the top-ranked देश  .
According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the United States spent more on health care per capita ( $  7,146 ) , और अधिक on स्वास्थ्य परवाह as प्रतिशत of इसके जीडीपी ( 15.2 % ) , than कोई अन्य  nation in 2008 .
The  राष्ट्रमंडल निधि क्रमित the संयुक्त राज्य पिछला in the विशेषता of स्वास्थ्य परवाह among समान  countries , and notes U.S. care costs the most .
The U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो reported कि 49.9 लाख निवासियों , 16.3 % of the जनसांख्यिकी , यहूद uninsured  in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million residents , 16.1 % of the population , in 2009 ) .
A 2004 Institute of  आयुर्विज्ञान ( iom ) रपट कहा : `` the संयुक्त राज्य is among the few industrialized राष्ट्र in the संसार कि करता नहीं गारंटी अभिगम to  health care for its population . ''
A  2004 oecd रपट कहा : `` साथ the एक्सेप्शन of मैक्सिको , तुर्कों , और the संयुक्त राज्य , सब oecd देशों था हासिल सार्वभौमिक  or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990 . ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health  बीमे कल्याणकारी roughly 48,000 अनावश्यक मौतों प्रत्येक साल in the  United States .
In 2007 , 62.1 % of filers for  bankruptcies claimed ऊँची चिकित्सा खर्च  .
A 2013 study found  कि परिचय 25 % of सब वरिष्ठ नागरिकों घोषित दिवालियापन due to चिकित्सा खर्च , और 43 % हैं  forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence .
On March 23 , 2010 , the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act  ( ppaca ) became विधि , providing लिये प्रमुख परिवर्तन in स्वास्थ्य  insurance .
In  physiology , देह जल is  the water content of the human body .
a significant भिन्न  of the human body is water .
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of  चिकित्सा physiology राज्य कि `` the कुल राशि of जल in a man of औसत  weight ( 70 kilograms ) is approximately 40 litres , averaging 57 percent of his total body weight .
In a  नवजात शिशु , इस may be as ऊँची as 75 प्रतिशत of the देह वज़न , लकिन it progressively decreases  from birth to old age , most of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life .
Also ,  मोटापा decreases the प्रतिशत of जल in the देह , sometimes to as कम  as 45 percent '' .
These figures  हैं सांख्यिकीय averages , so हैं illustrative , और जैसे सब biostatistics , होगा vary  with things like type of population , age and number of people sampled , and methodology .
So there  is नहीं , और can नहीं be , a फिगर कि is exactly the वही लिये सब  people , for this or any other physiological measure .
For example , Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology for Nurses gives a  फिगर of 60 % लिये the proportion of body-weight attributable to जल , जिससे approximates  Guyton 's 57 % .
In diseased states where body water  is प्रभावित , the कम्पार्टमेंट or compartments कि have  changed can give clues to the nature of the problem .
Body water is regulated by hormones ,  सहित anti-diuretic हार्मोन ( अध ) , aldosterone और अलिंदी  natriuretic peptide .
Per Netter  's एटलस of इंसान physiology , देह  water is broken down into the following compartments:
intracellular द्रव ( 2/3  of body water ) .
Per  guyton , in a देह containing 40 लीटर of द्रव , परिचय 25 लीटर is intracellular , जिससे  amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ) , close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb .
जैक्सन 's ग्रन्थ राज्य 70 % of देह द्रव  is intracellular .
extracellular द्रव ( 1/3 of  body water ) .
Per Guyton  's उदाहरण , लिये a 40 लीटर देह , परिचय 15 लीटर is extracellular , जिससे  amounts to 37.5 % Again , this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here .
प्लाज्मा ( 1/5 of extracellular  fluid ) .
Per Guyton 's illustration , of the 15 litres of  extracellular द्रव , प्लाज्मा आवाज़ averages 3  litres .
This  amounts to 20 % , the वही as प्रति  Netter 's Atlas .
अंतरालीय द्रव ( 4/5 of  extracellular fluid )
Transcellular  द्रव ( a.k.a . `` तीसरा स्पेस , '' सामान्यतः  ignored in calculations )
contained अंदर अंगों , ऐसे as the जठरांत्र , प्रमस्तिष्कमेरु  , peritoneal , and ocular fluids .
self-esteem is a पद प्रयुक्त in मनोविज्ञान to प्रतिबिंबित a व्यक्ति 's overall emotional  evaluation of his or her own worth .
It is a  निर्णय of oneself as खूब as an रवैया toward the  self .
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for example , `` I am competent , '' `` I  am worthy '' ) और भाव ऐसे as triumph , despair , अभिमान और शर्म  .
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is what  we सोचो परिचय the स्वः ; self-esteem , is the धनात्मक or ऋणात्मक evaluations  of the self , as in how we feel about it . ''
self-esteem is भी ज्ञात as the evaluative आयाम of the स्वः कि शामिल जज्बात  of worthiness , prides and discouragement .
One 's self-esteem is  भी closely संबद्ध साथ self-consciousness  .
self-esteem is a disposition कि a व्यक्ति रै जिससे represents उनके निर्णयों  of their own worthiness .
In the mid-1960s , Morris  rosenberg और social-learning पैरोकार पारिभाषित self-esteem as a निजी लायक or worthiness  .
nathaniel branden in 1969 पारिभाषित self-esteem as `` the अनुभव of होने  competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and being worthy of happiness . ''
According  to branden , self-esteem is the योग of self-confidence ( a अहसास of निजी क्षमता  ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ) .
It exists as a  consequence of the अव्यक्त निर्णय कि प्रत्येक व्यक्ति रै of उनके क्षमता to फेस जीवन 's चुनौतियां , to समझे और solve समस्याएं , और  their right to achieve happiness , and be given respect .
As a  सोशल मनोवैज्ञानिक construct , self-esteem is आकर्षक क्युकी शोधकर्ताओं have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of  relevant outcomes , such as academic achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al . 1998 ) .
In addition , self-esteem has also been treated  as an महत्वपूर्ण निष्कर्ष due to इसके बंद संबंध साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक well-being  ( Marsh 1989 ) .
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example , `` I believe I am a good  लेखक और i महसूस प्रसन्न परिचय कि '' ) or a वैश्विक extent ( लिये उदाहरण , `` i मानना i am a ख़राब व्यक्ति , और महसूस ख़राब परिचय  myself in general '' ) .
Psychologists usually  लिहाज़ self-esteem as an enduring व्यक्तित्व characteristic ( `` trait  '' self-esteem ) , though normal , short-term variations ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist .
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem include : self-worth ,  self-regard , self-respect , और self-integrity  .
A Masonic Lodge , often termed a Private  आवास or constituent आवास , is the मौलिक organisational ईकाई  of Freemasonry .
Every new Lodge must be warranted or chartered by  a ग्रैंड आवास , लकिन is विषय to इसके दिशा तभी in enforcing the प्रकाशित संविधान  of the jurisdiction .
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand Lodge in London ( today called the United Grand Lodge of  इंग्लैण्ड ) have the अद्वितीय विशेषाधिकार to operate as समय immemorial i.e . बगैर ऐसे वारंट ; तभी एक अन्य आवास operates बगैर a वारंट - इस is the ग्रैंड stewards ' आवास in लंदन , हालांकि it is नहीं भी हकदार to the  `` time immemorial '' title .
A  freemason is generally हकदार to विज़िट कोई आवास , in कोई क्षेत्राधिकार ( i.e  . under any Grand Lodge ) in amity with his own .
In some  jurisdictions इस विशेषाधिकार is प्रतिबंधित to निपुण masons ( कि is , freemasons  who have attained the Order 's third degree ) .
He is  पहला प्रायः जरूरी to जाँच , और certify , the नियमितता of the संबंध  of the Lodge - and be able to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership .
Freemasons gather together as a Lodge  to कार्य the तीन मौलिक डिग्री of डाला प्रशिक्षु , fellowcraft और निपुण  Mason .
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass manufacturing company headquartered  in st हेलेन्स , संयुक्त किंगडम और a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of the japan-based एनएसजी  Group .
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in  2006 it थी an स्वतंत्र कम्पनी सूचीबद्ध on the लंदन भण्डार  Exchange and for a time was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index .
A quotation is the repetition of one  अभिव्यक्ति as भाग of another एक , विशेषकर जब the कोटेड अभिव्यक्ति is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to इसके  original source , and it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks .
A quotation can also refer to the  दोहराया उपयोग of इकाई of कोई अन्य रूप of अभिव्यक्ति , विशेषकर भाग of कलाकारी works : तत्व of a पेंटिंग , दृश्यों इससे a फिल्म or  sections from a musical composition .
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common year  starting on सोमवार ( कड़ी होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग ) of the gregorian पंचांग और a आम साल starting  on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae , cultivated for its fruit  , जिससे is प्रायः सूखी और प्रयुक्त as  a spice and seasoning .
The fruit , known as a peppercorn when dried , is approximately  in व्यास , अंधेरा रेड जब fully वयस्क , और , जैसे सब drupes  , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be described simply  as pepper , or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( पकाया और सूखी unripe फल ) , ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe फल ) और श्वेत  pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to  दक्षिण इण्डिया , और is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in तीव्र  regions .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper , producing 34 %  of the संसार 's पाइपर nigrum क्रॉप  as of 2008 .
Dried  मैदान pepper रै महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता  for both its flavour and as a medicine .
Black pepper  is the संसार 's सबसे traded  spice .
It is  एक of the सबसे आम मसाले added to यूरोपीय  cuisine and its descendants .
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical  piperine , नहीं to be उलझन साथ the capsaicin कि देता  fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in  the आधुनिक संसार , प्रायः युग्म  with salt .
Fire hydrant in  charlottesville , वर्जिनिया ,  USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a  जॉनी पंप in नई यॉर्क नगर ) , is an क्रियाशील आग सुरक्षा माप , और a सोर्स of जल provided in सबसे शहरी , suburban और ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों साथ नगरपालिका जल सेवा to enable अग्निशमन to tap into  the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire .
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an insurance discount since  अग्निशमन चाहिए be समर्थ to अधिक rapidly बुझा a आग on the insured प्रॉपर्टी  .
The concept of  आग plugs तिथियाँ to at तनिक the 17th सदी  .
This was a time when firefighters responding to a call would dig down  to the लकड़ी जल मेन्स और hastily bore a छेद to सुरक्षित जल  to fight fires .
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well , and be transported  इससे the खूब to the आग by बाल्टी brigades or , बाद  , by hand-pumped fire engines .
The holes were then plugged with stoppers , normally redwood ,  जिससे over समय आए to be ज्ञात as आग  plugs .
The location of the plug would  प्रायः be अंकित or चिह्नित so कि it could be reused  in future fires .
This is the source of the  colloquial पद आग प्लग स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये आग hydrants  today .
After the Great Fire of  लंदन in 1666 , the नगर संस्थापित जल मेन्स साथ छेद drilled at intervals , equipped साथ  risers , allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs from street level .
The  आविष्कार of a post- or pillar-type आग hydrant is generally credited to फ्रेडरिक graff  Sr. , Chief Engineer of the Philadelphia Water Works around the year 1801 .
It had a  संयोजन hose/faucet आउटलेट और थी of `` गीला बैरल '' डिज़ाइन  with the valve in the top .
It  is कहा कि graff आयोजित the पहला पेटेंट लिये a आग hydrant , लकिन इस can नहीं be सत्यापित क्युकी the पेटेंट दफ्तर in वॉशिंगटन d.C. caught on आग in 1836 destroying  many patent records from that period in the process .
the अध्यक्ष of the गणतंत्र of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी is the सिर of राज्य  and head of government under South Africa 's Constitution .
From 1961 to 1994 , the head of state was  पुकारा the राज्य अध्यक्ष  .
The President is elected by members  of the नेशनल सभा , the निम्नतर हाउस of पार्लियामेंट , और is प्रायः the नेता of the largest पार्टी , जिससे रै महरूम the अफ़्रीकी नेशनल कॉंग्रेस  since the first non-racial elections were held on 27 April 1994 .
The  भूमिका थी originally संस्थापित to be पृथक इससे the अभी defunct भूमिका of प्रधान मंत्री , लकिन the दो भूमिकाएँ यहूद  merged in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office .
The 1993 and later  constitutions हद the अध्यक्ष 's समय in दफ्तर  to two five-year terms .
The first  अध्यक्ष to be निर्वाचित अंतर्गत the नई संविधान थी नेल्सन मंडेला ,  and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma .
Under the  अंतरिम संविधान ( मान्य इससे 1994 to 1996 ) , वहीँ थी a सरकारी of नेशनल एकता , in जिससे an mp इससे  the largest opposition party was entitled to a position as Deputy President .
Along with Thabo Mbeki , the last State President , F.W . De Klerk also served as Deputy  अध्यक्ष , in उसके क्षमता as the नेता of the नेशनल पार्टी जिससे थी the second-largest  party in the new Parliament .
लकिन de klerk बाद resigned और गई into विपक्ष  with his party .
A  voluntary गठबन्धन सरकारी continues to मौजूद अंतर्गत the नई संविधान ( अपनाया in 1996 ) , हालांकि वहीँ have महरूम  no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president .
खास शिक्षा or खास needs शिक्षा is the शिक्षा of विद्यार्थी साथ  special needs in a way that addresses the students ' individual differences and needs .
Ideally , this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored  व्यवस्था of शिक्षण प्रक्रियाओं , adapted उपकरण और सामग्री , accessible जमावट , और अन्य interventions designed to सहायता learners साथ खास needs achieve a उच्चतर स्तर of निजी self-sufficiency और कामयाबी in स्कूल और जातियाँ than  would be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education .
Common special  needs शामिल चुनौतियां साथ सीखना , संचार चुनौतियां , emotional और behavioral विकार  , physical disabilities , and developmental disorders .
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from  अतिरिक्त शैक्षणिक सेवाएं ऐसे as अलग approaches to शिक्षण , उपयोग of प्रौद्योगिकी , a specifically adapted शिक्षण  area , or resource room .
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from specialized teaching techniques or different educational programs , but the  पद `` खास शिक्षा '' is generally प्रयुक्त to specifically indicate निर्देश of विद्यार्थी जिनकी खास needs reduce उनके क्षमता to सीख independently or in an ordinary कक्षा , और gifted शिक्षा is संभाला separately  .
In most developed countries , educators are modifying teaching methods  और environments so कि the अधिकतम क्रमांक of विद्यार्थी हैं परोसा in सामान्य शिक्षा environments  .
Special  शिक्षा in विकसित देशों is प्रायः regarded कम as a `` प्लेस '' और अधिक as `` a दायरा of सेवाएं  , available in every school . ''
संयोजन can reduce सोशल stigmas और improve  academic achievement for many students .
The  विपरीत of खास शिक्षा  is general education .
सामान्य शिक्षा is the मानक curriculum प्रस्तुत साथ मानक शिक्षण  methods and without additional supports .
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12  , 1930 , as schwartz györgy ) is a hungarian-american कारोबार महारथी , निवेशकों , और लोकसेवक  .
He  is the अध्यक्ष of सोरोस निधि प्रबन्धन  .
Soros supports  progressive-liberal कल्याणकारी  .
He is known as ``  the man जो broke the बैंको of इंग्लैण्ड `` क्युकी of उसके in निवेश  profits during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis .
Between 1979 and 2011 , Soros gave away over $ 8  अरब to इंसान अधिकारों , पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य , और शिक्षा कल्याणकारी  .
He played a  significant भूमिका in the शांतिपूर्ण परिवर्तन इससे साम्यवादी to पूंजीवाद in हंगेरियाई ( 1984–89 ) और provided एक of यूरोपीय 's  largest higher education endowments to Central European University in Budapest .
Soros is also  the अध्यक्ष of the खोलें समाज  Institute .
An actor portraying Alexander  ग्राहम घंटी बोलना into an जल्दी मॉडल टेलीफोन  .
The invention of the telephone is the  culmination of कार्य किया by अनेक individuals , the इतिहास of जिससे involves a संग्रहण of दावा और counterclaims  .
The development  of the आधुनिक विद्युत टेलीफोन शामिल an सरणी of lawsuits संस्थापित upon the पेटेंट दावा of अनेक individuals  and numerous companies .
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898 , from conception of the idea of an electric voice-transmission device , to failed attempts to use `` make-and-break ''  वर्तमान , to कामयाब प्रयोग साथ इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक telephones by सिकंदर ग्राहम घंटी और थामस वाटसन  , and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century .
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA , M.F.A . ) is a graduate degree typically  requiring 2–3 सालो of postgraduate पढ़ाई परे the स्नातक 's उपाधि ( bfa ) , हालांकि the पद of पढ़ाई होगा vary  by country or by university .
The MFA is a creative degree usually  awarded as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in विज़ुअल कला , रचनात्मक लिखने , filmmaking , नृत्य  , or theatre and other performing arts .
Coursework is primarily of  an लागू or performing प्रकृति साथ the कार्यक्रम प्रायः  culminating in a major work or performance .
Master of Fine Arts  कार्यक्रम have generally जरूरी a स्नातक 's उपाधि prior to प्रवेश , लकिन अनेक do नहीं आवश्यकता कि the undergraduate प्रमुख be the वही as the mfa फ़ील्ड of  study .
The  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण admissions आवश्यकता रै प्रायः महरूम a नमूना पोर्टफोलियो  or a performance audition .
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of Arts in that the MFA , while an  अकादमिक कार्यक्रम , centers around अभ्यास in the particular फ़ील्ड , whereas कार्यक्रम अग्रणी to the ma प्रायः बीच on the scholarly  , academic , or critical study of the field .
Additionally , in the United States , an MFA is recognized as a terminal  उपाधि लिये practitioners of विज़ुअल आर्ट , डिज़ाइन , नृत्य , थिएटर , film/video , नई मीडिया , और रचनात्मक लिखने - अर्थ कि it is माना to be the उच्चतम उपाधि  in its field , and is used as a minimum qualification to be able to apply to become a Full-Time Professor teaching at the University level in these disciplines .
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts , notably in the  मामला of म्यूज़िक प्रदर्शन , जहाँ the mfa is नहीं देखी as a टर्मिनल उपाधि in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of the अधिक मानकीकृत  DMA degree .
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between creative production and continued  अकादमिक शोध , कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों have स्थापित practice-based ph.d कार्यक्रम in फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रचनात्मक लिखने , विज़ुअल कला , नई मीडिया , डिज़ाइन  and theater .
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing , and to a lesser extent  in डिज़ाइन और नई मीडिया , the influx of graduates इससे practice-based phd कार्यक्रम रै नहीं appreciably बदला the मानक लिये the mfa as the टर्मिनल  degree in most Arts disciplines yet .
This is an ongoing contentious topic , and is  the बारंबार विषय of अकादमिक panels , विशेषकर at the  annual College Art Association conference .
The  caa 2008 दिशानिर्देश regarding the mfa strongly re-affirms कि the phd  is not required as a terminal degree in the visual arts .
The atomic  bombings of the शहरों of हिरोशिमा और नागासाकी in जापानी यहूद conducted by the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान the  final stages of World War II in 1945 .
The two events are the only use  of नाभिकीय हथियार in युद्ध to  date .
following a firebombing अभियान कि नष्ट अनेक जापानी शहरों , the  Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan .
The war in Europe  ended जब नाजी जर्मनी हस्ताक्षरित इसके यंत्र of  surrender on 8 May , but the Pacific War continued .
Together with the  संयुक्त किंगडम और the गणतंत्र of चीन , the संयुक्त राज्य पुकारा लिये a आत्मसमर्पण of जापानी in the पॉट्सडैम घोषणा on 26 जुलाई 1945  , threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter destruction '' .
The Japanese government ignored this ultimatum ,  और the संयुक्त राज्य तैनात दो नाभिकीय हथियार विकसित by the मैनहटन प्रोजेक्ट  .
अमरीकी airmen dropped छोटी लड़के on the नगर of हिरोशिमा on 6 अगस्त  1945 , followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August .
Within the first two to four months of  the bombings , the अधि प्रभाव मारे 90,000–166,000 लोगों in हिरोशिमा और 60,000–80,000 in नागासाकी , साथ roughly  half of the deaths in each city occurring on the first day .
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that , of  the लोगों जो died on the दिन of the विस्फोट , 60 % died इससे फ्लैश or ज्वाला burns , 30 % इससे गिरना मलबा  and 10 % from other causes .
During the following months , large  संख्याएँ died इससे the प्रभाव of burns , विकिरण बीमारी , और अन्य  injuries , compounded by illness .
In a US estimate of the total immediate and short term cause of  मौत , 15–20 % died इससे विकिरण बीमारी , 20–30 % इससे burns , और 50–60  % from other injuries , compounded by illness .
In  दोनो शहरों , सबसे of the मुर्दे यहूद नागरिकों , हालांकि हिरोशिमा  had a sizeable garrison .
On 15 August  , छह दिनों बाद the bombing of नागासाकी , जापानी घोषित इसके आत्मसमर्पण to the allies ,  signing the Instrument of Surrender on 2 September , officially ending World War II .
The bombings led , in  भाग , to post-war जापानी 's adopting तीन  Non-Nuclear Principles , forbidding the nation from nuclear armament .
The role of  the bombings in जापानी 's आत्मसमर्पण और उनके  ethical justification are still debated .
Mohandas  करमचंद गांधी ( ; 2 अक्तूबर 1869 – 30 जनवरी 1948 ) , commonly ज्ञात as महात्मा  Gandhi , was the preeminent leader of Indian nationalism in British-ruled India .
Employing non-violent civil  disobedience , गांधी led इण्डिया to स्वतंत्रता और प्रेरित आंदोलनों लिये non-violence  , civil rights and freedom across the world .
The son of  a वरिष्ठ सरकारी आधिकारिक , गांधी थी born और उठाया in a हिन्दू bania  community in coastal Gujarat , and trained in law in London .
Gandhi became famous by fighting  लिये the सिविल अधिकारों of मुस्लिम और हिन्दू इंडियंस  in South Africa , using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed .
Returning to India in 1915 , he  नियत परिचय organising peasants to विरोध excessive  land-taxes .
A  lifelong प्रतिद्वन्दी of `` सांप्रदायिकता `` ( i.e . basing राजनीती on धर्म  ) he reached out widely to all religious groups .
he became a नेता of मुसलमान protesting  the declining status of the Caliphate .
Assuming leadership  of the भारतीय नेशनल कॉंग्रेस in 1921 , गांधी led देशभर अभियान लिये easing गरीबी , expanding महिलाओं 's अधिकारों , भवन धार्मिक  and ethnic amity , ending untouchability , increasing economic self-reliance , and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination .
Gandhi led Indians in  protesting the नेशनल नमक कर साथ the dandi नमक कूच in 1930 , और बाद in demanding  the British to immediately Quit India in 1942 , during World War II .
he थी imprisoned लिये कि और लिये  numerous other political offenses over the years .
गांधी sought to अभ्यास non-violence और सच्चाई in सब  situations , and advocated that others do the same .
He saw the villages as the core of the true India and  प्रचारित self-sufficiency ; he किया नहीं support the industrialization  programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru .
He lived modestly in a self-sufficient  आवासीय जातियाँ और पहना the परंपरागत भारतीय धोती और चादर , woven साथ धागे he था हाथ  spun on a charkha .
His chief political enemy in Britain was Winston  चर्चिल , जो ridiculed उसे as a `` half-naked फकीर . ''
He was a dedicated  शाकाहारी , और undertook long fasts as अर्थात् of दोनो self-purification और राजनैतिक  mobilization .
In his last year , unhappy at the partition of India , Gandhi worked to stop the carnage  between मुसलमान , हिन्दुओं और सिखों कि raged in the किनारा क्षेत्रफल between इण्डिया और पाकिस्तानी  .
He was assassinated on  30 जनवरी 1948 by nathuram गोडसे जो विचार गांधी थी too सहानुभूतिपूर्ण  to India 's Muslims .
30 January is  observed as शहीदो ' दिन in  India .
The honorific Mahatma (  `` ग्रेट आत्मा '' ) थी लागू to उसे by 1914  .
In India he was  भी पुकारा bapu ( `` पिता  '' ) .
He is known in  इण्डिया as the पिता of the स्वदेश ; उसके जन्मदिवस , 2 अक्तूबर , is commemorated वहीँ as गांधी jayanti , a नेशनल अवकाश  , and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence .
Gandhi  's दर्शनशास्त्र थी नहीं सैद्धांतिक लकिन एक of व्यावहारिकतावाद  , that is , practicing his principles in the moment .
Asked to give a  संदेश to the लोगों , he होता respond , `` my  life is my message . ''
Joan Crawford (  कूच 23 , ca . 1904 – may 10 , 1977 ) , born lucille fay lesueur  , was an American actress in film , television and theatre .
starting as a नर्तकी in traveling नाट्य कंपनियाँ पहले debuting on ब्रॉडवे , क्रॉफर्ड थी  signed to a motion picture contract by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925 .
initially कुंठित by the आकार और विशेषता of उसके भाग , क्रॉफर्ड began a अभियान of self-publicity  and became nationally known as a flapper by the end of the 1920s .
In the 1930s , Crawford 's fame  rivaled , और बाद outlasted , mgm सहयोगियों norma शियर्र  and Greta Garbo .
Crawford often played hardworking young women who find  रोमांस और वित्तीय कामयाबी  .
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were well received by  अवसाद -era ऑडियंस और यहूद लोकप्रिय साथ महिलाओं  .
Crawford became one of Hollywood 's most prominent movie stars and one of the highest paid  महिलाओं in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन उसके films began खोने धन और by the समाप्त of the 1930s वो थी labeled `` बक्सा दफ्तर  poison '' .
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen , Crawford staged a comeback  by अभिनीत in मिल्ड्रेड पियर्स ( 1945 ) , लिये जिससे वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार  for Best Actress .
In 1955 , she became involved  साथ the pepsi-cola कम्पनी through उसके विवाह to  company Chairman Alfred Steele .
After his death  in 1959 , क्रॉफर्ड थी निर्वाचित to भरण उसके रिक्ति on the फलक of निर्देशकों लकिन थी  forcibly retired in 1973 .
She continued acting in film and television regularly through  the 1960s , जब उसके प्रदर्शन became कम ; बाद the रिलीज of the अंग्रेजों हॉरर फिल्मी  Trog in 1970 , Crawford retired from the screen .
Following a  पब्लिक रूप in 1974 , बाद जिससे unflattering छायाचित्र यहूद प्रकाशित , क्रॉफर्ड withdrew इससे पब्लिक  life and became increasingly reclusive until her death in 1977 .
क्रॉफर्ड शादीशुदा  four times .
Her  पहला तीन विवाह ended in तलाक ; the पिछला ended साथ  the death of husband Alfred Steele .
She  अपनाया पाँच children , एक of जिसको थी  reclaimed by his birth mother .
Crawford 's relationships  साथ उसके दो पुरानी children , क्रिस्टीना और क्रिस्टोफर  , were acrimonious .
Crawford disinherited the two and , after Crawford 's death ,  क्रिस्टीना लिखा a `` tell-all '' संस्मरण , mommie dearest , in जिससे वो कथित a lifelong पैटर्न of शारीरिक और emotional गाली perpetrated  by Crawford .
She was  voted the दसवाँ महानतम मादा स्टार in the इतिहास of अमरीकी  cinema by the American Film Institute .
1910 Buick  tonneau बगैर tonneau  cover
1903 Ford  मॉडल a rear-door  Tonneau
1903 lanchester rear-door  Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or )  describes a मुश्किल or नरम कवर प्रयुक्त to protect unoccupied यात्री सीटे in a convertible  or roadster , or the cargo bed in a pickup truck .
Hard tonneau covers open by a hinging or  फोल्डिंग यांत्रिकी जबकि नरम कवर  open by rolling up .
The  tonneau कवर is प्रयुक्त to छिपाते  cargo .
When the cover is pulled out , it keeps items out of the  सूर्य और provides अतिरिक्त सुरक्षा by keeping निजी वस्तुएं आउट of sight , as खूब as shielding the ड्राइवर  from view .
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that enables its users to send and  पढ़ा text-based संदेश of up to 140 वर्ण , ज्ञात  as `` tweets '' .
Twitter was  निर्मित in कूच 2006 by जोकर dorsey और by जुलाई , the सोशल  networking site was launched .
The service rapidly gained  विश्वव्यापी लोकप्रियता , साथ over 500 लाख पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता as of 2012 , generating over 340 लाख  tweets daily and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day .
Since its launch ,  ट्विटर रै become एक of the टेन सबसे visited वेबसाइटों on the अंतरजाल  , and has been described as `` the SMS of the Internet . ''
Unregistered users can read tweets , while registered users can  पोस्ट tweets through the जालस्थल इंटरफ़ेस , sms , or a दायरा of ऐप्स  for mobile devices .
Twitter Inc. is based in San  फ्रांसिस्को , साथ अतिरिक्त सर्वर और कार्यालयों  in New York City , Boston , and San Antonio .
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film ,  co-produced और निर्देशित by टॉड phillips और लिखा by  Jon Lucas and Scott Moore .
It is the first film of The Hangover franchise  .the फिल्मी सितारों ब्राडली कूपर , ed helms , zach galifianakis , हीथर ग्राहम  , Justin Bartha , and Jeffrey Tambor .
the hangover tells the स्टोरी of फिल wenneck , stu दाम और एलन गार्नर , जो सफर to लास वेगास  for a bachelor party to celebrate their friend Doug Billings ' impending marriage .
However , Phil , Stu and Alan have no memory of the previous  रात्रि 's कार्यक्रम और जरूर ढूँढें डग पहले the  wedding can take place .
Lucas and Moore wrote the script  बाद कार्यपालिका निर्माता क्रिस bender 's dost disappeared और था a विशाल विधेयक बाद होने भेजा  to a strip club .
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the studio for $ 2 million , Philips  और जेरेमी garelick rewrote the स्क्रिप्ट to शामिल a बाघ as खूब as a subplot involving a baby और a पुलिस क्रूजर , और भी सहित  boxer Mike Tyson .
Filming took place in Nevada for  15 दिनों , और दौरान फिल्मांकन , the तीन प्रमुख अभिनेताओं ( कूपर , helms और galifianakis ) formed a दोस्ती  .
The Hangover was  released on जून 5 , 2009 , बनने a नाजुक  and commercial success .
It became the tenth-highest-grossing film  of 2009 , साथ a विश्वव्यापी सकल of over us  $ 467 million .
Critics  praised the फिल्मी 's comedic दृष्टिकोण लकिन criticized  it for its vulgarity .
The film won the  सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति चित्र – musical or कॉमेडी  , and received multiple other accolades .
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the  संसार , as खूब as the दूसरी highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी कभी in the संयुक्त राज्य , surpassing a रिकार्ड previously आयोजित  by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012 .
Out of all R-rated films , it is the third  highest-grossing कभी in the u.S. , पीछे तभी the जुनून of the मसीह और the मेट्रिक्स  Reloaded .
A sequel , The Hangover Part II , was released in 2011 , and a third  और फाइनल फिल्मी , the hangover  Part III , is set for release in 2013 .
Events  involving meiosis , प्रर्दशित chromosomal  crossover
meiosis ( ) is a खास प्रकार of कोशिका प्रभाग जरुरी  for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes .
The  कोशिकाएं उत्पादित by meiosis हैं  gametes or spores .
In many organisms  , सहित सब पशु और जमीन पौधे ( लकिन नहीं कुछ अन्य समूह ऐसे as fungi ) , गैमीट  are called sperm and egg cells .
Whilst the process of  meiosis bears a क्रमांक of similarities साथ the 'life-cycle ' कोशिका  division process of mitosis , it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a  अलग जेनेटिक संयोजन in प्रत्येक gamete , compared साथ the co-existence of प्रत्येक of the दो पृथक pairs of प्रत्येक chromosome ( एक प्राप्त इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) in  each cell which results from mitosis .
the outcome of meiosis is  potentially चार ( genetically अद्वितीय ) अगुणित कोशिकाएं , compared साथ the दो ( genetically एकसमान ) द्विगुणित  cells produced from mitosis .
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of  प्रत्येक chromosome —one इससे the सजीव 's माँ और एक इससे इसके पिता  .
The cell divides twice , potentially producing  up to चार अगुणित कोशिकाएं containing एक नक़ल of प्रत्येक chromosome  .
( `` Potentially '' because in some  मामले , ऐसे as the गठन of oocytes in स्तनधारियों , तभी एक of  the possible four haploid cells survives . )
In animals the haploid cell  resulting इससे meiosis is a पुरूष or मादा gamete  .
Each of the resulting chromosomes in the gamete  कोशिकाएं is a अद्वितीय मिश्रण of मातृ और पैतृक डीएनए , resulting in औलाद कि हैं genetically पृथक इससे  either parent .
This gives rise to genetic diversity in  sexually reproducing populations  .
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon  जिससे प्राकृतिक चयन can अधिनियम , लकिन , as वर्णित नीचे in खण्ड 6 , उत्पत्ति और फलन of meiosis , the जेनेटिक विविधता may be largely a by-product of the समजात recombination कि is primarily employed  for its DNA repair function during meiosis .
It is also noteworthy that during meiosis , specific genes are more highly transcribed , and these are called the  meiome , the पद प्रयुक्त in कार्यात्मक जीनोमिक्स लिये the meiotic transcriptome  .
Meiosis is a key feature for all sexually  reproducing eukaryotes in जिससे समजात chromosome pairing , अन्तर्ग्रथन और recombination  occur .
In addition to strong meiotic stage-specific expression of mRNA ( the meiome ) , however ,  वहीँ हैं भी pervasive translational नियंत्रण ( e.g . चयनात्मक उपयोग  of preformed mRNA ) , regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis .
Thus  , दोनो the meiome और translational नियंत्रण determine the व्यापक restructuring of meiotic कोशिकाएं needed to carry  out meiosis .
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are  duplicated by a गोलाकार of डीएनए replication , बनाना इससे the मातृ और पैतृक संस्करण of प्रत्येक chromosome ( homologs ) दो सटीक नक़ल  , sister chromatids , attached at the centromere region .
In  the शुरूआत of meiosis the मातृ  and paternal homologs pair to each other .
Then they typically exchange parts by homologous recombination leading to  crossovers of डीएनए between the मातृ और पैतृक संस्करण of the chromosome  .
Spindle fibers bind to the  centromeres of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of homologs और arrange the pairs at the spindle  equator .
Then the  मछली खींचो the recombined homologs to विपरीत  poles of the cell .
As the chromosomes move away from the center the cell  divides into दो बेटी कोशिकाएं , प्रत्येक containing a अगुणित क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों रचित of दो chromatids  .
After the recombined maternal  और पैतृक homologs have अलग into the दो बेटी कोशिकाएं ,  a second round of cell division occurs .
There meiosis ends as the two sister chromatids making up each homolog are  अलग और मूव into एक of the चार resulting gamete  cells .
Upon fertilization , for example when a  शुक्राणु enters an अंडा कोशिका , दो gamete कोशिकाएं उत्पादित by  meiosis fuse .
The  gamete इससे the माँ और the gamete इससे the पिता प्रत्येक योगदान  one half of the set of chromosomes that make up the new offspring 's genome .
Meiosis uses many of the same mechanisms as mitosis , a type of cell division  प्रयुक्त by eukaryotes जैसे पौधे और पशु to विभाजित एक कोशिका into दो एकसमान  daughter cells .
In all plants and in many protists  meiosis परिणाम in the गठन of बीजाणुओं : अगुणित कोशिकाएं कि can divide vegetatively बगैर  undergoing fertilization .
Boxing ( pugilism , prize fighting , the sweet science or in Greek  pygmachia ) is a martial आर्ट और कॉम्बैट खेल in जिससे दो लोगों engage in a प्रतियोगिता of शक्ति  , speed , reflexes , endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands .
Amateur boxing is an Olympic and Commonwealth  खेल और is a आम fixture in सबसे of the प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय खेल - it भी रै इसके  own World Championships .
Boxing is supervised by a referee  over a श्रेणी of one- to three-minute intervals  called rounds .
The result is  decided जब an प्रतिद्वन्दी is deemed incapable to continue by a रेफरी , is disqualified लिये तोड़कर a नियम , resigns  by throwing in a towel , or is pronounced the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest .
The birth hour of boxing as a sport may be its  स्वीकृति by the प्राचीन यूनानियों as an ओलम्पिक खेल as जल्दी as 688  BC .
Boxing evolved from 16th- and 18th-century prizefights , largely in  ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , to the forerunner of आधुनिक मुक्केबाज़ी in the mid-19th सदी , again initially in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  and later in the United States .
In  2004 , ईएसपीएन क्रमित मुक्केबाज़ी as the सबसे मुश्किल  sport in the world .
Agreement or concord  happens जब a शब्द परिवर्तन रूप depending on the अन्य  words to which it relates .
It is an instance of inflection , and  प्रायः involves बनाना the मान of कुछ व्याकरणिक श्रेणी  ( such as gender or person ) `` agree '' between different words or parts of the sentence .
For example , in Standard English ,  एक may कह i am or he is , लकिन नहीं `` i is ''  or `` he am '' .
This is because the  व्याकरण of the भाषा requires कि the क्रिया और इसके  subject agree in person .
The  pronouns i और he हैं पहला और तीसरा व्यक्ति  respectively , as are the verb forms am and is .
The verb form  जरूर be चयनित so कि it रै the वही  person as the subject .
The agreement based on overt  व्याकरणिक श्रेणी as ऊपर is औपचारिक अनुबंध , in कंट्रास्ट to notional अनुबंध , जिससे  is based on meaning .
For instance , the phrase The United States is treated as singular for  उद्देश्य of अनुबंध , भी हालांकि it is formally बहुवचन  .
This is  a सूची of स्थान नीचे औसत समुद्र स्तर कि हैं  on land .
Places in tunnels , mines , basements , dug holes ( also with open sky ) , under water ,  अंतर्गत बर्फ , or मौजूदा temporarily as a परिणाम of ebbing of समुद्र tide इत्यादि . हैं नहीं शामिल  .
All  आंकड़े हैं in मीटर नीचे समुद्र level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22 , 1948 in Yakima , Washington ) is a  best-selling अमरीकी लेखक of over 150 रोमांस novels और  contemporary women 's fiction .
over 140 लाख नक़ल of उसके किताबे हैं in छपाई throughout the संसार , और  four have become made-for-TV-movies .
Macomber was the inaugural winner of the fan-voted Quill Award for romance in 2005 and  रै महरूम awarded दोनो a रोमांस लेखक of अमेरिका रीता और a आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार by the रोमांस  Writers of America .
Catonsville is a  census-designated प्लेस ( cdp ) in बाल्टीमोर  County , Maryland , United States .
The population  थी 41,567 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
The  जातियाँ झूठ to the वेस्ट of बाल्टीमोर साथ the  city 's border .
Catonsville is the home  of the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड , बाल्टीमोर काउंटी ( umbc ) , a पब्लिक  research university with over 12,000 students .
A lawyer , according to Black 's  विधि शब्दकोष , is `` a व्यक्ति सीखे in the विधि ; as an attorney  , counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law . ''
Law is the system of  नियम of conduct स्थापित by the sovereign सरकारी of a समाज to सही  wrongs , maintain the stability of political and social authority , and deliver justice .
Working as a lawyer involves the practical application of  अमूर्त विधिक theories और ज्ञान to solve विशिष्ट individualized समस्याएं , or to अग्रिम the रूचि of those जो  retain ( i.e. , hire ) lawyers to perform legal services .
The role of the lawyer varies  significantly आरपार विधिक jurisdictions , और so it can be treated यहाँ in तभी the सबसे  general terms .
Vector  विपणन is the घरेलू बिक्री भुजा of cutco निगम , an olean  , New York based cutlery manufacturer .
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA  ) is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय विधि requiring covered नियोक्ता to provide कर्मचारी job-protected और unpaid  leave for qualified medical and family reasons .
Qualified medical and family reasons include : personal or  परिवार बीमारी , परिवार सैन्य छोड़ , गर्भावस्था , अपनाना , or the फोस्टर  care placement of a child .
The FMLA is administered  by the मजदूरी और घंटा प्रभाग of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग  of Labor .
The bill was a  प्रमुख भाग of अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन 's कार्यसूची in उसके  first term .
अध्यक्ष क्लिंटन हस्ताक्षरित the विधेयक into विधि on फ़रवरी 5 , 1993 ( ; 29 u.s.c . सेक . 2601 ; 29  CFR 825 ) and it took effect on August 5 , 1993 , six months later .
The FMLA was intended  `` to संतुलन the मांगे of the कार्यस्थल साथ the  needs of families . ''
the अधिनियम allows योग्य कर्मचारी to लो up to 12 कार्य सप्ताह of unpaid छोड़ दौरान कोई 12-month काल to attend to the गंभीर स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन  of the employee , parent , spouse or child , or for pregnancy or care of a newborn child , or for adoption or foster care of a child .
In order to be eligible for  fmla छोड़ , an कर्मचारी जरूर have महरूम at the कारोबार at तनिक 12 महीने , और worked at तनिक 1,250 घंटों over the पास्ट 12 महीने , और कार्य at a  location where the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles .
The FMLA  कवर दोनो public- और private-sector कर्मचारी , लकिन निश्चित श्रेणी of कर्मचारी हैं  excluded , including elected officials and their personal staff members .
The Vietnam War (  ) थी a ठंडा युद्ध -era सैन्य विरोध कि occurred in वियतनाम , लाओस , और कंबोडिया इससे 1 नवम्बर  1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975 .
This war followed the First Indochina War and  थी लड़ा between उत्तर वियतनाम , समर्थित by इसके कम्युनिस्ट allies , और the सरकारी of दक्षिण  Vietnam , supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries .
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front , or NLF ) , a lightly armed  दक्षिण वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट आम सामने निर्देशित by the उत्तर , largely लड़ा a छापामार युद्ध  against anti-communist forces in the region .
The Vietnam People 's Army (  उत्तर वियतनामी फौज ) सगाई in a अधिक conventional युद्ध , at टाइम्स  committing large units into battle .
u.S. और दक्षिण वियतनामी शक्तियां relied on एयर बड़प्पन और overwhelming firepower to conduct ढूंढें और नष्ट परिचालन  , involving ground forces , artillery , and airstrikes .
The U.S. government viewed involvement in the war  as a रास्ता to prevent a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा of दक्षिण वियतनाम as भाग of उनके  wider strategy of containment .
The North  वियतनामी सरकारी और viet cong यहूद लड़ to reunify  Vietnam under communist rule .
They viewed the conflict as a colonial  युद्ध , लड़ा initially विरूद्ध फ़्रांस , समर्थित by the u.S. , और बाद विरूद्ध दक्षिण  Vietnam , which it regarded as a U.S. puppet state .
American military advisors  arrived in कया थी तब फ्रेंच इंडोचायना शुरूआत  in 1950 .
U.S. involvement escalated in the early  1960s , साथ troop स्तर tripling in 1961 और tripling again  in 1962 .
U.S. combat units  यहूद तैनात शुरूआत in 1965  .
Operations spanned international  सीमायें , साथ लाओस और कंबोडिया heavily bombed  .
American  भागीदारी in the युद्ध peaked in 1968 , at the समय of  the Tet Offensive .
After this , U.S.  मैदान शक्तियां यहूद धीरे withdrawn as भाग of a नीति  known as Vietnamization .
Despite the Paris Peace Accords  , हस्ताक्षरित by सब पार्टियों in जनवरी 1973 , लड़ जारी  .
U.S. military  भागीदारी ended on 15 अगस्त 1973 as a परिणाम of the case–church amendment passed  by the U.S. Congress .
The capture of Saigon by the  वियतनाम लोगों 's फौज in अप्रैल 1975 चिह्नित the समाप्त of the युद्ध , और उत्तर और दक्षिण  Vietnam were reunified the following year .
The war exacted a huge human cost in  शर्तें of fatalities ( देखिए वियतनाम युद्ध हताहत )  .
estimates of the क्रमांक of वियतनामी सैनिको और नागरिकों मारे vary  from 800,000 to 3.1 million .
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians ,  20,000–200,000 laotians , और 58,220 u.S. सेवा  members also died in the conflict .
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska  photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन , may 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during  the climactic फटना at माउंट pinatubo , फिलीपीन  in 1991 .
A volcano is an opening , or  rupture , in a ग्रह 's सतह or क्रस्ट , जिससे allows hot मैग्मा , volcanic राख और गैसों to एस्केप  from the magma chamber below the surface .
ज्वालामुखी हैं generally मिला जहाँ tectonic  plates are diverging or converging .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge ,  रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत रिंग of आग रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by  convergent tectonic plates coming together .
By  कंट्रास्ट , ज्वालामुखी हैं प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic  plates slide past one another .
Volcanoes  can भी रूप जहाँ वहीँ is stretching और thinning of the धरती 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of प्लेटों , e.g. , in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी दरार , the  Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This type of volcanism falls under the  छतरियाँ of `` थाली परिकल्पना '' volcanism  .
Volcanism  दूर इससे थाली सीमाएँ रै भी महरूम समझाया as  mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for  उदाहरण हवाई , हैं postulated to उठता इससे upwelling diapirs साथ मैग्मा  from the core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km deep in the Earth .
Erupting  ज्वालामुखी can पोज़ अनेक जोखिमों , नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक  vicinity of the eruption .
Volcanic ash  can be a threat to वायुयान , in particular those  with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of  sulfuric एसिड अस्पष्ट the सूर्य और कूल the धरती 's निम्नतर माहौल or क्षोभमण्डल ; however , वे भी अवशोषित  heat radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically , so-called volcanic  सर्दियों have caused अनर्थकारी  famines .
A deep  pothole on नई यॉर्क नगर 's दूसरी  Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a  केतली और ज्ञात in भाग of the पश्चिमी संयुक्त राज्य as a chuckhole ) is a प्रकार of disruption in the सतह of a roadway जहाँ a  portion of the road material has broken away , leaving a hole .
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC , also known as hypernephroma ) is a kidney cancer that originates in  the अस्तर of the proximal convoluted tubule , the बहुत छोटी tubes in the गुर्दा कि हस्तांतरण gf ( glomerular filtrate ) इससे the glomerulus to the  descending limb of the nephron .
RCC  is the सबसे आम प्रकार of गुर्दा कर्कट in वयस्कों ,  responsible for approximately 80 % of cases .
It is also known  to be the सबसे lethal of सब the genitourinary  tumors .
Initial treatment is most  commonly a कट्टरपंथी or आंशिक nephrectomy और remains the mainstay  of curative treatment .
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma , the 5-year survival rate  is 60-70 % , लकिन इस is lowered considerably जहाँ metastases  have spread .
It is relatively  resistant to विकिरण चिकित्सा और कीमोथेरेपी ,  although some cases respond to immunotherapy .
Targeted cancer therapies such as sunitinib ,  temsirolimus , bevacizumab , interferon-alpha , और sorafenib have improved the आउटलुक लिये  RCC .
Estée Lauder Companies ,  inc. is a निर्माता और marketer of प्रतिष्ठा skincare , मेकअप , महक और बाल  care products .
the कम्पनी रै इसके मुख्यालय in  Midtown Manhattan , New York City .
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous  झिल्ली कि फ़ॉर्म the अस्तर of the abdominal गुहा or the coelom —it कवर सबसे of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes और कुछ invertebrates (  annelids , for instance ) .
It is composed of  a परत of mesothelium समर्थित by a पतला परत  of connective tissue .
The peritoneum  दोनो supports the abdominal अंगों और serves as a conduit लिये उनके  blood and lymph vessels and nerves .
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae ,  abdominal मांसपेशियां , diaphragm और श्रोणि मंजिल ) चाहिए नहीं be उलझन साथ the intraperitoneal स्पेस ( स्तिथ भीतर the abdominal गुहा , लकिन  wrapped in peritoneum ) .
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the stomach ) ,  the structures in the abdominal गुहा कि हैं स्तिथ पीछे the intraperitoneal स्पेस हैं पुकारा `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g . the गुर्दे ) , और those structures नीचे the intraperitoneal  space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the bladder ) .
Modern 2.5 ''  ssd प्रयुक्त in उपभोक्ता लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप  computers .
DDR  sdram आधारित  SSD .
अधिकतम और  .
पीसीआई संलग्न io  Accelerator SSD
PCI-E  , dram , और नन्द आधारित  SSD .
It uses an external power  सप्लाई to मेक the dram  non-volatile .
A  solid-state ड्राइव ( ssd ) ( भी ज्ञात as a solid-state डिस्क or इलेक्ट्रॉनिक डिस्क , हालांकि it contains no वास्तविक `` डिस्क ''  of any kind ) is a data storage device using integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently .
ssd प्रौद्योगिकी उपयोग इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अंतरफलक संगत साथ परंपरागत  block input/output ( I/O ) hard disk drives .
ssds have no चलती mechanical components , जिससे फर्क उन्हें इससे परंपरागत electromechanical चुम्बकीय डिस्क ऐसे as  hard disk drives ( HDDs ) or floppy disks , which contain spinning disks and movable read/write heads .
Compared with electromechanical disks , SSDs are  typically कम susceptible to शारीरिक शॉक , much quieter , have निम्नतर अभिगम  time , and less latency .
However , while the  दाम of ssds रै जारी to मनाही in 2012 , ssds हैं स्टिल परिचय 7 to 8 टाइम्स अधिक महंगी  per unit of storage than HDDs .
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces developed for  मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव , यूँ permitting सरल बदलना in आम अनुप्रयोग  .
, most SSDs use  nand-based फ्लैश मेमोरी , जिससे retains आंकड़ा बगैर  power .
For applications requiring fast access , but not  necessarily आंकड़ा हठ बाद शक्ति घाटा , ssds may be constructed इससे random-access मेमोरी (  RAM ) .
Such devices may employ  पृथक शक्ति स्त्रोत , ऐसे as बैटरी ,  to maintain data after power loss .
Hybrid drives or solid state hybrid drives ( SSHD )  combine the सुविधाएँ of ssds और hdds in the वही ईकाई , containing a विशाल मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव और an ssd संचय to improve प्रदर्शन  of frequently accessed data .
These devices may  प्रस्ताव near-ssd प्रदर्शन लिये अनेक  applications .
Salmon roe ( left ) and sturgeon  caviar ( सही ) परोसा साथ माँ of पर्ल caviar spoons to  avoid tainting the taste of the caviar .
Ossetra caviar , salmon  creme fraiche , आलू shallot croquette  , basil oil , egg whites and yolks
Caviar , according to  the खाना और कृषि संगठन , is a उत्पाद बना इससे salt-cured fish-eggs of the  Acipenseridae family .
The roe can  be `` भैस '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized , साथ pasteurization  reducing its culinary and economic value .
traditionally the पद caviar refers तभी to roe इससे जंगली  sturgeon in the Caspian and Black Seas ( Beluga , Ossetra and Sevruga caviars ) .
Depending on the country , caviar may also be used to describe the roe of other fish such  as सामन , steelhead , ट्राउट , lumpfish , whitefish , और अन्य प्रजाति  of sturgeon .
Caviar is considered a  लक्ज़री कोमलता और is खाया  as a garnish or a spread .
In 2012 ,  caviar बेची लिये $ 2,500 प्रति पाउंड ,  or $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo .
The SEC  संजाल is a टेलीविज़न अनुप्रयोग संजाल featuring सजीव प्रसारण of कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और बास्केट कार्यक्रम  from the Southeastern Conference .
It is owned and operated by ESPN  प्लस और is दिखाया in अधिक than 50 प्रतिशत of households  in the United States , mostly Southeastern United States markets .
The SEC  संजाल typically airs in the नून पूर्वी स्लॉट कि थी पूर्व घर to the  Raycom Sports SEC game of the week .
Games are shown locally on  ब्रॉडकास्ट स्टेशन , क्षेत्रीय खेल संजाल , as खूब as on ईएसपीएन gameplan , ईएसपीएन  Full Court , and ESPN3.com .
The SEC Network is also  उपलब्धियाँ in कनाडा via अटलांटा  's WPCH-TV .
The SEC Network uses the same on-screen  ग्राफिक्स फिलहाल प्रयुक्त by ईएसपीएन on एबीसी , a संस्करण of ईएसपीएन  's graphics package .
SEC Network  's फ़ुटबॉल प्रोग्रामिंग स्टिल उपयोग a शीर्षक सुरक्षित क्षेत्रफल क्युकी सबसे of इसके affiliates do नहीं letterbox उनके मानक परिभाषा फ़ीड्स , जबकि ईएसपीएन 's टेलीविज़न संजाल have अनुमत उनके  graphics to abandon the title safe , but letterbox for SD viewers .
Starting  साथ the सेक 2012 बास्केट ऋतु , सेक संजाल 's ग्राफिक्स have  been converted to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format .
This is also being used for the  2013 बास्केट ऋतु , लकिन था स्टिल adapted the पूर्व 4:3-safe ग्राफिक्स स्वरूप लिये the 2012 सेक  football season .
The 1990s , pronounced and also known as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as ``  the nineties '' or `` the '90s '' , थी a दशक कि began on जनवरी 1 , 1990 , और ended on दिसम्बर 31  , 1999 .
It was the 10th and last decade of the 20th  सदी और the 100th और पिछला दशक of the 2nd मिलेनियम  .
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold  युद्ध at the शुरूआत of the दशक और the विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण of the  Internet during the second half of the decade .
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of unprecedented  सलाम और समृद्धि , हालांकि अनेक भाग of the so-called तीसरा संसार faced विभिन्न समस्याएं सहित नरसंहार , एड्स और नई or continuing जातीय तनाव  and civil wars .
Culturally speaking the decade was characterized by  the वृद्धि of बहुसंस्कृतिवाद और वैकल्पिक  media .
आंदोलनों ऐसे as grunge , the रेव झाँकी और हिप हॉप स्प्रेड around the संसार to यंग लोगों दौरान the दशक , aided  by then-new technology such as cable television and the Internet .
A combination of factors , including the mass mobilization of capital markets through  neoliberalism , the शुरूआत of the फैली अप्रसार of नई मीडिया ऐसे as the अंतरजाल , और the विच्छेद of the सोवियत संघ led to a realignment और reconsolidation  of economic and political power across the world , and within countries .
Income  असमानता among देशों in the संसार रोज़ sharply between the 1980s और the mid-1990s , पहले  levelling off and then falling after 2000 .
नई जातीय विरोध उभरा in अफ़्रीकी , the balkans और the काकेशस , the पूर्व  two which led to the Rwandan genocide and Bosnian genocide , respectively .
The United States began its current military  occupation of the मध्य ईस्ट दौरान the गर्मियाँ of 1990 साथ मरुस्थल शील्ड बाद it काटें बंद  a large portion of the world 's petroleum supply .
Signs of any resolution of tensions  between इसराईल और the अरब संसार remained elusive , हालांकि the आयरिश परेशानियों आए to a standstill  in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement after 30 years of violence .
The  धूसर भेड़िया or धूसर भेड़िया ( canis lupus ) is a प्रजाति of canid देशी  to the wilderness and remote areas of North America , Eurasia , and North Africa .
It  is the largest सदस्य of इसके परिवार  , with males averaging , and females .
It is similar in  सामान्य रूप और proportions to a जर्मनी गड़रिये , or sled श्वान , लकिन रै a larger सिर , narrower छाती  , longer legs , straighter tail and bigger paws .
Its winter fur is long and bushy , and predominantly a mottled gray in  रंग , हालांकि nearly pure श्वेत , रेड , or भूरा  to black also occur .
Within the genus Canis , the gray wolf  represents a अधिक specialised और प्रगतिशील रूप than इसके छोटी cousins ( the कायोटी और सुनहरी jackal ) , as demonstrated by इसके morphological adaptations to शिकार विशाल शिकार , इसके अधिक मिलनसार प्रकृति और  its highly advanced expressive behavior .
It is a social animal , travelling in nuclear  परिवारों consisting of a पन्द्रहवें जोड़ी , accompanied by the जोड़ी  's adult offspring .
the धूसर भेड़िया is typically an apex परभक्षी throughout इसके दायरा ,  with only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it .
It  फ़ीड्स primarily on विशाल ungulates , हालांकि it भी eats छोटी  animals , livestock , carrion , and garbage .
The gray  भेड़िया is एक of the संसार 's सबसे खूब शोधकार्य पशु  , with probably more books written about it than any other wildlife species .
It has a long history of association with humans , having been  despised और hunted in सबसे agricultural समुदायों due to इसके हमले on पशुधन , जबकि conversely होने आदरणीय  by some Native American tribes .
It  is the एकमात्र पूर्वज of the श्वान , जिससे थी  first domesticated in the Middle East .
Although the fear of wolves is  प्रचलित in अनेक इंसान समाजों , the बहुमत of अंकित हमले on लोगों have  been attributed to animals suffering from rabies .
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and killed  लोगों , मुख्यतः children , लकिन इस is असामान्य , as भेड़ियों हैं अपेक्षाकृत few , सजीव दूर इससे लोगों , और have महरूम सिखाया to  fear humans by hunters and shepherds .
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to , though its  स्टिल अपेक्षाकृत फैली दायरा और stable जनसांख्यिकी अर्थात् कि the प्रजाति is नहीं threatened at a वैश्विक स्तर , और is इसलिए  classified by the IUCN as Least Concern .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the  प्राचीन रोमन सभ्यता , characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the भूमध्यसागरीय in  Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic ,  जिससे preceded it , था महरूम destabilized through a श्रेणी of  civil wars .
अनेक कार्यक्रम चिह्नित the परिवर्तन इससे गणतंत्र to साम्राज्य , सहित जूलियस सीज़र 's नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 bc )  ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ) .
The first two centuries  of the साम्राज्य यहूद a काल of unprecedented स्थिरता और समृद्धि  known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached its greatest  expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of त्राजान (  98–117 AD ) .
In the 3rd  सदी , the साम्राज्य underwent a संकट कि threatened इसके अस्तित्व , लकिन थी reunified और  stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian .
ईसाइयों रोज़ to शक्ति in the 4th सदी , दौरान जिससे समय  a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East .
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century , the  पूर्वी हाफ जारी as कया होता बाद be ज्ञात as the बीज़ान्टिन साम्राज्य  .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound  और स्थायी influence on the विकास of भाषा , धर्म , वास्तुकला , दर्शनशास्त्र , विधि , और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed , विशेषकर यूरोपीय , और by अर्थात् of यूरोपीय expansionism throughout  the modern world .
Education in the United States is mainly provided by the public  सेक्टर , साथ कंट्रोल और funding coming इससे तीन स्तर : लोकल , राज्य , और  federal , in that order .
Child education is compulsory , and there are also a large number  और चौड़ी किस्में of उच्चतर शिक्षा संस्थानों throughout the देश कि एक can चुनें to attend , दोनो सरेआम और  privately administered .
Public  शिक्षा is universally उपलब्धियाँ  .
स्कूल curricula , funding , शिक्षण , नियुक्ति , और अन्य नीतियों हैं नियत through locally निर्वाचित स्कूल  boards with jurisdiction over school districts with many directives from state legislatures .
स्कूल जिले हैं प्रायः पृथक इससे अन्य लोकल  jurisdictions , with independent officials and budgets .
Educational standards and  मानकीकृत परीक्षण निर्णय हैं प्रायः बना by राज्य सरकारें  .
The ages for  अनिवार्य शिक्षा vary by  state .
It begins from ages five  to आठ और ends इससे आयु  fourteen to eighteen .
Compulsory  शिक्षा आवश्यकताएँ can generally be संतुष्ट by educating children  in public schools , state-certified private schools , or an approved home school program .
In most public and private  स्कूलों , शिक्षा is विभाजित into तीन स्तर : elementary स्कूल , मध्य स्कूल ( sometimes पुकारा जूनियर ऊँची स्कूल ) , और ऊँची स्कूल  ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ) .
In almost all schools at these levels , children are divided by age groups into  ग्रेड , ranging इससे किंडरगार्टन ( followed by पहला ग्रेड ) लिये the youngest children in elementary स्कूल , up to  twelfth grade , the final year of high school .
The exact age range of  विद्यार्थी in ये ग्रेड स्तर varies थोड़ा  from area to area .
post-secondary शिक्षा , बेहतर ज्ञात as `` कॉलेज `` in the संयुक्त राज्य , is generally governed separately इससे  the elementary and high school system , and is described in a separate section below .
Government supported , free public schools for all started being established  बाद the क्रान्ति , और विस्तारित in the 19th सदी , as the परिणाम of प्रयत्न of  men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington .
By 1870 , all states had free elementary  स्कूलों , albeit तभी in शहरी centers  .
As the 20th century drew nearer ,  राज्य प्रारंभ गुजर कानून to मेक schooling अनिवार्य , और by 1910 , 72 प्रतिशत of children attended  school .
निजी स्कूलों जारी to स्प्रेड दौरान इस समय , as खूब  as colleges and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges .
The year  of 1910 भी देखी the पहला  true high schools .
During  the बाकी of the 20th सदी , शैक्षणिक प्रयत्न केन्द्रित  on reducing the inequality of the schooling system .
The landmark Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of  शिक्षा बना the desegregation of elementary और ऊँची स्कूलों a नेशनल प्रधानता , जबकि the pell ग्रान्ट  program helped poor minorities gain access to college .
खास शिक्षा थी बना into  federal law in 1975 .
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 made  मानकीकृत परीक्षण a आवश्यकता , और in 1983 , a आयोग थी स्थापित to evaluate उनके परिणाम और propose  a course of action .
The  resulting no चाइल्ड बाएँ पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 थी विवादास्पद  and its goals proved to be unrealistic .
A commission established in 2006  evaluated उच्चतर शिक्षा , लकिन इसके सुझाव have yet to be fully  implemented .
Paul Bragg ( February  6 , 1895 – दिसम्बर 7 , 1976 ) , nutritionist , थी a पायोनियर in america’s  wellness movement .
Health spending  प्रति capita , in $ us ppp-adjusted , साथ the us और कनाडा compared  amongst other first world nations .
तुलना of the स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों in कनाडा और the संयुक्त  States are often made by government , public health and public policy analysts .
the दो देशों था समान स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों  before Canada reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s .
the संयुक्त राज्य खर्च much अधिक धन on स्वास्थ्य परवाह than कनाडा ,  on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 ,  per-capita बिता लिये स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कनाडा थी us  $ 3,678 ; in the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
the u.S. खर्च 15.3 % of जीडीपी on स्वास्थ्य परवाह  in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of health  परवाह बिता in कनाडा थी financed by  government , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per  capita in the u.S. on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी 23 % उच्चतर than कनाडाई सरकारी बिता , और u.S. सरकारी व्यय on स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी बस अंतर्गत 83 %  of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences .
Studies have come to different  conclusions परिचय the परिणाम of इस disparity in बिता  .
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes  may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन मतभेद हैं नहीं सतत  . ''
Life expectancy is  longer in कनाडा , और इसके शिशु मृत्यु रेट is निम्नतर than कि of the u.S. , लकिन वहीँ  is debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly  cited तुलना , the 2000 संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन 's दरजा of `` overall स्वास्थ्य सेवा प्रदर्शन '' , जिससे प्रयुक्त a `` कम्पोजिट  measure of achievement in the level of health , the distribution of health , the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '' , or  विशेषता of सेवा लिये individuals receiving उपचार , as 1st , compared साथ  7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6  सालो लिये निवासियों of the us , बस comparing the जीवन प्रत्याशा of दो समूह साथ अलग जातिगत मेकअप और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता  of determining which healthcare system is superior .
the जो 's पढ़ाई विधि यहूद  criticized by some analyses .
Although there is a  माप of सर्वसम्मति कि life-expectancy और शिशु मृत्यु चिह्नित the सबसे विश्वसनीय तरीके to compare nation-wide स्वास्थ्य परवाह , assuming the जनसांख्यिकी मेकअप is समान , a हाल रपट by the congressional शोध  Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
The sound source has now broken through the sound speed  अवरोध , और is traveling at 1.4 टाइम्स the गति of ध्वनि , ( mach 1.4  ) .
Since the source is moving  तेज़ ( साथ a गति ) than the ध्वनि लहरें it creates  , it actually leads the advancing wavefront .
The sound source will pass  by a stationary निरीक्षक ( साथ a गति ) पहले the निरीक्षक  actually hears the sound it creates .
As a  परिणाम , an निरीक्षक in सामने of the  source will detect
and an observer  पीछे the सोर्स  .
A sonic boom produced  by an वायुयान चलती at m=2.92 , गणना  from the cone angle of 20 degrees .
An observer hears the boom when  the शॉक वेव , on the किनारे of the कोन , crosses  his or her location .
mach कोन कोण
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock  लहरें निर्मित by an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the एयर तेज़ than the गति  of sound .
Sonic booms generate enormous  amounts of ध्वनि उर्जा , sounding much जैसे an विस्फोट  .
The crack of a supersonic  गोली गुजर ओवरहेड is an  example of a sonic boom in miniature .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is  an अमरीकी late-night बात दिखाएँ hosted by jay लीनो कि initially aired इससे may 25 , 1992 to may 29 , 2009 , और resumed उत्पादन on कूच  1 , 2010 .
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight  दिखाएँ मताधिकार बना इसके डेब्यू on may 25 , 1992 , तीन दिनों following जॉनी कार्सन 's  retirement as host of the program .
The program originates from NBC  studios in burbank , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , और is ब्रॉडकास्ट सोमवार through शुक्रवार at 11:35 pm in the पूर्वी और प्रशांत  time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ) .
Unlike  कार्सन or उसके पूर्ववर्ती जोकर paar , लीनो तभी एकबार utilized a अतिथि मेजबान ,  preferring to host the series by himself .
On April 26 , 1999 , the show began  प्रसारण in 1080i hdtv , बनने the पहला अमरीकी nightly बात  show to be shot in high definition .
The show  is शॉट in 16:9 पहलू अनुपात  .
The series , which  followed the वही मौलिक स्वरूप as कि of उसके पूर्ववर्तियों ( an खोलने monologue followed  by comedy routines , interviews and performances ) , ran until May 29 , 2009 , after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien .
एनबीसी हस्ताक्षरित लीनो to a नई सौदे लिये a nightly  talk show in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot .
The primetime series , titled The Jay Leno Show , debuted on  सितंबर 14 , 2009 , following a समान स्वरूप to the लीनो अवतार  of Tonight .
Neither O'Brien 's  संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम , जिससे premiered जून 1 , 2009 , nor the  Jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC had expected .
The network decided to move a  सघन 30-minute संस्करण of लीनो 's दिखाएँ to o'brien 's समय स्लॉट , और  O'Brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later .
इस निर्णय मिले साथ विपक्ष इससे o'brien , जिनकी कार्यावधि on the tonight दिखाएँ ended जनवरी  22 , 2010 , after which he began his own talk show on TBS .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno then began its second and  वर्तमान अवतार , the छठे of the मताधिकार , on कूच 1 ,  2010 .
RFID chip  अगला to a अनाज  of rice .
इस चिप contains a radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड कुंडली कि modulates an बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र  a coded identification number when queried by a reader device .
This small type is incorporated in consumer products  , और implanted in पालतु , लिये पहचान  purposes .
Radio-frequency  पहचान ( rfid ) is the बेतार non-contact उपयोग of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा  , for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects .
The tags contain  electronically भंडारित सूचना  .
Some  टैग हैं संचालित और पढ़ा at छोटी सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर  ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as a battery , or else  have no बैटरी लकिन collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating em फ़ील्ड , और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or uhf रेडियो लहरें ( i.e. , इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery  संचालित टैग may operate at सैंकड़ों  of meters .
नापसंद a बार कोड , the टैग करता नहीं necessarily need to be भीतर लकीर of  sight of the reader , and may be embedded in the tracked object .
RFID tags are used in  अनेक उद्योग .
An RFID tag attached to an  ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान उत्पादन can be प्रयुक्त to track इसके प्रगति  through the assembly line .
दवाएँ can be tracked through warehouses  .
Livestock and pets may have tags injected ,  allowing धनात्मक पहचान of the एनिमल  .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing ,  possessions , or भी implanted भीतर लोगों , the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked सूचना  without consent has raised privacy concerns .
Id , ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic  apparatus पारिभाषित in सिग्मुंड फ्रायड 's संरचनात्मक मॉडल of the psyche ; वे हैं the तीन सैद्धांतिक constructs in शर्तें of जिनकी कार्यकलाप और  interaction mental life is described .
According to this model of the psyche , the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the  नाजुक और moralizing भूमिका ; और the अहंकार is the व्यवस्थित , यथार्थवादी भाग कि mediates between the इच्छाओं of  the id and the super-ego .
The  super-ego can रोकें तुम इससे doing निश्चित बाते कि अपना  id may want you to do .
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus , the id  , अहंकार और super-ego हैं कृत्यों of the दिमाग बल्कि than भाग of the दिमाग और do नहीं correspond one-to-one साथ वास्तविक  somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience .
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic  मॉडल '' और `` topographical मॉडल '' ) थी पहला discussed in उसके 1920 निबन्ध `` परे the ख़ुशी principle `` और थी formalized और elaborated upon तीन सालो बाद  in his `` The Ego and the Id `` .
Freud 's  प्रस्ताव थी बहकावे by the ambiguity of the पद `` बेहोश ``  and its many conflicting uses .
एयर फ़ोर्स  ROTC emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the  संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स , the अन्य दो होने the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स अकादमी ( usafa ) और एयर फ़ोर्स अधिकारी प्रशिक्षण स्कूल  ( OTS ) .
A subordinate command of the Air University within the Air Education and  प्रशिक्षण कमांड ( aetc ) , afrotc is लकीर अंतर्गत the jeanne M. holm बीच लिये अधिकारी accessions और नागरिक विकास  at Maxwell AFB , Alabama .
The Holm Center , formerly known as the Air Force  अधिकारी accession और प्रशिक्षण स्कूलों ( afoats ) , retains सीधा जिम्मेदारी लिये दोनो afrotc और  OTS .
AFROTC is the largest and  oldest सोर्स of commissioned अधिकारियों लिये the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स  .
AFROTC 's stated mission is to produce quality  नेताओ लिये the u.S.  Air Force .
AFROTC units are located on 144 college and university campuses with 984 additional institutions of higher learning participating in cross-town  समझौतों कि allow उनके विद्यार्थी to attend afrotc वर्ग at a आसपास `` मेजबान '' कॉलेज or विश्वविद्यालयों  .
According to  afoats hq , in 2006 , afrotc commissioned 2,083 यूएसएएफ दूसरी lieutenants , साथ afrotc नामांकन ranging इससे 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in  1993 , and around 13,000 enrolled today .
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called ``  detachments , '' और हैं typically headed by an क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारी in the रैंक of कर्नल or लेफ्टिनेंट कर्नल जो कृत्यों as दोनो the detachment कमांडर लिये यूएसएएफ  purposes and with the nominal title of Professor of Aerospace Studies ( PAS ) within the institution 's academic community .
सबसे कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों होगा designate  the AFROTC detachment as the Department of Aerospace Studies .
The PAS is  assisted by तीन to चार सहायक professors of aerospace अध्ययन  ( APAS ) , all active duty USAF officers in the ranks of major or captain .
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned officer  होगा typically provide सैन्य प्रशासनिक support और हैं प्रायः augmented by एक to दो  civilian staff support employees of the academic institution .
Within  afrotc detachments , the विद्यार्थी ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) हैं व्यवस्थित into विंग्स , समूह , squadrons  , and flights , mirroring the USAF functional wing structure .
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the General Military Course ( GMC )  consisting of the पहला दो सालो of प्रशिक्षण , और the पेशेवर अधिकारी कोर्स ( poc  ) consisting of the last two years of training .
The AFROTC program is also divided into two training functions : the Academic  कक्षा कार्यक्रम ( aerospace अध्ययन वर्ग ) और cadet क्रियाएँ ( i.e. , नेतृत्व प्रयोगशाला ,  Physical Training , and other training ) .
Paper density ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a term used in the pulp and paper industry and also  लिये कपड़ा उद्योग to denote a माप of द्रव्यमान of the उत्पाद प्रति ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल लिये a प्रकार of कपड़ा  , paper or paperboard .
The term `` density '' is  नहीं प्रयुक्त in इसके परंपरागत भाव of द्रव्यमान प्रति  unit volume .
``  पेपर घनत्व '' , बल्कि , is a माप  of the area density .
Paper products that let  छोटी or no लाइट pass through ( e.g . पोस्टर फलक ) हैं  considered dense or heavy .
Paper products that allow some light to  pass through ( e.g . ऊतक पेपर ) हैं माना  lightweight .
In the pulp and paper industry , it is common  to नियत a वाणिज्यिक पेपर यंत्र to उपज पेपर to a  target paper density .
Paper density can also be used to  फर्क पेपर इससे paperboard as the latter प्रायः रै a grammage वृहद than 134 g/m2 .
Two  तरीके of expressing पेपर घनत्व हैं  commonly used:
Expressed in grams per square meter ( g/m2  ) , पेपर घनत्व is भी  known as grammage .
This is the measure  प्रयुक्त in सबसे भाग of the  world .
Expressed in terms of the  द्रव्यमान ( expressed as वज़न ) प्रति क्रमांक of चादरें , it is ज्ञात  as basis weight .
The convention used in the United States and a few other countries using US  पेपर आकार is पाउंड of a ream of 500 ( or in कुछ मामले 1000 ) चादरें  of a given ( raw , still uncut ) basis size .
Japanese paper is  expressed as the वज़न in kg of  1000 sheets .
Candace  निकोल पार्कर ( born अप्रैल 19 , 1986 ) is an अमरीकी बास्केट खिलाड़ी लिये the wnba 's  Los Angeles Sparks and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia .
She is  the younger सिस्टर of  NBA player Anthony Parker .
She  attended the विश्वविद्यालयों of टेनेसी और थी drafted  by the Sparks in 2008 .
She may be best known for being the first woman to dunk in an NCAA tournament game and the first woman to  डंक twice in a कॉलेज game—she नियत दोनो माइलस्टोन as a redshirt freshman on कूच 19 , 2006  .
She  भी became तभी the दूसरी खिलाड़ी to  dunk in a WNBA game on June 22 , 2008 .
A  बहुमुखी खिलाड़ी , वो is मुख्यतः a आगे , लकिन थी सूचीबद्ध on  Tennessee 's roster as a forward , center , and guard .
She was a starter  on the महिला vols बास्केट टोली , विजेता of the 2007 और 2008  NCAA championships .
Parker won the 2009  निकलोडियन बच्चे ' चुनाव पुरस्कार as the पसंदीदा मादा  athlete in the sports category .
And she was a guest star  on फिगर it  Out .
A food  मार्गदर्शिका पिरामिड is a पिरामिड तराशा मार्गदर्शिका of स्वस्थ भोजन विभाजित into भाग to दिखाएँ the  recommended intake for each food group .
The  पहला खाना पिरामिड थी प्रकाशित in स्वीडन  in 1974 .
The most widely known food  पिरामिड थी introduced by the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि in  the year 1992 , was updated in 2005 , and then replaced in 2011 .
Over 25 other countries and organisations have  भी प्रकाशित खाना पिरामिडों  .
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred to in  scandinavia as H. C. andersen ; अप्रैल 2 , 1805august 4 , 1875 ) थी a डैनिश लेखक और कवि  .
हालांकि a सफल लेखक of plays , travelogues , novels , और कविताएं , andersen  is best remembered for his fairy tales , a literary genre he so mastered that he himself has become as mythical as the tales he wrote .
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ; his stories—called , or ``  fantastic किस्से '' —express विषयवस्तु कि transcend आयु  and nationality .
During his lifetime  he थी acclaimed लिये having प्रसन्न children विश्वव्यापी और थी feted by  royalty .
Andersen  's परी किस्से , जिससे have महरूम अनूदित into अधिक than 125 भाषाएं , have become culturally अंतःस्थापित in the वेस्ट 's सामूहिक चेतना , readily  accessible to children , but presenting lessons of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well .
They have inspired motion  तस्वीरें , plays , नाटिकाओं , और एनिमेटेड films  .
Two figures locking eyes in  caravaggio 's the सौभाग्य  Teller
Eye  सम्पर्क occurs जब `` दो लोगों dekh at  each other 's eyes at the same time . ''
In human beings , eye contact is a form of nonverbal  संचार और is विचार to have a विशाल influence on सोशल बर्ताव .
Coined in the early to mid-1960s ,  the पद रै आइये in the वेस्ट to प्रायः define the अधिनियम as a सार्थक और महत्वपूर्ण चिह्न of विश्वास  and social communication .
The customs and significance  of नजर सम्पर्क vary widely between संस्कृतियों , साथ धार्मिक और सोशल मतभेद  often altering its meaning greatly .
The study  of नजर सम्पर्क is sometimes ज्ञात  as oculesics .
Bed bugs are parasitic insects  of the cimicid परिवार कि फीड exclusively  on blood .
The term most commonly  refers to सदस्यों of the genus cimex of जिससे cimex lectularius , the आम bed कीड़ा , is the बेहतरीन ज्ञात as it prefers to फीड on इंसान रक्त हालांकि अन्य cimex प्रजाति हैं specialized to अन्य  animals , e.g. , bat bugs , C. pipistrelli ( Europe ) , C. pilosellus ( western US ) , and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ) .
The name of the `` bed bug '' is derived from the  पसन्दीदा आवास of cimex lectularius : गरम घरों और विशेषकर आसपास or अंदर of beds  and bedding or other sleep areas .
Bed bugs are mainly  क्रियाशील at रात्रि , लकिन हैं नहीं exclusively  nocturnal .
They usually feed on  उनके होस्ट बगैर होने noticed  .
A number of adverse health effects may result  इससे bed कीड़ा bites , सहित स्किन  rashes , psychological effects , and allergic symptoms .
Diagnosis involves both finding bed bugs  और the occurrence of संगत लक्षण .
Bed bugs have been known  as इंसान परजीवी लिये हज़ारों of सालो  .
At a point in the  जल्दी 1940s , वे यहूद ज़्यादातर eradicated in the विकसित  world , but have increased in prevalence since 1995 .
Because  infestation of इंसान habitats रै महरूम on the बढ़ाएँ , bed  bug bites and related conditions have been on the rise as well .
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter Prophets in  the यहूदी बाइबल , preceding ezekiel , यिर्मयाह और the किताब of the बारह  .
( The order of the  subsequent किताबे differs somewhat in the ईसाई बूढ़ा  Testament ) .
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all the nations of the world that oppose God , while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel and a new creation in God 's glorious future kingdom  ; इस खण्ड शामिल the गीतों of the कष्ट नौकर , चार पृथक passages referring to the स्वदेश of इसराईल , interpreted by ईसाइयों as prefiguring the coming of यीशु मसीह  .
Tradition ascribes authorship of the  किताब to यशायाह बेटे of amoz , लकिन अभी विद्वानों widely सहमत कि the किताब is the कार्य of तीन अलग लेखक - few विद्वानों इनकार इस दृश्य , और those कि do ,  do so for theological reasons .
The first , termed  proto-isaiah ( अध्याय 1–39 ) , contains the शब्द of the 8th-century bce नबी साथ 7th-century bce expansions ; the दूसरी , deutero-isaiah ( अध्याय 40–55 ) , is the कार्य of a 6th-century bce लेखक लिखने निकट the समाप्त of the babylonian captivity ; और  the third , the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters 56–66 ) , was composed in Jerusalem shortly after the return from exile , probably by multiple authors .
Oregon State  विश्वविद्यालयों ( osu ) is a coeducational , पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in corvallis , ऑरेगॉन ,  United States .
The university offers undergraduate , graduate and  डॉक्टरेट डिग्री और a multitude of शोध अवसर  .
There are more  than 200 अकादमिक उपाधि कार्यक्रम offered  through the university .
OSU 's programs in  सूक्ष्मजैविकी , नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी , पारिस्थितिकी , वानिकी , पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य , biochemistry , zoology , oceanography , खाना विज्ञान और फार्मेसी हैं  recognized nationally as top tier programs .
The OSU  's उदार कला कार्यक्रम have भी grown significantly और the विभाग is  considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution .
More than 200,000 people have  attended osu चूंकि इसके founding .
The Carnegie  न्यास classifies ऑरेगॉन राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों as  part of its top tier of research institutions .
As  of 2008 , osu is एक of तभी seventy-three  land-grant universities .
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant , space-grant and sun-grant institution , making it one of only two US  संस्थानों to retain सब चार designations और the तभी पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों to do so ( कॉर्नेल is the तभी अन्य साथ समान designations  ) .
As one of the two flagship universities of the Oregon University  प्रणाली , osu receives अधिक funding लिये शोध , annually , than सब अन्य पब्लिक उच्चतर  education institutions in Oregon combined .
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human  महिलाओं इससे the paraurethral नलिकाएं through और around the मादा urethra  during or before an orgasm .
It is also known colloquially as  gushing or squirting , हालांकि ये हैं माना to be अलग phenomena in  some research publications .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue  to be a टॉपिक of बहस among चिकित्सा पेशेवर , जिससे is भी सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the अस्तित्व  of the G-Spot .
The Kanab ambersnail , scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense , is a critically  endangered subspecies or प्रजाति of छोटी , air-breathing जमीन घोंघा , a स्थलीय pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the परिवार succineidae  , the amber snails .
The  आम नाम of the एम्बर घोंघे is आधारित on the शेल , जिससे is पारदर्शी  and when empty usually resembles amber in color .
This species is endemic to the United States , specifically the state of  एरिज़ोना और यूटा , जहाँ it थी पहला एकत्रित in the जल्दी 20th सदी  .
It has been listed as  endangered on the संयुक्त राज्य मछली और वन्यजीव सेवा सूची of endangered  species since 8 August 1991 .
This snail lives in wetlands , springs , and seeps , and  तभी दो of इसके प्राकृतिक habitats हैं ज्ञात to मौजूद : तीन झीलों , a मर्ग निकट kanab , यूटा , और vasey 's स्वर्ग , a वसन्त साथ the कोलोराडो  River within Grand Canyon National Park .
In its natural habitat it is rather  polyphagous , feeding मुख्यतः on जीवाणु , पौधे और fungi , और reproduces दौरान  the summer .
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the IUCN Red List of Threatened  प्रजाति due to a श्रेणी of कारकों ( सहित influence ) , the kanab ambersnail रै महरूम reintroduced to तीन स्रोतों ऊपर the ऐतिहासिक ऊँची जल स्तर साथ the कोलोराडो नदी  .
the स्पेनी भाषा is the दूसरी सबसे प्रयुक्त भाषा  in the United States .
There are more Spanish speakers in the United States than there  हैं अध्यक्षों of चाइनीज , फ्रेंच , जर्मनी , इतालवी , हवाई , और the देशी  American languages combined .
According to  the 2010 अमरीकी जातियाँ सर्वेक्षण conducted by the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो , स्पेनी is the प्राथमिक भाषा बोला at घर by लगभग  37 million people aged five or older , a figure more than double that of 1990 .
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language , as well as six million Spanish language students , composing the largest national  spanish-speaking जातियाँ बाहर of मैक्सिको और बनाना स्पेनी the रोमांस भाषा और the indo-european भाषा साथ largest  number of native speakers in the world .
Roughly half of all  u.S. स्पेनी अध्यक्षों भी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी `` बहुत खूब , '' आधारित on the  self-assessment Census question respondents .
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries with the arrival  of स्पेनी colonists in क्षेत्रों कि होता बाद become the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा , टेक्सास , कोलोराडो , नई मैक्सिको , एरिज़ोना , नेवाडा , यूटा , और कैलिफ़ोर्निया और of the स्पेनी explorers  - who explored areas of 42 states- .
Also west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the  फ्रेंच रिकवरी of territory ) , बाद the फ्रेंच और भारतीय  War .
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th century , the Spanish language was later reinforced by the  अधिग्रहण of प्यूर्टो रीको in 1898 और by बाद लहरें of the हिस्पैनिक करणों , मूलरूप इससे हिस्पैनिक अमेरिका , to the संयुक्त  States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today .
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or  , in लिखने , `` it थी यूँ in the सोर्स सामग्री  '' .
sic may भी refer  to:
Sic , Cluj  , a कम्यून in रोमानिया
SIC , the  क्षेत्रीय कोड लिये  Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ) ,  styled as [ sic ] , स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर मॉरिस  , a Canadian noise artist
sic ( बैंड ) is a आधुनिक hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड इससे  Torshavn , the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '' , a song  by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot on the एल्बम slipknot
SIC ,  the आरंभिक of मार्को  Simoncelli .
SIC  as an एक्रोनिम may स्टैंड  for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a  semiconducting सामग्री , भी प्रयुक्त to मेक  metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar  ) ( società इटालियाना  Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial  वर्गीकरण , a 20th-century u.S. प्रणाली लिये classifying  industries
अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण a un  system for economic activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स  Council
the स्विस interbank clearing  system
San Isidro Club , an  अर्जेंटाइन रग्बी संघ  club
Standing  निर्वचन कमेटी , a कमेटी समर्पित to the निर्वचन of  international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz  सूचना मानदंड in the फ़ील्ड of आंकडे
Second-in-command in  the फ़ील्ड of विमानन
sistema interconectado  Central power grid in Chile
Sociedade  independente de comunicação ( sic ) , a टेलीविज़न  channel in Portugal
Sea  आइल नगर , नई जर्सी , a तटीय  town in the United States
segmented पूर्णांक काउंटर विधि ,  a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang International  सर्किट , a high-end racetrack कि होस्ट the मलेशियाई गोलाकार of  Formula 1
Shanghai  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट , a मोटर  racing venue in Shanghai , China
Simplified  निर्देशात्मक कंप्यूटर , a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों  programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an early  twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित by फ्रेंच लेखक पियरे  Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College , a two year Junior  कॉलेज in harrisburg , इलिनोइस , संयुक्त राज्य
Specific  आगमनात्मक क्षमता , abbreviated to sic , जिससे is अधिक commonly ज्ञात as the  relative permittivity or the dielectric constant
St Ignatius  ' कॉलेज , riverview , a जेसुइट  school in Sydney , Australia
alt=five मुस्कुराना यंग लड़कियों in विभिन्न मुद्राएँ wearing श्वेत smocks over  thigh-length dresses of similar color to their hair .
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga  और दुश्मनी श्रेणी सुविधाएँ a डाल of वर्ण designed  by Mia Ikumi .
The series takes place in Tokyo , Japan , where five adolescent  लड़कियों , पुकारा mew mews , हैं infused साथ the डीएनए of endangered प्रजाति to कॉम्बैट  aliens attempting to take over the Earth .
The manga series is followed by a  छोटी sequel श्रेणी , टोकियो mew mew a la विधि , जिससे  introduces a new Mew Mew and a new threat .
The Mew Mews are led  by the प्रमुख अक्षर , ichigo momomiya , जिनकी पहला कार्य is to  gather the other four Mew Mews : Mint Aizawa , Lettuce Midorikawa , Pudding Fong , and Zakuro Fujiwara .
As the series progresses , Ichigo goes from having a  crush on masaya aoyama to बनने उसके गर्लफ्रेंड जबकि trying to छुपा उसके रहस्य  double life from him .
The series  antagonists शामिल तीन एलियंस , kish , पाई , और तीखा , और  their leader , Deep Blue .
originally इससे धरती , the एलियंस यहूद मजबूर to छोड़ long पहले due to  deadly environmental changes .
वे have लौटे to मार the इंसानो , जो वे  feel are destroying their planet , and reclaim the planet .
In a la Mode , middle school student Berry Shirayuki  is introduced as the छठे mew mew और , in the अनुपस्थिति of ichigo , the अस्थाई नेता of the mew  Mews .
A la Mode also introduces new set of antagonists , the Saint Rose  crusaders , a समूह of इंसान teenagers साथ विभिन्न मानसिक abilities साथ a ख्वाहिश to बनाएँ उनके अपना  utopia .
Led by Duke , they make  अनेक कोशिशें to मार बेरी , आखिरकार turning the लोकल populace  against the Mew Mews .
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew  mew थी a स्टोरी पुकारा टोकियो ब्लैक बिल्ली लड़की कि  featured a cat-girl battling alien invaders .
After the story was  transitioned to a अधिक upbeat स्टोरी of पाँच मादा superheroes , the अक्षर  designs were redone to have a lighter , more colorful feel .
The main series characters were praised for  होने a पूर्ण अनुरूप लिये the overall स्टोरी , as खूब as लिये उनके cute दिखावे  .
The characters introduced in a la Mode  यहूद भी praised लिये उनके विज़ुअल दिखावे , लकिन criticized as होने  repeats of the original series .
The character Duke was also criticized for having a  डिज़ाइन reminiscent of the श्वेत सर्वोच्चता समूह , the ku klux क्लान  .
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( below  ) और limestones ( ऊपर ) , वर्जिन गठन , southwestern  Utah , USA
Sedimentary rocks are types  of चट्टान कि हैं formed by the deposition of सामग्री at the धरती 's सतह और भीतर लाशें of  water .
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause  खनिज and/or सशुल्क अणु ( detritus ) to settle और accumulate or खनिज to precipitate इससे a  solution .
Particles that form a  sedimentary चट्टान by accumulating हैं पुकारा sediment  .
Before being deposited , sediment was formed by  weathering और अपरदन in a सोर्स क्षेत्रफल , और तब transported to the प्लेस of deposition by जल , हवा , बर्फ , द्रव्यमान गति  or glaciers which are called agents of denudation .
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth 's crust is  extensive , लकिन the कुल योगदान of sedimentary रॉक्स is अनुमानित to be तभी 8 % of the कुल आवाज़ of the  crust .
Sedimentary rocks are  तभी a पतला veneer over a क्रस्ट consisting मुख्यतः  of igneous and metamorphic rocks .
sedimentary रॉक्स हैं deposited in परतों as strata  , forming a structure called bedding .
The study of sedimentary rocks  और चट्टान strata provides सूचना परिचय the subsurface कि is उपयोगी लिये सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी , लिये उदाहरण in the निर्माण  of roads , houses , tunnels , canals or other constructions .
Sedimentary rocks  हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण स्त्रोत of प्राकृतिक संसाधन जैसे कोयले ,  fossil fuels , drinking water or ores .
The study of the sequence of  sedimentary चट्टान strata is the प्रमुख सोर्स लिये वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान परिचय the धरती 's इतिहास , सहित  palaeogeography , paleoclimatology and the history of life .
The scientific discipline that studies  the गुण और उत्पत्ति of sedimentary रॉक्स is पुकारा sedimentology  .
Sedimentology is both  भाग of भूविज्ञान और शारीरिक भूगोल और overlaps partly साथ अन्य disciplines in the धरती sciences , ऐसे  as pedology , geomorphology , geochemistry or structural geology .
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones , some of which fuse together into a  अनुदैर्ध्य अक्ष , the अक्षीय कंकाल , to जिससे the appendicular कंकाल is  attached .
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c.  387 – 17 कूच c. 460 or c. 492 ) थी a romano-british ईसाई  missionary and bishop in Ireland .
Known  as the `` apostle of आयरलैंड '' , he is the प्राथमिक संरक्षक संत of the द्वीप  along with Saints Brigid and Columba .
Two authentic letters  इससे उसे जीवित , इससे जिससे आइये the तभी generally  accepted details of his life .
When he was about 16 , he was captured from his home and taken as a slave to Ireland ,  जहाँ he जिया लिये छह सालो पहले escaping और returning to उसके  family .
After  बनने a मौलवी , he लौटे to उत्तरी और पश्चिमी  Ireland as an ordained bishop , but little is known about the places where he worked .
By the seventh  सदी , he था already आइये to be  revered as the patron saint of Ireland .
सबसे उपलब्धियाँ विवरण of उसके जीवन हैं इससे subsequent hagiographies , और ये  are now not accepted without detailed criticism .
The Annals of  ulster राज्य कि he arrived in आयरलैंड in 432 , ministered in ulster around  443 , and died in 457 or 461 .
The text ,  however , distinguishes between `` बूढ़ा पैट्रिक '' ( विचार to औसत palladius ) और `` पैट्रिक , archapostle  of the Scots , '' who died in 492 .
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be  फिक्स्ड साथ certainty लकिन , on a फैली निर्वचन , he थी क्रियाशील as a मिशनरी in आयरलैंड दौरान the  second half of the 5th century .
He is generally credited with being the first  बिशप of armagh , primate of सब आयरलैंड  .
संत पैट्रिक 's दिन is observed on कूच 17  , the date of his death .
It is celebrated both inside and outside  आयरलैंड , as दोनो a धार्मिक और , विशेषकर बाहर आयरलैंड , धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश  .
In the dioceses of  आयरलैंड , it is दोनो a solemnity और a पावन दिन of दायित्व ; बाहर आयरलैंड , it  can be a celebration of Ireland itself .
लकीर खण्ड  in the golden ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a and shorter side b , when placed adjacent to a  वर्गाकार साथ पहलू of लंबाई a , होगा उपज a समान सुनहरी आयताकार साथ longer पक्ष a + b  and shorter side a .
इस illustrates the  relationship .
In mathematics and the arts , two  quantities हैं in the सुनहरी अनुपात if the अनुपात of the योग of the quantities to the larger मात्रा is बराबर to the अनुपात of the larger मात्रा  to the smaller one .
The figure on the right  illustrates the ज्यामितीय संबंध  .
expressed algebraically:
where  the यूनानी अक्षर फाई ( ) represents the  golden ratio .
Its  मान is:
The golden ratio is  भी पुकारा the सुनहरी खण्ड ( लैटिन : sectio  aurea ) or golden mean .
Other names include extreme and mean ratio  , medial खण्ड , दैवी proportion , दैवी खण्ड ( लैटिन : sectio  divina ) , golden proportion , golden cut , and golden number .
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to approximate the  सुनहरी ratio—especially in the रूप of the सुनहरी आयताकार , in जिससे the अनुपात of the longer पक्ष to the shorter is the सुनहरी ratio—believing इस proportion  to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ) .
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio , including  इसके रूप in the आयाम of a नियमित प्रस्तुतीकरण और in a सुनहरी आयताकार , जिससे can be काटें into a वर्गाकार और  a smaller rectangle with the same aspect ratio .
The golden ratio has also been used to analyze the  proportions of प्राकृतिक वस्तुएँ as खूब as man-made प्रणालियों ऐसे as वित्तीय बाज़ार , in कुछ मामले आधारित on संदिग्ध fits to  data .
उत्तर myrtle बीच is a तटीय रिज़ॉर्ट नगर in horry काउंटी  , South Carolina , United States .
It was created in  1968 इससे चार मौजूदा municipalities उत्तर of myrtle बीच , और serves as एक of the प्राथमिक  tourist towns along the Grand Strand .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 13,752 at  the 2010 census .
World War I ( WWI ) was  a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक  11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from  इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939 , और the पहला संसार युद्ध  or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the  संसार 's ग्रेट शक्तियां , जिससे यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल  Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the  युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल शक्तियां  .
Ultimately , more than  70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों , सहित 60 लाख europeans , यहूद mobilised  in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed ,  largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित  improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth-  deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास , subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन , ऐसे as revolutions  in many of the nations involved .
एक of the long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in  the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
अधिक तत्काल , the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया , the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary  subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
अनेक alliances formed over  the previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were  at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the  world .
On 28 July , the  austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी  for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded  न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस , providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा  of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a  halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण  with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the  रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians , लकिन थी रोका  in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the  युद्ध , खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस , मेसोपोटामिया और the sinai  .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया  in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a  subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ the सेंट्रल  Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along  the पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives  and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own  ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत to an armistice  on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in  विजय लिये the allies  .
कार्यक्रम on the घर fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके  manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
by the समाप्त of the युद्ध , चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी , रूसी , austro-hungarian  and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of  the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory , जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled  entirely .
The map  of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into  several smaller states .
the लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing  another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of  जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों  contributing to World War II .
camden is a नगर in camden काउंटी , नई  Jersey , United States .
It is the county seat ,  स्तिथ आरपार the डेलावेयर नदी  from Philadelphia .
As of the 2010 United States Census the city had a total population of 77,344 , representing a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 %  ) इससे the 79,904 निवासियों enumerated दौरान the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी , जिससे था in फेरे अस्वीकृत by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) इससे the 87,492 गिने in the 1990  Census .
camden क्रमित as the 12th-most populous नगरपालिका  in the state in 2010 after having been ranked 10th in 2000 .
Camden was originally incorporated as a city on  फ़रवरी 13 , 1828 , इससे portions of the now-defunct न्यूटन township , जबकि the क्षेत्रफल थी स्टिल  part of Gloucester County .
On March 13 , 1844  , camden became भाग of the newly formed camden काउंटी  .
हालांकि एकबार a thriving बीच लिये निर्माण और उद्योग , camden  is perhaps best known for its struggles with urban dysfunction .
Three Camden mayors have  महरूम jailed लिये भ्रष्टाचार , the सबसे हाल होने मिल्टन  Milan in 2000 .
Since 2005 the school system and police department have been operated by  the राज्य of नई जर्सी ; the कब्ज़ा समाप्त in 2012  .
In 2008 , Camden had the  उच्चतम अपराधों रेट in the u.S. साथ 2,333 हिंसक अपराधों प्रति 100,000 लोगों  while the national average was 455 per 100,000 .
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a  budgetary per-pupil आधार ) in the 2009–10 स्कूल साल और two-thirds of the विद्यार्थी  graduate .
Two  आउट of प्रत्येक पाँच निवासियों हैं नीचे  the national poverty line .
amitriptyline ( tryptomer , elavil , tryptizol , laroxyl , saroten , sarotex  , Lentizol , Endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( TCA ) .
it is the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त tca और रै at तनिक बराबर efficacy विरूद्ध  depression as the newer class of SSRIs according to a study from early 2001 .
As well  as reducing depressive लक्षण , ये प्रकार of tricyclics भी आसानी migraines , टेंशन headaches ,  anxiety attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms .
It is also  ज्ञात to reduce आक्रामकता  and violent behavior .
A computer  is a सामान्य purpose यंत्र कि can be प्रोग्रामित  to carry out a finite set of arithmetic or logical operations .
चूंकि a अनुक्रम of परिचालन can be readily बदला , the कंप्यूटर can solve  more than one kind of problem .
Conventionally , a computer consists of at least one  प्रसंस्करण तत्व , typically a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण ईकाई  ( CPU ) and some form of memory .
The processing element carries out arithmetic and logic operations  , और a sequencing और कंट्रोल ईकाई कि can बदलें the अनुक्रम of परिचालन  based on stored information .
Peripheral  डिवाइस allow सूचना to be पुनर्प्राप्त इससे an बाह्य सोर्स , और the परिणाम of परिचालन  saved and retrieved .
The first electronic digital computers were developed  between 1940 और 1945 in the संयुक्त किंगडम और संयुक्त राज्य  .
Originally they were the size  of a विशाल रूम , consuming as much शक्ति as अनेक सौ आधुनिक निजी कंप्यूटर  ( PCs ) .
In this era mechanical  एनालॉग कंप्यूटर यहूद प्रयुक्त लिये सैन्य अनुप्रयोग  .
Modern computers based on integrated circuits are millions to billions of  टाइम्स अधिक सक्षम than the जल्दी मशीने , और occupy  a fraction of the space .
सरल कंप्यूटर हैं छोटी पर्याप्त to अनुरूप into मोबाईल डिवाइस ,  and mobile computers can be powered by small batteries .
Personal computers in their  विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म हैं प्रतीक of the सूचना आयु और हैं कया सबसे लोगों  think of as “computers.”
However , the embedded computers  मिला in अनेक डिवाइस इससे mp3 खिलाड़ी to सेनानी वायुयान और इससे  toys to industrial robots are the most numerous .
``  barefoot और गर्भवती '' is a phrase सबसे commonly संबद्ध साथ the विवादास्पद विचार कि महिलाओं चाहिए नहीं  work outside the home and should have many children during their reproductive years .
It  रै अनेक अन्य meanings  as well .
It is  a फिगर of वाक  .
The phrase ``  barefoot और गर्भवती '' थी संभवतः पहला  used sometime before 1950 .
An article from  1949 राज्य , `` by जल्दी 1949 , twa was—in the शब्द of इसके नई अध्यक्ष , ralph  S. Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant . ' ''
Its  उपयोग may तिथि as जल्दी  as the 1910s .
An article published in 1958 states the  phrase थी पहला प्रयुक्त by a `` dr. hertzler '' 40 सालो पहले  .
``  कुछ चालीस सालो पहले , dr. hertzler उन्नत a परिकल्पना जिससे यंग  women of today seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to  रखना a स्त्री प्रसन्न , ' he कहा , 'is to रखना उसके barefoot  and pregnant . ' ''
Oakhurst is  a census-designated प्लेस और unincorporated जातियाँ भीतर समंदर  Township , in Monmouth County , New Jersey , United States .
as of the 2010 संयुक्त  States Census , the CDP 's population was 3,995 .
University of Phoenix Stadium , opened  अगस्त 1 , 2006 , is a बहुउद्देशीय फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम स्तिथ in ग्लेनडेल , एरिज़ोना  .
It is the home of the  एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) और the सालाना  Fiesta Bowl .
the स्टेडियम is स्तिथ अगला द्वार to the jobing.com एरिना और it सुविधाएँ the पहला fully retractable प्राकृतिक  grass playing surface built in the United States on top of an AirField Systems drainage system .
An opening  on एक पक्ष of the स्टेडियम allows the playing फ़ील्ड to मूव to the exterior of the भवन , allowing the संपूर्ण प्राकृतिक turf playing सतह  to be exposed to daylight .
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl XLII , and the 2011 BCS  नेशनल चैंपियनशिप खेल , a खेल कि it होस्ट प्रत्येक चार सालो , जिससे नियत the स्थान 's entertainment उपस्थिति रिकार्ड of 78,603  on January 11 , 2011 .
It will again host  सुपर कटोरी xlix in  2015 .
The University of Phoenix  acquired the नामकरण अधिकारों in सितंबर 2006 , shortly बाद the स्टेडियम था खोली  under the name Cardinals Stadium .
The `` University of Phoenix `` name is  लागू as a कॉरपोरेट प्रायोजक , और नहीं as the घर स्टेडियम of the विश्वविद्यालयों ( जिससे रै no intercollegiate  athletics program ) .
The  स्टेडियम रै भी hosted the डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इवेंट रेसलमेनिया xxvi साथ  72,219 fans in attendance .
The  इवेंट थी आयोजित in the स्टेडियम on कूच 28th  2010 .
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8 , 1828 – February 24 , 1914 ) , born as  लॉरेंस जोशुआ चेम्बरलेन , थी an अमरीकी कॉलेज प्राध्यापक इससे the राज्य of maine , जो volunteered  during the American Civil War to join the Union Army .
Although having no  पहले शिक्षा in सैन्य रणनीति , he became a अत्यधिक आदरणीय और सजा संघ अधिकारी , reaching  the rank of brigadier general ( and brevet major general ) .
For his gallantry at  gettysburg , he थी awarded the पदक of  Honor .
He was given  the सम्मान of commanding the संघ सैनिकों at the आत्मसमर्पण रस्म लिये the infantry of  Robert E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox , Virginia .
बाद the युद्ध , he डाला राजनीती as a रिपब्लिकन और परोसा चार one-year  terms of office as the 32nd Governor of Maine .
He served on the faculty , and as  अध्यक्ष , of उसके अल्मा मेटर , bowdoin कॉलेज  .
An inning , or innings , is a fixed-length segment of a game in any of a variety of sports – most notably cricket  और बेसबॉल दौरान जिससे एक टोली कोशिशें to स्कोर जबकि the अन्य टोली कोशिशें to prevent the पहला  from scoring .
In cricket , the term innings is both  एकवचन और बहुवचन और is सदा spelled और सुनाया साथ  the terminal `` s '' .
In baseball and softball , the  एकवचन रूप is inning और तभी the बहुवचन takes an `` s '' .
In many other sports , the length of the game is  लिखवाई by a क्लॉक और टीमों स्वैप अप्रिय और रक्षात्मक भूमिकाएँ dynamically by लेने कब्ज़ा of a बॉल  or similar item .
In baseball and cricket , however , one team , said to be ``  बल्लेबाजी '' , कोशिशें to स्कोर `` रनों '' —see चलाएं ( बेसबॉल ) और चलाएं ( क्रिकेट ) —while the अन्य टोली , कहा to be `` क्षेत्ररक्षण '' , कोशिशें  to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out .
The  टीमों स्विच स्थान बाद the क्षेत्ररक्षण टोली रै succeeded  in getting a fixed number of players out , making a clock unnecessary .
In cricket , the term innings is  भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the खेल of एक particular खिलाड़ी ( स्मिथ था a ग़रीब  innings , scoring only 12 ) .
By extension  , इस पद can be प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी लिये लगभग कोई कार्यकलाप जिससे takes a काल of समय ( the उदार सरकारी था a शुभ पारी , लकिन आखिरकार  lost office in 1972 , or You 've had a fair innings , now it 's my turn , meaning `` you have spoken for long enough , now let me speak '' ) .
It is also  प्रयुक्त in सन्दर्भ to किसी जो रै died at a reasonably बूढ़ा आयु or जिया a समृद्ध  and rewarding life ( Ah , well .
जॉन थी  89 .
At least  he था a शुभ पारी  ) .
The  baseball-derived समानांतर to इस in अमरीकी  English is the term at bat .
According to the Oxford English  शब्दकोष , the पद पारी रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in सन्दर्भ to  cricket since at least 1735 .
As cricket was a mature , highly organized  खेल in the 1600s in इंग्लैण्ड , the पद 's उत्पत्ति could खूब precede इस पहला अंकित उपयोग  .
The word inning meaning 'a gathering in  ' is पहला अंकित in 1522 , और could  be related .
एडीनोसिन deaminase कमियां , भी पुकारा एडीए कमियां or ada-scid , is an autosomal  recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency .
it occurs in कम than एक  in 100,000 live births worldwide .
It accounts for  परिचय 15 % of सब मामले of कठोर संयुक्त immunodeficiency ( scid  ) .
It is very  विरल , तुम have a 3 % मौका of  getting this gene .
ADA deficiency may be  उपस्थित in शैशव , बाल्यकाल , adolescense  , or adulthood .
Age  of onset और गंभीरता is सम्बन्धित to कुछ  29 known genotypes associated with the disorder .
An example of  शहरी गरीबी in इस slum in जकार्ता  , Indonesia
गरीबी is the राज्य of एक जो lacks a निश्चित राशि  of material possessions or money .
Absolute  गरीबी or destitution refers to the पिछडे of मौलिक इंसान needs , जिससे commonly शामिल खाना , जल ,  sanitation , clothing , shelter , health care and education .
Relative poverty is defined contextually  as आर्थिक असमानता in the स्थान or समाज in जिससे लोगों  live .
For much of history , poverty was considered largely  अपरिहार्य as परंपरागत मोड्स of उत्पादन यहूद अपर्याप्त to दे an संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी a आरामदायक  standard of living .
After the industrial revolution , mass production in factories made wealth  increasingly अधिक inexpensive और accessible  .
Of more importance  is the modernization of कृषि , ऐसे as fertilizers , in अनुक्रम to provide  enough yield to feed the population .
The supply of basic needs can be restricted by constraints on government  सेवाएं ऐसे as भ्रष्टाचार , कर avoidance , कर्ज़ और ऋण conditionalities और by  the brain drain of health care and educational professionals .
रणनीति of increasing आय to मेक मौलिक needs अधिक सस्ती typically शामिल welfare , आर्थिक freedoms  , and providing financial services .
गरीबी कटौती is a प्रमुख लक्ष्य और समस्या लिये अनेक  international organizations such as the United Nations and the World Bank .
the संसार बैंको अनुमानित 1.29 अरब लोगों  were living in absolute poverty in 2008 .
Of these , about 400 million people in absolute  गरीबी जिया in इण्डिया और 173 लाख लोगों  in China .
In USA 1 in 5  children जीवनदान in गरीबी  .
In terms of percentage of  क्षेत्रीय populations , sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी at 47 % था the उच्चतम incidence  rate of absolute poverty in 2008 .
Between 1990 and 2010 ,  परिचय 663 लाख लोगों स्थानांतरित ऊपर the निरपेक्ष गरीबी  level .
Still , extreme poverty is a global  चुनौती ; it is observed in सब भाग of the संसार , सहित  the developed economies .
Mushroom  विषाक्तता ( भी ज्ञात as mycetism ) refers to नुकसानदेह प्रभाव इससे ingestion  of toxic substances present in a mushroom .
These symptoms  can vary इससे पतला जठरांत्र  discomfort to death .
The toxins present are  द्वितीयक metabolites उत्पादित in विशिष्ट biochemical pathways  in the fungal cells .
Mushroom poisoning is usually the  परिणाम of ingestion of जंगली मशरूम बाद misidentification of a विषाक्त मशरूम as an खाद्य प्रजाति  .
The most  आम कारण लिये इस misidentification is बंद प्रतिरूप in शर्तें of रंग और सामान्य morphology  of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species .
Even very experienced wild  मशरूम gatherers हैं upon विरल अवसर poisoned by  eating toxic species , despite being well aware of the risks , through carelessness .
To prevent mushroom poisoning ,  मशरूम gatherers need to be बहुत परिचित साथ the मशरूम वे intend to collect  as well as with any similar-looking toxic species .
In addition , edibility of  मशरूम may निर्भर on विधि of तैयारी लिये कुकिंग  .
Collectors also need to be well  जागरूक कि edibility or toxicity of कुछ प्रजाति varies साथ  geographic location .
Human height is the  अलहदा इससे the नीचे of the फीट to the शीर्ष of the सिर in  a human body , standing erect .
When  populations share जेनेटिक पृष्ठभूमि और पर्यावरणीय कारकों  , average height is frequently characteristic within the group .
Exceptional height  विभिन्नता ( around 20 % विचलन इससे औसत ) भीतर ऐसे a जनसांख्यिकी is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism , जिससे हैं चिकित्सा शर्तें caused by विशिष्ट  genes or endocrine abnormalities .
in regions of चरम गरीबी or prolonged warfare , पर्यावरणीय कारकों जैसे दीर्घकालिक कुपोषण दौरान बाल्यकाल or किशोरावस्था may खाता लिये विलम्बित विकास and/or ( in  severe cases ) marked reductions in adult stature even without the presence of any of these medical conditions .
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the  पहला इंसानो , अमेरिकी neil आर्मस्ट्रांग और बज़ एल्ड्रिन , on the चंद्रमा on जुलाई 20 , 1969  , at 20:18 UTC .
Armstrong became the first to step onto  the चंद्र सतह 6 घंटों बाद on जुलाई 21 at 02:56 utc  .
Armstrong  खर्च परिचय दो और a हाफ घंटों बाहर the spacecraft , एल्ड्रिन थोड़ा कम ; और साथ  they collected of lunar material for return to Earth .
A third member of the mission , Michael Collins , piloted the command spacecraft alone in lunar orbit  जबतक आर्मस्ट्रांग और एल्ड्रिन लौटे to it बस अंतर्गत a दिन बाद लिये the ट्रिप वापस  to Earth .
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center in Merritt Island ,  फ्लोरिडा on जुलाई 16 , अपोलो 11 थी the पांचवां मानवयुक्त मिशन of नासा 's अपोलो कार्यक्रम  .
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin  लिये the तीन astronauts जिससे थी the तभी भाग जिससे उतरा वापस on धरती ; a सेवा मोड्यूल जिससे समर्थित the कमांड मोड्यूल साथ नोदन , विद्युत  power , oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon .
After being sent to the Moon by the  शनि v 's अपर स्टेज , the astronauts अलग the spacecraft इससे  it and travelled for three days until they entered into lunar orbit .
Armstrong and  एल्ड्रिन तब स्थानांतरित into the चंद्र मोड्यूल और उतरा  in the Sea of Tranquility .
They stayed a  कुल of परिचय 21 और a हाफ घंटों on the  lunar surface .
After lifting off in the upper part of the Lunar Module and  rejoining कॉलिन्स in the कमांड मोड्यूल , वे लौटे to धरती और उतरा in the प्रशांत समंदर on जुलाई  24 .
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience , Armstrong stepped onto  the चंद्र सतह और वर्णित the इवेंट as `` एक छोटी कदम लिये [ a ] man , एक दानव छलांग लिये mankind  . ''
अपोलो 11 effectively ended the स्पेस रेस और fulfilled a नेशनल लक्ष्य प्रस्तावित in 1961 by the लेट u.S. अध्यक्ष जॉन F. कैनेडी in a वाक पहले the संयुक्त राज्य  Congress , `` before this decade is out , of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth . ''
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association  फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de  Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since  the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930 , मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं आयोजित क्युकी of the दूसरी  World War .
The  वर्तमान champions हैं स्पेन , जो  won the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the tournament  involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय  a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which  फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो , is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ  with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19  संसार कप tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ अलग  national teams .
Brazil have won five  टाइम्स , और वे हैं the तभी टोली  to have played in every tournament .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four titles ; Germany , with three titles ; Argentina and  inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे , साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड , फ़्रांस , और स्पेन , साथ एक शीर्षक प्रत्येक  .
The World  कप is the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1  million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted  by ब्राज़ील in 2014 , रूस in 2018 , और क़तर  in 2022 .
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by Raphael Lemkin to  describe the deliberate और व्यवस्थित विनाश , in पूरे or in भाग , of an जातीय , जातिगत  , religious , or national group .
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of  नरसंहार ( cppcg ) of 1948 as `` कोई of the following अधिनियमों वचनबद्ध साथ intent to नष्ट , in पूरे or in भाग , a नेशनल , ethnical , जातिगत or धार्मिक समूह , as ऐसे : हत्या सदस्यों of the समूह ; causing गंभीर bodily or दिमागी नुक़सान to सदस्यों of the समूह ; deliberately inflicting on the समूह शर्तें of जीवन , गणना  to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of the group to another group . ''
Skulls  of पीड़ितों of the rwandan  Genocide
The preamble to the CPPCG not only states that `` genocide is a crime under international law ,  contrary to the स्पिरिट और aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और condemned by the civilized संसार '' , लकिन भी कि `` at सब अवधि of इतिहास नरसंहार रै inflicted ग्रेट नुकसान  on humanity '' .
Determining what historical events constitute a  नरसंहार और जिससे हैं merely दण्ड or अमानवीय बर्ताव is नहीं  a clear-cut matter .
In nearly every case where accusations of genocide have circulated , partisans of various sides  have fiercely विवादित the निर्वचन और विवरण of the इवेंट , प्रायः to the पाइंट of promoting wildly अलग  versions of the facts .
an accusation of नरसंहार is कतई नहीं लिया  lightly and will almost always be controversial .
The following list  of genocides और कथित genocides चाहिए be समझा in इस कॉन्टेक्स्ट और can नहीं be regarded  as the final word on these subjects .
A timing belt is a non-slipping mechanical  ड्राइव बेल्ट और the पद may refer to either:
Toothed belt , a flexible  बेल्ट साथ दांत moulded onto इसके  inner surface
Timing belt (  camshaft ) , a toothed बेल्ट प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव the camshaft  ( s ) within an internal combustion engine
The culture of the United States is  primarily a पश्चिमी संस्कृति , लकिन is भी बहकावे by देशी अमरीकी , अफ़्रीकी , एशियाई  , Polynesian , and Latin American cultures .
American culture started its formation over 10,000 years ago  साथ the माइग्रेशन of paleo-indians इससे एशिया into the प्रदेश कि is आज the महाद्वीपीय  United States .
It has its  अपना अद्वितीय सोशल और सांस्कृतिक विशेषताएँ ऐसे as dialect , म्यूज़िक , कला , सोशल  habits , cuisine , and folklore .
The United States  of अमेरिका is an ethnically और racially विविध देश as a परिणाम of large-scale आव्रजन  from many different countries throughout its history .
Its chief early European influences came from English  , स्कॉटिश , वेल्श और आयरिश settlers of औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका दौरान अंग्रेजों  rule .
British culture , due to colonial ties with Britain that  स्प्रेड the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा , विधिक प्रणाली और अन्य सांस्कृतिक inheritances , था  a formative influence .
Other important influences came from  अन्य भाग of पश्चिमी यूरोपीय , विशेषकर जर्मनी , फ़्रांस , और इटली  .
Original  तत्व भी खेल a दमदार भूमिका , ऐसे as the आविष्कार  of Jeffersonian democracy .
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was perhaps  the पहला influential घरेलू सांस्कृतिक critique by an अमरीकी और a प्रतिक्रियावादी टुकड़ा to the प्रचलित यूरोपीय सर्वसम्मति कि अमेरिका 's घरेलू मौलिकता थी  degenerate .
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically , such as national holidays , uniquely American  खेल , सैन्य परंपरा , और नवप्रवर्तनों in the कला और entertainment दे a दमदार भाव of नेशनल अभिमान among the  population as a whole .
American  संस्कृति शामिल दोनो रूढ़िवादी और उदार तत्व , वैज्ञानिक और धार्मिक प्रतिस्पर्धात्मकता , राजनैतिक structures  , risk taking and free expression , materialist and moral elements .
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g . individualism ,  समतावाद , और आस्था in स्वतंत्रता और लोकतंत्र ) , अमरीकी संस्कृति रै a किस्में of expressions due to इसके भौगोलिक स्केल और जनसांख्यिकी  diversity .
The flexibility  of u.S. संस्कृति और इसके अत्यधिक सांकेतिक प्रकृति सीसे कुछ शोधकर्ताओं to categorize  American culture as a mythic identity ; others see it as American exceptionalism .
It also includes elements that evolved from Indigenous Americans , and other ethnic  cultures—most prominently the संस्कृति of अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी , संस्कृतियों इससे लैटिन अमेरिका , और एशियाई अमरीकी संस्कृतियों  .
Many  अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक तत्व , विशेषकर इससे लोकप्रिय संस्कृति , have स्प्रेड आरपार  the globe through modern mass media .
The United States has often been thought of as a  melting घट , लकिन शुरूआत in the लेट 1990s और जल्दी 2000s , it रुझान towards सांस्कृतिक विविधता  , pluralism and the image of a salad bowl instead .
Due to the extent of American  संस्कृति , वहीँ हैं अनेक एकीकृत लकिन अद्वितीय सोशल subcultures भीतर the  United States .
The  सांस्कृतिक संबद्धों an व्यक्तिगत in the संयुक्त राज्य may have commonly निर्भर on सोशल क्लास , राजनैतिक अभिविन्यास और a multitude  of demographic characteristics such as religious background , occupation and ethnic group membership .
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : ) is  the भाषा of the samoan आइलैंड्स , comprising the स्वतंत्र देश of समोआ और the संयुक्त राज्य  territory of American Samoa .
It  is an आधिकारिक language—alongside अंग्रेज़ी  —in both jurisdictions .
samoan , a पोलिनेशियाई भाषा , is the पहला भाषा लिये सबसे of the समोआ  Islands ' population of about 246,000 .
With many Samoan people  जीना in अन्य देशों , the कुल क्रमांक of अध्यक्षों विश्वव्यापी  is estimated at 370,000 .
The  भाषा is notable लिये the phonological मतभेद  between formal and informal speech as well as a ceremonial form used in Samoan oratory .
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test  in जिससे ग्लूकोज is दिए और रक्त नमूने लिया afterward to determine कैसा जल्दी it is  cleared from the blood .
The  परीक्षण is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to परीक्षण लिये मधुमेह , इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध , और sometimes प्रतिक्रिया  hypoglycemia and acromegaly , or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism .
In the most commonly performed version of  the परीक्षण , an मौखिक ग्लूकोज सहिष्णुता परीक्षण ( ogtt ) , a मानक खुराक of ग्लूकोज is ingested by मुँह  and blood levels are checked two hours later .
Many variations of the GTT have  महरूम devised over the सालो लिये विभिन्न उद्देश्य , साथ अलग मानक doses of ग्लूकोज , अलग रूट of प्रशासन , अलग intervals और  durations of sampling , and various substances measured in addition to blood glucose .
`` What About Me '' is a song written by Garry Frost  और frances swan , पहला अंकित by ऑस्ट्रेलियाई चट्टान बैंड चलती तस्वीरें इससे उनके  album Days of Innocence .
it थी the बैंड 's पहला number-one सिंगल in ऑस्ट्रेलिया बिता छह लगातार  weeks on the top ; there , it was the second-highest selling single of 1982 .
The success of the song  led उन्हें to अमेरिका जहाँ it became a hit , reaching # 29 on  the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
The song stayed in  the u.S. चार्ट लिये ऐसे a long समय कि it प्रबंधित to मेक billboards शीर्ष 100 पॉप singles of 1983 , at #  88 , a rare feat for a single with such a low peak position .
The song made an unusual  वापसी in 1989 , peaking at # 46  .
On the left a chicken egg , the egg  सबसे commonly खाया by इंसानो , और  on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many different  प्रजाति , सहित पक्षियों , सरीसृपों , amphibians , और मछली , और have महरूम खाया by mankind लिये हज़ारों  of years .
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell , albumen ( egg  श्वेत ) , और vitellus ( अंडा yolk ) , contained भीतर विभिन्न पतला झिल्लियों  .
Popular choices for egg consumption are  मुर्गा , बतख , बटेर , roe , और caviar , लकिन the अंडा सबसे प्रायः खपत by इंसानो is the मुर्गा अंडा , by a चौड़ी हाशिया .
Egg yolks and  पूरे अंडे स्टोर significant amounts of प्रोटीन और choline  , and are widely used in cookery .
Due to their protein  सामग्री , the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) categorizes अंडे  as Meats within the Food Guide Pyramid .
Despite the nutritional value  of अंडे , वहीँ हैं कुछ संभावित स्वास्थ्य मुद्दे arising इससे अंडा विशेषता , भंडार  , and individual allergies .
मुर्गियों और अन्य egg-laying जीव हैं widely रखा throughout the  world , and mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry .
In 2009 , an estimated 62.1 million metric tons of  अंडे यहूद उत्पादित विश्वव्यापी इससे a कुल लेटा झुण्ड of लगभग  6.4 billion hens .
There are  मुद्दे of क्षेत्रीय विभिन्नता in माँग और अपेक्षा , as खूब as वर्तमान debates concerning विधि of द्रव्यमान उत्पादन  , with the European Union 's ban on battery farming of chickens .
Major League Soccer  ( mls ) is a पेशेवर सॉकर लीग representing the खेल 's  highest level in the United States and Canada .
Sanctioned  by the संयुक्त राज्य सॉकर संघ ( u.S. सॉकर ) , the लीग is रचित  of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada .
Seasons  presently चलाएं इससे कूच to दिसम्बर , साथ प्रत्येक टोली playing 34 खेल  in the regular season .
Ten teams compete in the  postseason mls कप playoffs culminating in the चैंपियनशिप खेल , the mls कप  .
Major  लीग सॉकर थी संस्थापित in 1993 as भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य '  bid to host the 1994 FIFA World Cup .
The first  ऋतु took प्लेस in 1996 शुरूआत  with ten teams .
Instead  of ऑपरेटिंग as an संघ of independently स्वामित्व टीमों , mls is a सिंगल एंटिटी जहाँ प्रत्येक  team is owned and controlled by the league 's investors .
The league 's  बंद सदस्यता makes it एक of the संसार 's few सॉकर  leagues not using promotion and relegation .
The  वैधता of कैनबिस varies इससे  country to country .
Possession of cannabis is  illegal in सबसे देशों और रै महरूम चूंकि the शुरूआत of  widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s .
However , many countries have decriminalized  the कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस , विशेषकर in उत्तर अमेरिका , दक्षिण अमेरिका  and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of  कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय विधि , जिससे governs  persons in all states .
The  औषधीय उपयोग of कैनबिस is विधिक in a क्रमांक of देशों , सहित कनाडा  , the Czech Republic and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale  और कब्ज़ा of कैनबिस , प्रवर्तन varies widely at the राज्य स्तर और कुछ राज्य have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि खण्डन संघीय विधि ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have  repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as  अन्य लकिन , अलावा इससे the देशों कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम to चिकित्सा मारिजुआना , सबसे देशों have विभिन्न दंड ranging इससे lenient  to very severe .
Some infractions  हैं लिया अधिक seriously in कुछ देशों than अन्य in लिहाज़ to the cultivation , उपयोग , कब्ज़ा  or transfer of cannabis for recreational use .
A few  jurisdictions have lessened दंड लिये कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities  of cannabis , making it punishable by confiscation and a fine , rather than imprisonment .
Some  क्षेत्राधिकारs/ ड्रग न्यायालयों उपयोग अनिवार्य उपचार कार्यक्रम लिये यंग or बारंबार उपयोक्ता , साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as  the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
There are also  परिवर्तन in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक दिशा as  in Canada .
Drug tests to  detect कैनबिस हैं increasingly आम in अनेक देशों  and have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs .
However ,  सरल कब्ज़ा can carry long कारावास वाक्य in कुछ देशों , विशेषकर in भाग  of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution .
In  cardiovascular physiology , ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the आयतनी भिन्न  of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle .
It  can be लागू to either the सही ventricle जिससे ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the  pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
Imaging of the  physiology of the mammalian दिल is the आर्ट  that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a  विश्वव्यापी यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of हृदय प्रदर्शन reproducibly  and inexpensively .
Simplified , Ejection  भिन्न is a गणितीय उत्पाद अनुमत by हृदय  imaging .
As a mathematical term , Ejection Fraction is an  एक्सटेंशन of the कार्य of एडाल्फ फिक in हृदय आउटपुट .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography , Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA  स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding ischemia , जन्मजात  Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state highway in the U.S. state of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , largely in the mojave मरुस्थल  .
The southern portion of the  राजमार्ग is हस्ताक्षरित as the antelope घाटी फ्रीवे  .
The  रूट connects अंतरराज्यीय 5 , or सुनहरी राज्य फ्रीवे , निकट सांता clarita  and with U.S. Route 395 near Inyokern .
Legislatively , the route extends south  of i-5 to राज्य रूट 1 in the प्रशांत palisades क्षेत्रफल of लॉस एंजिल्स , however the portion दक्षिण of the जंक्शन साथ  I-5 has not been constructed .
The southern part of  the constructed रूट is a व्यस्त commuter फ्रीवे सेवारत और connecting the समुदायों of  Santa Clarita , Palmdale and Lancaster with the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area .
The northern portion ,  इससे विंसेंट ( दक्षिण of palmdale ) to रूट 395 , is legislatively नामित the aerospace राजमार्ग , as the राजमार्ग serves एडवर्ड्स एयर फ़ोर्स  Base , once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle .
This  खण्ड is ग्रामीण , following the लकीर between the hot mojave मरुस्थल और  the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range .
Most  of रूट 14 is loosely paralleled by a प्रमुख लकीर of the दक्षिणी प्रशांत रेलरोड , प्रयुक्त लिये the antelope  Valley Line of the Metrolink commuter rail system as well as a connection between Los Angeles and the California Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass .
Linked with US  395 , इस सड़क connects लॉस एंजिल्स साथ ऐसे स्थान as मैमथ पहाड़ , मोनो  Lake , Yosemite National Park and Reno , Nevada .
Route 14 was part of U.S. Route 6  prior to truncation in 1964 , जब u.S. 6 थी  a coast-to-coast route from Long Beach to Provincetown , Massachusetts .
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from Silver Queen Road  उत्तर of rosamond to mojave is ज्ञात as सिएरा राजमार्ग , as is the बूढ़ा रूटिंग between अंतरराज्यीय 5 और चांदी महारानी सड़क जहाँ sr 14 रै महरूम  moved to a newer freeway alignment .
Portions of Route 14 remain signed with  names संबद्ध साथ us 6 , सहित मिडलैंड ट्रेल , थियोडोर  Roosevelt Highway and Grand Army of the Republic Highway .
This route is part of  the कैलिफ़ोर्निया फ्रीवे और  Expressway System .
दृष्टिहीनता is the कंडीशन of lacking विज़ुअल बोध due to physiological  or neurological factors .
Various scales have been developed to describe  the extent of दृष्टि घाटा और define दृष्टिहीनता  .
कुल दृष्टिहीनता is the पूरा कमी of रूप और विज़ुअल लाइट बोध और is clinically अंकित  as NLP , an abbreviation for `` no light perception . ''
Blindness is  अक्सर प्रयुक्त to describe कठोर विज़ुअल  impairment with vision .
Those described as having only light perception have no more sight  than the क्षमता to बताना लाइट इससे अंधेरा और the सामान्य दिशा of a लाइट सोर्स  .
To determine which people may need special assistance because of their visual  disabilities , विभिन्न सरकारी jurisdictions have प्रतिपादित अधिक जटिल परिभाषाएं referred to  as legal blindness .
in उत्तर अमेरिका और सबसे of यूरोपीय , विधिक दृष्टिहीनता is पारिभाषित  as visual acuity ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible .
This means that a legally blind individual would have to stand from an object to see  it—with corrective lenses —with the वही उपाधि of स्पष्टता as a सामान्यतः sighted व्यक्ति could इससे  .
In many areas , people with average acuity who nonetheless  have a विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड of कम than 20 डिग्री ( the norm होने 180 डिग्री )  are also classified as being legally blind .
Approximately ten percent of those deemed  legally अँधा , by कोई माप , have no दृष्टि  .
the बाकी have कुछ दृष्टि , इससे लाइट बोध  alone to relatively good acuity .
Low vision is sometimes  प्रयुक्त to describe विज़ुअल acuities इससे 20/70  to 20/200 .
By the  10th संशोधन of the जो अंतरराष्ट्रीय सांख्यिकीय वर्गीकरण of रोगों , चोटों और कल्याणकारी of मौत , कम दृष्टि is पारिभाषित as विज़ुअल तीक्ष्णता of कम than 20/60 ( 6/18 ) , लकिन  equal to or better than 20/200 ( 6/60 ) , or corresponding visual field loss to less than 20 degrees , in the better eye with best possible correction .
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ) , or corresponding  विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड घाटा to कम than 10 डिग्री , in the बेहतर नजर साथ बेहतरीन संभावित सुधार  .
Blind people with  undamaged आँखें may स्टिल पंजीकरण लाइट non-visually लिये the purpose of circadian  entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle .
Light signals for this purpose travel through the  retinohypothalamic ट्रैक्ट और हैं नहीं प्रभावित by ऑप्टिक तंत्रिका क्षति परे जहाँ the retinohypothalamic ट्रैक्ट exits  .
Earl Simmons ( born December 18 , 1970 ) ,  बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज names dmx और अंधेरा man x , is an अमरीकी  rapper and actor .
In 1999 , DMX released  उसके best-selling एल्बम ... और तब वहीँ थी x , जिससे प्रदर्शित the hit सिंगल `` पार्टी  Up ( Up in Here ) `` .
He has  acted in films ऐसे as पेट , रोमियो जरूर die , निकास wounds , पालना  2 The Grave , and Last Hour .
In 2006 , he starred in  the वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी , जिससे थी primarily aired on the शर्त केबल टेलीविज़न संजाल  .
In 2003  , dmx प्रकाशित a किताब of उसके memoirs हकदार ,  E.A.R.L . : The Autobiography of DMX .
DMX released a mixtape The Weigh In as a  prelude/promotion towards उसके एल्बम undisputed ( 2012  ) .
DMX has  बेची over 30 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी , बनाना उसे एक of the best-selling  hip-hop artists of all time .
Professional  प्रमाणन , व्यापार प्रमाणन , or पेशेवर नामांकन , प्रायः पुकारा बस प्रमाणन or योग्यता , is a नामांकन  earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task .
Not all  certifications कि उपयोग post-nominal अक्षर हैं an स्वीकृति of शैक्षणिक  achievement , or an agency appointed to safeguard the public interest .
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal cartoon character ,  बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ in the looney धुनें और merrie melodies श्रेणी of नाट्य छोटी films उत्पादित  by Warner Bros. during the Golden age of American animation .
His popularity during this era led to his becoming a  कॉरपोरेट शुभंकर of warner भाईs. entertainment .
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray  हरे or खरगोश जो is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके flippant , व्यक्तित्व , a सुनाया नई यॉर्क  accent , his portrayal as a trickster , and his catch phrase `` Eh ...
कया 's up , दस्तावेज़  ? ''
( usually said  जबकि चबाने a गाजर  ) .
Bugs has appeared in more films  than कोई अन्य कार्टून अक्षर और is the नवीं सबसे portrayed फिल्मी  personality in the world .
According to his 1990 `` biography '' Bugs Bunny : 50  सालो और तभी एक धूसर हरे , बग थी born on जुलाई 27 , 1940 in ब्रुकलीन , नई यॉर्क in a वारेन अंतर्गत ebbets फ़ील्ड , घर of the ब्रुकलीन डॉजर्स  .
In reality , he was  brought to जीवन by the animators और स्टाफ of लिओन schlesinger प्रोडक्शन्स ( बाद warner भाईs. cartoons ) : सहित टेक्स एवेरी , जो निर्देशित बग ' जल्दी निर्णायक छोटी a जंगली  Hare ( 1940 ) ; Robert McKimson , who created Bugs ' definitive character design ; and Mel Blanc , who originated the voice of Bugs .
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or  mucosas ; एकवचन mucosa ) हैं linings of ज़्यादातर endodermal उत्पत्ति , covered in epithelium , जिससे हैं शामिल in अवशोषण और स्राव  .
They line  कैविटी कि हैं उजागर to the बाह्य पर्यावरण और आतंरिक  organs .
They are at several places contiguous with skin  : at the नथुनों , the होठ of the मुँह , the eyelids , the कानों , the genital  area , and the anus .
The sticky ,  मोटा द्रव स्रावित by the श्लेष्मक झिल्लियों  and glands is termed mucus .
The term mucous membrane refers to where  वे हैं मिला in the देह और नहीं प्रत्येक श्लेष्मक झिल्ली secretes mucus  .
The glans clitoridis , glans penis ( head of  the शिश्न ) , साथ साथ the अंदर of the अग्रत्वचा और the clitoral हुड , हैं  mucous membranes .
The  urethra is भी a श्लेष्मक झिल्ली  .
The secreted mucus  फंदा the pathogens in the  body , preventing any further activities of diseases .
A  निपुण सार्जेंट is the सैन्य रैंक लिये a वरिष्ठ non-commissioned  officer in some armed forces .
Cake is a form of bread  or bread-like खाना  .
In its  आधुनिक फ़ॉर्म , it is typically a मीठी  baked dessert .
In  इसके oldest फ़ॉर्म , cakes यहूद सामान्यतः fried breads or  cheesecakes , and normally had a disk shape .
Determining  whether a दिए खाना चाहिए be वर्गीकृत as ब्रैड , केक , or  pastry can be difficult .
Modern cake , especially layer cakes , normally contain a combination of flour , sugar , eggs , and  मक्खन or आयल , साथ कुछ किस्में भी requiring द्रव ( typically मिल्क or जल ) और leavening एजेंटों ( ऐसे as खमीर  or baking powder ) .
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées , nuts , dried or candied fruit , or  extracts हैं प्रायः added , और numerous substitutions लिये the प्राथमिक संघटक  are possible .
Cakes are often filled with fruit  preserves or मिठाई sauces ( जैसे पेस्ट्री मलाई ) , आइस्ड साथ buttercream or अन्य icings , और सजा साथ  marzipan , piped borders or candied fruit .
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at  ceremonial अवसरों , विशेषकर विवाह , वर्षगांठ , और जन्मदिन  .
There  हैं अनगिनत केक व्यंजनों ; कुछ हैं bread-like , कुछ समृद्ध  and elaborate , and many are centuries old .
Cake  बनाना is no longer a जटिल कार्यविधि ; जबकि at एक समय considerable मजदूर गई into केक बनाना ( विशेषकर the whisking of अंडा  foams ) , baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur cook may bake a cake .
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7 , 1942 – July 20 , 2007 ) was an American  ईसाई सिंगर , इंजीलवादी , उद्योगों , लेखक , बात दिखाएँ मेजबान , और टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व  .
वो थी शादीशुदा इससे 1961 to 1992 to televangelist  , and later convicted felon , Jim Bakker .
She co-hosted with him on The  ptl क्लबों ( 1976–1987  ) .
She  थी a भागीदार in the 2004 ऋतु of the  reality show The Surreal Life .
cambria is a गाँव in कोलंबिया  County , Wisconsin , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 767 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
It is  भाग of the मैडिसन महानगर  Statistical Area .
Public policy is the principled guide to action  लिया by the प्रशासनिक कार्यपालिका शाखाओं of the राज्य साथ लिहाज़ to a क्लास of मुद्दे  in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs .
In general , the foundation is  the pertinent नेशनल और substantial संवैधानिक  law and implementing legislation such as the US Federal code .
Further substrates include both judicial interpretations and  regulations जिससे हैं generally प्राधिकृत by विधान  .
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of action , regulatory measures , laws , and  funding प्राथमिकताएं concerning a दिए टॉपिक promulgated by a सरकारी एंटिटी or इसके प्रतिनिधि  . ''
Public policy is  commonly समाविष्ट `` in constitutions , विधान  acts , and judicial decisions . ''
In the  संयुक्त राज्य , इस अवधारणा refers नहीं तभी to the परिणाम of नीतियों , लकिन अधिक broadly  to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions .
As an academic  अनुशासन , पब्लिक नीति is पढ़ाई by professors और विद्यार्थी at पब्लिक नीति  schools of major universities throughout the country .
The U.S. professional  संघ of पब्लिक नीति practitioners , शोधकर्ताओं , विद्वानों , और विद्यार्थी is the संघ लिये  Public Policy Analysis and Management .
Digestion is the  mechanical और रासायनिक विश्लेषण of खाना into छोटी components कि हैं अधिक easily  absorbed into a blood stream , for instance .
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a  विश्लेषण of विशाल खाना अणुओं to छोटी  ones .
When food enters the mouth , digestion  of the खाना starts by the कार्रवाई of mastication , a रूप of mechanical पाचन , और the wetting सम्पर्क of लार  .
Saliva , a liquid secreted by the salivary glands ,  contains salivary amylase , an एंजाइम जिससे starts the पाचन  of starch in the food .
After undergoing  mastication और मंड पाचन , the खाना होगा be in the रूप of a छोटी  , round slurry mass called a bolus .
It  होगा तब सफर bas the ग्रासनाल और into the पेट  by the action of peristalsis .
gastric रस in the पेट starts प्रोटीन  digestion .
gastric रस मुख्यतः contains हाइड्रोक्लोरिक  acid and pepsin .
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach  वॉल , mucus is स्रावित by the पेट , providing a slimy परत कि अधिनियमों as a शील्ड  against the damaging effects of the chemicals .
At the same time protein  पाचन is occurring , mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis , जिससे हैं लहरें of muscular contractions कि  move along the stomach wall .
This  allows the द्रव्यमान of खाना to further मिक्सर साथ  the digestive enzymes .
After some time ( typically an  घंटा or दो in इंसानो , 4–6 घंटों in कुत्तो , somewhat shorter अवधि in हाउस बिल्लियों  ) , the resulting thick liquid is called chyme .
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens , chyme enters the  duodenum जहाँ it mixes साथ digestive एंजाइमों इससे the अग्न्याशय , और तब गुजरता through the छोटी  intestine , in which digestion continues .
When the  chyme is fully पचता , it is अवशोषित  into the blood .
95 % of  अवशोषण of nutrients occurs in the  small intestine .
Water  और खनिज हैं reabsorbed वापस into the रक्त in the कोलन ( विशाल आंत ) जहाँ  the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9 .
Some vitamins , such as  biotin और विटामिन k ( k2mk7 ) उत्पादित by जीवाणु in the कोलन हैं भी  absorbed into the blood in the colon .
Waste material is eliminated  इससे the मलाशय दौरान शौच  .
Henry VIII  ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) थी किंग of  England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later king , of Ireland , as well  as continuing the नाममात्र अर्जी by the अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to  the Kingdom of France .
Henry was  the दूसरी monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश  , succeeding his father , Henry VII .
Besides his six  विवाह , हेनरी viii is ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका in the विरह of the गिरिजाघर  of England from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry 's struggles with  रोम led to the विरह of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal प्राधिकार , the विच्छेद of the monasteries , और उसके  own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
Yet he remained a believer  in कोर कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं , भी बाद उसके excommunication  from the Roman Catholic Church .
हेनरी oversaw the विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ  the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542 .
In 1513 , the new  किंग अलाइड साथ the पावन रोमन सम्राट , maximillian i , और invaded फ़्रांस in  1513 with a large , well-equipped army , but achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
Maximillian , for his part , used the English  आक्रमण to उसके अपना ends , और इस prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता to  defeat the French .
This  foray होता prove the प्रारंभ of an obsession  for Henry , who invaded again in 1544 .
This  समय , हेनरी 's शक्तियां captured the महत्वपूर्ण नगर of boulogne , लकिन again the पावन रोमन सम्राट , चार्ल्स v , समर्थित हेनरी तभी as long as he needed to और इंग्लैण्ड  , strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
His contemporaries  माना हेनरी in उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक , शिक्षित और संपन्नता किंग , और he रै  been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling with  निरपेक्ष शक्ति , he भी सगाई खुद  as an author and composer .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and  partly क्युकी he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और the नाजुक सलाम कि existed following the युद्धों of the गुलाब  – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became  रुग्ण मोटे और उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered , contributing to उसके  death in 1547 .
He is frequently  characterised in उसके बाद जीवन as a lustful , egotistical  , harsh , and insecure king .
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are  an afro-cuban percussion यंत्र  .
The  ड्रम हैं of अलग आकार : the larger ढोल is पुकारा in स्पेनी  the hembra ( female ) and the smaller the macho ( male ) .
वे हैं membranophones , or यंत्र कि बनाएँ ध्वनि  by a vibration of a stretched membrane .
अलग धार्मिक समूह शामिल अलग किताबे in उनके biblical canons , in varying आदेश , और  sometimes divide or combine books , or incorporate additional material into canonical books .
Christian  bibles दायरा इससे the sixty-six किताबे of the प्रोटोस्टेंट  canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon .
The Hebrew Bible , or Tanakh ,  contains twenty-four किताबे विभाजित into तीन भाग ; the पाँच किताबे of the  Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ) , the Nevi'im ( `` prophets '' ) , and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ) .
The first part of Christian  bibles is the बूढ़ा वसीयत , जिससे contains , at न्यूनतम , the twenty-four किताबे of the यहूदी बाइबल विभाजित into  thirty-nine books and ordered differently from the Hebrew Bible .
The Catholic Church and Eastern  ईसाई चर्च भी थाम निश्चित deuterocanonical किताबे और passages to be भाग of the बूढ़ा  Testament canon .
The second part is the New Testament , containing  twenty-seven किताबे ; the चार canonical gospels , अधिनियमों of the रसूलों , twenty-one epistles or अक्षर और the  Book of Revelation .
The Eastern Orthodox ,  प्राच्य परंपरागत और पूर्वी कैथोलिक चर्च may have  minor differences in their lists of accepted books .
The list given here for these churches  is the सबसे समावेशी : if at तनिक एक पूर्वी गिरिजाघर स्वीकृत the किताब  it is included here .
The national flag of the United States  of अमेरिका , प्रायः बस referred to as the अमरीकी ध्वज , consists of तेरह बराबर आड़ा धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ श्वेत , साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ ''  ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50  सितारों on the ध्वज represent the 50 राज्य of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका और the 13 धारियाँ represent the तेरह  British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag  शामिल the `` सितारों और धारियाँ '' , `` बूढ़ा महिमा `` , और  `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
Dred Scott v.  sandford , , भी ज्ञात as the dred स्कॉट निर्णय , थी a लैंडमार्क निर्णय  by the U.S. Supreme Court .
It made  दो प्रमुख rulings  .
The first ruling was that African-Americans were  नहीं नागरिकों , और इसलिए था no खड़ा to मुकदमा in संघीय  court .
The second ruling was that the federal government  था no शक्ति to विनियमित गुलामी in कोई territory acquired subsequent to the सृष्टि  of the United States .
Given the first ruling , most scholars and many contemporary political figures ( including the  नेतृत्व of the then-new रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ) माना कि the दूसरी सत्ताधारी थी नहीं बाइंडिंग यही , लकिन mere कहावत  .
The rationale of the Supreme Court  regarding the jurisdictional सत्ताधारी implied कि लोगों of अफ़्रीकी descent ( दोनो स्लेव और फ़्री ) यहूद नहीं सुरक्षित by the संविधान  and were not U.S. citizens .
Since passage of the 14th  amendment to the u.S. संविधान , दोनो rulings हैं superseded और no longer मान्य  precedent .
Nonetheless , the case retains historical significance  as it is widely regarded as the worst निर्णय कभी बना by the  Supreme Court .
The opinion of the court , written by  मुख्य इंसाफ रोजर B. taney ,  stirred debate .
The decision was 7–2 , and every Justice  besides taney लिखा a पृथक concurrence or dissent  .
For the  पहला समय चूंकि marbury v. मैडिसन , the अदालत आयोजित  an Act of Congress to be unconstitutional .
Dred Scott , an African-American slave , had asked a United States Circuit Court to award  उसे उसके स्वतंत्रता क्युकी he और उसके निपुण था resided in a राज्य ( इलिनोइस ) और a territory ( विस्कॉन्सिन  Territory ) where slavery had been banned .
Chief Justice Roger Taney , writing for the  अदालत , आयोजित कि स्कॉट , as a व्यक्ति of अफ़्रीकी ancestry , थी नहीं a नागरिक of the संयुक्त राज्य और इसलिए था no सही  to sue in federal court .
This holding was  contrary to the अभ्यास of numerous राज्य at the समय , विशेषकर फ़्री राज्य , जहाँ  free blacks did in fact enjoy the rights of citizens , such as the right to vote and hold public office .
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum , the  अदालत गई on to थाम कि कॉंग्रेस था no प्राधिकार to prohibit गुलामी in संघीय territories क्युकी स्लेव हैं निजी प्रॉपर्टी और the पांचवां  Amendment to the Constitution protects property owners against deprivation of their property without due process of law .
In reaching this decision , Taney had hoped to settle the  growing विवाद surrounding गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन it था the विपरीत  effect .
The  निर्णय थी fiercely debated आरपार the देश , as शायद बेहतरीन सरंचनाओं by the lincoln–douglas  debates of 1858 .
Abraham Lincoln , the second-ever Republican nominee for President , was able to win the  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव in 1860 ; the stopping of the further  expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank .
The decision played an important role  in the समय of राज्य secession और the सिविल युद्ध , हालांकि it is चरम to कह  the decision `` caused '' the war .
The decision is acknowledged  लिये the influential भूमिका it निभाई in altering the नेशनल राजनैतिक लैंडस्केप : it is credited साथ  launching Abraham Lincoln’s national political career and ultimately allowing for his election .
Although the Supreme Court  रै never explicitly overruled the dred स्कॉट मामला , the अदालत stated in the slaughter-house मामले कि at तनिक एक भाग of it था already महरूम overruled by the fourteenth amendment in 1868 , जिससे begins by stating , `` सब व्यक्तियों born or देशीयकृत  in the United States , and subject to the jurisdiction thereof , are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside . ''
To which  the अदालत नोटd:
The first observation we have to make on this clause is , that it puts  at बाकी दोनो the सवाल जिससे we stated to have महरूम the  subject of differences of opinion .
It declares that persons may be citizens of the United States without regard to  उनके नागरिकता of a particular राज्य , और it overturns the dred स्कॉट निर्णय by बनाना सब व्यक्तियों born भीतर the संयुक्त  States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States .
There  हैं दर्जनों of पड़ोस  in Columbus , Ohio .
Some are hard to define  , as वे encompass विशाल क्षेत्रों विकसित at अलग times—often  with sub-neighborhoods within them .
Borders can also change based  on लोकप्रिय समझना of the क्षेत्रफल , as खूब as  the whims of the residents .
This article uses data from the Datasourcecolumbus Web site  , spotcrime.com , hellocolumbus.com , as खूब as the विभिन्न कोलंबस क्षेत्रफल आयोग to define the विभिन्न  areas .
Excerpts and border  सूचना हैं drawn सीधे इससे the प्रमुख  articles .
A biologist is a scientist who studies living organisms and  उनके संबंध to उनके पर्यावरण .
Biologists involved in basic  शोध attempt to discover underlying mechanisms कि  govern how organisms work .
Biologists involved in applied research  attempt to develop or improve चिकित्सा , औद्योगिक or  agricultural processes .
martinus विलेम beijerinck , a वनस्पतिशास्त्री  and microbiologist
Base jumping from a  चट्टान in a wingsuit  .
BASE  कूद , भी sometimes लिखा as b.a.s.e . कूद , is an कार्यकलाप  where participants jump from fixed objects and use a parachute to break their fall .
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for four  श्रेणी of फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ इससे जिससे एक can जम्प : इमारतें , एन्टेना , spans ( पुलों ) , और धरती  ( cliffs ) .
The British Shorthair  is a domesticated बिल्ली जिनकी सुविधाएँ मेक it a लोकप्रिय नस्ल  in cat shows .
It  रै महरूम the सबसे लोकप्रिय नस्ल of बिल्ली पंजीकृत by the uk 's शासी परिषद  of the Cat Fancy ( GCCF ) since 2001 , when it overtook the Persian breed .
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team , commonly known as the United States men 's national  बास्केट टोली , represents the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका in अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन  's basketball .
The USA is the most successful team  in अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिता , जीतना medals in सब सत्रह ओलम्पिक  tournaments it has entered , coming away with fourteen golds .
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as teams  in अगस्त 2010—the 1960 टोली , जिससे प्रदर्शित छह हॉल of famers ( 4 खिलाड़ी , 2 कोच  ) , and the 1992 `` Dream Team '' , featuring 14 Hall of Famers ( 11 players , 3 coaches ) .
The United States  is फिलहाल क्रमित पहला in the fiba संसार  Rankings .
Traditionally composed of amateur players , a 1989 rule  बदलें by fiba अनुमत यूएसए बास्केट to फ़ील्ड टीमों  with professional players .
The first such team , known as the `` Dream Team '' , won the gold  पदक at the 1992 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक in बार्सिलोना , स्पेन , playing  in the final against Croatia .
साथ the परिचय of पेशेवर , the  team was able to spark a second run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988 .
A team of professional  खिलाड़ी competed at the 1994 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप , finishing  first .
In 1996 , 2000 , 2008  , और 2012 the यूएसए again captured  gold medals .
Facing  increased प्रतियोगिता , the यूएसए विफल to जीत a पदक at the 2002  FIBA World Championship , finishing sixth .
The 2004 Summer  ओलम्पिक टोली खोया तीन खेल on इसके रास्ता to a कांस्य पदक , a रिकार्ड कि represented अधिक नुकसान in a  single year than the country 's Olympic teams had suffered in all previous Olympiads combined .
Determined to put an  समाप्त to ये असफलताओं , यूएसए बास्केट initiated a long-term प्रोजेक्ट aimed  at creating better , more cohesive teams .
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006  fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप in जापानी पहले खोने विरूद्ध यूनानियों in the semi-finals  , ending the competition with the bronze medal .
The USA won gold two  सालो बाद , हालांकि , at the 2008 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक साथ a  dominant performance .
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World Championship , where despite fielding a roster  featuring no खिलाड़ी इससे the 2008 ओलम्पिक टोली , the यूएसए किया नहीं खोना a सिंगल खेल en रूट to defeating मेजबान तुर्कों लिये the  gold medal .
The USA continued this  streak of दबदबा by going अपराजित और capturing सुनहरा एकबार अधिक at the 2012 गर्मियाँ  Olympics .
The  स्टीलर्स सुपर कटोरी  XL ring
जो theismann 's सुपर कटोरी  Ring ( right )
The Super Bowl ring is  an पुरस्कार in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग दिए to the विजेता of the लीग 's  annual World Championship game , the Super Bowl .
Since only one Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team ( ownership ) itself , the Super Bowl ring  offers a collectible memento लिये the वास्तविक खिलाड़ी और टोली सदस्यों to रखना लिये themselves  to symbolize the victory .
Image showing the six most  आम speleothems साथ लेबल्स  .
to  दृश्य लेबल्स .
The Witch 's Finger in  the carlsbad caverns
A stalagmite ( or ;  इससे the यूनानी σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês , इससे σταλαγμίας - stalagmias , `` छोड़ने , trickling '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem कि उदय इससे  the floor of a limestone cave due to the dripping of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate .
इस stalagmite गठन occurs तभी अंतर्गत निश्चित ph शर्तें  within the underground cavern .
The corresponding  गठन on the छत of a गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalactite  .
If these formations grow  साथ , the परिणाम is ज्ञात as a कालम  .
The  हॉल of दिग्गज in the  Carlsbad Caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched , since the rock buildup is formed by minerals  precipitating आउट of the जल समाधान onto the बूढ़ा सतह ; स्किन oils can alter the सतह जहाँ the खनिज जल होगा चिपकी  , thus affecting the growth of the formation .
Oils and dirt from human  सम्पर्क can भी दाग the गठन और बदलें  its color permanently .
Similar  structures can भी रूप in लावा tubes , संबद्ध साथ कुछ प्रकार of lavacicles  , although the mechanism of formation is very different .
Stalactites and  stalagmites can भी रूप on कंक्रीट ceilings और floors , हालांकि वे रूप much अधिक rapidly  there than in the natural cave environment .
The largest stalagmite in the  संसार is ऊँची और is स्तिथ in the गुफा of cueva मार्टिन  Infierno , Cuba .
In the Zagros Mountains of south  इरान , लगभग इससे the प्राचीन नगर of bishapur , in the shapur गुफा on the चौथी of पाँच बरामदा स्टैंड the 3rd सदी ce प्रतिमा of shapur i , दूसरी  ruler of the Sassanid Empire .
the प्रतिमा , carved इससे एक stalagmite  , is nearly high .
How I Met Your  माँ is an अमरीकी sitcom कि premiered on  CBS on September 19 , 2005 .
The show was created by  क्रेग थामस और कार्टर  Bays .
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year  2030 , जब टेड mosby ( voiced by bob saget ) gathers उसके बेटी ( lyndsy fonseca ) और बेटे ( दाउद henrie ) to बताना उन्हें the  story of how he met their mother .
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single , 27-year-old  वास्तु जीना साथ उसके दो बेहतरीन मित्रों इससे wesleyan विश्वविद्यालयों , मार्शल eriksen ( जेसन सेगल ) , a विधि छात्र , और लिली एल्ड्रिन ( alyson हनिंगन ) , a किंडरगार्टन टीचर , जो have महरूम  dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes .
Their engagement causes Ted to think about finding his own soul mate , much to the disgust of his friend  बार्नी stinson ( neil पैट्रिक हैरिस ) , a womanizer साथ an बेनाम कॉरपोरेट  job .
और यूँ , टेड begins उसके ढूंढें लिये उसके पूर्ण mate , और meets रोबिन  Scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders ) , whom he also befriends .
The 100th episode  of कैसा i मिले अपना माँ aired on जनवरी 11  , 2010 .
On December 21  , 2012 , the श्रेणी थी नवीनीकृत लिये  a ninth season .
On January 30 , 2013 , it  थी घोषित कि ऋतु  9 will be its final season .
gringo ( , , ) is a कठबोली स्पेनी और पुर्तगाली शब्द प्रयुक्त in ibero-america  , to denote foreigners , often from the United States .
The term can be applied to someone who is actually a foreigner , or it  can denote a दमदार संघ or सम्मिलन into विदेशी ( विशेषकर us ) समाज  and culture .
in स्पेनी it करता नहीं  have a negative connotation .
Roger  axtell , a सफर तहज़ीब विशेषज्ञ , टीप कि `` [ t ] he शब्द gringo  is not necessarily a bad word .
it is कठबोली लकिन is अपमानजनक तभी in  its use and context . ''
The  शब्द थी प्रयुक्त in स्पेन long पहले it crossed the अटलांटिक  to denote foreign , non-native speakers of Spanish .
The great white shark , Carcharodon carcharias , also  ज्ञात as the ग्रेट श्वेत , श्वेत सूचक , श्वेत शार्क , or श्वेत मौत , is a प्रजाति of विशाल lamniform शार्क जिससे can be मिला in the तटीय  surface waters of all the major oceans .
The great white shark is mainly  ज्ञात लिये इसके आकार , साथ the largest individuals ज्ञात to have approached or exceeded  in length , and in weight .
इस शार्क पहुँच इसके परिपक्वता around  15 years of age and can have a life span of over 30 years .
the ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क is arguably the संसार 's largest ज्ञात extant  macropredatory fish , and is one of the primary predators of marine mammals .
It is  भी ज्ञात to शिकार upon a किस्में of अन्य समुद्री पशु ,  including fish and seabirds .
It is the only known  surviving प्रजाति of इसके genus carcharodon , और is क्रमित  first in having the most attacks on humans .
The IUCN list the great white  शार्क as a vulnerable प्रजाति , जबकि it is शामिल in परिशिष्ट ii  of CITES .
The bestselling  अनोखा जबड़े by पीटर benchley और the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर  film by Steven Spielberg depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious man eater `` .
In reality  , इंसानो हैं नहीं the पसन्दीदा शिकार of the  great white shark .
The  संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां हैं the सैन्य शक्तियां of the संयुक्त  States of America .
They  consist of the फौज , नेवी  , Marine Corps , Air Force , and Coast Guard .
The  u.S. रै a दमदार परंपरा of civilian कंट्रोल  of the military .
The President is the  सैन्य 's overall सिर , और helps रूप सैन्य नीति साथ the u.S. विभाग of रक्षा ( dod ) , a संघीय कार्यपालिका  department , acting as the principal organ by which military policy is carried out .
The DoD is headed by the  सचिव of रक्षा , जो is a civilian और  Cabinet member .
The Defense Secretary is second in the military 's chain of  कमांड , बस नीचे the अध्यक्ष , और serves as the प्रिंसिपल सहायक to the अध्यक्ष  in all DoD-related matters .
to निर्देशांक सैन्य कार्रवाई साथ कूटनीति , the अध्यक्ष रै  an advisory National Security Council headed by a National Security Advisor .
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a  seven-member संयुक्त chiefs of स्टाफ , जिससे शामिल the सिर of प्रत्येक of the रक्षा विभाग 's सेवा शाखाओं as खूब as the मुख्य  of the National Guard Bureau .
Leadership is  provided by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त chiefs of स्टाफ  and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
The Commandant of the Coast  गार्ड is नहीं a सदस्य of the संयुक्त chiefs of  Staff .
All of the branches work together during operations and joint missions , under  the एकीकृत combatant कमांड , अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the सचिव of रक्षा साथ the एक्सेप्शन of the coast  Guard .
The Coast Guard falls  अंतर्गत the प्रशासन of the विभाग of मातृभूमि सुरक्षा और receives इसके operational  orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security .
The  coast गार्ड may be transferred to the विभाग of the नेवी by the  President or Congress during a time of war .
All five armed services are among the seven uniformed services of the  संयुक्त राज्य ; the अन्य हैं the u.S. पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य सेवा commissioned corps और the नेशनल oceanic  and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Corps .
From the time of  इसके inception , the सैन्य निभाई a निर्णायक भूमिका  in the history of the United States .
A sense of national unity and identity was forged as  a परिणाम of विजय in the पहला barbary युद्ध और  the Second Barbary War .
Even so , the  संस्थापकों यहूद संदिग्ध of a स्थाई सैन्य फ़ोर्स और नहीं जबतक the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii किया a  large standing army become officially established .
The National Security Act of 1947 , adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset , created the modern U.S. military framework ; the Act merged previously Cabinet-level Department of War and the Department  of the नेवी into the नेशनल सैन्य स्थापना ( renamed the विभाग of रक्षा in 1949 ) , headed by the सचिव of रक्षा ; और निर्मित the विभाग of the एयर फ़ोर्स और नेशनल सुरक्षा  Council .
The U.S. military is one  of the largest militaries in शर्तें of क्रमांक of कर्मियों  .
It draws its manpower  इससे a विशाल पूल of सशुल्क स्वयंसेवक ; हालांकि conscription रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in the पास्ट in विभिन्न टाइम्स of  both war and peace , it has not been used since 1972 .
As of  2013 , the u.S. खर्च परिचय $ 554.2 अरब annually to निधि इसके सैन्य शक्तियां , और appropriates लगभग $  88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations .
Put together , the U.S.  constitutes roughly 43 प्रतिशत of the संसार 's सैन्य expenditures  .
the u.S. हथियारबंद शक्तियां as a पूरे possess विशाल quantities of उन्नत और शक्तिशाली उपकरण , साथ साथ फैली  placement of forces around the world , giving them significant capabilities in both defense and power projection .
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one 's  देह और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो is willing to प्राप्त  them .
The term freedom of expression  is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously , लकिन शामिल कोई अधिनियम of seeking , receiving और imparting  information or ideas , regardless of the medium used .
In  अभ्यास , the सही to स्वतंत्रता of वाक is नहीं निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं , as साथ मानहानि , बदनामी , obscenity , राजद्रोह (  including , for example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation , revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom  of अभिव्यक्ति is पहचाना as a इंसान सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the सार्वभौमिक घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान अधिकारों विधि in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय वचन on  Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the  सही to थाम राय बगैर हस्तक्षेप '' और `` everyone shall have the सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस सही shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to तलाश , प्राप्त और impart सूचना और  ideas of all kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in writing or in print , in the form of art , or through any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes  on to कह कि the कसरत of ये अधिकारों carries `` खास कर्तव्य और जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी `` [ f ] or आदर of the अधिकारों or प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य  '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of speech may be legally  curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक विधिक प्रणालियों और in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions जहाँ it is मिला to कारण धार्मिक  offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
the बिग बंग  Theory logo .
The Big Bang Theory  is an अमरीकी कॉमेडी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित और कार्यपालिका  produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady .
Like the name of the series itself , with the exception of the first episode—  '' पायलट '' —episode शीर्षक of the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त सदा प्रारंभ साथ `` the '' और resemble the नाम of a वैज्ञानिक principle , सिद्धान्त or प्रयोग , whimsically referencing  a plot point or quirk .
,  133 एपीसोड have  aired .
The  बिग बंग सिद्धान्त रै महरूम नवीनीकृत  for a seventh season .
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced , ;  अक्तूबर 14 , 1890 – कूच 28 , 1969 ) थी the 34th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1953 जबतक  1961 .
He had previously been a five-star general in the United States  फौज दौरान संसार युद्ध ii और परोसा as परम् कमांडर of the अलाइड शक्तियां in यूरोपीय ; he था जिम्मेदारी लिये नियोजन और supervising the आक्रमण of उत्तर अफ़्रीकी in आपरेशन मशाल in 1942–43 और the कामयाब  invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front .
In 1951 , he became the first  परम् कमांडर of नाटो  .
आइज़नहावर थी of पेन्सिलवेनिया डच ancestry और थी reared in  a large family in Kansas by parents with a robust work ethic and religious background .
as एक of छह बेटे , he थी conditioned by a प्रतिस्पर्धी माहौल  which instilled self-reliance .
He attended  और ग्रैजुएट इससे वेस्ट पाइंट और बाद शादीशुदा  and had two sons .
After World War II ,  आइज़नहावर परोसा as फौज मुख्य of स्टाफ अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष हैरी S. ट्रूमैन , तब assumed the पोस्ट  of President at Columbia University .
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race as a Republican to counter the non-interventionism of Senator Robert  A. taft और to crusade विरूद्ध `` साम्यवादी , कोरियाई और भ्रष्टाचार  '' .
He won by a landslide , defeating Democrat  adlai stevenson और समाप्ति दो दशकों of the नई सौदे गठबन्धन  .
In the first  साल of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी , आइज़नहावर अपदस्थ the नेता of इरान in the 1953 ईरानी तख्तापलट d'état और प्रयुक्त नाभिकीय खतरे to conclude  the Korean War with China .
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while  reducing the funding लिये conventional सैन्य शक्तियां ; the लक्ष्य थी to रखना दबाव  on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits .
In 1954 ,  आइज़नहावर पहला articulated the domino सिद्धान्त in उसके वर्णन of the threat प्रस्तुत  by the spread of communism .
The Congress  सहमत to उसके निवेदन in 1955 लिये the formosa रेज़ोल्यूशन , जिससे सक्रिय उसे to prevent  Chinese communist aggression against Chinese nationalists and established the U.S. policy of defending Taiwan .
When the Soviets launched Sputnik in  1957 , he था to खेल catch-up in the स्पेस  race .
Eisenhower forced Israel , the  uk , और फ़्रांस to समाप्त उनके आक्रमण of मिश्र दौरान  the Suez Crisis of 1956 .
In 1958 , he sent 15,000 US troops to Lebanon to  prevent the pro-western सरकारी इससे गिरना to a nasser -inspired  revolution .
Near the end of his term , his efforts to set up a  समिट बैठक साथ the soviets collapsed क्युकी of the u-2 घटना  .
On the  घरेलू सामने , he covertly opposed जोसेफ मैकार्थी और contributed to the समाप्त  of McCarthyism by openly invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege .
he वरना बाएँ सबसे राजनैतिक कार्यकलाप  to his Vice President , Richard Nixon .
He was a moderate  रूढ़िवादी जो जारी नई सौदे एजेंसियों  and expanded Social Security .
Among his enduring innovations , he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ) , which led to the internet , among  अनेक invaluable आउटपुट ; the नेशनल aeronautics और स्पेस प्रशासन ( नासा ) , ड्राइविंग शांतिपूर्ण डिस्कवरी in स्पेस ; the स्थापना of दमदार विज्ञान शिक्षा  via the National Defense Education Act ; and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act .
In social policy , he sent federal troops to Little Rock , Arkansas , for the first time  चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण to enforce संघीय अदालत आदेश to desegregate पब्लिक स्कूलों  .
He  भी हस्ताक्षरित सिविल अधिकारों विधान in 1957 और 1960  to protect the right to vote .
He  implemented desegregation of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां in  two years and made five appointments to the Supreme Court .
He was the first term-limited president  in accordance साथ the 22nd amendment  .
Eisenhower 's two terms were  शांतिपूर्ण ones लिये the सबसे भाग और देखी considerable आर्थिक समृद्धि मगर  for a sharp recession in 1958–59 .
आइज़नहावर is प्रायः क्रमित अत्यधिक among the  U.S. Presidents .
एयर फ़ोर्स एक is the आधिकारिक एयर ट्रैफ़िक कंट्रोल कॉल चिह्न of a संयुक्त राज्य  Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the United States .
In common parlance the term  refers to those एयर फ़ोर्स वायुयान specifically designed , निर्मित , और  used for the purpose of transporting the president .
The Presidential  वायुयान is a prominent प्रतीक of  the American presidency and its power .
The idea of designating specific military aircraft to transport the President  arose in 1943 , जब officials of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज एयर शक्तियां – the पूर्ववर्ती to the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स – became चिंतित साथ relying on वाणिज्यिक एयरलाइंस to हस्तांतरण the  President .
A C-87 Liberator Express was reconfigured  लिये उपयोग as a अध्यक्षीय हस्तांतरण ; however , it थी अस्वीकृत by the रहस्य सेवा amid  concerns over the aircraft 's safety record .
A C-54 Skymaster was  तब परिवर्तित लिये अध्यक्षीय उपयोग ; इस वायुयान , उतावले the पवित्र गाय , transported अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt to the Yalta Conference in February 1945 , and was subsequently used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman .
the `` एयर फ़ोर्स एक '' कॉल चिह्न थी निर्मित बाद a 1953 घटना दौरान जिससे a उड़ान carrying अध्यक्ष  Dwight D. Eisenhower entered the same airspace as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign .
Several aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the creation of the presidential fleet , including two Boeing 707s introduced  in the 1960s और 1970s , क्रमशः ; चूंकि 1990 , the अध्यक्षीय बेड़े रै consisted of दो बोइंग vc-25as – specifically विन्यस्त  , highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft .
The Air Force is looking into  replacing the दो vc-25 वायुयान साथ तीन बदलना  aircraft beginning in 2017 .
A wedding anniversary is the  वर्षगांठ of the तिथि a विवाह took  place .
Traditional names  मौजूद लिये सबसे of उन्हें : लिये उदाहरण , 50 सालो of विवाह is पुकारा a `` सुनहरी विवाह  anniversary '' or simply a `` golden anniversary '' .
A scanner with  duplexing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर  .
In multifunction or all-in-one printers , fax machines ,  photocopiers और scanners , an स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or adf is a विशेषता जिससे takes अनेक पृष्ठों और फ़ीड्स the पेपर एक पेज at a समय into a स्कैनर or कॉपियर , allowing the उपयोक्ता to स्कैन , और thereby नक़ल  , print , or fax , multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page .
Most  copiers allow स्कैनिंग on the फ्लैटबेड or platen ( the `` कांच  '' ) or through a document feeder .
The vast majority of fax machines  have an adf , allowing the unattended sending of multi-page  faxes .
Due  to the ubiquity of adf in फैक्स मशीने , कुछ फैक्स यंत्र स्वामी उपयोग the फैक्स यंत्र  as a scanner , faxing multi-page documents to themselves .
दस्तावेज़ feeders हैं वर्णित by गति , in पृष्ठों प्रति मिनट or ppm ,  and capacity , usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200 .
There are two kinds of document  feeders सक्षम of two-sided ( duplex ) स्कैनिंग : a reversing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or radf  scans one side of a page , then flips it and scans the other side .
A  duplexing स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर or dadf  scans both sides in one pass .
The advantage of  the dadf is तेज़ गति लिये two-sided मूल  .
RADFs and DADFs are rated in images  प्रति मिनट ( ipm ) , the क्रमांक of पहलू वे can स्कैन प्रत्येक  minute .
Fair Park is a  recreational और शैक्षणिक जटिल स्तिथ in डलास , टेक्सास  ( USA ) .
The complex is registered  as a डलास लैंडमार्क , नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क और is घर to नौ संग्रहालय , छह प्रदर्शन सुविधाएं  , a lagoon , and the largest Ferris wheel in North America .
Many of the buildings on  the जटिल यहूद constructed लिये the टेक्सास centennial exposition in  1936 which drew over six million visitors .
Most of the buildings built for the exposition still  जीवित और it is पहचाना as a significant उदाहरण of आर्ट डेको वास्तुकला  .
Fair Park has been  designated a ग्रेट प्लेस in अमेरिका by the अमरीकी नियोजन  Association .
The American Planning  संघ ( apa ) “is an स्वतंत्र , not-for-profit शैक्षणिक संगठन  that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great  स्थान in अमरीकी कार्यक्रम helps to celebrate क्षेत्रों साथ  “exemplary character , quality , and planning.”
Being  designated as a ग्रेट प्लेस in अमेरिका  , Fair Park was one of only ten cities chosen in 2011 .
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city in California , the  tenth-largest in the u.S. , और the काउंटी सीट of सांता क्लारा काउंटी जिससे is  located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay .
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley , which is a major component of the greater San Francisco  खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल , a प्रदेश of 8.4 लाख लोगों और the पांचवां largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( सीएसए  ) in the United States .
It is the largest  नगर in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
San Jose was founded on  नवम्बर 29 , 1777 , as el pueblo de सैन जोस de guadalupe , the पहला civilian कस्बा in the स्पेनी उपनिवेश  of Nueva California , which later became Alta California .
The city served as a  खेती जातियाँ to support स्पेनी सैन्य संस्थापना at सैन फ्रांसिस्को और  Monterey .
When  कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained statehood  in 1850 , San Jose served as its first capital .
After more than 150 years as a small farming city , San Jose and the surrounding Santa  क्लारा घाटी became the पिछला ( और largest ) संलग्न क्षेत्रफल of अविकसित जमीन surrounding  the San Francisco Bay .
San Jose experienced increased demand for  आवास इससे सैनिको और दिग्गजों returning  from World War II .
San Jose  तब जारी इसके आक्रामक विस्तार दौरान the  1950s and 1960s by annexing more land area .
The rapid growth of the high-technology and electronics industries further  त्वरित the परिवर्तन इससे an agricultural बीच , to an urbanized  metropolitan area .
By the 1990s , San Jose 's  स्थान भीतर the booming लोकल प्रौद्योगिकी उद्योग अर्जित the नगर इसके उपनाम , पूंजी of  Silicon Valley .
San Jose now  maintains वैश्विक नगर औकात और is the largest नगर in the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in शर्तें of जनसांख्यिकी  , land area , and industrial development .
The U.S. Census  ब्यूरो reported the जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर to be 945,942 as  of the 2010 Census .
As of April 2013 , the  अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of सैन जोस थी  984,000 .
San  जोस , साथ साथ the सांता क्लारा घाटी , अनुभवी परिचय हाफ a सदी of spectacular suburban sprawl ,  with characteristics of intense urbanization similar to the Los Angeles area of Southern California .
The city has taken  definite कदम to avoid बनने `` l.A. उत्तर  '' .
However , the  sprawl in सैन जोस is बदतर than in लॉस एंजिल्स by उपायों  such as population density and public transit safety , investment , and ridership .
यूरोपीय चित्रित by antwerp cartographer अब्राहम ortelius  in 1595
The history of  यूरोपीय कवर the लोगों inhabiting the यूरोपीय महाद्वीप चूंकि it थी पहला आबादी in प्रागैतिहासिक टाइम्स to उपस्थित , साथ the पहला होमो sapiens  arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC .
The earliest  settlers to प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय आए दौरान the  paleolithic era .
The  आगमन of कृषि around 7000 bc ushered in the पाषाणकालीन  age .
Neolithic Europe lasted for 4000 years , overlapping with  metal-using संस्कृतियों कि धीरे स्प्रेड throughout  the continent .
technological अग्रिम दौरान the प्रागैतिहासिक आयु tended to arrive इससे the मध्य ईस्ट  , spreading gradually to the northwest .
Some of the  best-known सभ्यताओं of प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय यहूद मिनोआई और माइसीनियाई ,  which flourished during the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC .
The period known as classical  प्राचीनता began साथ the वृद्धि of the city-states of प्राचीन यूनानियों .
Greek influence reached its zenith under the  expansive साम्राज्य of सिकंदर the ग्रेट , spreading throughout  Asia .
Northern  और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय यहूद वर्चस्व by the la tène संस्कृति  , a precursor to the Celts .
Rome , a small  city-state traditionally संस्थापित in 753 bc , होता grow to become the रोमन गणतंत्र in 509 bc और होता  succeed Greek culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization .
The events of the rule of Julius Caesar  led to reorganization of the गणतंत्र into the रोमन  Empire .
The  साम्राज्य थी बाद विभाजित by the सम्राट diocletian into  the Western and Eastern empires .
During the later years of the Roman Empire , the Germanic peoples of  उत्तरी यूरोपीय grew in शक्ति और दोहराया हमले led to the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in ad 476 , a तिथि जिससे traditionally marks  the end of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages .
During the Middle Ages ,  the पूर्वी रोमन साम्राज्य बच , हालांकि आधुनिक इतिहासकारों refer to इस  state as the Byzantine Empire .
In Western Europe , Germanic  peoples स्थानांतरित into स्थितियाँ of शक्ति in the remnants of the पूर्व पश्चिमी  Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own .
Of all  of the germanic peoples , the franks होता वृद्धि to a स्थिति of आधिपत्य over पश्चिमी  Europe , the Frankish Empire reaching its peak under Charlemagne around AD 800 .
Francia was divided into  अनेक भाग ; वेस्ट francia होता evolve into the किंगडम of फ़्रांस , जबकि ईस्ट francia होता evolve into the  Holy Roman Empire , a precursor to modern Germany .
The British  isles यहूद the साईट of अनेक large-scale  migrations .
Native  सेल्टिक peoples था महरूम अधिकारहीन दौरान the काल of रोमन ब्रिटेन , और जब the romans abandoned the अंग्रेजों isles दौरान the 400s ,  waves of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern Britain and established a series of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927 .
During this period ,  the किंगडम of कैंडल और किंगडम of हंगेरियाई ( 1000–1945 ) यहूद  organized as well .
The  viking आयु , a काल of migrations of scandinavian peoples , वर्चस्व  the period from the late 700s to the middle 1000s .
Chief among the  viking राज्य थी the साम्राज्य of cnut the ग्रेट , a डैनिश नेता जो होता become  king of England , Denmark , and Norway .
the normans , a viking लोगों जो settled in उत्तरी फ़्रांस और संस्थापित the duchy of normandy , होता have a significant  impact on many parts of Europe , from the Norman conquest of England to Southern Italy and Sicily .
Another  scandinavian लोगों , the rus ' लोगों , होता go on to मिला kievan rus ' , an जल्दी राज्य जिससे  was a precursor for the modern country of Russia .
As  the viking आयु खींचा to a बंद , the काल ज्ञात as the क्रूसेड , a श्रेणी of religiously-motivated सैन्य रिझाने  originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian rule , began .
अनेक जेहादी राज्य यहूद संस्थापित in the पूर्वी  Mediterranean .
ये यहूद सब short-lived  .
The  crusaders होता have a profound प्रभाव on अनेक भाग  of Europe .
Their Sack  of कुस्तुंतुनिया in 1204 brought an abrupt समाप्त to the  Byzantine Empire .
Extinct dog  breeds is a संकलन of श्वान breeds कि  have become extinct .
Wii Speak is a microphone  accessory लिये निन्टेंडो 's वी वीडियो खेल कंसोल  .
Connected to the  कंसोल via usb , the यंत्र can be लगाई निकट the वीडियो प्रदर्शक , allowing आवाज़  chat to be conducted with the entire room .
The device  सुविधाएँ an led to indicate जब  the microphone is active .
वी बोलो थी घोषित at निन्टेंडो  's 2008 E3 media briefing .
It was released separately and bundled with Animal Crossing :  नगर लोक on नवम्बर 16 , 2008 , in उत्तर अमेरिका , और थी released on दिसम्बर 5  , 2008 , in Europe .
The Wii  बोलो accessory is succeeded by the अंतःस्थापित माइक्रोफोन on  the Wii U 's GamePad controller .
Nissan  बुद्धिमान key®
A  smart कुंजी is an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अभिगम और प्राधिकरण प्रणाली जिससे is  available as an option or standard in several cars .
It was first developed by Siemens  in the mid-1990s और introduced by mercedes-benz अंतर्गत the नाम `` keyless  Go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following its design patent filed by Daimler-Benz on May 17 , 1997 .
Univisión ( ) is a  spanish-language टेलीविज़न संजाल  in the United States .
The network is primarily dedicated for  लैटिन अमरीकी परिवारों जो reside in the संयुक्त  States .
It has the largest audience of  spanish-language टेलीविज़न दर्शक in the संसार according  to Nielsen ratings .
Randy Falco , (  सीईओ as of जून 29 , 2011 ) coo , रै महरूम in चार्ज of the कम्पनी चूंकि  the departure of Univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010 .
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major English-language television networks ,  और is प्रायः a दमदार पांचवां , outranking the cw , साथ कुछ fourth-place साप्ताहिक placings , और as of 2012 , भी  first place rankings for individual programs over all five English networks due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year .
Univisión is  headquartered in नई यॉर्क , और रै इसके प्रमुख studios , उत्पादन सुविधाएं  , and operations in Doral , Florida , a suburb of Miami .
In 2009 , another  टेलीविज़न स्टुडियो थी घोषित , univision studios , to be निर्मित in doral  .
Univision is available on cable and satellite in most of the country , with local stations in over 50 markets with large Hispanic and Latino  populations और a नेशनल केबल संजाल फीड वितरित in बाज़ार  without either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station .
Most of these stations air full local news and other local programming in addition to network shows , and in major markets such as Los Angeles , New York , and Miami the  लोकल newscasts carried by the संजाल 's owned-and-operated स्टेशन ( o & o ) स्टेशन हैं बराबर प्रतिस्पर्धी साथ उनके english-language counterparts ratings-wise  .
Univisión was acquired on March 29 , 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban Capital Group ( who had  previously स्वामित्व the एंटिटी saban entertainment ) , tpg पूंजी , l.P. , विधाता इक्विटी साझेदार , मैडिसन dearborn साझेदार , और थामस H. ली साझेदार लिये $ 13.7  billion or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt .
The buyout left the company with a debt level of twelve times its annual cash  प्रवाह , जिससे थी twice the norm in buyouts किया over the पिछला  two years .
कलाकार 's धारणा of a आदिग्रह  disk
The formation  और of the सौर प्रणाली is अनुमानित to have begun 4.6 अरब सालो  ago with the gravitational collapse of a small part of a giant molecular cloud .
Most  of the collapsing द्रव्यमान एकत्रित in the केन्द्र , forming the सूर्य , जबकि the बाकी flattened into  a protoplanetary disk out of which the planets , moons , asteroids , and other small Solar System bodies formed .
This widely accepted model , known as the nebular hypothesis , was first developed in the 18th century  by emanuel swedenborg , immanuel kant , और pierre-simon लाप्लास .
इसके subsequent विकास रै interwoven a किस्में of वैज्ञानिक disciplines सहित खगोलशास्त्र  , physics , geology , and planetary science .
Since the dawn of the space age in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar planets in the  1990s , the मॉडल रै महरूम दोनो challenged और परिष्कृत to खाता लिये नई observations  .
The Solar System has evolved  considerably चूंकि इसके आरंभिक गठन  .
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas and dust around their parent planets , while other  moons हैं विचार to have formed independently और बाद महरूम captured  by their planets .
स्टिल अन्य , as the धरती 's चंद्रमा , may  be the result of giant collisions .
Collisions  between लाशें have occurred continually up to the उपस्थित दिन और have महरूम सेंट्रल to the एवोल्यूशन of  the Solar System .
The positions of the planets often shifted  , और ग्रह have switched स्थान  .
इस ग्रहीय माइग्रेशन is अभी विचार to have महरूम  responsible for much of the Solar System 's early evolution .
In roughly 5 billion years , the Sun will cool and expand outward many  टाइम्स इसके वर्तमान व्यास ( बनने a रेड दानव ) , पहले ढलाई बंद इसके बाहरी परतों as a ग्रहीय नीहारिका और leaving पीछे a तारकीय remnant ज्ञात as a श्वेत  dwarf .
In the far distant future , the  गम्भीरता of गुजर सितारों होगा धीरे reduce the सूर्य 's retinue of ग्रह .
Some planets  होगा be नष्ट , अन्य ejected into अंतरतारकीय  space .
ultimately , over the कोर्स of tens of अरबों of सालो  , it is likely that the Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it .
The Trial ( Kafka 's original German  शीर्षक : , बाद as , और ) is a अनोखा लिखा by फ्रांज  Kafka in 1914 and 1915 but not published until 1925 .
एक of काफ्का 's best-known works , it tells the स्टोरी of a man गिरफ्तार और prosecuted by a रिमोट  , inaccessible authority , with the nature of his crime revealed to neither him nor the reader .
Like Kafka 's other novels , The Trial was never  समाप्त , हालांकि it करता शामिल a अध्याय जिससे brings the  story to an end .
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist within the novel ,  ऐसे as असमानताओं in समय in जोड to अन्य discontinuities in narration .
After Kafka 's death in 1924 his friend and literary executor Max Brod  संपादित the टेक्स्ट लिये प्रकाशन by verlag die schmiede  .
The original manuscript is  आयोजित at the संग्रहालय of आधुनिक साहित्य , marbach am neckar , जर्मनी  .
In 1999 ,  the किताब थी सूचीबद्ध in le mondes 100 किताबे of the सदी और as no . 2 of the  Best German Novels of the Twentieth Century .
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March 11 , 1968  ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter और अभिनेत्री  .
She launched her career in  1994 साथ the सोंग , `` रहो ( i छूटी तुम ) `` , जिससे थी  included in the film Reality Bites .
She was the first artist to have a number one  सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य जबकि नहीं हस्ताक्षरित to a रिकॉर्डिंग  contract .
Her five studio CDs include her major  लेबल डेब्यू , the gold-selling tails और इसके follow-up , the grammy-nominated  , gold-selling Firecracker .
Loeb has  भी worked in फिल्मी , टेलीविज़न , voice-over कार्य और  children’s recordings .
Loeb has appeared in two television series , Dweezil  & लिसा , a साप्ताहिक culinary एडवेंचर लिये the खाना संजाल और क्रमांक 1 सिंगल , a वास्तविकता दिखाएँ  on the E !
Network in 2006  केन्द्रित on उसके क्वेस्ट लिये प्रेम , कामयाबी , करियर , और परिवार  .
Her children 's music includes the albums Catch  the चंद्रमा ( 2003 ) , और शिविर लिसा ( 2008  ) .
Her first joint children 's book and album Lisa Loeb 's Silly  sing-along : the निराशाजनक पैनकेक  and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011 .
in 2010 वो संस्थापित the लिसा लोएब चश्मा संग्रहण ,  which is based on her own designs .
the कोट of बाहें of the  State of New Jersey includes:
A shield with  तीन plows emblazoned , प्रतिनिधि of नई जर्सी 's agricultural  tradition .
A  forward-facing नाईट  's helmet .
A horse 's head as  the crest of the हेल्मेट  .
The female  आंकड़े स्वतंत्रता और ceres , प्रतिनिधि of the राज्य  's motto ( see next item ) .
Liberty is holding a  स्टाफ supporting a `` स्वतंत्रता कैप `` ;  Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia .
The streamer at the foot of the emblem  contains the राज्य motto of नई जर्सी , `` स्वतंत्रता  and Prosperity '' , and the year of statehood , 1776 .
It was originally  designed by पियरे यूजीन du simitiere in 1777 और थी  modified slightly in 1928 .
The seal is the central  मोटिफ in the ध्वज of नई जर्सी और the ग्रेट मुहर of the राज्य of नई  Jersey .
The Coat of  बाहें contains a घोड़ा  's head .
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs  itself तदनुसार और तीन plows on a शील्ड referring to the राज्य 's कृषि परंपरा  , giving it the nickname `` Garden State '' .
The two Goddesses  represent the राज्य motto , `` स्वतंत्रता और  Prosperity '' .
स्वतंत्रता is on the  left .
She is holding  a स्टाफ साथ a स्वतंत्रता कैप on it , और the  word liberty underneath her .
The goddess on  the सही is ceres , देवी of कृषि  .
वो is पकड़कर a cornucopia साथ समृद्धि  written below her .
According to the minutes of the New Jersey  सामान्य सभा लिये कूच 11 , 1896 , the तिथि in जिससे the सभा officially स्वीकृत the ध्वज as the राज्य emblem , the buff रंग is due indirectly to जार्ज वॉशिंगटन ,  who had ordered on October 2 , 1779 , that the uniform coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue , with buff facings .
Buff-colored facings had until then  महरूम सुरक्षित तभी लिये उसके अपना वर्दी और those of  other Continental generals and their aides .
Then , on February 28 , 1780 , the Continental War Officers in Philadelphia  निर्देशित कि the वर्दी कोट facings of सब regiments यहूद to be the वही as the पृष्ठभूमि रंग of the regiments ' राज्य ध्वज  .
The  मुहर is वर्णित in नई जर्सी statute  Title 52 , §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out  '' is a सोंग by the बीटल्स , लिखा  by Paul McCartney and John Lennon .
It  थी released as a `` दोगुना a-sided `` सिंगल साथ `` दिन tripper  `` , the first time both sides of a single were so designated in an initial release .
Both  गीतों यहूद अंकित दौरान the रबर आत्मा सत्र  .
The song is an example of  lennon–mccartney सहयोग at a गहराई कि happened तभी rarely  after they wrote the hit singles of 1963 .
This song , `` A Day in the Life `` , ``  baby , तुम 're a समृद्ध man `` और `` i 've मिला a अहसास  `` , are among the notable exceptions .
As a medical diagnosis ,  pedophilia or paedophilia is a मनोरोग विकार in व्यक्तियों 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी typically characterized by a प्राथमिक or विशेष यौन ब्याज toward prepubescent children ( generally आयु 11 सालो or younger , हालांकि विशिष्ट निदान  criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ) .
an adolescent जो is 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी जरूर be at तनिक पाँच सालो पुरानी than the prepubescent  child before the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia .
The term has a range of  परिभाषाएं , as मिला in psychiatry , मनोविज्ञान , the देशी , और  law enforcement .
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD )  defines pedophilia as a `` विकार of वयस्क व्यक्तित्व और आचरण '' in जिससे वहीँ is a यौन वरीयता लिये children  of prepubertal or early pubertal age .
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ) , it is a  paraphilia in जिससे वयस्कों or adolescents 16 सालो of आयु or पुरानी have तीव्र और तूल यौन प्रेरणाएं towards और कल्पनाओं परिचय prepubescent children कि वे  have either acted on or which cause them distress or interpersonal difficulty .
In popular usage , pedophilia means any sexual interest  in children or the अधिनियम of चाइल्ड यौन गाली , प्रायः termed `` pedophilic  behavior '' .
For example , The American Heritage  stedman 's चिकित्सा शब्दकोष राज्य , `` pedophilia is the अधिनियम or काल्पनिक on the भाग of an वयस्क of engaging in यौन कार्यकलाप साथ a चाइल्ड or  children . ''
This common use application also extends to the  यौन ब्याज in और यौन सम्पर्क साथ रोमिल or post-pubescent नाबालिग  .
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although people who  कमिट चाइल्ड यौन गाली commonly प्रदर्शनी the विकार , कुछ अपराधियों do नहीं मिलें the नैदानिक निदान मानकों लिये  pedophilia and these standards pertain to prepubescents .
Additionally ,  नहीं सब pedophiles दरअसल कमिट ऐसे  abuse .
pedophilia थी पहला formally पहचाना और  named in the late 19th century .
a significant राशि of शोध in the क्षेत्रफल  has taken place since the 1980s .
Although mostly  प्रलेखित in मेन , वहीँ हैं भी महिलाओं जो प्रदर्शनी the विकार , और शोधकर्ताओं assume उपलब्धियाँ  estimates underrepresent the true number of female pedophiles .
No cure for pedophilia has been  विकसित , लकिन वहीँ हैं therapies कि can reduce the incidence of a व्यक्ति  committing child sexual abuse .
In the United States , following Kansas v. Hendricks , sex offenders who are diagnosed with  निश्चित दिमागी विकार , विशेषकर pedophilia , can be विषय to indefinite सिविल प्रतिबद्धता , अंतर्गत विभिन्न राज्य कानून ( generically पुकारा svp कानून ) और the  federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 .
At  उपस्थित , the सटीक कल्याणकारी of pedophilia  have not been conclusively established .
Research suggests that pedophilia may be correlated  साथ अनेक अलग neurological abnormalities , और प्रायः co-exists साथ अन्य व्यक्तित्व विकार और  psychological pathologies .
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement , a  किस्में of typologies have महरूम सुझाया to categorize pedophiles according to बर्ताव और motivations  .
Julio César  chávez ( born जूलियो césar chávez gonzález on जुलाई 12  , 1962 ) is a retired Mexican professional boxer .
Chávez  is माना by अनेक लोगों लिये उनके खेल आंकडे  the greatest fighter ever to come out of Mexico .
He is a six-time world champion in three  वज़न विभाजन , और लिये अनेक सालो he थी माना एक of the बेहतरीन pound-for-pound boxer  in the world .
In a career that spanned over 25 years , Chávez won five world titles in  तीन वज़न विभाजन : wbc सुपर featherweight in 1984 , wba lightweight in 1987 , wbc lightweight in 1988 , wbc लाइट welterweight in 1989 , ibf लाइट welterweight  in 1990 , and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994 .
He holds records for most  कामयाब लगातार defenses of संसार शीर्षक ( 27 ) , सबसे शीर्षक झगड़े ( 37 ) , सबसे title-fight victories ( 31 ) और he is बाद जो लुई साथ  ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ) .
Chávez also has the  longest अपराजित streak in मुक्केबाज़ी इतिहास , 13 सालो  .
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss  to फ्रेंकी रान्डेल और था an 87 लड़ो जीत streak जबतक उसके `` चित्रण '' साथ  Whitaker .
Julio César Chávez was known for his  बकाया पंचिंग शक्ति , विनाशकारी देह आक्रमण , remarkably दमदार chin और the अथक  stalking of his opponents .
He ranks # 24 on  ईएसपीएन 's 50 महानतम मुक्केबाज  Of All Time .
On December  7 , 2010 , he थी inducted in the prestigious  International Boxing Hall of Fame for the Class of 2011 .
He is the father  of prospect ओमर chávez और पूर्व wbc middleweight चैंपियन  Julio César Chávez , Jr .
`` Selektion ``  on the judenrampe , auschwitz  , May/June 1944 .
To be sent to the right  meant स्लेव मजदूर ; to the बाएँ ,  the gas chamber .
This image shows the arrival of Hungarian Jews from  carpatho-ruthenia , अनेक of उन्हें इससे the berehov  ghetto .
The photographer  थी अर्नस्ट hofmann or बर्नहार्ड वाल्टर of the  SS . Image courtesy of Yad Vashem
The  holocaust ( इससे the यूनानी ' : hólos , `` पूरे '' और kaustós , `` जले '' ) भी ज्ञात as the shoah ( यहूदी : , hashoah , `` प्रलय '' ; यहूदी : , churben or hurban , इससे the यहूदी लिये `` विनाश '' ) , थी the द्रव्यमान हत्या or नरसंहार of लगभग छह लाख यहूदियों दौरान संसार युद्ध ii  , a programme of systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany , led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party , throughout German-occupied territory .
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in Europe  पहले the holocaust , लगभग two-thirds यहूद मारे .
Over one million Jewish children were killed in the  holocaust , as यहूद लगभग दो लाख यहूदी महिलाओं और तीन  million Jewish men .
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied  territory यहूद प्रयुक्त to concentrate , थाम , और मार यहूदियों  and other victims .
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included  in the परिभाषा , और कुछ उपयोग the आम संज्ञा `` holocaust '' to describe अन्य नाजी द्रव्यमान हत्याएं , सहित those of सोवियत बंदियों of युद्ध , पॉलिश और सोवियत नागरिकों , और  homosexuals .
Recent estimates based on  आंकड़े प्राप्त चूंकि the पतन of the सोवियत संघ indicates कुछ टेन to ग्यारह लाख नागरिकों  and prisoners of war were intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime .
The persecution  और नरसंहार यहूद carried  out in stages .
Various laws to remove the Jews  इससे सिविल समाज , सबसे prominently the nuremberg कानून , यहूद enacted in जर्मनी सालो पहले  the outbreak of World War II .
Concentration camps were  स्थापित in जिससे inmates यहूद वशीभूत to स्लेव  labor until they died of exhaustion or disease .
Where Germany  conquered नई territory in पूर्वी यूरोपीय , specialized इकाई पुकारा einsatzgruppen murdered यहूदियों और राजनैतिक  opponents in mass shootings .
The occupiers  जरूरी यहूदियों और romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos पहले होने transported by भाड़ा ट्रैन  to extermination camps where , if they survived the journey , most were systematically killed in gas chambers .
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the  लोजिस्टिक्स कि led to the genocides , turning the तीसरा reich into कया एक holocaust विद्वान रै पुकारा `` a genocidal राज्य  '' .
4-H  in the संयुक्त राज्य is a युवावस्था संगठन administered by the नेशनल संस्थान of खाना और कृषि of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of कृषि ( यूएसडीए ) , साथ  the mission of `` engaging youth to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development . ''
The name represents four personal development areas of focus  लिये the संगठन : सिर , दिल , हैंड्स , और स्वास्थ्य  .
The organization has over  6.5 लाख सदस्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य , इससे आयु पाँच to  twenty-one , in approximately 90,000 clubs .
The goal of 4-H is to develop  नागरिकता , नेतृत्व , जिम्मेदारी और जीवन कौशल of युवावस्था through experiential सीखना कार्यक्रम  and a positive youth development approach .
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally  केन्द्रित संगठन as a परिणाम of इसके इतिहास , 4-h आज focuses on नागरिकता  , healthy living , science , engineering , and technology programs .
Today , 4-H and related programs  मौजूद in over अस्सी देशों around the संसार ; the संगठन और प्रशासन  varies from country to country .
Each of these programs operates independently , but  cooperatively through अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges , वैश्विक शिक्षा कार्यक्रम  , and communications .
The 4-H motto is `` To make the best better  '' , जबकि इसके स्लोगन is `` सीख by doing '' ( sometimes लिखा as `` सीख to  do by doing '' ) .
The national  ध्वज of चिली , consists of दो गैरबराबरी आड़ा bands of श्वेत और रेड और a ब्लू वर्गाकार the वही ऊँचाई as  the white band in the canton , which bears a white five-pointed star in the center .
It was  अपनाया on 18 अक्तूबर 1817  .
The Chilean flag is also  ज्ञात in स्पेनी as la estrella solitaria ( the लोन  Star ) .
The star represents a  मार्गदर्शिका to प्रगति और सम्मान ; ब्लू symbolizes the आसमान और the प्रशांत समंदर , श्वेत is लिये the snow-covered  Andes , and red stands for the blood spilled to achieve independence .
According to the epic poem La  araucana , the रंगों यहूद निकला इससे those इससे the ध्वज flown by the mapuche दौरान  the Arauco War .
`` Flag Day  '' is आयोजित प्रत्येक साल on the नवीं of जुलाई to commemorate the 77 सैनिको जो died in  the 1882 Battle of La Concepción .
Generation  y , भी ज्ञात as the अंतर्दृष्टियों पीढी , is the  demographic cohort following Generation X .
वहीँ हैं no precise तिथियाँ लिये जब पीढी  Y starts and ends .
Commentators use beginning  जनम तिथियाँ इससे the latter 1970s , or इससे the जल्दी  1980s to the early 2000s .
the torches of नीरो , by henryk  Siemiradzki .
According to  tacitus , नीरो targeted ईसाइयों as those  responsible for the fire .
the ग्रेट आग of रोम ( ) थी an शहरी आग कि occurred  beginning 19 July AD 64 .
Virginia ( ) , officially  the राष्ट्रमंडल of वर्जिनिया , is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the दक्षिण अटलांटिक  region of the United States .
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' and the ``  माँ of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the आठ u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों  born there .
The geography and climate of the Commonwealth are shaped  by the ब्लू लकीरें kyu और the chesapeake खाड़ी , जिससे provide आवास लिये much of इसके  flora and fauna .
The capital of the Commonwealth is Richmond  ; और वर्जिनिया बीच is the सबसे populous नगर  .
Fairfax  काउंटी is the सबसे populous राजनैतिक  subdivision .
The wealthiest is  loudoun काउंटी  .
The Commonwealth 's population  is over आठ लाख  .
the क्षेत्रफल 's इतिहास begins साथ  several indigenous groups , including the Powhatan .
In 1607 the London Company established the Colony  of वर्जिनिया as the पहला स्थाई नई संसार अंग्रेज़ी उपनिवेश  .
Slave labor and the  जमीन acquired इससे विस्थापित देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों प्रत्येक निभाई a significant भूमिका in the उपनिवेश 's जल्दी राजनीती  and plantation economy .
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in  the अमरीकी क्रान्ति और joined the confederacy in the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध , दौरान जिससे रिचमंड थी बना the confederate पूंजी और वर्जिनिया 's  northwestern counties seceded to form the state of West Virginia .
Although the Commonwealth was  अंतर्गत रूढ़िवादी single-party नियम लिये nearly a सदी following पुनर्निर्माण  , both major national parties are competitive in modern Virginia .
The  वर्जिनिया सामान्य सभा is the oldest विधानमंडल  in the Western Hemisphere .
The  राज्य सरकारी रै महरूम repeatedly क्रमित सबसे  effective by the Pew Center on the States .
It is unique in how  it ट्रीट शहरों और काउंटी बराबर , manages लोकल सड़कें , और prohibits  its governors from serving consecutive terms .
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal  एजेंसियों in उत्तरी वर्जिनिया , सहित the मुख्यालय of the विभाग of रक्षा और सीआईए ; और सैन्य सुविधाएं in हैम्पटन सड़कें , the साईट of the  region 's main seaport .
Virginia 's public schools and many colleges  और विश्वविद्यालयों have contributed to growing मीडिया और प्रौद्योगिकी  sectors .
As a  परिणाम , कंप्यूटर चिप्स have become the राज्य  's leading export .
Windows  फिल्म मेकर ( formerly ज्ञात as खिड़कियाँ सजीव फिल्म मेकर , codenamed sundance ) is a  freeware video editing software by Microsoft .
It is a part of Windows  अनिवार्य तन्त्र सुइट और offers the क्षमता to बनाएँ और संपादन वीडियो as खूब as  to publish them on SkyDrive , Facebook , YouTube , and Flickr .
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single by Tupac  shakur , और दसवाँ track इससे उसके डेब्यू एल्बम , 2pacalypse अभी  .
The song , which features R & B singer Dave  hollister , is परिचय a बारह year-old लड़की नामित ब्रेंडा जो जीवनदान in  a ghetto , has a baby , and is incapable of supporting it .
The song explores  the समस्या of टीन गर्भावस्था और इसके प्रभाव on the  young mothers and their families .
Like many of Shakur 's songs , ``  ब्रेंडा 's मिला a baby '' draws इससे the दुर्दशा of the impoverished  .
Using Brenda to represent young mothers in  सामान्य , shakur criticises the कम स्तर of support इससे the baby 's पिता , the सरकारी  , and society in general .
Shakur wrote the song when he read a  समाचारपत्र आलेख परिचय a twelve-year-old लड़की जो मिला गर्भवती इससे उसके cousin और , क्युकी वो किया नहीं want उसके अभिभावक to  know about the baby , threw it in a trash can .
The official logo of Pokémon for its international release ; `` Pokémon '' is short  लिये the असली जापानी शीर्षक of `` जेब राक्षस ''  .
is a media franchise published and  स्वामित्व by जापानी वीडियो खेल  company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996 .
originally released as a जोड़ी of interlinkable खेल लड़के role-playing वीडियो खेल विकसित by खेल freak , पोकीमॉन रै चूंकि become the second-most  successful and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world , behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise .
पोकीमॉन गुण have चूंकि महरूम merchandised into दुश्मनी  , manga , trading cards , toys , books , and other media .
The franchise celebrated in 2006 ,  और , संचयी बिक्री of the वीडियो खेल ( सहित घर कंसोल संस्करण , ऐसे as the `` pikachu '' निन्टेंडो 64 ) have पहुँचे  more than 200 million copies .
In November 2005 , 4Kids Entertainment , which  था प्रबंधित the non-game सम्बन्धित लाइसेंसिंग of पोकीमॉन , घोषित कि it था सहमत नहीं to नवीनीकृत the पोकीमॉन  representation agreement .
Pokémon USA  inc. ( अभी the पोकीमॉन कम्पनी अंतरराष्ट्रीय ) , a subsidiary of जापानी 's पोकीमॉन co. , अभी  oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia .
The  नाम पोकीमॉन is the romanized संकुचन  of the Japanese brand .
The term Pokémon , in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself ,  भी collectively refers to the 649 fictional प्रजाति कि have बना दिखावे in पोकीमॉन मीडिया as of the रिलीज of the पांचवां पीढी शीर्षक पोकीमॉन  Black 2 and White 2 ; with the upcoming releases of Pokémon X and Y , 6 new Pokémon have been featured in promotions for the games .
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the singular and plural , as is each individual species name ; it is grammatically  सही to कह `` एक पोकीमॉन '' और `` अनेक पोकीमॉन '' , as खूब as `` एक pikachu `` और `` अनेक  Pikachu '' .
Cover of the first  संस्करण of the प्रकाशन  Dada by Tristan Tzara ; Zurich , 1917
Dada  ( ) or dadaism थी an आर्ट गति of the  European avant-garde in the early 20th century .
Many claim Dada began in Zurich , Switzerland in 1916  , spreading to बर्लिन shortly thereafter लकिन the ऊँचाई of नई यॉर्क दादा थी the साल पहले in 1915  .
To quote Dona  budd 's the भाषा of आर्ट ज्ञान , दादा थी born आउट of ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया  to the horrors of World War I .
This international  गति थी begun by a समूह of कलाकार और कवियों संबद्ध साथ the कैबरे  Voltaire in Zurich .
Dada  अस्वीकृत कारण और लॉजिक , prizing बकवास  , irrationality and intuition .
The origin of the name Dada is unclear  ; कुछ मानना कि it is a nonsensical शब्द  .
Others maintain that it originates from the  रोमानियाई कलाकारों ट्रिस्टन tzara और मार्सल janco 's बारंबार  use of the words da , da , meaning yes , yes in the Romanian language .
Another theory says that  the नाम `` दादा '' आए दौरान a बैठक of the समूह जब a पेपर चाकू stuck into a french-german शब्दकोष  happened to point to 'dada ' , a French word for 'hobbyhorse ' .
The movement primarily involved visual arts  , साहित्य , काव्य , आर्ट manifestoes , आर्ट सिद्धान्त , थिएटर , और ग्राफिक डिज़ाइन , और concentrated इसके anti-war राजनीती through a अस्वीकृति of  the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works .
In addition to being anti-war , Dada was  भी anti- बुर्जुआ और था राजनैतिक affinities साथ the कट्टरपंथी बाएँ  .
Dada activities included public gatherings , demonstrations , and  प्रकाशन of art/literary जर्नल्स ; passionate कवरेज of आर्ट , राजनीती , और संस्कृति यहूद  topics often discussed in a variety of media .
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball , Emmy Hennings , Hans Arp , Raoul Hausmann , Hannah Höch ,  योहानेस baader , ट्रिस्टन tzara , फ्रांसिस picabia , रिचर्ड huelsenbeck , georg grosz , जॉन heartfield , मार्सल duchamp ,  Beatrice Wood , Kurt Schwitters , and Hans Richter , among others .
The movement influenced later styles like the avant-garde and downtown  म्यूज़िक आंदोलनों , और समूह सहित surrealism , देवानंद réalisme  , pop art and Fluxus .
दादा is the groundwork to अमूर्त आर्ट और ध्वनि काव्य , a starting पाइंट लिये प्रदर्शन आर्ट , a prelude to postmodernism , an influence on पॉप आर्ट , a जश्न of antiart to be  later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism .
पहला trophic  level .
The plants in this image , and the algae  और phytoplankton in the झील , हैं प्राथमिक निर्माता  .
They take nutrients from the soil or the  जल , और manufacture उनके अपना खाना by photosynthesis , using  energy from the sun .
The  trophic स्तर of an सजीव is the स्थिति  it occupies in a food chain .
The word trophic derives from the Greek  τροφή ( trophē ) referring to खाना or feeding  .
A food  कड़ी represents a उत्तराधिकार of जीवों कि खा another सजीव और  are , in turn , eaten themselves .
The  क्रमांक of कदम an सजीव is इससे the प्रारंभ  of the chain is a measure of its trophic level .
Food chains  प्रारंभ at trophic स्तर 1 साथ प्राथमिक निर्माता ऐसे as पौधे , मूव to herbivores at स्तर 2 , परभक्षी at स्तर 3 और  typically finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5 .
The path along the  कड़ी can रूप either a one-way  flow , or a food `` web . ''
Ecological  समुदायों साथ उच्चतर biodiversity रूप  more complex trophic paths .
चार of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण domesticated  silk moths .
Top to  नीचे : bombyx mori , hyalophora cecropia , antheraea pernyi  , Samia cynthia .
From Meyers  konversations-lexikon ( 1885-1892  )
A  silk-producing raspy  cricket .
Silk is a natural protein fibre ,  कुछ फ़ॉर्म of जिससे can be woven into वस्त्र  .
The protein  fibre of रेशा is रचित मुख्यतः of fibroin  and produced by certain insect larvae to form cocoons .
The best-known type of silk is obtained from the cocoons of the  लार्वे of the शहतूत silkworm bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture  ) .
The shimmering appearance of silk is due to  the triangular प्रिज़्म -like ढांचा of the रेशा fibre , जिससे allows रेशा cloth to refract आवक लाइट at अलग  angles , thus producing different colors .
Silks are  उत्पादित by अनेक अन्य कीट , लकिन generally तभी the रेशा of शलभ  caterpillars has been used for textile manufacturing .
वहीँ रै महरूम कुछ शोध into अन्य silks , जिससे differ  at the molecular level .
Many silks are mainly produced by the larvae of insects undergoing complete metamorphosis , but some adult  कीट ऐसे as webspinners उपज रेशा , और कुछ कीट ऐसे as raspy झींगुर उपज रेशा throughout उनके जीवनदान  .
Silk production also occurs in  कलापक्ष ( मधुमक्खियों , wasps , और चींटियों ) , silverfish , mayflies ,  thrips , leafhoppers , beetles , lacewings , fleas , flies and midges .
Other  प्रकार of सन्धिपाद उपज रेशा , सबसे notably विभिन्न arachnids  such as spiders ( see spider silk ) .
Late Show with David Letterman is an  अमरीकी late-night बात दिखाएँ hosted by  David Letterman on CBS .
The  दिखाएँ debuted on अगस्त 30 , 1993 , और is उत्पादित by लेटरमैन 's उत्पादन  company , Worldwide Pants Incorporated .
The show 's  म्यूज़िक निदेशक और band-leader of the हाउस बैंड , the सीबीएस  Orchestra , is Paul Shaffer .
The head  लेखक is मैट रॉबर्ट्स  and the announcer is Alan Kalter .
Of the major U.S. late-night  कार्यक्रम , लेट दिखाएँ बाँधने दूसरी in संचयी औसत दर्शक over समय और तीसरा in  number of episodes over time .
The show leads other late night  shows in ad आय साथ $ 271 लाख  in 2009 .
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time , but is  अंकित सोमवार through बुधवार at 4:30 p.m. , और गुरुवार at 3:30 p.m और 6:00  p.m .
The second Thursday episode usually  airs on शुक्रवार of कि सप्ताह  .
In 2002 , Late Show  साथ दाउद लेटरमैन थी क्रमित no . 7 on tv मार्गदर्शिका 's 50 महानतम tv shows  of All Time .
CBS has a  अनुबंध साथ विश्वव्यापी पैंट to continue the दिखाएँ through 2014 ; by तब  , Letterman will surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host .
The  रियल housewives of नारंगी काउंटी is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता वृत्तचित्र टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम on  Bravo , set in Orange County , California .
It was the first  the रियल housewives कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी  .
The  श्रेणी is a voyeuristic dekh into the धनवान जीवनदान of ये housewives , as वे  shop , get plastic surgery , gossip , fight and live lavishly .
The financial crisis , the beginning of which coincided almost exactly with the first season 's broadcast , has since trimmed  the housewives ' lifestyles साथ जॉब नुकसान , evictions , बंधक मूलभूत , foreclosures , और वैवाहिक stress—all  recorded in progressive seasons of the show .
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or other  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अर्थात् to stalk  or harass an individual , a group of individuals , or an organization .
It may include the making of false accusations or statements of fact (  as in मानहानि ) , निगरानी , बनाना खतरे , पहचान चोरी , क्षति to आंकड़ा or उपकरण , the solicitation  of minors for sex , or gathering information that may be used to harass .
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the criterion that a reasonable person , in  कब्ज़ा of the वही सूचना , होता लिहाज़ it as sufficient to कारण another उचित व्यक्ति तकलीफ  .
Cyberstalking is  अलग इससे स्थानिक or ऑफ़लाइन stalking in कि it occurs through the उपयोग of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक संचार  technology such as the internet .
However , it  sometimes लीड to it , or is accompanied  by it .
Both  हैं दण्ड offenses  .
cyberstalking साझा महत्वपूर्ण विशेषताएँ साथ ऑफ़लाइन  stalking .
Many stalkers – online or  बंद – हैं प्रेरित by a ख्वाहिश to  control their victims .
A  cyberstalker may be an ऑनलाइन अजनबी or a व्यक्ति  whom the target knows .
A cyberstalker may be anonymous and may solicit  भागीदारी of अन्य लोगों ऑनलाइन जो do नहीं भी जान the  target .
cyberstalking is a दण्ड ठोकर कि आता into खेल अंतर्गत राज्य anti-stalking कानून , बदनामी  laws , and harassment laws .
A cyberstalking conviction can  परिणाम in a restraining अनुक्रम , परिवीक्षा , or भी दण्ड दंड विरूद्ध the assailant , सहित  jail .
A business letter is usually used when writing from one company to  another , or लिये पत्राचार between ऐसे संगठन और उनके ग्राहक , क्लाइंट और अन्य बाह्य पार्टियों  .
The overall style of  अक्षर होगा निर्भर on the संबंध between  the parties concerned .
There are  अनेक कारण to लिखें a  business letter .
It could be to request direct information or action from another party , to order supplies from a  प्रदायक , to पहचानो a गलती कि थी वचनबद्ध , to जवाब सीधे to a निवेदन , to माफी लिये a ग़लत or बस to convey साख  .
Even today , the business letter is still very useful because it produces a permanent record ,  is गोपनीय , औपचारिक और delivers persuasive , well-considered संदेश  .
tilapia ( ) is the आम नाम लिये nearly a सौ प्रजाति of cichlid  fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe .
Tilapia are mainly freshwater fish , inhabiting shallow  स्ट्रीम , तालाबों , नदियाँ और झीलों , और कम commonly मिला जीना in brackish जल  .
Historically , they have been of major  महत्व in कारीगर फ़िशिंग in अफ़्रीकी और the levant , और हैं of increasing महत्व in aquaculture  .
Tilapia can become problematic invasive species in new warm-water habitats ,  whether deliberately or accidentally introduced , लकिन generally नहीं in शीतोष्ण climates due to उनके अक्षमता to जीवित in कूलर waters नीचे  about .
Turner & Hooch is  a 1989 कॉमेडी नाटक अपराधों फिल्मी अभिनीत tom हैंक्स और beasley the श्वान as the eponymous वर्ण  , Turner and Hooch respectively .
The film  भी सितारों घोड़ी winningham , क्रेग T. नेल्सन , और  Reginald VelJohnson .
It was  निर्देशित by रोजर spottiswoode ; the फिल्मी थी originally slated to be निर्देशित by हेनरी  Winkler , but he was terminated due to `` creative differences '' .
it थी co-written by माइकल blodgett इससे परे  the Valley of the Dolls fame .
Although  k-9 ( साथ जेम्स belushi ) थी released prior to इस फिल्मी ( exactly तीन महीने पहले ) , टर्नर  & Hooch became more popular and seemingly overshadowed its greater success , even though K-9 had a very similar plot .
A pilot for a Turner & Hooch TV series  थी बना और भागा as a भाग of the जादुई  World of Disney .
This is a  सूची of israeli एयरपोर्ट ,  sorted by location .
प्रवेश to ovda  Airport
टर्मिनल 3 at  Ben Gurion
Plane  लैंडिंग at be'er  Sheva ( Teyman )
eilat विमानक्षेत्र
Adolf  हिटलर ( ; 20 अप्रैल 1889 – 30 अप्रैल 1945 ) थी an आस्ट्रिया -born जर्मनी राजनेता  and the leader of the Nazi Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ) .
he थी चांसलर of जर्मनी इससे 1933 to 1945  and dictator of Nazi Germany ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945 .
Hitler was at the centre of  नाजी जर्मनी , संसार युद्ध ii in यूरोपीय  , and the Holocaust .
Hitler was a decorated  दिग्गज of संसार युद्ध i  .
He joined the German  मजदूर ' पार्टी ( precursor of the nsdap ) in 1919 , और became नेता of  the NSDAP in 1921 .
In 1923 , he attempted a coup  d'état in म्यूनिख , ज्ञात as the बियर हॉल putsch  .
The failed  तख्तापलट resulted in हिटलर 's कारावास , दौरान जिससे समय  he wrote his memoir , Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ) .
After his release in 1924 ,  हिटलर gained लोकप्रिय support by attacking the सन्धि of versailles और promoting pan-germanism , antisemitism  , and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda .
After  उसके नियुक्ति as चांसलर in 1933 , he रूपांतरित the वाइमर गणतंत्र into the तीसरा reich , a single-party  dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of Nazism .
Hitler  's उद्देश्य थी to स्थापित a नई अनुक्रम of निरपेक्ष नाजी जर्मनी  hegemony in continental Europe .
To this end , his foreign and domestic  नीतियों था the उद्देश्य of seizing lebensraum ( `` जीना स्पेस '' ) लिये  the Germanic people .
He directed the rearmament of Germany and the  आक्रमण of कैंडल by the wehrmacht in सितंबर 1939 , resulting in the outbreak of संसार  War II in Europe .
Under Hitler 's rule , in 1941  जर्मनी शक्तियां और उनके यूरोपीय allies occupied सबसे of  Europe and North Africa .
In  1943 , जर्मनी था महरूम मजबूर onto the रक्षात्मक  and suffered a series of escalating defeats .
In  the फाइनल दिनों of the युद्ध , दौरान the बैटल of बर्लिन  in 1945 , Hitler married his long-time partner , Eva Braun .
On 30 April 1945 , less than two  दिनों बाद , the दो वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या to avoid कैप्चर by the रेड फौज ,  and their corpses were burned .
Hitler 's  आक्रामक विदेशी नीति is माना the प्रमुख कारण of the outbreak  of World War II in Europe .
His antisemitic policies and racially motivated  विचारधारा resulted in the मौतों of at तनिक 5.5 लाख यहूदियों , और  millions of other people deemed racially inferior .
अंगूठा
A domain name is an identification string that  defines a फ्रेम of प्रशासनिक स्वायत्तता , प्राधिकार , or कंट्रोल on  the Internet .
Domain  names हैं formed by the नियम और प्रक्रियाओं of the डोमेन  Name System ( DNS ) .
technically , कोई नाम पंजीकृत  in the DNS is a domain name .
Domain names  हैं प्रयुक्त in विभिन्न नेटवर्किंग contexts और application-specific नामकरण और संबोधित  purposes .
In general , a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource , such as a personal computer used to access the  अंतरजाल , a सर्वर कंप्यूटर होस्टिंग a वेब साईट , or the वेब साईट itself or कोई अन्य सेवा communicated via the अंतरजाल .
Domain  names हैं व्यवस्थित in अधीनस्थ  levels ( subdomains ) of the DNS root domain , which is nameless .
The first-level  नियत of डोमेन names हैं the top-level डोमेन ( tlds ) , सहित the जेनेरिक top-level डोमेन ( gtlds ) , ऐसे as the prominent डोमेन  com , info , net and org , and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ) .
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are typically open for reservation by  end-users जो काश to कनेक्ट लोकल क्षेत्रफल संजाल to the अंतरजाल , बनाएँ अन्य सरेआम accessible अंतरजाल संसाधन or चलाएं वेब साइट  .
The registration of these domain names is usually  administered by डोमेन नाम registrars जो बेचें उनके सेवाएं to the पब्लिक  .
A  fully योग्य डोमेन नाम ( fqdn ) is a डोमेन नाम कि is completely  specified in the hierarchy of the DNS , having no omitted parts .
Domain names are usually written in lowercase ,  हालांकि लेबल्स in the डोमेन नाम प्रणाली हैं case-insensitive  .
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion with  the आणविक सूत्र no3− और a आणविक द्रव्यमान of 62.0049 g/mol . nitrates भी describe the  organic functional group RONO2 .
These nitrate  esters हैं a specialized क्लास of  explosives .
a गेहूं कटाई  in Idaho
इस फ़ोटो इससे a 1921 ज्ञानकोष  shows a tractor ploughing a crop field .
Agriculture is a  प्रमुख उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य और the देश  is a net exporter of food .
As of the last  जनसांख्यिकी of कृषि in 2007 , वहीँ यहूद 2.2 लाख  farms , covering an area of , an average of per farm .
Although agricultural activity occurs in most states , it is particularly concentrated in the  विशाल expanse of चपटा , arable जमीन ज्ञात as the ग्रेट मैदान , जिससे encompasses the सेंट्रल प्रदेश of the स्वदेश .
The Mpemba effect , named after  tanzanian छात्र erasto mpemba , is the assertion कि warmer  water can freeze faster than colder water .
Although there is anecdotal  support लिये the प्रभाव , वहीँ is no अनुबंध on exactly कया the प्रभाव is और अंतर्गत कया हालातों it occurs  .
There have been reports of similar phenomena since  प्राचीन टाइम्स , हालांकि साथ अपर्याप्त विवरण लिये the दावा to  be replicated .
The phenomenon seems contrary to  ऊष्मागतिकी , लकिन a क्रमांक of संभावित स्पष्टीकरण लिये the प्रभाव have  been proposed .
Further investigations will need to decide on a  precise परिभाषा of `` जमने '' और कंट्रोल a विशाल क्रमांक of starting पैरामीटर्स  in order to confirm or explain the effect .
The Siamese ( , ) is one  of the पहला distinctly पहचाना breeds of प्राच्य  cat .
The breed originated in Thailand  ( formerly ज्ञात as सियाम ) , जहाँ वे हैं एक of अनेक देशी breeds और हैं पुकारा wichian mat ( วิเชียรมาศ ,  a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ) .
In the 20th century the  siamese बिल्ली became एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय breeds in यूरोपीय  and North America .
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue ,  वॉशिंगटन , साथ 64 स्टोर्स in the puget ध्वनि प्रदेश of वॉशिंगटन  state and in the Portland , Oregon metropolitan area .
In economics , the money supply or money stock , is the  कुल राशि of मौद्रिक एसेट उपलब्धियाँ in an अर्थव्यवस्था at a विशिष्ट  time .
There are several ways to define `` money  , '' लकिन मानक उपायों प्रायः शामिल करेंसी in परिसंचरण और माँग जमा ( जमाकर्ताओं ' easily पहुँचा एसेट on the किताबे of वित्तीय संस्थानों  ) .
Money supply data are recorded and published , usually  by the सरकारी or the सेंट्रल बैंको of the देश  .
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored changes in money  सप्लाई क्युकी of इसके प्रभाव on the दाम स्तर , महंगाई , the एक्सचेंज रेट और the कारोबार साईकिल  .
That relation  between धन और कीमतें is historically संबद्ध साथ  the quantity theory of money .
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct  संबंध between money-supply विकास और long-term दाम महंगाई , at तनिक लिये रैपिड increases  in the amount of money in the economy .
That is , a  देश ऐसे as ज़िम्बाब्वे जिससे देखी रैपिड increases in  its money supply also saw rapid increases in prices ( hyperinflation ) .
This is  एक कारण लिये the रिलायंस on मौद्रिक नीति as a  means of controlling inflation .
The  प्रकृति of इस causal कड़ी  is the subject of contention .
Some heterodox economists argue that the  धन सप्लाई is endogenous ( संकल्पित by the workings of the अर्थव्यवस्था ,  not by the central bank ) and that the sources of inflation must be found in the distributional structure of the economy .
In addition ,  those अर्थशास्त्रियों देखकर the सेंट्रल बैंको 's कंट्रोल over the  money supply as feeble say that there are two weak links between the growth of the money supply and the inflation rate .
First , in the aftermath of a recession , when many  संसाधन हैं underutilized , an बढ़ाएँ in the धन सप्लाई can कारण a sustained बढ़ाएँ in  real production instead of inflation .
Second , if the velocity of  धन , i.e. , the अनुपात between नाममात्र जीडीपी और धन सप्लाई , परिवर्तन , an बढ़ाएँ  in the money supply could have either no effect , an exaggerated effect , or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP .
लोगो लिये  IMAX .
Warren Theatre  imax सिनेमा , wichita , कान्सास  , USA , 601 seats .
A  तुलना between 35 mm और 15/70  mm negative areas .
IMAX ( an  संक्षिप्त लिये चित्र अधिकतम ) is a गति चित्र फिल्मी स्वरूप और  a set of cinema projection standards created by the Canadian company IMAX Corporation .
IMAX has  the क्षमता to रिकार्ड और प्रदर्शक बिंब of दूर वृहद आकार  and resolution than conventional film systems .
Since 2002 , some feature films have been  परिवर्तित ( or upgraded ) into imax स्वरूप लिये प्रदर्शक in imax थिएटर और कुछ have भी महरूम partially  shot in IMAX .
IMAX is the most widely used  प्रणाली लिये special-venue फिल्मी प्रस्तुतियों  .
, there are  697 imax थिएटर in  52 countries .
Today  's खास is a कनाडाई children 's टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ  produced by Clive VanderBurgh at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987 .
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and Values  channel/odyssey ( अभी the hallmark चैनल ) as खूब as अनेक pbs स्टेशन throughout the संयुक्त राज्य  .
It was set in a department store , based on the  फ्लैगशिप स्थान of the अभी defunct सिम्पसन 's in टोरंटो  .
Many sequences for  it यहूद शॉट at the महारानी गली  West and Yonge Street store after hours .
Constitutionalism , in its most  सामान्य अर्थ , is `` a जटिल of विचार , attitudes , और पैटर्न of बर्ताव elaborating the principle कि the प्राधिकार of सरकारी गर्भाशयी  from and is limited by a body of fundamental law '' .
A political organization is constitutional to  the extent कि it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of शक्ति कंट्रोल लिये the सुरक्षा of the  interests and liberties of the citizenry , including those that may be in the minority `` .
As described  by राजनैतिक वैज्ञानिक और संवैधानिक विद्वान  David Fellman :
An ice-cream  सिरदर्द , भी ज्ञात as दिमाग फ्रीज , cold-stimulus सिरदर्द , or इसके दिए वैज्ञानिक नाम sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( अर्थ `` तंत्रिका पीड़ा of the sphenopalatine  ganglion `` ) , is a form of brief cranial pain or headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops .
It is caused by having something  ठंडा टच the छत of the मुँह ( तालु ) , और is believed to परिणाम इससे a तंत्रिका जवाब causing रैपिड constriction  and swelling of blood vessels or a `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head .
The rate  of सेवन लिये ठंडा भोजन रै महरूम पढ़ाई  as a contributing factor .
There are people who can not  अनुभव `` दिमाग फ्रीज '' or समान लक्षण  .
The term ice-cream headache has been in use since at  तनिक 31 जनवरी 1937 , contained in a जर्नल प्रविष्टि by रेबेका timbres प्रकाशित in the 1939 किताब we किया n't पूछो यूटोपिया  : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia .
The first published use of the term brain freeze  , as it pertains to cold-induced headaches , थी on 27 may 1991  .
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s '' rather than `` z ''  ) is a स्कॉट्स कविता लिखा by रॉबर्ट burns in 1788 और नियत to the धुन of a परंपरागत लोक सोंग  ( Roud # 6294 ) .
It is well known in many countries , especially in the English-speaking world  ; इसके परंपरागत उपयोग होने to celebrate the प्रारंभ of the नई साल at the स्ट्रोक of मध्यरात्रि  .
By  एक्सटेंशन , it is भी सुंग at अंत्येष्टि , graduations और as a विदाई or समाप्ति  to other occasions .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय लड़के स्काउट युवावस्था गति , in अनेक देशों , उपयोग  it as a close to jamborees and other functions .
The song 's Scots title  may be अनूदित into अंग्रेज़ी वस्तुतः as `` बूढ़ा long चूंकि '' , or अधिक idiomatically , `` long long पहले '' , `` दिनों गए by '' or  `` old times '' .
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '' , as it appears  in the पहला लकीर of the कोरस , might be loosely अनूदित as `` लिये  ( the sake of ) old times '' .
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also used in similar poems by Robert  ayton ( 1570–1638 ) , allan ramsay ( 1686–1757 ) , और जेम्स वाटसन ( 1711 ) as खूब as पुरानी लोक गीतों  predating Burns .
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase `` In the days of auld lang syne ''  as the समतुल्य of `` एकबार upon  a time ...
`` in his  retelling of परी किस्से in the स्कॉट्स भाषा  .
Ben  schulz , खिलाड़ी of leeroy जेनकींस at  BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins , sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins  और प्रायः elongated साथ numerous अतिरिक्त अक्षर , is an अंतरजाल मीम नामित लिये a खिलाड़ी अक्षर  created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's MMORPG , World of Warcraft .
The character  became लोकप्रिय due to a वीडियो of the खेल कि  circulated around the Internet .
The phenomenon has  चूंकि स्प्रेड परे the सीमाएँ of the गेमिंग जातियाँ into अन्य  online and mainstream media .
Oscar Grant was fatally shot  by बार्ट पुलिस अधिकारी योहानेस mehserle in ओकलैंड , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त राज्य  , in the early morning hours of New Year 's Day 2009 .
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit train returning from San Francisco  , बार्ट पुलिस अधिकारियों detained ऑस्कर ग्रान्ट और अनेक अन्य यात्री on the मंच at the fruitvale बार्ट स्टेशन  .
Officer Johannes  mehserle और another अधिकारी यहूद restraining ग्रान्ट , जो थी सजदा  and allegedly resisting arrest .
Officer  mehserle stood और , according to गवाह , कहा : `` मिलेंगी वापस ,  I 'm gon na tase him . ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant once in the back  ; mehserle appeared दंग , put उसके हैंड्स to उसके सिर और exclaimed , `` oh , my परमेश्वर !  ''
दौरान उसके अदालत गवाही , mehserle कहा कि ग्रान्ट  then exclaimed , `` You shot me ! ''
Grant turned  आउट to be निहत्थे ; he थी सुनाया मुर्दे the अगला morning  at Highland Hospital in Oakland .
The  कार्यक्रम यहूद captured on अनेक डिजिटल वीडियो  and cell phone cameras .
The footage was  disseminated to मीडिया आउटलेट और to विभिन्न वेबसाइटों  , where it was watched millions of times .
The  following दिनों देखी दोनो शांतिपूर्ण  and violent protests .
The shooting  रै महरूम variously labeled an involuntary manslaughter  and a summary execution .
On January 13 ,  alameda काउंटी prosecutors चार्ज mehserle  with murder for the shooting .
He resigned his  स्थिति और pleaded नहीं अपराधी  .
The trial  began on जून 10 , 2010  .
Michael Rains , Mehserle 's criminal  रक्षा attorney , argued कि mehserle mistakenly शॉट ग्रान्ट साथ उसके पिस्टल , intending to उपयोग उसके  Taser when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband .
Pretrial filings  argue कि उसके क्लाएंट किया नहीं कमिट first-degree हत्या और पूछा a लॉस एंजिल्स न्यायधीश to instruct  the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal .
Oakland civil rights attorney John Burris filed a  $ 25 लाख wrongful मौत अर्जी विरूद्ध बार्ट on निमित्त  of Grant 's family .
On July 8 , 2010 , the jury  लौटे इसके verdict : mehserle थी मिला अपराधी of involuntary manslaughter  and not guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter .
आरंभिक विरोध विरूद्ध the सत्ताधारी यहूद शांतिपूर्वक  organized ; looting , arson , destruction of property , and small riots broke out after dark .
nearly 80 लोगों यहूद  eventually arrested .
On Friday , July 9 , 2010 , the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil  अधिकारों मामला विरूद्ध mehserle ; the संघीय सरकारी can prosecute उसे independently लिये the वही अधिनियम  under the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy .
The Department of Justice will be  working साथ the u.S. attorney 's दफ्तर in सैन फ्रांसिस्को और  the FBI .
On  नवम्बर 5 , 2010 , mehserle थी sentenced to दो सालो ,  minus time served .
He served  उसके समय in the लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी कारावास , occupying  a private cell away from other prisoners .
He  थी released on जून  13 , 2011 and is now on parole .
Major  प्रतिनिधि of the हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण  .
The Harlem  पुनर्जागरण थी a सांस्कृतिक गति  that spanned the 1920s .
at the समय , it थी ज्ञात as the `` नई नीग्रो गति  '' , named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke .
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of New York City , many  french-speaking ब्लैक लेखक इससे अफ़्रीकी और caribbean colonies जो जिया in पेरिस यहूद  also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance .
The  हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण is unofficially पहचाना  to have spanned from about 1919 until the early or mid-1930s .
अनेक of इसके विचार जिया on much  longer .
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '' , as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem  पुनर्जागरण , थी लगाई between 1924 ( the साल कि अवसर : a जर्नल of नीग्रो जीवन hosted a पार्टी लिये ब्लैक लेखक जहाँ अनेक श्वेत प्रकाशक यहूद in उपस्थिति ) और 1929 ( the साल of the भण्डार  market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ) .
African States  between 500 bce और  1500 CE
obelisk at टेम्पल of लक्सर  , Egypt .
c. 1200  BCE .
अफ़्रीकी नाईट of baguirmi in  full padded armour suit .
The history of Africa begins with the prehistory of Africa and the emergence of Homo  sapiens in ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी , continuing into the उपस्थित as a patchwork of विविध और नीतियां विकासशील स्वदेश राज्य .
कुछ जल्दी प्रमाण of कृषि in अफ़्रीकी तिथियाँ इससे 16,000  BCE , and metallurgy from about 4000 BCE .
The recorded  इतिहास of जल्दी सभ्यता arose in मिश्र , और बाद in  Nubia , the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa .
During the Middle  आयु , islam स्प्रेड through  the regions .
Crossing the  मग़रिब और the सहेल , a प्रमुख बीच of  Muslim culture was Timbuktu .
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture , Mali Empire  , ashanti साम्राज्य , किंगडम of mapungubwe , किंगडम of ज्या , किंगडम of saloum , किंगडम of baol , किंगडम of ज़िम्बाब्वे , किंगडम of kongo ,  Ancient Carthage , Numidia , Mauretania , the Aksumite Empire , the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate .
From the late 15th century ,  europeans और arabs took स्लेव इससे वेस्ट , सेंट्रल और southeast अफ़्रीकी विदेशी in the अफ़्रीकी  slave trade .
European colonization of Africa developed  rapidly in the हाथापाई लिये अफ़्रीकी of the लेट 19th और जल्दी 20th सदियां  .
Following struggles for  स्वतंत्रता in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप , as खूब as a weakened यूरोपीय बाद the दूसरी संसार युद्ध ; decolonization  took place .
Africa 's history has been challenging for researchers in the field  of अफ़्रीकी अध्ययन क्युकी of the किल्लत of लिखा स्त्रोत in विशाल भाग of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी  .
Scholarly techniques such as the  रिकॉर्डिंग of मौखिक इतिहास , ऐतिहासिक भाषाविज्ञान , पुरातत्व और आनुवंशिकी have महरूम  crucial .
curry फोली थी the पहला खिलाड़ी in प्रमुख  League Baseball history to hit for the cycle .
In baseball , hitting  लिये the साईकिल is the accomplishment of एक बैटर hitting  a single , a double , a triple , and a home run in the same game .
collecting the हिट्स in कि अनुक्रम is ज्ञात  as a `` natural cycle '' .
Cycles are uncommon in Major League  बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ) , और have occurred 294 टाइम्स चूंकि the पहला by curry  Foley in 1882 .
The cycle is roughly as common as a  no-hitter ( 279 आवृत्ति in एमएलबी इतिहास ) ; it रै महरूम पुकारा `` एक of the  rarest '' and `` most difficult feats '' in baseball .
Based  on 2009 अप्रिय स्तर , the संभाव्यता of an औसत एमएलबी खिलाड़ी hitting लिये a साईकिल विरूद्ध an  average team in a game is approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams .
In other  बेसबॉल लीग , the साईकिल is हासिल  less frequently .
Through September 4 , 2008 ,  62 खिलाड़ी in निप्पन पेशेवर बेसबॉल ( npb ) , the top-level बेसबॉल  organization in Japan , have hit for the cycle , the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara .
Two players have  hit लिये the साईकिल on the वही दिन एकबार in npb  history ; this has occurred twice in MLB history .
One NPB  खिलाड़ी रै भी hit लिये the साईकिल in an npb  All-Star game .
No  खिलाड़ी रै कभी hit लिये the साईकिल in the  MLB All-Star Game or the postseason .
The main  स्लेव रूट in मध्यकालीन अफ़्रीकी  .
This article discusses systems ,  इतिहास , और प्रभाव of गुलामी भीतर अफ़्रीकी  .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade ,  maafa , और गुलामी in समकालीन अफ़्रीकी लिये अन्य चर्चाएँ  .
`` स्लेव हस्तांतरण in  Africa '' .
Europeans  प्रायः किया नहीं डालें the आंतरिक  regions .
Slavery  in अफ़्रीकी रै existed throughout the महाद्वीप लिये  many centuries , and continues in the current day .
Systems of servitude and slavery were  आम in अनेक भाग of the महाद्वीप , as वे यहूद in much  of the ancient world .
In most African societies where  गुलामी थी प्रचलित , the enslaved लोगों यहूद largely treated  as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab  स्लेव व्यापार और अटलांटिक स्लेव व्यापार began , अनेक of the लोकल स्लेव प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives  for slave markets outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical  अफ़्रीकी थी practiced in अनेक अलग फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of  these do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world .
Debt  गुलामी , enslavement of युद्ध captives , सैन्य गुलामी , और दण्ड गुलामी  were all practiced in various parts of Africa .
Although there  था महरूम कुछ trans-saharan व्यापार इससे the आंतरिक of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions , गुलामी थी a छोटी भाग of the आर्थिक जीवन  of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ) .
Slave practices were again transformed with European  colonization of अफ़्रीकी और the औपचारिक abolition of गुलामी in the जल्दी 1900s  .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications , processes and CPU usage , commit charge and memory information , network activity and statistics ,  logged-in उपयोक्ता , और प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ , 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ जिससे भरता the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly , e.g , `` प्रक्रम एक्सप्लोरर '' , `` विस्तारित कार्य मैनेजर '' , `` anvir कार्य मैनेजर '' , `` प्रक्रम हैकर '' , और `` प्रणाली एक्सप्लोरर  '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set  प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं , प्रोसेसर अपनापन , forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं , और  shut down , restart , hibernate or log off from Windows .
Windows  कार्य मैनेजर थी introduced साथ  Windows NT 4.0 .
Previous versions of  खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य सूची अनुप्रयोग , जिससे था दूर कम सुविधाएँ  .
The task list was capable of listing  फिलहाल कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें , or बनाना a नई प्रक्रम  .
In Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is also  उपस्थित कि allows अभिगम to standby , hibernate , फेरे बंद , restart  , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows (  microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x , खिड़कियाँ 95 , खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as कार्य to प्रदर्शक the कार्यक्रम फिलहाल कार्यशील  .
This  संचिका थी चलाया by कार्यशील the taskman.exe संचिका इससे the  C : \Windows directory .
The Troop is an  american-canadian live-action , सिंगल कैमरा कॉमेडी -adventure टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय a तिकड़ी of teenagers जो  fight and capture monsters and other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional town of Lakewood .
Created and executive produced  by अधिकतम burnett , ग्रेग कूलिज और क्रिस मॉर्गन , the श्रेणी premiered  on Nickelodeon on September 18 , 2009 .
The second season premiered on June 25 ,  2011 और निकलोडियन रद्द the श्रेणी मिडवे through it 's दूसरी  season .
The remaining episodes of  ऋतु 2 यहूद aired on nicktoons मगर the  last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area , the  लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of the कांगो ( drc ) is घर to a विशाल संभावित of प्राकृतिक संसाधन और खनिज माल , इसके untapped जमा of कच्चा खनिज हैं अनुमानित to be लायक in excess of us $ 24 खरब , yet the अर्थव्यवस्था of the drc रै अस्वीकृत drastically  since the mid-1980s .
At the time of its independence in 1960 , DRC was the  दूसरी सबसे industrialized देश in अफ़्रीकी बाद दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; it boasted a thriving खनन सेक्टर और इसके कृषि  sector was relatively productive .
If the viewer  stares at इस चित्र लिये 20–60 सेकेंड और stares at a श्वेत ऑब्जेक्ट , a ऋणात्मक afterimage होगा  appear ( in this case , it will be cyan on magenta ) .
इस can भी be हासिल by the दर्शक closing his/her आँखें और  tilting their head up .
An afterimage or ghost image  or चित्र burn-in is an ऑप्टिकल भ्रम कि refers to an चित्र continuing to appear in एक 's दृष्टि बाद the एक्सपोज़र to the  original image has ceased .
One of the most common afterimages is the bright glow that seems to float before one  's आँखें बाद looking into a लाइट सोर्स लिये a few सेकेंड  .
closing the नजर can सहायता achieve a बेहतर भाव  of the color in its own aspect .
afterimages आइये in दो फ़ॉर्म , ऋणात्मक ( उलट  ) and positive ( retaining original color ) .
The process behind positive afterimages is  अनजान , हालांकि विचार to be सम्बन्धित to neural अनुकूलन  .
On the  अन्य हाथ , ऋणात्मक afterimages हैं a retinal  phenomenon and are well understood .
Lost is an American serial drama television  श्रेणी कि premiered on सितंबर 22 , 2004 on the अमरीकी  Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) .
the श्रेणी थी निर्मित by J. J. abrams और डैमन lindelof , आधारित  upon an original pilot script titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber .
Six seasons of  the दिखाएँ aired , in जोड to numerous काटें  shows to recap previous episodes .
ABC announced that Lost  होता समाप्त बाद छह सीज़न , having उत्पादित a कुल of 121  episodes .
The series follows the past , present , and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a plane crash  on a यात्री जेट , oceanic उड़ान 815 , उड़ती इससे सिडनी to लॉस एंजिल्स बाद it क्रैश on a तीव्र द्वीप  in the South Pacific .
The series also  शामिल कहानियां of the जीवनदान of लोगों already जीना on the द्वीप — वे शामिल the `` अन्य `` , जो initially antagonize the survivors , as खूब  as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana .
Each  एपीसोड typically सुविधाएँ कार्रवाई on the द्वीप as खूब as a द्वितीयक कथानक इससे another  point in a character 's life .
Season 6 features a detailing of the lives of the  survivors in a अलग वास्तविकता , as if the उड़ान था never क्रैश  .
In the following list , the term `` featured character ( s  ) '' refers to the अक्षर or वर्ण जो हैं प्रदर्शित in the द्वितीयक कथानक  of each episode .
`` no  .
in series '' refers to  the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in the overall श्रेणी ,  whereas `` No .
in season ''  refers to the एपीसोड 's क्रमांक in प्रत्येक particular  season .
`` U.S. viewers (  लाख ) '' refers to the क्रमांक of अमेरिकी in लाखो जो देखी  the episode live .
A total of 121 episodes of Lost  यहूद उत्पादित , the पिछला of जिससे aired on may 23  , 2010 .
All seasons are available on DVD in  regions 1–4 और on blu-ray in  Regions A and B .
चपटा फीट ( भी पुकारा pes planus or गिरे arches ) is a औपचारिक सन्दर्भ to a चिकित्सा कंडीशन in जिससे the मेहराब of the पैर collapses , साथ the संपूर्ण एकमात्र of the पैर coming into  complete or near-complete contact with the ground .
In some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general  जनसांख्यिकी ) the मेहराब बस never develops in एक पैर  ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ) .
Three studies (  देखिए citations नीचे in सैन्य खण्ड ) of सैन्य रंगरूटों have दिखाया no प्रमाण of बाद increased चोट , or पैर समस्याएं , due to चपटा फीट , in  a population of people who reach military service age without prior foot problems .
However , these studies can  नहीं be प्रयुक्त to न्यायधीश संभावित भविष्य क्षति इससे इस कंडीशन जब diagnosed  at younger ages .
They also can not be applied to persons whose flat feet are associated with foot  लक्षण , or निश्चित लक्षण in अन्य भाग of the देह ( ऐसे as the  leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot .
Generation X ,  commonly abbreviated to gen x , is the पीढी born बाद the पश्चिमी post-world  War II baby boom .
Demographers , historians and  टीकाकारों उपयोग शुरूआत जनम तिथियाँ इससे the जल्दी 1960s to the जल्दी 1980s  .
The term was popularized by Douglas Coupland 's 1991 novel  पीढी x : किस्से लिये an त्वरित संस्कृति  .
Before that , it had been  प्रयुक्त लिये विभिन्न subcultures or countercultures  after the 1950s .
Pressure ulcers , also known  as decubitus छाले or bedsores , हैं स्थानीयकृत चोटों to the स्किन and/or underlying ऊतक प्रायः over a बोनी prominence , as a परिणाम of दबाव  , or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction .
Most commonly this will be the sacrum ,  coccyx , एड़ियों or the कूल्हों , लकिन अन्य साइट ऐसे as the elbows , अदब , ankles  or the back of the cranium can be affected .
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure applied to soft  ऊतक so कि रक्त प्रवाह to the नरम ऊतक is completely or partially  obstructed .
Shear is also a cause ; shear pulls  on रक्त बरतन कि फीड the स्किन  .
Pressure ulcers most  commonly develop in व्यक्तियों जो हैं नहीं चलती परिचय or हैं confined  to wheelchairs .
It is widely believed that  अन्य कारकों can influence the सहिष्णुता of स्किन लिये दबाव और shear thereby increasing the रिस्क of दबाव अल्सर विकास  .
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition , microclimate ( skin wetness caused by  sweating or incontinence ) , रोगों कि reduce रक्त प्रवाह to the स्किन , ऐसे as arteriosclerosis  or diseases that reduce the feeling in the skin , such as paralysis or neuropathy .
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by the age of the person , medical  शर्तें ( ऐसे as arteriosclerosis , मधुमेह or संक्रमण ) , धूम्रपान or medications  such as antiinflammatory drugs .
Although often prevented and treatable if found early , pressure ulcers can be very difficult to prevent in  critically बीमार मरीजों , frail बड़ो , व्हीलचेयर उपयोक्ता ( विशेषकर जहाँ स्पाइनल चोट is शामिल ) और  terminally ill patients .
Primary  रोकथाम is to redistribute दबाव by turning the रोगी  regularly .
The benefit of turning to avoid further sores is  खूब प्रलेखित चूंकि at तनिक the 19th सदी  .
In addition to turning and re-positioning  the रोगी in bed or व्हीलचेयर , खाने a संतुलित आहार साथ पर्याप्त प्रोटीन और keeping the स्किन  free from exposure to urine and stool is very important .
The prevalence of pressure ulcers in hospital settings is high ,  लकिन सुधार हैं होने बना  .
According to the  2010 ipup ( अंतरराष्ट्रीय दबाव अल्सर व्यापकता सर्वेक्षण ) conducted in कनाडा , वहीँ थी a significant घटी  in the overall facility-acquired prevalence of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010 .
Ulcers were  सबसे commonly पहचाना at the sacral/coccyx अल्सर स्थान ; however , एड़ी छाले यहूद the सबसे  common facility-acquired location in the survey .
Overboard is a 1987 American  रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी अभिनीत goldie hawn और कर्ट रसेल  .
It was directed by Garry Marshall , produced by  roddy mcdowell , और loosely प्रेरित by the 1974 इतालवी फिल्मी  Swept Away .
In turn , Overboard  थी adapted into the 2006 दक्षिण कोरियाई टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  , Couple or Trouble .
Green Bay is a city in and the county seat of Brown  काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन , स्तिथ at the सिर of ग्रीन खाड़ी , a sub-basin  of Lake Michigan , at the mouth of the Fox River .
It has an  उन्नयन of ऊपर समुद्र स्तर और is स्तिथ उत्तर  of Milwaukee .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 104,057 at  the 2010 census .
It is the  third-largest नगर in the राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन ,  after Milwaukee and Madison .
It is also  the third-largest नगर on the वेस्ट shore of झील मिशिगन  , after Chicago and Milwaukee .
Green Bay is home to the Green Bay Packers of  the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग , बनाना it by दूर the smallest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the यूएसए to मेजबान a प्रमुख  professional sports franchise .
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area , which covers Brown , Kewaunee , and  oconto काउंटी और था a संयुक्त जनसांख्यिकी of 282,599 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Green Bay is an industrial city with several  meatpacking और पेपर पौधे , और a बंदरगाहों on ग्रीन खाड़ी , an भुजा of झील मिशिगन कि स्थानीय कॉल the खाड़ी  of Green Bay , to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city .
It is home to the  नेशनल रेलरोड संग्रहालय ; the नेविली पब्लिक संग्रहालय , साथ  exhibitions of art , history , and science ; and the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay .
Luteinizing hormone ( LH ,  भी ज्ञात as lutropin और sometimes lutrophin ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by gonadotroph कोशिकाएं  in the anterior pituitary gland .
In females , an acute rise of  lh ( `` lh surge '' ) triggers ovulation और विकास  of the corpus luteum .
In males , where LH  था भी महरूम पुकारा अंतरालीय cell-stimulating हार्मोन ( icsh ) , it stimulates leydig  cell production of testosterone .
It acts  synergistically साथ  FSH .
Selena  quintanilla-pérez ( अप्रैल 16 , 1971 – कूच 31 , 1995 ) , ज्ञात बस  as Selena , was an American singer-songwriter .
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best  selling लैटिन कलाकार of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड लिये उसके चौदह top-ten singles  in the Top Latin Songs chart , including seven number-one hits .
Selena had the most successful singles of 1994  और 1995 , `` amor prohibido `` और `` no me queda  Más `` .
She was called `` The Queen of Tejano music  `` और the मैक्सिकन समतुल्य of मैडोना  .
Selena  released उसके पहला एल्बम , सेलिना  y Los Dinos , at the age of twelve .
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987  tejano म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार और उतरा a रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध साथ emi a few सालो बाद  .
Her fame grew  throughout the जल्दी 1990s , विशेषकर in spanish-speaking देशों , और वो था begun रिकॉर्डिंग  in English as well .
Selena was murdered at the age of 23 on March 31 , 1995 by  yolanda saldívar , the पूर्व अध्यक्ष of उसके प्रशंसक क्लबों  .
On  अप्रैल 12 , 1995 , दो सप्ताह बाद उसके मौत , जार्ज W. बुश , राज्यपाल of टेक्सास at the समय , घोषित उसके  birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas .
Warner Bros. produced Selena , a film based on  उसके जीवन अभिनीत जेनिफर लोपेज़ , in  1997 .
Selena 's life was also the  आधार of the musical सेलिना forever अभिनीत वेरोनिका  Vazquez as Selena .
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated with a life-sized bronze  प्रतिमा ( mirador de la flor in कॉर्पस christi , टेक्सास ) और a सेलिना संग्रहालय  opened there .
She has sold  over 60 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी , बनाना उसके एक of the  best-selling artists of all time .
She is  भी the तभी मादा कलाकार to have पाँच एल्बम in u.s . बिलबोर्ड  200 at the same time .
जर्मनी stahlhelm इससे  World War II
तमगा of the bolivian फौज colorados रेजीमेंट , प्रर्दशित a stahlhelm और  two crossed bayonets
stahlhelm ( बहुवचन , stahlhelme  ) is German for `` steel helmet '' .
The Imperial German Army began to replace the  परंपरागत boiled-leather pickelhaube ( spiked कॉम्बैट हेल्मेट ) साथ the stahlhelm दौरान संसार  War I in 1916 .
The  पद stahlhelm refers दोनो to a जेनेरिक स्टील हेल्मेट , और अधिक specifically  to the distinctive ( and iconic ) German design .
The Stahlhelm , with its distinctive `` coal scuttle `` shape , was an instantly  recognizable प्रतीक लिये सैन्य imagery और became a आम तत्व of सैन्य प्रचार on दोनो पहलू , बस जैसे the pickelhaube  before it .
Its name was also used by the Stahlhelm , a  अर्धसैनिक राष्ट्रवादी संगठन स्थापित at the समाप्त of 1918  .
glow-in-the-dark may  refer to:
जीवदीप्ति , the उत्पादन और उत्सर्जन of लाइट by  a living organism
Chemiluminescence ,  is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट ( संदीप्ति ) बगैर  emission of heat
Phosphorescence  , a विशिष्ट प्रकार of photoluminescence सम्बन्धित  to fluorescence
Radioluminescence , production  of संदीप्ति in a सामग्री by the बमबारी of आयनकारी  radiation
Glow in  the अंधेरा दौरे , a 2008 कॉन्सर्ट दौरे by kanye  West
फ्रैंकफर्ट विमानक्षेत्र serves as a हब नगर लिये लुफ़्थान्सा और receives  flights from Star Alliance carriers .
Airline hubs are airports ranked  as विशाल , मीडियम , छोटी , और non-hubs as एक of the faa विमानक्षेत्र श्रेणी जिससे हैं re-evaluated प्रत्येक साल  based on number of commercial passengers .
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an  विमानक्षेत्र कि an एयरलाइन उपयोग as a ट्रांसफ़र पाइंट to मिलेंगी यात्री to उनके intended गंतव्य  .
It is part of a hub and  spoke मॉडल , जहाँ travelers चलती between एयरपोर्ट नहीं परोसा by सीधा फ़्लाइट बदलें planes en रूट to  their destinations .
This is as  opposed to the पाइंट to पाइंट मॉडल  .
Many hubs of the airlines are also situated at  एयरपोर्ट in the शहरों of the संबंधित सिर कार्यालयों  .
Some airlines may use only  a सिंगल हब , जबकि अन्य एयरलाइंस उपयोग अनेक hubs  .
Hubs are  प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो यात्री फ़्लाइट as  well as cargo flights .
Many airlines also use focus cities , which  फलन much the वही as hubs  .
Airlines may  भी उपयोग द्वितीयक hubs , a non-technical पद लिये  large focus cities .
A hub in the  मध्य of a रूट is अधिक प्रभावी than at either समाप्त as connecting ट्रैफ़िक अधिक easily भरता the प्लेन  - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route .
खोखला lacedaemon  .
Site of the Menelaion , the shrine to Helen and Menelaus  constructed anciently in the कांस्य आयु नगर कि stood on the हिल of therapne on the बाएँ बैंको  of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta .
Across the valley  the successive ridges of माउंट taygetus हैं in प्रमाण  .
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ) , or Lacedaemon , was a prominent  city-state in प्राचीन यूनानियों , situated on the बैंको of the eurotas नदी in laconia , in south-eastern  Peloponnese .
It emerged as a political  एंटिटी around the 10th सदी bc , जब the आक्रमणकारी dorians subjugated  the local , non-Dorian population .
Around 650 BC , it  रोज़ to become the प्रबल सैन्य land-power in प्राचीन  Greece .
Given its  सैन्य pre-eminence , स्पार्टा थी पहचाना as the overall नेता of the संयुक्त यूनानी शक्तियां  during the Greco-Persian Wars .
Between 431 and  404 bc , स्पार्टा थी the प्रिंसिपल दुश्मन of एथेंस दौरान the peloponnesian  War , from which it emerged victorious , though at great cost .
Sparta 's defeat by Thebes in the Battle of  leuctra in 371 bc ended स्पार्टा 's prominent भूमिका in  Greece .
However  , it कायम इसके राजनैतिक स्वतंत्रता जबतक the रोमन conquest  of Greece in 146 BC .
It then underwent a long period of  मनाही , विशेषकर in the मध्य आयु , जब अनेक spartans स्थानांतरित to सजीव in mystras  .
आधुनिक स्पार्टा is the पूंजी of the यूनानी क्षेत्रीय ईकाई of laconia और  a center for the processing of goods such as citrus and olives .
Sparta  थी अद्वितीय in प्राचीन यूनानियों लिये इसके सोशल  system and constitution , which completely focused on military training and excellence .
Its inhabitants were classified as Spartiates (  spartan नागरिकों , जो enjoyed पूरा अधिकारों ) , mothakes ( non-spartan फ़्री मेन उठाया as spartans ) , perioikoi ( freedmen ) , और  Helots ( state-owned serfs , enslaved non-Spartan local population ) .
Spartiates  underwent the कठोर agoge प्रशिक्षण और शिक्षा regimen , और spartan phalanges  were widely considered to be among the best in battle .
Spartan women enjoyed  considerably अधिक अधिकारों और समता to मेन than  elsewhere in the classical world .
Sparta was the  विषय of fascination in इसके अपना दिन , as खूब as in the वेस्ट following the पुनरुद्धार  of classical learning .
This love or admiration of  स्पार्टा is ज्ञात as laconism or laconophilia  .
Fantasy football is an interactive competition in which  उपयोक्ता compete विरूद्ध प्रत्येक अन्य as सामान्य प्रबंधक of आभासी  teams .
The players that an  व्यक्तिगत is समर्थ to मैनेज हैं पेशेवर अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी in the नेशनल  Football League .
the अलग क्रियाएँ लोगों हैं समर्थ to मेक हैं drafting  , trading , adding or dropping players , and changing rosters .
Due to the growth of the Internet , Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity , particularly because Fantasy football providers such as ESPN , Yahoo , CBS  , और the एनएफएल itself हैं समर्थ to रखना track of आंकडे entirely ऑनलाइन , eliminating the need to जाँच बक्सा स्कोर और अखबारों regularly to रखना track of खिलाड़ी  .
Most leagues have  a सिंगल सप्ताह चैंपियनशिप in सप्ताह 16 of the एनएफएल  season .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN  2010 projections ( रेड , नारंगी , ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( ब्लैक  ) .
Actual  अंकित जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in ब्लू  .
According to the  उच्चतम अनुमान , the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to  the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is the  कुल क्रमांक of जीना इंसानो on धरती  .
As of today , it is estimated  to क्रमांक अरब by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो (  USCB ) .
The USCB estimates that  the संसार जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब  on March 12 , 2012 .
according to a पृथक अनुमान by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी  Fund , it reached this milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the  समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the ब्लैक मौत in 1350 , जब it stood at around 370 लाख  .
The highest rates of growth – global  जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the 1950s , और  for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate  peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , और था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 %  by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million ,  और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख , जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल , और हैं अपेक्षित to बढ़ाएँ  to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current  projections दिखाएँ a जारी बढ़ाएँ in जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ) , साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to पहुँचें between  7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term  estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास , stagnation , or भी overall  decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some  विश्लेषकों have questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार जनसांख्यिकी विकास , citing the growing  pressures on the environment , global food supplies , and energy resources .
skeletal मांसपेशियां  homo sapiens
इस is a तालिका of मांसपेशियां of the इंसान  anatomy .
There are approximately 642  skeletal मांसपेशियां भीतर the ठेठ इंसान , और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां , मिला  on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless ,  the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां  differently , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
Examples  दायरा इससे 640 to 850  .
The muscles  of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन , मांसपेशियां of the  torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action  refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक मांसपेशी इससे the मानक  anatomical position .
In other positions ,  अन्य क्रियाएँ may be performed  .
A gold bar is a  मात्रा of परिष्कृत धात्विक सुनहरा of कोई आकार कि is बना by a बार निर्माता  meeting standard conditions of manufacture , labeling , and record keeping .
Larger gold  बार कि हैं उत्पादित by pouring the molten मेटल  into molds are called ingots .
Smaller bars may be manufactured by  minting or stamping इससे appropriately  rolled gold sheets .
The standard gold bar held as gold  reserves by सेंट्रल बैंको और traded among bullion डीलर is the 400-troy-ounce  ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold bar .
The kilobar , which is to say 1000 grams in mass , is the bar that  is अधिक manageable और is प्रयुक्त extensively लिये व्यापार और निवेश  .
The premium on these bars when traded is very  कम over the स्पॉट मान of the सुनहरा बनाना it आदर्श लिये छोटी हस्तांतरण between  banks and traders .
Most kilobars are flat , although some  निवेशकों , विशेषकर in यूरोपीय , prefer  the brick shape .
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19 , 1949 ) is a former American  फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग , playing लिये the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो इससे 1971 to 1982 , तब  for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings .
He is the father of current Denver  broncos क्वार्टरबैक peyton मैनिंग , वर्तमान नई यॉर्क दिग्गज starting क्वार्टरबैक एली मैनिंग  , and former Ole Miss receiver Cooper Manning .
वकालत is a राजनैतिक प्रक्रम by an व्यक्तिगत or समूह जिससे aims to influence public-policy  and resource allocation decisions within political , economic , and social systems and institutions .
Advocacy can include many activities that a person or organization undertakes including  मीडिया अभियान , पब्लिक बोलना , commissioning और प्रकाशन शोध or पोल or the दाखिल of an  amicus brief .
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy where a direct approach is made to legislators on an issue  जिससे plays a significant भूमिका in आधुनिक राजनीती  .
Research is beginning to explore how  वकालत समूह in the u.S. और कनाडा हैं using सोशल मीडिया  to facilitate civic engagement and collective action .
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de  méxico ) is a लंबवत तिरंगा of ग्रीन , श्वेत , और रेड साथ the नेशनल कोट of  arms charged in the center of the white stripe .
While the meaning of the colors has changed over time , these three colors were adopted by Mexico  following स्वतंत्रता इससे स्पेन दौरान the देश 's युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता , और subsequent पहला मैक्सिकन साम्राज्य  .
The current flag was adopted in 1968 , but the overall design has been  प्रयुक्त चूंकि 1821 , जब the पहला नेशनल ध्वज थी निर्मित  .
The  वर्तमान विधि of नेशनल प्रतीकों , विधि on the नेशनल बाहें , ध्वज , और  Anthem , that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984 .
Red ,  श्वेत , और ग्रीन हैं the रंगों of the नेशनल  liberation army in Mexico .
The central emblem is the Aztec  pictogram लिये tenochtitlan ( अभी मैक्सिको नगर ) , the बीच of  their empire .
It  recalls the लेजेंड कि प्रेरित the aztecs to  settle on what was originally a lake-island .
The form of  the कोट of बाहें थी सबसे recently संशोधित  in 1968 .
A ribbon in  the नेशनल रंगों is at the नीचे  of the coat of arms .
Throughout history , the flag has changed  चार टाइम्स , as the डिज़ाइन of the कोट of बाहें और the length-width ratios of the ध्वज have  been modified .
However , the coat  of बाहें रै था the वही सुविधाएँ throughout : an त्रिभुज , पकड़कर a serpent in इसके talon , is perched on शीर्ष of a prickly  pear cactus ; the cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake .
The coat of arms is derived from an Aztec legend that their gods told  उन्हें to निर्माण a नगर जहाँ वे स्पॉट an त्रिभुज on a nopal खाने a serpent ,  which is now Mexico City .
The current national flag  , the चौथी नेशनल ध्वज , is भी प्रयुक्त as the मैक्सिकन नवल ensign by जहाजों पंजीकृत in मैक्सिको  .
A destination  विपणन संगठन or सम्मेलन और आगंतुक ब्यूरो promotes a कस्बा ,  city , region , or country in order to increase the number of visitors .
It promotes the development and marketing of a  गंतव्य , focusing on सम्मेलन बिक्री , पर्यटन विपणन  , and services .
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing visits  इससे पर्यटकों और कारोबार travelers , जिससे generates overnight आवास लिये a गंतव्य , विज़िट to रेस्तरां , और खरीदारी revenues  .
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most  महत्वपूर्ण पर्यटन विपणन संगठन in उनके संबंधित पर्यटक गंतव्यों , as वे हैं सीधे जिम्मेदार लिये विपणन the गंतव्य ब्रांड through सफर और  tourism `` product awareness '' to visitors .
dmos उपज अरबों of डॉलर in सीधा और अप्रत्यक्ष आय और  taxes for their destinations ' economies with their marketing and sales expertise .
Destination marketing organizations are often called travel ,  सम्मेलन , विज़िटर , or पर्यटन bureaux , स्वागत centers , सूचना  centers and more .
regardless of the नाम , ये संगठन प्रस्ताव अनेक  services to the traveling public .
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is one of the largest species of deer in the world , and one of the  largest जमीन स्तनधारियों in उत्तर अमेरिका और पूर्वी  Asia .
It was long  believed to be a subspecies of the यूरोपीय रेड हिरण ( cervus elaphus ) , लकिन प्रमाण इससे a 2004 पढ़ाई of the mitochondrial डीएनए  indicates that the two are distinct species .
This animal should not be  उलझन साथ the larger मूस ( alces alces ) , to जिससे the नाम `` नीलगाय ''  applies in Eurasia .
Apart from the moose ,  the तभी अन्य सदस्य of the हिरण परिवार to प्रतिद्वंद्वी the नीलगाय in आकार is the दक्षिण एशियाई  sambar ( Rusa unicolor ) .
Elk range in  वन और forest-edge आवास , feeding on grasses  , plants , leaves , and bark .
Although native to North America and eastern Asia , they  have adapted खूब to देशों जहाँ वे have महरूम introduced , सहित  Argentina , Australia , and New Zealand .
Their  ग्रेट adaptability may threaten endemic प्रजाति और ecosystems  into which they have been introduced .
Male elk  have विशाल antlers जिससे  are shed each year .
males भी engage in ritualized समागम व्यवहार दौरान the rut , सहित posturing , antler कुश्ती  ( sparring ) , and bugling , a loud series of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males and attracts females .
Elk are  susceptible to a क्रमांक of संक्रामक रोगों , कुछ of जिससे can be transmitted  to livestock .
Efforts to  eliminate संक्रामक रोगों इससे नीलगाय populations , largely through टीकाकरण  , have had mixed success .
Some cultures revere  the नीलगाय as a आध्यात्मिक  force .
In parts of Asia , antlers and their  मखमल हैं प्रयुक्त in परंपरागत दवाइयाँ  .
Elk are hunted as a game species ;  the मांस is leaner और उच्चतर in प्रोटीन than  beef or chicken .
The George Washington University ( GW , GWU , or George  वॉशिंगटन ) is a व्यापक निजी , coeducational शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in  Washington , D.C. .
It awards certificates  , स्नातक डिग्री , मास्टर्स डिग्री ,  and PhDs across several dozen disciplines .
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress  on फ़रवरी 9 , 1821 as the columbian कॉलेज in the ज़िला of कोलंबिया  .
The lion ( Panthera  leo ) is एक of the चार बिग बिल्लियों in the genus पेंथेरा और a सदस्य of the परिवार  Felidae .
With some males  exceeding in वज़न , it is the second-largest जीना  cat after the tiger .
Wild  शेर फिलहाल मौजूद in sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी और in एशिया ( जहाँ an endangered remnant जनसांख्यिकी resides in गिर वन नेशनल पार्क in इण्डिया ) जबकि अन्य प्रकार of शेर  have disappeared from North Africa and Southwest Asia in historic times .
Until the late  pleistocene , परिचय 10,000 सालो पहले , the शेर थी the सबसे फैली विशाल जमीन स्तनधारी  after humans .
They were found in most of Africa ,  आरपार यूरेशिया इससे पश्चिमी यूरोपीय to इण्डिया , और in the americas इससे the yukon to पेरू  .
The lion is a vulnerable species  , having देखी a प्रमुख जनसांख्यिकी मनाही of 30–50 % over  the past two decades in its African range .
Lion populations are untenable outside  designated reserves और नेशनल पार्क  .
Although the cause of the  मनाही is नहीं fully समझा , आवास घाटा और विरोध साथ इंसानो हैं फिलहाल the महानतम कल्याणकारी  of concern .
Within Africa , the West  अफ़्रीकी शेर जनसांख्यिकी is विशेषकर  endangered .
Lions live  लिये 10–14 सालो in the जंगली , जबकि in captivity वे  can live longer than 20 years .
In the wild ,  males seldom सजीव longer than 10 सालो , as चोटों sustained इससे  continual fighting with rival males greatly reduce their longevity .
They typically inhabit savanna and  घासभूमि , हालांकि वे may लो to बुश  and forest .
Lions  हैं unusually सोशल compared to अन्य  cats .
A pride of lions consists of related  महिलाओं और औलाद और a छोटी क्रमांक of वयस्क males .
Groups of  मादा शेर typically हंट साथ , preying ज़्यादातर on  large ungulates .
Lions are apex and keystone predators ,  हालांकि वे scavenge as अवसर allows  .
जबकि शेर do नहीं typically हंट इंसानो  , some have been known to do so .
Sleeping mainly during the day , lions are  primarily nocturnal , हालांकि bordering on crepuscular in प्रकृति  .
Highly  distinctive , the पुरूष शेर is easily recognised by इसके माने , और इसके फेस is एक of the सबसे widely recognised  animal symbols in human culture .
Depictions have existed from the Upper  paleolithic काल , साथ उत्कीर्णन और paintings इससे the lascaux और chauvet गुफाएं  , through virtually all ancient and medieval cultures where they once occurred .
It has been extensively depicted in sculptures , in paintings , on  नेशनल ध्वज , और in समकालीन films और साहित्य .
Lions have been kept in  menageries चूंकि the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य , और have महरूम a कुंजी प्रजाति sought लिये प्रदर्शनी in zoos  over the world since the late 18th century .
Zoos are cooperating  विश्वव्यापी in प्रजनन कार्यक्रम लिये the endangered  Asiatic subspecies .
In the history of video games , the  सातवाँ पीढी of consoles is the पिछला पीढी , और शामिल consoles  released since late by Nintendo , Microsoft , and Sony .
लिये घर consoles , the सातवाँ पीढी began on 22 नवम्बर 2005 साथ the रिलीज of एक्सबॉक्स 360 और जारी साथ the रिलीज  of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006 , and Wii on 19 November 2006 .
Each new  कंसोल introduced a नई प्रकार of भेदन in  technology .
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions , the PlayStation 3  offered , in जोड to fhd गेमिंग , hd फिल्म प्लेबैक via a built-in 3d blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी , और the वी केन्द्रित  on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks .
Joining Nintendo in the motion market ,  सोनी released the प्लेस्टेशन मूव in सितंबर  2010 .
The PlayStation Move features motion  संवेदन गेमिंग , समान to कि of the वी  .
Microsoft also joined Sony  और निन्टेंडो , साथ इसके kinect  .
Unlike the other two  प्रणालियों ( प्लेस्टेशन 3 और वी ) , kinect करता नहीं उपयोग कोई परिरक्षक of कोई sort  and makes the users the `` controller . ''
Having sold  8 लाख इकाई in इसके पहला 60 दिनों on the मार्केट , kinect रै claimed the गिनीज  World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device '' .
While the Xbox 360  offers तार परिरक्षक as a स्टैंडअलोन उत्पाद , सब प्लेस्टेशन 3 परिरक्षक can be प्रयुक्त  in wired and wireless configurations .
Starting with handheld consoles , the seventh generation began on 21 November 2004 with the North American  परिचय of the निन्टेंडो ds as a `` तीसरा pillar '' , alongside निन्टेंडो 's मौजूदा खेल लड़के अग्रिम और gamecube  consoles .
The Nintendo DS ( NDS ) features a touch screen and built-in  माइक्रोफोन , और supports बेतार आईईईई 802.11 ( wi-fi ) मानकों  .
Additionally , the revised  संस्करण of the nds , the dsi , सुविधाएँ दो निर्मित in कैमरे , the क्षमता to डाउनलोड खेल  from the DSi store , and a web browser .
The PlayStation Portable , or  psp , released बाद the वही साल on 12 दिसम्बर 2004 , followed a  different pattern .
It became the  पहला हैंडहेल्ड वीडियो खेल कंसोल to उपयोग an ऑप्टिकल डिस्क स्वरूप ,  Universal Media Disc ( UMD ) , as its primary storage media .
Sony also gave the PSP  मजबूत multi-media काबिलियत , कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन 3 और अन्य  PSPs , and Internet connectivity .
the निन्टेंडो ds likewise रै कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल through the निन्टेंडो wi-fi कनेक्शन और निन्टेंडो ds ब्राउजर , as खूब  as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles .
Despite high sales numbers  लिये दोनो consoles , प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल बिक्री have consistently पिछड़ापन पीछे those of the निन्टेंडो ds ; nevertheless  , the PlayStation Portable has the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system .
Sgt . Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band ( often  shortened to sgt . pepper ) is the आठवीं स्टुडियो एल्बम by अंग्रेज़ी  rock band the Beatles .
Released in June 1967 , the album included songs such as ``  साथ a छोटी सहायता इससे my मित्रों `` , `` लुसी in the आसमान साथ ईंट `` , और `` a दिन in the जीवन  `` .
Continuing the artistic  maturation देखी on the बैंड 's एल्बम रिवाल्वर ( 1966 ) , sgt . pepper further रजि इससे the conventional पॉप चट्टान मुहावरा of the समय और incorporated  balladry , psychedelic , music hall , and symphonic influences .
During the Sgt . Pepper sessions , the group improved upon the quality of  उनके म्यूज़िक 's उत्पादन जबकि exploring प्रायोगिक रिकॉर्डिंग तकनीकों  .
निर्माता जार्ज मार्टिन 's अभिनव दृष्टिकोण शामिल  the use of an orchestra .
Widely acclaimed and imitated , the  एल्बम कवर , designed by अंग्रेज़ी पॉप कलाकारों पीटर ब्लेक और jann haworth , थी प्रेरित by a स्केच by पॉल mccartney कि चित्रित the बैंड पोज़ in सामने of a कोलाज  of some of their favourite celebrities .
sgt . pepper थी a विश्वव्यापी नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी , बिता 27 सप्ताह at the शीर्ष  of the UK Album Chart and 15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200 .
A seminal work in  the उभरते साइकेडेलिक चट्टान स्टाइल , the एल्बम थी critically acclaimed upon रिलीज और  won four Grammy Awards in 1968 .
With an estimated 32 million copies sold , it is one of  the संसार 's बेहतरीन selling  albums .
Sgt . Pepper is considered by many to be the  सबसे influential और प्रसिद्ध चट्टान एल्बम कभी , और रै महरूम नामित the महानतम एल्बम  of all time by both All Time Top 1000 Albums and Rolling Stone .
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that is  स्तिथ beneath the पार्श्ववर्ती फिशर on दोनो दिमागी बांटती of the mammalian दिमाग  .
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories , processing  संवेदी इनपुट , comprehending भाषा , storing नई यादें , जज्बात , और deriving  meaning .
The human lungs are the organs  of श्वसन in इंसानो  .
Humans have two  फेफड़े , a सही  lung and a left lung .
The right lung consists of three lobes while the left lung is  थोड़ा छोटी consisting of तभी दो निर्मोक ( the बाएँ फेफड़ों रै a `` हृदय पायदान '' allowing स्पेस लिये the दिल भीतर  the chest ) .
साथ , the फेफड़े contain लगभग of एयरवेज़ और 300 to 500 लाख alveoli , having a कुल सतह क्षेत्रफल of परिचय ( ) in वयस्कों — roughly  the same area as one side of a tennis court .
Furthermore , if all of the capillaries  कि घेर the alveoli यहूद unwound और रखी समाप्त to समाप्त  , they would extend for about .
Each lung weighs ,  इसलिए बनाना the संपूर्ण  organ about .
इंसान फेफड़े
The trachea divides into two  bronchi ( एक लिये प्रत्येक पक्ष ) at the स्तर of t4  .
This  जंक्शन is भी ज्ञात as the carina  .
The conducting zone contains the trachea , the bronchi ,  the bronchioles , और the टर्मिनल bronchioles the respiratory  zone contains the respiratory bronchioles , the alveolar ducts , and the alveoli .
The conducting  मण्डल और the respiratory stuffers ( लकिन नहीं the alveoli  ) are made up of airways .
The conducting zone has no gas exchange  साथ the रक्त , और is reinforced साथ उपास्थि in अनुक्रम to थाम खोलें the एयरवेज़  .
the conducting मण्डल warms the एयर  to and humidifies the air .
It also  cleanses the एयर by निकालना अणु  via cilia located on the walls of all the passageways .
The lungs are  घिरी by the पसली पिंजरा .
The  respiratory मण्डल is the साईट  of gas exchange with blood .
The sympathetic  बेचैन प्रणाली via noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the बीटा receptors कल्याणकारी  bronchodilation .
The parasympathetic nervous system via  acetylcholine , जिससे अधिनियमों on the m-3 muscarinic receptors , maintains the  resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle .
This action is related , although  माना पृथक इससे  bronchoconstriction .
Many  अन्य non-autonomic बेचैन और biochemical stimuli , सहित कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड  and oxygen , are also involved in the regulation process .
The pleural cavity is the potential space  between the parietal pleura , अस्तर the भीतरी वॉल of the thoracic पिंजरा , और the visceral  pleura lining the lungs .
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to refer  solely to alveolar ऊतक साथ respiratory bronchioles , alveolar नलिकाएं  and terminal bronchioles .
However , it often includes any form of lung tissue  , भी सहित bronchioles , bronchi , रक्त बरतन और फेफड़ों interstitium  .
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of tequila  मिश्रित साथ cointreau or समान नारंगी -flavoured liqueur और लाइम or  lemon juice , often served with salt on the glass rim .
It is the most common  tequila-based कॉकटेल in the संयुक्त  States .
The drink is served shaken with ice ( on the rocks ) , blended with ice ( frozen  मार्गरिटा ) , or बगैर बर्फ ( सीधा up ) .
Two bottles of red Burgundy wine from  gevrey-chambertin , côtes de nuits
बरगंडी is a अंधेरा रेड रंग संबद्ध साथ the बरगंडी वाइन of the वही नाम  , which in turn is named after the Burgundy region of France .
The color burgundy is  समान to अन्य शेड्स of अंधेरा रेड ऐसे  as maroon .
When referring  to the रंग , `` बरगंडी '' is प्रायः  not capitalized .
The first  अंकित उपयोग of `` बरगंडी '' as a रंग नाम  in English was in 1881 .
संगीन of an अनजान अंग्रेजों सिपाही , मारे in 1943  during the Battle of Leros .
Because  उसके पहचान is अनजान , he is लापता in  action .
संगीन of an अनजान अमरीकी सिपाही  in Oise-Aisne Cemetery .
मारे in 1917
Grave of an  अनजान छत्रसेना , मारे in the बैटल  of Arnhem , 1944 .
photographed  in April 1945
Graves of 11 unknown British soldiers killed during World  युद्ध ii , in rhodes cwgc युद्ध कब्रिस्तान
Wall  crypts containing remains of अनजान इतालवी सैनिको मारे  during World War II , in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names  inscribed on the thiepval मेमोरियल to the लापता of  the Somme
Graves of  अनजान फ्रेंच सैनिको मारे दौरान  World War One .
Each concrete  क्रॉस रै a मेटल प्लैक bearing the शब्द `` inconnu ''  i.e . `` Unknown ''
ossuary at the gallipoli रणभूमि , containing the remains  of 3000 unidentified French soldiers who died in 1915
क़ब्रों of अनजान eritrean ascaris मारे  in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is  a casualty श्रेणी आबंटित अंतर्गत the औकात of लापता to हथियारबंद सेवाएं कर्मियों जो हैं reported लापता  during active service .
They  may have महरूम मारे , wounded , become a कैदी  of war , or deserted .
If deceased , neither their  remains nor संगीन can be positively पहचाना  .
Becoming  मिया रै महरूम an occupational रिस्क लिये सेवा कर्मियों  for as long as there has been warfare .
Chamber of Commerce  भवन in बीच  .
This building is the  असली कारावास , निर्मित साथ साथ the ऐतिहासिक courthouse  .
Both sit on  the कस्बा वर्गाकार .
The  रिओ थिएटर  in Center
First  बैपटिस्ट गिरिजाघर at 117 कोरा गली in बीच  is located next to the downtown section .
First  ईसाई गिरिजाघर at 124 कोरा गली in बीच is  one of the oldest congregations in the community .
Center is a city  in शेल्बी काउंटी , टेक्सास , संयुक्त राज्य  .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 5,193 at  the 2010 census .
It is the county  सीट of शेल्बी काउंटी  .
It is named for its location near the center  of शेल्बी काउंटी , नहीं लिये इसके स्थान in टेक्सास as it is स्तिथ  near the Louisiana border .
Intense  red-eye प्रभाव in ब्लू आँखें साथ  dilated pupil
The red-eye  प्रभाव in छायाचित्र is the आम रूप of रेड  pupils in color photographs of eyes .
It occurs when using a photographic flash  बहुत बंद to the कैमरा लेंस ( as साथ सबसे कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे ) , in परिवेश  low light .
The  प्रभाव appears in the आँखें of इंसानो और पशु कि  have tapetum lucidum .
Theatrical followspot  ऑपरेटर , positioned nearly coincidentally साथ a बहुत उज्जवल लाइट और somewhat दूर इससे the अभिनेताओं ,  occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage .
The effect is not visible to the rest of the audience  क्युकी it is reliant on the बहुत छोटी कोण between the followspot ऑपरेटर और the  light .
The University of California , Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as UC Santa  बारबरा or ucsb ) is a पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों और एक of the टेन सामान्य campuses of the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया प्रणाली  .
The main  कैम्पस is स्तिथ on a साईट in goleta , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त राज्य , इससे सांता बारबरा और उत्तरपश्चिम  of Los Angeles .
Tracing its roots back to 1891 as an independent teachers ' college , UCSB joined the University of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया प्रणाली in 1944 और is the third-oldest general-education कैम्पस in the  system .
UCSB is one of America 's  पब्लिक आइवी विश्वविद्यालयों , जिससे recognizes शीर्ष पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों in  the United States .
The university is  a व्यापक डॉक्टरेट विश्वविद्यालयों और is व्यवस्थित into पाँच कॉलेजों और स्कूलों offering  87 undergraduate degrees and 55 graduate degrees .
The campus is the 6th-largest in the UC system by enrollment with  18,977 undergraduate और 2,950 ग्रैजुएट विद्यार्थी  .
in 2012 , ucsb थी क्रमित 41st among `` नेशनल विश्वविद्यालयों '' और 10th among पब्लिक  universities by U.S. News & World Report .
The university was also ranked  35th विश्वव्यापी by the टाइम्स उच्चतर शिक्षा संसार विश्वविद्यालयों rankings और 34th विश्वव्यापी ( 6th विश्वव्यापी लिये अभियान्त्रिकी ) by the अकादमिक रैंकिंग of संसार विश्वविद्यालयों in 2012.  < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity ''  शोध विश्वविद्यालयों और खर्च $ 191.2 लाख on शोध expenditures in the 2007 फिस्कल साल , 97th-largest  in the United States .
UCSB houses  बारह नेशनल शोध centers , सहित the प्रसिद्ध kavli संस्थान लिये सैद्धांतिक  Physics .
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates , one Fields Medalist , 29 members of the National  अकादमी of sciences , 27 सदस्यों of the नेशनल अकादमी of अभियान्त्रिकी , और 31 सदस्यों of the अमरीकी अकादमी of कला और  Sciences .
UCSB was the No . 3 host on the  arpanet और थी निर्वाचित to the संघ of अमरीकी  Universities in 1995 .
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos compete  in the ncaa प्रभाग i बिग वेस्ट सम्मेलन .
The Gauchos have won NCAA national  championships in मेन 's सॉकर और मेन 's  water polo .
Saint  जोसेफ साथ the शिशु यीशु by  Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day , March 19 , the Feast of St. Joseph is in  पश्चिमी christianity the प्रिंसिपल feast दिन of संत जोसेफ , जीवनसाथी of the धन्य वर्जिन मरियम  .
He is also the step-father  of यीशु of नासरत /jesus  Christ .
It has the rank of a  solemnity in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर ; catholics जो follow the missal of 1962 celebrate  it as a first class feast .
पिछला to 1962 it थी मनाये as a  feast of the rank of double of the first class .
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the  anglican नियाज़ , और a feast or पर्व in the लूथरन  Church .
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as  लिये कनाडा , व्यक्तियों नामित जोसेफ , josephine , etc. , लिये धार्मिक संस्थान , स्कूलों और parishes  bearing his name , and for carpenters .
It is also Father 's Day in some  कैथोलिक देशों , मुख्यतः स्पेन , पुर्तगाल  , and Italy .
कूच 19 थी समर्पित to संत जोसेफ in अनेक पश्चिमी  calendars by the tenth century , and this custom was established in Rome by 1479 .
Pope St. Pius V extended its use to the  संपूर्ण रोमन रीति by उसके अपोस्टोलिक संविधान quo primum (  July 14 , 1570 ) .
Since  1969 , एपिस्कोपल सम्मेलनों may , if वे काश , ट्रांसफ़र  it to a date outside Lent .
Between 1870 and 1955 , a feast was celebrated in honor of St. Joseph as  जीवनसाथी of the धन्य वर्जिन मरियम और संरक्षक of the सार्वभौमिक गिरिजाघर , the latter शीर्षक having महरूम  given to him by Pope Pius IX .
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday  बाद ईस्टर साथ an अष्टक , बाद divino afflatu of st. पायस x ( देखिए सुधार of the रोमन breviary by पोप पायस x ) , it थी स्थानांतरित to the preceding  Wednesday .
The  feast थी भी retitled the solemnity  of Saint Joseph .
इस जश्न और इसके accompanying अष्टक थी abolished दौरान  the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955 .
it is स्टिल कायम by catholics जो follow the missal  of 1962 or earlier missals .
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss .  फिलिप और जेम्स , may 1 , था धुंधली इससे the मेमोरी of सबसे catholics by the mid-twentieth सदी , कि of जोसेफ the कार्यकर्ता थी निर्मित in अनुक्रम to coincide साथ  the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries .
The  feast of ss . फिलिप और जेम्स , जिससे था महरूम मनाये on कि तिथि चूंकि the छठे  century , was moved from its traditional place .
In the new calendar published in 1969 ,  the feast , जिससे at एक समय occupied the उच्चतम संभावित रैंक in the गिरिजाघर  calendar , was reduced to an optional Memorial , the lowest rank for a saint 's day .
the पूर्वी परंपरागत गिरिजाघर मनाता संत जोसेफ on the संडे  after Christmas .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an  अमरीकी सिंगर , songwriter , रिकार्ड निर्माता , अभिनेत्री ,  and philanthropist .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola , Carey released her  self-titled डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और शाखित चार लगातार  number one singles on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991  ) , म्यूज़िक बक्सा ( 1993 ) , और मैरी क्रिसमस ( 1994 ) , कैरी थी स्थापित as कोलंबिया  's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when  इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` एक मीठी दिन `` , a duet साथ बॉयज ii मेन , खर्च a रिकार्ड सोलह सप्ताह on शीर्ष of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 , और remains the longest-running  number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording of the album ,  कैरी began to deviate इससे उसके r & b और पॉप beginnings और धीरे traversed into  hip hop .
This  musical बदलें became evident साथ the रिलीज of तितली  ( 1997 ) , at which time Carey had separated from Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 , and signed  a record-breaking $ 100 लाख रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध  with Virgin Records .
Before  the रिलीज of उसके पहला विशेषता फिल्मी glitter  ( 2001 ) , she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion .
Following the film 's poor reception , she was bought  आउट of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध लिये $ 50 लाख , जिससे led to a मनाही  in her career .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002  , और बाद an unsuccessful काल , लौटे to the शीर्ष of म्यूज़िक चार्ट साथ the emancipation of मिमी  ( 2005 ) .
Its second single `` We Belong Together  `` became उसके सबसे कामयाब सिंगल of the 2000s , और थी बाद नामित `` सोंग of the दशक  '' by Billboard .
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award  '' at the ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व , और ब्लैक रील और  NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a career  spanning over दो दशकों , कैरी रै बेची अधिक than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी , बनाना उसके एक of the  best-selling music artists of all time .
In 1998 , she was honored as  the संसार 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार of the 1990s at the संसार  Music Awards .
कैरी थी भी नामित the best-selling मादा  artist of the millennium in 2000 .
According to the Recording Industry Association of  अमेरिका , वो is the तीसरा best-selling मादा कलाकार in the संयुक्त राज्य , साथ 63.5 लाख  certified albums .
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ) , Carey  gained उसके eighteenth क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य , अधिक than कोई अन्य  solo artist .
In 2012 , Carey was ranked second  on vh1 's सूची of the `` 100 महानतम महिलाओं in  Music '' .
Aside  इससे उसके वाणिज्यिक accomplishments , कैरी रै जीती पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , 17 संसार  Music Awards , 11 American Music Awards , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as  the `` songbird परम् '' by the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड , वो is famed लिये  her five-octave vocal range , power , melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register .
A bumblebee is any  सदस्य of the मधुमक्खी genus bombus , in the परिवार apidae  .
There are over 250 known species , existing  primarily in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध हालांकि वे भी occur in दक्षिण  America .
They have been introduced to  नई जीलैंड और the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई राज्य  of Tasmania .
Bumblebees are social  कीट कि हैं characterised by ब्लैक और पीला  body hairs , often in bands .
however , कुछ प्रजाति have नारंगी or रेड on उनके  bodies , or may be entirely black .
Another obvious ( but not  अद्वितीय ) characteristic is the नरम प्रकृति of the बाल ( long , branched setae ) , पुकारा pile , कि  covers their entire body , making them appear and feel fuzzy .
They are best  विशिष्ट इससे similarly विशाल , फजी मधुमक्खियों by the रूप of the मादा हिन्द लेग , जिससे is परिवर्धित to रूप a corbicula : a चमकदार concave  surface that is bare , but surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen ( in similar bees , the hind leg is completely hairy , and pollen grains are wedged into the hairs for transport ) .
Like their relatives  the मधु मधुमक्खियों , bumblebees फीड on मकरंद और  gather pollen to feed their young .
A man openly carrying a  handgun in a बर्गर किंग in त्रिभुज , कोलोराडो  .
In the United States , open carry is shorthand terminology for `` openly  carrying a firearm in पब्लिक '' , as विशिष्ट इससे concealed carry , जहाँ firearms can नहीं be देखी by the कैज़ुअल निरीक्षक  .
the अभ्यास of खोलें carry , जहाँ गन स्वामी खुलकर carry firearms जबकि वे go परिचय उनके रोज़  business , has seen an increase in the U.S. in recent years .
This has been marked by a number of  व्यवस्थित कार्यक्रम intended to बढ़ाएँ the दृश्यता of खोलें  carry and public awareness about the practice .
Proponents  of खोलें carry पाइंट to इतिहास और आंकडे , noting कि अपराधियों  usually conceal their weapons .
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org , GeorgiaCarry.org and some  भागीदार of the फ़्री राज्य प्रोजेक्ट , खोलें carry रै देखी a पुनरुद्धार in हाल सालो , लकिन it is नहीं yet साफ if इस represents बस  a short-term trend .
the गन अधिकारों जातियाँ रै महरूम मिश्रित  in its response .
Alan Gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious  in expressing support , जबकि special-interest समूह ऐसे as the aforementioned opencarry.org और georgiacarry.org , और निश्चित नेशनल समूह ऐसे as the  Gun Owners of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice .
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control  समूह ऐसे as the ब्रैडी अभियान और the गठबन्धन to रोकें गन  Violence .
The Cattenom  नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in  France .
फ़्रांस produces around तीन quarters of इसके विद्युत  by nuclear power .
the grafenrheinfeld नाभिकीय  Power Plant in Germany .
चांसलर एंजेला मार्केल 's गठबन्धन घोषित on may 30 , 2011 , कि germany’s 17 नाभिकीय शक्ति  stations will be shut down by 2022 , in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently , 68 reactors  हैं अंतर्गत निर्माण in 15 देशों  .
Nuclear power  स्टेशन operate in तीस  countries .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear  विपत्ति , it थी reported कि an औसत of परिचय 10 नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों यहूद अपेक्षित to become operational  per year , although according to the World Nuclear Association , of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As  of जून 2011 , जर्मनी और स्विट्ज़रलैंड  are phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries  ऐसे as ऑस्ट्रेलिया , ऑस्ट्रिया , डेनमार्क , यूनानियों , आयरलैंड , इटली , लातवियाई , liechtenstein , ध्वज , मलेशिया , माल्टा , नई  Zealand , Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power .
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a  स्वरूप उपयुक्त लिये उपयोग in a गति चित्र कैमरा , और to समाप्त गति चित्र फिल्मी , तैयार लिये उपयोग in a प्रोजेक्टर , जिससे bears बिंब in रंग  .
The first color cinematography was by means of additive color systems  ऐसे as the एक patented in इंग्लैण्ड by एडवर्ड रेमंड टर्नर in 1899 और tested in 1902  .
A  सरलीकृत योगात्मक प्रणाली थी विकसित by जार्ज अल्बर्ट  Smith and successfully commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor .
These early systems used  black-and-white फिल्मी to फोटोग्राफ और प्रोजेक्ट दो or अधिक घटक बिंब through  different color filters .
स्टिल इससे फुटेज अंकित by एडवर्ड  Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology , there are two  पृथक प्रक्रियाओं : eastman रंग ऋणात्मक 2 रसायन ( कैमरा ऋणात्मक स्टॉक्स , duplicating interpositive और internegative स्टॉक्स ) और eastman रंग धनात्मक 2  chemistry ( positive prints for direct projection ) , usually abbreviated as ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
फुजी 's उत्पाद हैं संगत साथ ecn-2  and ECP-2 .
Ashanti Shequoiya  डगलस ( born अक्तूबर 13 , 1980 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter  , record producer , and actress .
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album , which featured the hit song  `` foolish `` , और बेची over 503,000 नक़ल in इसके  first week of release throughout the U.S. in April 2002 .
The album set a Soundscan record as the biggest opening week sales for a new female  कलाकार , outselling debuts by एलिसिया कुंजियाँ और लॉरिन हिल  .
In the same week , she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two places on the  बिलबोर्ड hot 100 singles चार्ट साथ `` foolish '' , और `` कया 's luv ? ``
( साथ मोटे  Joe ) .
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs , `` Foolish , '' ``  कया 's luv ? '' और `` सदा on समय `` , on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट in the वही सप्ताह , होने the पहला  woman to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles .
In 2003 , the self-titled debut  एल्बम जीती ashanti उसके पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन  Contemporary R & B album .
As of April 1st  2013 , ashanti रै बेची over 27.7  million records worldwide .
Ashanti ended the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the  तीसरा शीर्ष नई r & b कलाकार पीछे एलिसिया कुंजियाँ  and Beyoncé .
She also ended the decade at  क्रमांक 38 on the शीर्ष कलाकार of the दशक सूची .
She is currently on the list of  the बीस बेहतरीन selling म्यूज़िक singles चूंकि 1990 लिये उसके सिंगल  Foolish for selling 7.2 million copies to-date .
Ashanti has an estimated net  लायक of $ 40 लाख डॉलर [ usd ] .
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It  मजेदार ( हत्या रिमिक्स ) `` , जिससे पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on बिलबोर्ड hot 100 , जिससे थी भी in the शीर्ष 10 चार्ट at the वही  time as `` Foolish '' , `` Always on Time '' ( with Ja Rule ) , and `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ) .
Later  कि साल , वो थी acclaimed as the `` राजकुमारी of hip-hop & r & b '' by उसके  label and capped off her successful debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards .
Within  सात सालो of ashanti 's करियर , वो रै scored 16 शीर्ष 40  hits on the Hot 100 .
Ashanti  रै endorsed numerous उत्पाद सहित  Gap , Herbal Essences and Mudd Jeans .
Ashanti cites  व्हिटनी ह्यूस्टन , जेनेट जैक्सन , प्रिंस , मैडोना , तुपाक shakur , मरियम J. blige , एला  Fitzgerald , Smokey Robinson , Donna Summer , and Blue Magic as her musical influences .
Praised as a  gifted songwriter by उसके peers और आलोचकों alike , ashanti रै written/co-written the  bulk of all her music .
वो is फिलहाल working on उसके अपना प्रकाशन कम्पनी हकदार लिखा  Entertainment .
She released her fourth studio album entitled The  घोषणा on जून 3 , 2008 और is फिलहाल in the स्टुडियो working on उसके पांचवां  .
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other  मादा गायकों लिये the `` स्टैंड up to कर्कट '' सजीव टेलीविज़न खास जिससे helped उठाएँ  $ 100 million dollars for cancer research .
The  संयुक्त राज्य फौज एयर शक्तियां ( usaaf or aaf ) थी the सैन्य विमानन भुजा of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका दौरान और तत्काल  after World War II , and the direct predecessor of the United States Air Force .
The AAF was a component of the  संयुक्त राज्य फौज , जिससे in 1942 थी विभाजित functionally by कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम into तीन autonomous शक्तियां : the फौज मैदान  Forces , the Services of Supply ( which in 1943 became the Army Service Forces ) , and the AAF .
Each of these  शक्तियां था a commanding सामान्य जो reported सीधे to the मुख्य  of Staff of the United States Army .
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation formerly distributed among the Army Air Corps , General Headquarters Air Force , and ground  शक्तियां corps क्षेत्रफल कमांडरों , और यूँ became the पहला एयर संगठन of the u.S. फौज to कंट्रोल इसके अपना संस्थापना और support कर्मियों  .
In practice ,  the aaf थी वस्तुतः autonomous अंदर  the Army .
The peak size of the AAF was over 2.4 million men and  महिलाओं in सेवा और nearly 80,000 वायुयान in 1944 , और 783 घरेलू  bases in December 1943 .
By VE Day it had 1.25 million men stationed  विदेशी और संचालित इससे अधिक than 1,600 airfields  worldwide .
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air arm a greater  स्वायत्तता in जिससे to विस्तार अधिक efficiently , और to provide a ढांचा लिये the अतिरिक्त कमांड echelons जरूरी  by a vastly increased force .
Although other nations already had separate air forces independent of the army or navy ( such as the British Royal Air Force and the German Luftwaffe ) , the AAF remained  a भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज जबतक the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स आए into होने in सितंबर 1947 .
However , in its  विस्तार और conduct of the युद्ध , the  AAF became more than just an arm of the greater organization .
By  the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध ii the aaf था become  virtually an independent service .
By regulation and executive order , the AAF was a  अधीनस्थ एजेंसी of the युद्ध विभाग tasked तभी साथ आयोजन , प्रशिक्षण , और equipping कॉम्बैट इकाई , सीमित in जिम्मेदारी  to the continental United States , as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces .
In reality , Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the air war  in प्रत्येक भाग of the संसार , determining एयर नीति और issuing आदेश बगैर transmitting उन्हें through the मुख्य of  Staff .
This `` contrast  between सिद्धान्त और फैक्ट is ... आधारभूत  to an understanding of the AAF . ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a  संघीय स्वतंत्रता of सूचना विधि कि allows लिये the पूरा or आंशिक प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased सूचना  and documents controlled by the United States government .
The Act defines  एजेंसी रिकॉर्ड विषय to प्रकटीकरण , outlines अनिवार्य प्रकटीकरण प्रक्रियाओं और अनुदान  nine exemptions to the statute .
It was originally signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson ,  despite उसके misgivings , on जुलाई 4 , 1966 as और गई into प्रभाव the following साल .
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information Act  चाहिए नहीं be उलझन साथ the अलग और varying स्वतंत्रता of सूचना अधिनियमों  passed by the individual states .
Many of those state acts  may be समान लकिन नहीं एकसमान  to the federal act .
The European Union ( EU ) is an economic and  राजनैतिक संघ of 27 सदस्य राज्य कि हैं स्तिथ primarily  in Europe .
The EU operates through a system of  supranational स्वतंत्र संस्थानों और intergovernmental negotiated  decisions by the member states .
Institutions of the EU  शामिल the यूरोपीय आयोग , the परिषद of the यूरोपीय संघ , the यूरोपीय परिषद , the अदालत of इंसाफ of the यूरोपीय संघ , the यूरोपीय सेंट्रल बैंको  , the Court of Auditors , and the European Parliament .
The European  पार्लियामेंट is निर्वाचित प्रत्येक  five years by EU citizens .
The  eu 's de facto पूंजी  is Brussels .
The EU traces its origins from the European Coal and Steel  जातियाँ ( ecsc ) और the यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ ( eec ) , formed by the भीतरी छह देशों in 1951  and 1958 respectively .
In the  intervening सालो the जातियाँ और इसके successors have grown in आकार by the accession of  new member states and in power by the addition of policy areas to its remit .
The  maastricht सन्धि स्थापित the यूरोपीय संघ अंतर्गत  its current name in 1993 .
The  नवीनतम प्रमुख amendment to the संवैधानिक आधार of the  EU , the Treaty of Lisbon , came into force in 2009 .
The EU has developed a single  मार्केट through a standardised प्रणाली of कानून कि  apply in all member states .
Within the Schengen Area ( which includes 22 EU  और 4 non-eu राज्य ) पासपोर्ट नियंत्रण have महरूम  abolished .
EU  नीतियों उद्देश्य to ensure the फ़्री गति of लोगों , goods , सेवाएं , और पूंजी , enact विधान in इंसाफ और घर अफेयर्स , और  maintain common policies on trade , agriculture , fisheries and regional development .
A monetary union , the eurozone  , थी स्थापित in 1999 और is रचित of  17 member states .
Through the  आम विदेशी और सुरक्षा नीति the eu रै विकसित a भूमिका in बाह्य संबंध  and defence .
Permanent diplomatic missions  have महरूम स्थापित around the संसार  .
The EU is represented  at the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , the wto , the g8 और the g-20  .
With a combined population of over 500  लाख निवासियों , or 7.3 % of the संसार जनसांख्यिकी , the eu , in 2012 , उत्पन्न a नाममात्र सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ) of 16.584 खरब us डॉलर , representing लगभग 20 % of the वैश्विक  GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity , and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world .
The EU was  the प्राप्तकर्ता of the 2012  Nobel Peace Prize .
The Wales national  रग्बी लीग टोली represent वेल्स in अंतरराष्ट्रीय  rugby league football matches .
फिलहाल the टोली is सातवाँ in the rlif  World Rankings .
the टोली यहूद चलाएं अंतर्गत the auspices of the रग्बी फ़ुटबॉल लीग , लकिन an  independent body , Wales Rugby League , now runs the team from Cardiff .
A total of three Welsh players  have महरूम डाला into the रग्बी लीग हॉल of कीर्ति  .
Similar to many other Welsh national  sporting टीमों , वेल्स स्ट्रिप रै महरूम primarily रेड लिये अनेक सालो , सहित अभी  .
However in their last World  कप अभियान in 2000 वे किया पहनें a कमीज़ featuring the वेल्श ध्वज , adding a टच of ग्रीन  and white .
The team  is ज्ञात as `` the ड्रेगन '' और so the टीमों लोगो on the कमीज़ is a  red dragon .
The team date back to 1907 , making them the  तीसरा oldest नेशनल पक्ष बाद इंग्लैण्ड और नई  Zealand .
And it was a touring  नई जीलैंड पक्ष कि वेल्स पहला निभाई विरूद्ध  in 1908 , winning 9-8 at Aberdare .
Since then Wales have regularly played England , since 1935  फ़्रांस , as खूब as सत्कार the touring ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड टीमों , हालांकि वे rarely toured themselves , नहीं playing a  match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975 .
For twenty-six  सालो वेल्स competed विरूद्ध उनके दो biggest विरोधियों , इंग्लैण्ड और फ़्रांस ,  in the European Nations Cup , winning the trophy four times .
Wales have also  competed in the संसार कप on तीन अवसरों , the पहला समय होने  in 1975 .
In 1995 and 2000 they had  उनके सबसे कामयाब tournaments to तिथि , surprisingly बनाना the semi-finals on दोनो अवसरों पहले होने  beaten by England and Australia respectively .
Wales failed to qualify for  the 2008 संसार कप , होने the दूसरी उच्चतम क्रमित पक्ष नहीं to do so , having खोया to  Scotland on points difference over two matches .
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new head coach and appointed Lee  briers as कप्तान , having निभाई लिये वेल्स चूंकि 1998  .
In recent seasons Wales have taken massive strides under former  खिलाड़ी iestyn हैरिस जो रै coached वेल्स to वापस to वापस यूरोपीय कप सफलताओं , जिससे culminated in a चार  Nations appearance in 2011 .
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the heart muscle ) for any reason ,  प्रायः अग्रणी to दिल विफलता ; आम लक्षण हैं dyspnea ( breathlessness ) और परिधीय एडिमा ( सूजन of the टाँगे  ) .
लोगों साथ cardiomyopathy हैं प्रायः at रिस्क of  dangerous forms of irregular heart beat and sudden cardiac death .
The most  आम रूप of cardiomyopathy is dilated  cardiomyopathy .
Fuck  in इसके शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the अधिनियम of यौन  intercourse .
It is an English word that is often used as a  profanity , either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier  .
The origin of  the शब्द is अस्पष्ट  .
It is usually considered to  be पहला attested to around 1475 , लकिन it may be considerably पुरानी  .
In modern usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as  कमीने और fucking ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a संज्ञा , a क्रिया , an क्रियाशील or an क्रियाविशेषण  .
There are many common phrases which make use of the word ,  as खूब as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating it , ऐसे as motherfucker  .
Note : this article adopts the  u.S. विभाग of परिवहन 's परिभाषा of a यात्री गाडी , to औसत a car or ट्रक , प्रयुक्त लिये यात्री , excluding  buses and trains .
The United States is  घर to the largest यात्री गाडी मार्केट of कोई देश  in the world .
Overall , there were an estimated 254.4 million registered passenger  वाहनों in the संयुक्त राज्य according to a 2007 बिन्दु पढ़ाई  .
This number , along with the average age of  वाहनों , रै increased steadily चूंकि 1960 , indicating a growing क्रमांक of वाहनों प्रति capita  .
The Chinese car market , however , is poised to soon  exceed the संयुक्त राज्य ; by the समाप्त of 2012 , वहीँ यहूद over 240 लाख गाड़ियाँ  on the road in China .
The United States  is भी घर to तीन विशाल गाडी निर्माताओं : सामान्य मोटर्स , घाट मोटर कम्पनी और क्रिसलर , जिससे have historically महरूम referred  to as the `` Big Three . ''
Chrysler  however is no longer among the शीर्ष तीन ; लकिन is क्रमांक पाँच , पीछे  Toyota and Honda .
The motor car has clearly become  an अभिन्न भाग of अमरीकी जीवन , साथ वाहनों outnumbering licensed  drivers .
नैदानिक प्रयोगशाला in a हॉस्पिटल सेटिंग  showing several automated analysers .
a चिकित्सा प्रयोगशाला or नैदानिक प्रयोगशाला is a प्रयोगशाला जहाँ परीक्षण हैं किया on नैदानिक नमूनों in अनुक्रम to मिलेंगी सूचना  about the health of a patient as pertaining to the diagnosis , treatment , and prevention of disease .
In poker  , खिलाड़ी construct हैंड्स of पाँच ताश according to predetermined नियम  , which vary according to which variant of poker is being played .
These hands are compared using a hand ranking  प्रणाली कि is मानक आरपार सब विसंगतियाँ of पोकर , the खिलाड़ी  with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker .
In some variants , the  lowest-ranking हाथ can  win or tie .
These hand rankings are also  प्रयुक्त in कुछ अन्य कार्ड खेल , और in पोकर  dice .
The ranking of a particular hand is increased by including  अनेक ताश of the वही कार्ड रैंक , by सब पाँच ताश होने इससे the वही सूट , or by सब पाँच ताश होने of लगातार  rank .
The relative ranking of the  विभिन्न हाथ श्रेणी is आधारित on the संभाव्यता of होने randomly dealt ऐसे  a hand from a well- shuffled deck .
Bruce Randall Hornsby ( born November 23 , 1954 ) is an American  virtuoso ; a सिंगर , pianist , सिंथेसाइज़र , accordion , और dulcimer खिलाड़ी , और songwriter  .
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances , Hornsby draws  अक्सर इससे शास्त्रीय , जैज़ , ब्लूग्रास , लोक , motown , इन्जील , चट्टान , ब्लूज़ , और jam बैंड musical परंपराओं साथ उसके songwriting और the seamless improvisations  contained within .
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a number of occasions with industry awards ,  सहित the बेहतरीन नई कलाकार ग्रैमी in 1987 साथ ब्रूस hornsby और the दायरा , the बेहतरीन ब्लूग्रास रिकॉर्डिंग ग्रैमी in 1990 , और the बेहतरीन पॉप इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  Grammy in 1993 .
Hornsby has also achieved recognition for his  सोलो एल्बम और प्रदर्शन , उसके touring बैंड ब्रूस hornsby और the noisemakers  , his bluegrass project with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician .
He also collaborated with Grateful Dead and  थी a सदस्य of the बैंड इससे सितंबर 1990 to कूच 1992 , playing at over एक सौ  shows during that period .
गन्ना वृक्षारोपण in  rural Cuba
कृषि in क्यूबा रै निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण भाग in  the economy for several hundred years .
Agriculture contributes  कम than 10 प्रतिशत to the सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ) , लकिन it employs roughly 20 प्रतिशत  of the working population .
About 30 percent  of the देश 's जमीन is प्रयुक्त लिये क्रॉप  cultivation .
The inefficient agricultural industry in  क्यूबा रै led to the need to आयात विशाल amounts of भोजन .
क्यूबा अभी imports परिचय 80 % of the  food it rations to the public .
The rationing program  खाते लिये परिचय a तीसरा of the खाना उर्जा the औसत  Cuban consumes .
Overall ,  however , क्यूबा is निर्भर on imports लिये तभी  16 % of its food .
सही
Mega Millions (  initially पुकारा the बिग खेल आचमन लाखो as the successor of the  Big Game ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game .
The first ( The  बिग खेल ) आचमन लाखो आरेखण थी in 2002  ( see below ) .
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000 , paid in 26 equal yearly  किश्तों ( जबतक the नकदी विकल्प is चुनी ) ; प्रायः , the जैकपॉट increases जब वहीँ is no top-prize  winner .
However , despite no jackpot winner for the $  12,000,000 दिसम्बर 18 , 2012 आरेखण , the जैकपॉट remained at $ 12,000,000 लिये the आरेखण to be आयोजित  on December 21 .
(  देखिए नीचे लिये सूचना on कैसा the  game 's jackpot is funded . )
Reflecting common  अभ्यास among अमरीकी lotteries  , the jackpot is advertised as a nominal value of annual installments .
A cash value option ( the usual choice ) , when chosen by a  जैकपॉट विजेता ( देखिए नीचे ) , pays the सन्निकट उपस्थित मान of the किश्तों .
Mega Millions currently uses a  5/56 ( श्वेत गेंदें ) प्लस 1/46 ( the आचमन  Ball ) double matrix to select its winning numbers .
Each  खेल लागत $  1 .
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is the  एक्सेप्शन ) , वहीँ is an विकल्प , पुकारा megaplier ( ऐसे खेल हैं $ 2 प्रत्येक ) जहाँ non-jackpot पुरस्कार  are multiplied by 2 , 3 , or 4 .
The Megaplier was made available  to सब आचमन लाखो jurisdictions in जनवरी 2011 ; it began as  a Texas -only option .
Mega Millions is drawn at  10:59 p.m. पूर्वी समय मंगलवार और शुक्रवार , सहित  holidays .
Mega  लाखो is administered by a consortium of इसके 12 असली lotteries और the  drawings are held at WSB-TV in Atlanta , Georgia .
supervised  by the जॉर्जिया लॉटरी  .
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions , as well as in American lottery history , was $  656,000,000 annuitized ( साथ a नकदी विकल्प of $ 474,000,000 ) लिये the कूच 30 , 2012 आरेखण in जिससे वहीँ यहूद तीन jackpot-winning टिकटें ;  one each in Illinois , Kansas , and Maryland .
All three tickets had been claimed as of  अप्रैल 18 , साथ प्रत्येक नियत of विजेता चुनना the  cash option .
is a Japanese manga series created by  लेखक tsugumi ohba और manga कलाकार  Takeshi Obata .
The main character is Light Yagami , a high  स्कूल छात्र जो discovers a अलौकिक कोपी , the `` मौत नोट '' , dropped on धरती by a shinigami  ( a god of death ) named Ryuk .
The Death Note grants its user the ability to  मार anyone जिनकी नाम और फेस वे जान , by लिखने the नाम in  the notebook while picturing their face .
The series centers around Light 's attempt to create and rule a  संसार `` cleansed of दुष्ट '' as `` परमेश्वर '' using the कोपी , और the प्रयत्न of a जासूस ज्ञात  as L to stop him .
Death Note was first  serialized in 108 अध्याय by shueisha in the जापानी manga पत्रिका साप्ताहिक shōnen जम्प इससे  December 2003 to May 2006 .
The series was  भी प्रकाशित in tankōbon स्वरूप in जापानी starting in may 2004 और समाप्ति in  October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes .
The anime  श्रेणी aired in जापानी इससे अक्तूबर 3 , 2006  , to June 26 , 2007 .
रचित of 37 एपीसोड , the दुश्मनी थी विकसित by madhouse  and directed by Tetsuro Araki .
A light  अनोखा आधारित on the श्रेणी , लिखा by nisio isin , थी  released in Japan .
Additionally ,  विभिन्न वीडियो खेल have महरूम प्रकाशित  by Konami for Nintendo DS .
The series was adapted into  live-action films released in जापानी on जून 17 , 2006 , नवम्बर 3 , 2006 , और फ़रवरी  2 , 2008 .
Viz Media licensed the  मौत नोट manga in उत्तर अमेरिका और रै प्रकाशित सब the बारह आयतन इससे the श्रेणी ,  a 13th volume which serves as a `` reader 's guide '' , as well as the light novels .
The episodes from the anime first appeared in North  अमेरिका as downloadable by  IGN .
Viz  बाद licensed the दुश्मनी श्रेणी और it aired on bionix in कनाडा और on कार्टून  Network in the United States .
The  live-action films briefly निभाई in निश्चित उत्तर  American theaters since 2008 .
However , none of the video  खेल have यूँ दूर महरूम प्रकाशित in उत्तर अमेरिका or यूरोपीय  .
Death Note is one of Weekly Shōnen  jumps best-selling manga श्रेणी of सब समय , साथ  sales over 26.5 million copies .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ) , also known as All Hallows '  संध्या , is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on अक्तूबर 31 , the संध्या of the पश्चिमी ईसाई feast of सब hallows ( or सब संतो ) और the दिन initiating the triduum of hallowmas  .
According to many  विद्वानों , सब hallows ' संध्या is a christianised feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय कटाई त्यौहार , और त्यौहार of  the dead with possible pagan roots , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars  maintain कि it originated independently of samhain और रै  solely Christian roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties , carving pumpkins into  jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , ठहराना bobbing , visiting haunted आकर्षण , playing pranks , telling डरावने कहानियां , और watching  horror films .
New York  नगर taxicabs दौरान midtown फटाफट घंटा in मैनहटन
The taxicabs of New York City , with  उनके distinctive पीला पेंट , हैं a widely पहचाना प्रतीक  of the city .
Taxicabs are operated by private companies and licensed  by the नई यॉर्क नगर टैक्सी और लिमोज़ीन आयोग ( tlc  ) .
It also  oversees over 40,000 अन्य for-hire वाहनों , सहित `` ब्लैक  cars '' , commuter vans and ambulettes .
`` Medallion  टैक्सी , '' the परिचित पीला कैब , हैं the तभी वाहनों in the नगर permitted to चुनें  up passengers in response to a street hail .
Schematic cross section of  भाग of पत्ता , जाइलम दिखाया as रेड वृत्त at फिगर 8  .
Xylem  is एक of the दो प्रकार of हस्तांतरण ऊतक  in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ) , meaning ``  लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक is लकडी , हालांकि it is मिला throughout  the plant .
Its basic function is to  हस्तांतरण जल , लकिन it भी transports कुछ nutrients through  the plant .
U.S.  महिलाओं suffragists demonstrating लिये the  right to vote , February 1913 .
Women 's suffrage also known as woman  suffrage is the सही of महिलाओं to vote  and to run for office .
सीमित मतदान अधिकारों यहूद gained by महिलाओं in स्वीडन , फिनलैंड और कुछ पश्चिमी u.S. राज्य  in the late 19th century .
International organizations  यहूद formed to निर्देशांक प्रयत्न , विशेषकर the अंतरराष्ट्रीय परिषद  of Women ( 1888 ) and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ) .
In 1893 , New Zealand , then a self-governing British colony  , granted वयस्क महिलाओं the सही to vote और the self-governing अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश of दक्षिण ऑस्ट्रेलिया किया the वही in 1895  , but also permitted women to run for office .
ऑस्ट्रेलिया federated in 1901 , और महिलाओं acquired the सही to vote और स्टैंड in संघीय चुनावों इससे 1902  , though uneven restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in national elections were not completely removed until 1962 .
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of  फिनलैंड , तब भाग of the रूसी साम्राज्य , जिससे भी उत्पादित the संसार 's पहला मादा सदस्यों of पार्लियामेंट  in the 1907 parliamentary elections .
नार्वे followed , granting पूरा महिलाओं 's  suffrage in 1913 .
in सबसे पश्चिमी देशों , महिलाओं 's suffrage आए बाद संसार i युद्ध i i , साथ कुछ महत्वपूर्ण  late adopters being France in 1944 and Switzerland in 1971 .
Women 's suffrage has generally  महरूम पहचाना बाद राजनैतिक अभियान to obtain it यहूद  waged .
In many  देशों it थी granted पहले सार्वभौमिक  suffrage .
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right under  the सम्मेलन on the विलोपन of सब फ़ॉर्म of पक्षपात विरूद्ध महिलाओं ,  adopted by the United Nations in 1979 .
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a gothic suspense  अनोखा , the लेखक 's पहला प्रकाशित किताब  .
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream Christianity .Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : •  denomination : the संगठन रिपोर्ट्स विश्वव्यापी सदस्यता of over 7.78 लाख adherents शामिल in इंजीलवाद , सम्मेलन उपस्थिति of over 12 लाख , और सालाना मेमोरियल उपस्थिति of over 19 लाख  .
They are directed by the Governing Body of Jehovah  's गवाह , a समूह of बड़ो in ब्रुकलीन , नई यॉर्क , कि establishes  all doctrines .
Jehovah 's  गवाह ' मान्यताओं हैं आधारित on उनके interpretations of the बाइबल और  they prefer to use their own translation , the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures .
They believe that the destruction of the present world system at Armageddon is imminent , and  कि the स्थापना of परमेश्वर 's किंगडम on धरती is the तभी समाधान लिये सब समस्याएं faced by mankind  .
the समूह उभरा इससे the बाइबल छात्र गति —founded in the लेट 1870s by चार्ल्स taze रसेल साथ the गठन of zion 's देखें  Tower Tract Society —with significant organizational and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford .
The name Jehovah 's witnesses , based on Isaiah 43:10–12 , was adopted in 1931 to  फर्क themselves इससे अन्य बाइबल छात्र समूह और symbolize a ब्रेक साथ the विरासत of रसेल 's परंपराओं  .
Jehovah 's Witnesses  हैं बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उनके door-to-door उपदेश , distributing साहित्य ऐसे  as The Watchtower and Awake !
, और refusing सैन्य सेवा  and blood transfusions .
वे consider उपयोग of the नाम यहोवा vital  for proper worship .
They reject  trinitarianism , अंतर्निहित अमरत्व of the आत्मा , और hellfire  , which they consider to be unscriptural doctrines .
They do not  observe क्रिसमस , ईस्टर , जन्मदिन , or अन्य छुट्टियाँ और कस्टम वे consider to have pagan origins असंगत साथ  Christianity .
adherents commonly refer to उनके देह of मान्यताओं as `` the सच्चाई '' और consider themselves  to be `` in the truth '' .
They consider secular society to be morally  भ्रष्ट और अंतर्गत the influence of शैतानी , और सबसे सीमा उनके सोशल बातचीत साथ non-witnesses  .
Congregational disciplinary actions include  disfellowshipping , उनके पद लिये औपचारिक expulsion और shunning  .
baptized individuals जो formally छोड़ हैं  considered disassociated and are also shunned .
disfellowshipped और disassociated individuals may आखिरकार  be reinstated if deemed repentant .
The religion 's  स्थिति regarding ईमानदार आपत्ति to सैन्य सेवा और refusal  to salute national flags has brought it into conflict with some governments .
नतीजतन , यहोवा 's गवाह have महरूम persecuted और उनके क्रियाएँ हैं  banned or restricted in some countries .
Persistent  विधिक चुनौतियां by यहोवा 's गवाह have बहकावे विधान सम्बन्धित  to civil rights in several countries .
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972 Franco-Italian  रोमांटिक नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by बर्नार्डो bertolucci जिससे portrays a हाल  American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young , betrothed Parisian woman .
it सितारों मार्लोन ब्रैंडो  , Maria Schneider , and Jean-Pierre Léaud .
The film 's raw portrayal of  यौन हिंसा और emotional turmoil led to अंतरराष्ट्रीय  controversy and drew various levels of government censorship .
The MPAA gave the film an X  दरजा upon रिलीज in the संयुक्त  States .
बाद revisions यहूद बना to the mpaa दरजा कोड , it थी  classified as an NC-17 in 1997 .
MGM  released a censored r-rated  cut in 1981 .
The film  रै इसके nc-17 दरजा लिये `` कुछ सुस्पष्ट  sexual content . ''
Windows XP is an  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली उत्पादित by microsoft लिये उपयोग  on personal computers , including home and business desktops , laptops and media centers .
First released to  कंप्यूटर निर्माताओं on अगस्त 24 , 2001 , it is the दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय संस्करण  of Windows , based on installed user base .
The name `` XP '' is short for  `` अनुभव '' , highlighting the उन्नत उपयोक्ता अनुभव  .
Windows  xp , the successor to खिड़कियाँ 2000 और खिड़कियाँ me , थी the पहला consumer-oriented  operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the Windows NT kernel .
Windows XP was released  विश्वव्यापी लिये खुदरा बिक्री on अक्तूबर 25 , 2001 , और over  400 million copies were in use in January 2006 .
It was succeeded by  खिड़कियाँ विस्टा in जनवरी 2007  .
Direct OEM and retail sales  of खिड़कियाँ xp ceased on जून 30 , 2008  .
Microsoft continued to sell Windows XP through their System Builders ( smaller  oems जो बेचें समवेत कंप्यूटर ) कार्यक्रम जबतक जनवरी 31 , 2009  .
On April 10 , 2012 ,  microsoft reaffirmed कि विस्तारित support लिये खिड़कियाँ xp और दफ्तर 2003 होता समाप्त on अप्रैल 8 , 2014 और सुझाया कि प्रशासकों शुरू तैयारी to migrate to  a newer OS .
The NT -based  संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ , जिससे हैं प्रोग्रामित in c , C++ , और सभा , हैं ज्ञात लिये उनके improved स्थिरता  and efficiency over the 9x versions of Microsoft Windows .
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned  आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस , a बदलें microsoft प्रचारित as अधिक user-friendly than पिछला  versions of Windows .
In an attempt to further  ameliorate the `` dll नरक `` कि plagued the पास्ट संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ , improved side-by-side सभा प्रौद्योगिकी in खिड़कियाँ xp allows side-by-side संस्थापना , पंजीकरण और सर्विसिंग of अनेक  versions of globally shared software components in full isolation .
It is also the first version of  खिड़कियाँ to उपयोग उत्पाद सक्रियण to कॉम्बैट illegal copying  .
During Windows XP 's development , the project was codenamed `` Whistler '' , after Whistler  , अंग्रेजों कोलंबिया , as अनेक microsoft कर्मचारी skied at the whistler-blackcomb स्की  resort .
According to web analytics data generated by Net Applications , Windows XP  थी the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली जबतक अगस्त 2012 , जब खिड़कियाँ 7 overtook  it .
, Windows XP market  share is at 38.99 % , having decreased लगभग प्रत्येक माह चूंकि at तनिक नवम्बर 2007 , the पहला  month for which statistics are publicly available from Net Applications .
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an  अर्जेंटाइन टैंगो साथ म्यूज़िक और गीत लिखा in 1935 by कार्लोस gardel  and Alfredo Le Pera respectively .
The name  is a स्पेनी horse-racing phrase अर्थ `` by a सिर '' , जिससे refers  to a horse winning a race by the length of one head .
The lyrics speak of a compulsive horse-track gambler who compares his  व्यसन लिये घोड़े साथ उसके आकर्षण to महिलाओं  .
Alfredo Le Pera was a  ब्राज़ीलियाई इससे são पाउलो , a much italian-influenced क्षेत्रफल in ब्राज़ील , और भी the जन्मस्थान of zequinha de abreu  , composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá .
Le  प्रभा और gardel died in an वायुयान  crash in Medellín , ( Colombia ) , on June 24 , 1935 .
Por  ऊना cabeza
The tango has since  महरूम performed by numerous टैंगो  orchestras .
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ) , Scent of a Woman (  1992 ) , schindler 's सूची ( 1993 ) , सच्चा झूठ ( 1994 ) , टाइटैनिक ( 1996 ) , ख़राब सांता ( uncut संस्करण , 2003 ) , सब the किंग 's मेन ( 2006 ) , ग्रह 51 ( 2009 ) , एपीसोड 37 of nip/tuck ( 2003–2010 ) , एपीसोड 9 of दक्षिण कोरियाई नाटक श्रेणी मीठी जासूस ( 2005–08 ) , the शुरूआत और समाप्ति क्रेडिट of the दक्षिण कोरियाई नाटक ब्रॉडकास्ट i 'm sorry , i प्रेम तुम ( 2004 ) , और  the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ) .
In the movie Frida ( Salma Hayek  , 2002 ) , gardel is सुना गायन it on  a radio .
It is  भी कोटेड in दाउद डेल tredici 's  `` Good News !
Nilda is Back  '' ( इससे the सोंग साईकिल  Miz Inez Sez ) .
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) ,  the टैंगो is performed by the `` the टैंगो प्रोजेक्ट '' , जो दरअसल appear in the नाचना  scene starring Al Pacino ( the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ) .
John Williams  arranged a संस्करण of the टुकड़ा कि appears on the एल्बम `` सिनेमा  Serenade '' with the violin solo performed by Itzhak Perlman .
पर्लमैन और विलियम्स ( conducting ) have भी performed the  piece together in live concerts .
In 2012 a  नृत्य संस्करण थी released by the समूह `` da करेरा '' featuring  the original vocal recording by Carlos Gardel .
The baroreflex or baroreceptor  reflex is एक of the देह 's homeostatic mechanisms लिये maintaining रक्त  pressure .
It provides a negative feedback loop in which an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes heart rate to decrease  इसलिए causing रक्त दबाव to घटी ; likewise , decreased रक्त दबाव activates the baroreflex , causing दिल रेट to बढ़ाएँ यूँ causing  an increase in blood pressure .
The system relies on specialized neurons , known as baroreceptors ,  in the aortic मेहराब , carotid साइनस , और elsewhere to मॉनिटर परिवर्तन in रक्त दबाव और रिले उन्हें to the brainstem  .
subsequent परिवर्तन in रक्त दबाव हैं mediated by the  autonomic nervous system .
Atrial natriuretic peptide forms a parallel negative  प्रतिक्रिया लूप in an endocrinological कंट्रास्ट to the renin-angiotensin प्रणाली  .
The  loma prieta भूकंप , भी ज्ञात as the भूकंप of '89 और the संसार श्रेणी भूकंप , थी a प्रमुख  earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay Area of California on October 17 , 1989 , at 5:04 pm local time .
Caused by  a स्लिप साथ the सैन andreas दोष , the भूकंप lasted 10–15 सेकेंड और measured 6.9 on दोनो the पल  magnitude scale ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale .
The  भूकंप मारे 63 लोगों throughout उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया , घायल  3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless .
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 World Series ,  featuring दोनो of the खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल 's प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल टीमों , the ओकलैंड एथलेटिक्स और the सैन फ्रांसिस्को  Giants .
Because of game-related sports coverage , this  थी the पहला प्रमुख भूकंप in the संयुक्त राज्य to have इसके आरंभिक धक्का  broadcast live on television .
साहूकार in the  standard Staunton pattern
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the weakest piece in the game of  शतरंज , historically representing infantry or , अधिक विशेषकर , हथियारबंद peasants or pikemen  .
In chess , each player  begins the खेल साथ आठ प्यादे , एक on प्रत्येक वर्गाकार of the रैंक तत्काल in सामने  of the other pieces .
( In algebraic notation , the  श्वेत प्यादे प्रारंभ on a2 , b2 , c2 , ... , h2 , जबकि ब्लैक प्यादे प्रारंभ on  a7 , b7 , c7 , ... , h7 . )
व्यक्तिगत प्यादे हैं referred to by the  file on which they stand .
For example , one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or  `` ब्लैक 's b-pawn '' , or कम commonly ( using वर्णनात्मक संकेतन ) , `` श्वेत 's किंग 's बिशप साहूकार '' or ``  Black 's queen 's knight pawn '' .
It  is भी आम to refer to a rook साहूकार , अर्थ कोई साहूकार on the a- or h-file , a नाईट साहूकार ( on the b- or g-file ) , a बिशप साहूकार  ( on the c- or f-file ) , a queen pawn ( on the d-file ) , a king pawn ( on the e-file ) , and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ) .
the सैन्य शक्तियां of the संसार have differing approaches to the enlistment  of homosexual ( gay and lesbian ) and bisexual individuals .
The armed forces of most developed countries have now  removed नीतियों excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( साथ सख्त नीतियों  on sexual harassment ) .
Nations  कि परमिट gay लोगों to serve खुलकर in the सैन्य शामिल the 4 of the 5 सदस्यों of the un सुरक्षा परिषद ( संयुक्त राज्य , संयुक्त  Kingdom , France , and Russia ) , the Republic of China ( Taiwan ) , Australia , Israel , South Africa , Argentina , and all NATO members excluding Turkey .
Hydrogen production is  the परिवार of औद्योगिक विधि लिये generating हाइड्रोजन .
Currently the dominant technology for  सीधा उत्पादन is भाप reforming इससे hydrocarbons .
Many other methods are known  सहित electrolysis और thermolysis  .
In 2006 , the United States was estimated to  have a उत्पादन क्षमता of 11 लाख टन of हाइड्रोजन .
5  लाख टन of हाइड्रोजन यहूद खपत on-site in आयल शोधन  , and in the production of ammonia ( Haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ) .
0.4 million tonnes were an  incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali  process .
Hydrogen  उत्पादन is an अनुमानित $ 100 अरब उद्योग  .
A  आधार पाइंट ( प्रायः denoted as bp , colloquially referred to in the बहुवचन as `` bips '' , भी ज्ञात as a `` बीप ''  ) is a unit equal to one hundredth of a percentage point , or one part per ten thousand , 1/10000 .
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad , literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad (  टेन हजार ) ' , और in कि कॉन्टेक्स्ट is लिखा साथ जिससे looks जैसे a प्रतिशत चिह्न ( % ) साथ दो अतिरिक्त zeroes at the समाप्त ( जैसे a stylized रूप of the चार zeros in the denominator , हालांकि it originates  as a natural extension of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ) .
A basis point  is पारिभाषित as:
1 basis  पाइंट = 1 permyriad  = one one-hundredth percent
1 bp = 1 = 0.01 % =  0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1  % = 100 bp  = 100
आधार अंक हैं प्रयुक्त as a सुविधाजनक ईकाई of मापन in contexts जहाँ प्रतिशत मतभेद  of less than 1 % are discussed .
The most common  उदाहरण is ब्याज दरों , जहाँ मतभेद in ब्याज दरों of कम than 1 % प्रति  year are usually meaningful to talk about .
For example ,  a अंतर of 0.10 प्रतिशत अंक is समतुल्य to a बदलें of 10 आधार अंक ( e.g . a 4.67 % रेट increases  by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ) .
Like percentage points , basis points  avoid the ambiguity between सापेक्ष और निरपेक्ष चर्चाएँ परिचय ब्याज दरों by dealing तभी साथ the निरपेक्ष बदलें in न्यूमेरिक  value of a rate .
For example , if a report says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % interest rate , this could refer to  an बढ़ाएँ either इससे 10 % to 10.1 % ( सापेक्ष , 1 % of 10 % ) , or इससे 10 % to 11 % ( निरपेक्ष , 1 % प्लस  10 % ) .
If , however , the report says there has been a `` 10 basis point increase ''  इससे a 10 % ब्याज रेट , तब we जान कि the ब्याज रेट of 10 % रै increased by 0.10 % ( the निरपेक्ष बदलें  ) to a 10.1 % rate .
It is common practice in the financial industry to use basis points to denote a rate change in a financial instrument , or the difference ( spread ) between two  ब्याज दरों , सहित the yields of fixed-income प्रतिभूति  .
Since certain loans and bonds  may commonly be कोटेड in संबंध to कुछ अनुक्रमणिका or underlying सुरक्षा  , they will often be quoted as a spread over ( or under ) the index .
For example , a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % per annum above the London Interbank  offered रेट ( libor ) is कहा to be 50 आधार अंक over libor , जिससे is commonly expressed as `` l+50bps '' or  simply `` L+50 '' .
The term `` basis point '' has its  origins in व्यापार the `` आधार '' or the स्प्रेड between दो ब्याज  rates .
Since the basis is  प्रायः छोटी , ये हैं कोटेड multiplied up by 10000 , और hence a `` पूरा पाइंट '' गति in  the `` basis '' is a basis point .
Contrast  साथ pips in fx आगे बाज़ार  .
The relationship between percentage changes and basis points  can be summarized as फ़ॉलो : 1 प्रतिशत पाइंट बदलें = 100 आधार अंक , और  0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point .
So , a bond whose yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by  50 आधार अंक ; or ब्याज दरों कि have risen 1 प्रतिशत पाइंट हैं कहा to have increased by 100 आधार  points .
The British Royal  परिवार is the समूह of बंद रिश्तेदारों of the monarch  of the United Kingdom .
The term is also  commonly लागू to the वही समूह of लोगों जो हैं the संबंध of the monarch in उसके or उसके भूमिका as sovereign of कोई  of the other Commonwealth realms , thus sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family .
Members of the Royal Family belong to , either by birth or  विवाह , the हाउस of विंडसर , चूंकि 1917 , जब जार्ज v बदला the नाम of the royal हाउस इससे saxe-coburg  and Gotha .
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at  युद्ध साथ जर्मनी और दिए the अंग्रेजों royal परिवार 's दमदार जर्मनी ancestry ; it थी लगा कि इसके पब्लिक चित्र could be improved by चुनना a अधिक अंग्रेजों  house name .
The new name  चुनी , विंडसर , था बिल्कुल no कनेक्शन अन्य than as the नाम of the किला जिससे  was and continues to be a royal residence .
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal Family , and different lists will include different people , those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ) , or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered members  , जिससे प्रायः परिणाम in the अनुप्रयोग of the पद to the monarch , the consort of the monarch , the विधवा consorts of पिछला monarchs , the children of the monarch और पिछला monarchs , the male-line grandchildren of the monarch और पिछला monarchs , और the spouses और the widows of a monarch 's और पिछला monarch 's बेटे  and male-line grandsons .
On 30 November 1917 ,  किंग जार्ज v जारी अक्षर पेटेंट धमक जो हैं सदस्यों of the royal परिवार  ; the text of the notice from the London Gazette is as follows:
In 1996 , Her Majesty The Queen modified these Letters Patent , as was  evidenced by इस सूचना इससे the लंदन gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title and  a स्टाइल borne by सदस्यों of the royal परिवार to अतिरिक्त व्यक्तियों to be born , evidenced by इस  Notice from the London Gazette:
Members and relatives  of the अंग्रेजों royal परिवार historically represented the monarch in विभिन्न स्थान throughout the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य , sometimes लिये विस्तारित  periods as viceroys , or for specific ceremonies or events .
Today , they often perform ceremonial and social  कर्तव्य throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम और विदेश on निमित्त of the संयुक्त  Kingdom .
Aside from the monarch , their only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve ,  if योग्य और जब नियुक्त by अक्षर पेटेंट , as a काउंसलर of राज्य , दो or अधिक of जिसको कसरत the प्राधिकार of the क्राउन ( भीतर stipulated हद )  in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch .
In the other  realms of the राष्ट्रमंडल रॉयल्टी do नहीं serve  as Counsellors of State .
However in each such realm the monarch 's family members  may अधिनियम on निमित्त of , हैं वित्तपोषित by , और represent the sovereign of कि particular  state , and not the United Kingdom .
The Queen , her consort , her children and grandchildren , as well as all former sovereigns ' children and grandchildren  थाम स्थान in the पहला भाग of the आधिकारिक आदेश of पूर्वता in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स , स्कॉटलैंड , और  Northern Ireland .
Wives of the said enjoy their  पतियों ' पूर्वता , और पतियों of राजकुमारियों हैं unofficially लकिन habitually लगाई  with their wives as well .
However , the Queen changed the private order  of पूर्वता in the royal परिवार in पक्ष of राजकुमारियों ऐनी और एलेक्जेंड्रा , जो henceforth लो निजी पूर्वता over the duchess of कॉर्नवॉल , जो is  otherwise the realm 's highest ranking woman after the Queen herself .
She did not alter the relative  पूर्वता of अन्य born-princesses , ऐसे as the बेटियां of उसके  younger sons .
Haiti ( ; Haitian Creole Ayiti ) ,  officially the गणतंत्र of हैती ( ; ) , is a  Caribbean country .
It occupies the western ,  छोटी portion of the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला , in the वृहद antillean द्वीपसमूह , जिससे it साझा  with the Dominican Republic .
Ayiti ( land of high mountains )  थी the स्वदेशी taíno or amerindian नाम लिये the  island .
The country  's उच्चतम पाइंट is pic  la Selle , at .
The total area of Haiti  is और इसके पूंजी is port-au-prince  .
Haitian  क्रियोल और फ्रेंच हैं the आधिकारिक  languages .
Haiti 's regional , historical  , और ethno-linguistic स्थिति is अद्वितीय लिये अनेक  reasons .
It was the first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean , the first  ब्लैक -led गणतंत्र in the संसार , और the दूसरी गणतंत्र in the americas जब it gained स्वतंत्रता in 1804 as भाग  of a successful slave revolution lasting nearly a decade .
In  2012 , हैती घोषित इसके इरादे to तलाश संबद्ध  membership status in the African Union .
हैती is the सबसे populous of the predominantly  Francophone independent nations in the Americas .
It is one of only two independent nations in the Americas ( along with Canada ) to  designate फ्रेंच as an आधिकारिक भाषा ; the अन्य french-speaking क्षेत्रों हैं सब विदेशी départements  , or collectivités , of France .
Haiti is the most  populous पूरा member-state of the caribbean जातियाँ  ( CARICOM ) .
It is the poorest country in the  americas as measured by the इंसान विकास  Index .
Political  हिंसा रै occurred regularly throughout इसके इतिहास  , leading to government instability .
Most recently , in February 2004 , a coup d'état originating  in the उत्तर of the देश मजबूर the इस्तीफा और निर्वासन of अध्यक्ष jean-bertrand  Aristide .
A provisional government took control with security provided by the  संयुक्त राष्ट्र स्थिरीकरण मिशन in हैती ( minustah  ) .
Michel Martelly ,  the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष , थी निर्वाचित in the haitian  general election , 2011 .
The island  रै था a इतिहास of destructive  earthquakes .
A  7.0 परिमाण भूकंप struck हैती on 12 जनवरी  2010 and devastated Port-au-Prince .
The  उच्चतम विश्वसनीय मौत गिनती थी अनुमानित  at 220,000 .
Haitian  सरकारी estimates यहूद  higher .
The Presidential palace , Parliament and many other important structures were destroyed , along  साथ अनगिनत घरों और व्यवसायों , leaving सैंकड़ों of हज़ारों of लोगों बेघर  .
The  देश रै yet to रिकवर इससे the 2010 भूकंप ( और subsequent incidents ) due to दोनो the गंभीरता of the क्षति हैती endured in 2010  , as well as a government that was ineffective well before the earthquake .
संयुक्त राज्य सहायता संगठन  have donated $ 2 billion .
Combined with other  अंतरराष्ट्रीय दान , ये निधि हैं intended to योगदान to the पुनर्निर्माण of  the country .
the खूनी beetroots is the pseudonym of सर bob कॉर्नेलियस rifo , the  Italian electro house and dance-punk music producer , DJ and photographer .
The Bloody Beetroots is  well-known लिये the ब्लैक venom मुखौटा he wears  during performances .
In fact , the only identifying public  विशेषता of rifo is the साल `` 1977 '' tattooed आरपार उसके छाती , जिससे  is both the year that the producer and punk-rock was born .
`` The  खूनी beetroots dj नियत '' contains सर bob  Cornelius Rifo and Tommy Tea .
A Motorola  सलाहकार alphanumeric पेजर प्रयुक्त in ब्राज़ील in the 1990s ,  operated by Teletrim
A pager is a  बेतार दूरसंचार यंत्र कि receives और प्रदर्शक न्यूमेरिक or टेक्स्ट संदेश  , or receives and announces voice messages .
One-way pagers can only receive  संदेश , जबकि जवाब pagers और two-way pagers can भी acknowledge , जवाब to , और originate  messages using an internal transmitter .
Pagers operate as part  of a paging प्रणाली जिससे शामिल एक or अधिक फिक्स्ड ट्रांसमीटरों ( or in the मामला of जवाब pagers और two-way pagers , एक or अधिक आधार स्टेशन ) , as खूब as  a number of pagers carried by mobile users .
These systems can range from a restaurant  प्रणाली साथ a सिंगल low-power ट्रांसमीटर , to a देशभर प्रणाली साथ हज़ारों of high-power  base stations .
One of the first  व्यावहारिक paging सेवाएं थी शुभारम्भ in 1950  for physicians in the New York City area .
Physicians paid US  $ 12 प्रति माह लिये the सेवा और carried a ( 6 oz ) पेजर कि होता प्राप्त  phone messages within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower .
The system was manufactured by the  reevesound कम्पनी और संचालित by telanswerphone  .
In 1960 , John Francis Mitchell combined elements of Motorola 's Walkie Talkie and automobile radio technologies to  बनाएँ the पहला transistorized पेजर , और इससे इस पाइंट , paging प्रौद्योगिकी जारी to अग्रिम  , and pager adoption continued to expand , until the early 1990s .
However , by the mid-1990s , as cellular technologies became cheaper and more  widely उपलब्धियाँ , उन्नत सेवाएं began to displace paging as a वाणिज्यिक  product .
Today  , pagers मौजूद largely as niche उत्पाद , ढूंढना preferential उपयोग in अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as  hospitals , public safety , and retail locations where their simplicity , high reliability , and low cost represent significant advantages .
reevesville is a कस्बा in dorchester  County , South Carolina , United States .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी  196 at the 2010 census .
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget , and used by the U.S. Census Bureau for statistical purposes  तभी , reevesville is शामिल भीतर the charleston-north charleston-summerville महानगर  area .
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; July 6 ,  1907 – जुलाई 13 , 1954 ) थी a मैक्सिकन चित्रकार , born in coyoacán , जो is  best known for her self-portraits .
Kahlo 's life began and ended in  मैक्सिको नगर , in उसके घर ज्ञात as the ब्लू  House .
She gave  उसके जनम तिथि as जुलाई 7 , 1910 , लकिन उसके जनम प्रमाणपत्र shows जुलाई  6 , 1907 .
Kahlo had allegedly wanted  the साल of उसके जनम to coincide साथ the साल of the शुरूआत of the मैक्सिकन क्रान्ति so कि उसके जीवन  would begin with the birth of modern Mexico .
Her work has been celebrated in Mexico as emblematic of national and indigenous tradition , and by  नारीवादी लिये इसके uncompromising चित्रण of the मादा अनुभव और रूप  .
Mexican culture  और amerindian सांस्कृतिक परंपरा हैं महत्वपूर्ण in उसके कार्य , जिससे रै  been sometimes characterized as Naïve art or folk art .
Her work has also been described as  `` surrealist '' , और in 1938 आंद्रे ब्रेटन , प्रिंसिपल initiator of the surrealist गति , वर्णित  Kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb '' .
Kahlo had a  volatile विवाह साथ the प्रसिद्ध मैक्सिकन कलाकार  Diego Rivera .
She suffered  lifelong स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं  .
Many of her health problems were  the परिणाम of a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना वो बच  as a teenager .
Recovering from her injuries  पृथक उसके इससे अन्य लोगों और इस अलगाव बहकावे उसके works , अनेक of जिससे हैं  self-portraits of one sort or another .
Kahlo suggested , `` I paint myself because I am so  प्रायः अलोन और क्युकी i am the विषय i जान बेहतरीन  . ''
She also  stated , `` i थी born  a bitch .
i थी born  a painter . ''
300px
theresienwiese on the दिन पहले oktoberfest  2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer held  annually in म्यूनिख , बायर्न , जर्मनी , कार्यशील इससे लेट सितंबर to the पहला  weekend in October .
It is one of the most famous events in  जर्मनी और is the संसार 's largest मेला , साथ अधिक than 6 लाख लोगों इससे  around the world attending the event every year .
To the locals , it is not called  oktoberfest , लकिन `` die wiesn '' , बाद the colloquial  name of the fairgrounds themselves .
The Oktoberfest is an  महत्वपूर्ण भाग of bar संस्कृति , having महरूम  held since 1810 .
Other cities across the world  भी थाम oktoberfest जश्न , modeled बाद  the original Munich event .
The Munich Oktoberfest originally took place  दौरान the सोलह दिनों up to , और सहित , the पहला संडे in अक्तूबर  .
In 1994 , the schedule was modified in response to German  reunification so कि if the पहला संडे in अक्तूबर जलप्रपात on the 1st or 2nd , तब the पर्व होता go on जबतक  October 3 ( German Unity Day ) .
यूँ , the पर्व is अभी 17 दिनों जब the पहला संडे is  October 2 and 18 days when it is October 1 .
In 2010 , the festival lasted until the first  सोमवार in अक्तूबर , to चिह्नित the वर्षगांठ  of the event .
The festival is held in an area named the  theresienwiese ( फ़ील्ड , or मर्ग , of therese ) , प्रायः पुकारा wiesn लिये छोटी , स्तिथ  near Munich 's center .
Large quantities  of oktoberfest बियर हैं खपत , साथ लगभग 7 लाख liters परोसा  during the 16 day festival in 2007 .
विज़िटर may भी आनंद a चौड़ी किस्में of परंपरागत खाना ऐसे as hendl ( मुर्गा ) , schweinebraten ( रोस्ट पोर्क ) , schweinshaxe ( ग्रील्ड हैम ओल ) , steckerlfisch ( ग्रील्ड मछली on a स्टिक ) , würstl ( sausages ) साथ साथ brezeln ( pretzel ) , knödel ( आलू or ब्रैड पकौड़ी ) , käsespätzle ( चीज नूडल्स ) , reiberdatschi  ( potato pancakes ) , Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ) .
A platter with cheese  और garnishes
Wheels  of gouda
Cheese is a  जेनेरिक पद लिये a विविध समूह of  milk-based food products .
Cheese is  उत्पादित in wide-ranging  flavors , textures , and forms .
Cheese consists of  प्रोटीन और मोटे इससे मिल्क , प्रायः the मिल्क of गायों , भैंस  , goats , or sheep .
It is produced  by जामन of the मिल्क प्रोटीन  casein .
Typically , the milk  is acidified और जोड of the एंजाइम  rennet causes coagulation .
The  solids हैं अलग और दबाया into फाइनल  form .
Some cheeses have  molds on the rind or throughout  .
Most cheeses melt at  कुकिंग तापमान  .
Hundreds  of प्रकार of चीज इससे विभिन्न देशों  are produced .
Their styles  , बनावट और जायका निर्भर on the उत्पत्ति of the मिल्क ( सहित the एनिमल 's आहार ) , whether वे have महरूम pasteurized , the butterfat  content , the bacteria and mold , the processing , and aging .
Herbs ,  मसाले , or लकडी धुँआ may be प्रयुक्त as  flavoring agents .
The yellow to  रेड रंग of अनेक cheeses , ऐसे as रेड लीसेस्टर  , is normally formed from adding annatto .
For a  few cheeses , the मिल्क is curdled by adding  acids such as vinegar or lemon juice .
Most cheeses are  acidified to a lesser उपाधि by जीवाणु , जिससे फेरे मिल्क  sugars into lactic acid , then the addition of rennet completes the curdling .
शाकाहारी विकल्प to rennet हैं उपलब्धियाँ ; सबसे हैं उत्पादित by fermentation of the कवक mucor miehei  , but others have been extracted from various species of the Cynara thistle family .
Cheese  is valued लिये इसके पोर्टेबिलिटी , long जीवन , और ऊँची सामग्री of  fat , protein , calcium , and phosphorus .
Cheese is more compact and has a longer shelf life than milk , although how long a cheese will keep may  निर्भर on the प्रकार of चीज ; लेबल्स on पैकेट्स of चीज प्रायः अर्जी कि a चीज चाहिए be खपत भीतर तीन to पाँच दिनों of खोलने  .
generally बोलना , मुश्किल cheeses पिछला longer  than soft cheeses , such as Brie or goat 's milk cheese .
Cheesemakers near a dairy  प्रदेश may लाभ इससे fresher , lower-priced मिल्क  , and lower shipping costs .
The long  भंडार जीवन of कुछ चीज , विशेषकर if it is encased in a सुरक्षात्मक  rind , allows selling when markets are favorable .
अतिरिक्त संघटक may be added to कुछ cheeses , ऐसे as ब्लैक मिर्च , लहसुन  , chives or cranberries .
A  विशेषज्ञ विक्रेता of चीज is sometimes ज्ञात  as a cheesemonger .
To become an expert in this field , like wine  or कुकिंग , requires कुछ औपचारिक शिक्षा और सालो of चख और hands-on  experience .
This position is  typically जिम्मेदार लिये सब पहलुओं of the चीज inventory ; selecting  the cheese menu , purchasing , receiving , storage , and ripening .
Legal  citation सिग्नल हैं a नियत of ब्रैड abbreviated वाक्यांश or शब्द प्रयुक्त to clarify  the authority or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition .
Signals  सहायता a रीडर जल्दी discern अर्थ or उपयोगिता of a particular सन्दर्भ  when the reference itself does not provide adequate information .
सबसे citation सिग्नल हैं  placed in front of the citation to which they apply .
For example , in the  अनुच्छेद जब लिखने a विधिक तर्क , it is महत्वपूर्ण to refer  to primary sources .
To  assist पाठक in locating ये स्त्रोत , it is  desirable to use a standardized citation format .
See generally  हार्वर्ड विधि पुनर्विलोकन संघ , the bluebook : a वर्दी प्रणाली of citation (  18th ed . 2005 ) .
Note , however  , कि कुछ न्यायालयों may आवश्यकता कोई विधिक papers कि हैं सुपुर्द to उन्हें to  conform to a different citation format .
the signal is the phrase `` see generally , '' which indicates that the citation `` The Bluebook : A Uniform System  of citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) '' provides सामान्य पृष्ठभूमि सूचना on  the topic .
Neil Alden Armstrong ( August 5 , 1930 –  अगस्त 25 , 2012 ) थी an अमरीकी astronaut और the पहला व्यक्ति to चलना  on the Moon .
He was  भी an aerospace इंजीनियर , नवल एविएटर  , test pilot , and university professor .
Before becoming an astronaut ,  आर्मस्ट्रांग थी an अधिकारी in the u.S. नेवी और परोसा in the  Korean War .
After the war , he earned his bachelor 's degree at Purdue  विश्वविद्यालयों और परोसा as a परीक्षण पायलट at the नेशनल सलाहकार कमेटी लिये aeronautics high-speed उड़ान स्टेशन , अभी ज्ञात as the ड्राइडेन उड़ान शोध बीच  , where he logged over 900 flights .
He later completed  ग्रैजुएट अध्ययन at the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिणी  California .
A  भागीदार in the u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स 's man in स्पेस soonest और x-20 dyna-soar इंसान spaceflight  programs , Armstrong joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962 .
he बना उसके पहला स्पेस उड़ान , as कमांड पायलट of मिथुन 8 , in 1966 , बनने  NASA 's first civilian astronaut to fly in space .
On this mission , he  performed the पहला डॉकिंग of दो spacecraft , साथ पायलट दाउद  Scott .
Armstrong 's second and last spaceflight was as  मिशन कमांडर of the अपोलो 11 चंद्रमा लैंडिंग , in जुलाई  1969 .
On this mission , Armstrong and Buzz  एल्ड्रिन descended to the चंद्र सतह और खर्च दो और a हाफ  hours exploring , while Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in the Command Module .
Along with Collins and Aldrin , Armstrong was awarded the  अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता by अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड निक्सन ; in 1978 , अध्यक्ष jimmy कार्टर प्रस्तुत आर्मस्ट्रांग the congressional स्पेस पदक of सम्मान in 1978  ; he and his former crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009 .
Armstrong died in  सिनसिनाटी , ओहियो , on अगस्त 25 , 2012 , at the आयु of 82 , बाद जटिलताओं  from coronary artery bypass surgery .
Secretariat  ( कूच 30 , 1970 – अक्तूबर 4 , 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि  in 1973 became the first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years .
He set race  रिकॉर्ड in सब तीन कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the केंटकी डर्बी ( 1:59.4 ) , the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ) , और  the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today .
He is considered to  be एक of the महानतम thoroughbreds  of all time .
In 1999 ,  ईएसपीएन क्रमित सचिवालय the 35th बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी of the 20th सदी , the उच्चतम  ranking racehorse on the list URL_http .
He  क्रमित दूसरी पीछे man o ' युद्ध in the blood-horse 's सूची of the शीर्ष  100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century .
सचिवालय थी sired by बिंदास शासक आउट of somethingroyal  , by Princequillo .
He was  foaled at the मर्ग in कैरोलीन  County , Virginia .
Like  उसके प्रसिद्ध पूर्ववर्ती man o ' युद्ध , सचिवालय थी a विशाल शाहबलूत टट्टू और थी दिए  the same nickname , `` Big Red . ''
Secretariat 's grandsire , Nasrullah , is also the  great-great-grandsire of 1977 ट्रिपल क्राउन विजेता  Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery  , he थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by कनाडाई jockey रॉन turcotte , साथ साथ प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल फेलिसियानो ( पहला  two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He  raced in chenery 's मर्ग stable 's ब्लू  and white checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat stood  लगभग लम्बा , और weighed , साथ a 75-inch girth , in उसके रेसिंग प्रधान  .
Madrid ( , ) is the  पूंजी और largest नगर  of Spain .
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire  जनसांख्यिकी of the मैड्रिड महानगर क्षेत्रफल is गणना to be around 6.5 लाख  .
It is the third-largest city in  the यूरोपीय संघ , बाद लंदन और बर्लिन , और इसके महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the third-largest  in the European Union after London and Paris .
The city  spans a कुल of  .
The city is located on the Manzanares  नदी in the केन्द्र of दोनो the देश और the जातियाँ of मैड्रिड ( जिससे comprises the नगर of मैड्रिड , इसके conurbation और विस्तारित उपनगरों और गांवों )  ; this community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha .
As the capital  नगर of स्पेन , सीट of सरकारी , और निवास of the स्पेनी monarch , मैड्रिड  is also the political , economic and cultural centre of Spain .
The  वर्तमान महापौर is ana botella इससे the लोगों 's पार्टी  ( PP ) .
The Madrid urban agglomeration has the third-largest GDP in the  यूरोपीय संघ और इसके प्रभाव in राजनीती , शिक्षा , entertainment , पर्यावरण , मीडिया , फ़ैशन , विज्ञान , संस्कृति , और the कला सब योगदान  to its status as one of the world 's major global cities .
Due to its economic output , high standard of living  , और मार्केट आकार , मैड्रिड is माना the प्रमुख वित्तीय केन्द्र of दक्षिणी यूरोपीय और the इबेरिया प्रायद्वीप ; it होस्ट the सिर कार्यालयों of the विशाल बहुमत  of the major Spanish companies , such as Telefónica , Iberia or Repsol .
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain , the fourth-most  touristic of the महाद्वीप , और the सातवाँ सबसे visited नगर in the संसार according to  Forbes .
Is the 10th most livable  नगर in the संसार according to monocle पत्रिका , in इसके 2010  index .
Madrid also ranks  among the 12 greenest यूरोपीय शहरों in 2010. < संदर्भ name= '' एचटीटीपी : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > मैड्रिड is फिलहाल  a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics .
मैड्रिड घरों the मुख्यालय of the संसार पर्यटन संगठन ( wto ) , belonging to the संयुक्त राष्ट्र संगठन ( un ) , the  SEGIB , the Organization of Ibero-American States ( OEI ) , and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ) .
It also hosts major international  संस्थानों regulators of स्पेनी : the खड़ा कमेटी of the संघ of स्पेनी भाषा अकादमियों , मुख्यालय of the royal स्पेनी अकादमी ( rae ) ,  the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ) .
Madrid organizes  मेलों as fitur , आरको , simo tci और the cibeles मैड्रिड  Fashion Week .
While Madrid possesses  a आधुनिक अवसंरचना , it रै preserved the dekh और महसूस of  many of its historic neighbourhoods and streets .
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ;  the teatro रियल ( royal थिएटर ) साथ इसके लौटी 1850 ओपेरा हाउस ; the buen retiro पार्क , संस्थापित in 1631 ; the 19th-century नेशनल पुस्तकालयों भवन ( संस्थापित in 1712 ) containing कुछ of स्पेन 's ऐतिहासिक अभिलेख ; a विशाल क्रमांक of नेशनल संग्रहालय , और the सुनहरी त्रिभुज of आर्ट , स्तिथ साथ the paseo डेल प्राडो  and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum , the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía , a museum of modern art , and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum , which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums .
Cibeles  राजमहल और फव्वारा have become the स्मारक  symbol of the city .
The path  of the via appia और of the via appia  Traiana .
Remains of the Appian  रास्ता in रोम , निकट quarto miglio
निकट रोम  .
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : Via Appia  ) थी एक of the earliest और रणनीतिक सबसे महत्वपूर्ण रोमन सड़कें of the प्राचीन  republic .
It connected  रोम to brindisi , apulia , in southeast  Italy .
Its importance is  indicated by इसके आम नाम , अंकित by statius  :
Appia  teritur रेजिना longarum  viarum
`` the Appian  रास्ता is the महारानी of the long  roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus , the Roman censor who began and  समाप्त the पहला खण्ड as a सैन्य सड़क to the दक्षिण in 312 bc दौरान  the Samnite Wars .
The  draupner वेव , a सिंगल दानव वेव measured on नई साल 's दिन 1995 , आखिरकार पुष्टि the अस्तित्व of freak लहरें , जिससे था  previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves , monster waves , killer  लहरें , चरम लहरें , और असामान्य लहरें ) हैं अपेक्षाकृत विशाल और spontaneous समंदर सतह लहरें कि occur दूर आउट at समुद्र , और  are a threat even to large ships and ocean liners .
In oceanography , they  हैं अधिक precisely पारिभाषित as लहरें जिनकी ऊँचाई is अधिक than twice the significant वेव ऊँचाई ( swh ) , जिससे is itself पारिभाषित as the  mean of the largest third of waves in a wave record .
इसलिए दुष्ट लहरें हैं नहीं necessarily the biggest लहरें मिला at समुद्र  ; they are , rather , surprisingly large waves for a given sea state .
Rogue waves seem not to have a single distinct cause  , लकिन occur जहाँ शारीरिक कारकों ऐसे as ऊँची हवाएँ और दमदार currents कारण लहरें to  merge to create a single exceptionally large wave .
Electress  sophia of हनोवर ( 1630–1714 )
the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to the अंग्रेजों सिंहासन is the ordered अनुक्रम of सब those लोगों  eligible to succeed to the throne of the United Kingdom and the other 15 Commonwealth realms .
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed succession on  the electress sophia of हनोवर और उसके वंशजों  while excluding Roman Catholics .
The  अंग्रेजों सरकारी करता नहीं प्रकाशित an आधिकारिक सूची of सब those in लकीर to सफल , लकिन the कार्य of genealogical लेखक और amateur  researchers suggests that there are several thousand people potentially in line .
At a summit in Perth , Western Australia  in 2011 , the heads of सरकारी of सब 16 राष्ट्रमंडल realms सहमत to लो कदम to अपनाना निरपेक्ष primogeniture ,  end the exclusion of people married to Roman Catholics , and make other changes in the succession rules .
The line of succession is  भी प्रयुक्त to चुनें the counsellors of राज्य ( और a रीजेंट if the need arises ) अंतर्गत  the provisions of the Regency Act 1937 .
लिये पहले संस्करण of the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार  , see History of the British line of succession .
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17 , 1920July 23 ,  1966 ) थी an अमरीकी फिल्मी और स्टेज कर्ता the नई यॉर्क times’ obituary विख्यात  his portrayal of `` moody , sensitive young men '' .
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber in George Stevens 's A Place in  the सूर्य , the anguished कैथोलिक पुजारी in हिचकॉक 's i कबूल , the doomed नियमित सिपाही रॉबर्ट E. ली prewitt in फ्रेड zinnemann 's इससे यहाँ to शाश्वत , और the यहूदी gi bullied by antisemites in एडवर्ड dmytryk  's The Young Lions .
बाद , बाद a disfiguring car क्रैश in 1956 , और दारू और नुस्खा  drug abuse , he became erratic .
Nevertheless important roles were still his , including  `` the लापरवाह , alcoholic , mother-fixated रोडियो यजमान '' in जॉन हस्टन 's the misfits , the शीर्षक भूमिका in हस्टन 's , और the विशेषज्ञता शिविर  victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg . ''
Clift received four  अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations दौरान उसके करियर , तीन लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता  and one for Best Supporting Actor .
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a term commonly applied  to an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान जिससे प्रारंभ as a परिणाम of the 11 सितंबर 2001 आतंकवादी हमले on the संयुक्त  States .
This  resulted in an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान to eliminate al-qaeda और अन्य  militant organizations .
The  संयुक्त किंगडम और अनेक अन्य नाटो और non-nato राष्ट्र participate  in the conflict .
the phrase 'war on आतंक ' थी पहला प्रयुक्त by us अध्यक्ष  George W. Bush on 20 September 2001 .
The Bush administration and the Western media have since used the term to  signify a वैश्विक सैन्य , राजनैतिक , lawful , और conceptual struggle—targeting दोनो संगठन  designated as terrorist and regimes accused of supporting them .
It  थी typically प्रयुक्त साथ a particular फ़ोकस on उग्रवादी islamists  , al-Qaeda , and other jihadi groups .
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas  आकस्मिकता आपरेशन ) , it is स्टिल commonly प्रयुक्त by राजनेता , in the मीडिया और by कुछ पहलुओं of सरकारी officially , ऐसे as the संयुक्त  States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal .
German  battleship schleswig-holstein , westerplatte  , September 1 , 1939
Destroyer USS Shaw exploding after her forward magazine  थी detonated दौरान the आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर
The main causes of World War II were nationalistic issues ,  अनसुलझे मुद्दे , और resentments resulting इससे संसार युद्ध i और the interwar काल in  Europe , in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s .
the culmination of कार्यक्रम कि led to the outbreak of युद्ध हैं generally समझा to be the  1939 invasion of Poland by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of China by the Empire of Japan .
These military aggressions were the  परिणाम of निर्णय बना by the सत्तावादी सत्ताधारी नाजी elite in जर्मनी और by the नेतृत्व  of the Kwantung Army in Japan .
World War II started after these aggressive actions were met with  an आधिकारिक घोषणा of युद्ध and/or हथियारबंद प्रतिरोध  .
The  following is a सूची of देवताओं और अन्य दैवी और semi-divine आंकड़े  from Greek mythology .
The list does not include  जीव ; लिये ये , देखिए सूची of यूनानी पौराणिक  creatures .
The  मित्सुबिशी galant is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by मित्सुबिशी  Motors between 1969 and 2012 .
the नाम थी निकला इससे the फ्रेंच शब्द galant  , meaning `` chivalrous '' .
There have been  नौ पृथक पीढियां , और संचयी बिक्री अभी exceed  five million .
It began as a compact  सेडान , लकिन over the कोर्स of इसके जीवन रै  evolved into a larger mid-size car .
आरंभिक उत्पादन थी तभी आधारित in जापानी , लकिन चूंकि 1994 the अमरीकी मार्केट रै महरूम  served by vehicles assembled at the former Diamond-Star Motors ( DSM ) facility in Normal , Illinois .
Blood pressure ( BP ) , sometimes referred to as arterial blood  दबाव , is the दबाव exerted by circulating रक्त upon the दीवारें of रक्त बरतन , और is एक of  the principal vital signs .
जब प्रयुक्त बगैर further specification , `` रक्त दबाव '' प्रायः refers to the arterial  pressure of the systemic circulation .
During  प्रत्येक धड़कन , रक्त दबाव varies between a अधिकतम  ( systolic ) and a minimum ( diastolic ) pressure .
the रक्त दबाव in the परिसंचरण is प्रधानतया  due to the pumping action of the heart .
मतभेद in औसत रक्त दबाव हैं जिम्मेदार लिये  blood flow from one location to another in the circulation .
The rate of mean  रक्त प्रवाह depends on the प्रतिरोध to प्रवाह प्रस्तुत by the  blood vessels .
Mean blood pressure decreases  as the circulating रक्त चालें दूर इससे the दिल through धमनियों और capillaries due to  viscous losses of energy .
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole circulation ,  हालांकि सबसे of the पतन occurs साथ the छोटी धमनियों और arterioles  .
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g. , during standing ) and  valves in रगों , श्वास , और pumping इससे संकुचन of skeletal मांसपेशियां भी influence रक्त दबाव  in veins .
Blood pressure without  further specification प्रायः refers to the प्रणालीगत arterial दबाव measured at a व्यक्ति 's अपर भुजा और is a माप of  the pressure in the brachial artery , the major artery in the upper arm .
A person’s blood pressure is usually  expressed in शर्तें of the systolic दबाव over diastolic दबाव और is  measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ) , for example 120/80 .
A veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is  the शक्ति ( प्रयुक्त by an अधिकारी of the राज्य , लिये उदाहरण ) to unilaterally रोकें an आधिकारिक कार्रवाई , विशेषकर  the enactment of legislation .
A veto can be absolute , as for  उदाहरण in the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद , जिनकी स्थाई सदस्यों ( चीन , फ़्रांस , रूस , संयुक्त किंगडम  , United States of America ) can block any resolution .
Or it can  be सीमित , as in the विधान प्रक्रम of the संयुक्त राज्य , जहाँ a two-thirds vote in दोनो the  House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation .
A veto only gives power to stop changes , not  to अपनाना उन्हें ( मगर लिये the विरल `` amendatory  veto '' ) .
Thus a veto  allows इसके होल्डर to protect the औकात quo  .
The concept of a veto body  originated साथ the रोमन consuls और tribunes  .
Either of the two consuls  पकड़कर दफ्तर in a दिए साल could ब्लाक a सैन्य or सिविल निर्णय by the अन्य ; कोई  tribune had the power to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate .
Sulfur dioxide ( also  गंधक डाइऑक्साइड ) is the रासायनिक  compound with the formula .
It is a toxic gas with a pungent , irritating smell ,  कि is released by ज्वालामुखी और in विभिन्न औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं .
Since coal and petroleum often contain sulfur compounds ,  उनके दहन generates गंधक डाइऑक्साइड जबतक the गंधक यौगिकों हैं removed पहले burning  the fuel .
Further oxidation of SO2  , प्रायः in the उपस्थिति of a उत्प्रेरक ऐसे as no2 , फ़ॉर्म  H2SO4 , and thus acid rain .
Sulfur  डाइऑक्साइड emissions हैं भी a precursor to अभिकण  in the atmosphere .
Both of  ये impacts हैं कारण लिये चिंता over the पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव  of these fuels .
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '' , `` weakness '' , and `` serious '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an autoimmune  neuromuscular बीमारी अग्रणी to fluctuating मांसपेशी कमज़ोरी और fatigability  .
It is an autoimmune disorder , in which  कमज़ोरी is caused by circulating antibodies कि ब्लाक acetylcholine receptors at the postsynaptic  neuromuscular junction , inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions .
myasthenia is treated medically साथ acetylcholinesterase  inhibitors or immunosuppressants , and , in selected cases , thymectomy .
The disease incidence is 3–30 cases per million per  साल और उठती as a परिणाम of increased जागरूकता  .
MG must be  विशिष्ट इससे जन्मजात myasthenic syndromes कि can उपस्थित समान  symptoms but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments .
Reflective  मुड़ nematic द्रव क्रिस्टल  display .
Polarizing filter  फिल्मी साथ a लंबवत अक्ष to polarize  light as it enters .
Glass  substrate साथ ito electrodes  .
The shapes of these electrodes  होगा determine the आकार कि होगा appear जब the एलसीडी is turned  ON .
लंबवत ridges etched on the  surface are smooth .
मुड़ nematic द्रव  crystal .
कांच substrate साथ आम एलेक्ट्रोड फिल्मी ( ito ) साथ आड़ा ridges to लकीर up साथ  the horizontal filter .
Polarizing filter  फिल्मी साथ a आड़ा  axis to block/pass light .
परावर्तक सतह to भेजें  light back to viewer .
( In a backlit LCD , this  परत is replaced साथ a लाइट सोर्स  . )
A liquid-crystal display (  एलसीडी ) is a चपटा फलक प्रदर्शक , इलेक्ट्रॉनिक विज़ुअल प्रदर्शक , or वीडियो  display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals .
द्रव crystals do नहीं emit लाइट  directly .
LCDs are available to display arbitrary images ( as in a  general-purpose कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शक ) or फिक्स्ड बिंब जिससे can be प्रदर्शित or छुपा , ऐसे as preset शब्द , अंक , और 7-segment  displays as in a digital clock .
They use the same basic technology , except that arbitrary images are  बना up of a विशाल क्रमांक of छोटी पिक्सेल , जबकि अन्य प्रदर्शक have larger तत्व  .
LCDs are used in a  चौड़ी दायरा of अनुप्रयोग सहित कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर , टेलीविज़न , यंत्र panels , वायुयान  cockpit displays , and signage .
They are common in  उपभोक्ता डिवाइस ऐसे as वीडियो खिलाड़ी , गेमिंग डिवाइस , घड़ियाँ , घड़ियाँ , calculators , और telephones ,  and have replaced cathode ray tube ( CRT ) displays in most applications .
They are  उपलब्धियाँ in a wider दायरा of स्क्रीन आकार than crt और प्लाज्मा प्रदर्शक , और चूंकि वे  do not use phosphors , they do not suffer image burn-in .
LCDs are  , however , susceptible to चित्र  persistence .
The LCD screen  is अधिक उर्जा कुशल और can be disposed  of more safely than a CRT .
Its low electrical power consumption  enables it to be प्रयुक्त in बैटरी -powered इलेक्ट्रॉनिक उपकरण  .
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any  क्रमांक of खण्ड भर साथ द्रव crystals और arrayed in सामने of a लाइट सोर्स ( backlight ) or reflector to उपज बिंब in रंग or  monochrome .
Liquid  crystals यहूद पहला खोजा in  1888 .
By 2008 , worldwide sales of  टेलीविज़न साथ एलसीडी screens exceeded सालाना बिक्री of crt इकाई ; the crt became  obsolete for most purposes .
The Borgata Hotel  कसीनो और स्पा is a लक्ज़री होटल , कसीनो , और स्पा in अटलांटिक नगर  , New Jersey , United States .
It is owned by Marina District Development , a joint venture between  boyd गेमिंग और a divesture विश्वास स्थापित by mgm रिसॉर्ट अंतरराष्ट्रीय  .
The $  1.1 अरब कसीनो होटल सुविधाएँ 2,002 कक्ष और is the  largest hotel in New Jersey .
The Borgata  खोली in जुलाई 2003 as a लास vegas-style megaresort और is  the top-grossing casino in Atlantic City .
A bottle  of ऊँची potency b-complex विटामिन  supplement pills .
A vitamin (  or ) is an सशुल्क यौगिक जरूरी by an सजीव as a vital  nutrient in limited amounts .
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of  यौगिकों ) is पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities  by an organism , and must be obtained from the diet .
यूँ , the पद is सशर्त दोनो on the हालातों  and on the particular organism .
लिये उदाहरण , एस्कॉर्बिक एसिड ( विटामिन c ) is a विटामिन लिये इंसानो , लकिन नहीं लिये सबसे अन्य पशु , और biotin और विटामिन  D are required in the human diet only in certain circumstances .
By convention , the term vitamin includes neither other  अनिवार्य nutrients , ऐसे as dietary खनिज , अनिवार्य वसीय acids , or अनिवार्य अमीनो acids ( जिससे हैं needed in larger amounts than विटामिन ) nor the विशाल क्रमांक of अन्य nutrients  that promote health but are otherwise required less often .
Thirteen  विटामिन हैं universally  recognized at present .
विटामिन हैं वर्गीकृत by उनके biological और रासायनिक कार्यकलाप  , not their structure .
Thus , each `` vitamin '' refers  to a क्रमांक of vitamer यौगिकों कि सब दिखाएँ the biological कार्यकलाप संबद्ध  with a particular vitamin .
Such a set of  रसायन is grouped अंतर्गत an alphabetized विटामिन `` जेनेरिक वर्णनकर्ता '' शीर्षक , ऐसे as `` विटामिन a `` , जिससे शामिल  the compounds retinal , retinol , and four known carotenoids .
Vitamers by  परिभाषा हैं convertible to the क्रियाशील रूप of the विटामिन in the  body , and are sometimes inter-convertible to one another , as well .
Vitamins  have विविध biochemical  functions .
Some have hormone-like  कृत्यों as regulators of खनिज चयापचय ( ऐसे as विटामिन d ) , or regulators  of cell and tissue growth and differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ) .
Others function as  antioxidants ( e.g. , विटामिन e और sometimes विटामिन  C ) .
The largest number of vitamins ( such as  b जटिल विटामिन ) फलन as precursors लिये एंजाइम cofactors , कि सहायता एंजाइमों in उनके कार्य as catalysts in  metabolism .
In  इस भूमिका , विटामिन may be tightly बंधी to एंजाइमों as भाग of prosthetic समूह  : For example , biotin is part of enzymes involved in making fatty acids .
Vitamins may also be less tightly  बंधी to एंजाइम catalysts as coenzymes , detachable अणुओं कि फलन to carry रासायनिक समूह or electrons  between molecules .
For example , folic acid may  carry मिथाइल , formyl , और methylene समूह  in the cell .
Although these roles in assisting  enzyme-substrate प्रतिक्रियाएँ हैं विटामिन ' best-known फलन , the अन्य विटामिन कृत्यों  are equally important .
Until the mid-1930s , when the first commercial yeast-extract  विटामिन b जटिल और semi-synthetic विटामिन c संपूरक टैबलेट यहूद बेची , विटामिन यहूद प्राप्त solely through खाना सेवन , और परिवर्तन in आहार ( जिससे , लिये उदाहरण , could occur दौरान a particular  growing season ) usually greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested .
However , vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely available as  inexpensive semisynthetic और synthetic-source multivitamin dietary और खाना पूरक और एडिटिव , चूंकि the मध्य of  the 20th century .
World Muslim  जनसांख्यिकी by प्रतिशत ( pew शोध  Center , 2009 )
संसार मुस्लिम जनसांख्यिकी  in millions
Islam is the world 's  दूसरी largest धर्म बाद christianity  .
According to a 2010 study , Islam has  1.62 अरब adherents , बनाना up over 23 % of the संसार जनसांख्यिकी  .
Islam is the predominant religion in the Middle East , in Sahel ,  in the सींग of अफ़्रीकी और उत्तरी अफ़्रीकी , और in कुछ भाग of एशिया  .
Large communities  of मुसलमान हैं भी मिला in चीन , the  Balkans , and Russia .
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe , for instance ,  islam is the दूसरी largest धर्म बाद christianity , जहाँ it represents  6 % of the total population .
according to the pew शोध बीच in 2010 वहीँ  were 49 Muslim-majority countries .
Around 62 % of the world 's Muslims  सजीव in दक्षिण और southeast एशिया ,  with over 1 billion adherents .
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia , home to 12.7 % of the world 's Muslims  , followed by पाकिस्तानी ( 11.0 % ) , इण्डिया ( 10.9 % ) , और बांग्लादेश ( 9.2 %  ) .
About 20 %  of मुसलमान सजीव in अरब देशों  .
In the Middle East , the  non-arab देशों of तुर्कों और इरान हैं the largest muslim-majority देशों ; in अफ़्रीकी , मिश्र और सीरियल have the  most populous Muslim communities .
A study conducted  by the pew शोध बीच in 2010 और released जनवरी 2011  found that there are 1.62 billion Muslims around the world .
The study found more Muslims in the United  किंगडम than in लेबनान और अधिक in चीन  than in Syria .
Rhode Island ( or ) , officially the State of Rhode Island and  विधाता बागानों , is a राज्य in the नई इंग्लैण्ड प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Rhode Island is  the smallest in क्षेत्रफल , the आठवीं तनिक populous , लकिन the दूसरी  most densely populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey .
Rhode  द्वीप is bordered by कनेक्टिकट to the वेस्ट और मैसाचुसेट्स to the उत्तर  and east , and it shares a water boundary with New York 's Long Island to the southwest .
Rhode Island was the first of the  13 असली colonies to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे अंग्रेजों नियम , declaring itself स्वतंत्र on may 4 , 1776 , दो महीने पहले  any other colony .
The State was also the last of  the तेरह असली colonies to ratify the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  .
Rhode Island 's official  उपनाम is `` the समंदर राज्य '' , a सन्दर्भ to the राज्य 's भूगोल , चूंकि rhode  Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to about 14 % of its total area .
Its land  क्षेत्रफल is , लकिन इसके कुल क्षेत्रफल is significantly  larger .
Dubai ( ; ' , ) is a city in  the संयुक्त अरब अमीरात , स्तिथ भीतर the  emirate of the same name .
The emirate of Dubai is located on the  southeast coast of the पारसी गल्फ on the arabian प्रायद्वीप और is एक of the सात अमीरात  that make up the country .
It has  the largest जनसांख्यिकी in the uae ( 2,106,177 )  and the second-largest land territory by area ( 4,114 km2 ) after Abu Dhabi .
Dubai and Abu Dhabi , the national capital  , हैं the तभी दो अमीरात to have वीटो शक्ति over नाजुक matters of नेशनल महत्व in the देश 's विधानमंडल  .
The city of Dubai is located on the emirate  's उत्तरी तटरेखा और heads up the dubai-sharjah-ajman महानगर  area .
Dubai is nowadays often  misperceived as a देश or city-state और , in कुछ मामले , the uae as a पूरे रै  been described as 'Dubai ' .
The earliest mention of Dubai  is in 1095 ad , और the earliest अंकित उपनिवेश in the प्रदेश तिथियाँ  from 1799 .
The  sheikhdom of दुबई थी formally स्थापित in 1833 by शेख़ maktoum बिन butti al-maktoum जब he persuaded around 800 सदस्यों of उसके जनजाति of the bani yas , जीना in  what was then the Second Saudi State and now part of Saudi Arabia , to follow him to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas .
It  remained अंतर्गत the जनजाति 's कंट्रोल जब the संयुक्त किंगडम assumed सुरक्षा of  the Sheikhdom in 1892 and joined the nascent United Arab Emirates upon independence in 1971 as the country 's second emirate .
Its strategic geographic location made the town an  महत्वपूर्ण व्यापार हब और by the शुरूआत of the 20th सदी , दुबई थी already  an important regional port .
Today , Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis that has grown steadily  to become a वैश्विक नगर और a कारोबार और सांस्कृतिक हब of the मध्य ईस्ट और the पारसी गल्फ प्रदेश  .
Although Dubai 's economy was historically built on the oil industry , the emirate 's  western-style मॉडल of कारोबार ड्राइव इसके अर्थव्यवस्था साथ the प्रमुख revenues अभी coming इससे पर्यटन , रियल एस्टेट , और वित्तीय सेवाएं  .
दुबई रै recently आकर्षित संसार ध्यान through अनेक अभिनव विशाल  construction projects and sports events .
The city has become symbolic for its skyscrapers  और high-rise इमारतें , ऐसे as the संसार 's tallest burj खलीफा , in जोड to महत्वाकांक्षी विकास प्रोजेक्ट सहित man-made आइलैंड्स , होटल , और  some of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world .
This  increased ध्यान रै भी highlighted मजदूर और इंसान अधिकारों मुद्दे concerning the नगर 's largely  South Asian paid workforce .
Dubai 's property market experienced a major  deterioration in 2008–2009 as a परिणाम of the विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक downturn following the वित्तीय  crisis of 2007-2008 .
However , Dubai  रै बना a स्थिर और क्रमिक रिकवरी साथ सहायता  coming from neighboring emirates .
The handful of new projects that are in  the पाइपलाइन have महरूम समर्थ to सहायता दुबई रियल एस्टेट मेक a  comeback .
As of 2012  , दुबई is the 22nd सबसे महंगी नगर in the संसार , और the सबसे महंगी  city in the Middle East , surpassing Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ) .
Dubai has also been rated as one of the best places to live  in the मध्य ईस्ट , सहित by us अमरीकी वैश्विक परामर्श कड़ मर्सर जो रेटेड the नगर as the बेहतरीन प्लेस to सजीव in the मध्य  East in 2011 .
The following  is a सूची of कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों  in the U.S. state of Illinois .
Surface of the Atlantic  समंदर बैठक the धरती 's ग्रहीय boundary परत और क्षोभमण्डल  .
लहरें on an समंदर  coast .
This animation uses Earth science data from a variety  of सेंसर on नासा धरती observing satellites to माप शारीरिक oceanography पैरामीटर्स ऐसे as  ocean currents , ocean winds , sea surface height and sea surface temperature .
An ocean ( ; the  संसार समंदर of शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता ) is a देह of saline जल कि  composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere .
In the  कॉन्टेक्स्ट of धरती , it refers to एक or सब of the प्रमुख विभाजन of the ग्रह 's संसार समंदर – वे हैं , in descending अनुक्रम of क्षेत्रफल , the प्रशांत  , Atlantic , Indian , Southern ( Antarctic ) , and Arctic Oceans .
The  शब्द `` समुद्र `` is प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably साथ `` समंदर '' , लकिन सख्ती बोलना  a sea is a body of saline water ( possibly a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land .
Earth is the only planet known to have  an समंदर ( or कोई विशाल amounts of खोलें द्रव जल )  .
Approximately 72 % of the planet 's surface ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is  covered by saline जल कि is customarily विभाजित into अनेक प्रिंसिपल महासागर और छोटी समंदर , साथ the समंदर covering लगभग 71 % of  the Earth 's surface .
In terms of the hydrosphere of the  धरती , the समंदर contains 97 % of the धरती 's  water .
Oceanographers have stated that out of 97  % , तभी 5 % of the समंदर as a पूरे on धरती  has been explored .
Because it is the principal  घटक of धरती 's जलमंडल , the संसार समंदर is अभिन्न to सब ज्ञात जीवन , फ़ॉर्म भाग of the कार्बन  cycle , and influences climate and weather patterns .
The total volume  is लगभग 1.3 अरब घन किलोमीटर ( 310  million cu mi ) with an average depth of .
it is the आवास of 230,000 ज्ञात प्रजाति , हालांकि much of the समंदर 's गहराइयों remain unexplored  and it is estimated that over two million marine species exist .
The origin of Earth 's oceans is still unknown , but oceans are believed  to have formed in the hadean काल और may have महरूम the impetus लिये the emergence of जीवन  .
Extraterrestrial oceans may  be रचित of a चौड़ी दायरा of तत्व और यौगिकों  .
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes of  टाइटन , हालांकि वहीँ is प्रमाण लिये the अस्तित्व of महासागर elsewhere in the  Solar System .
Early in their geologic histories , Mars and  शुक्र हैं theorized to have था विशाल जल  oceans .
The Mars  समंदर परिकल्पना suggests कि nearly a तीसरा of the सतह of मंगल थी एकबार covered by जल , हालांकि  the water on Mars is no longer oceanic , and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus .
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its  जमने पाइंट , so कि जल might मौजूद in विशाल quantities in extraterrestrial environments as brine  or convecting ice .
अपुष्ट महासागर हैं speculated beneath the सतह of अनेक बौना ग्रह और प्राकृतिक satellites ; notably , the  ocean of Europa is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth .
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are also believed to possess  द्रव वायुमंडलीय परतों of yet to be पुष्टि रचनाएं  .
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets  और exomoons , सहित सतह महासागर of द्रव जल भीतर a परितारकीय  habitable zone .
Ocean planets are a  काल्पनिक प्रकार of ग्रह साथ a सतह completely covered  with liquid .
Elvis Aaron Presley ( January 8 , 1935 –  अगस्त 16 , 1977 ) थी an अमरीकी सिंगर और कर्ता  .
A  सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक , he is commonly ज्ञात by  the single name Elvis .
One of the most popular musicians of the 20th  सदी , he is प्रायः referred to as the `` किंग of चट्टान और फेंकें ''  or `` the King '' .
Born in Tupelo , Mississippi ,  प्रेस्ली स्थानांतरित to मेम्फिस , टेनेसी , साथ उसके परिवार  at the age of 13 .
He began his career there in 1954 , working with Sun Records owner Sam Phillips , who wanted to  लाओ the ध्वनि of african-american म्यूज़िक to  a wider audience .
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and  bassist विधेयक ब्लैक , प्रेस्ली थी the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण popularizer of rockabilly , an uptempo  , backbeat -driven fusion of country and rhythm and blues .
RCA Victor acquired  उसके अनुबंध in a सौदे arranged by कर्नल tom पार्कर , जो गई on to मैनेज the सिंगर लिये over दो दशकों  .
Presley 's  पहला आरसीए सिंगल , `` heartbreak होटल `` , released  in January 1956 , was a number-one hit .
He became the  अग्रणी फिगर of the newly लोकप्रिय ध्वनि of चट्टान और फेंकें  with a series of network television appearances and chart-topping records .
His energized interpretations of songs , many from African-American sources , and his  uninhibited प्रदर्शन स्टाइल बना उसे enormously popular—and विवादास्पद  .
In  नवम्बर 1956 , he बना उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू  in Love Me Tender .
Drafted into military service in 1958 ,  प्रेस्ली relaunched उसके रिकॉर्डिंग करियर दो सालो बाद साथ कुछ of उसके सबसे commercially कामयाब  work .
He staged few concerts however , and guided by Parker , proceeded to  devote much of the 1960s to बनाना हॉलीवुड फिल्मों और साउंडट्रैक एल्बम , सबसे of उन्हें critically derided  .
In  1968 , बाद सात सालो दूर इससे the स्टेज , he लौटे to सजीव प्रदर्शन in a मनाये वापसी  television special that led to an extended Las Vegas concert residency and a string of profitable tours .
In 1973  प्रेस्ली मंचन the पहला कॉन्सर्ट ब्रॉडकास्ट globally via उपग्रह  , Aloha from Hawaii .
Prescription drug abuse  severely deteriorated उसके स्वास्थ्य , और he died एकाएक in 1977 at the आयु  of 42 .
Presley is regarded as one of the  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आंकड़े of 20th-century लोकप्रिय संस्कृति  .
He had a versatile voice and  unusually चौड़ी कामयाबी encompassing अनेक जाति , सहित देश , पॉप ballads , इन्जील , और ब्लूज़  .
He is the best-selling solo  कलाकार in the इतिहास of लोकप्रिय  music .
Nominated for 14  प्रतिस्पर्धी grammys , he जीती तीन , और प्राप्त the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि  Award at age 36 .
He has  महरूम inducted into अनेक म्यूज़िक हॉल  of fame .
A  कांच of रूट बियर साथ  foam
Root beer is a carbonated , sweetened beverage , originally made  using the रूट of a sassafras संयंत्र ( or the छाल of a sassafras पेड़ ) as the प्राथमिक स्वाद  .
Root beer , popularized in  उत्तर अमेरिका , आता in दो फ़ॉर्म : alcoholic  and soft drink .
The historical root beer was  analogous to छोटी बियर in कि the प्रक्रम provided a पेय  with a very low alcohol content .
हालांकि जड़ें हैं प्रयुक्त as the सोर्स of अनेक नरम  drinks throughout the world , often different names are used .
Fluorescent minerals  emit दृश्य लाइट जब उजागर to पराबैंगनी लाइट
प्रतिदीप्ति is the उत्सर्जन of लाइट by a पदार्थ कि रै अवशोषित  light or other electromagnetic radiation .
It  is a रूप of  luminescence .
In most cases , the emitted light has a longer  wavelength , और इसलिए निम्नतर उर्जा , than the अवशोषित विकिरण  .
However , when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense , it is possible  लिये एक इलेक्ट्रॉन to अवशोषित दो photons ; इस two-photon अवशोषण can सीसे to उत्सर्जन of विकिरण having a shorter wavelength than the  absorbed radiation .
The emitted radiation may also be of the  वही wavelength as the अवशोषित विकिरण , termed `` अनुनाद  fluorescence '' .
The most striking examples of fluorescence occur  जब the अवशोषित विकिरण is in the पराबैंगनी प्रदेश of the वर्णक्रम , और यूँ अदृश्य to the  human eye , and the emitted light is in the visible region .
Fluorescence has many practical applications , including mineralogy , gemology , chemical  सेंसर ( प्रतिदीप्ति स्पेक्ट्रमिकी ) , fluorescent लेबलिंग , dyes , biological डिटेक्टरों , और , सबसे commonly , fluorescent  lamps .
Informal logic , intuitively ,  refers to the सिद्धान्त of लॉजिक और लॉजिकल विचार बाहर of  a formal setting .
however , शायद क्युकी of the अनौपचारिक in the शीर्षक , the  precise definition of informal logic is a matter of some dispute .
Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair define informal logic as `` a branch of logic whose task is to develop non-formal standards ,  मापदण्ड , प्रक्रियाओं लिये the विश्लेषण , निर्वचन , मूल्यांकन ,  criticism and construction of argumentation . ''
This definition reflects what had been implicit in their  अभ्यास और कया अन्य यहूद doing in उनके अनौपचारिक लॉजिक ग्रन्थ .
Informal logic is associated with ( informal ) fallacies , critical thinking , the  सोच कौशल गति और the interdisciplinary पूछताछ ज्ञात as argumentation  theory .
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that the label `` informal logic '' covers a `` collection of normative  approaches to the पढ़ाई of तर्क in ordinary भाषा कि remain करीब to the अभ्यास of argumentation than औपचारिक  logic . ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60 , with the years of  the ग्रेट अवसाद ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted  .
Unemployment rate in the  us 1910–1960 , साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद  ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression began in August of 1929 ,  जब the संयुक्त राज्य अर्थव्यवस्था पहला गई into an आर्थिक मंदी  .
हालांकि the देश खर्च दो महीने साथ घटती जीडीपी , it थी नहीं जबतक the वॉल गली क्रैश of अक्तूबर  , 1929 that the effects of a declining economy were felt , and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued .
the मार्केट क्रैश चिह्नित the शुरूआत of a दशक of ऊँची बेरोजगारी  , poverty , low profits , deflation , plunging farm incomes , and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement .
Although its causes are still uncertain and controversial , the net  प्रभाव थी a अचानक और सामान्य घाटा of विश्वास in the आर्थिक भविष्य  .
The usual explanations include numerous factors , especially high consumer debt , ill-regulated markets  कि permitted overoptimistic लोन by बैंको और निवेशकों , और the कमी of high-growth नई उद्योग , सब interacting to बनाएँ a downward आर्थिक सर्पिल of घटाया बिता , गिरना विश्वास , और lowered  production .
Industries that suffered the  सबसे शामिल निर्माण , कृषि as dust-bowl शर्तें persisted in the agricultural heartland , शिपिंग , खनन , और लॉगिंग as खूब as टिकाऊ goods जैसे ऑटोमोबाइल  and appliances that could be postponed .
The economy reached bottom in the winter of  1932–33 ; तब आए चार सालो of बहुत रैपिड विकास जबतक 1937 , जब the मंदी of 1937 brought  back 1934 levels of unemployment .
The  अवसाद caused प्रमुख  political changes in America .
Three years into the  अवसाद , हर्बर्ट हूवर खोया the 1932 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव  to Franklin Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide .
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan , the New Deal , instituted  unprecedented कार्यक्रम लिये राहत , रिकवरी और सुधार , और brought परिचय a प्रमुख realignment of अमरीकी  politics .
The  अवसाद भी resulted in an बढ़ाएँ of करणों of लोगों to अन्य देशों  for the first time in American history .
For example , some immigrants went back to their  देशी देशों , और कुछ देशी us नागरिकों गई to कनाडा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , और दक्षिण  Africa .
It also resulted in  the द्रव्यमान माइग्रेशन of लोगों इससे badly hit क्षेत्रों in the ग्रेट मैदान और the दक्षिण to स्थान ऐसे as कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the उत्तर , क्रमशः ( देखिए  Okies and the Great Migration of African Americans ) .
Racial  तनाव भी increased दौरान  this time .
by the 1940s आव्रजन था लौटे  back to normal , and emigration declined .
A well-known  उदाहरण of an emigrant थी फ़्रैंक mccourt , जो गई to  Ireland , as recounted in his book Angela 's Ashes .
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern  theories of अर्थशास्त्र और resulted in अनेक परिवर्तन in कैसा the सरकारी dealt साथ आर्थिक downturns , ऐसे as the उपयोग of stimulus पैकेज  , Keynesian economics , and Social Security .
It also shaped modern American literature ,  resulting in प्रसिद्ध novels ऐसे as जॉन steinbeck 's `` the अंगूर of प्रकोप `` और ``  Of Mice and Men `` .
The Great  अवसाद of the 1930s प्रारंभ साथ the भण्डार मार्केट  crash of October 1929 .
तुर्कों ( ) , officially the गणतंत्र of तुर्कों , is a transcontinental देश , स्तिथ ज़्यादातर  on Anatolia in Western Asia and on East Thrace in Southeastern Europe .
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : Bulgaria to  the उत्तरपश्चिम ; यूनानियों to the वेस्ट ; जॉर्जिया to the पूर्वोत्तर ; अर्मेनिया , इरान और the अज़रबैजानी exclave  of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast .
The  भूमध्यसागरीय समुद्र is to the दक्षिण ; the ईजियन समुद्र is to the वेस्ट  ; and the Black Sea is to the north .
The Sea of Marmara , the Bosphorus and the  dardanelles ( जिससे साथ रूप the तुर्की straits ) demarcate the boundary between thrace और आनातोलिया ; वे भी पृथक  Europe and Asia .
Turkey 's  स्थान at the क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय और एशिया makes  it a country of significant geostrategic importance .
The country 's official language is Turkish , a Turkic  भाषा , जिससे is बोला by लगभग 85 % of the जनसांख्यिकी  as mother tongue .
The most numerous ethnic group is the Turks , who constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the  जनसांख्यिकी according to the संसार factbook  .
Kurds are the largest ethnic minority and , according to the same source  , क्रमांक around 18 % of the जनसांख्यिकी जबकि अन्य जातीय अल्पसंख्यकों हैं अनुमानित to be  at 7–12 % .
the विशाल बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी  is Muslim .
The area now called Turkey has  महरूम inhabited चूंकि the paleolithic , सहित विभिन्न प्राचीन आनातोलियाई सभ्यताओं  and Thracian peoples .
After  सिकंदर the ग्रेट 's conquest , the क्षेत्रफल थी hellenized , जिससे जारी साथ the रोमन नियम  and the transition into the Byzantine Empire .
The  सलजूक़ turks began migrating into the क्षेत्रफल in the 11th सदी , starting  the process of Turkification , which was greatly accelerated by the Seljuk victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071 .
The Seljuk  सल्तनत of rûm शासित आनातोलिया जबतक the mongol आक्रमण in 1243 , upon जिससे it  disintegrated into several small Turkish beyliks .
Starting from the late 13th century , the Ottoman beylik united Anatolia and  निर्मित an साम्राज्य encompassing much of southeastern यूरोपीय , पश्चिमी एशिया और उत्तर  Africa .
बाद the उस्मानी साम्राज्य collapsed following इसके शिकस्त in संसार  War I , parts of it were occupied by the victorious Allies .
A cadre of young military officers , led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his colleagues ,  व्यवस्थित a कामयाब प्रतिरोध to the allies ; in 1923 वे स्थापित the आधुनिक गणतंत्र of तुर्कों , साथ अतातुर्क  as its first president .
Turkey is a  लोकतांत्रिक , धर्मनिरपेक्ष , एकात्मक , संवैधानिक गणतंत्र  with a diverse cultural heritage .
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the West through  सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the परिषद of यूरोपीय , नाटो , oecd , osce और the g-20 प्रमुख  economies .
Turkey began full membership negotiations with the European Union in 2005 , having been an associate  सदस्य of the यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ चूंकि 1963 और having joined the eu कस्टम संघ in 1995  .
Turkey has also fostered close cultural ,  राजनैतिक और आर्थिक संबंध साथ the मध्य ईस्ट , काकेशस , the turkic राज्य of सेंट्रल एशिया और the अफ़्रीकी देशों through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the turkic  Council , Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture , Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation .
तुर्कों 's growing अर्थव्यवस्था और राजनयिक पहलों have  led to its recognition as a regional power .
Turkey is the  संसार 's 17th largest अर्थव्यवस्था by नाममात्र जीडीपी और the 16th largest  by purchasing power parity .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as  whoopi गोल्डबर्ग ( , ( born नवम्बर 13 , 1955 ) is an अमरीकी comedienne , अभिनेत्री  , singer-songwriter , political activist , author and talk show host .
Goldberg made her film  डेब्यू in the रंग जामुनी ( 1985 ) , playing celie , a mistreated ब्लैक  woman in the Deep South .
She received a  नामांकन लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री और जीती उसके पहला सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये उसके भूमिका  in the film .
In  1990 , वो निभाई oda mae भूरा , a wacky मानसिक helping a slain man (  Patrick Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this  बना गोल्डबर्ग तभी the दूसरी ब्लैक स्त्री in the इतिहास of the अकादमी पुरस्कार to जीत an एक्टिंग oscar—the पहला होने हैटी mcdaniel  who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
notable बाद films शामिल सिस्टर अधिनियम और सिस्टर अधिनियम 2 , the खिलाड़ी , बना in अमेरिका  , How Stella Got Her Groove Back , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender  guinan in स्टार ट्रेक : the अगला पीढी , as टेरी doolittle in jumpin ' जोकर फ्लैश , और as कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली , as खूब as the  voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King .
गोल्डबर्ग रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये  13 Emmy Awards for her work in television .
She was co-producer of the popular game show  हॉलीवुड वर्गों इससे 1998 to  2004 .
वो रै महरूम the मॉडरेटर of the दिन  talk show The View since 2007 .
Goldberg  रै a ग्रैमी , दो दिन emmys , दो सुनहरी ग्लोब्स ,  a Tony ( for production , not acting ) , and an Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award , four People 's Choice  पुरस्कार , और रै महरूम सम्मानित साथ a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति  .
She is one of the few  मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have जीती an एमी , ग्रैमी , ऑस्कर , और टोनी पुरस्कार  .
Augusta is a consolidated city in the U.S. state of Georgia , located at  the पतन लकीर of the savannah नदी , at the सिर of इसके navigable  portion .
As of the 2010 census ,  the augusta– रिचमंड काउंटी जनसांख्यिकी थी 195,844 नहीं गिनती the unconsolidated शहरों of hephzibah  and Blythe .
Augusta is the principal city of the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , जिससे as of 2010 था an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी of 556,877 , बनाना it दोनो the second-largest नगर और the second-largest  metro area in the state after Atlanta .
It is the 116th-largest  नगर in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Internationally  , augusta is बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये होस्टिंग the  Masters Tournament in golf each spring .
A  cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क  which contains data .
The name is an  एक्रोनिम जिससे स्टैंड लिये `` कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क read-only  memory `` .
Computers  can पढ़ा cd-roms , लकिन can नहीं लिखें  on them .
cd-roms हैं popularly प्रयुक्त to वितरित कंप्यूटर तन्त्र , सहित वीडियो खेल और  multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced CDs , hold both  कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और ऑडियो साथ the latter सक्षम of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी , जबकि आंकड़ा ( ऐसे as तन्त्र or डिजिटल वीडियो ) is तभी usable on a कंप्यूटर ( ऐसे  as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
the पीला किताब is the तकनीकी मानक  that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
एक of a नियत of color-bound किताबे कि contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप , the पीला किताब , निर्मित by सोनी  and Philips , was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It  adapted the स्वरूप to  hold any form of data .
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks before 1986 , and  ज्ञात colloquially as the चीलों ) हैं a पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी  team based in Chicago , Illinois .
They are members of the Central  प्रभाग of the पश्चिमी सम्मेलन of the नेशनल हॉकी लीग (  NHL ) .
They have won  चार स्टेनली कप championships चूंकि उनके founding in 1926 , सबसे  recently in 2009–10 .
The Blackhawks are one of the Original Six NHL teams , along with the  डेट्रॉयट रेड विंग्स , मॉन्ट्रियल canadiens , टोरंटो मेपल leafs , बोस्टन bruins और नई  York Rangers .
Since the  ब्लैकहॉक्स have निभाई उनके घर खेल at the संयुक्त बीच बाद having खर्च 65 सालो playing  at Chicago Stadium .
Lent  याजकों carrying आउट a गली  procession during Holy Week .
The violet  रंग is प्रायः संबद्ध साथ penance  and detachment .
Similar  ईसाई penitential अभ्यास is देखी in अन्य कैथोलिक देशों , sometimes  associated with mortification of the flesh .
Granada  , निकारागुआ .
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn  observance in the liturgical साल of अनेक ईसाई denominations , स्थायी लिये a  period of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday .
In the general Latin-rite and  सबसे पश्चिमी denominations lent is लिया to चलाएं इससे राख बुधवार to maundy गुरुवार  ( Holy Thursday ) morning or to Easter Eve .
In the Catholic Church , Lent  lasts जबतक पावन गुरुवार , जबकि अन्य denominations चलाएं  until Easter Eve .
The traditional  purpose of lent is the तैयारी of the आस्तिक through दुआ , penance , तौबा , almsgiving  , and self-denial .
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of Holy Week  , अंकन the मौत , दफ़न और क़यामत of यीशु , जिससे recalls the कार्यक्रम of the बाइबल जब यीशु is crucified on शुभ शुक्रवार , जिससे तब culminates in the जश्न on ईस्टर  Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ .
During Lent , many  of the वफादार कमिट to उपवास or giving up निश्चित  types of luxuries as a form of penitence .
The  स्टेशन of the क्रॉस , a devotional commemoration of मसीह 's carrying the क्रॉस और of उसके निष्पादन  , are often observed .
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant  चर्च हटाएँ पुष्प इससे उनके altars , जबकि crucifixes , धार्मिक मूर्तियाँ , और  other elaborate religious symbols are often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event .
In certain pious Catholic  देशों , कुछ adherents चिह्नित the ऋतु साथ the परंपरागत abstention  from the consumption of meat .
In some countries , grand religious processions and cultural  कस्टम हैं observed , और the वफादार attempt to विज़िट सात चर्च दौरान पावन सप्ताह in सम्मान of यीशु मसीह heading to माउंट  Calvary .
Lent is traditionally described as  स्थायी लिये चालीस दिनों , in commemoration of the चालीस दिनों जिससे , according to the gospels  of Matthew , Mark and Luke , Jesus spent fasting in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry , where he endured temptation by the Devil .
However ,  अलग ईसाई denominations गणना the चालीस दिनों of lent differently  .
In most Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as part of  lent ; यूँ the काल इससे राख बुधवार जबतक ईस्टर consists of 40 दिनों जब the  Sundays are excluded .
however in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर lent is अभी लिया to समाप्त on पावन गुरुवार बल्कि than ईस्टर संध्या , और hence  lasts 38 days excluding Sundays , or 44 days in total .
This event , along with  इसके परहेज़गारों कस्टम हैं observed by catholics , lutherans , methodists  , Presbyterians , and Anglicans .
स्थान of chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति  plant
The abandoned  नगर of pripyat साथ chernobyl संयंत्र in the  distance
abandoned आवास  blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster ( , Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that occurred on  26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी ssr ) , जिससे थी अंतर्गत the सीधा क्षेत्राधिकार of the सेंट्रल अधिकारियों of the  Soviet Union .
An explosion and fire released  विशाल quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय अणु into the माहौल , जिससे स्प्रेड  over much of the western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant  दुर्घटना in इतिहास , और is एक of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने  the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater  प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000 मजदूर और लागत an अनुमानित 18 अरब  rubles .
The official Soviet casualty count of 31  मौतों रै महरूम विवादित , और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers और deformities हैं स्टिल होने accounted लिये  .
In grammar , a subject complement is a  predicative अभिव्यक्ति कि फ़ॉलो a linking क्रिया ( copula ) और कि complements ( completes  ) the subject of the sentence by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it .
in the पूर्व मामला , a renaming संज्ञा phrase ऐसे as a संज्ञा or सर्वनाम is  called a predicative nominal .
An adjective  following the copula और describing the विषय  is called a predicative adjective .
In either case the predicative  पूरक in प्रभाव mirrors the विषय  .
Subject complements are  प्रयुक्त साथ a छोटी क्लास of क्रियाएँ पुकारा linking क्रियाएँ or copula  , of which be is the most common .
Since copula  हैं stative क्रियाएँ , विषय complements हैं  not affected by any action of the verb .
Subject complements are typically  नहीं clause वितर्क , nor हैं वे clause  adjuncts .
Throughout the  fifty-five साल इतिहास of the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , अनेक  significant records have been set .
इस पेज तभी शामिल the प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार  won by various artists .
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the National  अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences ऐसे as आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार , trustees पुरस्कार ,  Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys ( known as the  शिल्प & उत्पादन फ़ील्ड ) कि may have महरूम प्रस्तुत to  the artist ( s ) .
Marshall Bruce  mathers iii ( born अक्तूबर 17 , 1972 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम एमिनेम ( stylized as eminǝm  ) and by his alter ego Slim Shady , is an American rapper , record producer , songwriter and actor .
Eminem , along with his solo career , is a member of his group  d12 , और भी एक हाफ of the हिप हॉप duo ख़राब meets दुष्ट , साथ रॉयस  da 5'9 '' .
Eminem is  एक of the best-selling कलाकारों in the संसार और is the best-selling  artist of the 2000s .
He has been listed and ranked as one of the  महानतम कलाकारों of सब समय by अनेक मैगज़ीन , सहित रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका जिससे क्रमित  him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
The  वही पत्रिका घोषित उसे the किंग  of Hip Hop .
Including his work with D12 and Bad Meets Evil ,  एमिनेम रै हासिल टेन number-one एल्बम on  the Billboard 200 .
He has sold more than 100 million records  विश्वव्यापी , सहित 42 लाख ट्रैक्स और 49.1 लाख एल्बम  in the United States .
As an  भूमिगत rapper एमिनेम released उसके डेब्यू  solo album , Infinite in 1996 .
The  एल्बम थी a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक  failure .
He gained mainstream popularity in 1999  बाद the रिलीज of उसके major-label डेब्यू एल्बम the पतला  Shady LP .
the lp भी अर्जित एमिनेम उसके पहला  Grammy Award for Best Rap Album .
His next two records The Marshall Mathers LP , and The Eminem Show , also won Best Rap  एल्बम ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , बनाना एमिनेम the पहला कलाकार to जीत बेहतरीन रैप एल्बम लिये तीन लगातार एलपी  .
इस थी followed by another स्टुडियो रिलीज  in 2004 titled Encore .
Eminem  तब गई on अंतराल बाद touring in  2005 .
He released his first album in five  सालो titled पतन , on may 15 ,  2009 .
In 2010 , Eminem released his  सातवाँ स्टुडियो एल्बम रिकवरी  .
Recovery was an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय कामयाबी और थी नामित the बेहतरीन selling एल्बम of 2010 विश्वव्यापी , joining  The Eminem Show , which was the best seller of 2002 .
Eminem won Grammy  पुरस्कार लिये दोनो पतन और रिकवरी , giving  him a total of 13 Grammys in his career .
Eminem has opened other  ventures , सहित उसके अपना रिकार्ड लेबल छायादार रिकॉर्ड  with his manager Paul Rosenberg .
He also  रै उसके अपना रेडियो चैनल , शेड 45 on sirius  XM Radio .
Eminem began an acting  करियर in 2002 , जब he स्ट्रक्चर in the हिप हॉप  drama film 8 Mile .
He won the  अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन असली सोंग , बनने the पहला  rap artist ever to win the award .
He has also made  कैमियो दिखावे in the धो ( 2001 ) , मजेदार लोगों ( 2009  ) and the television series Entourage .
The acre is a unit of  क्षेत्रफल प्रयुक्त in the इम्पीरियल और u.S. प्रथागत  systems .
An  एकड़ is परिचय 40 % of a हेक्टेयर – थोड़ा  smaller than an American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a few notable exceptions  शामिल the संयुक्त राज्य , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , बर्मा और the संयुक्त किंगडम ( as of 2010 , the एकड़ is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त किंगडम , हालांकि is स्टिल प्रयुक्त in  real estate descriptions ) .
it is स्टिल प्रयुक्त , to  some extent , in Canada .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac , और is पारिभाषित as 1/640  of a square mile .
The most commonly used acre today  is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़  .
in the संयुक्त राज्य दोनो the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the  slightly different US survey acre are in use .
The most common  उपयोग of the एकड़ is to माप  tracts of land .
One  अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224  square metres .
During the Middle  आयु , an एकड़ थी the राशि of जमीन कि could be plowed in एक दिन साथ  a yoke of oxen .
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of  the विधि of संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान led to अनेक नई निष्कर्षों in the 19th  century .
Joseph Proust 's law of  definite proportions और जॉन डाल्टन 's परमाणु सिद्धान्त branched इससे the discoveries  of Antoine Lavoisier .
लाव्वाज़्ये 's quantitative प्रयोग नाज़िल कि दहन शामिल ऑक्सीजन बल्कि than कया थी previously  thought to be phlogiston .
The law of conservation of mass , or principle of mass conservation , states that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and  उर्जा ( दोनो of जिससे have द्रव्यमान ) , the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली जरूर remain निरंतर over समय , as प्रणाली द्रव्यमान can नहीं बदलें मात्रा if it is नहीं  added or removed .
Hence , the quantity of  द्रव्यमान is `` conserved '' over समय  .
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed , although  it may be rearranged in स्पेस , or the entities संबद्ध साथ it may be बदला in रूप , as लिये उदाहरण जब लाइट or शारीरिक  work is transformed into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had contributed .
The law  implies ( requires ) कि दौरान कोई रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया , नाभिकीय प्रतिक्रिया , or रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय in an पृथक प्रणाली , the द्रव्यमान of the reactants  or starting material must equal the mass of the products .
The  अवधारणा of द्रव्यमान संरक्षण is widely प्रयुक्त in अनेक फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रसायन ,  mechanics , and fluid dynamics .
Historically , mass conservation was discovered in  रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये in the लेट 18th सदी , और थी of निर्णायक महत्व in the प्रगति इससे alchemy to the आधुनिक प्राकृतिक विज्ञान  of chemistry .
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to  ऐसे ऊँची सन्निकटन कि it विफल तभी लिये the ऊँची energies treated by the बाद refinements of आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त , लकिन वरना remains उपयोगी और fear सटीक लिये सबसे रासायनिक calculations  , even in modern practice .
In special relativity , needed for accuracy when large energy transfers between systems is involved , the difference between thermodynamically closed and isolated systems  becomes महत्वपूर्ण , चूंकि संरक्षण of द्रव्यमान is सख्ती और perfectly upheld तभी लिये so-called पृथक प्रणालियों , i.e . those completely पृथक इससे सब exchanges साथ  the environment .
In this circumstance , the mass-energy equivalence theorem states  कि द्रव्यमान संरक्षण is समतुल्य to कुल उर्जा संरक्षण , जिससे is the पहला विधि of ऊष्मागतिकी  .
By contrast , for a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e. , one which is  बंद to exchanges of पदार्थ , लकिन खोलें to exchanges of non-material उर्जा , ऐसे as ऊष्मा और कार्य , साथ the परिवेश ) द्रव्यमान  is ( usually ) only approximately conserved .
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory , although the change is usually small , since  अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of ऐसे उर्जा ( by तुलना साथ ordinary अनुभव ) carry तभी a छोटी राशि of द्रव्यमान ( again by ordinary मानकों of  measurement ) .
In special relativity , mass is not converted to energy , since energy in all of its forms always retains  इसके समतुल्य राशि of द्रव्यमान throughout कोई परिवर्तन or translocation into , or  out of , a system .
However , certain types of matter (  a अलग अवधारणा ) may be परिवर्तित to उर्जा , so long as the द्रव्यमान of  the system is unchanged in the process .
However , if such  उर्जा is removed इससे प्रणालियों , वे जरूर खोना the द्रव्यमान कि  is associated with it .
In general relativity , mass ( and energy )  संरक्षण in expanding आयतन of स्पेस is a जटिल अवधारणा , विषय to अलग परिभाषाएं , और neither द्रव्यमान nor उर्जा is as सख्ती और बस conserved as is the मामला in खास आपेक्षिकता  and in Minkowski space .
For a discussion  , देखिए द्रव्यमान in सामान्य आपेक्षिकता  .
A pig is any of the animals in the genus  सस , भीतर the suidae परिवार of even-toed  ungulates .
सूअर शामिल the घरेलू सुअर ,  its ancestor the wild boar , and several other wild relatives .
Young and  छोटी सूअर हैं ज्ञात as  piglets .
Pigs are  omnivores और हैं अत्यधिक सोशल और बुद्धिमान  animals .
8-inch , -inch  , और -inch फ्लॉपी  disks
8-inch , -inch ( पूरा ऊँचाई  ) , and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's `` floppy ''  चुम्बकीय सामग्री , removed इससे इसके आवास
A floppy disk , or diskette , is a disk storage  मीडियम रचित of a डिस्क of पतला और लचीली चुम्बकीय भंडार मीडियम , sealed in a आयताकार प्लास्टिक वाहक  lined with fabric that removes dust particles .
They are read and  लिखा by a फ्लॉपी डिस्क ड्राइव (  FDD ) .
Floppy disks , initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes , were a ubiquitous form of data  भंडार और एक्सचेंज इससे the mid-1970s खूब into the पहला दशक of the 21st सदी  .
By 2010 , computer motherboards were rarely manufactured  साथ फ्लॉपी ड्राइव support ; `` floppies could be प्रयुक्त as an बाह्य usb ड्राइव , लकिन `` , 8 `` , और non-standard ड्राइव could तभी  be handled by old equipment .
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses , especially with legacy industrial computer equipment , they have been superseded by data  भंडार विधि साथ much वृहद क्षमता , ऐसे as usb फ्लैश ड्राइव , पोर्टेबल बाह्य मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव , ऑप्टिकल discs , मेमोरी  cards , and computer networks .
an एनिमेटेड आरेख  of a cutter
In baseball , a cutter , or cut fastball , is a type of fastball which breaks  थोड़ा toward the पिचर 's दस्ताने पक्ष as it पहुँच घर  plate .
This pitch is somewhere between a slider and a fastball , as it is  प्रायः thrown तेज़ than a स्लाइडर लकिन साथ अधिक गति than a ठेठ fastball  .
कुछ pitchers उपयोग a कटर as a रास्ता  to prevent hitters from expecting their regular fastballs .
A common technique used to throw a cutter is to use a four-seam  fastball पकड़ साथ the बेसबॉल नियत थोड़ा बंद बीच in the हाथ  .
When a batter is able to hit a  कटर पिच , it प्रायः परिणाम in नरम सम्पर्क और an आसान आउट , due to the पिच 's गति keeping the बॉल दूर  from the bat 's sweet spot .
the कटर is typically 2–5 किमी धीमा  than a pitcher 's four-seam fastball .
In 2010 , the  औसत पिच वर्गीकृत as a कटर by pitchf/x thrown by a right-handed  pitcher was 88.6 mph ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 mph .
``  कया it takes '' is a शक्ति ballad by अमरीकी मुश्किल चट्टान बैंड  Aerosmith .
It was written by Steven  टायलर , जो पेरी , और डेसमंड चाइल्ड  .
It was released in 1990 as the third  सिंगल इससे एरोस्मिथ 's critically और commercially कामयाब 1989 एल्बम  Pump .
In the video The  बनाना of पंप , a & r man जॉन kalodner वर्णित the सोंग  as `` a masterpiece '' .
During live performances , Tyler sings  the पहला श्लोक a cappella और बेल्ट आउट एक of उसके हस्ताक्षर चिल्लाती  right before the chorus .
The album  संस्करण of the सोंग is followed by an बेनाम छुपा  track .
Head of  odysseus इससे a यूनानी 2nd सदी bc संगमरमर समूह representing odysseus blinding polyphemus , मिला at the विला of  Tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail  of an प्राचीन रोमन मोज़ेक of ulysses  in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; Greek : , ) , also known by the  रोमन नाम ulysses ( ; ) , थी a legendary यूनानी किंग of ithaca और a नायिका of होमर  's epic poem the Odyssey .
odysseus भी plays a कुंजी भूमिका in होमर 's इलियड और अन्य works  in that same Epic Cycle .
Husband of Penelope , father  of telemachus , और बेटे of laërtes ( or sisyphus ) और anticlea , odysseus is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके brilliance ,  guile , and versatility ( polytropos ) , and is hence known by the epithet Odysseus the Cunning ( mētis , or `` cunning intelligence `` ) .
He is  सबसे प्रसिद्ध लिये the टेन eventful सालो he took to वापसी घर बाद  the decade-long Trojan War and his famous Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy .
Erie is  a statutory कस्बा in बोल्डर और वेल्ड काउंटी in the u.S.  state of Colorado .
The population according to the 2010 census is  18,135 और थी अंकित as 6,291 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी  .
The Town of Erie is located just west of I-25 for easy  अभिगम to i-70 , डेनवर अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र और कोलोराडो 's संपूर्ण  Front Range .
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square miles , extending from  the उत्तर पक्ष of राज्य राजमार्ग 52 दक्षिण to राज्य राजमार्ग 7 , और between us 287 on the वेस्ट और अंतरराज्यीय  25 to the east .
Erie is approximately 35 minutes from Denver  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , 25 मिनट्स to डेनवर और 20 मिनट्स  from Boulder .
The Board of Trustees serves as the legislative and governing body  of the कस्बा of erie और is जिम्मेदार लिये establishing कस्बा नीतियों और लक्ष्य  .
The Board has the  प्राधिकार to अपनाना कानून , ordinances और रिज़ॉल्यूशन as needed to conduct the कारोबार of the कस्बा , और by अध्यादेश  may enter into contracts or intergovernmental agreements to furnish , receive services or to provide for cooperative service delivery .
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees , the Town Administrator is the chief operating and  प्रशासनिक अधिकारी of the कस्बा और is जिम्मेदार लिये providing पेशेवर नेतृत्व in the प्रशासन और निष्पादन of नीतियों और उद्देश्य  formulated by the Board .
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to communicate and  कार्य साथ the जातियाँ to maintain a सुरक्षित पर्यावरण , prevent अपराधों और enforce  the law , while protecting the rights of all .
Erie Municipal Airport (  eik ) is स्वामित्व और संचालित by the कस्बा of erie और is रणनीतिक स्तिथ in  the Denver-Boulder metropolitan area on Colorado Highway 7 , a little over three miles west of Interstate 25 .
The main runway is concrete  प्रशस्त और 4,700 फीट long .
The is  a घर वीडियो खेल कंसोल उत्पादित by सोनी  Computer Entertainment .
It  is the successor to the प्लेस्टेशन  2 , as part of the PlayStation series .
The PlayStation 3 competes with Microsoft 's  एक्सबॉक्स 360 और निन्टेंडो 's वी as भाग of the सातवाँ पीढी  of video game consoles .
It was first released on November 11 , 2006 , in  जापानी , साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय बाज़ार following shortly thereafter  .
The  कंसोल थी पहला officially घोषित at  E3 2005 .
Originally set for a spring 2006 release date , it was delayed several times until  आखिरकार hitting स्टोर्स at the समाप्त of the साल  .
It was the first and currently  तभी कंसोल to उपयोग blu-ray डिस्क as इसके प्राथमिक  storage medium .
Major features of the console include its unified  ऑनलाइन गेमिंग सेवा , the प्लेस्टेशन संजाल , और इसके कनेक्टिविटी साथ the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल  and PlayStation Vita , In September 2009 the updated PlayStation 3 Slim , was released .
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the original  संस्करण , हालांकि it lacks प्लेस्टेशन 2 पीछे संगतता ( removed on बाद असली मॉडल ) ,  but notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design .
As of  नवम्बर 4 , 2012 , 70 लाख प्लेस्टेशन 3s  have been sold worldwide .
Its  successor , प्लेस्टेशन 4 , is नियत लिये  a Q4 2013 release .
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech , 1st Marqués de Dalí de Pubol (  may 11 , 1904january 23 , 1989 ) , ज्ञात as साल्वाडोर dalí ( ) , थी a prominent स्पेनी surrealist चित्रकार born in figueres , स्पेन  .
Dalí was a skilled draftsman , best known  लिये the striking और विचित्र बिंब in उसके surrealist  work .
His painterly skills are  प्रायः attributed to the influence of पुनर्जागरण  masters .
His best-known  कार्य , the हठ of मेमोरी ,  was completed in 1931 .
dalí 's expansive कलाकारी रंगमंडल शामिल फिल्मी , मूर्तिकला , और छायाचित्र , in सहयोग साथ  a range of artists in a variety of media .
Dalí attributed his `` love of  सबकुछ कि is gilded और excessive , my जुनून लिये लक्ज़री और my प्रेम of प्राच्य कपडे '' to a self-styled `` अरब lineage  '' , claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors .
Dalí was highly  कल्पनाशील , और भी enjoyed indulging in असामान्य  and grandiose behavior .
His eccentric manner and  attention-grabbing पब्लिक क्रियाएँ sometimes खींचा अधिक ध्यान than उसके कलाकृति , to the dismay of those जो आयोजित उसके कार्य  in high esteem , and to the irritation of his critics .
पारस प्लेटो by  Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study  इंसान संस्कृति , using विधि कि हैं primarily विश्लेषणात्मक , नाजुक , or सट्टे , और having a significant ऐतिहासिक  element , as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences .
The humanities  शामिल प्राचीन और आधुनिक भाषाएं , साहित्य  , philosophy , religion , and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre .
The humanities that are also regarded as  सोशल sciences शामिल इतिहास , मानवशास्त्र , क्षेत्रफल अध्ययन , संचार अध्ययन , सांस्कृतिक अध्ययन , विधि ,  economics and linguistics .
Scholars working in the humanities are  sometimes वर्णित as `` humanists  '' .
However , that  पद भी describes the philosophical स्थिति of मानवतावाद  , which some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject .
Some  द्वितीयक स्कूलों प्रस्ताव मानवता वर्ग , प्रायः consisting  of English literature , global studies , and art .
Human disciplines like history , cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis study subject matters to which the experimental method  करता नहीं लागू , और वे have अभिगम बजाय to the तुलनात्मक विधि और तुलनात्मक शोध  .
The  2005 ब्लू रूम क्रिसमस  Tree
The White House Christmas Tree , also known as the Blue Room Christmas Tree ,  is the आधिकारिक अंदर क्रिसमस पेड़ at the निवास of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ,  the White House .
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White  हाउस sometime in the 19th सदी ( वहीँ हैं varying दावा as to the सटीक साल ) और चूंकि 1961 the पेड़ रै था a प्रसंग  motif at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States .
The President of the United States of America (  potus ) is the सिर of राज्य और सिर of सरकारी  of the United States .
The president leads the executive branch of  the संघीय सरकारी और is the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां  .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in  the अध्यक्ष और आरोप उसे साथ the निष्पादन of संघीय विधि , alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका , राजनयिक , नियामक , और न्यायिक अधिकारियों , और concluding treaties साथ विदेशी शक्तियां  , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal  pardons और reprieves , और to convene और adjourn either  or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States , the power of the president and the federal  सरकारी have grown substantially और प्रत्येक आधुनिक अध्यक्ष , despite possessing no औपचारिक विधान शक्तियां परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स , is largely जिम्मेदार लिये  dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States .
The president is frequently described as the  सबसे शक्तिशाली व्यक्ति in the संसार  .
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a  four-year पद , और is एक of तभी दो nationally निर्वाचित संघीय अधिकारियों , the अन्य होने the वाइस  President of the United States .
The  twenty-second amendment , अपनाया in 1951 , prohibits anyone इससे कभी  being elected to the presidency for a third full term .
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the  प्रेसिडेंसी अधिक than एकबार if कि व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष , or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष , लिये अधिक than दो सालो of another व्यक्ति  's term as president .
In all , 43  individuals have परोसा 55 four-year शर्तें  .
On January  20 , 2009 , बराक ओबामा became the 44th और वर्तमान  president .
On November 6 , 2012 , he was  re-elected और is अनुसूचित to serve जबतक जनवरी  20 , 2017 .
Senses are  physiological capacities of जीवों कि provide आंकड़ा लिये  perception .
The senses and their operation ,  वर्गीकरण , और सिद्धान्त हैं अतिव्यापी विषय पढ़ाई by a किस्में of फ़ील्ड , सबसे notably neuroscience , संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान ( or संज्ञानात्मक विज्ञान  ) , and philosophy of perception .
The nervous system has a specific sensory system or  अंग , समर्पित to प्रत्येक भाव .
Humans have a  multitude of होश  .
sight ( ophthalmoception ) , सुनना ( audioception ) , स्वाद ( gustaoception ) , महकते ( olfacoception  or olfacception ) , and touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized .
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by  the परंपरागत होश exists , सहित तापमान ( thermoception ) , kinesthetic भाव ( proprioception ) , पीड़ा ( nociception ) , संतुलन ( equilibrioception ) , त्वरण ( kinesthesioception )  , and various internal stimuli ( e.g . the different chemoreceptors for detecting salt and carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood ) , only a small number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves .
कया constitutes a भाव is a पदार्थ of कुछ बहस , अग्रणी  to difficulties in defining what exactly a sense is .
पशु भी have receptors to भाव the संसार around उन्हें , साथ डिग्री  of capability varying greatly between species .
Humans have a comparatively weak sense of smell ,  जबकि कुछ पशु may कमी एक or अधिक of the परंपरागत पाँच होश  .
Some animals may also intake and  interpret संवेदी stimuli in बहुत अलग  ways .
Some species of  पशु हैं समर्थ to भाव the संसार in a रास्ता कि इंसानो can नहीं , साथ कुछ प्रजाति समर्थ to भाव विद्युत और चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड  , and detect water pressure and currents .
Spiders (  अनुक्रम araneae ) हैं air-breathing arthropods कि have  eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom .
They are the largest order of  arachnids और रैंक सातवाँ in कुल प्रजाति विविधता  among all other groups of organisms .
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent  मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक , और have become स्थापित in nearly प्रत्येक  habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at least 43,678 spider  प्रजाति , और 109 परिवारों have महरूम अंकित by taxonomists ; however , वहीँ रै महरूम भ्रम भीतर the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as to कैसा सब ये परिवारों  should be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body  खण्ड हैं fused into दो tagmata , the cephalothorax और उदर , और joined  by a small , cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike  कीट , मकड़ियों do नहीं  have antennae .
In all except  the सबसे आदिम समूह , the mesothelae , मकड़ियों have the सबसे centralized बेचैन प्रणालियों of सब arthropods , as सब उनके ganglia  are fused into one mass in the cephalothorax .
नापसंद सबसे arthropods , मकड़ियों have no extensor  muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been  परिवर्धित into spinnerets कि extrude रेशा इससे up to छह प्रकार of रेशा ग्रंथियों भीतर उनके  abdomen .
Spider webs vary widely  in आकार , आकार और the राशि of स्टिकी  thread used .
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest  फ़ॉर्म , और मकड़ियों कि उपज उलझे cobwebs हैं अधिक abundant और विविध than orb-web मकड़ियों  .
spider-like arachnids साथ silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian काल  about , but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets .
True spiders have been found in  carboniferous रॉक्स इससे , और हैं बहुत समान to the सबसे आदिम surviving अनुक्रम ,  the Mesothelae .
The main  समूह of आधुनिक मकड़ियों , mygalomorphae और araneomorphae , पहला  appeared in the Triassic period , before .
A herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi , was described in 2008 , but  सब अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी , ज़्यादातर preying on कीट और on अन्य मकड़ियों , हालांकि a few विशाल प्रजाति भी लो पक्षियों  and lizards .
मकड़ियों उपयोग a चौड़ी दायरा of रणनीति to कैप्चर शिकार : trapping it in स्टिकी webs , lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas  , mimicking the prey to avoid detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing  कंपन , लकिन the क्रियाशील hunters have अधि दृष्टि , और hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in  their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones .
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids , and they liquidize their food by flooding  it साथ digestive एंजाइमों और पीस it साथ the bases of उनके pedipalps , as वे  do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex  प्रेमालाप संस्कार to avoid होने खाया by the महिलाओं  .
Males of most  प्रजाति जीवित a few matings , सीमित मुख्यतः by उनके  short life spans .
महिलाओं बुनते रेशा egg-cases , प्रत्येक of जिससे may contain  hundreds of eggs .
Females of many species care for their young , for example  by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing खाना साथ उन्हें  .
A minority of species are  सोशल , भवन सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस anywhere इससे a few  to 50,000 individuals .
सोशल बर्ताव सीमाएँ इससे precarious toleration , as in the विधवा मकड़ियों  , to co-operative hunting and food-sharing .
Although most spiders live  लिये at सबसे दो सालो , tarantulas और अन्य mygalomorph मकड़ियों can सजीव  up to 25 years in captivity .
जबकि the venom of a few प्रजाति is खतरनाक to इंसानो , वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी researching the उपयोग  of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides .
Spider silk provides a  संयोजन of lightness , शक्ति और लोच कि is श्रेष्ठ to कि of सिंथेटिक सामग्री , और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have महरूम  inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories .
As a result of their wide range of behaviors , spiders have become common symbols in art and  mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of सब्र , क्रूरता और रचनात्मक शक्तियां  .
Grey 's Anatomy is an  अमरीकी टेलीविज़न चिकित्सा नाटक कि premiered on the अमरीकी प्रसारण कम्पनी ( एबीसी ) ,  as a mid-season replacement on March 27 , 2005 .
The series has aired nine seasons , and focuses on the fictional  जीवनदान of सर्जिकल interns और निवासियों as वे धीरे evolve into seasoned डॉक्टर , जबकि trying to maintain निजी  lives .
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes , who serves as an executive  निर्माता , साथ साथ बेट्सी beers , चिह्नित गॉर्डन , क्रिस्टा vernoff , रोब मकई ,  Mark Wilding , and Allan Heinberg .
The  श्रेणी थी निर्मित to be racially विविध ,  utilizing a color-blind casting technique .
It is primarily filmed  in लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
The series ' protagonist is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo )  , जो originally is स्वीकृत into the रेसिडेंसी कार्यक्रम at the fictional सिएटल  Grace Hospital .
Meredith is assigned to work under Dr. Miranda Bailey (  चन्द्रा विल्सन ) , साथ साथ dr. क्रिस्टीना यांग ( सैंड्रा oh ) , dr. जार्ज o'malley ( T. R.  Knight ) , Dr. Izzie Stevens ( Katherine Heigl ) , and Dr. Alex Karev ( Justin Chambers ) .
Following O'Malley 's death and  स्टीवंस ' प्रस्थान , the हॉस्पिटल 's विलय साथ रहमत वेस्ट brings in dr. जैक्सन एवेरी ( जेसी विलियम्स  ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ) , in the sixth season .
The  सर्जिकल wing is primarily पर्यवेक्षित by dr. रिचर्ड webber ( जेम्स pickens , jr. ) , जो  is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ) , and later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ) .
Dr. Preston  बुर्के ( यशायाह वॉशिंगटन ) प्रस्थान at the निष्कर्ष of the तीसरा ऋतु , और is replaced by dr. एरिका hahn ( ब्रुक स्मिथ ) , जो पत्ते the दिखाएँ दौरान  the fifth season , and later Dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ) , who departs at the end of the eighth season .
Introduced in the second  ऋतु is dr. एडीसन मोंटगोमरी ( केट वाल्श ) , जो पत्ते the दिखाएँ at the समाप्त of the तीसरा ऋतु , in अनुक्रम to लॉन्च उसके अपना spin-off  medical drama Private Practice .
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan (  eric डेन ) भी डालें the दिखाएँ in the दूसरी ऋतु , जबकि the latter मरता in the प्रीमियर  of the ninth season .
Meredith 's half-sister  , dr. lexie धूसर ( chyler leigh ) , appears इससे ऋतु तीन  and dies at the end of season eight .
Dr. Arizona Robbins ( Jessica  capshaw ) is दिए श्रेणी नियमित औकात at the शुरूआत  of the sixth season .
Grey 's Anatomy is the  highest-rated नाटक in the कुंजी 18–49 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Previously among the  overall top-ten रेटेड shows in the संयुक्त राज्य , धूसर 's anatomy रै महरूम खूब प्राप्त  by critics .
Considered an  प्रभाव on संस्कृति , the श्रेणी रै प्राप्त numerous पुरस्कार , और  has also been included in various critics ' top ten lists .
The  दिखाएँ रै उत्पादित अनेक specials , as खूब as वितरित सब सीज़न to dvd , और released a संग्रहण of  merchandise .
In 2012 , Grey 's Anatomy was named  the fifth-highest आय कमाई दिखाएँ , in शर्तें  of advertising per half-hour .
On May 11 , 2012 ,  the श्रेणी थी नवीनीकृत लिये a नवीं ऋतु , जिससे  premiered on September 27 , 2012 .
Schizophrenia ( or )  is a दिमागी विकार characterized by a विश्लेषण of विचार प्रक्रियाओं और by a deficit of  typical emotional responses .
Common symptoms include auditory  मति , paranoid or विचित्र delusions , or disorganized वाक और सोच , और it is accompanied  by significant social or occupational dysfunction .
The  onset of लक्षण typically occurs in यंग adulthood , साथ  a global lifetime prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 % .
Diagnosis is based on  observed बर्ताव और the रोगी 's reported  experiences .
Genetics ,  जल्दी पर्यावरण , neurobiology , और मनोवैज्ञानिक और सोशल प्रक्रियाओं appear to be महत्वपूर्ण contributory कारकों  ; some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms .
Current research is focused on  the भूमिका of neurobiology , हालांकि no सिंगल पृथक  organic cause has been found .
The many possible combinations of symptoms have triggered debate  परिचय whether the निदान represents a सिंगल विकार or a क्रमांक of अलहदा  syndromes .
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek roots skhizein ( σχίζειν , `` to split '' ) and phrēn , phren- ( φρήν , φρεν- ; `` mind '' ) , schizophrenia  करता नहीं imply a `` विभाजित व्यक्तित्व '' , or `` अनेक व्यक्तित्व विकार '' ( जिससे is ज्ञात ये दिनों as dissociative पहचान विकार ) —a कंडीशन साथ जिससे it is प्रायः उलझन  in public perception .
बल्कि , the पद अर्थात् a `` splitting of दिमागी कृत्यों  '' , because of the symptomatic presentation of the illness .
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic medication ,  जिससे primarily दबा dopamine ( और sometimes serotonin ) receptor  activity .
Psychotherapy and  वोकेशनल और सोशल पुनर्वास हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण in  treatment .
In more serious cases—where there is risk to self and others— involuntary  hospitalization may be जरुरी , हालांकि हॉस्पिटल stays हैं अभी shorter और कम बारंबार  than they once were .
The disorder is  विचार मुख्यतः to affect संज्ञान , लकिन it भी प्रायः contributes  to chronic problems with behavior and emotion .
People with schizophrenia are likely to have additional ( comorbid ) conditions ,  सहित प्रमुख अवसाद और चिंता विकार ; the आजीवन occurrence of पदार्थ  use disorder is almost 50 % .
Social  समस्याएं , ऐसे as long-term बेरोजगारी , गरीबी , और  homelessness are common .
The average life expectancy of people with the  विकार is 12 to 15 सालो कम than those बगैर , the परिणाम of increased  physical health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ) .
Paul Leslie Snider ( April 15 ,  1951–august 14 , 1980 ) थी the estranged husband और मैनेजर of प्लेबॉय मॉडल डोरोथी stratten , जिसको he murdered  before killing himself the same day .
The Epic  of gilgamesh , an एपिक कविता इससे मेसोपोटामिया  , is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature .
the साहित्यिक इतिहास of gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र  Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ) , king of Uruk .
Four  of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त as सोर्स सामग्री  for a combined epic in Akkadian .
This first combined epic , known as the `` Old  babylonian '' संस्करण , तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is titled बाद इसके incipit , shūtur एली sharrī ( `` surpassing  All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a  few fragments of it have  survived .
The later ``  मानक babylonian '' संस्करण तिथियाँ इससे the 13th to the 10th सदियां bc और bears  the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of approximately  दो तिहाई of इस longer , twelve-tablet संस्करण  have been recovered .
Some of the best  नक़ल यहूद खोजा in the पुस्तकालयों तबाह of the 7th-century  BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers on a  दोस्ती between gilgamesh और  Enkidu .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the  देवताओं as gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract उसे इससे oppressing the लोगों  of Uruk .
साथ , वे यात्रा to the देवदार पहाड़ to शिकस्त humbaba  , its monstrous guardian .
Later they kill the Bull  of स्वर्ग , जिससे the देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा gilgamesh  for spurning her advances .
As a punishment  लिये ये क्रियाएँ , the देवताओं वाक्य enkidu  to death .
The  दूसरी हाफ of the एपिक focuses on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at enkidu 's मौत , और  his quest for immortality .
In order to learn  the रहस्य of अनन्त जीवन , gilgamesh undertakes a long  and perilous journey .
he learns कि `` the जीवन कि तुम हैं  seeking you will never find .
When the gods created  man वे आवंटित to उसे मौत , लकिन जीवन वे  retained in their own keeping . ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old  babylonian संस्करण of the एपिक , और तब attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the अक्कादी  version of the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death , because of  उसके ग्रेट भवन प्रोजेक्ट , और उसके खाता of कया utnapishtim बताई उसे happened  during the flood .
The story has been translated into many  अलग भाषाएं , और gilgamesh रै चूंकि become adapted in works  of popular fiction .
A  सुकेन्द्रिक ( or ) is an सजीव जिनकी कोशिकाएं contain जटिल structures  enclosed within membranes .
eukaryotes may अधिक formally be referred to as the  taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota .
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells is the  केंद्रक , or नाभिकीय लिफाफा , भीतर जिससे the जेनेटिक सामग्री is carried  .
The presence of a nucleus gives  eukaryotes उनके नाम , जिससे आता इससे the यूनानी ( eu , `` शुभ '' ) और  ( karyon , `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ) .
Most eukaryotic cells also  contain अन्य membrane-bound organelles ऐसे as mitochondria  , chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus .
सब विशाल जटिल जीवों हैं eukaryotes , सहित  animals , plants and fungi .
The group  भी शामिल अनेक एककोशिकीय  organisms .
Cell division in eukaryotes is  अलग इससे कि in जीवों बगैर a केंद्रक  ( Prokaryote ) .
It involves separating the  duplicated गुणसूत्रों , through आंदोलनों निर्देशित by microtubules  .
There are two  प्रकार of प्रभाग प्रक्रियाओं .
In mitosis , one cell  divides to उपज दो genetically  identical cells .
In meiosis , which is required in sexual reproduction , one diploid cell ( having two  उदाहरण of प्रत्येक chromosome , एक इससे प्रत्येक जनक ) undergoes recombination of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of parental गुणसूत्रों , और तब दो चरण of कोशिका प्रभाग , resulting  in four haploid cells ( gametes ) .
Each gamete has just one complement of chromosomes ,  प्रत्येक a अद्वितीय मिक्सर of the सम्बन्धित जोड़ी of parental गुणसूत्रों  .
eukaryota appears to be monophyletic , और so  makes up one of the three domains of life .
The two other domains , Bacteria and  आर्किया , हैं prokaryotes और have none of the ऊपर सुविधाएँ  .
eukaryotes represent a छोटा अल्पसंख्यक of सब जीना बाते ; भी in a इंसान देह वहीँ  are 10 times more microbes than human cells .
However , due to their  much larger आकार उनके सामूहिक विश्वव्यापी बायोमास  is estimated at about equal to that of prokaryotes .
They  हैं माना to have पहला विकसित  approximately 1.6–2.1 billion years ago .
The use of Internet  सेवाएं or तन्त्र साथ अंतरजाल अभिगम to defraud पीड़ितों or to वरना लो लाभ of उन्हें , लिये उदाहरण by चोरी निजी सूचना  , which can even lead to identity theft .
A very common form of Internet fraud is  the वितरण of दुष्ट सुरक्षा  software .
Internet services can be used to present  बेईमान solicitations to prospective पीड़ितों , to conduct बेईमान ट्रांजेक्शन , or to संचारण  the proceeds of fraud to financial institutions or to others connected with the scheme .
Internet fraud can occur in chat  कक्ष , ईमेल , संदेश फलक ,  or on websites .
The International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led  सुरक्षा मिशन in अफगानिस्तान कि थी स्थापित by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद in दिसम्बर 2001 by रेज़ोल्यूशन 1386 , as envisaged by  the Bonn Agreement .
Its main purpose is to train the Afghan National Security Forces ( ANSF ) and assist Afghanistan  in पुनर्निर्माण कुंजी सरकारी संस्थानों लकिन is भी सगाई in the 2001-present युद्ध साथ बागी समूह  .
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul and surrounding  क्षेत्रों इससे the तालिबान , al qaeda और factional warlords , so  as to allow for the establishment of the Afghan Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai .
In October 2003 , the UN Security Council authorized the expansion  of the isaf मिशन throughout अफगानिस्तान , और isaf subsequently विस्तारित the मिशन in चार प्रमुख चरण over the  whole of the country .
From 2006 to 2011 ,  isaf था महरूम शामिल in increasingly अधिक intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन in दक्षिणी  and eastern Afghanistan .
Troop contributors include from  the संयुक्त राज्य , संयुक्त किंगडम , नाटो सदस्य राज्य  and a number of other countries .
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly , with the  संयुक्त राज्य , संयुक्त किंगडम , और कनाडा sustaining the बहुमत of हताहत in intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन  , with other contributors sustaining significantly less .
As of early 2010 , there were at least 700 military  bases अंदर अफगानिस्तान लकिन अधिक यहूद अपेक्षित to be निर्मित in the coming सालो  .
About  400 of ये यहूद प्रयुक्त by american‐led नाटो शक्तियां  and 300 by ANSF .
कोका ( benzoylmethylecgonine ) ( इन ) is a crystalline  tropane alkaloid that is obtained from the leaves of the coca plant .
The  नाम आता इससे `` कोका '' और the एल्कलॉएड  suffix -ine , forming cocaine .
It is a  उत्तेजक , an भूख suppressant , और a topical  anesthetic .
Biologically , cocaine acts as a  serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor , भी ज्ञात as a ट्रिपल reuptake  inhibitor ( TRI ) .
It is  addictive क्युकी of इसके प्रभाव on  the mesolimbic reward pathway .
Unlike most  अणुओं , कोका रै pockets साथ दोनो ऊँची hydrophilic और lipophilic दक्षता ,  violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance .
This causes it to  क्रॉस the blood–brain अवरोध दूर बेहतर than अन्य psychoactive रसायन और may भी induce blood-brain  barrier breakdown .
It is illegal to possess , produce ,  or वितरित कोका लिये non-medicinal और non-government-sanctioned उद्देश्य in लगभग प्रत्येक  country .
Whole  बीफ tri-tip rump , roasted  medium rare
the tri-tip is a काटें of बीफ इससे the नीचे  sirloin primal cut .
It is a small triangular  मांसपेशी , प्रायः 1.5 to 2.5 पाउंड . ( 675  to 1,150g ) per side of beef .
The scientific name of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae , inserted in the fascia lata , the connective tissue covering  the quadriceps femoris , भी पुकारा quadriceps extensor , a समूह of चार मांसपेशियां जिससे in फेरे प्रविष्ट  in the patella , or knee cap of the animal .
Willmar is a city in , and  the काउंटी सीट of , kandiyohi काउंटी , मिनेसोटा ,  United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 19,610 at the 2010  census .
willmar रै महरूम आबंटित zip कोड 56201  by the United States Postal Service .
U.S .  रूट 12 और 71 और मिनेसोटा राज्य राजमार्गों 23 और 40 हैं  four of the main routes in the city .
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives ( or  स्पीकर of the हाउस ) is the पीठासीन अधिकारी of the कक्ष  .
The office was established in 1789 by Article I , Section 2 of  the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , जिससे राज्य in भाग , `` the हाउस of  Representatives shall chuse their Speaker ... ''
The current Speaker is John Boehner , a  रिपब्लिकन जो represents ओहियो 's 8th  congressional district .
The Constitution does not require that the  स्पीकर be a सदस्य of कॉंग्रेस , लकिन no non-member रै कभी महरूम निर्वाचित to  the office .
The Speaker is second in the United States presidential line  of उत्तराधिकार , बाद the वाइस अध्यक्ष और ahead of the अध्यक्ष प्रो tempore  of the U.S. Senate .
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments , in which the office of  स्पीकर is माना non-partisan , in the संयुक्त राज्य the स्पीकर of the हाउस is a नेतृत्व स्थिति और the office-holder actively works to  set the majority party 's legislative agenda .
The Speaker  प्रायः करता नहीं personally preside over debates , बजाय delegating  the duty to members of the House from the majority party .
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party , the  स्पीकर भी performs प्रशासनिक और प्रक्रियात्मक कृत्यों , और represents उसके or उसके congressional ज़िला  .
A bicycle frame is the main  घटक of a सायकिल , on to जिससे पहियों  and other components are fitted .
The modern and most common frame  डिज़ाइन लिये an कतरा सायकिल is आधारित on the सुरक्षा सायकिल , और consists of दो त्रिकोण  , a main triangle and a paired rear triangle .
इस is ज्ञात as the डायमंड  frame .
Frames are  जरूरी to be दमदार , stiff और लाइट , जिससे वे  do by combining different materials and shapes .
`` Simple gravity pendulum ''  मॉडल assumes no घर्षण or एयर प्रतिरोध  .
An  exemplar एनिमेशन of a लोलक प्रर्दशित the  velocity and acceleration vectors
A pendulum is a  वज़न निलंबित इससे a so कि it can झूले freely  .
When a pendulum is  विस्थापित बगलों इससे इसके resting संतुलन स्थिति , it is विषय to a restoring फ़ोर्स due to गम्भीरता कि होगा accelerate it वापस  toward the equilibrium position .
When released , the restoring force combined  साथ the लोलक 's द्रव्यमान कल्याणकारी it to oscillate परिचय the संतुलन स्थिति , सुहाने वापस  and forth .
The  समय लिये एक पूरा साईकिल , a बाएँ झूले और  a right swing , is called the period .
A pendulum swings with a  विशिष्ट काल जिससे depends (  mainly ) on its length .
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo  गैलिली the नियमित गति of pendulums थी प्रयुक्त लिये timekeeping , और थी the संसार 's सबसे सटीक timekeeping  technology until the 1930s .
Pendulums are used to regulate pendulum  घड़ियाँ , और हैं प्रयुक्त in वैज्ञानिक यंत्र ऐसे as accelerometers  and seismometers .
historically वे यहूद प्रयुक्त as gravimeters to माप the त्वरण of गम्भीरता in geophysical  surveys , and even as a standard of length .
The  शब्द 'pendulum ' is नई लैटिन , इससे the लैटिन  pendulus , meaning 'hanging ' .
The simple gravity  लोलक is an idealized गणितीय मॉडल of a लोलक  .
This is  a वज़न ( or bob ) on the समाप्त  of a massless cord suspended from a , without friction .
When given an  आरंभिक धक्का , it होगा झूले वापस और forth at  a constant amplitude .
Real pendulums are subject to  घर्षण और एयर खीचें , so the आयाम of उनके swings गिरावट  .
The First  बैटल of सांड चलाएं , भी ज्ञात as पहला manassas ( the नाम प्रयुक्त by confederate शक्तियां ) , थी लड़ा on जुलाई 21 , 1861  , in Prince William County , Virginia , near the city of Manassas .
It was the  पहला प्रमुख जमीन बैटल of the अमरीकी  Civil War .
Just months  बाद the प्रारंभ of the युद्ध at फोर्ट sumter , the उत्तरी पब्लिक clamored लिये a कूच विरूद्ध the confederate  capital of Richmond , Virginia , which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion .
Yielding to political pressure ,  ब्रिगेडियर . gen. irvin mcdowell led उसके unseasoned संघ फौज आरपार सांड चलाएं विरूद्ध the बराबर अनुभवहीन  Confederate Army of Brig . Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction .
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank  आक्रमण on the confederate बाएँ थी poorly चलाया by उसके अधिकारियों और मेन ; nevertheless , the confederates , जो था महरूम नियोजन  to attack the Union left flank , found themselves at an initial disadvantage .
Confederate reinforcements under Brig . Gen. Joseph E. Johnston  arrived इससे the shenandoah घाटी by रेलरोड और the कोर्स of the बैटल जल्दी  changed .
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel from the  वर्जिनिया सैन्य संस्थान , थामस J. जैक्सन , stood उनके  ground and Jackson received his famous nickname , `` Stonewall Jackson '' .
The Confederates then  शुभारम्भ a दमदार counterattack , और as the संघ सैनिकों began withdrawing अंतर्गत आग , अनेक panicked और it turned into a rout as mcdowell 's मेन frantically भागा बगैर  order in the direction of Washington , D.C .
Both armies were sobered by the  fierce लड़ और अनेक हताहत , और एहसास the युद्ध थी going to be much longer  and bloodier than either had anticipated .
Thunderstorm  निकट garajau , madeira
Weather is the state  of the माहौल , to the उपाधि कि it is hot or ठंडा  , wet or dry , calm or stormy , clear or cloudy .
Most weather  phenomena occur in the क्षोभमण्डल , बस नीचे the stratosphere  .
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and precipitation  कार्यकलाप , whereas जलवायु is the पद लिये the औसत वायुमंडलीय  conditions over longer periods of time .
When used without  योग्यता , `` मौसम '' is समझा to be the मौसम  of Earth .
Weather is  चलित by एयर दबाव ( तापमान और नमी ) मतभेद between  one place and another .
These pressure and  तापमान मतभेद can occur due to the सूर्य कोण at कोई  particular spot , which varies by latitude from the tropics .
The strong  तापमान कंट्रास्ट between ध्रुवीय और तीव्र एयर देता  rise to the jet stream .
Weather  प्रणालियों in the mid-latitudes , ऐसे as extratropical cyclones , हैं  caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow .
Because the  धरती 's अक्ष is tilted सापेक्ष to इसके कक्षीय प्लेन , धूप is घटना  at different angles at different times of the year .
On  धरती 's सतह , temperatures प्रायः दायरा ±40  °C ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually .
Over thousands of years , changes in Earth 's orbit affect the amount and  वितरण of सौर उर्जा प्राप्त by the धरती और influence long-term  climate and global climate change .
Surface temperature  मतभेद in फेरे कारण दबाव मतभेद  .
Higher altitudes are cooler than  निम्नतर altitudes due to मतभेद in compressional  heating .
Weather forecasting is the application of science and technology to  भविष्यवाणी the राज्य of the माहौल लिये a भविष्य समय और a दिए स्थान  .
The atmosphere  is a chaotic प्रणाली , so छोटी परिवर्तन to एक भाग of the प्रणाली can grow to  have large effects on the system as a whole .
Human attempts to  कंट्रोल the मौसम have occurred throughout इंसान इतिहास , और वहीँ is प्रमाण कि इंसान कार्यकलाप ऐसे  as agriculture and industry has inadvertently modified weather patterns .
Studying how the weather works on  अन्य ग्रह रै महरूम सहायक in समझना कैसा मौसम works on  Earth .
A famous landmark  in the सौर प्रणाली , बृहस्पति 's ग्रेट रेड स्पॉट , is an anticyclonic तूफ़ान  known to have existed for at least 300 years .
however , मौसम is नहीं सीमित to  planetary bodies .
A star 's corona is constantly being lost to space  , बनाना कया is essentially a बहुत पतला माहौल throughout  the Solar System .
The  गति of द्रव्यमान ejected इससे the सूर्य is ज्ञात  as the solar wind .
Katy  पेरी is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter इससे सांता  Barbara , California .
वो हस्ताक्षरित साथ कैपिटल  Records .
Perry has released three  स्टुडियो एल्बम , सहित उसके डेब्यू ईसाई प्रयत्न कैटी हडसन , एक  of the Boys , and Teenage Dream .
Perry 's  मुख्यधारा करियर थी kicked बंद साथ the विशाल चार्ट कामयाबी  of her debut single `` I Kissed a Girl `` .
During her career ,  पेरी रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये numerous प्रमुख म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , primarily लिये teenage सपना  and One of the Boys .
The following is a list of sovereign states and territories where English is an  आधिकारिक भाषा or भाषा of सरकारी  .
In 2012 , there were 88 states in total (  60 sovereign राज्य और 28 non-sovereign  states ) .
In many countries English  is the प्रबल भाषा , लकिन करता नहीं have आधिकारिक  status .
In Australia , English is  बोला by the विशाल बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी और is the तभी भाषा प्रयुक्त in सरकारी  institutions , but Australia does not have an official language .
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the  संयुक्त राज्य , हालांकि अनेक राज्य और regions भीतर the u.S. do have  English as an official language .
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an  आधिकारिक भाषा of कनाडा ( साथ साथ फ्रेंच ) , इण्डिया ( साथ साथ हिंदी और अनेक अन्य भाषाएं ) , आयरलैंड ( साथ  with Irish ) , and the Philippines ( along with Tagalog ) .
English is the sole official language of the  राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र और the राष्ट्रमंडल खेल  .
अंग्रेज़ी is एक of the आधिकारिक भाषाएं of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , the यूरोपीय  Union and the International Olympic Committee .
Many of  ये देशों हैं वर्तमान or पूर्व colonies or dependencies of the संयुक्त किंगडम ( देखिए भी अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य  ) , or of the United States , itself a former colony of the UK .
Notable exceptions include  रवांडा , जिससे थी a पूर्व belgian उपनिवेश और इरित्रिया , जिससे थी an इतालवी उपनिवेश जहाँ the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य spanned  its control only in World War II and shortly after ( 1941-1952 ) .
India 's  भाषाई चित्र is जटिल  .
According to the Constitution of India , `` Hindi in the Devanagari script '' is the official language of the union ; and  अंग्रेज़ी the 'subsidiary आधिकारिक भाषा ' ; however , अंग्रेज़ी is mandated लिये the authoritative ग्रन्थ of सब संघीय कानून और परम् अदालत निर्णय और ( साथ साथ हिंदी ) is एक of the दो भाषाएं of the भारतीय  Parliament .
English is used  लगभग exclusively लिये उच्चतर शिक्षा , कारोबार और  science .
Courses in majority of the  स्कूलों हैं सिखाया exclusively  in English .
English  is extensively प्रयुक्त लिये प्रशासनिक  purposes in India .
इण्डिया is the second-largest english-speaking देश in the संसार by क्रमांक of अध्यक्षों , बाद the  United States .
As such , many  consider अंग्रेज़ी to be the de facto  official language of India .
See  आधिकारिक भाषाएं  of India .
The  भाषाई मेकअप of पाकिस्तानी is similarly जटिल  .
While the national language is  उर्दू , अंग्रेज़ी is an आधिकारिक भाषा और प्रयुक्त in कारोबार  , government and law .
English is a  अनिवार्य भाषा in स्कूलों  .
All school  पाठ्यक्रम हैं सिखाया in  English .
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking  देश in the संसार by जनसांख्यिकी  .
दक्षिणी कोन ( , ) is a भौगोलिक प्रदेश रचित of the  southernmost areas of South America , south of the Tropic of Capricorn .
Although geographically  इस शामिल दक्षिणी और भाग of southeast ( são पाउलो ) of ब्राज़ील , in शर्तें of  political geography the Southern cone has traditionally comprised Argentina , Chile , Paraguay , and Uruguay .
In the narrowest sense , it only covers Argentina , Chile and Uruguay , bounded on the north by the states of Brazil ,  पैराग्वे , बोलीविया और पेरू , on the वेस्ट by the प्रशांत समंदर , और दक्षिण to the जंक्शन between the प्रशांत और अटलांटिक  Oceans , which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ) .
High life expectancy , the highest Human Development Index of Latin America , high  मानक of जीना , significant भागीदारी in the वैश्विक बाज़ार और the उभरते अर्थव्यवस्था of इसके सदस्यों मेक the दक्षिणी कोन the सबसे prosperous macro-region  in South America .
For multi-event athletic  प्रतियोगिताओं देखिए track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं  , section `` Meetings '' .
Meetings are  sometimes आयोजित  around conference tables .
In a meeting , two or  अधिक लोगों आइये साथ to discuss एक or अधिक विषय , प्रायः in a औपचारिक  setting .
An official game in baseball , also sometimes called  a विनियमन खेल , is a खेल कि रै progressed परे the पाइंट at जिससे it can be माना  complete if necessary .
This is  लगभग the halfway पाइंट of the खेल  .
In the case of  inclement मौसम , कोई खेल जिससे रै पहुँचे इस पाइंट may be रोका और shortened as needed , साथ the परिणाम होने फाइनल ,  and all records and statistics counted .
A game which has not reached this point before being stopped is either considered a  निलंबित खेल ( to be जारी at a बाद तिथि इससे the पाइंट of stoppage ) , or is बस रद्द और replayed इससे the प्रारंभ  .
( This depends on  the नियम of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत लीग  . )
In either case ,  no आंकडे हैं गिने जबतक the खेल becomes  official .
Since most professional  बेसबॉल खेल हैं नौ पारी long , the पांचवां inning is प्रयुक्त as the दहलीज  for an official game .
If the visiting team is leading , or the game  is tied , the समाप्त of the पांचवां inning marks इस  point .
If the home team ( which bats last )  is already ahead in the स्कोर , और theoretically होता नहीं need इसके हाफ of the पांचवां inning , तब 41⁄2 पारी ( i.e. , the  middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game .
The game is also considered official if  the घर टोली स्कोर to लो the सीसे in the नीचे of the पांचवां inning , चूंकि the खेल होता समाप्त तत्काल if the वही बात happened in  the ninth .
In nearly all cases , the `` official game ''  औकात is प्रयुक्त to determine whether a बरसात जाँच होगा be सम्मानित लिये प्रशंसक पकड़कर  tickets .
If a game is started but does  नहीं पहुँचें the पाइंट of बनने आधिकारिक , प्रशंसक हैं हकदार to a नई टिकट लिये the make-up खेल or ( in सबसे मामले  ) any other available game of their choice .
If a game is halted  बाद it becomes आधिकारिक , the खेल is बस shortened और no बरसात जाँच is दिए  .
The ``  आधिकारिक खेल '' statistic प्राप्त कुछ ध्यान दौरान the 1995 ऋतु , जब कैलोरी ripken , jr.  was approaching the record for consecutive games played , previously held by Lou Gehrig .
Large  संख्याएँ यहूद लटका on the पक्ष of the b & o गोदाम at oriole पार्क at camden  Yards to show the number of games in Ripken 's streak .
Each day , a new number was  unfurled दौरान the पांचवां inning बाद प्रत्येक खेल था become आधिकारिक  ( since the statistic would not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ) .
A similar practice has been used to count down toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including  दिग्गजों स्टेडियम in फिलाडेल्फिया in 2003 , बुच मेमोरियल स्टेडियम in st. लुई in 2005 , और the असली यांकी स्टेडियम और shea स्टेडियम in नई यॉर्क नगर in 2008 ) ; as प्रत्येक खेल became आधिकारिक , the  team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played in the stadium .
A telephone  क्रमांक or फोन क्रमांक is a अनुक्रम of अंक प्रयुक्त to कॉल इससे एक टेलीफोन लकीर to another  in a public switched telephone network .
जब टेलीफोन संख्याएँ यहूद invented , वे यहूद छोटी — as few as एक , दो or तीन अंक  — and were given orally to a switchboard operator .
As  फोन प्रणालियों have grown और interconnected  to encompass the world , telephone numbers have become longer .
In addition to telephones , they now access  अन्य डिवाइस , ऐसे as कंप्यूटर और फैक्स मशीने  .
The number contains the  सूचना जरुरी to पहचानो uniquely the intended  endpoint for the telephone call .
Each such  endpoint जरूर have a अद्वितीय क्रमांक भीतर the पब्लिक switched टेलीफोन  network .
Most countries use fixed length  संख्याएँ ( लिये सामान्य लाइनों at तनिक ) और इसलिए the क्रमांक of endpoints  determines the necessary length of the telephone number .
It is also possible for each subscriber to have a set of  shorter संख्याएँ लिये the endpoints सबसे प्रायः  used .
These `` shorthand '' or  `` गति कॉलिंग '' संख्याएँ हैं automatically अनूदित to अद्वितीय टेलीफोन संख्याएँ पहले the  call can be connected .
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g. , 1-1-9 , 9-1-1 , 0-0-0 ,  9-9-9 , 1-1-1 , और 1-1-2 होने the आपात सेवाएं संख्याएँ लिये चीन , जापानी , दक्षिण कोरियाई , ताईवान और श्री लंका ; कनाडा और the संयुक्त राज्य ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; the संयुक्त किंगडम , आयरलैंड , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , कैंडल , सऊदी अरब , the संयुक्त अरब अमीरात , मोरक्को , मकाओ , बहरीन , क़तर , बांग्लादेश , बोत्सवाना , घाना , कीनिया , हांग काँग , मलेशिया , मॉरीशस , सिंगापुर  , Zimbabwe , Trinidad , Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union , respectively . )
Many systems also allow calls within  a लोकल क्षेत्रफल to be बना बगैर डायलिंग the  local area code .
For example  , a फोन क्रमांक in उत्तर अमेरिका होगा प्रारंभ साथ तीन संख्याएँ ( ऐसे as 661 ) , जिससे is the  area code , followed by seven digits split into sections of three and four ( such as 550-1212 ) , which is the local number .
Some  क्षेत्रों अभी have अनिवार्य ten-digit डायलिंग  in place , even for local calls .
Most telephone networks today ( exceptions being private intercom and  सुरक्षित फोन संजाल ) हैं interconnected in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय टेलीफोन संजाल , जहाँ the स्वरूप of टेलीफोन संख्याएँ is मानकीकृत by itu-t in the अनुशंसा  E.164 .
This specifies that the entire number should be 15 digits or  shorter , और शुरू साथ a देश उपसर्ग  .
For most countries  , इस is followed by an क्षेत्रफल कोड or नगर कोड और the सदस्य क्रमांक , जिससे  might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange .
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to represent an international telephone number in  लिखने or छपाई , starting साथ a प्लस चिह्न ( `` + '' ) और the देश  code .
जब कॉलिंग an अंतरराष्ट्रीय क्रमांक इससे a फिक्स्ड लकीर फोन , the + जरूर be replaced  with the international call prefix chosen by the country the call is being made from .
Some mobile  फोन allow the + to be डाला  directly .
the स्वरूप और आवंटन of लोकल फोन संख्याएँ हैं नियंत्रित by प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's संबंधित सरकारी , either सीधे or by  sponsored organizations ( such as NANPA overseen by NeuStar Inc. ) .
पहले a टेलीफोन कॉल is कनेक्ट , the टेलीफोन क्रमांक जरूर  be dialed by the calling party or Caller .
The called party might have equipment that  presents कॉलर id पहले the  call is answered .
A  संग्रहण एजेंसी is a कारोबार कि pursues भुगतान of debts owed  by individuals or businesses .
Most  संग्रहण एजेंसियों operate as एजेंटों of लेनदारों और collect  debts for a fee or percentage of the total amount owed .
There are many  प्रकार of संग्रहण  agencies .
First-party agencies are  oftentimes subsidiaries of the असली कम्पनी the कर्ज़  is owed to .
third-party एजेंसियों हैं पृथक कंपनियाँ contracted by a कम्पनी to collect debts  on their behalf for a fee .
Debt  खरीदार खरीदें the कर्ज़ at a प्रतिशत  of its value , then attempt to collect it .
Each  देश रै इसके अपना नियम और regulations  regarding them .
कैनबिस पुष्प साथ दृश्य  trichomes
Cannabis , also known as marijuana ( from  the मैक्सिकन स्पेनी marihuana ) , और by अन्य names , is a तैयारी of the कैनबिस  plant intended for use as a psychoactive drug and as medicine .
Pharmacologically , the principal  psychoactive constituent of कैनबिस is tetrahydrocannabinol ( thc ) ; it is एक of 483 ज्ञात यौगिकों in the संयंत्र  , including at least 84 other cannabinoids , such as cannabidiol ( CBD ) , cannabinol ( CBN ) , tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ) .
and  cannabigerol ( cbg  ) .
This is a list of American football quarterbacks who have started for the Washington Redskins , as  खूब as इसके पूर्ववर्तियों the बोस्टन braves ( 1932 ) और बोस्टन redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ) , in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल )  .
The Washington Redskins franchise was originally founded in Boston ,  मैसाचुसेट्स as the बोस्टन braves , नामित बाद the लोकल बेसबॉल मताधिकार .
The name was changed  the following साल to the redskins  .
In  1937 , the मताधिकार स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Of  the 49 redskins starting quarterbacks , दो have महरूम inducted into the प्रो फ़ुटबॉल हॉल  of Fame : Sammy Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen .
Robert  griffin iii 2012-present
जेसन कैम्पबेल  2005-2009
Mark  burnell 2004-2007
Mark  rypien 1986-1993
जो theismann  1974-1985
सैमी baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces  operational detachment-delta ( 1st sfod-d ) , popularly ज्ञात as डेल्टा फ़ोर्स , is एक of the संयुक्त राज्य  ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units .
It was formerly listed as the  कॉम्बैट अनुप्रयोग समूह by the विभाग of रक्षा लकिन रै चूंकि महरूम officially re-designated the  Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ) .
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively  समर्थित by usasoc , it जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the operational कंट्रोल of the संयुक्त खास परिचालन  Command .
Delta Force and its Navy counterpart , the Naval  खास warfare विकास समूह , हैं the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य 's प्राथमिक  counter-terrorism units .
Delta Force 's  प्राथमिक कार्य हैं counter-terrorism , सीधा कार्रवाई , और नेशनल हस्तक्षेप परिचालन , हालांकि it is an अत्यधिक  versatile group capable of conducting many types of covert missions , including , but not limited to , hostage rescues and raids .
The Central Intelligence Agency 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more  specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन समूह ( sog ) प्रायः works साथ – और रंगरूटों – ऑपरेटर इससे  Delta Force .
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive  क्षय , in जिससे an परमाणु केंद्रक emits an अल्फा कण , और thereby परिणत ( or 'क्षयs ' ) into an अणु साथ  a mass number 4 less and atomic number 2 less .
अनेक अन्य प्रकार of decays हैं  possible .
Radioactive decay , also known  as नाभिकीय क्षय or radioactivity , is the प्रक्रम by जिससे a केंद्रक of an अस्थिर अणु loses उर्जा  by emitting particles of ionizing radiation .
A material that spontaneously emits this  दयालु of विकिरण — जिससे शामिल the उत्सर्जन of ऊर्जावान अल्फा अणु , बीटा अणु ,  and gamma rays — is considered radioactive .
There  हैं अनेक अलग प्रकार of रेडियोसक्रिय  decay ( see table below ) .
A  क्षय , or घाटा of उर्जा , परिणाम जब an अणु साथ एक प्रकार of केंद्रक , पुकारा the जनक radionuclide , परिणत to an अणु साथ  a nucleus in a different state , or to a different nucleus containing different numbers of protons and neutrons .
either of ये उत्पाद is नामित the  daughter nuclide .
In some decays the parent and daughter are different chemical elements ,  और यूँ the क्षय प्रक्रम परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation ( सृष्टि of an अणु of a नई  element ) .
The first decay  प्रक्रियाओं to be खोजा यहूद अल्फा क्षय , बीटा क्षय  , and gamma decay .
Alpha decay occurs when the  केंद्रक ejects an अल्फा कण ( हीलियम केंद्रक )  .
This is the most  आम प्रक्रम of emitting nucleons , लकिन in rarer प्रकार of decays , nuclei can eject protons , or  specific nuclei of other elements ( in the process called cluster decay ) .
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an  इलेक्ट्रॉन or positron और a प्रकार of न्यूट्रिनो , in a प्रक्रम कि परिवर्तन a प्रोटॉन to a  neutron or the other way around .
The nucleus may capture  an orbiting इलेक्ट्रॉन , converting a प्रोटॉन into a न्यूट्रॉन ( इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर  ) .
All of these  प्रक्रियाओं परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation  .
by कंट्रास्ट , वहीँ मौजूद रेडियोसक्रिय  decay processes that do not result in transmutation .
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in gamma decay , or used to eject an  कक्षीय इलेक्ट्रॉन by बातचीत साथ the उत्साहित केंद्रक in a प्रक्रम पुकारा आतंरिक परिवर्तन  .
Radioisotopes  occasionally emit neutrons , और इस परिणाम in a बदलें in an तत्व इससे एक समस्थानिक to another  .
One type of  रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय परिणाम in उत्पाद जिससे हैं नहीं पारिभाषित  , but appear in a range of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus .
This  क्षय is पुकारा spontaneous परिवर्द्धन .
This decay happens when a large unstable nucleus spontaneously splits  into दो ( और occasionally तीन ) छोटी बेटी nuclei , और प्रायः emits गामा किरणें , neutrons , or अन्य अणु  as a consequence .
Radioactive decay is a stochastic ( i.e. , random ) process at the level  of सिंगल अणु , in कि , according to क्वांटम सिद्धान्त , it is नामुमकिन to भविष्यवाणी  when a particular atom will decay .
However , the  मौका कि a दिए अणु होगा क्षय  is constant over time .
For a large number of atoms ,  the क्षय रेट लिये the संग्रहण is computable इससे the measured क्षय स्थिरांक of the न्यूक्लाइड  ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ) .
Waxing is a form of  semi-permanent बाल हटाना जिससे removes the बाल इससे the  root .
New hair will not grow back in the  previously waxed क्षेत्रफल लिये दो to आठ सप्ताह , हालांकि कुछ लोगों होगा प्रारंभ to देखिए  regrowth in only a week .
Almost any area of the body can be waxed ,  सहित eyebrows , फेस , बिकिनी क्षेत्रफल , टाँगे , बाहें , वापस , उदर  and feet .
There are many types of waxing  उपयुक्त लिये निकालना अनावश्यक बाल  .
Strip waxing is  संपन्नता by spreading a मोम thinly over the  skin .
A cloth or paper  स्ट्रिप is तब दबाया on the शीर्ष और ripped बंद the  direction of hair growth .
This removes  the मोम साथ साथ the बाल  .
Strip wax can also be made at home  using नीबू रस , जल , शुगर और मधु  .
hot वैक्सिंग utilizes hot मोम  ( as opposed to strip wax ) .
In this  मामला , the मोम is लागू somewhat thickly और साथ no  cloth or paper strips .
The wax then hardens when it cools , thus allowing  the आसान हटाना by a चिकित्सक बगैर the सहायता of  cloths .
This  वैक्सिंग विधि is बहुत फायदेमंद  to people who have sensitive skin .
Wall  पेंटिंग ( 1st सदी ad ) इससे pompeii depicting  a multigenerational banquet
Ancient Roman  संस्कृति existed throughout the लगभग 1200-year इतिहास of the  civilization of Ancient Rome .
The term refers to the culture  of the रोमन गणतंत्र , बाद the रोमन साम्राज्य , जिससे , at इसके शिखर , covered an क्षेत्रफल इससे lowland स्कॉटलैंड  and Morocco to the Euphrates .
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome , its famed seven hills , and its monumental structures such as the Flavian  amphitheatre ( अभी पुकारा the कोलोसियम ) , the फ़ोरम of त्राजान , और the pantheon  .
the नगर भी था अनेक थिएटर , gymnasiums , और अनेक taverns  , baths , and brothels .
Throughout the territory  अंतर्गत प्राचीन रोम 's कंट्रोल , आवासीय वास्तुकला ranged इससे बहुत modest घरों to देश विला , और in the पूंजी नगर of रोम , वहीँ यहूद इम्पीरियल  residences on the elegant Palatine Hill , from which the word palace is derived .
The vast majority of the  जनसांख्यिकी जिया in the नगर बीच , packed into insulae ( अपार्टमेंट ब्लॉक  ) .
The city of Rome was the largest megalopolis of  कि समय , साथ a जनसांख्यिकी कि may खूब have exceeded एक लाख लोगों , साथ a ऊँची समाप्त  estimate of 3.6 million and a low end estimate of 450,000 .
Historical  estimates indicate कि around 30 प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the नगर 's क्षेत्राधिकार जिया in innumerable शहरी centers , साथ  population of at least 10,000 and several military settlements , a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards .
The most urbanized part of the Empire was Italy ,  जिससे था an अनुमानित रेट of शहरी of 32 % , the वही रेट of शहरी of इंग्लैण्ड  in 1800 .
सबसे रोमन कस्बों और शहरों था a फ़ोरम , मंदिरों और the वही प्रकार of  buildings , on a smaller scale , as found in Rome .
The large urban population required an endless  सप्लाई of खाना जिससे थी a जटिल logistical कार्य , सहित acquiring , transporting , storing और वितरण of खाना लिये रोम और अन्य  urban centers .
Italian farms  supplied सब्जियां और फल , लकिन मछली और मांस  were luxuries .
Aqueducts were  निर्मित to लाओ जल to शहरी centers और वाइन और आयल यहूद आयातित  from Hispania , Gaul and Africa .
There was a  बहुत विशाल राशि of कॉमर्स between the प्रांतों of the रोमन  Empire , since its transportation technology was very efficient .
The average costs of  हस्तांतरण और the प्रौद्योगिकी यहूद comparable  with 18th-century Europe .
The later city of Rome did not fill  the स्पेस भीतर इसके प्राचीन aurelian दीवारें जबतक बाद  1870 .
Eighty percent of the  जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of प्राचीन रोम जिया in the  countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants .
जमींदार generally resided in शहरों और उनके estates  were left in the care of farm managers .
The plight of  ग्रामीण स्लेव थी generally बदतर than  their counterparts working in urban aristocratic households .
To stimulate a higher labor productivity  सबसे जमींदार freed a विशाल क्रमांक of स्लेव और अनेक प्राप्त मजदूरी  .
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in one  छोटी फार्म हट in मिश्र , जबकि छह परिवारों स्वामित्व a सिंगल ज़ैतून पेड़ .  '' .
Such a  ग्रामीण पर्यावरण जारी to induce माइग्रेशन of जनसांख्यिकी to शहरी centers जबतक the जल्दी 2nd सदी , जब the शहरी जनसांख्यिकी  stopped growing and started to decline .
starting in the मध्य of the 2nd सदी bc , निजी यूनानी संस्कृति थी increasingly  in ascendancy , in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists .
By the time of Augustus , cultured Greek  household स्लेव सिखाया the रोमन यंग ( sometimes भी the लड़कियों ) ; शेफ़ , decorators , secretaries ,  doctors , and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East .
Greek sculptures adorned Hellenistic  लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the palatine or in the विला , or यहूद imitated in रोमन  sculpture yards by Greek slaves .
The Roman cuisine preserved  in the cookery किताबे ascribed to apicius is essentially  Greek .
Roman writers disdained Latin  लिये a संस्कारी यूनानी स्टाइल  .
तभी in विधि और शासन थी the तिरछा प्रकृति of रोम 's  accretive culture supreme .
Against this human background , both the urban and rural setting  , एक of इतिहास 's सबसे influential सभ्यताओं took आकार , leaving पीछे  a cultural legacy that survives in part today .
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf ,  jr. ( born अगस्त 20 , 1962 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर मनःस्थिति  .
Glass bottles ( for  खीरा स्लाइस ) on शिपिंग pallets
A  सोवियत मेयोनेज़  jar
A  आधुनिक `` फ्रेंच kilner  '' jar
Glass production involves two main methods – the float glass  प्रक्रम , जिससे produces चादर कांच , और glassblowing जिससे produces बोतलों और अन्य containers  .
A season is a subdivision of the year , marked  by परिवर्तन in मौसम , पारिस्थितिकी , और घंटों of daylight  .
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of  the धरती around the सूर्य और the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष सापेक्ष to the प्लेन of क्रान्ति  .
In temperate and polar regions , the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface ,  विसंगतियाँ of जिससे may कारण पशु to go into शीतनिष्क्रियता or to  migrate , and plants to be dormant .
During May , June and July  , the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is उजागर to अधिक सीधा  sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is true of  the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध in नवम्बर , दिसम्बर और जनवरी  .
It is the tilt of the Earth that  कल्याणकारी the सूर्य to be उच्चतर in the आसमान दौरान the गर्मियाँ महीने  which increases the solar flux .
However , due to seasonal lag , June , July and August are the  hottest महीने in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर , जनवरी और फ़रवरी हैं the hottest महीने in the दक्षिणी  hemisphere .
In temperate and  subpolar regions , generally चार पंचांग -आधारd सीज़न ( साथ उनके adjectives ) हैं पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal  ) , summer ( estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly  उपयोग a छह ऋतु मॉडल लिये शीतोष्ण जलवायु regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) और लेट गर्मियाँ ( serotinal ) as पृथक  seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the  बरसात ( or गीला , or मानसून ) ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु , और in कुछ तीव्र  areas , a cool or mild season .
In some parts of the world ,  खास `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम ऐसे as a hurricane ऋतु ,  tornado season or a wildfire season .
the छह ecological  seasons
The  चार पंचांग सीज़न , चित्रित in an प्राचीन  Roman mosaic from Tunisia
The Battle of Fort Sumter (  अप्रैल 12–14 , 1861 ) थी the बमबारी और आत्मसमर्पण of फोर्ट sumter ,  near Charleston , South Carolina , that started the American Civil War .
Following declarations of secession by seven Southern  राज्य , दक्षिण कैरोलिना मांगे कि the u.S. फौज लापरवाही इसके सुविधाएं in चार्ल्सटन  Harbor .
On December 26 , 1860 , U.S. Major Robert Anderson surreptitiously moved his  छोटी कमांड इससे the indefensible फोर्ट moultrie on सुलीवान 's द्वीप to फोर्ट sumter , a substantial किला controlling  the entrance of Charleston Harbor .
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson , using the unarmed merchant  जलयान स्टार of the वेस्ट , विफल जब it थी fired upon by shore बैटरी on जनवरी 9 ,  1861 .
South Carolina  अधिकारियों तब जब्त सब संघीय प्रॉपर्टी in the चार्ल्सटन  area , except for Fort Sumter .
During the  जल्दी महीने of 1861 , the हालात around फोर्ट  Sumter increasingly began to resemble a siege .
In March , Brig . Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard , the first general  अधिकारी of the newly formed confederate राज्य of अमेरिका , थी लगाई in कमांड of confederate  forces in Charleston .
Beauregard  energetically निर्देशित the strengthening of बैटरी around  Charleston harbor aimed at Fort Sumter .
Conditions in the fort  grew dire as the संघ सैनिको rushed to पूरा the संस्थापना of अतिरिक्त  guns .
Anderson  थी छोटी of मेन , खाना , और  supplies .
The  resupply of फोर्ट sumter became the पहला संकट  of the administration of President Abraham Lincoln .
He notified the Governor of South Carolina , Francis W.  pickens , कि he थी sending सप्लाई जहाजों , जिससे resulted in an ultimatum इससे the confederate सरकारी : evacuate  Fort Sumter immediately .
प्रमुख एंडरसन refused to आत्मसमर्पण  .
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on  अप्रैल 12 , the confederates bombarded the  fort from artillery batteries surrounding the harbor .
Although the Union  गैरीसन लौटे आग , वे यहूद significantly outgunned और , बाद 34  hours , Major Anderson agreed to evacuate .
There was no loss of life on either side  as a सीधा परिणाम of इस सगाई , हालांकि a गन विस्फोट  during the surrender ceremonies on April 14 caused two Union deaths .
Following the battle , there was widespread  support इससे दोनो उत्तर और दक्षिण लिये further सैन्य कार्रवाई  .
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000  स्वयंसेवक to दबाने the विद्रोह resulted in an अतिरिक्त चार दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य भी declaring  their secession and joining the Confederacy .
The Civil  युद्ध था begun  .
3G , short for third Generation , is  the तीसरा पीढी of मोबाईल दूरसंचार प्रौद्योगिकी  .
3G  दूरसंचार संजाल support सेवाएं कि provide an सूचना  transfer rate of at least 200 kbit/s .
however , अनेक सेवाएं advertised as 3g provide उच्चतर  speed than the minimum technical requirements for a 3G service .
Recent 3G releases , often  denoted 3.5g और 3.75g , भी provide मोबाईल ब्रॉडबैंड अभिगम of अनेक  Mbit/s to smartphones and mobile modems in laptop computers .
3G  पाता अनुप्रयोग in बेतार आवाज़ telephony , मोबाईल अंतरजाल अभिगम  , fixed wireless Internet access , video calls and mobile TV .
`` mazel tov ! '' लिखा on a  wine glass tag
traditionally , बाद the दूल्हे ब्रेक the कांच , the  guests shout `` Mazel Tov ! `` .
A birthday  केक , आइस्ड साथ the शब्द `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov )  , as is often done in Israel .
Here the phrase is  लिखा in यहूदी कर्सिव  .
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish : ``  מזל טוב '' , यहूदी : `` mazal tov '' ; यहूदी : `` mazel tov ''  ; lit .
`` good luck '' ) is a phrase used  to एक्स्प्रेस बधाई लिये a प्रसन्न और significant अवसर or इवेंट .
hepatitis c is an संक्रामक बीमारी affecting primarily  the liver , caused by the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) .
The infection  is प्रायः asymptomatic , लकिन दीर्घकालिक संक्रमण can सीसे to scarring of the जिगर और ultimately  to cirrhosis , which is generally apparent after many years .
In some  मामले , those साथ cirrhosis होगा go on to develop जिगर विफलता , जिगर कर्कट or life-threatening  esophageal and gastric varices .
HCV is spread  primarily by blood-to-blood सम्पर्क संबद्ध साथ intravenous ड्रग उपयोग  , poorly sterilized medical equipment and transfusions .
An estimated 130–200  लाख लोगों विश्वव्यापी हैं संक्रमित साथ  .
The  अस्तित्व of ( originally `` non- a non- b hepatitis '' ) थी postulated  in the 1970s and proven in 1989 .
only  infects इंसानो और chimpanzees  .
The  वायरस persists in the जिगर in परिचय  85 % of those infected .
This persistent infection can be treated with  दवा : the मानक चिकित्सा is a संयोजन of peginterferon और ribavirin , साथ  either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases .
Overall  , 50–80 % of लोगों treated  are cured .
Those who  develop cirrhosis or जिगर कर्कट may आवश्यकता  a liver transplant .
is the leading cause of liver  प्रत्यारोपण , हालांकि the वायरस प्रायः बारंबार बाद प्रत्यारोपण .
No  टीका विरूद्ध is  available .
A flexible spending account ( FSA ) , also known as a flexible spending  व्यवस्था , is एक of a क्रमांक of tax-advantaged वित्तीय खाते कि can be नियत up through a कैफेटेरिया योजना  of an employer in the United States .
An FSA allows an employee to set aside a portion of earnings to pay for  योग्य खर्च as स्थापित in the कैफेटेरिया योजना , सबसे commonly लिये चिकित्सा खर्च  but often for dependent care or other expenses .
Money  deducted इससे an कर्मचारी 's अदा into an fsa is नहीं विषय to payroll कर  , resulting in substantial payroll tax savings .
One significant disadvantage  to using an fsa is कि निधि नहीं प्रयुक्त by the समाप्त of the योजना साल हैं खोया to the कर्मचारी , ज्ञात as the `` उपयोग  it or lose it '' rule .
The most common type of flexible spending account , the medical expense FSA (  भी चिकित्सा fsa or स्वास्थ्य fsa ) , is समान to a स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता ( hsa ) or a स्वास्थ्य reimbursement  account ( HRA ) .
however , जबकि hsas और hras हैं लगभग exclusively प्रयुक्त as components of a  consumer driven health care plan , medical FSAs are commonly offered with more traditional health plans as well .
In addition , funds in a  स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता हैं नहीं खोया जब the योजना साल is over  , unlike funds in an FSA .
पेपर फ़ॉर्म or an fsa डेबिट कार्ड , भी ज्ञात as a  Flexcard , may be used to access the account funds .
टेनेसी ( ) ( ) is a u.S.  state located in the Southeastern United States .
टेनेसी is the 36th सबसे extensive और the 17th सबसे populous  of the 50 United States .
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north , North Carolina to the east ,  जॉर्जिया , अलबामा , और मिसिसिपी to the दक्षिण , और अरकंसास और मिसौरी to the  west .
The  एपलाशियन kyu dominate the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य , और the मिसिसिपी  River forms the state 's western border .
Tennessee 's capital and  दूसरी largest नगर is नैशविले , जिससे रै a  population of 609,644 .
Memphis is the state  's largest नगर , साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of  652,050 .
The state of Tennessee  is rooted in the watauga संघ , a 1772 frontier अनुबंध generally regarded as the  first constitutional government west of the Appalachians .
What is now Tennessee  थी initially भाग of उत्तर कैरोलिना , और बाद भाग of the दक्षिणपश्चिम  Territory .
Tennessee was  admitted to the संघ as the 16th  state on June 1 , 1796 .
Tennessee was the last state to  छोड़ the संघ और जुड़ें the confederacy at the outbreak of the u.S. सिविल युद्ध in 1861 , और the पहला राज्य to be readmitted  to the Union at the end of the war .
Tennessee furnished more  सैनिको लिये the confederate फौज than कोई अन्य राज्य , और अधिक सैनिको  for the Union Army than any other Southern state .
In  the 20th सदी , टेनेसी transitioned इससे an कृषिक अर्थव्यवस्था to a अधिक diversified  economy , aided at times by federal entities such as the Tennessee Valley Authority .
In the early 1940s , the city of Oak Ridge was  स्थापित to हाउस the मैनहटन प्रोजेक्ट 's यूरेनियम संवर्धन सुविधाएं  , helping to build the world 's first atomic bomb .
Tennessee has played a critical role in the development of many forms  of अमरीकी लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक , सहित चट्टान और फेंकें , ब्लूज़ , देश , और rockabilly .
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by many to be the birthplace of the  ब्लूज़ , साथ संगीतकारों ऐसे as w.c . सुलभ performing in  its clubs as early as 1909 .
Memphis was also home to Sun Records ,  जहाँ संगीतकारों ऐसे as एल्विस प्रेस्ली , इसहाक़ हेज़ , जॉनी नकदी , कार्ल perkins , जेरी ली लुईस , रॉय orbison , और चार्ली समृद्ध began उनके  recording careers , and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s .
The 1927 Victor  रिकॉर्डिंग सत्र in ब्रिस्टल generally चिह्नित the शुरूआत of the देश म्यूज़िक विधा और the वृद्धि of the  Grand Ole Opry in the 1930s helped make Nashville the center of the country music recording industry .
Three bricks and mortar museums recognize  टेनेसी 's भूमिका in nurturing विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक : the मेम्फिस चट्टान n ' आत्मा संग्रहालय , the देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of कीर्ति और संग्रहालय  in Nashville , and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson .
In addition ,  the rockabilly हॉल of कीर्ति , an ऑनलाइन साईट recognizing the विकास of rockabilly  in which Tennessee played a crucial role , is based in Nashville .
Tennessee 's  प्रमुख उद्योग शामिल कृषि , निर्माण , और पर्यटन  .
Poultry ,  soybeans , और चौपायों हैं the राज्य 's प्राथमिक agricultural उत्पाद , और प्रमुख  manufacturing exports include chemicals , transportation equipment , and electrical equipment .
The Great  smoky kyu नेशनल पार्क , the स्वदेश 's सबसे visited नेशनल पार्क , is headquartered in the पूर्वी भाग of the राज्य , और a खण्ड of the एपलाशियन ट्रेल  roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border .
Other major  पर्यटक आकर्षण शामिल the टेनेसी एक्वेरियम in चट्टानूगा , the sunsphere in knoxville , dollywood in कबूतर forge , the पार्थेनन , the देश म्यूज़िक हॉल of कीर्ति और  Museum , and Ryman Auditorium in Nashville , and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis .
One design  रूपांतर of a मुर्गा  ring .
A cock ring is a ring that can be placed around a man 's  शिश्न , प्रायः at the आधार , primarily to slow the प्रवाह of रक्त इससे the वीर्यपात penile ऊतक , यूँ maintaining an स्तंभन लिये a much longer  period of time .
Cock rings can be worn around just the penis or both  the शिश्न और scrotum , or बस the scrotum अलोन , हालांकि इस is प्रायः पुकारा  a testicle cuff .
Rings can be made of a variety  of अलग सामग्री , सबसे commonly चमड़े , रबर , or silicone , हालांकि नायलॉन  and metal are also used either as the main component or part of the closure .
The term  मुर्गा रिंग is sometimes प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये a प्रिंस अल्बर्ट piercing , a piercing of the  penis that is usually , though not always , a metal ring .
When used in cases of erectile  dysfunction वे हैं ज्ञात by विभिन्न names ऐसे as `` स्तंभन रिंग '' और `` टेंशन  ring '' .
The  मुख्यालय of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल at 245 पार्क एवेन्यू , midtown मैनहटन ,  New York City , USA .
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a professional  बेसबॉल लीग , consisting of टीमों कि खेल in the नेशनल लीग और the अमरीकी  League .
Dating to 1876 and 1901  क्रमशः , the दो लीग मिलाया in 2000 into a सिंगल संगठन led by the कमिश्नर  of Baseball , after 100 years as separate legal entities .
MLB constitutes one of the major professional sports  लीग of the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा  .
it is रचित of 30 टीमों — 29 in the संयुक्त  States and one in Canada .
Teams in MLB play 162 games each  ऋतु over छह महीने ( अप्रैल through सितंबर  ) .
Five teams in each  लीग अग्रिम to a four-round postseason टूर्नामेंट कि culminates in the संसार श्रेणी , a best-of-seven-games  championship series between the two league champions which dates to 1903 .
The organization oversees many minor-league  बेसबॉल लीग जिससे operate परिचय 240 टीमों संबद्ध साथ the  major-league clubs .
With the International Baseball Federation  , the लीग भी manages the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संसार बेसबॉल  Classic tournament .
MLB has the highest season attendance of any sports league in  the संसार साथ nearly 75 लाख spectators in 2012 .
Delaware ( ) is a U.S. state  स्तिथ on the अटलांटिक coast in the mid-atlantic  region of the United States .
It is bordered to  the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by मेरीलैंड , to the पूर्वोत्तर by नई जर्सी , और to the उत्तर by  Pennsylvania .
The  राज्य takes इसके नाम इससे थामस वेस्ट , 3rd सामन्त de la warr , an अंग्रेज़ी nobleman और वर्जिनिया 's पहला  colonial governor , after whom what is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named .
Delaware  is स्तिथ in the northeastern portion of the delmarva प्रायद्वीप और is the दूसरी smallest , the छठे तनिक  populous , but the sixth most densely populated of the fifty United States .
Delaware is  विभाजित into तीन काउंटी  .
From  उत्तर to दक्षिण , ये तीन काउंटी हैं नई किला  , Kent , and Sussex .
While the southern two counties have  historically महरूम predominantly agricultural , नई किला काउंटी रै महरूम अधिक industrialized  .
Before its coastline was explored by  europeans in the 16th सदी , डेलावेयर थी inhabited by अनेक समूह of देशी अमेरिकी , सहित the lenape in  the north and Nanticoke in the south .
It was initially  colonized by डच व्यापारियों at zwaanendael , स्तिथ निकट the उपस्थित  town of Lewes , in 1631 .
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the  अमरीकी क्रान्ति और on दिसम्बर 7 , 1787 , became the पहला राज्य to ratify the संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य , thereby बनने ज्ञात as the पहला राज्य  .
Energy  परिवर्तन in उर्जा प्रणालियों भाषा
Energy  परिवर्तन or उर्जा परिवर्तन is the प्रक्रम of बदलना एक रूप of उर्जा  to another .
In physics , the term energy describes the capacity to produce certain  परिवर्तन भीतर a प्रणाली , बगैर लिहाज़ to सीमाएं in परिवर्तन  imposed by Entropy .
Changes in total energy of  प्रणालियों can तभी be संपन्नता by adding or subtracting उर्जा इससे उन्हें , as उर्जा is a मात्रा जिससे is conserved , according to the  first law of thermodynamics .
According to special  आपेक्षिकता , परिवर्तन in the उर्जा of प्रणालियों होगा भी coincide साथ परिवर्तन in the  system 's mass , and the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of its energy .
Energy in a  प्रणाली may be रूपांतरित so कि it resides in a अलग राज्य , or  a different type of energy .
Energy in many states  may be प्रयुक्त to do अनेक किस्में of शारीरिक  work .
उर्जा may be प्रयुक्त in प्राकृतिक प्रक्रियाओं or मशीने , or else to provide कुछ  service to society ( such as heat , light , or motion ) .
For example , an internal combustion  इंजन converts the संभावित रासायनिक उर्जा in गैसोलीन और ऑक्सीजन into ऊष्मा , जिससे is तब रूपांतरित  into the propulsive energy ( kinetic energy that moves a vehicle ) .
A solar cell  converts सौर विकिरण into विद्युत उर्जा कि can तब be प्रयुक्त to लाइट  a bulb or power a computer .
The generic name for a device which converts energy  इससे एक रूप to another , is a ट्रान्सड्यूसर  .
In general , most  प्रकार of उर्जा , सहेजें लिये थर्मल उर्जा , may be  converted efficiently to any other kind of energy .
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 % , such as when potential  उर्जा is परिवर्तित to गतिज उर्जा as an ऑब्जेक्ट जलप्रपात in वैक्यूम , or जब it orbits nearer or दूर इससे another  object , in space .
Conversion of other types of  energies to ऊष्मा may भी occurs साथ nearly पूर्ण दक्षता  ( many types of friction do this ) .
Exceptions  लिये पूर्ण परिवर्तन दक्षता ( भी लिये पृथक प्रणालियों ) occur जब उर्जा रै already महरूम partly वितरित among अनेक उपलब्धियाँ क्वांटम राज्य लिये a संग्रहण of अणु , जिससे हैं freely  allowed to explore any state of momentum and position ( phase space ) .
In  ऐसे हालातों , a माप पुकारा एन्ट्रॉपी , or evening-out of उर्जा वितरण in ऐसे राज्य  , dictates that future states of the system must be of at least equal evenness in energy distribution .
( There is no  रास्ता , लेने the ब्रह्मांड as a पूरे , to collect उर्जा into कम राज्य  , once it has spread to them ) .
A consequence of this requirement is that there are limitations  to the दक्षता साथ जिससे थर्मल उर्जा can be परिवर्तित to अन्य kinds of उर्जा , चूंकि थर्मल उर्जा in संतुलन at a दिए  temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states .
Such energy is sometimes  माना `` degraded उर्जा , '' क्युकी it is नहीं entirely  usable .
The second law of thermodynamics is a way of stating that , for this reason , thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy with efficiencies approaching 100 % , only if the entropy ( even-ness or disorder ) of  the ब्रह्मांड is increased by अन्य अर्थात् , to compensate लिये the घटी in एन्ट्रॉपी संबद्ध साथ the disappearance of the थर्मल उर्जा और इसके एन्ट्रॉपी  content .
Otherwise , only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and  यूँ , उपयोगी कार्य ) , चूंकि the शेष of the ऊष्मा जरूर be सुरक्षित to be transferred to a थर्मल टंकी at a निम्नतर तापमान , in ऐसे a रास्ता कि the बढ़ाएँ in एन्ट्रॉपी लिये इस प्रक्रम अधिक than  compensates for the entropy decrease associated with transformation of the rest of the heat into other types of energy .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an ``  unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates a प्रमुख पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग of 30 franchised सदस्य क्लब , of जिससे सात हैं फिलहाल स्तिथ  in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New York City , the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice  हॉकी लीग in the संसार , और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा  .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest  पेशेवर खेल ट्रॉफी in उत्तर अमेरिका , is awarded annually to the लीग playoff  champion at the end of each season .
The league was  व्यवस्थित on नवम्बर 26 , 1917 , in मॉन्ट्रियल , क्यूबेक , कनाडा , बाद the बर्खास्तगी  of operations of its predecessor organization , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It  प्रारंभ साथ चार टीमों और , through a श्रेणी of expansions , contractions , और relocations  , the league is now composed of 30 active franchises .
The nation to which the name  of the लीग originally referred थी कनाडा , हालांकि the लीग रै अभी महरूम  binational since 1924 when it expanded into the United States .
After a labour dispute  कि led to the रद्दीकरण of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 ऋतु , the लीग resumed खेल  under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap .
In 2009 ,  the एनएचएल enjoyed रिकार्ड highs in शर्तें of sponsorships , उपस्थिति  , and television audiences .
The NHL  draws अनेक अत्यधिक skilled खिलाड़ी इससे सब over the संसार  and currently has players from about 20 different countries .
Although  canadians have historically गठित the बहुमत of the खिलाड़ी in the एनएचएल , over the पास्ट चार प्लस दशकों the percentages of us और यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी have increased दोनो क्युकी of the एनएचएल 's जारी  expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
This is the complete list of the ratified and  unratified amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान जिससे प्राप्त the स्वीकृति of the संयुक्त  States Congress .
twenty-seven amendments have महरूम ratified चूंकि the असली हस्ताक्षर of the संविधान , the पहला टेन of  which are known collectively as the Bill of Rights .
The procedure for amending the United States  संविधान is governed by आलेख v of the असली  text .
There have been many other proposals for  amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान introduced in कॉंग्रेस , लकिन नहीं सुपुर्द to  the states .
Before an amendment can take effect , it must be  प्रस्तावित to the राज्य by a two-thirds vote of दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस or by a सम्मेलन ( ज्ञात as an आलेख v सम्मेलन ) पुकारा by two-thirds of the राज्य , और ratified by three-fourths of the  states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof , the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal .
To date , no convention for proposing amendments  रै महरूम पुकारा by the राज्य , और तभी once—in 1933 लिये the अनुसमर्थन of the twenty-first amendment —has the सम्मेलन विधि  of ratification been employed .
FMR LLC (  वफ़ादारी प्रबन्धन और शोध ) or वफ़ादारी निवेश is an अमरीकी  multinational financial services corporation .
It is one of the largest mutual fund and  वित्तीय सेवाएं समूह in the संसार  .
It was  संस्थापित in 1946 और serves उत्तर  American investors .
वफ़ादारी ventures is  its venture capital arm .
Fidelity International Limited ( FIL ) , was an international affiliate founded in  1969 , सेवारत सबसे देशों in the बाकी of the  world .
In  सितंबर 2011 , फील थी rebranded as 'fidelity  Worldwide Investment ' .
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds , provides fund distribution  और निवेश सलाह सेवाएं , as खूब as providing छूट brokerage सेवाएं , रिटायरमेंट सेवाएं , माल प्रबन्धन , प्रतिभूति  execution and clearance , life insurance and a number of other services .
जून 2006 थी the छठे माह of  that year .
It began on a Thursday and ended after  30 दिनों on a शुक्रवार the following कार्यक्रम भी occurred  during the month:
Sociology is the  वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of इंसान समाज और इसके origins , विकास  , organizations , and institutions .
It is a social  विज्ञान जिससे उपयोग विभिन्न विधि of अनुभवजन्य छानबीन और नाजुक विश्लेषण to develop a देह of ज्ञान  about human social activity , structures , and functions .
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be applied  सीधे to सोशल नीति और welfare , जबकि अन्य फ़ोकस primarily on शोधन the सैद्धांतिक समझना  of social processes .
Subject matter ranges from the micro level of individual agency and  बातचीत to the मैक्रो स्तर of प्रणालियों और the सोशल ढांचा  .
The traditional focuses  of समाजशास्त्र शामिल सोशल स्तरीकरण , सोशल क्लास , संस्कृति , रेस और नस्ल , लिंग  and sexuality , social mobility , religion , secularization , law , and deviance .
As all spheres of human activity are affected by the interplay between social structure  और व्यक्तिगत एजेंसी , समाजशास्त्र रै धीरे विस्तारित इसके फ़ोकस to further विषय , ऐसे as स्वास्थ्य , चिकित्सा , सैन्य और penal संस्थानों , the अंतरजाल , पर्यावरणीय समाजशास्त्र  , political economy and the role of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge .
The  दायरा of सोशल वैज्ञानिक विधि रै  also expanded .
सोशल शोधकर्ताओं चित्रण upon a किस्में of गुणात्मक  and quantitative techniques .
The linguistic and cultural  turns of the mid-twentieth सदी led to increasingly interpretative , hermeneutic  , and philosophic approaches to the analysis of society .
Conversely , recent decades have seen the rise of new  analytically , mathematically और computationally कठोर तकनीकों , ऐसे  as agent-based modelling and social network analysis .
Sociology should not be confused with various general  सोशल अध्ययन पाठ्यक्रम जिससे भालू छोटी संबंध to समाजशास्त्रीय सिद्धान्त or सोशल  science research methodology .
Thunder  is the ध्वनि caused by बिजली  .
Depending on the nature of the lightning and distance of the listener , thunder can range from a  शार्प , लाउड क्रैक to a long , कम rumble ( brontide ) .
The sudden increase in  दबाव और तापमान इससे बिजली produces रैपिड विस्तार of the एयर surrounding  and within a bolt of lightning .
In turn ,  इस विस्तार of एयर creates a सोनिक शॉक वेव , समान to a सोनिक बूम , जिससे produces the ध्वनि of थंडर , प्रायः referred to as a clap  , crack , or peal of thunder .
The distance of the  बिजली can be गणना by the श्रोता आधारित on the समय अंतराल इससे जब  the lightning is seen to when the sound is heard .
Palma ( , ,  ) , in पूरा पालमा de mallorca , is the प्रमुख नगर और बंदरगाहों on the द्वीप of majorca ( mallorca ) और पूंजी  city of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands in Spain .
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of Majorca ) and Ciutat (  नगर ) यहूद प्रयुक्त पहले the युद्ध of the स्पेनी उत्तराधिकार और हैं स्टिल प्रयुक्त by लोगों in majorca  .
however , the आधिकारिक नाम थी mallorca  , the same as the island .
It is situated on  the दक्षिण coast of the द्वीप on  the Bay of Palma .
As of the 2009 census , the population of the city of Palma  उचित थी 401,270 , और the जनसांख्यिकी of the संपूर्ण शहरी क्षेत्रफल थी 517,285 , रैंकिंग as the बारहवीं largest  urban area of Spain .
Almost  हाफ of the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of majorca  live in Palma .
The  cabrera द्वीपसमूह , हालांकि widely अलग इससे पालमा उचित , is administratively  considered part of the municipality .
Its  विमानक्षेत्र , बेटे सन्त जोन , serves over  22 million passengers each year .
The  marivent राजमहल थी offered by the नगर  to the then Prince Juan Carlos I of Spain .
The royals have since spent their  गर्मियाँ छुट्टियाँ in पालमा  .
luthor redirects  here .
For other  उपयोग , देखिए लूथर ( बहुविकल्पी  ) .
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is  a fictional अक्षर , a supervillain appearing in कॉमिक किताबे प्रकाशित  by DC Comics .
Luthor is the  archenemy of सुपरमैन , और as a high-status supervillain , रै भी आइये into विरोध  with Batman and other superheroes in the DC Universe .
Created  by जेरी siegel और जो shuster , the अक्षर पहला  appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( April 1940 ) .
Luthor is described as `` a  power-mad , दुष्ट वैज्ञानिक '' of ऊँची प्रज्ञा और अविश्वसनीय technological prowess  .
Luthor 's goals typically  बीच on हत्या सुपरमैन , the foremost बाधा to achieving the विलेन  's megalomaniacal goals .
Despite periodically wearing a powered  बहि , luthor रै traditionally lacked superpowers or a  dual identity .
The character was originally  चित्रित as a mad वैज्ञानिक जो , in the रग of गूदा novels , wreaks कहर on the संसार  with his futuristic weaponry .
In his earliest appearances ,  luthor is दिखाया साथ a पूरा सिर of रेड बाल  .
Despite this , the character later became  hairless as the परिणाम of an कलाकार  's mistake .
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's origin and motivations ,  revealing उसे to be a बाल्यकाल dost of सुपरमैन 's जो खोया उसके बाल जब a आग नष्ट उसके प्रयोगशाला  ; Luthor vowed revenge .
following the 1985 सीमित श्रेणी संकट on अनन्त earths , the अक्षर थी re-imagined as a machiavellian उद्योगपति  and white-collar criminal , even briefly serving as President of the United States .
In recent years ,  विभिन्न लेखक have revived luthor 's mad वैज्ञानिक  persona from the 1940s .
The character was ranked as the 8th  महानतम विलेन by जादूगर on इसके 100 महानतम खलनायक  of All Time list .
IGN 's list of the Top  100 कॉमिक किताब खलनायक of सब समय क्रमित luthor as  # 4 .
luthor is भी वर्णित as a `` megavillain '' by कॉमिक किताब आलोचक पीटर sanderson , एक of a few genre-crossing खलनायक जिनकी adventures लो प्लेस `` in a संसार in जिससे the ordinary कानून of प्रकृति हैं थोड़ा निलंबित '' ; वर्ण ऐसे as प्राध्यापक moriarty , गिनती ड्रैकुला , hannibal lecter  , Doctor Doom , and Darth Vader , also fit this description .
Martin Luther King , Jr. Day is a United States  संघीय अवकाश अंकन the जन्मदिवस of रेव . dr. मार्टिन लूथर किंग  , Jr .
It is observed on  the तीसरा सोमवार of जनवरी प्रत्येक साल , जिससे is around  the time of King 's birthday , January 15 .
the फ्लोटिंग अवकाश is समान to छुट्टियाँ नियत अंतर्गत the वर्दी सोमवार अवकाश  Act , though the act predated the establishment of Martin Luther King , Jr. Day by 15 years .
King  थी the मुख्य प्रवक्ता लिये nonviolent सक्रियता in the सिविल अधिकारों गति , जिससे सफलतापूर्वक  protested racial discrimination in federal and state law .
The  अभियान लिये a संघीय अवकाश in किंग 's सम्मान began  soon after his assassination in 1968 .
Ronald  reagan हस्ताक्षरित the अवकाश into विधि in 1983 , और it थी पहला  observed on January 20 , 1986 .
At  पहला , कुछ राज्य resisted observing the अवकाश as ऐसे , giving it वैकल्पिक  names or combining it with other holidays .
It was  officially observed in सब 50 राज्य लिये the पहला  time in 2000 .
The camera phone  समाधान allows तत्काल sharing of तस्वीरें  .
As it 's  स्वचालित और तत्काल , the उपयोक्ता करता नहीं have to उपयोग a केबल or removable मीडिया  to connect to a personal computer .
A camera phone is a mobile  फोन जिससे is समर्थ to कैप्चर स्टिल छायाचित्र (  and usually video ) .
Since  जल्दी in the 21st सदी the बहुमत of मोबाईल फोन  in use are camera phones .
Most  कैमरा फोन हैं simpler than पृथक  digital cameras .
Their usual fixed focus lenses and  छोटी सेंसर सीमा उनके प्रदर्शन in ग़रीब  lighting .
lacking a शारीरिक शटर , सबसे  have a long shutter lag .
फ्लैश , जहाँ उपस्थित , is प्रायः  weak .
Optical  जूम और तिपाई screws  are rare .
Some also lack a USB connection , removable memory card , or  अन्य रास्ता of transferring उनके तस्वीरें अधिक जल्दी than by the फोन 's अंतर्निहित संचार  feature .
Some of the more expensive camera  फोन have तभी a few of ये तकनीकी disadvantages , जिससे लागू सबसे acutely in कम लाइट शर्तें और in  any case have not inhibited their widespread use .
Most model lines  improve in ये प्रणाम प्रत्येक  year or two .
Some , such as the Droid Incredible only have a  मेनू चुनाव to प्रारंभ an अनुप्रयोग कार्यक्रम  to activate the camera .
Others , such as the BlackBerry Storm 2 , Droid X ,  मोटोरोला v980 और नोकिया 5800 भी have a पृथक कैमरा बटन लिये quickness  and convenience .
Windows Phones can be configured to  operate as a कैमरा भी if the फोन is asleep  .
Some camera phones are designed to resemble separate low-end digital compact  कैमरे in रूप और to कुछ extent in सुविधाएँ और चित्र विशेषता , और हैं ब्रांडेड as दोनो मोबाईल फोन और कैमरे , सहित निश्चित सोनी फोन  .
The principal advantages of camera phones are  लागत और compactness ; बेशक लिये a उपयोक्ता जो carries a मोबाईल फोन वैसे  , the additional size and cost are negligible .
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile  अनुप्रयोग to add सामर्थ्य ऐसे as geotagging और चित्र stitching  .
A few high end phones can use their touch screen to  सीधा उनके कैमरा to फ़ोकस on a particular ऑब्जेक्ट in the फ़ील्ड of दृश्य , giving भी an अनुभवहीन उपयोक्ता a उपाधि of फ़ोकस कंट्रोल exceeded तभी  by seasoned photographers using manual focus .
`` Whatever Happened to the Man  of कल ? '' is a 1986 कॉमिक किताब स्टोरी featuring the dc कॉमिक्स  character of Superman .
Written by Alan Moore with  सहायता इससे long-time , और जल्द to be retiring , सुपरमैन एडिटर , जूलियस schwartz , the स्टोरी थी प्रकाशित in दो भाग , शुरूआत in  Superman # 423 and ending in Action Comics # 583 , both published in September 1986 .
The story was drawn by  long-time कलाकार रूखा swan , in उसके फाइनल प्रमुख योगदान to the सुपरमैन शीर्षक , और थी inked by जार्ज pérez in the समस्या  of Superman and Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics .
The story was an imaginary tale which told the final story of the Silver Age  सुपरमैन और उसके long इतिहास , जिससे थी होने rebooted following the कार्यक्रम of संकट on अनन्त earths , पहले  his modern introduction in the John Byrne series , The Man of Steel .
Moore wanted  उसके प्लाट to सम्मान the long इतिहास of the अक्षर और to serve as  a complete conclusion to his mythology .
The story is a frame story set  टेन सालो बाद सुपरमैन थी पिछला देखी , जहाँ लोइस लेन recounts the टेल of the समाप्त of सुपरमैन 's करियर to a रिपोर्टर  from the Daily Planet .
Her story includes numerous violent attacks against Superman by his enemies , the  पब्लिक रहस्योद्घाटन of उसके रहस्य पहचान of  Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him .
The story has been cited as one of the best stories of the character of  सुपरमैन , और आलोचकों और ऑडियंस अक्सर चुनें it as एक of the सबसे  memorable comics ever published .
it is प्रयुक्त as an उदाहरण of कैसा to बंद the long-time  continuity of a comic book character .
The story 's  विरासत रै endured साथ समान कहानियां  written as tributes to it .
The title is a reference to one  of the nicknames of सुपरमैन as the man of कल , और  was used in the title of another Superman .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a  mid-engined ग्रैंड touring car , designed और विकसित by the volkswagen समूह  and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super  खेल संस्करण of the veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal उत्पादन car in  the world , with a top speed of .
the असली संस्करण रै a शीर्ष  speed of .
It was named Car  of the दशक ( 2000–2009 ) by the बीबीसी टेलीविज़न  programme Top Gear .
The standard Veyron  जीती शीर्ष गियर्स बेहतरीन car चलित सब साल पुरस्कार  in 2005 .
On 6 April 2013 , Bugatti set  the रिकार्ड लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the संसार साथ the veyron ग्रैंड खेल vitesse , reaching  on average a top speed of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was  hartmut warkuss , और the exterior थी designed by jozef kabaň of volkswagen , साथ much of the  engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A number  of खास विसंगतियाँ have  been produced .
In  दिसम्बर 2010 , bugatti began offering prospective खरीदार the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स  colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website .
The institution of the Eucharist  रै महरूम a कुंजी थीम in the depictions of the पिछला भोजन in ईसाई आर्ट , as in इस 16th-century  Juan de Juanes painting .
``  at the पिछला भोजन , on the रात्रि he थी गद्दारी , हमारी रक्षक instituted the eucharistic  sacrifice of his Body and Blood . ''
( Catechism  of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर  1323 )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass , that is ,  the eucharist liturgy , और the ब्रैड और वाइन जिससे बाद the प्रतिष्ठापना हैं transubstantiated ( बदला  in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ , Lord and God , a declaration formulated by the Council of Trent with an anathema against anyone who denied this .
Blessed Sacrament is a  devotional पद प्रयुक्त in the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर to refer  to the Eucharistic species ( the Body and Blood of Christ ) .
The following is a list of colleges and  विश्वविद्यालयों in the u.S. राज्य of  Louisiana .
A short story is  a ब्रैड कार्य of साहित्य , प्रायः  written in narrative prose .
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling  परंपराओं in the 17th सदी , the छोटी स्टोरी रै grown to encompass a देह of कार्य so विविध as to defy  easy characterization .
At its most prototypical the short story features a small  डाल of नामित वर्ण , और focuses on a self-contained घटना साथ the intent of evoking a `` सिंगल  effect '' or mood .
In so  doing , छोटी कहानियां मेक उपयोग of प्लाट , अनुनाद , और अन्य डायनेमिक components  to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote , yet to a far lesser degree than a novel .
While the short story is  largely पृथक इससे the अनोखा , लेखक of दोनो generally चित्रण  from a common pool of literary techniques .
Short  कहानियां have no नियत लंबाई  .
In terms of word count there is no official  demarcation between an किस्सा , a छोटी स्टोरी , और  a novel .
Rather , the form 's parameters  हैं दिए by the rhetorical और व्यावहारिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे a दिए स्टोरी is उत्पादित और माना , so कि कया constitutes  a short story may differ between genres , countries , eras , and commentators .
Like the novel , the short story 's predominant shape  reflects the मांगे of the उपलब्धियाँ बाज़ार लिये प्रकाशन , और the एवोल्यूशन of the रूप seems closely tied to the एवोल्यूशन of the प्रकाशन उद्योग और the  submission guidelines of its constituent houses .
the छोटी स्टोरी रै महरूम माना दोनो an शिक्षुता रूप preceding अधिक lengthy works ,  and a crafted form in its own right , collected together in books of similar length , price , and distribution as novels .
Short story writers may  define उनके works as भाग of the कलाकारी और निजी  expression of the form .
They  may भी attempt to resist categorization  by genre and fixed form .
क्षेत्रफल कोड in मिशिगन
Area  कोड 810 is the टेलीफोन क्षेत्रफल कोड सेवारत  eastern Michigan .
The raccoon ( , Procyon lotor ) , sometimes  spelled racoon , भी ज्ञात as the आम raccoon , उत्तर अमरीकी raccoon  , northern raccoon and colloquially as coon , is a medium-sized mammal native to North America .
The raccoon is the largest of the  procyonid परिवार , having a देह लंबाई of और a देह वज़न  of .
Its  grayish कोट ज़्यादातर consists of घना underfur जिससे insulates  against cold weather .
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features are its  अत्यधिक dexterous सामने पंजे और इसके फेशियल मुखौटा , जिससे हैं विषयवस्तु in the mythology of अनेक देशी  American tribes .
Raccoons are  विख्यात लिये उनके प्रज्ञा , साथ अध्ययन प्रर्दशित कि वे हैं समर्थ to याद  the solution to tasks for up to three years .
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon ,  जिससे is प्रायः nocturnal , consists of परिचय 40 % invertebrates , 33 % संयंत्र  foods , and 27 % vertebrates .
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and mixed forests , but due to  उनके adaptability वे have विस्तारित उनके दायरा to mountainous क्षेत्रों , तटीय marshes , और शहरी क्षेत्रों , जहाँ  some homeowners consider them to be pests .
As a result of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century  , raccoons हैं अभी भी वितरित आरपार the यूरोपीय मेनलैंड , the काकेशस  region and Japan .
Though previously thought to be solitary , there is now  प्रमाण कि raccoons engage in gender-specific सोशल बर्ताव  .
Related females often share a common area , while  unrelated males सजीव साथ in समूह of up to चार पशु to maintain उनके स्थितियाँ विरूद्ध विदेशी  males during the mating season , and other potential invaders .
Home range sizes  vary anywhere इससे 3 हेक्टेयर ( 7 एकड़ ) लिये महिलाओं in शहरों to  50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for males in prairies .
After a  gestation काल of परिचय 65 दिनों , दो to पाँच यंग  , known as `` kits '' , are born in spring .
The kits are  subsequently उठाया by उनके माँ जबतक  dispersion in late fall .
हालांकि खिलाते raccoons have महरूम ज्ञात to सजीव over 20 सालो , उनके औसत जीवन  expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 years .
In many areas , hunting  और vehicular चोट हैं the दो सबसे  common causes of death .
the 2010 हैती भूकंप थी a अनर्थकारी परिमाण 7.0 mw भूकंप , साथ an उपरिकेंद्र निकट the कस्बा of léogâne (  Ouest Department ) , approximately west of Port-au-Prince , Haiti 's capital .
The earthquake occurred at  16:53 लोकल समय ( 21:53 utc ) on मंगलवार  , 12 January 2010 .
By 24 January , at least 52 aftershocks  measuring 4.5 or वृहद था महरूम अंकित  .
An estimated three  लाख लोगों यहूद प्रभावित  by the quake .
the उच्चतम विश्वसनीय मौत गिनती थी अनुमानित  at 220,000 .
Haitian  सरकारी estimates यहूद  higher .
The government of Haiti estimated that 250,000  निवास और 30,000 वाणिज्यिक इमारतें था collapsed  or were severely damaged .
The earthquake  caused प्रमुख क्षति in port-au-prince , jacmel और  other settlements in the region .
Many notable landmark buildings were significantly damaged or destroyed , including the Presidential  राजमहल , the नेशनल सभा भवन , the port-au-prince गिरजाघर  , and the main jail .
Among those killed were  archbishop of port-au-prince जोसेफ सर्ज miot , और विपक्ष  leader Micha Gaillard .
The headquarters of the United  राष्ट्र स्थिरीकरण मिशन in हैती ( minustah ) , स्तिथ in the पूंजी , collapsed , हत्या  many , including the Mission 's Chief , Hédi Annabi .
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian aid , pledging  निधि और dispatching बचाव और चिकित्सा टीमों , इंजीनियर्स और support कर्मियों  .
Communication  प्रणालियों , एयर , जमीन , और समुद्र हस्तांतरण सुविधाएं , अस्पताल , और विद्युत संजाल था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त by the भूकंप , जिससे hampered बचाव और सहायता प्रयत्न  ; confusion over who was in charge , air traffic congestion , and problems with prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work .
port-au-prince 's morgues यहूद अभिभूत साथ  tens of thousands of bodies .
ये था to be दफ्न in  mass graves .
As rescues tailed off ,  आपूर्तियाँ , चिकित्सा परवाह और स्वच्छता became  priorities .
देरी in सहायता वितरण led to एंग्री appeals इससे सहायता मजदूर  and survivors , and looting and sporadic violence were observed .
On 22 January  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र विख्यात कि the आपात phase of the राहत आपरेशन थी आरेखण to a बंद , और  on the following day the Haitian government officially called off the search for survivors .
Mister Ed is a fictional talking  घोड़ा , originally appearing in छोटी कहानियां by वाल्टर R. ब्रूक्स , और बाद in an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न हालात कॉमेडी उत्पादित by filmways कि पहला aired in अनुप्रयोग  from January 5 to July 2 , 1961 , and then on CBS from October 1 , 1961 to February 6 , 1966 .
The stars of the show were Mister Ed , a palomino horse who could `` talk '' , played by  gelding बाँसुरी harvester और voiced by पूर्व पश्चिमी स्टार allan लेन ( जो गई uncredited लिये the संपूर्ण लंबाई of the श्रेणी ) , और उसके मालिक , an eccentric और enormously  klutzy , yet friendly , architect named Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ) .
Much of the program 's humor stemmed from the fact Mister Ed  होता बोलो तभी to wilbur , as खूब as ed 's सुर्खी as a troublemaker  .
Other running jokes  केन्द्रित on wilbur 's अक्षर होने a विशाल klutz और inadvertently  causing harm to himself or others .
According to the show 's producer ,  आर्थर lubin , यंग थी चुनी as the सीसे अक्षर क्युकी he `` बस लगा जैसे the  sort of guy a horse would talk to '' .
Lubin , a friend of  mae वेस्ट , scored a तख्तापलट by persuading the स्क्रीन प्रतीक  to guest star in one episode .
In the United States ,  reruns aired on उपनाम at नाइट इससे कूच 3 , 1986 ,  to February 1 , 1993 .
Sister  स्टेशन tv जमीन भी reran the दिखाएँ इससे 1996–98  and again from 2003-06 .
The series is currently  ब्रॉडकास्ट प्रत्येक morning on इस tv , साथ साथ राजमार्ग  Patrol , and The Patty Duke Show .
It is also  फिलहाल ब्रॉडकास्ट on hallmark फिल्म चैनल  .
As of January 1  , 2011 , the पहला दो सीज़न of the  show are available on Hulu .
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1 Thessalonians 4:17 , when the `` dead  in मसीह '' और `` we जो हैं जिंदा और remain '' होगा be `` caught up in the बादल '' to मिलें `` the रब in the  air '' .
The term  `` rapture '' is प्रयुक्त in at तनिक  two senses .
In the pre-tribulation view , a group  of लोगों होगा be बाएँ पीछे on धरती बाद another समूह वस्तुतः पत्ते `` to मिलें  the Lord in the air . ''
इस is अभी the सबसे आम उपयोग of the पद , विशेषकर among  fundamentalist Christians and in the United States .
The other , older use of the  पद `` rapture '' is बस as a पर्याय लिये the फाइनल क़यामत generally , बगैर a विश्वास कि a  group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
This distinction is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in religious  शिक्षा , लकिन might उपयोग the पुरानी और अधिक सामान्य भाव of the शब्द `` rapture '' in referring to कया happens दौरान the फाइनल क़यामत  .
There  हैं अनेक दृश्य among ईसाइयों regarding the समय of मसीह 's वापसी ( सहित whether it होगा occur in एक इवेंट or दो ) , और विभिन्न दृश्य  regarding the destination of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4 .
Denominations such as Roman Catholics ,  परंपरागत ईसाइयों , लूथरन ईसाइयों , और reformed ईसाइयों मानना in a rapture तभी in the भाव of a सामान्य फाइनल क़यामत  , when Christ returns a single time .
They do not believe that a group of people is left behind on earth for an  विस्तारित tribulation काल बाद the कार्यक्रम of 1 thessalonians 4:17  .
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was  विकसित in the 1830s by जॉन नेल्सन darby और the plymouth brethren , और popularized in the संयुक्त राज्य in the जल्दी 20th सदी by the चौड़ी परिसंचरण of the scofield  Reference Bible .
Kris Nathan  humphries ( born फ़रवरी 6 , 1985 ) is an अमरीकी पेशेवर बास्केट  player with the Brooklyn Nets .
The Philistine  शहरों of गाजा , ashdod , ashkelon , ekron  , and Gath
The Philistines ( , , , or ; , Plištim ) , Pleshet or Peleset , were a people who  as भाग of the समुद्र peoples appeared in the दक्षिणी तटीय क्षेत्रफल of canaan at the शुरूआत of the आयरन आयु ( circa 1175 bc ) , सबसे संभवतः  from the Aegean region .
According to the Bible , they ruled the five city-states ( the ``  philistine pentapolis '' ) of गाजा , ashkelon , ashdod , ekron और gath , इससे wadi गाजा in the दक्षिण to the yarqon नदी in the उत्तर , लकिन साथ no फिक्स्ड  border to the east .
The Bible paints  उन्हें as the किंगडम of इसराईल 's सबसे खतरनाक  enemy .
Originating somewhere in the Aegean ,  उनके जनसांख्यिकी थी around 25,000 in the 12th सदी bc , उठती to a शिखर of 30,000 in the 11th सदी bc , of जिससे the ईजियन तत्व थी  not more than half the total , and perhaps much less .
Nothing is known for certain about the original language or languages of the  philistines , however वे यहूद नहीं भाग of the सामीती canaanite  population .
There is some limited  प्रमाण in पक्ष of the assumption कि the philistines यहूद indo-european-speakers either इससे  Greece and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor .
Philistine-related words  मिला in the बाइबल हैं नहीं सामीती , और can in कुछ मामले ,  with reservations , be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots .
By the  शुरूआत of the 1st मिलेनियम bce वे था अपनाया the  general Canaanite language of the region .
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple  चुनाव परीक्षण , administered by the संयुक्त राज्य सैन्य प्रवेश प्रसंस्करण कमांड , प्रयुक्त to determine योग्यता  for enlistment in the United States armed forces .
It is often offered to American high school students  जब वे हैं in the 10th , 11th और 12th ग्रेड , हालांकि anyone योग्य लिये enlistment may  take it .
Although the test is administered by the  सैन्य , it is नहीं ( और never रै महरूम ) a आवश्यकता कि a test-taker साथ a qualifying स्कोर enlist in the हथियारबंद शक्तियां  .
In financial accounting ,  a संतुलन चादर or बयान of वित्तीय स्थिति is a सारांश of the वित्तीय balances of a एकमात्र बंदोबस्त , a कारोबार साझेदारी , a  corporation or other business organization , such as an LLC or an LLP .
Assets , liabilities and  स्वामित्व इक्विटी हैं सूचीबद्ध as of a विशिष्ट तिथि , ऐसे as the समाप्त of इसके वित्तीय  year .
A balance sheet  is प्रायः वर्णित as a `` स्नैपशॉट of a कम्पनी 's वित्तीय  condition '' .
Of the four  मौलिक वित्तीय कथन , the संतुलन चादर is the तभी बयान जिससे applies to a  single point in time of a business ' calendar year .
A standard company balance sheet has  तीन भाग : एसेट , देनदारी और स्वामित्व  equity .
The main categories of assets are usually listed first ,  और typically in अनुक्रम of चलनिधि  .
एसेट हैं followed by the  liabilities .
The difference between  the एसेट और the देनदारी is ज्ञात as इक्विटी or the जाल एसेट or the जाल लायक or पूंजी of the कम्पनी और  according to the accounting equation , net worth must equal assets minus liabilities .
Another way to look  at the वही समीकरण is कि एसेट बराबरी देनदारी  plus owner 's equity .
Looking at the equation in  इस रास्ता shows कैसा एसेट यहूद financed : either by उधार धन ( देयता ) or by using  the owner 's money ( owner 's equity ) .
Balance sheets  हैं प्रायः प्रस्तुत साथ एसेट in एक खण्ड और देनदारी और जाल लायक in the अन्य  section with the two sections `` balancing . ''
A business operating entirely in cash can measure its profits by withdrawing  the संपूर्ण बैंको संतुलन at the समाप्त of the काल , प्लस कोई नकदी in हाथ  .
However ,  अनेक व्यवसायों हैं नहीं सशुल्क तत्काल ; वे निर्माण up inventories of goods  and they acquire buildings and equipment .
In other words  : व्यवसायों have एसेट और so वे can नहीं , भी if वे want to , तत्काल  turn these into cash at the end of each period .
Often , these  व्यवसायों owe धन to आपूर्तिकर्ता और to कर अधिकारियों , और the proprietors do नहीं withdraw सब  their original capital and profits at the end of each period .
In other  शब्द व्यवसायों भी have देनदारी  .
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire ,  commonly ज्ञात as the .17 hmr , is a rimfire राइफल कार्ट्रिज  developed by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002 .
It descended from the .22 Magnum by necking  bas the .22 मैग्नम मामला to लो a .17 कैलिबर ( 4.5 mm ) गोली , और it is अधिक costly to shoot than  traditional .22 caliber rimfire cartridges .
Commonly  loaded साथ a 17 अनाज ( 1.1 g ) गोली , it can उद्धार muzzle  velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ) .
The Schaumburg Flyers were  a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in schaumburg , इलिनोइस  , in the United States .
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the North American League , which is not affiliated with Major  लीग बेसबॉल , however , the टोली folded in कूच 2011 , पहले वे began खेल in the nal  .
From the 1999 season to the 2010  ऋतु , the flyers निभाई उनके घर खेल at alexian फ़ील्ड , निकट the एल्गिन o'hare  Expressway .
The  टोली formerly निभाई in थंडर खाड़ी , ओंटारियो , जहाँ  they were known as the Thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks .
The team  थी originally a सदस्य of the उत्तरी लीग  from 1993 to 2010 .
On July 27 , 2009 , the Flyers played host to  बैटल of the लिंगों ii , जिससे pitted the flyers विरूद्ध the नेशनल प्रो fastpitch सॉफ्टबॉल champions , the  Chicago Bandits .
Played by official softball rules , the game was seen  by an अतिप्रवाह रिकार्ड भीड of 8,918 , और थी जीती by the  Bandits 4-2 .
In  1999 , the flyers नियुक्त उनके पहला मैनेजर  , Ron Kittle .
Kittle is best known for his  playing दिनों साथ the शिकागो श्वेत sox , और पूर्व शिकागो शावक और श्वेत sox खिलाड़ी  Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach .
During the early years of the franchise ,  kittle किया a श्रेणी of tv commercials to प्रचार the टोली , using the gimmick `` ma kittle  . '' where he played both himself and his `` Ma . ''
The ads  यहूद कामयाब at sparking कुछ आरंभिक ब्याज in the टोली as the flyers hoped to चोरी दूर प्रशंसक इससे the आसपास केन काउंटी  Cougars .
The ad mimicked the highly successful  converse विज्ञापन जहाँ लैरी जॉनसन स्ट्रक्चर as दोनो खुद और `` gramama  . ''
At the end of the 2001 season , however , Kittle  resigned इससे उसके managerial स्थिति , और जिम boynewicz थी नियुक्त to बदलें  him .
In 2004 , the  flyers बना it to the उत्तरी लीग चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी विरूद्ध the st.  Paul Saints .
Despite leading the  five-game श्रेणी 2-1 , schaumburg आखिरकार  lost the series .
In Game 5 , Flyers relief  पिचर lyle prempas अनुमत a खेल जीतना ग्रैंड स्लैम by st. पॉल infielder मार्क mirizzi  in the ninth inning .
The Flyers appeared in the Northern  लीग playoffs चार टाइम्स ( 1999 , 2003 , 2004 , 2006 ) लकिन never जीती the  championship .
Some famous players who played for the Flyers were former Oakland A 's  outfielder ozzie canseco और पूर्व शिकागो शावक outfielder ड्वाइट स्मिथ  .
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice / ;  born 7 कूच 1970 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी फिल्मी और थिएटर अभिनेत्री  and former fashion model .
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall , Cambridge in  the जल्दी 1990s , तब प्रारंभ working in टेलीविज़न , appearing in इंस्पेक्टर मोर्स , the अंग्रेजों mini-series स्कारलेट और ब्लैक , और  the television film Advocates II .
She made her film début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ) , but her  भेदन भूमिका आए in the फिल्मी कड़ी प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ) , अग्रणी to a high-profile भूमिका as एवलिन carnahan-o'connell in the films the मम्मी  ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ) .
Other notable  films featuring वाइज़ हैं दुश्मन at the गेट्स , परिचय a लड़के , constantine , the फव्वारा और the निरंतर माली , लिये जिससे वो प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार , a सुनहरी ग्लोब और a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं ' गिल्ड  award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle .
She has been  labelled an `` अंग्रेज़ी रोज़ '' चूंकि उसके नाबालिग  role in Stealing Beauty ( 1996 ) .
वाइज़ भी works  in theatre .
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 revival of Noël Coward 's play  डिज़ाइन लिये जीना , जिससे अर्जित उसके the लंदन आलोचकों वृत्त पुरस्कार लिये the सबसे होनहार newcomer  .
वाइज़ 's प्रदर्शन भी शामिल the 1999 donmar गोदाम उत्पादन of टेनेसी विलियम्स ' एकाएक , पिछला गर्मियाँ , और  their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire .
Her  portrayal of blanche dubois in the latter खेल अर्जित उसके the आलोचकों '  Circle Theatre Award for Best Actress .
She has recently  निभाई evanora in oz the ग्रेट और  Powerful .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought  इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed  the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had  इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन  of slavery into the western territories .
विदेशी शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's  अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of restoring नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed  slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential  चुनाव , republicans , led by अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी  into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but  पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861 , सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य  formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans  rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's  inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate  civil war .
Eight  बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी  to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces  जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy  .
A Peace  सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह , और दोनो पहलू prepared  for war .
The  confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene  ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when  confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण  Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort  ; नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy , bringing उनके  total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border  राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था  .
The Eastern  थिएटर थी inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862  confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate  retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य  .
To the west , by  गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी ,  then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert  E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the  Battle of Gettysburg .
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट  command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the  पश्चिमी थिएटर , विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र , destroying  Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the  confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड , the confederate  capital .
The defending Confederate army failed ,  अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox  Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American  सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक  wars .
railroads , the टेलीग्राफ , steamships , और mass-produced हथियार  were employed extensively .
The  mobilization of civilian कारखानों , खानों , shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन  and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It  remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित  750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian  जॉन huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45  years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Potato bread is a form  of ब्रैड in जिससे आलू replaces a portion of the नियमित  wheat flour .
It is cooked in a variety of methods  , सहित by बेकिंग it  on a hot griddle or pan , or in an oven .
It  may be leavened or unleavened , और may have  a variety of other ingredients baked into it .
The ratio of potato to wheat flour  varies significantly इससे रेसिपी to रेसिपी , साथ कुछ व्यंजनों having a बहुमत of  potato , and others having a majority of wheat flour .
Some recipes call for mashed  आलू , साथ अन्य कॉलिंग लिये निर्जलित आलू flakes  .
It is available as a commercial product in many countries , with similar  विसंगतियाँ in संघटक , कुकिंग विधि , और अन्य  variables .
The Pacific  समय मण्डल observes मानक समय by subtracting आठ घंटों  from Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
The clock time in this zone is based on  the औसत सौर समय of the 120th मध्याह्न वेस्ट of the ग्रीनविच  Observatory .
दौरान daylight छायांकन समय ,  its time offset is .
In the United States and Canada , this time zone  is generically पुकारा प्रशांत  Time ( PT ) .
Specifically , it is Pacific Standard  समय ( pst ) जब observing मानक समय ( शीत ) , और प्रशांत daylight समय ( पीडीटी ) जब observing daylight छायांकन  time ( summer ) .
Most of  कनाडा उपयोग daylight छायांकन  time .
In Mexico the UTC−8 time  मण्डल is ज्ञात as the उत्तरपश्चिम मण्डल , जिससे is synchronized साथ the  U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule .
The largest city in the Pacific Time Zone  is लॉस एंजिल्स in कैलिफ़ोर्निया इससे यूएसए ; the नगर 's महानगर क्षेत्रफल is the largest in  the zone .
The zone is one hour ahead of the Alaska Time Zone , one hour behind the  पहाड़ समय मण्डल और तीन घंटों पीछे the पूर्वी समय मण्डल .
Stereo 8  , commonly ज्ञात as the eight-track कार्ट्रिज , eight-track टेप , or बस  eight-track , is a magnetic tape sound recording technology .
It  थी लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the mid-1960s through to the जल्दी 1980s , लकिन  was relatively unknown in many European countries .
It was  , however , बहुत लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त  Kingdom during this period .
Stereo 8 was created in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill Lear of Lear Jet Corporation , along with Ampex , Ford Motor  कम्पनी , सामान्य मोटर्स , मोटोरोला , और आरसीए विक्टर रिकॉर्ड ( आरसीए )  .
It was a further development of the similar  stereo-pak four-track कार्ट्रिज निर्मित by अर्ल `` madman '' muntz  .
A later  quadraphonic संस्करण of the स्वरूप थी घोषित by आरसीए in अप्रैल 1970 और पहला  known as Quad-8 , then later changed to just Q8 .
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian : , alternatively transcribed as Rameses and Ramses or ) , referred to  as रामेसेस the ग्रेट , थी the तीसरा मिश्र pharaoh ( reigned 1279 bc – 1213 bc ) of the उन्नीसवीं  dynasty .
He is often regarded as the  महानतम , सबसे मनाये , और सबसे शक्तिशाली pharaoh  of the Egyptian Empire .
His successors and  बाद उन्होंने पुकारा उसे the `` ग्रेट पूर्वज  . ''
Ramesses II led several military  रिझाने into the levant , re-asserting मिश्र  control over Canaan .
He also led expeditions to the  दक्षिण , into नुबिया , commemorated in inscriptions at beit el-wali  and Gerf Hussein .
at आयु चौदह , रामेसेस थी नियुक्त  Prince Regent by his father Seti I .
He is believed to have taken the throne in his late teens and is known to have ruled  मिश्र इससे 1279 bc to 1213 bc लिये 66 सालो और 2 महीने , according to दोनो manetho और मिश्र 's समकालीन ऐतिहासिक  records .
He was  एकबार कहा to have जिया to be 99 सालो बूढ़ा , लकिन it is अधिक संभावित कि he died  in his 90th or 91st year .
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as most Egyptologists  आज मानना , he होता have assumed the सिंहासन on may 31 , 1279 bc , आधारित on उसके ज्ञात accession  date of III Shemu day 27 .
Ramesses II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed  त्यौहार ( the पहला आयोजित बाद तीस सालो of a pharaoh 's शासनकाल , और तब प्रत्येक तीन सालो ) दौरान उसके reign—more than कोई अन्य  pharaoh .
On his death , he was buried in a  मकबरा in the घाटी of the किंग्स ; उसके देह थी बाद स्थानांतरित to a royal संचय जहाँ it थी खोजा  in 1881 , and is now on display in the Cairo Museum .
The  जल्दी भाग of उसके शासनकाल थी केन्द्रित on भवन शहरों  , temples and monuments .
He established  the नगर of pi-ramesses in the nile डेल्टा as उसके नई पूंजी और प्रमुख आधार लिये  his campaigns in Syria .
This city was built on the remains of the city  of avaris , the पूंजी of the हिक्सोस जब वे took  over , and was the location of the main Temple of Set .
He is also known as Ozymandias in the Greek sources ,  इससे a लिप्यन्तरण into यूनानी of a भाग of रामेसेस 's सिंहासन नाम , , `` ra 's  mighty truth , chosen of Ra '' .
The Texas Rangers are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली स्तिथ in the dallas-fort लायक metroplex , आधारित  in Arlington , Texas .
The Rangers franchise is currently a member of the Western  प्रभाग of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's अमरीकी  League .
Since  , the रेंजरों have निभाई in रेंजरों ballpark  in Arlington in Arlington , Texas .
the टोली 's नाम is उधार इससे the प्रसिद्ध  law enforcement agency of the same name .
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the  वॉशिंगटन सीनेटरों , an विस्तार टोली awarded to वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , बाद the नगर 's पहला ballclub , the असली वॉशिंगटन  Senators , moved to Minnesota and became the Twins .
After  the ऋतु , the नई सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to आर्लिंगटन , टेक्सास ,  and debuted as the Rangers the following spring .
The Texas Rangers Baseball Club has made  छह दिखावे in the एमएलबी postseason , सब following प्रभाग championships , in 1996 , 1998  , 1999 , 2010 , 2011 and 2012 .
In 2010 , the  रेंजरों उन्नत पास्ट the प्रभाग श्रेणी लिये the पहला समय ,  defeating the Tampa Bay Rays .
टेक्सास तब brought घर उनके पहला अमरीकी लीग pennant  after beating the New York Yankees in six games .
In the 2010 World Series , the franchise  's पहला , the रेंजरों गिरी to the सैन फ्रांसिस्को  Giants in five games .
Their lone victory made them the first Texas  टोली to जीत a संसार श्रेणी खेल , the ह्यूस्टन एस्टर्स having महरूम swept in उनके 2005 संसार श्रेणी रूप  .
They repeated as  अमरीकी लीग champions the following साल , तब खोया the 2011 संसार श्रेणी  to the St. Louis Cardinals in seven games .
Gaius Julius Caesar ( , July 100 BC – 15 March 44  bc ) थी a रोमन सामान्य , statesman , कौंसुल और notable लेखक of लैटिन  prose .
He played a critical role in the events  कि led to the निधन of the रोमन गणतंत्र और the वृद्धि of the रोमन  Empire .
In 60  bc , सीज़र , crassus और pompey formed a राजनैतिक गठबंधन कि  was to dominate Roman politics for several years .
Their attempts to  amass शक्ति through populist tactics यहूद opposed by the रूढ़िवादी elite भीतर the रोमन सीनेट , among उन्हें केटो the younger साथ  the frequent support of Cicero .
सीज़र 's conquest of gaul , समाप्त by 51 bc , विस्तारित रोम 's territory  to the English Channel and the Rhine .
Caesar became  the पहला रोमन सामान्य to क्रॉस दोनो जब he निर्मित a सेतु आरपार the राइन  and conducted the first invasion of Britain .
These achievements granted him unmatched  सैन्य शक्ति और threatened to ग्रहण the खड़ा of pompey , जो था realigned खुद साथ the सीनेट  after the death of Crassus in 53 BC .
साथ the gallic युद्धों concluded , the सीनेट ordered  Caesar to lay down his military command and return to Rome .
Caesar refused , and marked his defiance in 49 BC by crossing  the rubicon साथ a लीजन , leaving उसके प्रांत और illegally प्रवेश रोमन territory अंतर्गत  arms .
सिविल युद्ध resulted , इससे जिससे he उभरा as the unrivaled नेता  of Rome .
After assuming  कंट्रोल of सरकारी , सीज़र began a कार्यक्रम of सोशल और सरकारी reforms  , including the creation of the Julian calendar .
He centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic and was  आखिरकार proclaimed `` तानाशाह in perpetuity  '' .
But the underlying political conflicts had not been resolved  , और on the ides of कूच ( 15 कूच ) 44 bc , सीज़र थी assassinated by a समूह of सीनेटरों  led by Marcus Junius Brutus .
A new series of civil wars broke out , and the  संवैधानिक सरकारी of the गणतंत्र थी never लौटी  .
Caesar 's  अपनाया वारिस octavian , बाद ज्ञात as augustus , रोज़ to एकमात्र  power , and the era of the Roman Empire began .
Much of Caesar  's जीवन is ज्ञात इससे उसके अपना खाते of उसके सैन्य अभियान , और  from other contemporary sources , mainly the letters and speeches of Cicero and the historical writings of Sallust .
the बाद biographies of सीज़र by suetonius और प्लूटार्क हैं  also major sources .
सीज़र is deemed to be एक of the महानतम  military commanders of history .
भाषाई मैप of सीरियल  , Cameroon , and Benin .
Sign  in अंग्रेज़ी , बाहर the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Lagos
There are hundreds of  भाषाएं बोला in सीरियल  .
The major languages are  योरूबा , हौसा , इग्बो , ईदो ,  Fulfulde , Kanuri , and Ibibio .
The official language of  सीरियल , अंग्रेज़ी , the पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा , थी चुनी to सुकर the  cultural and linguistic unity of the country .
अंग्रेज़ी , however , remains an विशेष बचाना of the देश 's शहरी elite , और is नहीं widely बोला  in rural areas , which comprise three quarters of the countries population .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of  अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे , encompassing तीन प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी  languages families : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
Nigeria also has several  as-yet unclassified भाषाएं , ऐसे as cen tuum , जिससे may represent a relic of an भी वृहद विविधता prior to the स्प्रेड of the  current language families .
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot , ( UK ) bird 's nest , bishop 's lace , and Queen  ऐनी 's फीता ( उत्तर अमेरिका ) ) is a flowering संयंत्र in the परिवार apiaceae , देशी to शीतोष्ण regions of यूरोपीय , दक्षिणपश्चिम एशिया और naturalised  to North America and Australia .
Domesticated carrots are cultivars of a  subspecies , daucus carota subsp . sativus  .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually means a  न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य और पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट  pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In  जोड to the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य , जिनकी अस्तित्व और कुछ पहलुओं of जिनकी क्षेत्राधिकार हैं परे the संवैधानिक शक्ति of कॉंग्रेस to  alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as  a संघीय न्यायधीश ; ऐसे स्थितियाँ शामिल the मुख्य इंसाफ और संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत , सर्किट न्यायाधीशों of the न्यायालयों of appeals , और ज़िला  judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges  वर्णित यूँ दूर हैं referred to sometimes as `` आलेख iii न्यायाधीशों '' क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक शाखा  of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In  जोड , न्यायाधीशों of the अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार  exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in  the संघीय न्यायालयों , सहित मजिस्ट्रेट न्यायाधीशों और दिवालियापन न्यायाधीशों , हैं भी sometimes referred to as `` संघीय न्यायाधीशों '' ; however  , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
देखिए आलेख i और आलेख iii  tribunals .
Nelly Kim  फ़र्टाडो ( born दिसम्बर 2 , 1978 ) is a कनाडाई सिंगर  , songwriter and actress .
She has sold 20 million albums  विश्वव्यापी और अधिक 20 लाख singles , bringing उसके कुल बिक्री to over 40 लाख रिकॉर्ड around  the world .
Furtado first gained  कीर्ति साथ उसके डेब्यू एल्बम , वाह  , Nelly !
, which spawned two successful  singles , `` i 'm जैसे a बर्ड `` और `` फेरे  Off the Light `` . ``
I 'm  जैसे a बर्ड '' जीती a 2001 juno पुरस्कार लिये  Single of the Year and a 2002 Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
In 2003 , Furtado released Folklore , which produced three  अंतरराष्ट्रीय singles— `` powerless ( कह कया तुम want ) `` , `` कोशिश `` और `` força  `` .
Three years later she released  ढीला , a विश्वव्यापी वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी  .
The album spawned  चार number-one हिट्स : `` promiscuous `` , `` maneater `` , ``  Say It Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) `` .
After a  three-year ब्रेक , वो released उसके पहला full-length स्पेनी एल्बम , mi योजना , और फ़र्टाडो प्राप्त a लैटिन ग्रैमी  for Best Female Pop Vocal Album .
In 2012 , Furtado 's fourth English-language studio  एल्बम , the स्पिरिट अविनाशी थी  released .
Furtado 's  कार्य रै अर्जित उसके numerous पुरस्कार और accolades , सहित 2 ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , 10 juno पुरस्कार , 3 muchmusic  Video Awards and a star on Canada 's Walk of Fame .
Creatures of the Night is  the दसवाँ स्टुडियो एल्बम by चुंबन  .
It is the band 's last album for Casablanca Records ,  the तभी लेबल the समूह था कभी अंकित लिये at कि पाइंट .
The album was dedicated to the memory of Casablanca  संस्थापक और जल्दी चुंबन समर्थक neil bogart , जो था died of कर्कट दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग  sessions .
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official  सदस्य ( जबतक 1998 's psycho सर्कस ) , और इसके पहला एल्बम साथ vinnie विंसेंट as the initially uncredited सीसे guitarist ( विंसेंट  would later be credited , but not featured pictorially on the cover , of 1985 's reissue of the album ) .
Touch is a crucial  अर्थात् of receiving सूचना  .
इस फ़ोटो shows tactile markings identifying सीढ़ियाँ  for visually impaired people .
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system  comprising the receptors और प्रसंस्करण केंद्रों to उपज the संवेदी modalities ऐसे as टच , तापमान , proprioception  ( body position ) , and nociception ( pain ) .
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia ,  skeletal मांसपेशियां , हड्डियों और joints , आतंरिक अंगों , और the cardiovascular  system .
While  टच is माना एक of the पाँच परंपरागत होश , the  impression of touch is formed from several modalities .
In medicine , the  colloquial पद `` टच '' is प्रायः replaced साथ `` दैहिक होश '' to बेहतर प्रतिबिंबित the  variety of mechanisms involved .
Somatic senses are  sometimes referred to as somesthetic होश , साथ the समझना कि somesthesis शामिल टच , proprioception  and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception .
The system reacts to diverse stimuli  using अलग receptors : thermoreceptors  , nociceptors , mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors .
Transmission of information  इससे the receptors गुजरता via संवेदी nerves through tracts in the स्पाइनल cord और into the दिमाग  .
Processing primarily  occurs in the प्राथमिक somatosensory क्षेत्रफल in the  parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex .
The  cortical homunculus थी devised by वाइल्डर  Penfield .
At  इसके सरलतम , the प्रणाली works जब कार्यकलाप in a संवेदी न्यूरॉन is triggered by a विशिष्ट stimulus ऐसे as ऊष्मा ; इस सिग्नल आखिरकार गुजरता to an क्षेत्रफल in the दिमाग  uniquely attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location .
The point-to-point mapping of the body  सतहों in the दिमाग is पुकारा a homunculus और is अनिवार्य in the सृष्टि  of a body image .
This  brain-surface ( `` cortical '' ) मैप is नहीं अपरिवर्तनीय  , however .
Dramatic shifts can  occur in जवाब to स्ट्रोक  or injury .
magnolia is a विशाल genus of परिचय 210 flowering संयंत्र प्रजाति in the subfamily  Magnolioideae of the family Magnoliaceae .
It is  नामित बाद फ्रेंच वनस्पतिशास्त्री पियरे magnol  .
magnolia is an प्राचीन  genus .
appearing पहले मधुमक्खियों किया , the पुष्प विकसित  to encourage pollination by beetles .
to avoid क्षति इससे pollinating भृंग , the carpels of magnolia पुष्प  are extremely tough .
fossilised नमूनों of magnolia acuminata have महरूम मिला डेटिंग to 20 लाख सालो पहले ,  and of plants identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years ago .
Another  पहलू of magnolias कि is माना to represent an ancestral राज्य is कि the पुष्प कली is enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in sepals  ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated and called tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals .
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic with several other  flowering पौधे निकट the आधार of the flowering संयंत्र lineage ऐसे as amborella और nymphaea ( as खूब as साथ अनेक अधिक  recently derived plants such as Lilium ) .
The natural range of  magnolia प्रजाति is a disjunct वितरण , साथ a प्रमुख केन्द्र in ईस्ट और southeast  Asia and a secondary centre in eastern North America , Central America , the West Indies , and some species in South America .
अंगूठा
`` White Christmas '' is  an इरविंग बर्लिन सोंग reminiscing परिचय an old-fashioned क्रिसमस  setting .
According to the Guinness Book of World Records , the version sung  by bing crosby is the best-selling सिंगल of सब समय , साथ अनुमानित बिक्री  in excess of 50 million copies worldwide .
Accounts  vary as to जब और जहाँ बर्लिन  wrote the song .
One story is that he wrote it in 1940  , in गरम la quinta , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , जबकि रहकर at the la quinta होटल , a बारंबार हॉलीवुड रिट्रीट भी favored by writer-producer  Frank Capra , although the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there .
He  प्रायः ठहरे up सब रात्रि लिखने — he बताई उसके  secretary , `` Grab your pen and take down this song .
I just wrote the best song I 've  कभी लिखा — हेक , i बस लिखा the बेहतरीन सोंग  that anybody 's ever written ! ''
Cross-country skiing  ( or xc स्कीइंग ) is a रूप of स्की touring in जिससे भागीदार propel themselves आरपार  snow-covered terrain using skis and poles .
The activity is popular in many  स्थान साथ विशाल snowfields , primarily उत्तरी यूरोपीय ,  Canada , and Alaska .
Cross-country skiing is part of the Nordic skiing sport family , which includes ski jumping ,  nordic संयुक्त ( cross-country स्कीइंग और स्की कूद ) , biathlon ( स्कीइंग और राइफल marksmanship ) और ski-orienteering ( जिससे  includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ) .
Cross-country skiing is the  आधुनिक स्टाइल of स्कीइंग कि सबसे resembles प्रागैतिहासिक स्कीइंग  , particularly when done in the backcountry .
It  is भी सम्बन्धित to telemark  skiing .
A use tax in United States is  पूरक to बिक्री कर जिससे अर्थात् , if तुम ख़रीदे a taxable product/services बगैर  paying any Sales tax to vendor , you owe use tax .
तुम जरूर स्वः assess उपयोग कर और अदा it सीधे to the राज्य जहाँ the उत्पाद  were consumed or services were rendered .
Use tax typically is a tax  on खपत लकिन if तुम ख़रीदे an मद ( बगैर paying बिक्री कर ) और  store it in your warehouse initially , use tax applies to that location where goods were stored .
Later on when the final  खपत takes प्लेस at कुछ अन्य स्थान , तुम हैं जरूरी to अदा the अवकल of कर  rate to the jurisdiction of ultimate place of consumption .
This really means that you do n't  have to अदा दोनो बिक्री कर as खूब as उपयोग कर on  one transaction .
It is only one or the other that you are required to pay  on खरीदें of taxable products/services  .
If  विक्रेता करता n't चार्ज कोई बिक्री कर on इसके चालान तब it is the दायित्व of the खरीदार to स्वः assess  Use tax and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication .
Use Tax is generally charged at  the वही कर रेट of बिक्री कर लकिन in कुछ राज्य the कर रेट is अलग  .
Use tax is  भी termed as `` खपत कर '' or  `` Consumer Use Tax '' .
A  उपयोग कर is a प्रकार of excise कर levied in the संयुक्त राज्य  by numerous state governments .
It is assessed upon tangible personal property purchased by a resident of the  assessing राज्य लिये उपयोग , भंडार , or खपत in कि राज्य ( नहीं लिये पुनर्विक्रय ) , regardless of जहाँ the खरीदें took प्लेस  .
If a resident of a state makes a  खरीदें भीतर उसके घर राज्य , पूरा बिक्री कर is सशुल्क at the समय  of the transaction .
The use  कर applies जब a निवासी of the assessing राज्य  purchases an item that is not subject to his home state 's sales tax .
Usually , this is  due to out-of-state purchases , as खूब as ordering वस्तुएं through the मेल , by फोन ,  or over the Internet from other states .
The use tax is typically assessed at the same rate as  the बिक्री कर कि होता have महरूम owed ( if कोई ) था the वही goods महरूम खरीदा in the राज्य of  residence .
For example , a resident of Massachusetts , with a 6.25 % `` sales and use  कर '' on निश्चित goods और सेवाएं , purchases non-exempt goods or सेवाएं in नई हैम्पशायर लिये उपयोग , भंडार or अन्य  consumption in Massachusetts .
Under New Hampshire law , the New Hampshire vendor  collects no बिक्री कर on the goods , लकिन the मैसाचुसेट्स purchaser/user जरूर स्टिल अदा 6.25  % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax .
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect  बिक्री कर लिये ऐसे goods at समय of खरीदें , whatever कर यहूद सशुल्क by the क्रेता to कि राज्य can be deducted ( as a कर क्रेडिट ) इससे the 6.25 % owed लिये subsequent उपयोग , भंडार  or consumption in Massachusetts .
With few exceptions , no state 's vendors will charge the  देशी राज्य 's बिक्री कर on goods shipped आउट of राज्य , अर्थ सब goods ordered इससे  out-of-state are essentially free of sales tax .
The purchaser is therefore required to declare and pay  the उपयोग कर to उसके घर राज्य on ये ordered goods  .
The assessing jurisdiction may make the  उपयोग कर देय annually , लकिन कुछ राज्य  require a monthly payment .
For example , where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 %  बिक्री कर on प्रॉपर्टी brought in लिये उपयोग in the राज्य , वर्मांट विधि requires दाखिल a कर वापसी ( रूप su-452 और भुगतान ) by the 20th दिन of the माह following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 लेट शुल्क , a 5 % दंड प्रति माह ,  to a maximum of 25 % , plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties .
Typical  छूटों शामिल purchases by charitable non-profit संगठन  or governmental agencies , purchases for resale in commerce , and purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business .
Also note  कि वहीँ हैं हज़ारों of कर jurisdictions in the u.S. और अनेक have ever-changing  lists of specific types of goods and services that are not taxable .
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment  of कर on `` pre-written '' ( नहीं कस्टम ) तन्त्र खरीदा और डाउनलोड over the अंतरजाल लिये संस्थापना और उपयोग in मैसाचुसेट्स  , regardless of where it originates .
However , the actual use of the same  तन्त्र डाउनलोड by a मैसाचुसेट्स निवासी to a सर्वर in another राज्य  remains a non-taxed `` service '' .
In contrast , Arkansas generally does not tax anything delivered  over the अंतरजाल ( ऐसे as डाउनलोड तन्त्र or म्यूज़िक ) , मगर voip जिससे is specifically पारिभाषित  as taxable `` telecommunications services '' .
Software ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible  मीडियम '' ( i.e. , on डिस्क ) in अरकंसास is taxable भी if ordered ऑनलाइन , मगर `` कस्टम तन्त्र लिये a particular ग्राहक '' जिससे is non-taxable `` प्रोग्रामिंग  services '' even if delivered on a disk .
In most cases , this complexity is part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while  a brick-and-mortar स्टोर रै to सौदे साथ तभी the बिक्री कर कानून of इसके अपना स्थान , रिमोट विक्रेता have to सौदे साथ the उपयोग कर कानून of अनेक jurisdictions—up to  every US state and locality that assesses them , if the company has a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ) .
In medicine , pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an  बढ़ाएँ of रक्त दबाव in the pulmonary धमनी , pulmonary रग , or pulmonary capillaries , साथ ज्ञात as the फेफड़ों vasculature , अग्रणी to shortness of साँस , dizziness , fainting  , and other symptoms , all of which are exacerbated by exertion .
Pulmonary hypertension can be  a कठोर बीमारी साथ a markedly decreased कसरत सहिष्णुता और दिल विफलता  .
it थी पहला पहचाना by dr. अर्नस्ट वोन  Romberg in 1891 .
according to the सबसे हाल वर्गीकरण , it can be एक of पाँच अलग प्रकार : arterial , venous  , hypoxic , thromboembolic or miscellaneous .
सही
सही
Sanuk , a division of Deckers Outdoor  निगम , is a जूते ब्रांड आधारित in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Sanuk , the Thai word for fun , was founded by Southern California  देशी जेफ़ kelley जब he प्रारंभ बनाना चप्पल  out of indoor-outdoor carpet .
The first product created was green carpeted  और हकदार the `` फर रियल '' बाद एक दूकान मालिक पूछा if the विलक्षणता चन्दन थी `` लिये रियल  . ''
the फर रियल पहला became a runaway hit through बुटीक स्टोर्स  and not the intended surf shops .
The novelty act was followed up by a sandal wrapped in wire mesh , a leopard  छपाई संस्करण , और शैलियाँ बना आउट of a poncho सामग्री in a किस्में  of colors .
Sanuk has grown to include style options for men ,  महिलाओं और युवावस्था और is वितरित आरपार the संयुक्त राज्य और in over 50 देशों throughout यूरोपीय , एशिया , दक्षिण अमेरिका  and Australia .
sanuk centers itself around a धनात्मक जीवनशैली वकालत the स्लोगन , ``  Smile , Pass it on ! `` .
In  कंप्यूटर विज्ञान , सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषाएं ( भी ज्ञात as वेक्टर or multidimensional भाषाएं ) generalize परिचालन  on scalars to apply transparently to vectors , matrices , and higher dimensional arrays .
Array  प्रोग्रामिंग primitives concisely एक्स्प्रेस व्यापक विचार परिचय आंकड़ा  manipulation .
The  स्तर of conciseness can be नाटकीय in निश्चित मामले : it is नहीं uncommon to ढूँढें  array programming language one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of Java code .
APL , designed by Ken  iverson , थी the पहला प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा to provide  array programming capabilities .
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A  प्रोग्रामिंग भाषा '' और नहीं to arrays प्रति se . iverson 's योगदान to rigor और स्पष्टता थी संभवतः अधिक महत्वपूर्ण than the सरल एक्सटेंशन  of dimensions to functions .
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party ,  प्रायः an व्यक्तिगत , pays a जीवन बीमे कम्पनी a सिंगल प्रीमियम कि होगा बाद  be distributed back to the insured party over time .
Annuity contracts traditionally provide  a गारंटी वितरण of आय over समय , ऐसे as via फिक्स्ड भुगतान , जबतक the मौत of the व्यक्ति  or persons named in the contract or until a final date , whichever comes first .
However ,  the बहुमत of आधुनिक annuity ग्राहक उपयोग annuities तभी to accumulate निधि फ़्री of आय और पूंजी gains कर और to  later take lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature .
अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा  .
Barack Obama with his first  परम् अदालत nominee , सोनिया सोटोमायोर  .
Following is a  सूची of सब संयुक्त राज्य संघीय न्यायाधीशों नियुक्त by अध्यक्ष बराक  Obama during his presidency .
As of April 30 , 2013 , 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the United  राज्य सीनेट , namely दो justices to the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य , 35 न्यायाधीशों to the संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों of appeals और 150 न्यायाधीशों  to the United States district courts .
25 further  nominations हैं फिलहाल प्रतीक्षारत  Senate action .
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of  appeals , 67 vacancies on the संयुक्त राज्य ज़िला न्यायालयों और 22 अतिरिक्त संघीय न्यायपालिका  vacancies that are anticipated to occur before the end of Obama 's second term .
Obama has  नहीं बना कोई recess नियुक्ति to the संघीय  courts .
Obama has made  दो nominations to the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार , an आलेख  III tribunal .
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily  C. हेविट of the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of संघीय दावा , an आलेख i अदालत , to be मुख्य न्यायधीश of कि अदालत  .
This is a  सूची of एयरपोर्ट in मैक्सिको , sorted  by location .
Mexico has about 1,834 airports  , रैंकिंग 2nd in क्रमांक of एयरपोर्ट in उत्तर  America , and 3rd in the world .
Only major  नेशनल और अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयरपोर्ट हैं दिखाया  .
एजेंसी कर्ज़ भी ज्ञात as an एजेंसी बंध is a सुरक्षा , प्रायः a  bond , issued by a U.S. government-sponsored agency .
The offerings of these agencies  हैं समर्थित लकिन नहीं गारंटी by the us सरकारी चूंकि the  agencies are private entities .
Some prominent issuers of these securities are Student Loan Marketing Association (  sallie mae ) , संघीय नेशनल बंधक संघ ( fannie mae ) और संघीय घर ऋण  Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ) .
Agency securities  हैं प्रायः exempt इससे राज्य और लोकल कर  , but not federal tax .
Agency debt  is भी पुकारा an एजेंसी  security .
The Susquehanna  भाप इलेक्ट्रिक स्टेशन , a खौलते  water reactor .
The  रिएक्टरों हैं स्तिथ अंदर the आयताकार containment इमारतें  towards the front of the cooling towers .
Three  nuclear-powered अमरीकी warships , ( शीर्ष to नीचे ) नाभिकीय cruisers uss bainbridge और uss long बीच साथ uss  Enterprise the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964 .
Crew members are  स्पेलिंग आउट आइंस्टीन 's mass-energy equivalence सूत्र e = mc2  on the flight deck .
The Russian nuclear-powered icebreaker NS  yamal on a 1994 संयुक्त expedition साथ  the NSF .
Nuclear power is the use of sustained  नाभिकीय परिवर्द्धन to generate ऊष्मा और विद्युत  .
नाभिकीय शक्ति पौधे provided परिचय 5.7 % of the संसार 's उर्जा और  13 % of the world 's electricity , in 2012 .
In 2013 , the IAEA report that there are 437 operational  नाभिकीय शक्ति रिएक्टरों ( हालांकि नहीं सब हैं producing विद्युत ) , in 31 देशों  .
In addition , there are approximately 140 naval vessels  using नाभिकीय नोदन in आपरेशन , संचालित by कुछ 180 रिएक्टरों  .
There  is an जारी बहस परिचय the उपयोग  of nuclear energy .
proponents , ऐसे as the संसार नाभिकीय संघ , the iaea और पर्यावरणविद लिये नाभिकीय  Energy contend that nuclear power is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों , ऐसे as ग्रीनपीस अंतरराष्ट्रीय और nirs , मानना कि  nuclear power poses many threats to people and the environment .
Nuclear power plant accidents include the  chernobyl विपत्ति ( 1986 ) , फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति ( 2011 ) , और  the Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ) .
There have  भी महरूम कुछ nuclear-powered पनडुब्बी mishaps  .
Research into safety  सुधार is continuing और नाभिकीय संलयन , believed to be safer  , may be used in the future .
As of  2012 , according to the iaea , विश्वव्यापी वहीँ यहूद 68 सिविल नाभिकीय शक्ति रिएक्टरों  under construction in 15 countries .
In the  us the पंक्तियां of लगभग हाफ इसके रिएक्टरों have महरूम विस्तारित to 60 सालो , और योजनाएँ  to build another dozen are under serious consideration .
However , Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi  नाभिकीय विपत्ति prompted a पुनर्विचार of नाभिकीय उर्जा नीति in अनेक देशों  .
Germany decided  to बंद सब इसके रिएक्टरों by 2022 , और इटली रै  banned nuclear power .
Following Fukushima , the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी halved इसके अनुमान of अतिरिक्त नाभिकीय generating क्षमता to  be built by 2035 .
Photograph of the Berlin  वॉल लिया इससे the वेस्ट पक्ष  .
the वॉल थी निर्मित in 1961 to prevent  East Germans from fleeing from Communism .
It was an iconic  प्रतीक of the ठंडा युद्ध और इसके पतन in 1989 चिह्नित  the end of the War .
The Cold War , often dated from 1947 to 1991 , was a sustained state of  राजनैतिक और सैन्य टेंशन between शक्तियां in the पश्चिमी bloc , वर्चस्व by the संयुक्त राज्य साथ नाटो among इसके allies , और शक्तियां in  the Eastern Bloc , dominated by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact .
इस began बाद the कामयाबी of उनके अस्थाई wartime गठबंधन विरूद्ध नाजी जर्मनी  , leaving the USSR and the US as two superpowers with profound economic and political differences .
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned  गति संस्थापित by मिश्र , इण्डिया , और यूगोस्लाविया ; इस गुट अस्वीकृत संघ साथ  either the US-led West or the Soviet-led East .
The Cold War was so named because  the दो प्रमुख powers—each possessing नाभिकीय हथियार और thereby threatened साथ परस्पर assured विनाश —never  met in direct military combat .
बजाय , in उनके संघर्ष लिये वैश्विक influence वे सगाई in जारी मनोवैज्ञानिक warfare और in नियमित  indirect confrontations through proxy wars .
Cycles of relative calm would  be followed by ऊँची टेंशन , जिससे could have  led to world war .
The tensest  टाइम्स यहूद दौरान the बर्लिन नाकेबंदी ( 1948–1949 ) , the कोरियाई युद्ध ( 1950–1953 ) , the स्वेज संकट ( 1956 ) , the बर्लिन संकट of 1961 , the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट ( 1962 ) , the वियतनाम युद्ध ( 1959–1975 ) , the योम kippur युद्ध ( 1973 ) , the सोवियत युद्ध in अफगानिस्तान ( 1979–1989 ) , the सोवियत downing  of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ) , and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ) .
The conflict was expressed through military coalitions , strategic conventional force deployments ,  extensive सहायता to क्लाएंट राज्य , espionage , विशाल प्रचार अभियान , conventional और नाभिकीय बाहें दौड़ , appeals to न्यूट्रल राष्ट्र , फंसने at खेल कार्यक्रम ( in particular the ओलंपिक ) , और technological  competitions such as the Space Race .
The US and USSR became involved in political and military conflicts in the  तीसरा संसार देशों of लैटिन अमेरिका , अफ़्रीकी , the मध्य ईस्ट , और southeast  Asia .
To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear  युद्ध , दोनो पहलू sought राहत of राजनैतिक तनाव through  détente in the 1970s .
In the 1980s , the United States increased diplomatic , military , and  आर्थिक pressures on the सोवियत संघ , at a समय जब the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य थी  already suffering from economic stagnation .
In the mid-1980s , the new Soviet President Mikhail  गोर्बाचेव introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '' , 1987 ) और ग्लास्नोस्त ( `` खुलेपन  '' , ca . 1985 ) .
Pressures  लिये नेशनल स्वतंत्रता grew stronger in पूर्वी यूरोपीय  , especially Poland .
They reached a breaking  पाइंट जब गोर्बाचेव refused to उपयोग सोवियत सैनिकों to support the faltering सरकारी of ईस्ट जर्मनी  in late 1989 .
Within weeks all the  उपग्रह राज्य broke फ़्री इससे मास्को in a शांतिपूर्ण वेव of revolutions ( वहीँ थी कुछ हिंसा in रोमानिया  ) .
The pressures escalated  अंदर the सोवियत संघ , जहाँ साम्यवादी गिरी और the ussr थी formally  dissolved in late 1991 .
the संयुक्त राज्य remained  as the world 's only superpower .
The Cold War and its events have left a significant legacy , and it  is प्रायः referred to in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति , विशेषकर in मीडिया  featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare .
Pikes Peak State Park is a state  पार्क of आयोवा , यूएसए , featuring a bluff निहार the अपर मिसिसिपी नदी विपरीत  the confluence of the Wisconsin River .
The park is operated by the Iowa  विभाग of प्राकृतिक संसाधन  .
it is nearly a हजार एकड़ (  4 km2 ) in extent .
The  निकटतम नगर is मैकग्रेगर  , Iowa .
Iowa Highway 76  लगभग defines इसके उत्तरी boundary  .
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of Pikes Peak , a particularly high  पाइंट निहार the gorge of the अपर मिसिसिपी , और जैसे pikes शिखर in कोलोराडो  , is named for Zebulon Pike .
There are hiking  trails , campgrounds और rv  facilities .
Mountain bikes  हैं permitted in निश्चित portions of the  park .
Aside  इससे recreational विकास , the जमीन in the पार्क थी never साफ और to a विशाल extent  remains as it was before the advent of white settlement .
It is part of a larger complex  of पार्क , reserves और refuges जिससे शामिल पुतला mounds नेशनल स्मारक , the विभिन्न components of the पीला नदी राज्य वन , the विशाल  Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller , much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge .
The Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System  is undergoing विकास , और होगा कनेक्ट तत्व of ये साइट  .
Zac Brown Band is an American  country/folk बैंड आधारित in अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया  .
The  लाइनअप consists of zac भूरा ( सीसे vocals , गिटार ) , jimmy de मार्टिनी ( चलाऊ , vocals ) , जॉन driskell हॉपकिंस ( बास गिटार , vocals ) , coy  Bowles ( guitar , keyboards ) , Chris Fryar ( drums ) , Clay Cook ( guitar , keyboards , mandolin , steel guitar , vocals ) , and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ) .
The band has toured throughout the  संयुक्त राज्य , सहित a स्लॉट on the 2009 और  2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival .
They have also recorded five studio albums , and charted nine Number One singles on the  बिलबोर्ड देश चार्ट : `` मुर्गा fried `` , `` toes `` , `` राजमार्ग 20 सवारी `` , `` फ़्री `` , `` as वो 's चलना दूर `` , `` colder मौसम `` , `` घुटना गहन `` , `` रखना me in दिमाग `` , और `` अलविदा in उसके आँखें `` in जोड to the singles `` whatever it is ``  and `` No Hurry `` , which peaked at number 2 on the same chart .
Talk  रेडियो is a रेडियो स्वरूप containing  discussion about topical issues .
Most shows are regularly  hosted by a सिंगल व्यक्तिगत , और प्रायः विशेषता साक्षात्कार साथ a क्रमांक of अलग  guests .
Talk radio typically  शामिल an तत्व of श्रोता भागीदारी , प्रायः by प्रसारण सजीव बातचीत between the मेजबान और श्रोता  who `` call in '' ( usually via telephone ) to the show .
Listener  योगदान हैं प्रायः screened by a दिखाएँ 's निर्माता ( s ) in अनुक्रम to अधिकतम दर्शक ब्याज और , in the मामला of वाणिज्यिक  talk radio , attract advertisers .
Generally , the shows are organized into segments , each separated by a  ठहराना लिये विज्ञापन ; however , in पब्लिक or non-commercial रेडियो , म्यूज़िक is sometimes निभाई  in place of commercials to separate the program segments .
Variations of talk radio  शामिल रूढ़िवादी बात , hot बात , उदार बात  and sports talk .
While talk radio has  historically महरूम संबद्ध साथ am/fm , starting around 2005 the प्रौद्योगिकी लिये internet-based talk-radio  shows became cost effective in the form of podcasts .
Now , it is possible for an individual to use a variety of  सेवाएं to मेजबान an internet-based talk-radio दिखाएँ बगैर carriage by a  traditional radio station .
In addition  tv प्रोग्रामिंग इससे बात और न्यूज आउटलेट ऐसे as बीबीसी , सीएनएन , ब्लूमबर्ग और फॉक्स हैं अभी प्रायः उपलब्धियाँ  expanding the world of talk radio further .
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios , but a wide variety  of अन्य डिवाइस और सेवाएं सहित pcs using itunes , स्टेशन निर्देशिका ऐसे as tunein , दिखाएँ  directory smartphones with apps such as Stitcher .
Hippa is a genus of decapod  crustaceans in the परिवार hippidae , containing the following  species:
Hippa  adactyla fabricius  , 1787
Hippa  admirabilis ( thallwitz , 1892  )
Hippa  alcimede ( de man  , 1902 )
hippa australis  Hale , 1927
Hippa carcineutes  holthuis & मैनिंग , 1970
hippa celaeno ( de man  , 1896 )
Hippa  granulatus ( borradaile  , 1904 )
hippa hirtipes ( दाना  , 1852 )
hippa इंडिका haig , मुरुगन &  Balakrishnan Nair , 1986
hippa marmorata ( hombron  & Jacquinot , 1846 )
hippa ovalis ( A. milne-edwards  , 1862 )
hippa picta ( heller  , 1861 )
Hippa  strigillata ( stimpson , 1860  )
Hippa  testudinaria (  Herbst , 1791 )
hippa truncatifrons  ( Miers , 1878 )
It is closely related to the genus Emerita , and species  have प्रायः महरूम transferred between the दो genera  .
Jakarta  ( ) , officially ज्ञात as the खास पूंजी प्रदेश of जकार्ता ( ) , is  the capital and largest city of Indonesia .
Located on the northwest  coast of जावा , जकार्ता is the देश 's आर्थिक , सांस्कृतिक और राजनैतिक केन्द्र , और साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of 10,187,595 as of नवम्बर 2011 , it is the सबसे populous नगर in इंडोनेशिया  and in Southeast Asia , and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world .
The official metropolitan area , known as Jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the initial syllables of  जकार्ता , bogor , depok , tangerang और bekasi ) , is the दूसरी largest in the संसार , yet the metropolis 's उपनगरों  still continue beyond it .
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008  वैश्वीकरण और संसार शहरों पढ़ाई समूह और संजाल ( gawc ) शोध  .
और रै an क्षेत्रफल  of .
This area has population of well over 28 million , making it one of the  संसार 's largest conurbations in शर्तें of क्रमांक of निवासियों  .
In  2011 , जकार्ता क्रमित 17th among the संसार 's 200 largest शहरों  , a jump from its 2007 ranking of 171 .
Jakarta has grown more  rapidly than kuala lumpur , बीजिंग और बैंकॉक  .
Established  in the चौथी सदी , the नगर became an महत्वपूर्ण व्यापार बंदरगाहों लिये  the Kingdom of Sunda .
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was known as Batavia ) and  रै जारी as the पूंजी of इंडोनेशिया चूंकि the देश 's स्वतंत्रता थी घोषित in 1945 .
The city is  the सीट of the आसियान सचिवालय  .
जकार्ता is परोसा by the soekarno–hatta अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , हलीम perdanakusuma अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , और tanjung priok harbour ; it is कनेक्ट by अनेक intercity  and commuter railways , and served by several bus lines running on reserved busways .
a ठेठ घर एयर कंडीशनिंग  window unit .
Air conditioning is the process of altering the  गुण of एयर ( primarily तापमान और आर्द्रता ) to अधिक favourable शर्तें .
More generally , air conditioning  can refer to कोई रूप of technological कूलिंग , हीटिंग , वेंटिलेशन , or कीटाणुशोधन  that modifies the condition of air .
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con , AC or A/C ,  और नहीं to be उलझन साथ the संक्षिप्त लिये प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान ) is a प्रमुख or घर appliance , प्रणाली , or यांत्रिकी designed to बदलें the एयर तापमान और आर्द्रता भीतर an क्षेत्रफल ( प्रयुक्त लिये कूलिंग  and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ) .
The cooling is typically done using a  सरल प्रशीतन साईकिल , लकिन sometimes वाष्पीकरण is प्रयुक्त , commonly लिये सुकून कूलिंग in इमारतें  and motor vehicles .
In construction , a  पूरा प्रणाली of हीटिंग , वेंटिलेशन और एयर कंडीशनिंग is referred to as ``  HVAC `` .
`` 6 पैर 7 पैर '' ( भी styled as `` 6'7 '' ) is a सोंग by अमरीकी rapper  Lil Wayne featuring label mate , Cory Gunz .
It is taken from his ninth  स्टुडियो एल्बम , tha कार्टर iv ( 2011  ) .
It was  officially released on itunes  on December 16 , 2010 .
It was produced  by `` a milli `` निर्माता  Bangladesh .
The  सोंग नमूने `` day-o ( the banana नाव सोंग )  `` by Harry Belafonte .
DC Talk ( styled as dc Talk ) , is a Grammy  -winning ईसाई रैप तिकड़ी  .
The group  थी formed in lynchburg , वर्जिनिया in 1987 by टोबी mckeehan  , Michael Tait , and Kevin Max Smith .
वे have released पाँच प्रमुख स्टुडियो एल्बम साथ : dc बात ( 1989 ) , nu थांग ( 1990 ) ,  Free at Last ( 1992 ) , Jesus Freak ( 1995 ) , and Supernatural ( 1998 ) .
In 2002 , the Encyclopedia  of समकालीन ईसाई म्यूज़िक पुकारा dc बात `` the सबसे लोकप्रिय  overtly Christian act of all time . ''
In 2000 , the group released an EP  titled सोलो जिससे contained दो सोलो  songs from each member .
Since that  समय , dc बात रै महरूम on an indefinite अंतराल , और the तीन बैंड सदस्यों  have each led solo careers .
They have performed and recorded individual songs  साथ अनेक टाइम्स दौरान the 2000s , हालांकि the समूह never officially reunited  or disbanded .
The group 's  musical स्टाइल विकसित significantly throughout  their career .
Their  पहला दो रिलीज , dc बात और nu थांग , यहूद  of the hip hop genre .
DC Talk 's third album , Free at Last , also mainly took  influence इससे the हिप हॉप स्टाइल , हालांकि उनके म्यूज़िक began लेने  on a rock sound .
The  तिकड़ी 's पिछला दो एल्बम , यीशु freak और अलौकिक ,  were predominantly pop rock .
The Bible is a  संकलन of अनेक shorter किताबे लिखा at अलग टाइम्स और बाद समवेत  into the biblical canon .
All but the shortest of these  किताबे have महरूम विभाजित into अध्याय , generally a पेज or so in लंबाई  , since the early 13th century .
Since  the mid-16th सदी , प्रत्येक अध्याय रै महरूम further विभाजित  into `` verses '' of a few short lines or sentences .
Sometimes a sentence spans more  than एक श्लोक , as in the मामला of , और sometimes वहीँ is अधिक than एक वाक्य in a सिंगल श्लोक  , as in the case of .
As the chapter and verse divisions were not  भाग of the असली ग्रन्थ , वे रूप भाग of the paratext of the बाइबल  .
The Jewish  विभाजन of the यहूदी टेक्स्ट differ at विभिन्न अंक  from those used by Christians .
For instance , in Jewish tradition , the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as independent verses ,  बनाना 116 अधिक आयतें , whereas the स्थापित ईसाई अभ्यास is to गिनती और क्रमांक प्रत्येक psalm ascription साथ साथ the पहला श्लोक following  it .
Some chapter divisions also occur  in अलग स्थान , e.g . in यहूदी bibles is गिने as  in Christian translations .
An index ( plural : indexes  ) is a सूची of शब्द or वाक्यांश ( 'headings ' ) और संबद्ध संकेतक ( 'लोकेटरs ' ) to जहाँ उपयोगी सामग्री  relating to that heading can be found in a document .
In a traditional back-of-the-book index  the headings होगा शामिल names of लोगों , स्थान और कार्यक्रम , और अवधारणाओं चयनित by a व्यक्ति as होने प्रासंगिक और of ब्याज to a संभावित  reader of the book .
The  संकेतक हैं typically पेज संख्याएँ , अनुच्छेद संख्याएँ  or section numbers .
In a library  कैटलॉग the शब्द हैं लेखक , शीर्षक , विषय headings , etc. , और  the pointers are call numbers .
अंतरजाल ढूंढें इंजन , ऐसे as google , और पूरा टेक्स्ट searching सहायता provide अभिगम to सूचना लकिन हैं नहीं as चयनात्मक  as an index , as they provide non-relevant links , and may miss relevant information if it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect .
In United States financial regulation , a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report made by a financial institution to the Financial Crimes Enforcement  संजाल ( fincen ) , an एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the राजकोष , regarding संदिग्ध or potentially संदिग्ध कार्यकलाप  .
फेसबुक on the ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service ,  जिनकी नाम तना इससे the colloquial नाम लिये the किताब दिए to विद्यार्थी at the प्रारंभ of the अकादमिक साल by कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों administrations  in the United States to help students get to know each other .
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark  zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin , एंड्रयू  McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership was initially limited by the  संस्थापकों to हार्वर्ड विद्यार्थी , लकिन थी विस्तारित to अन्य कॉलेजों in the बोस्टन क्षेत्रफल , the आइवी लीग , और स्टैनफोर्ड  University .
It gradually added support for  विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने to ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी , और आखिरकार to anyone  aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any users who  घोषित themselves to be at तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to become पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता  of the site .
Users must register before using the site , after which they may create a  निजी प्रोफ़ाइल , add अन्य उपयोक्ता as मित्रों , और एक्सचेंज संदेश , सहित स्वचालित सूचनाएं जब वे  update their profile .
additionally , उपयोक्ता may जुड़ें common-interest उपयोक्ता समूह , व्यवस्थित by कार्यस्थल , स्कूल or कॉलेज , or अन्य विशेषताएँ , और categorize उनके  friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As  of सितंबर 2012 , फेसबुक रै over एक  billion active users .
according to a may 2011 उपभोक्ता रिपोर्ट्स सर्वेक्षण , वहीँ हैं 7.5 लाख children अंतर्गत  13 with accounts and 5 million under 10 , violating the site 's terms of service .
In  may 2005 , accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख in फेसबुक , और  Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot .
A  जनवरी 2009 compete.com पढ़ाई क्रमित फेसबुक as the सबसे  used social networking service by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade ``  best-of '' सूची , saying , `` कैसा on धरती किया we stalk हमारी exes , याद हमारी co-workers ' जन्मदिन , कीड़ा हमारी मित्रों , और खेल a rousing खेल  of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics ,  ऐसे as फेसबुक detox , राज्य कि फेसबुक रै turned into a नेशनल  obsession in the United States , resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast  estimates फेसबुक रै 138.9 लाख मासिक अद्वितीय u.S. विज़िटर  in May 2011 .
According to Social Media  आज , in अप्रैल 2010 an अनुमानित 41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the u.S.  population had a Facebook account .
nevertheless , फेसबुक 's मार्केट विकास प्रारंभ to स्टाल in कुछ  regions , with the site losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering  on फ़रवरी 1 , 2012 , और थी headquartered in मेनलो  Park , California .
Facebook  inc. began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक और व्यापार on  the NASDAQ on May 18 , 2012 .
सल्फोनेमाइड कार्यात्मक  group
Hydrochlorothiazide  is a सल्फोनेमाइड और a thiazide  .
furosemide is a सल्फोनेमाइड , लकिन नहीं  a thiazide .
सल्फोनेमाइड or sulphonamide is the आधार of अनेक  groups of drugs .
the असली जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides ( sometimes पुकारा sulfa दवाएँ or sulpha  drugs ) are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group .
Some sulfonamides  हैं भी विहीन of जीवाणुरोधी कार्यकलाप , e.g. ,  the anticonvulsant sultiame .
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics are newer drug  समूह आधारित on the जीवाणुरोधी sulfonamides  .
Sulfa allergies are common , hence medications  containing sulfonamides हैं विहित carefully  .
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives ,  ऐसे as sulfates और sulfites , जिससे हैं chemically unrelated to the सल्फोनेमाइड समूह , और do नहीं कारण the वही hypersensitivity प्रतिक्रियाएँ  seen in the sulfonamides .
This is a  सूची of वर्ण इससे  George Lopez .
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are domesticated grey geese (  either ग्रेलैग geese or swan geese ) रखा as मुर्गीपालन लिये उनके मांस , अंडे , और bas feathers  since ancient times .
30 Seconds  to मंगल is an अमरीकी चट्टान बैंड इससे लॉस  Angeles , formed in 1998 .
Since 2007 , the band has consisted of  कर्ता jared leto ( सीसे vocals , लय गिटार , songwriter ) , शैनन leto ( ड्रम , percussion ) और tomo miličević  ( lead guitar , keyboards ) .
Following the departure of Matt Wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007 , Tim Kelleher became the bassist for the group ,  performing सजीव तभी साथ दोनो jared और miličević रिकॉर्डिंग बास लिये स्टुडियो रिकार्डिंग , जबकि braxton olita ( keyboards ) थी added to the  touring lineup in 2009 .
previously , the समूह भी प्रदर्शित guitarists solon bixler ( अभी  of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ) .
To date , 30 Seconds to Mars have released three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ) , A Beautiful Lie (  2005 ) , इस is युद्ध ( 2009 ) और तीन विस्तारित plays – एओएल सत्र अंडरकवर ( 2007 ) , to the किनारे of the धरती ( 2008 ) , और एमटीवी unplugged : 30 सेकेंड to मंगल  ( 2011 ) .
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated  ज़्यादातर साथ neo-prog , प्रगतिशील मेटल और post-grunge , लकिन वे have भी शामिल भावनाएं , screamo , स्पेस चट्टान और synthrock  into their music .
They have been compared to Pink Floyd ( who were an influence on their work ) and Tool because of their use of  philosophical और आध्यात्मिक गीत , अवधारणा एल्बम  and their use of experimental music .
A Christmas  स्टोरी is a 1983 अमरीकी क्रिसमस कॉमेडी फिल्मी आधारित on the छोटी कहानियां और semi-fictional उपाख्यानों of लेखक और raconteur जां गड़रिये , आधारित on उसके किताब in परमेश्वर we विश्वास  , All Others Pay Cash , with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories .
it थी निर्देशित by  Bob Clark .
The film has since  become a अवकाश क्लासिक और is दिखाया numerous टाइम्स on टेलीविज़न दौरान the क्रिसमस  season on the network TBS , often in a 24-hour marathon .
In 2012 , the film was selected for  संरक्षण in the नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस लिये होने `` culturally  , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
A Joe 's  केकड़ा shack शाखा in सैन  Diego , CA .
The building was  initially a rowing क्लबों और थी बाद परिवर्तित  into the restaurant .
Joe 's Crab Shack is an American  कड़ी of beach-themed seafood कैज़ुअल डाइनिंग रेस्तरां स्वामित्व  by Ignite Restaurant Group .
Founded in  ह्यूस्टन , टेक्सास , the रेस्तरां अभी operates स्थितियाँ  all across the United States of America .
It serves seafood  और अमरीकी भोजन  .
The restaurants also have a gift shop  कि बिकता facetious t-shirts featuring वाक्यांश विज्ञापन जो 's seafood  choices .
it is आधारित in  Houston , Texas .
New  यॉर्क नगर क्रूज लाइनर टर्मिनल in नरक  's Kitchen at 52nd Street .
The  नई यॉर्क यात्री जलयान टर्मिनल ( भी ज्ञात as the लक्ज़री लाइनर पंक्ति or मैनहटन क्रूज टर्मिनल  or New York Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side .
The terminal consists of North River Piers 88 , 90 , 92 and 94 on the Hudson River  between वेस्ट 46th और वेस्ट 54th गली  .
( As a general rule , pier  संख्याएँ in मैनहटन can be संकल्पित by  adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street . )
Ships  अभी डॉक at पियर 88 , 90  and 92 .
Pier 94 on the north  पक्ष is अभी प्रयुक्त लिये प्रदर्शनी स्पेस  .
Pier 86 , once used  by संयुक्त राज्य लाइनों , is अभी घर to the uss intrepid  .
In 2003 , the  टर्मिनल संभाला 900,000 यात्री  .
the नगर is forecasting कि 1.5 लाख  will use the terminal by 2017 .
the पियर हैं long  and apart .
They were  पहला समाप्त in 1935 to बदलें the चेल्सी पियर as the नगर 's  luxury liner terminal .
The  नई टर्मिनल थी निर्मित to हैंडल बडे  ships that had outgrown the Chelsea Piers .
The piers were  संवर in 1970 और हैं फिलहाल undergoing another  $ 150 million renovation .
The renovated plans call for it to  हैंडल तीन विशाल जहाजों at a समय .
in doing renovations , the नगर is भी considering  decommissioning Pier 92 .
Logo of the  नई यॉर्क क्रूज terminal.for
decades the terminal was the  तभी ocean-going यात्री टर्मिनल in नई यॉर्क  harbor .
With an  upsurge in क्रूज जलयान ट्रैफ़िक और the टर्मिनल 's क्षमता to हैंडल comfortably तभी तीन विशाल जहाजों at a समय , दो नई terminals have खोली in the हार्बर — the केप स्वतंत्रता क्रूज बंदरगाहों खोली in 2004 in bayonne , नई जर्सी ( प्रयुक्त by royal caribbean क्रूज लकीर , हस्ती क्रूज़ और azamara क्रूज़  ) , and the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal ( used by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn , New York .
The West Side Highway  takes a छोटी जोग ईस्ट इससे the पियर to नीचे वेस्ट 42nd गली क्युकी जब the टर्मिनल थी निर्मित जमीन था to  be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers .
The US Army Corps of Engineers , who control the waterfront dimension , would not extend the pierhead  लकीर दूर into the नदी , so the नगर विस्तारित the बांध by कटिंग दूर at the जमीन .
The city earlier did this for the Chelsea Piers ;  however in चेल्सी तभी लैंडफिल थी लिया दूर  .
At the  यात्री टर्मिनल वास्तविक मैनहटन schist थी लिया  away .
इससे डाउनस्ट्रीम in  the river
Many  प्रमुख यात्री जहाजों have docked वहीँ , सहित the rms महारानी मरियम 2 और स्वतंत्रता of the समंदर , पहले  the Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened .
The  ss normandie caught आग और subsequently capsized  at its Pier 88 berth during World War II .
The Normandie , renamed USS Lafayette , lies capsized in  the frozen मिट्टी at बांध 88 in the शीत  of 1942
Norwegian Cruise Line 's soon to be  नवीनतम जलयान the नॉर्वेजियाई breakaway होगा पाल year-round आउट of the नई यॉर्क यात्री  Ship Terminal .
The city will spend $ 4 million to  renovate और उन्नयन the क्रूज टर्मिनल to accommodate the  ship .
This is an overview of the regular ,  पुनरावर्ती , और अन्य वर्ण of the tv  series NCIS .
Christian right is a term used in the United  राज्य to describe right-wing ईसाई राजनैतिक समूह कि हैं characterized by उनके दमदार support of socially  conservative policies .
Christian conservatives principally seek to  लागू उनके समझना of the शिक्षाओं of christianity to राजनीती और पब्लिक नीति by proclaiming the मान of those शिक्षाओं and/or  by seeking to use those teachings to influence law and public policy .
In the U.S. , the Christian right is an informal coalition formed around a core of evangelical  protestants कि draws `` support इससे नीतियां रूढ़िवादी catholics , यहूदियों , mormons , और occasionally secularists '' जो share  their goals .
The movement has its roots in  अमरीकी राजनीती going वापस as दूर the 1940s और रै महरूम  especially influential since the 1970s .
Their influence draws , in  भाग , इससे grassroots सक्रियता as खूब as उनके फ़ोकस on सोशल मुद्दे  and ability to motivate the electorate around those issues .
The Christian right is notable  आज लिये advancing socially रूढ़िवादी स्थितियाँ on मुद्दे सहित स्कूल दुआ , स्टेम कोशिका शोध  , homosexuality , contraception , abortion , and pornography .
Although the Christian  सही is प्रायः संबद्ध साथ the u.S. , the गति रै महरूम a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर in the राजनीती of कनाडा , the नीदरलैंड्स , उत्तरी  Ireland and Australia , among others .
Far East Movement ( stylized as Far★East Movement or abbreviated FM )  is an अमरीकी हिप हॉप बैंड quartet आधारित in  Los Angeles .
The group  formed in 2003 और consists of kev nish ( केविन nishimura ) , prohgress ( जेम्स roh ) , j-splif ( jae  Choung ) , and DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ) .
Far East Movement 's first claim to fame was their song `` Round Round '' featured in the  हॉलीवुड फिल्म , the तेज़ और the क्रोधित : टोकियो बहाव , और इसके subsequent साउंडट्रैक  , video game and DVD .
Since `` Round Round  '' , the समूह रै महरूम प्रदर्शित on विभिन्न संजाल shows सहित , , अनुगामी , गपशप लड़की  , and Finishing the Game ( a featured film at Sundance 2007 ) .
Their single ``  जैसे a g6 `` hit क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट  and on iTunes as well in late October 2010 .
दूर ईस्ट गति भी रै the भेद of होने the पहला asian-american समूह to  earn a # 1 hit on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States .
LR44 is the  आईईसी नामांकन लिये an क्षारीय 1.5 वोल्ट बटन कोशिका , commonly प्रयुक्त in छोटी led flashlights  , digital thermometers , calculators , calipers , watches , clocks , toys and laser pointers .
LR44  क्षारीय कोशिका
The battery nomenclature is defined by the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्युततकनीकी आयोग ( आईईसी ) in इसके 60086-3 मानक ( प्राथमिक बैटरी  , part 3 Watch batteries ) .
The letter L indicates the electrochemical system used ; a  जस्ता ऋणात्मक एलेक्ट्रोड , मैंगनीज डाइऑक्साइड depolarizer और धनात्मक एलेक्ट्रोड , और an क्षारीय electrolyte  .
R44 indicates a round cell  11.4±0.2 mm व्यास और 5.2±0.2 mm ऊँचाई as पारिभाषित by the  IEC standard 60086 .
Manufacturers have their own part numbers for IEC type  lr44 बैटरी including:
lr44 , lr44g , lr44gd  , LR44H
LR1154 , L1154 ,  l1154c , l1154f , l1154g , l1154h
6135-99-792-8475 ( nsn  )
1166a
AG13 , A613 ,  ag14 , ag-14 , g13a ,  G13-A
157 , 303  , 357
A76 , GDA76 , GP76A  , gpa7 , gpa75 , gpa76 , gps76A,
1128MP , 208-904 , A-76 , CA18  , ca19 , cr44 , d76a , ka , ka76 , ms76h , px76a , px675a  , RPX675 , RW82 , SB-F9 , V13GA
4.5-volt , D , C , AA  , aaa , aaaa , a23 , 9-volt , cr2032  and LR44 batteries
Other  प्रकार of बैटरी हैं or यहूद बना  in the R44 size .
Formerly , mercury batteries  यहूद बना as बटन कोशिकाएं  ( types MR44 and NR44 ) .
zinc-air बैटरी प्रकार pr44  require air to work .
silver-oxide बैटरी प्रकार sr44 may provide अतिरिक्त क्षमता compared  to LR44 types but have slightly different voltage characteristics .
Performance of a device meant to  उपयोग a silver-oxide बैटरी may be degraded साथ प्रतिस्थापन  of LR44 types .
Manufacturer 's  संख्याएँ लिये चांदी ऑक्साइड r44 आकार कोशिकाएं  include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240  ( NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
epx76 ( energizer  )
303/357 ( d357h  )
Hurricane  कैटरीना थी the deadliest और सबसे destructive अटलांटिक hurricane of the 2005  Atlantic hurricane season .
It was the costliest  प्राकृतिक विपत्ति , as खूब as एक of the पाँच deadliest hurricanes ,  in the history of the United States .
Among recorded  अटलांटिक hurricanes , it थी the छठे strongest overall  .
At least 1,833 people died in  the hurricane और subsequent floods , बनाना it the deadliest u.S. hurricane चूंकि the 1928 okeechobee hurricane ; कुल प्रॉपर्टी क्षति थी  estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ) , nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992 .
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on August 23  , 2005 और crossed दक्षिणी फ्लोरिडा as a मॉडरेट श्रेणी 1 hurricane , causing कुछ मौतों और बाढ़ वहीँ पहले strengthening rapidly  in the Gulf of Mexico .
The hurricane strengthened to a Category 5  hurricane over the गरम गल्फ जल , लकिन weakened पहले बनाना इसके दूसरी landfall as a श्रेणी 3 hurricane  on the morning of Monday , August 29 in southeast Louisiana .
it caused कठोर विनाश साथ the गल्फ coast इससे सेंट्रल फ्लोरिडा  to Texas , much of it due to the storm surge .
The  सबसे significant क्रमांक of मौतों occurred in नई ऑरलियन्स , louisiana , जिससे flooded as  the levee system catastrophically failed , in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland .
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of  neighboring parishes became flooded , और the floodwaters lingered  for weeks .
However ,  the worst प्रॉपर्टी क्षति occurred in तटीय क्षेत्रों , ऐसे as सब मिसिसिपी beachfront कस्बों , जिससे यहूद flooded over 90 % in घंटों , as नौकाएँ और  casino barges rammed buildings , pushing cars and houses inland , with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach .
The hurricane surge protection failures in New Orleans are  माना the worst सिविल अभियान्त्रिकी विपत्ति in u.S. इतिहास और prompted a मुकदमा विरूद्ध the u.S. फौज corps of इंजीनियर्स (  USACE ) , the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965 .
Responsibility for the failures and flooding was laid squarely on the Army Corps in  जनवरी 2008 by न्यायधीश stanwood डुवल , u.S. ज़िला अदालत , लकिन the संघीय एजेंसी could नहीं be आयोजित financially liable due to sovereign प्रतिरक्षण in  the Flood Control Act of 1928 .
There was also an investigation of the responses from federal , state and local governments , resulting in the  इस्तीफा of संघीय आपात प्रबन्धन एजेंसी ( fema ) निदेशक माइकल D. भूरा , और of नई ऑरलियन्स पुलिस विभाग  ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass .
अनेक एजेंसियों सहित the संयुक्त राज्य coast गार्ड ( uscg ) , नेशनल hurricane बीच  ( NHC ) , and National Weather Service ( NWS ) were commended for their actions .
They provided  सटीक hurricane मौसम ट्रैकिंग forecasts  with sufficient lead time .
Even the  सबसे insistent appeals इससे नेशनल , राज्य और लोकल पब्लिक officials  to residents to evacuate before the storm did not warn that the levees could breach and fail .
U.S.  कर्ज़ इससे 1940 to 2011  .
Red lines indicate  the `` कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक '' और ब्लैक लाइनों indicate the कुल  national debt or gross public debt .
The difference is the `` intragovernmental debt ,  '' जिससे शामिल दायित्वों to सरकारी कार्यक्रम ऐसे as सोशल  Security .
Stated as a  सूत्र , नेशनल कर्ज़ = कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक + intragovernmental  Debt .
The second panel shows the two debt figures  as a प्रतिशत of u.S. जीडीपी ( डालर मान of u.S. आर्थिक उत्पादन लिये कि  year ) .
The top panel is deflated so  प्रत्येक साल is in 2010 डॉलर .
The United States public debt is the money borrowed by the federal government of the United  राज्य through the issuing of प्रतिभूति by the राजकोष और अन्य संघीय सरकारी एजेंसियों  .
US public debt  consists of दो घटकs:
Debt held by the public includes  राजकोष प्रतिभूति आयोजित by निवेशकों बाहर the संघीय सरकारी , सहित कि आयोजित by individuals , corporations ,  the Federal Reserve System and foreign , state and local governments .
Debt held by government accounts  or intragovernmental कर्ज़ शामिल non-marketable राजकोष प्रतिभूति आयोजित in खाते administered by  the federal government that are owed to program beneficiaries , such as the Social Security Trust Fund .
Debt held by government accounts represents the cumulative  surpluses , सहित ब्याज आय , of ये खाते कि have महरूम invested  in Treasury securities .
Public debt increases or  decreases as a परिणाम of the सालाना एकीकृत बजट deficit  or surplus .
The federal government budget deficit or surplus is the  अंतर between सरकारी रसीदें और बिता , ignoring  intra-governmental transfers .
However ,  कुछ बिता कि is excluded इससे the deficit ( supplemental appropriations  ) also adds to the debt .
Historically , the US public debt as  a share of जीडीपी increased दौरान युद्धों और recessions , और subsequently  declined .
For example , debt held  by the पब्लिक as a share of जीडीपी peaked बस बाद संसार युद्ध ii ( 113 %  of GDP in 1945 ) , but then fell over the following 30 years .
In recent  दशकों , however , विशाल बजट deficits और the resulting increases in कर्ज़ have led to चिंता  about the long-term sustainability of the federal government 's fiscal policies .
On 2 April  2013 , कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक थी लगभग $ 11.959 खरब or  about 75 % of GDP .
Intragovernmental holdings stood  at $ 4.846 खरब , giving a संयुक्त कुल पब्लिक कर्ज़  of $ 16.805 trillion .
As of  जनवरी 2013 , $ 5.6 खरब or लगभग 47 % of the कर्ज़ आयोजित by the पब्लिक थी स्वामित्व by विदेशी निवेशकों  , the largest of which were the People 's Republic of China and Japan at just over $ 1.1 trillion each .
In basketball , an assist is attributed to a player who passes the  बॉल to a teammate in a रास्ता कि लीड to a स्कोर by फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य , अर्थ कि he or वो थी `` assisting ''  in the basket .
वहीँ is कुछ निर्णय शामिल in deciding whether a passer  should be credited with an assist .
an assist can be scored लिये the passer भी if the खिलाड़ी जो  receives the pass makes a basket after dribbling the ball .
however , the असली परिभाषा of an assist किया नहीं शामिल ऐसे परिस्थितियों , so  the comparison of assist statistics across eras is a complex matter .
तभी the pass सीधे पहले the स्कोर may be गिने as an assist , so no अधिक than एक  assist can be recorded per field goal ( unlike in other sports , such as ice hockey ) .
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by free  throws करता नहीं गिनती as an assist in the एनबीए , लकिन करता in fiba खेल ( तभी एक assist is awarded प्रति नियत  of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ) .
Point guards tend to get the most assists  प्रति खेल ( apg ) , as उनके भूमिका is primarily कि of a passer  and ballhandler .
Centers tend to get fewer assists , but centers  साथ शुभ मंजिल उपस्थिति और अदालत दृष्टि can dominate a टोली by assisting  .
Being inside the  कुंजी , the बीच प्रायः रै the बेहतरीन कोण और the बेहतरीन स्थिति लिये  `` dishes '' and other short passes in the scoring area .
Center  wilt चेम्बरलेन led the एनबीए in assists  in 1968 .
A strong center with inside-scoring prowess , such as  पूर्व एनबीए बीच hakeem olajuwon , can भी be an प्रभावी assistor क्युकी the रक्षा 's double-teaming tends to खोलें  up offense in the form of shooters .
the एनबीए single-game assist रिकार्ड is 30 , आयोजित by स्कॉट skiles of the  Orlando Magic against the Denver Nuggets , on December 30 , 1990 .
The NBA record for most  करियर assists is आयोजित by जॉन  Stockton with 15,806 .
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK , when discussing property taxes in the United  राज्य , or previously in साइप्रस और माल्टा ) is a now-abstract ईकाई of करेंसी प्रयुक्त sometimes in  accounting .
In the United  राज्य , it is a notional ईकाई समतुल्य to  of a United States dollar ( a tenth of a cent ) .
In the  संयुक्त किंगडम it थी प्रस्तावित दौरान the दशकों of चर्चा on the decimalization of the पाउंड  as a division of the pound sterling .
Several other currencies  प्रयुक्त the मिल , ऐसे as the maltese  lira .
the पद आता इससे the लैटिन `` millesimum '' , अर्थ  `` thousandth part '' .
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often called the Persian Wars )  यहूद a श्रेणी of विरोध between the हख़ामनी साम्राज्य of फारस और city-states of the हैलेनिक  world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC .
The collision  between the fractious राजनैतिक संसार of the यूनानियों और the विशाल साम्राज्य of the फारसियों began जब सायरस the ग्रेट  conquered Ionia in 547 BC .
Struggling to rule the  independent-minded शहरों of ionia , the फारसियों नियुक्त उत्पीड़क  to rule each of them .
This would prove to  be the सोर्स of much ट्रबल लिये the यूनानियों  and Persians alike .
In 499 BC , the then tyrant of Miletus , Aristagoras , embarked on an expedition to conquer the island of Naxos , with Persian support ; however , the expedition was a debacle  और , pre-empting उसके dismissal , aristagoras incited सब of हैलेनिक एशिया नाबालिग into विद्रोह विरूद्ध the फारसियों  .
This was the beginning of the Ionian  विद्रोह , जिससे होता पिछला जबतक 493 bc , progressively आरेखण अधिक regions of एशिया नाबालिग  into the conflict .
Aristagoras secured military support  इससे एथेंस और eretria , और in 498 bc ये शक्तियां helped to कैप्चर और बर्न the पारसी क्षेत्रीय  capital of Sardis .
The Persian  किंग दारा the ग्रेट vowed to have बदला on एथेंस  and Eretria for this act .
The revolt  जारी , साथ the दो पहलू effectively stalemated throughout  497–495 BC .
In 494 BC , the Persians  regrouped , और attacked the epicentre  of the revolt in Miletus .
At the Battle of Lade , the Ionians suffered a decisive defeat  , और the विद्रोह collapsed , साथ the फाइनल सदस्यों होने  stamped out the following year .
Seeking  to सुरक्षित उसके साम्राज्य इससे further revolts और इससे the हस्तक्षेप of the मेनलैंड यूनानियों , दारा embarked on  a scheme to conquer Greece and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis .
The first  पारसी आक्रमण of यूनानियों began in 492 bc , साथ the पारसी सामान्य  Mardonius conquering Thrace and Macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign .
In 490 BC a  दूसरी फ़ोर्स थी भेजा to यूनानियों , इस समय आरपार the ईजियन समुद्र , अंतर्गत the कमांड  of Datis and Artaphernes .
This  expedition subjugated the cyclades , पहले besieging , capturing  and razing Eretria .
however , जबकि en रूट to आक्रमण एथेंस , the पारसी फ़ोर्स थी decisively पराजित  by the Athenians at the Battle of Marathon , ending Persian efforts for the time being .
Darius then began to plan to complete  the conquest of यूनानियों , लकिन died in 486 bc और जिम्मेदारी लिये the conquest passed to उसके बेटे  Xerxes I .
In 480 BC , Xerxes personally led the second  पारसी आक्रमण of यूनानियों साथ एक of the largest प्राचीन सेना  ever assembled .
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by  स्पार्टा और एथेंस ) at the बैटल of thermopylae अनुमत the फारसियों to मशाल  Athens and overrun most of Greece .
However , while seeking to destroy the  संयुक्त यूनानी बेड़े , the फारसियों suffered a कठोर शिकस्त at the बैटल of salamis  .
The following year , the confederated Greeks went on the offensive ,  defeating the पारसी फौज at the बैटल of plataea , और समाप्ति the आक्रमण of  Greece .
The allied Greeks followed up their success by destroying the rest of the Persian fleet at  the बैटल of mycale , पहले expelling पारसी garrisons इससे sestos ( 479 bc ) और  Byzantium ( 478 BC ) .
The actions of the general Pausanias at the siege of Byzantium alienated many of the  यूनानी राज्य इससे the spartans , और the anti-persian गठबंधन थी इसलिए reconstituted around athenian नेतृत्व , as the so-called delian लीग  .
The Delian League continued  to अभियान विरूद्ध फारस लिये the अगला तीन दशकों , शुरूआत साथ the expulsion of the  remaining Persian garrisons from Europe .
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 BC ,  the लीग जीती a दोगुना विजय कि आखिरकार secured स्वतंत्रता  for the cities of Ionia .
However , the League 's involvement in an  मिश्र विद्रोह ( इससे 460–454 bc ) resulted in a विनाशकारी शिकस्त , और further campaigning थी  suspended .
A  बेड़े थी भेजा to साइप्रस in 451 bc , लकिन हासिल छोटी , और जब it  withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a quiet end .
Some historical sources suggest the end of  hostilities थी चिह्नित by a सलाम सन्धि between एथेंस और फारस  , the so-called Peace of Callias .
Hooverville near  पोर्टलैंड , ऑरेगॉन
A ``  hooverville '' is the लोकप्रिय नाम लिये shanty कस्बों निर्मित by बेघर  people during the Great Depression .
They were named after Herbert Hoover , who was President of the United  राज्य दौरान the onset of the अवसाद और widely blamed लिये it .
The term was coined  by चार्ल्स माइकेल्सन , publicity मुख्य of the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी  .
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck (  born सितंबर 25 , 1975 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the इंडियानापोलिस  Colts of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was  drafted in the छठे गोलाकार of the 1998 एनएफएल  Draft by the Green Bay Packers .
After a  ऋतु on the अभ्यास स्क्वाड और दो  seasons backing up Brett Favre , he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001 .
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003 , and led  सिएटल to छह playoff दिखावे और a सुपर कटोरी रूप ; he थी चयनित to तीन प्रो प्याले और an all-pro  selection .
Following ten seasons with  the सीहॉक्स , hasselbeck joined the टेनेसी टाइटन्स in 2011  .
Hasselbeck then signed a contract with the Indianapolis Colts in  2013 कम than 24 घंटों बाद होने released by the टेनेसी टाइटन्स  .
ICT is  inevitably सम्बन्धित to the कंप्यूटर  network .
सूचना और संचार प्रौद्योगिकी or ( आईसीटी ) , is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as an विस्तारित पर्याय लिये सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी ( it ) , लकिन is a अधिक विशिष्ट पद कि तनावों the भूमिका of एकीकृत संचार और the संयोजन  of telecommunications ( telephone lines and wireless signals ) , computers as well as necessary enterprise software , middleware , storage , and audio-visual systems , which enable users to access , store , transmit , and manipulate information .
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s , but it  became लोकप्रिय बाद it थी प्रयुक्त in a रपट to the uk सरकारी by डेनिस stevenson in 1997 और in the संशोधित नेशनल curriculum लिये इंग्लैण्ड  , Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000 .
The term ICT is  अभी भी प्रयुक्त to refer to the अभिसरण of audio-visual और टेलीफोन  networks with computer networks through a single cabling or link system .
There are large economic  प्रोत्साहन ( विशाल लागत बचत due to विलोपन of the टेलीफोन संजाल ) to विलय the audio-visual , भवन प्रबन्धन और टेलीफोन संजाल  with the computer network system using a single unified system of cabling , signal distribution and management .
The term Infocommunications is used in some cases as a  shorter रूप of सूचना और संचार ( s ) प्रौद्योगिकी .
In fact  infocommunications is the विस्तार of दूरसंचार साथ सूचना प्रसंस्करण और सामग्री  handling functions on a common digital technology base .
For a  तुलना of ये और अन्य  terms , see .
For  आईसीटी विकास अनुक्रमणिका around the  world , see .
This is a  सूची of वर्ण इससे जार्ज लोपेज़  .
A schematic presentation of the plum pudding model of the  अणु ; in thomson 's गणितीय मॉडल the `` corpuscles '' ( or आधुनिक  electrons ) were arranged non-randomly , in rotating rings
The current model of the sub-atomic structure  involves a घना केंद्रक घिरी by a probabilistic  `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J.  thomson , जो खोजा the इलेक्ट्रॉन in 1897 , थी प्रस्तावित in 1904 पहले the डिस्कवरी of the परमाणु केंद्रक in अनुक्रम to add the  electron to the atomic model .
In this model , the atom is composed of electrons ( which Thomson still called `` corpuscles '' ,  हालांकि G. J. stoney था प्रस्तावित कि अणु of विद्युत be पुकारा electrons in 1894 ) घिरी by a सूप of धनात्मक चार्ज to संतुलन the electrons ' ऋणात्मक आरोप , जैसे negatively चार्ज `` plums `` घिरी by positively  charged `` pudding `` .
The  electrons ( as we जान उन्हें आज ) यहूद विचार to be positioned throughout the अणु , लकिन साथ अनेक structures संभावित लिये positioning  multiple electrons , particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below ) .
Instead  of a सूप , the अणु थी भी sometimes  said to have had a `` cloud '' of positive charge .
With this  मॉडल , thomson abandoned उसके पहले `` nebular अणु '' परिकल्पना in जिससे the अणु  was composed of immaterial vortices .
Now , at least  भाग of the अणु थी to be रचित of thomson 's particulate ऋणात्मक corpuscles , हालांकि the बाकी of the positively चार्ज  part of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined .
The 1904  thomson मॉडल थी disproved by the 1909 सुनहरा foil प्रयोग  of Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden .
इस थी interpreted  by Ernest Rutherford in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a very high  धनात्मक चार्ज ( in the मामला of सुनहरा , पर्याप्त to संतुलन परिचय 100 electrons ) , यूँ अग्रणी to the रदरफोर्ड  model of the atom .
Although gold has  an परमाणु क्रमांक of 79 , तत्काल बाद रदरफोर्ड 's पेपर appeared in  1911 Antonius Van den Broek made the intuitive suggestion that atomic number is nuclear charge .
the पदार्थ जरूरी प्रयोग  to decide .
Henry Moseley 's work showed  experimentally in 1913 ( देखिए moseley 's विधि ) कि the प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज थी बहुत बंद to the परमाणु क्रमांक ( moseley मिला तभी  one unit difference ) , and Moseley referenced only the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford .
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the same  साल , in जिससे a केंद्रक containing an परमाणु क्रमांक of धनात्मक चार्ज is घिरी  by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells .
Bohr had also  प्रेरित moseley 's कार्य  .
thomson 's मॉडल थी compared ( हालांकि नहीं by thomson  ) to a British dessert called plum pudding , hence the name .
Thomson 's paper was published in the March 1904 edition of the  philosophical पत्रिका , the अग्रणी अंग्रेजों  science journal of the day .
In Thomson 's view : ... the  अणु of the तत्व consist of a क्रमांक of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a गोला  of uniform positive electrification , ...
In this model , the electrons were free to rotate within the  blob or बादल of धनात्मक पदार्थ .
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact that when an electron moved  दूर इससे the बीच of the धनात्मक बादल , it लगा a larger जाल धनात्मक inward फ़ोर्स , क्युकी वहीँ थी अधिक सामग्री of विपरीत चार्ज , अंदर  its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ) .
In Thomson 's model  , electrons यहूद फ़्री to घूर्णन in बजती जिससे यहूद further stabilized by interactions between the electrons , और  spectra were to be accounted for by energy differences of different ring orbits .
Thomson  attempted to मेक उसके मॉडल खाता लिये कुछ of the प्रमुख spectral लाइनों  known for some elements , but was not notably successful at this .
Still , Thomson 's model ( along with a similar Saturnian ring model  लिये परमाणु electrons , भी put आगे in 1904 by nagaoka बाद जेम्स क्लर्क मैक्सवेल 's मॉडल of शनि 's  rings ) , were earlier harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom .
Typical  स्ट्रिप of बेकन .
बेकन is a cured मांस prepared  from a pig .
It is first cured using large quantities of salt , either in a brine  or in a शुष्क पैकिंग ; the परिणाम is भैस बेकन ( भी ज्ञात as ग्रीन बेकन  ) .
Fresh bacon may then be further  सूखी लिये सप्ताह or महीने in ठंडा एयर , or it may be boiled or स्मोक्ड  .
Fresh and dried bacon  is typically पकाया पहले खाने  .
boiled बेकन is तैयार to खा , as is कुछ स्मोक्ड बेकन , लकिन may  be cooked further before eating .
Bacon is  prepared इससे अनेक अलग कटौती of  meat .
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork ,  मगर in the संयुक्त राज्य , जहाँ it is लगभग सदा prepared इससे पोर्क पेट ( typically referred to as `` streaky '' ,  `` fatty '' , or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ) .
The  पक्ष काटें रै अधिक मांस और कम  fat than the belly .
Bacon may be prepared from either of two  पृथक वापस कटौती : fatback , जिससे is लगभग pure मोटे , और पोर्क  loin , which is very lean .
Bacon-cured  पोर्क loin is ज्ञात as वापस बेकन  .
Uncooked pork belly  बेकन स्ट्रिप्स  .
Bacon may be eaten smoked , boiled  , fried , baked , or ग्रील्ड , or प्रयुक्त as a नाबालिग संघटक to स्वाद बर्तन  .
Bacon is also used for  barding और larding roasts , विशेषकर खेल , e.g . venison  , pheasant .
The word is derived from the Old High German bacho , meaning ``  buttock '' , `` हैम '' or `` पक्ष of बेकन '' , और cognate साथ the बूढ़ा  French bacon .
In continental Europe , this part of the pig is usually not smoked like bacon is in the United States ; it  is प्रयुक्त primarily in घन ( lardons ) as a कुकिंग संघटक , valued दोनो as a सोर्स of मोटे और लिये  its flavor .
In Italy , this is called  pancetta और is प्रायः पकाया in छोटी घन or परोसा uncooked  and thinly sliced as part of an antipasto .
Meat from other animals , such as beef , lamb , chicken , goat , or turkey , may  भी be काटें , cured , or वरना prepared to resemble बेकन , और may भी be  referred to as `` bacon '' .
Such use is common in areas with  significant यहूदी और मुस्लिम populations  .
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured belly of a swine carcass  '' ; अन्य कटौती और विशेषताएँ जरूर be separately योग्य ( e.g. , `` स्मोक्ड पोर्क loin बेकन  '' ) .
For safety , bacon must  be treated to prevent trichinosis , caused by trichinella , a parasitic roundworm जिससे  can be destroyed by heating , freezing , drying , or smoking .
Bacon is distinguished from  नमक पोर्क और हैम by मतभेद in the  brine ( or dry packing ) .
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients , most notably sodium  नाइट्राइट , और occasionally सोडियम नाइट्रेट or पोटैशियम नाइट्रेट ( साल्टपीटर ) ; सोडियम ascorbate or erythorbate हैं added to accelerate  curing and stabilize color .
flavorings ऐसे as भूरा शुगर or मेपल  are used for some products .
If used  , सोडियम polyphosphates हैं added to improve sliceability और  reduce spattering when the bacon is pan fried .
Today , a brine for  हैम , लकिन नहीं बेकन , शामिल a विशाल  amount of sugar .
Historically , `` ham  '' और `` बेकन '' referred to अलग कटौती of मांस कि यहूद brined  or packed identically , often together in the same barrel .
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (  erisa ) ( , संहिताबद्ध in भाग at ) is a संघीय विधि जिससे establishes न्यूनतम मानकों लिये पेंशन योजनाएँ in निजी उद्योग और provides लिये extensive नियम on the  federal income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans .
ERISA was enacted to protect the  रूचि of कर्मचारी लाभ योजना भागीदार और उनके  beneficiaries by:
requiring the प्रकटीकरण of वित्तीय और अन्य सूचना concerning  the plan to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of  conduct लिये योजना fiduciaries ;
providing लिये उचित  remedies and access to the federal courts .
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full body  of कानून regulating कर्मचारी लाभ योजनाएँ , जिससे हैं मिला मुख्यतः in the आतंरिक आय कोड और  ERISA itself .
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided among the Department of  मजदूर , the विभाग of the राजकोष ( विशेषकर the आतंरिक आय सेवा ) , और the पेंशन लाभ  Guaranty Corporation .
Illegal immigration to the United States is the act of foreign nationals entering the United States , without government permission and in violation of United  राज्य राष्ट्रीयता विधि , or रहकर परे the termination तिथि of a वीज़ा , भी in  violation of the law .
A warning sign  at the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary between the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा  in Point Roberts , Washington .
A much  अलग दृष्टिकोण at the u.s.-mexico किनारा निकट  El Paso , Texas
The undocumented immigrant  जनसांख्यिकी of the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 थी अनुमानित by the बीच लिये आव्रजन अध्ययन to be परिचय 11 लाख लोगों , bas इससे 12.5 लाख लोगों in 2007  .
Other  estimates दायरा इससे 7  to 20 million .
According to a  2005 pew हिस्पैनिक बीच रपट , 56 % of undocumented आप्रवासियों यहूद इससे मैक्सिको ; 22 % यहूद इससे अन्य लैटिन अमरीकी देशों ; 13 % यहूद  from Asia ; 6 % were from Europe and Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world .
Alvin Independent School  ज़िला is a स्कूल ज़िला आधारित in एल्विन , टेक्सास  ( USA ) .
Alvin ISD is a  विशाल suburban स्कूल ज़िला दक्षिण of ह्यूस्टन in the समुदायों of एल्विन , manvel  , Pearland , Hillcrest , Rosharon , Iowa Colony , Liverpool , and Amsterdam .
AISD serves Pearland city 's  rapidly growing पश्चिमी portion of the नगर सहित the नई विशाल master-planned समुदायों of छाया क्रीक ranch , दक्षिण  Fork , and Southern Trails .
एल्विन isd कवर  of land .
In human  anatomy , the ulnar तंत्रिका is a तंत्रिका जिससे रनों  near the ulna bone .
the ulnar collateral स्नायु of कोहनी  joint is in relation with the ulnar nerve .
The nerve is the largest  unprotected तंत्रिका in the इंसान देह ( अर्थ unprotected by मांसपेशी  or bone ) , so injury is common .
This nerve is directly connected to the little  उंगली , और the सटा हाफ of the रिंग उंगली , supplying the palmar पक्ष of ये उंगलियाँ , सहित दोनो सामने  and back of the tips , perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds .
एक विधि of injuring the तंत्रिका is to स्ट्राइक the medial epicondyle  of the humerus from posteriorly , or inferiorly with the elbow flexed .
The  ulnar तंत्रिका is फंस between the अस्थि और the overlying स्किन at  this point .
This is  commonly referred to as bumping एक 's ``  funny bone '' .
This name is thought to be a pun , based on  the ध्वनि प्रतिरूप between the नाम of the अस्थि of the अपर भुजा , the `` humerus  `` and the word `` humorous `` .
alternatively , according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष it may refer to ``  the peculiar sensation experienced when it is struck '' .
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , shortened Hogwarts , is a fictional British  स्कूल of जादू लिये विद्यार्थी aged ग्यारह to अठारह , और is the प्राथमिक सेटिंग लिये the पहला छह किताबे in j.K. रोलिंग 's हैरी कुम्हार  series .
रोलिंग रै सुझाया कि वो may have inadvertently लिया the नाम इससे the hogwort संयंत्र ( croton capitatus ) , जिससे वो था देखी at kew gardens कुछ  time before writing the series , although the names `` The Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans .
Hogwarts school was  voted as the 36th बेहतरीन स्कॉटिश शैक्षणिक स्थापना in a 2008 ऑनलाइन  ranking , outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School .
According to a director of the  स्वतंत्र स्कूलों संजाल rankings , it थी added to the स्कूलों लिस्टिंग  `` for fun '' and was then voted on .
The U.S. subprime mortgage crisis was a set of events and conditions  कि led to a वित्तीय संकट और subsequent मंदी कि began in 2008  .
it थी characterized by a वृद्धि in subprime बंधक delinquencies और foreclosures  , and the resulting decline of securities backed by said mortgages .
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September  2008 , साथ significant disruption in the प्रवाह of क्रेडिट to व्यवसायों और उपभोक्ता और the onset  of a severe global recession .
There were many causes of the crisis , with commentators  assigning अलग स्तर of दोष to वित्तीय संस्थानों , regulators , क्रेडिट एजेंसियों , सरकारी आवास नीतियों , और उपभोक्ता  , among others .
A proximate cause  थी the वृद्धि in subprime lending  .
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a given year rose from the  ऐतिहासिक 8 % or निम्नतर दायरा to लगभग 20 % इससे 2004 to 2006 , साथ much उच्चतर ratios in कुछ भाग  of the U.S .
A high  प्रतिशत of ये subprime mortgages , over 90 % in 2006 लिये  example , were adjustable-rate mortgages .
These  दो परिवर्तन यहूद भाग of a broader ट्रेंड of lowered lending मानकों  and higher-risk mortgage products .
Further , U.S. households had become  increasingly ऋणी , साथ the अनुपात of कर्ज़ to डिस्पोजेबल निजी आय उठती इससे 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the  end of 2007 , much of this increase mortgage-related .
When U.S. home prices declined  steeply बाद peaking in mid-2006 , borrowers ' क्षमता to  refinance their loans became more difficult .
As  adjustable-rate mortgages began to रीसेट at उच्चतर ब्याज दरों ( causing उच्चतर  monthly payments ) , mortgage delinquencies soared .
Securities backed with  mortgages , सहित subprime mortgages , widely आयोजित by वित्तीय firms  globally , lost most of their value .
Global investors also drastically reduced  purchases of mortgage-backed कर्ज़ और अन्य प्रतिभूति as भाग of a मनाही in the क्षमता और willingness of the निजी  financial system to support lending .
Concerns about the soundness of  u.S. क्रेडिट और वित्तीय बाज़ार led to tightening क्रेडिट around the संसार  and slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe .
The crisis had severe ,  long-lasting consequences लिये the u.S.  and European economies .
The  u.S. डाला a गहन मंदी , साथ nearly 9 लाख कार्य खोया  during 2008 and 2009 , roughly 6 % of the workforce .
U.S.  आवास कीमतें गिरी nearly 30 % on औसत और the  U.S. stock market fell approximately 50 % by early 2009 .
As of early 2013 , the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but  आवास कीमतें remained निकट उनके कम पाइंट और बेरोजगारी  remained elevated .
आर्थिक विकास remained नीचे pre-crisis  levels .
Europe  भी जारी to संघर्ष साथ इसके  own economic crisis .
Carl Jung  in 1910  .
Myers  और briggs extrapolated उनके mbti सिद्धान्त इससे जंग 's कृतियाँ in उसके  book Psychological Types .
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI )  मूल्यांकन is a psychometric प्रश्नावली designed to माप  psychological preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions .
These  वरीयताओं यहूद extrapolated इससे the typological theories प्रस्तावित by कार्ल गुस्ताव जंग और पहला प्रकाशित in उसके 1921  book Psychological Types ( English edition , 1923 ) .
जंग theorized कि वहीँ हैं चार प्रिंसिपल मनोवैज्ञानिक कृत्यों by जिससे we अनुभव  the world : sensation , intuition , feeling , and thinking .
One of these four  कृत्यों is प्रबल सबसे of the समय  .
The original developers of the personality inventory were Katharine Cook Briggs and  उसके बेटी , इसाबेल briggs मायर्स ; ये दो , having पढ़ाई extensively the कार्य of जंग , turned उनके ब्याज of इंसान बर्ताव into a भक्ति of turning the सिद्धान्त of मनोवैज्ञानिक  types to practical use .
They began  बनाना the indicator दौरान संसार युद्ध ii , believing कि a ज्ञान of व्यक्तित्व वरीयताओं  would help women who were entering the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective '' .
The  आरंभिक प्रश्नावली grew into the myers-briggs प्रकार  Indicator , which was first published in 1962 .
The MBTI focuses on normal populations and  emphasizes the मान of naturally occurring  differences .
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI  is कि we सब have विशिष्ट वरीयताओं in the रास्ता we construe हमारी अनुभवों , और ये वरीयताओं underlie हमारी रूचि , needs , मान , और  motivation '' ( p. 499 ) .
`` Judas '' is a  सोंग by अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार महिला गागा , इससे उसके दूसरी  studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ) .
It was released by Interscope Records on April 15 ,  2011 , चार दिनों ahead of इसके अनुसूचित रिलीज  .
Written and  उत्पादित by महिला गागा और redone , `` यहूदा ''  is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her .
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga  in the पास्ट , और इसके कोर अर्थ refers to the ऋणात्मक भाग of उसके  life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga  रै further समझाया कि the सोंग थी भी परिचय honoring एक  's inner darkness in order to bring oneself into the light .
the कलाकृति लिये the सिंगल थी  designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups , the  सोंग थी generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों , जो likened the सोंग to `` ख़राब रोमांस `` साथ कुछ noting it चाहिए have महरूम the एल्बम  's lead single .
The song has a similar sound to  गागा 's पिछला redone-produced ट्रैक्स , सहित `` पोकर फेस `` , `` lovegame `` , `` ख़राब रोमांस  '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains  तीन पृथक hooks और a हाउस -influenced ब्रेक  down .
Gaga explained that the lines  बोला दौरान the विश्लेषण बात परिचय उसके as परे मोचन , regarding the  traditional views of what a woman should be .
`` Judas '' initially had a  दमदार बिक्री खोलने , लकिन थी कम कामयाब commercially in तुलना  to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song reached the top ten of the  चार्ट in सबसे प्रमुख म्यूज़िक बाज़ार , और भी पहुँचे the शीर्ष of  the charts in South Korea .
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011 ,  co-directed by गागा और laurieann गिब्सन और co-starring नॉर्मन reedus  .
It  रै a biblical कथानक जहाँ reedus निभाई यहूदा  Iscariot and Gaga played Mary Magdalene .
The  वीडियो portrays उन्हें as आधुनिक दिन प्रचारकों going  to Jerusalem .
It included the Biblical story of  यहूदा betraying यीशु , और ended साथ गागा as magdalene  getting stoned to death .
Before its release , the Catholic  लीग condemned गागा लिये the कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक  imagery and her role in the video .
However , critics generally  praised the वीडियो , नहीं ढूंढना कोई अप्रिय  content .
The video was nominated  लिये दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 एमटीवी वीडियो  Music Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows , including The Graham Norton Show ,  शनिवार रात्रि सजीव , शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '' , the फ्रेंच x फ़ैक्टर as खूब as on the एलेन degeneres दिखाएँ .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 , 1939April 1 , 1984 ) , born Marvin  pentz gay , jr. , थी an अमरीकी singer-songwriter  and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits  सहित `` कैसा मीठी it is ( to be loved by तुम ) `` और `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम कुएं और tammi terrell , बाद कमाई the शीर्षक `` प्रिंस  of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s ,  gaye अंकित the अवधारणा एल्बम कया 's going on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the  first artists in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company .
Gaye 's  बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे अनेक r & b subgenres ऐसे  as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the  जल्दी 1980s , gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning hit `` यौन healing  `` and the Midnight Love album .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye has been posthumously honored by many  संस्थानों , सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल  of Fame .
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of  गति चित्र कला और sciences ( ampas ) to निर्माता working in the गति चित्र उद्योग और is the तभी श्रेणी in जिससे प्रत्येक सदस्य is योग्य to मनोनीत  for .
Best Picture is  माना the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण of the अकादमी पुरस्कार , as it represents सब the directing , एक्टिंग , म्यूज़िक composing , लिखने ,  editing and other efforts put forth into a film .
Consequently , Best Picture is the  फाइनल पुरस्कार और the निष्कर्ष of the सालाना अकादमी पुरस्कार  ceremony .
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles , where the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held  चूंकि 2002 , शोकेस प्रत्येक फिल्मी कि रै जीती the बेहतरीन चित्र शीर्षक चूंकि the पुरस्कार 's inception 85 सालो पहले .
Heavy  बरसात is an इंटरैक्टिव नाटक action-adventure वीडियो खेल निर्मित by फ्रेंच डेवलपर quantic  Dream exclusively for the PlayStation 3 .
the खेल is लिखा और निर्देशित by quantic  Dream 's founder and CEO David Cage .
Heavy Rains story is a dramatic thriller  modelled बाद फिल्मी noir , featuring चार protagonists शामिल साथ the रहस्य of the origami कातिल , a सीरियल कातिल  who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims .
Ethan Mars is trying to save his  बेटे इससे होने the अगला शिकार , जबकि investigative पत्रकार मैडिसन paige , एफबीआई profiler नॉर्मन jayden , और निजी जासूस स्कॉट शेल्बी हैं प्रत्येक trying  to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity .
The player interacts with the game by performing actions  highlighted on स्क्रीन सम्बन्धित to motions on the नियंत्रक , और in कुछ मामले ,  performing a series of quick time events during fast-paced action sequences .
the खिलाड़ी 's निर्णय और क्रियाएँ दौरान the खेल  will affect the narrative .
The  प्रमुख वर्ण can be मारे , और निश्चित क्रियाएँ may सीसे to अलग  scenes and endings .
A  playable डेमो थी released  on 11 February 2010 .
The demo was  released prior to इस तिथि लिये लोगों जो took भाग in a चार दिन चुनौती on 5 फ़रवरी  2010 .
A patch to allow use of the  प्लेस्टेशन मूव नियंत्रक to खेल the खेल थी released in सितंबर 2010  .
Heavy Rain  थी critically acclaimed और  has sold over two million copies .
It won  2010 's खेल of the साल इससे सीएनएन और गेमिंग संघ , और बेहतरीन  PS3 Game of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN .
A modified version of the game was released  titled भारी बरसात संस्करण modifiée exclusively in फ़्रांस , aimed towards  a younger audience .
In 2010 , the game  थी शामिल in the किताब 1001 वीडियो खेल  You Must Play Before You Die .
Total  superannuation उद्योग देनदारी : सदस्यों निधि और  reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988 .
सालाना कुल superannuation  industry asset growth 1996-2005 .
Superannuation in Australia refers  to the इंतजाम जिससे लोगों मेक in ऑस्ट्रेलिया to have निधि उपलब्धियाँ  for them in retirement .
In Australia , superannuation  इंतजाम हैं government-supported और प्रोत्साहित , और न्यूनतम प्रावधानों  are compulsory for employees .
For example , employers are required to pay a proportion  of an कर्मचारी 's salaries और मजदूरी ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation निधि , लकिन लोगों हैं प्रोत्साहित to put aside अतिरिक्त निधि into superannuation  .
The minimum  दायित्व जरूरी by नियोक्ता is नियत to बढ़ाएँ to 12 % धीरे stepping  annually from 2013 to 2020 .
An individual can  withdraw निधि आउट of a superannuation निधि जब the व्यक्ति meets एक of the शर्तें of रिलीज contained in अनुसूची 1 of the  Superannuation Industry ( Supervision ) Regulations 1994 .
This is a list  of the वर्ण इससे the अमरीकी comedy-drama  television series The Game .
Electoral College map  प्रर्दशित the परिणाम of the 2012 u.S. अध्यक्षीय  election .
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the  लोकप्रिय vote in 26 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया ( denoted in ब्लू ) to कैप्चर 332 चुनावी  votes .
Former Governor Mitt Romney  ( r - ma ) जीती the लोकप्रिय vote in 24 राज्य ( denoted in रेड ) to कैप्चर 206 चुनावी मत  .
Cartogram representation of the Electoral  कॉलेज vote लिये the 2012 चुनाव , साथ प्रत्येक वर्गाकार representing  one electoral vote .
the संयुक्त राज्य चुनावी कॉलेज is the संस्था कि officially elects the अध्यक्ष  and Vice President of the United States every four years .
The President and  वाइस अध्यक्ष हैं नहीं निर्वाचित सीधे by the मतदाता  .
Instead , they are elected by `` electors '' who are  चुनी by लोकप्रिय vote on a state-by-state आधार  .
Electors are  apportioned to प्रत्येक राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , लकिन नहीं to territorial possessions  of the United States , such as Puerto Rico and Guam .
the क्रमांक of निर्वाचक in प्रत्येक राज्य is बराबर  to the number of members of Congress to which the state is entitled .
The Twenty-third  amendment रै सदा resulted in the ज़िला of कोलंबिया  having three electors .
There are 538 electors , based on there being 435  प्रतिनिधि और 100 सीनेटरों , प्लस the तीन निर्वाचक इससे the ज़िला of कोलंबिया  .
Electors are pledged to  particular अध्यक्षीय और वाइस अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार , हालांकि unpledged  electors are possible .
In all states , except Maine and Nebraska ,  निर्वाचक हैं निर्वाचित on a `` winner-take-all  '' basis .
That is , all electors  pledged to the अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी जो विन्स the सबसे  votes in a state become electors for that state .
Maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district method '' , selecting one elector within each congressional  ज़िला by लोकप्रिय vote और selecting the बाकी दो निर्वाचक by a राज्यव्यापी लोकप्रिय  vote .
Although  no elector is जरूरी by संघीय विधि to सम्मान a प्रतिज्ञा , वहीँ have  only been very few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a pledge .
The Twelfth  amendment specifies कैसा a अध्यक्ष और वाइस अध्यक्ष हैं निर्वाचित और requires  each elector to cast one vote for President and another vote for Vice President .
आलोचकों argue कि the चुनावी कॉलेज is inherently undemocratic और देता झूले राज्य अनुपातहीन  influence in electing the President and Vice President .
the चुनावी कॉलेज देता a न्यूमेरिक लाभ in the चुनाव of the अध्यक्ष to the छोटी राज्य , as the  minimum number of electors for the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives .
On the other hand  , the winner-take-all विधि of मतदान favors  the larger states .
A number of constitutional amendments have  महरूम प्रस्तावित seeking to alter the चुनावी कॉलेज or बदलें it  with a direct popular vote .
Barack Hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4 , 1961 ) is the 44th  और वर्तमान अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , the पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to  hold the office .
Born in Honolulu  , हवाई , ओबामा is a ग्रैजुएट of कोलंबिया विश्वविद्यालयों और  Harvard Law School , where he was president of the Harvard Law Review .
He was a  जातियाँ आयोजक in शिकागो पहले  earning his law degree .
He  worked as a सिविल अधिकारों attorney in शिकागो और सिखाया संवैधानिक  law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004 .
He served three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois  सीनेट इससे 1997 to 2004 , कार्यशील unsuccessfully लिये the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस  of Representatives in 2000 .
In 2004 , Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the  संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट साथ उसके विजय in the कूच लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी प्राथमिक , उसके keynote पता at the  Democratic National Convention in July , and his election to the Senate in November .
He began his presidential campaign in 2007 ,  और in 2008 , बाद a बंद प्राथमिक अभियान विरूद्ध हिलेरी rodham क्लिंटन , he जीती sufficient delegates in  the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination .
He then defeated Republican nominee John McCain in the general  चुनाव , और थी उदघाटन as अध्यक्ष on जनवरी 20 , 2009  .
Nine months later , Obama was  नामित the 2009 नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार laureate  .
He was re-elected president in November 2012 ,  defeating रिपब्लिकन nominee mitt romney , और थी sworn in लिये a दूसरी पद on जनवरी  20 , 2013 .
जल्दी in उसके पहला पद in दफ्तर , ओबामा हस्ताक्षरित into विधि आर्थिक stimulus विधान in जवाब to the ग्रेट मंदी  in the form of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Tax Relief , Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization , and Job Creation Act of 2010 .
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient Protection  और सस्ती परवाह अधिनियम , प्रायः referred to as `` obamacare '' ; the dodd–frank वॉल गली सुधार और उपभोक्ता सुरक्षा अधिनियम ; the do n't पूछो , do n't बताना repeal अधिनियम of 2010 ; the बजट  Control Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 .
In May 2012 , he became the first sitting U.S. president to publicly support same-sex  विवाह और in 2013 उसके प्रशासन दायर briefs जिससे urged the परम् अदालत to नियम in एहसान of same-sex युगल in दो high-profile मामले .
In foreign policy , Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War , increased troop levels  in अफगानिस्तान , हस्ताक्षरित the नई प्रारंभ बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ रूस , ordered u.S. सैन्य भागीदारी in लीबिया , और ordered the सैन्य आपरेशन कि resulted in the  death of Osama bin Laden .
The Honda CBR1100XX Super  blackbird थी a होंडा मोटरसाइकिल बना इससे 1996  to 2007 .
The bike was developed to  चुनौती the कावासाकी निंजा zx-11 as the संसार 's तीव्रतम उत्पादन मोटरसाइकिल , और होंडा succeeded  with a top speed of .
Two years later the  शीर्षक passed to the suzuki hayabusa , जिससे  reached .
The  blackbird is नामित बाद the लॉकहीड sr-71 , भी  a speed record holder .
Sample view of an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड आधारित  on images
नमूना दृश्य of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a  व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य सूचना परिचय व्यक्तिगत मरीजों or populations  .
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically  सक्षम of होने साझा आरपार अलग स्वास्थ्य परवाह जमावट  .
In some  मामले इस sharing can occur by रास्ता of network-connected enterprise-wide  information systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may  शामिल a दायरा of आंकड़ा , सहित जनसांख्यिकी , चिकित्सा इतिहास , दवा और allergies , immunization  status , laboratory test results , radiology images , vital signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing information .
The Mariner up  on the mast in a तूफ़ान  .
One of the  wood-engraved illustrations by gustave  Doré .
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner  ( originally the rime of the ancyent marinere ) is the longest प्रमुख कविता by the अंग्रेज़ी कवि सैमुएल टेलर कॉलरिज , लिखा in 1797–98 और प्रकाशित  in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads .
आधुनिक संस्करण उपयोग a बाद संशोधित संस्करण मुद्रित in 1817  that featured a gloss .
Along with other poems in Lyrical Ballads , it was a signal  शिफ़्ट to आधुनिक काव्य और the शुरूआत of अंग्रेजों रोमांटिक साहित्य  .
A proxy auto-config (  pac ) संचिका defines कैसा वेब browsers और अन्य उपयोक्ता एजेंटों can automatically चुनें the उचित प्रॉक्सी सर्वर  ( access method ) for fetching a given URL .
A PAC file contains a JavaScript  फलन “findproxyforurl ( url ,  host ) ” .
This function  रिटर्न a स्ट्रिंग साथ एक or अधिक अभिगम  method specifications .
ये विशेषताएँ कारण the उपयोक्ता एजेंट to उपयोग a  particular proxy server or to connect directly .
Multiple specifications provide a fall-back  जब a प्रॉक्सी fails to respond  .
The browser fetches this  pac संचिका पहले requesting अन्य यूआरएल  .
The URL of  the pac संचिका is either विन्यस्त हस्तचालित or संकल्पित automatically by  the Web Proxy Autodiscovery Protocol .
Zendaya  कोलमैन ( born सितंबर 1 , 1996 ) , ज्ञात mononymously as zendaya  , is an American actress , singer and dancer .
she  सितारों on the डिज़्नी चैनल sitcom शेक it up  as Rocky Blue .
She has starred in  दो films और निभाई एक of the सीसे भूमिकाएँ  in the film Frenemies as Halley Brandon .
वो voiced फर्न in the pixie  Hollow Games .
She appeared in Good Luck Charlie  as रॉकी ब्लू और in a शुभ लक चार्ली और शेक it up क्रॉसओवर शीर्षक चार्ली शेक it  Up .
She  appeared on prankstars as herself in the एपीसोड `` चलना the शरारत '' और  on A.N.T . Farm as Sequoia Jones in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT . ''
zendaya is भी a संगीतकार  .
She signed a deal with Hollywood  रिकॉर्ड on अगस्त 8 , 2012 और प्रारंभ रिकॉर्डिंग गीतों लिये उसके डेब्यू एल्बम on अगस्त  12 , 2012 .
She released a single from an independent label called `` Swag It Out  `` और another सिंगल साथ बेला thorne पुकारा `` देखें me , '' जिससे  is featured on the Break It Down album .
On March 20 , 2012 ,  zendaya और बेला thorne released an एल्बम साथ पुकारा शेक it up : सजीव 2 नृत्य , प्रत्येक have उनके अपना सोंग on it , साथ साथ  a mash-up of both songs together as one .
On  अगस्त 21 , 2012 , zendaya और बेला thorne released  an EP called Shake It Up : Made In Japan .
Zendaya has a Christmas song called ``  शेक सांता शेक , '' जिससे is on the डिज़्नी चैनल अवकाश प्लेलिस्ट cd , जिससे  was released on October 2 , 2012 .
On March 5 , 2013 the third Shake It Up soundtrack was released , entitled I < 3 Dance ; on it , Zendaya has two songs with Bella - ``  संक्रामक प्रेम '' और `` इस is my नृत्य मंजिल '' - as खूब as एक सोलो सोंग , `` ताल of my ढोल  . ''
This is a list of  एयरपोर्ट in पेन्सिलवेनिया ( a u.S. राज्य ) , grouped by  type and sorted by location .
It contains all  public-use और सैन्य एयरपोर्ट in the  state .
Some  private-use और पूर्व एयरपोर्ट may be शामिल जहाँ notable , ऐसे as एयरपोर्ट कि यहूद previously public-use  , those with commercial enplanements recorded by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code .
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc .  originally released in 2007 लिये the iphone और ipod टच प्लेटफ़ॉर्म , it रै महरूम विस्तारित to support अन्य ठहराना डिवाइस ऐसे as the ipad और ठहराना tv .
Unlike Microsoft 's  खिड़कियाँ फोन और google 's एंड्रॉइड , ठहराना करता नहीं अनुज्ञा आईओएस लिये संस्थापना  on non-Apple hardware .
, Apple 's App Store  contained अधिक than 700,000 आईओएस अनुप्रयोग , जिससे have collectively महरूम डाउनलोड  more than 30 billion times .
it था a 21 % share of the स्मार्टफोन मोबाईल ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली इकाई shipped in  the fourth quarter of 2012 , behind only Google 's Android .
In June 2012 , it accounted for 65 % of mobile  वेब आंकड़ा खपत ( सहित उपयोग on दोनो the ipod टच  and the iPad ) .
At  the हाफ of 2012 , वहीँ यहूद 410  million devices activated .
According to the special media event held by Apple  on सितंबर 12 , 2012 , 400 लाख डिवाइस have महरूम बेची through  June 2012 .
The user interface of  आईओएस is आधारित on the अवधारणा of सीधा हेरफेर , using  multi-touch gestures .
Interface  कंट्रोल तत्व consist of sliders , switches  , and buttons .
Interaction with the OS  शामिल इशारों ऐसे as swipe , tap , पिंच , और रिवर्स पिंच , सब of जिससे have विशिष्ट परिभाषाएं भीतर the कॉन्टेक्स्ट  of the iOS operating system and its multi-touch interface .
Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to respond to  shaking the यंत्र ( एक आम परिणाम is the undo कमांड ) or घूर्णन it in तीन आयाम ( एक आम परिणाम is switching इससे  portrait to landscape mode ) .
आईओएस is निकला इससे os x , साथ जिससे it  shares the Darwin foundation .
iOS is Apple 's mobile version  of the os x ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली प्रयुक्त on ठहराना कंप्यूटर  .
In iOS , there are four abstraction layers : the  कोर os परत , the कोर सेवाएं परत , the मीडिया परत , और  the Cocoa Touch layer .
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the  यंत्र 's फ्लैश मेमोरी लिये the प्रणाली विभाजन , using roughly 800 mb of कि विभाजन ( varying by मॉडल )  for iOS itself .
iOS currently  रनों on iphone , ipad , ipod टच और ठहराना  TV .
The Plymouth Superbird is  प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके अत्यधिक ऊँची पश्च  wing .
1987 Audi Sport QuattroS1  साथ इसके विशाल विंग्स at pikes  Peak
a बिगाड़ने is an ऑटोमोटिव aerodynamic यंत्र जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन फलन is to 'spoil ' प्रतिकूल एयर गति आरपार a देह  of a vehicle in motion , usually described as turbulence or drag .
Spoilers on  the सामने of a गाडी हैं प्रायः पुकारा एयर dams , क्युकी in जोड to directing एयर प्रवाह वे भी reduce the राशि of एयर बहती underneath  the vehicle which generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag .
Spoilers are often fitted  to रेस और high-performance खेल गाड़ियाँ , हालांकि वे have become आम on यात्री  vehicles as well .
Some spoilers are added  to गाड़ियाँ primarily लिये स्टाइलिंग उद्देश्य और have either छोटी aerodynamic  benefit or even make the aerodynamics worse .
विघ्न लिये गाड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः incorrectly उलझन साथ , or the पद प्रयुक्त  interchangeably with , wings .
Automotive wings are devices  जिनकी intended डिज़ाइन is to generate downforce as एयर गुजरता around उन्हें , नहीं  simply disrupt existing airflow patterns .
Mario , who serves as Nintendo 's  शुभंकर , is a fictional अक्षर निर्मित by खेल पंक्तियां शिगेरू miyamoto और voiced by चार्ल्स  Martinet .
This is a list of video games where the character Mario plays a part , either as  the समर्थक , विपक्षी , supporting अक्षर , as भाग of an ensemble डाल , as a कैमियो , or in a खेल भीतर  a game .
It does not include simple references to the character , such as the portraits of Mario  मिला in the लेजेंड of zelda : a कड़ी to the  Past .
The year indicated is the year the game was  पहला released , सबसे commonly in जापानी ; खेल  were sometimes released years later in other regions of the world .
The  सूची शामिल पोर्ट , remakes और  compilations .
It  करता n't शामिल कोई आभासी कंसोल  re-releases .
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I Am A Man of Constant Sorrow '' ) is a traditional American  लोक सोंग पहला अंकित by लंड burnett , a partially अँधा  fiddler from Kentucky .
The song was originally  अंकित by burnett as `` विदाई सोंग '' मुद्रित in a रिचर्ड  Burnett songbook , circa 1913 .
An  जल्दी संस्करण थी अंकित by emry  Arthur in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ) .
Public interest in the song was renewed after the  रिलीज of the 2000 फिल्मी o bhai , जहाँ आर्ट  Thou ?
, as it  plays a सेंट्रल भूमिका in the फिल्मी  's plot .
The  सोंग थी भी शामिल in the फिल्मी 's अत्यधिक कामयाब , multiple-platinum  selling soundtrack .
Josephson junction array chip developed by  the नेशनल ब्यूरो of मानकों as a मानक  volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the SI derived unit for  इलेक्ट्रिक संभावित ( वोल्टेज ) , इलेक्ट्रिक संभावित अंतर , और विद्युतवाहक  force .
The volt is named in honor of the Italian  physicist alessandro volta ( 1745–1827 ) , जो invented the वोल्टायिक  pile , possibly the first chemical battery .
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip (  चित्र लिया in 1987 , पहले कदम यहूद removed in 1992 और प्लैक बदला  from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the  साराजेवो हत्या ( चित्र लिया  in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , heir presumptive  to the austro-hungarian सिंहासन , और उसके बीवी , सोफी , duchess of hohenberg , यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो , by gavrilo princip , एक of a समूह of छह बोस्नियाई  Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the assassination was to break off  austria-hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be संयुक्त into a वृहद सर्बिया or a यूगोस्लाविया  .
The  हत्यारे ' motives यहूद सतत साथ the गति कि  later became known as Young Bosnia .
सर्बियाई सैन्य अधिकारियों stood पीछे  the attack .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin  dimitrijević , उसके righthand man प्रमुख vojislav tankosić , और masterspy rade malobabić  .
Major Tankosić armed the  हत्यारे साथ बम और pistols और प्रशिक्षित उन्हें  .
The assassins were given access to the same  clandestine टनल of safe-houses और एजेंटों कि rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ  of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the key members of the clandestine tunnel , and the key  सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों जो यहूद स्टिल जिंदा यहूद गिरफ्तार , आजमाया , convicted और punished .
Those who were arrested in  बोस्निया यहूद आजमाया in साराजेवो in अक्तूबर  1914 .
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo  अदालत on the french-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated गलत आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया तीन  of the top military conspirators .
Much of what  is ज्ञात परिचय the assassinations आता इससे ये  two trials and related records .
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly  विवादास्पद क्युकी the आक्रमण led to the outbreak of संसार युद्ध i एक माह  later .
मिशन सैन जुआन capistrano थी a स्पेनी मिशन in दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , located in present-day San Juan Capistrano .
it थी संस्थापित on सब संतो ' दिन नवम्बर  1 , 1776 , by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan Order .
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano , a 15th century theologian and  `` योद्धा पुजारी '' जो resided in the abruzzo प्रदेश of इटली , सैन जुआन capistrano रै the भेद of होने घर  to the oldest building in California still in use , a chapel built in 1782 .
Known alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel '' and `` Father Serra 's Church , '' it is the only extant structure where  it रै महरूम प्रलेखित कि the padre junipero सेरा मनाये  mass .
One of the  बेहतरीन ज्ञात of the alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया मिशन ( और एक of the few मिशन to have दरअसल महरूम संस्थापित twice—others  being Mission San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ) .
The site was originally consecrated on  अक्तूबर 30 , 1775 , by पिता fermín lasuén , लकिन थी जल्दी abandoned  due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego .
The success of  the उपनिवेश is evident in इसके ऐतिहासिक  records .
Prior to the arrival of the  प्रचारकों , कुछ 550 natives यहूद बिखरे throughout the  local area .
By 1790 , the number of converted  ईसाइयों था grown to 700 , और बस छह सालो बाद nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( हाल converts  ) lived in or around the Mission compound .
1,649 baptisms were conducted that year alone ,  आउट of the कुल 4,639 souls परिवर्तित between 1776 और 1847  .
More than 2,000 former inhabitants (  ज़्यादातर juaneño इंडियंस ) हैं दफ्न in unmarked क़ब्रों in the मिशन  's cemetery ( campo santo ) .
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. John  o'sullivan , जो पहचाना the प्रॉपर्टी 's ऐतिहासिक मान और working tirelessly to conserve और rebuild इसके structures , हैं दफ्न  at the entrance to the cemetery on the west side of the property , and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt .
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at the Mission : Fathers José  barona , विसेंट fustér , और विसेंट पास्कुआल oliva हैं सब entombed beneath the अभयारण्य  floor .
The Criolla or `` Mission grape , '' was first planted  at सैन जुआन capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783 , the पहला वाइन उत्पादित in alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया उभरा इससे the मिशन 's वाइनरी  .
The  मिशन डाला a long काल of क्रमिक मनाही  after secularization in 1833 .
Numerous efforts were made over the  सालो to restore the मिशन to इसके पूर्व महिमा , लकिन none मिले साथ ग्रेट कामयाबी जबतक the आगमन of पिता  O'Sullivan in 1910 .
बहाली प्रयत्न continue , और `` सेरा 's चैपल '' is स्टिल  used for religious services .
About  half-a-million विज़िटर , सहित 80,000 स्कूल children  , come to the Mission each year .
And while the ruins of ``  the ग्रेट स्टोन गिरिजाघर '' ( जिससे थी सब लकिन leveled by an 1812 भूकंप ) हैं a प्रसिद्ध architectural अचरज , the मिशन is शायद बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये the  annual `` Return of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed every March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's Day ) .
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a favorite  विषय लिये अनेक notable कलाकारों , और रै महरूम immortalized in साहित्य और on फिल्मी numerous  times , perhaps more than any other mission .
In 1984 , a modern church complex was constructed  बस उत्तर और वेस्ट of the मिशन यौगिक और is अभी ज्ञात as मिशन basilica  San Juan Capistrano .
Today , the mission  यौगिक serves as a संग्रहालय , साथ the सेरा चैपल भीतर the यौगिक सेवारत  as a chapel for the mission parish .
Better Off Dead is a  1985 अमरीकी टीन रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी अभिनीत जॉन cusack और लिखा और  directed by Savage Steve Holland .
it tells the स्टोरी of ऊँची स्कूल छात्र लेन myer  who is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him .
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally Louisiana Superdome  और commonly the superdome ) is a खेल और प्रदर्शनी स्टेडियम , स्तिथ in the सेंट्रल कारोबार ज़िला of नई ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana , USA .
योजनाएँ यहूद drawn up in 1967 , by the नई ऑरलियन्स modernist architectural  firm of Curtis and Davis .
Its  स्टील फ़्रेम कवर a  expanse .
Its dome is made of a  lamella multi-ringed फ़्रेम और रै a व्यास of , बनाना  it the largest fixed domed structure in the world .
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints , the NCAA 's Division I-A Tulane Green Wave  फ़ुटबॉल टोली ( the largest फ़ुटबॉल स्टेडियम in सम्मेलन यूएसए ) , the राज्य फार्म bayou क्लासिक , the r+l वाहक नई ऑरलियन्स कटोरी , the allstate  Sugar Bowl and , every fourth year , the BCS National Championship Game .
Because of the size and location  in एक of the प्रमुख पर्यटक गंतव्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य , the superdome routinely makes the `` छोटी सूची '' of  candidates being considered for major sporting events , such as the Super Bowl and the Final Four .
In 2005 , the Superdome gained international attention of a  अलग प्रकार जब it housed हज़ारों of लोगों seeking आश्रय इससे hurricane कैटरीना  .
the भवन suffered extensive क्षति as a परिणाम of  the storm , and was closed for many months afterward .
On October 3 , 2011 , it  थी घोषित कि जर्मनी automaker mercedes-benz खरीदा नामकरण अधिकारों  to the stadium .
the नई नाम took प्रभाव  on October 23 , 2011 .
It is the third stadium  कि रै नामकरण अधिकारों इससे mercedes-benz ( और पहला in the संयुक्त राज्य ) , बाद the mercedes-benz एरिना , the स्टेडियम of bundesliga क्लबों vfb stuttgart ,  in Stuttgart , Germany and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai , China .
लॉबी of जम्बो  House
जिराफ़ on the savannah at  Jambo House
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is an African-themed  डीलक्स रिज़ॉर्ट at the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी संसार रिज़ॉर्ट .
It  खोली on अप्रैल  16 , 2001 .
The resort is owned and  संचालित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी पार्क और रिसॉर्ट  .
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in the  एनिमल किंगडम रिज़ॉर्ट क्षेत्रफल , सटा to डिज़्नी 's एनिमल  Kingdom .
It gives  अतिथि the अवसर to दृश्य चरने वन्यजीव बाहर उनके कक्ष और पब्लिक क्षेत्रों in the  resort within proximity of the animals , conveying the feeling of being in an African savanna .
The People 's Party , also known as the `` Populists '' , was a short-lived political party in  the संयुक्त राज्य स्थापित in 1891 दौरान the populist गति ( संयुक्त राज्य , 19th सदी )  .
It was  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण in 1892-96 , और तब  rapidly faded away .
Based among poor , white cotton farmers in the  दक्षिण ( विशेषकर उत्तर कैरोलिना , अलबामा , और टेक्सास ) और hard-pressed गेहूं किसानो in the मैदान राज्य ( विशेषकर कान्सास और नेब्रास्का ) , it represented a कट्टरपंथी crusading रूप of agrarianism  and hostility to banks , railroads , and elites generally .
It sometimes formed  coalitions साथ मजदूर संघ , और in 1896 the डेमोक्रेट endorsed उनके  presidential nominee , William Jennings Bryan .
The terms `` populist '' and ``  populism `` हैं commonly प्रयुक्त लिये anti-elitist appeals in विपक्ष to स्थापित रूचि और मुख्यधारा  parties .
भाषाई मैप of सीरियल , कैमरून  , and Benin .
Sign in English , outside the  विश्वविद्यालयों of लागोस
There are hundreds  of भाषाएं बोला in सीरियल  .
the प्रमुख भाषाएं हैं योरूबा , हौसा , इग्बो ,  Edo , Fulfulde , Kanuri , and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria , English , the  पूर्व औपनिवेशिक भाषा , थी चुनी to सुकर the सांस्कृतिक और भाषाई एकता of the  country .
English , however , remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's urban elite , and  is नहीं widely बोला in ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों , जिससे comprise तीन quarters of the देशों जनसांख्यिकी  .
Nigeria 's  भाषाई विविधता is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे , encompassing तीन प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं  families : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
Nigeria also has several  as-yet unclassified भाषाएं , ऐसे as cen tuum , जिससे may represent a relic of an भी वृहद विविधता  prior to the spread of the current language families .
A  श्रेणी of कार्यक्रम led to the आक्रमण  on Pearl Harbor .
War between Japan and the United States  था महरूम a सम्भावना कि प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's सैन्य शक्तियां नियोजित लिये चूंकि the 1920s , हालांकि रियल टेंशन किया  not begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan .
Over the next decade , Japan  विस्तारित धीरे into चीन , अग्रणी to सब आउट  war between the two in 1937 .
In 1940 Japan invaded  फ्रेंच इंडोचायना in an प्रयत्न to embargo सब imports into चीन , सहित  war supplies purchased from the U.S .
This move  prompted the संयुक्त राज्य to embargo सब आयल निर्यात , अग्रणी the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी to अनुमान कि it था कम than  two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the existing plans to seize oil resources in the Dutch East Indies .
Planning had been  underway लिये कुछ समय on an आक्रमण on the `` दक्षिणी संसाधन क्षेत्रफल '' to add it to the वृहद  East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific .
The Philippine islands , at that time an American  territory , यहूद भी a जापानी  target .
the जापानी सैन्य concluded कि an आक्रमण of  the Philippines would provoke an American military response .
Rather than seize and fortify the islands , and wait for the inevitable US counterattack , Japan 's military leaders  बजाय decided on the pre-emptive पर्ल हार्बर आक्रमण , जिससे वे assumed होता negate the अमरीकी शक्तियां needed लिये the मुक्ति और  reconquest of the islands .
Planning for the  आक्रमण था begun in बहुत जल्दी 1941 , by admiral  Isoroku Yamamoto .
He finally won assent from the  नवल ऊँची कमांड by , among अन्य बाते , threatening  to resign .
The attack was approved in the summer at  an इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन और again at a दूसरी सम्मेलन in the  fall .
Simultaneously over the year  , पायलटों यहूद प्रशिक्षित , और जहाजों prepared लिये  its execution .
Authority for the attack was granted at the  दूसरी इम्पीरियल सम्मेलन if a राजनयिक परिणाम संतोषजनक to  Japan was not reached .
After final approval by Emperor Hirohito the order  to आक्रमण थी जारी at the शुरूआत of दिसम्बर .
A common  दफ्तर stapler
A  आम स्कूल  stapler
A stapler is  a mechanical यंत्र कि joins चादरें of पेपर or समान सामग्री by ड्राइविंग  a thin metal staple through the sheets and folding the ends .
Staplers are widely  प्रयुक्त in सरकारी , कारोबार , कार्यालयों  , homes and schools .
The word `` stapler '' can actually  refer to a क्रमांक of अलग डिवाइस of varying  uses .
In addition to joining paper sheets together , staplers can also be used in a surgical setting to join  ऊतक साथ साथ सर्जिकल स्टेपल्स to बंद a सर्जिकल घाव ( much in the वही रास्ता as टांके or sutures  ) .
Typically ,  सबसे staplers हैं प्रयुक्त to जुड़ें अनेक चादरें of पेपर  .
Paper staplers come in two  पृथक प्रकार : हस्तचालित और इलेक्ट्रिक  .
हस्तचालित staplers हैं सामान्यतः hand-held , हालांकि मॉडल कि हैं  used while set on a desk or other surface are not uncommon .
Electric staplers  मौजूद in a किस्में of अलग डिजाइन और  models .
Their primary operating  फलन is to जुड़ें विशाल संख्याएँ of पेपर चादरें  together in rapid succession .
Some  इलेक्ट्रिक staplers can जुड़ें up to  20 sheets at a time .
Swallowing , known scientifically as deglutition , is the process in  the इंसान or एनिमल देह कि makes कुछ pass इससे the मुँह , to the pharynx , और into the ग्रासनाल ,  while shutting the epiglottis .
If this  fails और the ऑब्जेक्ट goes through the श्वासनली , तब choking  or pulmonary aspiration can occur .
In the human body it is  नियंत्रित by the swallowing reflex  .
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4 , 1792 –  अगस्त 11 , 1868 ) , of पेन्सिलवेनिया , थी a नेता of the कट्टरपंथी रिपब्लिकन  faction of the Republican Party and a fierce opponent of slavery .
he थी एक of the सबसे influential सदस्यों  in the history of Congress .
As chairman of the powerful House Ways  और अर्थात् कमेटी , स्टीवंस , a witty , व्यंग्यात्मक स्पीकर और flamboyant पार्टी नेता , वर्चस्व the हाउस इससे 1861  until his death .
He wrote much of the  वित्तीय विधान कि सशुल्क लिये the अमरीकी  Civil War .
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner  यहूद the प्रधान नेताओ of the कट्टरपंथी republicans दौरान the युद्ध और पुनर्निर्माण  era .
Scholarly views of Stevens have  swung sharply चूंकि उसके मौत as interpretations of पुनर्निर्माण  have changed .
Historians of the Dunning School (  1890s–1940s ) आयोजित स्टीवंस जिम्मेदार लिये demanding हर्ष उपचार of the श्वेत दक्षिण और violating अमरीकी परंपराओं of republicanism ,  depicting Stevens as a villain for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates .
This  अत्यधिक ऋणात्मक characterization  held sway into the 1950s .
The rise of the neo-abolitionist  स्कूल in the 1950s led to a दमदार धनात्मक सराहना of स्टीवंस ' कार्य on सिविल अधिकारों  for Freedmen .
A recent biographer characterizes him as , `` The Great  commoner , रक्षक of फ़्री पब्लिक शिक्षा in पेन्सिलवेनिया , नेशनल रिपब्लिकन नेता in the struggles विरूद्ध गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य और intrepid mainstay of the attempt to सुरक्षित  racial justice for the Freedmen during Reconstruction , the only member of the House of Representatives ever to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress . ''
Overview  of the अनुवाद of eukaryotic  messenger RNA
आरेख प्रर्दशित the अनुवाद of mrna और the  synthesis of proteins by a ribosome
In molecular biology and genetics ,  अनुवाद is the प्रक्रम through जिससे सेल्यूलर  ribosomes manufacture proteins .
It  is भाग of the प्रक्रम of  gene expression .
In translation , messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by transcription is decoded by the  राइबोसोम to उपज a विशिष्ट अमीनो एसिड कड़ी , or polypeptide , कि होगा  later fold into an active protein .
In bacteria ,  अनुवाद occurs in the कोशिका 's कोशिकाद्रव्य , जहाँ the  large and small subunits of the ribosome are located , and bind to the mRNA .
In  eukaryotes , अनुवाद occurs आरपार the  membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial synthesis .
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing  the बाइंडिंग of trnas साथ पूरक anticodon sequences  to that of the mRNA .
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids  कि हैं chained साथ into a polypeptide as the mrna गुजरता through और is `` पढ़ा '' by the  ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock ticker and ticker tape .
In many  उदाहरण , the संपूर्ण ribosome/mrna जटिल बांधता to the बाहरी झिल्ली of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum और रिलीज  the nascent protein polypeptide inside for later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell .
Many types of transcribed RNA , such as  ट्रांसफ़र rna , ribosomal rna , और छोटी नाभिकीय rna , do नहीं undergo अनुवाद into प्रोटीन .
Translation proceeds in four phases : initiation , elongation , translocation and termination (  सब describing the विकास of the अमीनो एसिड कड़ी , or polypeptide कि is the  product of translation ) .
अमीनो acids हैं brought to ribosomes और समवेत  into proteins .
In activation , the correct  अमीनो एसिड is covalently बंधुआ to the सही ट्रांसफ़र  RNA ( tRNA ) .
The  अमीनो एसिड is joined by इसके carboxyl समूह to the 3 ' oh of the trna by an ester  bond .
जब the trna रै an अमीनो  acid linked to it , it is termed `` charged '' .
Initiation  involves the छोटी subunit of the राइबोसोम बाइंडिंग to the 5 ' समाप्त of mrna साथ  the help of initiation factors ( IF ) .
termination of the polypeptide happens जब the a साईट of the राइबोसोम  faces a stop codon ( UAA , UAG , or UGA ) .
No tRNA can  recognize or bind to इस codon  .
Instead , the stop codon induces the binding of a release  फ़ैक्टर प्रोटीन कि prompts the disassembly of the  entire ribosome/mRNA complex .
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting  अनुवाद ; ये शामिल anisomycin , cycloheximide , chloramphenicol , tetracycline , streptomycin , erythromycin  , and puromycin , among others .
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic ribosomes , and  यूँ एंटीबायोटिक can specifically निशाना बैक्टीरियल infections बगैर कोई detriment to a eukaryotic मेजबान  's cells .
A  मल्टीमीडिया संदेश on a मोबाईल फोन  .
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS ) is a standard way to send  संदेश कि शामिल मल्टीमीडिया सामग्री to और इससे मोबाईल फोन  .
It extends the core SMS ( Short  संदेश सेवा ) काबिलियत कि अनुमत एक्सचेंज of टेक्स्ट संदेश तभी  up to 160 characters in length .
The most popular  उपयोग is to भेजें छायाचित्र इससे camera-equipped handsets , हालांकि it is भी लोकप्रिय as a विधि of delivering न्यूज और entertainment सामग्री  including videos , pictures , text pages and ringtones .
The standard is developed by the Open  मोबाईल गठबंधन ( ओमो ) , हालांकि दौरान विकास it थी भाग of the 3gpp  and WAP groups .
Smallpox was an  संक्रामक बीमारी अद्वितीय to इंसानो , caused by either of दो वायरस विसंगतियाँ , variola प्रमुख  and Variola minor .
the बीमारी is भी ज्ञात by the लैटिन names variola or variola  vera , derived from varius ( `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ) .
The disease  थी originally ज्ञात in अंग्रेज़ी as the `` चेचक '' or `` रेड प्लेग '' ; the पद `` smallpox '' थी पहला  used in Britain in the 15th century to distinguish variola from the `` great pox '' ( syphilis ) .
The last naturally  occurring मामला of smallpox ( variola नाबालिग ) थी diagnosed on 26 अक्तूबर  1977 .
Smallpox  स्थानीयकृत in छोटी रक्त बरतन of the स्किन और in the मुँह  and throat .
In the skin it  resulted in a characteristic maculopapular खाज और , बाद  , raised fluid-filled blisters .
V.  प्रमुख produces a अधिक गंभीर बीमारी और  has an overall mortality rate of 30–35 % .
V.  नाबालिग कल्याणकारी a milder रूप of बीमारी ( भी ज्ञात as alastrim , cottonpox , milkpox  , whitepox , and Cuban itch ) which kills about 1 % of its victims .
Long-term complications of V. major infection  शामिल characteristic scars , commonly on the फेस , जिससे occur in 65–85 % of survivors  .
Blindness resulting from corneal  ulceration और scarring , और limb deformities due to गठिया और osteomyelitis हैं कम आम  complications , seen in about 2–5 % of cases .
Smallpox is believed to  have उभरा in इंसान populations परिचय 10,000 bc  .
The earliest physical evidence of it is  संभवतः the pustular खाज on the mummified देह of pharaoh ramses  V of Egypt .
The disease killed an estimated  400,000 europeans annually दौरान the closing सालो of the 18th सदी ( सहित पाँच reigning monarchs ) ,  and was responsible for a third of all blindness .
Of all  those संक्रमित , 20–60 % —and over 80 % of संक्रमित  children—died from the disease .
Smallpox was  जिम्मेदार लिये an अनुमानित 300–500 लाख मौतों  during the 20th century .
As recently as 1967 , the World Health Organization  ( जो ) अनुमानित कि 15 लाख लोगों contracted the बीमारी और कि दो लाख died in  that year .
After  टीकाकरण अभियान throughout the 19th और 20th सदियां  , the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979 .
smallpox is एक of दो संक्रामक रोगों to have महरूम eradicated , the अन्य होने  rinderpest , which was declared eradicated in 2011 .
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' is a song  by the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड the बीटल्स  .
लिखा by जॉन लेनन और पॉल mccartney , और अंकित in अक्तूबर 1963 , it थी the पहला  Beatles record to be made using four-track equipment .
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom ,  `` i want to थाम अपना हाथ '' होता साधारणतया have गए सीधा to the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों रिकार्ड चार्ट on इसके दिन of रिलीज ( 29 नवम्बर 1963 ) था it नहीं महरूम अवरोधित by the समूह 's पहला लाख विक्रेता `` वो loves  You `` , the Beatles ' previous UK single , which was having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the group .
Taking two weeks to  dislodge इसके पूर्ववर्ती , `` i want to थाम अपना हाथ '' ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये  five weeks and remained in the UK top fifty for twenty-one weeks in total .
It was also the group 's first American number one , entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on  18 जनवरी 1964 at क्रमांक forty-five और starting the अंग्रेजों आक्रमण of the अमरीकी म्यूज़िक  industry .
By 1 February it held the number one spot — for seven weeks  — पहले होने replaced by `` वो loves तुम '' , a रिवर्स परिदृश्य of कया था occurred in ब्रिटेन , और remained in the us चार्ट लिये a कुल  of fifteen weeks .
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand ''  became the बीटल्स ' best-selling सिंगल  worldwide .
A gasser was a type of hot rod originating on the  dragstrips of the संयुक्त राज्य in the लेट 1950s और जारी जबतक the जल्दी  1970s .
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s , which have been stripped of  extraneous वज़न और jacked up using a ट्रक बीम धुरी to provide बेहतर वज़न वितरण on त्वरण ( बीम axles हैं भी हल्का than an स्वतंत्र सामने बर्खास्तगी  ) , though a raised stock front suspension is common as well .
Common weight reduction techniques include  fiberglass देह panels , stripped इंटीरियर्स और plexiglass  windows ( sometimes color tinted ) .
Because they were primarily built for racing , these cars  typically था the इंजन swapped to a larger or अधिक शक्तिशाली एक , the मौजूदा भण्डार  engine modified ( often heavily ) or both .
It was very  आम to अनुरूप a जड़ें supercharger और mechanical ईंधन इंजेक्शन  , such as one from Algon , Hilborn , or Crower .
With form being dictated by function , their appearance is often  बहुत शीर्ष भारी और ungainly , largely due to सामने ends होने उठाया उच्चतर than भण्डार , to assist in the वज़न ट्रांसफ़र दौरान  rapid acceleration ( racing ) .
Having their exhaust pipes exit through the front fender well is a  आम characteristic of gassers , as is having लाशें चित्रित in flamboyant metalflakes , मोती , और कैंडी finishes complemented by lettering in जंगली  fonts .
The name arose  क्युकी वे competed in a गैसोलीन -fueled खीचें रेसिंग क्लास  , rather than one using methanol or nitromethane .
The gasser is  the पूर्ववर्ती of the आधुनिक मजेदार car  .
Twelve-lead  ईकेजी of a 26-year-old  male
electrocardiography ( ईसीजी or ईकेजी इससे ) is a transthoracic ( आरपार the वक्ष or छाती ) निर्वचन of the विद्युत कार्यकलाप of the दिल over a काल of समय , as  detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the skin and recorded by a device external to the body .
The  रिकॉर्डिंग उत्पादित by इस noninvasive कार्यविधि is  termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ) .
An ECG is used to measure the rate and regularity of heartbeats , as well as the size and  स्थिति of the कक्षों , the उपस्थिति of कोई क्षति to the दिल , और the प्रभाव of दवाएँ or डिवाइस प्रयुक्त to विनियमित the दिल , ऐसे  as a pacemaker .
Most ECGs are performed for diagnostic or  शोध उद्देश्य on इंसान दिल , लकिन may भी be performed on पशु , प्रायः लिये निदान of दिल abnormalities  or research .
Donald John Trump  , sr. ( born जून 14 , 1946 ) is an अमरीकी  business magnate , television personality and author .
He is the chairman and  अध्यक्ष of the ट्रम्प संगठन और the संस्थापक of ट्रम्प entertainment रिसॉर्ट  .
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle , outspoken  manner , और भूमिका on the एनबीसी वास्तविकता दिखाएँ the प्रशिक्षु have बना उसे a well-known हस्ती  who was No . 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list .
ट्रम्प is the बेटे of फ्रेड ट्रम्प ,  a wealthy New York City real-estate developer .
He worked for his father 's  कड़ , एलिज़ाबेथ ट्रम्प & बेटे , जबकि उपस्थित the व्हार्टन स्कूल of the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Pennsylvania , and in 1968 officially joined the company .
He was given control of the  कम्पनी in 1971 और renamed it the ट्रम्प संगठन  .
In 2010 , Trump expressed an interest in  बनने a प्रत्याशी लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य in the 2012 चुनाव , हालांकि in may 2011 , he घोषित he होता  not be a candidate .
In December 2011 , Trump was suggested as a possible  वाइस अध्यक्षीय चयन by मिशेल bachmann , if वो यहूद to जीत the  Republican nomination .
`` A Change Is Gon na  आइये '' is a 1964 सिंगल by r & b singer-songwriter sam cooke , लिखा और पहला अंकित in 1963 और released अंतर्गत the  RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964 .
हालांकि तभी a modest hit लिये cooke in तुलना साथ उसके पिछला singles  , the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement .
The song has gained in popularity and  नाजुक acclaim in the दशकों चूंकि इसके रिलीज , और is # 12 on रोलिंग स्टोन 's 500 महानतम  Songs of All Time .
Steam rising  इससे the nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन in  Iceland .
Geothermal energy is  थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न और भंडारित in the  Earth .
थर्मल उर्जा is the उर्जा कि determines  the temperature of matter .
The Geothermal  उर्जा of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 % ) और इससे रेडियोसक्रिय  decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is  the अंतर in तापमान between the कोर of the ग्रह और इसके सतह , ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of थर्मल उर्जा in the रूप  of heat from the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal  originates इससे the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge ) , अर्थ धरती , और θερμος ( thermos )  , meaning hot .
At the core of the Earth , thermal energy  is निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय और temperatures may पहुँचें over  5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ) .
ऊष्मा conducts इससे the कोर to surrounding  cooler rock .
The high  तापमान और दबाव कारण कुछ चट्टान to melt , बनाना मैग्मा संवहन upward  since it is lighter than the solid rock .
The magma  heats चट्टान और जल in the क्रस्ट , sometimes  up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ) .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for  स्पेस हीटिंग चूंकि प्राचीन रोमन टाइम्स , लकिन it is अभी बेहतर ज्ञात लिये विद्युत पीढी  .
Worldwide , about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power  is ऑनलाइन in 24 देशों  .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct  geothermal हीटिंग क्षमता is संस्थापित लिये ज़िला हीटिंग , स्पेस हीटिंग , स्पा , औद्योगिक प्रक्रियाओं , desalination और agricultural  applications .
Geothermal power is cost  प्रभावी , विश्वसनीय , चिरस्थायी , और environmentally दोस्ताना , लकिन रै historically  been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent  technological अग्रिम have dramatically विस्तारित the दायरा और आकार of सुगठित संसाधन , विशेषकर  for applications such as home heating , opening a potential for widespread exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases  फंस गहन भीतर the धरती , लकिन ये emissions हैं much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा ईकाई than those  of fossil fuels .
As a  परिणाम , geothermal शक्ति रै the संभावित to सहायता mitigate वैश्विक वार्मिंग if widely  deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's  geothermal संसाधन हैं theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to सप्लाई मानवता 's उर्जा  needs , but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and  खोजी लिये गहन संसाधन is बहुत महंगी  .
Forecasts for the  भविष्य of geothermal शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी , उर्जा कीमतें ,  subsidies , and interest rates .
पायलट कार्यक्रम जैसे eweb 's ग्राहक ऑप्ट in ग्रीन शक्ति कार्यक्रम दिखाएँ कि ग्राहक होता be willing to अदा a छोटी अधिक लिये a  renewable energy source like geothermal .
But as a result  of सरकारी assisted शोध और उद्योग अनुभव , the लागत of generating  geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades .
In  2001 , geothermal उर्जा लागत between  two and ten cents per kwh .
Ownership of property may be  निजी , सामूहिक , or आम और the प्रॉपर्टी  may be objects , land/real estate , or intellectual property .
Determining ownership in law  involves determining जो रै निश्चित अधिकारों और कर्तव्य over the  property .
These rights and duties  , sometimes पुकारा a 'bundle of अधिकारों ' , can be अलग और आयोजित by अलग  parties .
The  सवाल of स्वामित्व पहुँच वापस to the प्राचीन  philosophers , Plato and Aristotle , who held different opinions on the subject .
Plato ( 428/427  bc – 348/347 bc ) विचार निजी प्रॉपर्टी निर्मित divisive inequalities , जबकि अरस्तू ( 384 bc – 322 bc )  thought private property enabled people to receive the full benefit of their labor .
Private property can  circumvent कया is अभी referred to as the “ त्रासदी of the कॉमन्स ” प्रॉब्लम , जहाँ लोगों tend to रुसवा  common property more than they do private property .
Given a short-sighted owner , however , a private property system can make these tragedies  worse—for उदाहरण , a निजी मालिक of a टुकड़ा of oil-rich प्रॉपर्टी , depending on उसके worldview , might be अधिक दिलचस्पी in short-term वित्तीय लाभ than वृद्धिशील उपयोग साथ an नजर toward अन्य 's चिंताएं ( e.g.  , those of future generations , the disenfranchised , etc . ) .
While Aristotle justified the existence of private ownership , he left open questions of ( 1 )  कैसा to allocate प्रॉपर्टी between कया is निजी और आम और ( 2 ) कैसा to allocate the निजी प्रॉपर्टी भीतर  society .
Over the millennia , and across  संस्कृतियों कया can be प्रॉपर्टी और कैसा it is regarded culturally  have varied widely .
Ownership is the basis for many other concepts  कि रूप the मूलाधार of प्राचीन और आधुनिक समाजों ऐसे as धन , व्यापार , कर्ज़ , दिवालियापन  , the criminality of theft , and private vs. public property .
Ownership is  the कुंजी भवन ब्लाक in the विकास of the पूंजीवादी  socio-economic system .
Adam  स्मिथ stated कि एक of the पवित्र कानून of इंसाफ थी to गार्ड a  person 's property and possessions .
The  प्रक्रम और यांत्रिकी of स्वामित्व हैं fairly जटिल : एक can लाभ  , transfer and lose ownership of property in a number of ways .
To acquire property one can purchase it with money ,  व्यापार it लिये अन्य प्रॉपर्टी , प्राप्त it as a तोहफा , चोरी it , ढूँढें it  , make , it or homestead it .
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money , exchanging it for other property , giving it as a  तोहफा , होने robbed of it , it , or having it stripped इससे एक 's स्वामित्व through विधिक अर्थात् ऐसे as eviction ,  foreclosure , seizure , or taking .
स्वामित्व is self-propagating in कि the मालिक of कोई प्रॉपर्टी होगा भी  own the economic benefits of that property .
`` What 's My Name ? ''  is a सोंग अंकित by barbadian रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार रिहाना , लिये उसके  fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ) .
Featuring guest vocals  इससे कनाडाई rapper ड्रेक , the सोंग थी released as the दूसरी सिंगल  from Loud on October 29 , 2010 through Def Jam Recordings .
The R & B song was produced by the Norwegian  उत्पादन duo स्टारगेट , और थी लिखा by the duo साथ साथ ester  Dean , Traci Hale , and Drake .
Lyrically , it incorporates themes  of यौन मैथुन और रोमांस  .
म्यूज़िक आलोचकों दिया the सोंग धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ , citing it कुछ of रिहाना 's बेहतरीन गायन कार्य to तिथि ; वहीँ थी  a praise regarding its romantic nature , as well as its sexual tones .
`` What 's My Name ? '' was a commercial success and topped the US Billboard  hot 100 चार्ट , giving रिहाना उसके तीसरा number-one सिंगल in 2010 , as खूब as उसके आठवीं  overall on the chart .
The song also topped the  चार्ट in हंगेरियाई और the संयुक्त किंगडम और पहुँचे the शीर्ष पाँच in कनाडा  , Ireland , New Zealand , Norway and Slovakia .
The song received a nomination at the  54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन rap/sung सहयोग  .
An accompanying music video , directed by Philip Andelman , portrays a romantic  एनकाउंटर between रिहाना और ड्रेक in a किराना स्टोर साथ साथ रोमांटिक दृश्यों between the जोड़ी और रिहाना चलना  through Manhattan 's Lower East Side .
`` What 's My  नाम ? '' थी प्रचारित साथ सजीव प्रदर्शन आरपार दोनो पहलू of the अटलांटिक  , including Saturday Night Live in America and the series seven finale of The X Factor in the United Kingdom .
The latter performance resulted in an  छानबीन इससे the देश 's मीडिया नियामक , ofcom  , for the raunchy nature of Rihanna 's outfit .
A  गणितीय निरंतर is a खास क्रमांक , प्रायः a रियल क्रमांक , कि  is `` significantly interesting in some way '' .
Constants  उठता in अनेक अलग क्षेत्रों of गणित , साथ स्थिरांक ऐसे as e ( गणितीय निरंतर ) | और pi| occurring  in such diverse contexts as geometry , number theory and calculus .
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '' ,  और कया makes a निरंतर `` दिलचस्प '' , is ultimately a पदार्थ of स्वाद  , and some mathematical constants are notable more for historical reasons than for their intrinsic mathematical interest .
The  अधिक लोकप्रिय स्थिरांक have महरूम पढ़ाई throughout  the ages and computed to many decimal places .
All  गणितीय स्थिरांक हैं definable संख्याएँ और प्रायः हैं भी computable संख्याएँ ( chaitin  's constant being a significant exception ) .
Elections to the United States  सीनेट यहूद आयोजित on नवम्बर 2 , 2010 , लिये 37 of the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट 's  100 seats .
( A special election on January  19 , 2010 in मैसाचुसेट्स थी आयोजित पहले in the  year . )
Thirty-four of the seats were for six-year terms to the Senate  's `` क्लास तीन '' , और तीन यहूद खास चुनावों लिये  shorter terms .
Of the 37 elections , 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or  यहूद पराजित in the प्राथमिक ) और 18 प्रदर्शित लाज़िम republicans ( आठ of जिसको रिटायर्ड  or were defeated in the primary ) .
After the previous elections ( in  2008 ) , the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट थी रचित of 58 डेमोक्रेट , 40 republicans , और 2 independents  who caucus with the Democrats .
Republicans won four seats  आयोजित by retiring डेमोक्रेट और republicans पराजित  two incumbent Democrats .
This was  the largest क्रमांक of republicans gains चूंकि the 1994 चुनावों और भी the पहला समय चूंकि कि चुनाव कि  Republicans successfully defended all of their own seats .
This was the  चौथी लगातार चुनाव of `` क्लास 3 '' सीनेटरों जहाँ डेमोक्रेट have विफल  to gain seats and the third consecutive mid-term election held in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats .
Despite these Republican wins , however , the Democrats  retained a बहुमत of the सीनेट साथ 51 सीटे प्लस 2 independents  who caucus with them , compared to the 47 Republicans .
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each year as the Sun reaches  इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम excursion सापेक्ष to the celestial equator on the celestial गोला  .
As a result , on the day of the solstice , the Sun appears to  have पहुँचे इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम सालाना ऊँचाई in the आसमान ऊपर the क्षितिज at लोकल  solar noon .
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol (  सूर्य ) और sistere ( to स्टैंड स्टिल ) , क्युकी at the solstices , the सूर्य स्टैंड स्टिल in उतार ; कि is , the मौसमी गति of the सूर्य 's पाथ ( as देखी इससे धरती  ) comes to a stop before reversing direction .
The solstices , together with  the equinoxes , हैं कनेक्ट साथ the  seasons .
In  अनेक संस्कृतियों the solstices चिह्नित either the  beginning or the midpoint of winter and summer .
The term  संक्रांति can भी be प्रयुक्त in a broader भाव , as the तिथि ( दिन ) जब  this occurs .
The day of the solstice is either the longest day of the year (  in गर्मियाँ ) or the shortest दिन of the साल ( in शीत ) लिये कोई प्लेस  outside of the tropics .
Jerry  ली लुईस ( born सितंबर 29 , 1935 ) is an अमरीकी  rock and roll and country music singer-songwriter and pianist .
He is known by the nickname  `` the कातिल '' और is प्रायः viewed as “rock & फेंकें 's पहला ग्रेट  wild man” .
An early pioneer of rock and roll music  , in 1956 लुईस बना उसके पहला रिकार्डिंग  at Sun Records .
`` Crazy Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the South , but it  थी उसके 1957 hit `` पूरे lotta shakin ' going on `` कि शॉट लुईस to कीर्ति विश्वव्यापी  .
Lewis followed this in that same year when  he अंकित गीतों ऐसे as `` ग्रेट गेंदें of आग `` , `` breathless `` और `` ऊँची स्कूल गोपनीय  `` .
लुईस बेची अधिक रिकॉर्ड than एल्विस प्रेस्ली  at this time .
However , Lewis ' rock 'n '  फेंकें करियर faltered in the वेक of उसके विवाह to उसके  young cousin .
He  था छोटी कामयाबी in the चार्ट following  the scandal and his popularity quickly faded .
His live  प्रदर्शन शुल्क plummeted इससे $ 10,000 प्रति रात्रि to $ 250  .
In the  meantime he थी संकल्पित to लाभ वापस  some of his popularity .
दौरान the जल्दी 60’s he किया n't have much चार्ट  success with few exceptions such as `` What 'd I Say `` .
His live  प्रदर्शन at इस समय यहूद increasingly  wild and energetic .
His  एल्बम सजीव at the स्टार क्लबों , हैम्बर्ग इससे 1964 is प्रायः regarded by  many music journalists and fans as one of the wildest and greatest rock and roll concert albums ever .
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years with little success  , in 1968 लुईस बना a परिवर्तन into देश म्यूज़िक और था हिट्स साथ गीतों ऐसे as `` another प्लेस , another समय ''  .
इस reignited उसके करियर और throughout the लेट '60s और '70s he  regularly topped the country-western charts .
His # 1 country hits  शामिल `` to मेक प्रेम मीठी लिये तुम `` , `` वहीँ जरूर be अधिक to प्रेम than इस `` , `` होता तुम लो  Another Chance on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee `` .
लुईस 's सफलताओं जारी throughout the दशक और he embraced उसके चट्टान 'n ' फेंकें पास्ट साथ गीतों ऐसे as a कवर of the बिग bopper 's `` chantilly  Lace `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away `` .
In  the 21st सदी लुईस continues to दौरे to ऑडियंस around the संसार  and still releases new albums .
One such album , titled Last Man Standing ,  is उसके बेहतरीन selling to तिथि at over a लाख  copies sold worldwide .
इस थी followed by औसत बूढ़ा man जिससे रै प्राप्त  some of the best sales of Lewis’s career .
Lewis has had a dozen gold records  in दोनो चट्टान और देश , जीती अनेक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार ,  including a Lifetime Achievement Award .
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall  of कीर्ति in 1986 , और उसके pioneering योगदान to the विधा रै महरूम पहचाना by the rockabilly हॉल  of Fame .
in 1989 , उसके जीवन थी chronicled in the फिल्म ग्रेट  Balls of Fire , starring Dennis Quaid .
In 2003 , Rolling Stone Magazine listed his box set All  कातिल , no फिलर : the anthology क्रमांक 242 on उनके सूची of `` 500 महानतम  albums of all time `` .
In 2004 , they ranked him  क्रमांक 24 on उनके सूची of the 100 महानतम कलाकारों of सब समय  .
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar  quartet और the क्लास of '55 एल्बम , जिससे भी शामिल जॉनी नकदी , कार्ल perkins , रॉय  Orbison and Elvis Presley .
Henry Louis Stephens , untitled watercolor  ( 1863 ) of a man पढना a  newspaper with headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery '' .
The Emancipation Proclamation was an  अनुक्रम जारी to सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ( सहित the फौज और नेवी ) of the संयुक्त राज्य by अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln on जनवरी 1 , 1863 , दौरान the अमरीकी  Civil War .
It was based on the president 's constitutional authority as  कमांडर in मुख्य of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां ; it थी नहीं a विधि passed by कॉंग्रेस  .
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free ,  और ordered the फौज ( और सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to दावत as फ़्री सब those enslaved in टेन राज्य कि यहूद स्टिल in विद्रोह , यूँ applying  to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S .
The Proclamation could not be enforced in areas still under rebellion , but as the army took  कंट्रोल of confederate regions , the स्लेव in those regions यहूद emancipated बल्कि than लौटे  to their masters .
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where  विद्रोह था already महरूम subdued यहूद तत्काल emancipated , और over 3 लाख अधिक  were emancipated as the Union army advanced .
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave states that were not in rebellion , nor to most regions already controlled by the Union army ; emancipation  वहीँ होता आइये बाद पृथक राज्य क्रियाएँ and/or the दिसम्बर 1865 अनुसमर्थन of the तेरहवीं amendment , जिससे बना गुलामी illegal everywhere  in the U.S .
the उदघोषणा किया नहीं compensate the स्वामी , किया नहीं itself गैरकानूनी गुलामी , और किया नहीं मेक  the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) citizens .
It made the eradication  of गुलामी an सुस्पष्ट युद्ध लक्ष्य , in जोड to the  goal of reuniting the Union .
On September 22 , 1862 , Lincoln had issued a  प्रारंभिक उदघोषणा कि he होता अनुक्रम the emancipation of सब स्लेव in कोई राज्य of the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका कि किया नहीं  return to Union control by January 1 , 1863 .
None returned , and the order , signed and issued January 1 ,  1863 , took प्रभाव मगर in स्थितियाँ जहाँ the संघ था already ज़्यादातर  regained control .
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race war , angered some Northern  डेमोक्रेट , सक्रिय anti-slavery शक्तियां , और weakened शक्तियां in यूरोपीय कि चाही to intervene to सहायता the confederacy  .
It also lifted the spirits of African Americans both  in the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी राज्य , और led to अनेक स्लेव escaping उनके मास्टर्स और कार्यशील पीछे संघ लाइनों in अनुक्रम to have  their emancipation enforced .
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American  काल्पनिक कार्रवाई फिल्मी निर्देशित by zack स्नाइडर और co-written by उसे  and Steve Shibuya .
It is  स्नाइडर 's पहला फिल्मी आधारित on an  original script .
The film stars Emily Browning ,  abbie cornish , जेना malone , वैनेसा हजेंस , जेमी चुंग  , and Carla Gugino .
the कथानक फ़ॉलो the कल्पनाओं of a यंग स्त्री जो is वचनबद्ध to a दिमागी संस्था ,  as she makes a plan to escape the hospital before suffering a lobotomy .
The film was released in both conventional and IMAX  थिएटर in the संयुक्त राज्य at मध्यरात्रि on कूच 25 , 2011  .
It received generally  ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , लकिन थी a मॉडरेट बक्सा  office success .
Front  और वापस of canon powershot a95 , a ठेठ pocket-size  digital camera
Haselblad 503CW with Ixpress  v96c डिजिटल वापस , an उदाहरण of a पेशेवर  digital camera system
A digital camera  ( or digicam ) is a कैमरा कि takes वीडियो or स्टिल छायाचित्र by  recording images on an electronic image sensor .
Most cameras sold today are digital ,  और डिजिटल कैमरे हैं incorporated into अनेक डिवाइस ranging इससे गुस्से और मोबाईल फोन  ( called camera phones ) to vehicles .
Digital and film  कैमरे share an ऑप्टिकल प्रणाली , typically using a लेंस साथ a परिवर्तनीय  diaphragm to focus light onto an image pickup device .
The diaphragm  और शटर admit the सही राशि of लाइट to the imager , बस as साथ फिल्मी लकिन the चित्र पिकअप  device is electronic rather than chemical .
However , unlike film cameras , digital cameras can display images on a screen  तत्काल बाद होने अंकित , और स्टोर और हटाएँ बिंब इससे मेमोरी  .
Many digital cameras  can भी रिकार्ड चलती वीडियो  with sound .
कुछ डिजिटल कैमरे can क्रॉप और सिलाई  pictures and perform other elementary image editing .
the अंदर और सामने of a डेल  PowerEdge web server , a computer designed for rack mounting
Multiple  वेब सर्वर may be प्रयुक्त लिये a ऊँची ट्रैफ़िक जालस्थल , यहाँ चार सूर्य आग  X4200 servers are installed together
Web server can  refer to either the हार्डवेयर ( the कंप्यूटर ) or the तन्त्र ( the कंप्यूटर अनुप्रयोग ) कि helps  to deliver web content that can be accessed through the Internet .
The most common use of web  सर्वर is to मेजबान वेबसाइटों , लकिन वहीँ हैं अन्य उपयोग ऐसे as गेमिंग , आंकड़ा भंडार or कार्यशील एंटरप्राइज़  applications .
The American Red Cross ( ARC ) , also known as the American National Red Cross , is a humanitarian  संगठन कि provides आपात सहायता , विपत्ति राहत और शिक्षा अंदर the संयुक्त राज्य  .
It is the designated U.S. affiliate of  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of रेड क्रॉस और रेड crescent समाजों  .
Today , in addition to domestic disaster  राहत , the अमरीकी रेड क्रॉस offers सेवाएं in पाँच अन्य क्षेत्रों : जातियाँ सेवाएं कि सहायता the मोहताज ; संचार सेवाएं और सुकून लिये सैन्य सदस्यों और उनके परिवार सदस्यों ; the संग्रहण , प्रसंस्करण और वितरण of रक्त  and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness , health , and safety ; and international relief and development programs .
Issued a corporate charter by the  संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत शीर्षक 36 of the संयुक्त राज्य कोड , खण्ड 3001 , the अमरीकी नेशनल रेड क्रॉस is governed by स्वयंसेवक और समर्थित by जातियाँ दान  , income from health and safety training and products , and income from blood products .
The American Red  क्रॉस is headquartered in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
The Chairman of the Board of  राज्यपालों , सेवारत उसके दूसरी three-year पद , is bonnie mcelveen-hunter  .
The current  अध्यक्ष और मुख्य कार्यपालिका  Officer is Gail J. McGovern .
a मुर्गा  in Kosovo
A  मुर्गा , प्रर्दशित wattles  , earlobes and comb
A  मुर्गा crowing  ( with audio )
सही
A rooster ( also  पुकारा a cockerel or मुर्गा ) is a पुरूष gallinaceous  bird .
It  प्रायः refers to a पुरूष मुर्गा  ( Gallus gallus ) .
Immature male chickens less than  एक साल बूढ़ा हैं पुकारा cockerels  .
The  पद `` मुर्गा '' originates in the संयुक्त राज्य , और the पद is widely प्रयुक्त  throughout North America , as well as Australia and New Zealand .
In the United Kingdom  और आयरलैंड the पुरानी पद `` cockerel '' is  more commonly used .
`` Cock '' is in general use as the name  लिये a पुरूष of अन्य प्रजाति of बर्ड , लिये  example `` Cock sparrow '' .
``  roosting '' is the कार्रवाई of perching aloft to नींद at रात्रि , और is किया  by both sexes .
The rooster is polygamous ,  लकिन can नहीं गार्ड अनेक nests of अंडे at  once .
He guards the  सामान्य क्षेत्रफल जहाँ उसके मुर्गियां हैं nesting , और होगा  attack other roosters that enter his territory .
During the daytime , he usually sits on a high perch  , प्रायः 3–5 फीट बंद the मैदान to serve as a lookout लिये उसके झुण्ड  .
He will sound a distinctive  सचेतक कॉल if परभक्षी हैं आसपास  .
The Pokémon Trading Card Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a  collectible कार्ड खेल आधारित on the पोकीमॉन वीडियो खेल श्रेणी , पहला प्रकाशित in अक्तूबर 1996 by मीडिया फैक्टरी in जापानी  .
In the US , it was initially published by Wizards  of the coast , the कम्पनी कि produces , in दिसम्बर 1998  .
Nintendo  took over प्रकाशन in जून  2003 .
It is one of Nintendo 's  पिछला बाकी दमदार कड़ी to इसके विरासत as a playing  card company .
जमीन रोवर is a अंग्रेजों car निर्माता साथ इसके मुख्यालय in gaydon  , Warwickshire , United Kingdom which specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles .
It is  भाग of the जैगुआर जमीन रोवर समूह , a subsidiary  of Tata Motors of India .
It is the second  oldest four-wheel-drive car ब्रांड in the  world ( after Jeep ) .
The Land Rover name was originally used  by the रोवर कम्पनी लिये एक विशिष्ट गाडी मॉडल , नामित बस the जमीन रोवर  , launched by Rover in 1948 .
Over the following years it developed into a marque  encompassing a दायरा of four-wheel-drive मॉडल , सहित the defender , डिस्कवरी  , Freelander , Range Rover , Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque .
Land Rovers are currently  समवेत in the कम्पनी 's halewood और solihull पौधे , साथ शोध और विकास  taking place at JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres .
Land  रोवर बेची 194,000 वाहनों विश्वव्यापी  in 2009 .
Although the brand originates  इससे the असली 1948 मॉडल , जमीन रोवर as a कम्पनी रै तभी existed चूंकि  1978 .
Prior to this , it was a product line of the Rover Company which was subsequently  अवशोषित into the rover-triumph प्रभाग of the अंग्रेजों leyland मोटर निगम ( bl ) following leyland मोटर निगम ’s कब्ज़ा of रोवर  in 1967 .
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models , and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s well documented  कारोबार परेशानियों prompted the स्थापना of a पृथक जमीन रोवर कम्पनी लकिन स्टिल अंतर्गत the bl छतरियाँ , बाकी भाग of the subsequent रोवर समूह in 1988 , अंतर्गत the स्वामित्व of अंग्रेजों aerospace बाद the remains of अंग्रेजों leyland  were broken up and privatised .
In  1994 रोवर समूह पीएलसी थी acquired  by BMW .
In 2000 , Rover Group was broken-up by BMW and Land Rover was sold  to घाट मोटर कम्पनी , बनने भाग of इसके प्रीमियर ऑटोमोटिव समूह .
In 2006 Ford purchased the Rover  ब्रांड इससे bmw लिये around £6 लाख .
इस reunited the रोवर और जमीन रोवर ब्रांड्स लिये the पहला समय चूंकि 2000  when the Rover group was broken up by BMW .
In June 2008 , Ford sold both Land  रोवर और जैगुआर गाड़ियाँ to tata  Motors .
इस बिक्री भी शामिल the  dormant Rover brand
The cover of the first  dvd संकलन released  by Aniplex of The New Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The  नवीं ऋतु of the ब्लीच दुश्मनी श्रेणी  is named .
The series is based on  tite kubo 's manga साथ वही नाम  .
The episodes are directed by  noriyuki abe और उत्पादित by tv टोकियो , dentsu , और स्टुडियो  Pierrot .
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a new  आत्मा reaper कप्तान , shūsuke amagai , और the रहस्य surrounding the kasumiōji गोत्र , एक of the परिवारों कि constitute  the nobility of Soul Society .
The season began  airing on अप्रैल 23 , 2008 in जापानी on tv टोकियो और ended  on October 7 , 2008 .
The English adaptation of the Bleach anime is licensed by Viz Media , and this  चाप began airing on अगस्त 28 , 2010 on कार्टून संजाल 's वयस्क तैरना , और समाप्त on जनवरी 29 , 2011  .
Five  dvd compilations , प्रत्येक containing चार एपीसोड of the ऋतु , have महरूम released by aniplex  ; the first DVD compilation was released on November 26 , 2008 and the fifth on March 25 , 2009 .
A  dvd बक्सा होगा be प्रकाशित by  Viz Media on December 13 , 2011 .
The episodes  उपयोग तीन टुकड़े of थीम म्यूज़िक : एक खोलने थीम और दो  closing themes .
The opening theme is ``  chu-bura `` by kelun .
The first  closing थीम is `` नारंगी '' by lil'b , प्रयुक्त लिये एपीसोड 168 to 179 , और the दूसरी closing  theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku , used for the remainder of the episodes .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to  परमिट , prohibit , or वरना विनियमित वाणिज्यिक sex , मगर insofar as कॉंग्रेस may विनियमित it as भाग of अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स साथ कानून जैसे  the Mann Act .
In most  राज्य , वेश्यावृति is माना a misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक  order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one time considered  to be a vagrancy अपराधों  .
Currently , Nevada is  the तभी राज्य to allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति , the शर्तें of जिससे  are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties  फिलहाल contain क्रियाशील brothels  .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which  contains the लास vegas–paradise महानगर क्षेत्रफल ) , washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains रेनो )  , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel  वेश्यावृति , लकिन कुछ of ये काउंटी फिलहाल  have no active brothels .
Street prostitution  , `` pandering , '' और जीना बंद of the proceeds of a वेश्या remain illegal  under Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other  देशों , वेश्यावृति in the संयुक्त राज्य can be विभाजित into तीन व्यापक श्रेणी  : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The East Coast of the United States , also known as the Eastern Seaboard or the Atlantic Seaboard and  commonly shortened to ईस्ट coast , refers to the easternmost coast of the संयुक्त राज्य साथ the अटलांटिक  Ocean .
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast are , from north to south , the U.S. states of Maine  , नई हैम्पशायर , मैसाचुसेट्स , rhode द्वीप , कनेक्टिकट , नई यॉर्क , नई जर्सी , डेलावेयर , मेरीलैंड , वर्जिनिया , उत्तर कैरोलिना , दक्षिण कैरोलिना , जॉर्जिया , और फ्लोरिडा  .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 – April 22 , 1994 ) was  the 37th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974 , जब he became the तभी अध्यक्ष  to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and  सीनेटर इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as the 36th वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य  from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in Yorba  लिंडा , कैलिफ़ोर्निया .
He  ग्रैजुएट इससे whittier कॉलेज in 1934 और ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of विधि in 1937 , returning  to California to practice law .
He  और उसके बीवी , पैट निक्सन , स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य  for the federal government in 1942 .
He subsequently  परोसा in the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी दौरान  World War II .
Nixon was elected in California to the House of  प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the सीनेट in 1950  .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his  प्रतिष्ठा as a अग्रणी anti-communist , और elevated उसे to नेशनल  prominence .
He was the running  mate of ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर , the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी अध्यक्षीय  nominee in the 1952 election .
निक्सन परोसा लिये आठ सालो as  vice president .
He waged  an unsuccessful अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 1960 , narrowly खोने to जॉन F. कैनेडी  , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In  1968 , he भागा again लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी और  was elected .
Although Nixon  initially escalated अमेरिका 's भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध , he subsequently  ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
निक्सन 's विज़िट to the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the दो राष्ट्र , और he initiated  détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his administration generally embraced policies  कि transferred शक्ति इससे वॉशिंगटन to the राज्य  .
Among other things  , he शुभारम्भ पहलों to लड़ो कर्कट और illegal दवाएँ , imposed मजदूरी और दाम नियंत्रण , enforced desegregation of कुछ दक्षिणी स्कूलों  , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over  the चंद्र अवतरण शुरूआत साथ अपोलो  11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He was  re-elected by a भूस्खलन  in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo ,  the इस्तीफा of उसके वाइस अध्यक्ष , spiro agnew , और a continuing श्रेणी of खुलासे परिचय the वाटरगेट कांड और  other misconduct by members of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much  of उसके राजनैतिक support , और on अगस्त 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the फेस of लगभग निश्चित  impeachment and removal from office .
After his resignation , he  controversially प्राप्त a pardon जारी by उसके successor , जेराल्ड  Ford .
In retirement ,  निक्सन 's कार्य as an elder statesman , authoring अनेक किताबे और undertaking अनेक विदेशी  trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a  debilitating स्ट्रोक on अप्रैल 18 , 1994 , और died चार दिनों  later at the age of 81 .
Sertraline hydrochloride (  व्यापार names zoloft , lustral ) is an antidepressant of  the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class .
it थी introduced to the मार्केट  by Pfizer in 1991 .
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in  वयस्क outpatients as खूब as obsessive–compulsive , दहशत , और सोशल चिंता विकार in  both adults and children .
In 2011 , it was  the second-most विहित antidepressant on the u.S. खुदरा मार्केट , साथ  37,208,000 prescriptions .
The  efficacy of sertraline लिये अवसाद is समान to कि of पुरानी tricyclic  antidepressants , but its side effects are much less pronounced .
Differences  साथ नए antidepressants हैं subtler  and also mostly confined to side effects .
Evidence suggests that  sertraline may कार्य बेहतर than fluoxetine ( prozac ) लिये कुछ  subtypes of depression .
Treatment of panic disorder  साथ sertraline परिणाम in a significant घटी of the क्रमांक of दहशत हमले  and in improved quality of life .
For obsessive-compulsive disorder , sertraline is not as effective as cognitive  behavioral चिकित्सा ; the बेहतरीन परिणाम have महरूम हासिल by combining ये दो उपचार  .
Although  स्वीकृत लिये सोशल phobia और posttraumatic तनाव विकार , sertraline लीड to तभी modest  improvement in these conditions .
Sertraline  भी alleviates the लक्षण of premenstrual dysphoric विकार और can be प्रयुक्त in  sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently for its treatment .
Sertraline shares the common side effects and  contraindications of अन्य ssris , साथ ऊँची दरों of मतली , अतिसार , अनिद्रा , और यौन पक्ष प्रभाव ; however  , it does not cause weight gain , and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild .
In pregnant women taking sertraline , the drug was present in significant concentrations  in fetal रक्त , और थी भी संबद्ध साथ a उच्चतर रेट of विभिन्न जनम दोषों  .
similarly to अन्य antidepressants , the उपयोग of sertraline लिये अवसाद  may be associated with a higher rate of suicidality .
The Five Heartbeats is a  1991 musical नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by रॉबर्ट टाउनसेंड  , who co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans .
Distributed by 20th Century Fox , the  फिल्मी 's प्रमुख डाल शामिल टाउनसेंड , माइकल राइट , लिओन रॉबिन्सन , हैरी J. lennix , tico कुएं , हेरोल्ड निकोलस of the निकोलस भाइयो , और  Diahann Carroll .
The plot of the film ( which is  loosely आधारित on the जीवनदान of अनेक कलाकारों : the dells , the temptations , चार टॉप , विल्सन पिकेट  , James Brown , Frankie Lymon , Sam Cooke and others ) follows the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats .
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired  आत्मा अधिनियम through the आँखें of the फिल्मी 's प्रमुख समर्थक , डोनाल्ड `` बतख '' matthews ( portrayed by टाउनसेंड ) , जो serves  as a narrator throughout the film .
However , a  बहुमत of the सिनेमा is प्रस्तुत in a लगातार समय लकीर as opposed  to traditional flash backs .
The film includes a significant amount of original music conceived by various artists for the  फिल्मी 's साउंडट्रैक , सहित singles ऐसे as `` a दिल is a हाउस लिये प्रेम `` , `` we have n't समाप्त yet '' , और `` nothing लकिन प्रेम '' .
The film was released to most North American audiences March 29  , 1991 however it थी नहीं बना उपलब्धियाँ to ऑडियंस in अन्य महाद्वीपों जबतक 2002 जब a dvd थी released prior to another dvd रिलीज  in 2006 for the film 's 15th anniversary .
The movie received  मिश्रित समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों  .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970 – October  4 , 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse कि in 1973 became the पहला u.s . ट्रिपल क्राउन चैंपियन  in 25 years .
He set race records in all three  कार्यक्रम in the श्रेणी — the केंटकी डर्बी ( 1:59.4 ) , the preakness stakes ( 1:53 ) , और the belmont  Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today .
He is considered to be  एक of the महानतम thoroughbreds of  all time .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of  the 20th सदी , the उच्चतम रैंकिंग racehorse on the  list URL_http .
He ranked second  पीछे man o ' युद्ध in the blood-horse 's सूची of the शीर्ष  100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century .
Secretariat  थी sired by बिंदास शासक आउट of somethingroyal , by  Princequillo .
He was  foaled at the मर्ग in कैरोलीन काउंटी  , Virginia .
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War ,  सचिवालय थी a विशाल शाहबलूत टट्टू और थी दिए the वही उपनाम , `` बिग रेड . ''
Secretariat 's grandsire , Nasrullah , is also the  great-great-grandsire of 1977 ट्रिपल क्राउन विजेता सिएटल  Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery , he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian  jockey रॉन turcotte , साथ साथ प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल फेलिसियानो ( पहला दो दौड़ ) , और दिग्गज एडी मेपल ( पिछला रेस )  .
He  raced in chenery 's मर्ग stable 's ब्लू और श्वेत checkered रंगों और उसके दूल्हे  was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat  stood लगभग लम्बा , और weighed , साथ  a 75-inch girth , in his racing prime .
a ठेठ 12 v ,  40 Ah Lead-acid car battery
An  ऑटोमोटिव बैटरी is a प्रकार of rechargeable बैटरी कि आपूर्तियाँ इलेक्ट्रिक  energy to an automobile .
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting ,  lighting , प्रज्वलन ) to शक्ति the प्रारंभ मोटर , the लाइट्स , और the प्रज्वलन  system of a vehicle’s engine .
Automotive SLI batteries are usually  lead-acid प्रकार , और हैं बना of छह गैल्वानी कोशिकाएं in श्रेणी to  provide a 12 volt system .
Each cell provides  2.1 volts लिये a कुल of 12.6 वोल्ट at पूरा  charge .
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors , often  equipped साथ डीज़ल इंजन , may have दो बैटरी in श्रेणी लिये a 24 वोल्ट प्रणाली , or may have समानांतर  strings of batteries .
Lead-acid batteries  हैं बना up of प्लेटों of सीसे और पृथक प्लेटों of सीसे डाइऑक्साइड , जिससे हैं submerged  into an electrolyte solution of about 38 % sulfuric acid and 62 % water .
This causes a chemical reaction that releases  electrons , allowing उन्हें to प्रवाह through conductors to उपज  electricity .
As the battery  discharges , the एसिड of the electrolyte प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ the सामग्री of the प्लेटों  , changing their surface to lead sulfate .
When the battery is recharged ,  the रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया is reversed : the सीसे सल्फेट reforms into  lead dioxide and lead .
With  the प्लेटों लौटी to उनके असली कंडीशन ,  the process may now be repeated .
Battery  रीसाइक्लिंग of ऑटोमोटिव बैटरी reduces the need लिये संसाधन जरूरी लिये manufacture of नई बैटरी  , diverts toxic lead from landfills , and prevents risk of improper disposal .
Full-time employment is  नियुक्ति in जिससे a व्यक्ति works a न्यूनतम क्रमांक of घंटों पारिभाषित  as such by his/her employer .
Full-time employment often comes  साथ लाभ कि हैं नहीं typically offered to part-time , अस्थाई , or लचीली मजदूर , ऐसे as सालाना छोड़ , sickleave  , and health insurance .
full-time कार्य हैं प्रायः माना  careers .
वे generally अदा अधिक than part-time कार्य , और  usually carry more hours per week .
The Fair Labor Standards Act (  flsa ) करता नहीं define full-time नियुक्ति or part-time नियुक्ति  .
This is a matter generally  to be संकल्पित by the नियोक्ता ( us विभाग of मजदूर  ) .
The  परिभाषा by नियोक्ता can vary और is generally  published in a company 's Employee Handbook .
Companies commonly  आवश्यकता इससे 30–35 or 40 घंटों प्रति सप्ताह to be पारिभाषित as full-time और इसलिए योग्य लिये  benefits .
Full-Time status  varies between कम्पनी और is प्रायः आधारित on the शिफ़्ट the कर्मचारी जरूर कार्य दौरान प्रत्येक कार्य सप्ताह  .
The `` standard '' work week consists of  पाँच eight-hour दिनों , commonly परोसा between 9:00am to 5:00pm totaling 40 घंटों  .
While a four-day week  generally consists of चार ten-hour दिनों ; it may भी consist of as छोटी as नौ घंटों लिये  a total of a 36 hour work week .
Twelve-hour shifts are  प्रायः तीन दिनों प्रति सप्ताह , जबतक the कम्पनी रै the इरादे of  paying out the employee overtime .
Overtime is legally paid out anytime  an कर्मचारी works अधिक than 40 घंटों  per week .
The  विधिक न्यूनतम लिये ओवरटाइम starts  at Base Pay + One-Half .
The  increased भुगतान is माना to compensate थोड़ा लिये the increased  fatigue which a person experiences on such long shifts .
Shifts can also be very  irregular , as in खुदरा , लकिन हैं स्टिल full-time if the जरूरी क्रमांक  of hours is reached .
There are  कुछ परिस्थितियों जहाँ a व्यक्ति जो needs full-time कार्य is dropped to part-time , जिससे is  sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker .
Seahorse is  the शीर्षक दिए to 54 प्रजाति of समुद्री मछली in the  genus Hippocampus .
``  हिप्पोकैम्पस '' आता इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी hippos अर्थ `` घोड़ा  '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster '' .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United  राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक ड्रग गाली रोकथाम और कंट्रोल अधिनियम  of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug  नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture , importation , कब्ज़ा , उपयोग और वितरण of निश्चित substances  is regulated .
The Act also  परोसा as the नेशनल implementing विधान लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on  Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created  पाँच schedules ( classifications ) , साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ  to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes  अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000 , जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i . वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित लिये गाली ( an अपरिभाषित पद ) , फिलहाल स्वीकृत चिकित्सा उपयोग in उपचार in the संयुक्त राज्य , और अंतरराष्ट्रीय  treaties .
माया numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal ( base -  बीस ) numeral प्रणाली प्रयुक्त by the pre-columbian माया सभ्यता  .
The  numerals हैं बना up of तीन प्रतीकों ; शून्य ( शेल आकार )  , one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ) .
लिये उदाहरण , तेरह is लिखा as तीन dots in a आड़ा  row above two horizontal lines stacked above each other .
Lyndon  baines जॉनसन ( अगस्त 27 , 1908 – जनवरी 22 , 1973 ) , प्रायः referred to as lbj , थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States ( 1963–1969 ) , a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only  चार लोगों जो परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य : प्रतिनिधि , सीनेटर  , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United States  प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961 , सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट  Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960 , Johnson  थी पूछा by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके कार्यशील mate लिये the 1960  presidential election .
Johnson  succeeded to the प्रेसिडेंसी following the हत्या of जॉन F. कैनेडी on नवम्बर 22 , 1963 , समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके  own right , winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President , he was  जिम्मेदार लिये डिजाइनिंग the `` ग्रेट समाज `` विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों , पब्लिक प्रसारण , medicare , medicaid , पर्यावरणीय  protection , aid to education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was  प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार , '' उसके coercion of शक्तिशाली  politicians in order to advance legislation .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American involvement in the  वियतनाम युद्ध , इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968 , as  American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar  गति आधारित विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों campuses in the  U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots broke out in most major cities  बाद 1965 , और अपराधों दरों soared , as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों उठाया मांगे  for `` law and order '' policies .
The Democratic Party split in  अनेक feuding गिरोहों , और बाद जॉनसन किया poorly in the 1968  New Hampshire primary , he ended his bid for reelection .
रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित  to succeed him .
Historians argue  कि जॉनसन 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the शिखर of आधुनिक उदारतावाद  in the United States after the New Deal era .
जॉनसन is क्रमित favorably by कुछ इतिहासकारों  because of his domestic policies .
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a C-21 steroid hormone  शामिल in the मादा menstrual साईकिल , गर्भावस्था ( supports gestation ) और embryogenesis of इंसानो और अन्य प्रजाति  .
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormones  पुकारा progestogens , और is the प्रमुख naturally  occurring human progestogen .
Big Bird is a  समर्थक of the children 's टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ  Sesame Street .
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969 , he is an  eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) लम्बा उज्जवल primrose-yellow  bird .
He can roller skate , ice  स्केट , नृत्य , गाओ , लिखें काव्य , चित्रण और भी  ride a unicycle .
But despite this wide array of talents , he is prone to frequent misunderstandings , on one occasion even singing the alphabet as one big long  शब्द ( इससे the सोंग पुकारा `` abc-def-ghi , '' सुनाया `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz  '' ) , pondering what it could ever mean .
He lives in a large nest behind the 123  तिल गली brownstone और रै a टेडी भालू नामित  Radar .
Webtrends is a private  कम्पनी headquartered in पोर्टलैंड , ऑरेगॉन , संयुक्त  States .
It provides web , social , and mobile  analytics और अन्य तन्त्र समाधान सम्बन्धित to विपणन प्रज्ञा  .
The company was founded in 1993 and now serves more than 10,000  विशाल और छोटी कड़s. < संदर्भ name='intelligent एंटरप्राइज़ 2007-05-21  ' >
The Second Crusade (  1145–1149 ) थी the दूसरी प्रमुख crusade शुभारम्भ इससे यूरोपीय  .
The Second  crusade थी प्रारंभ in जवाब to the पतन of the काउंटी of  Edessa the previous year to the forces of Zengi .
The county had been founded during the First  crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by baldwin of  Boulogne in 1098 .
While it was the first Crusader  राज्य to be संस्थापित , it थी भी the पहला to  fall .
The Second Crusade was  घोषित by पोप यूजीन iii , और थी the पहला of the क्रूसेड to be led by यूरोपीय किंग्स , namely लुई सात of फ़्रांस और कोनराड  III of Germany , with help from a number of other European nobles .
The armies of  the दो किंग्स marched separately  across Europe .
After crossing Byzantine  territory into आनातोलिया , दोनो सेना यहूद separately पराजित by the seljuq turks  .
The main Western Christian source , Odo of Deuil , and Syriac  ईसाई स्त्रोत अर्जी कि the बीज़ान्टिन सम्राट मैनुएल i comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' प्रगति , विशेषकर in आनातोलिया जहाँ he is  alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them .
Louis and  कोनराड और the remnants of उनके सेना पहुँचे जेरूसलम और , in 1148 , participated  in an ill-advised attack on Damascus .
The crusade in the east was a  विफलता लिये the crusaders और a ग्रेट विजय लिये the  Muslims .
It would ultimately have a key  influence on the पतन of जेरूसलम और दे वृद्धि to the तीसरा crusade at the समाप्त of  the 12th century .
The only success of the Second  crusade आए to a संयुक्त फ़ोर्स of 13,000 फ्लेमिश , frisian , नॉर्मन  , English , Scottish , and German crusaders in 1147 .
Travelling from England , by ship , to the Holy Land , the army stopped and  helped the छोटी ( 7,000 ) पुर्तगाली फौज in the कैप्चर of लिस्बन , expelling इसके मूरिश occupants  .
wal-mart स्टोर्स , inc. ( ) , ब्रांडेड as walmart , is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय खुदरा निगम कि रनों  chains of large discount department stores and warehouse stores .
The company is the world 's third largest public corporation , according to the Fortune Global 500 list in  2012 , the biggest निजी नियोक्ता in the संसार साथ over दो लाख  employees , and is the largest retailer in the world .
Walmart remains a family-owned business , as the company  is नियंत्रित by the वाल्टन परिवार , जो अपना a 48 प्रतिशत हिस्सेदारी in walmart  .
It  is भी एक of the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान  companies .
The company was  संस्थापित by sam वाल्टन in 1962 , incorporated on अक्तूबर 31 , 1969 , और सरेआम traded  on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972 .
It is headquartered in  bentonville , अरकंसास  .
Walmart is  भी the largest किराना रिटेलर  in the United States .
In  2009 , it उत्पन्न 51 प्रतिशत of इसके us $ 258 अरब बिक्री  in the U.S. from grocery business .
It also owns and operates the Sam  's क्लबों खुदरा warehouses in उत्तर  America .
By 1988 , Wal-Mart was  the सबसे लाभप्रद रिटेलर in the us , और by नवम्बर 1990 ,  it outsold K-mart .
By  1991 it outsold सियर्स in खुदरा , बनाना it  America 's largest retailer , a distinction it still holds .
Walmart  रै 8,500 स्टोर्स in 15 देशों ,  under 55 different names .
The company  operates अंतर्गत the walmart नाम in the संयुक्त राज्य , सहित  the 50 states and Puerto Rico .
It operates in Mexico as Walmex ,  in the संयुक्त किंगडम as asda , in जापानी as seiyu  , and in India as Best Price .
It has wholly owned operations  in अर्जेंटीना , ब्राज़ील , और कनाडा  .
Walmart 's investments outside North America have had mixed results : its operations in the United Kingdom , South  अमेरिका , और चीन हैं अत्यधिक कामयाब , whereas ventures in जर्मनी और  South Korea were unsuccessful .
रॉबर्ट विलियम गेरी मूर ( 4 अप्रैल 1952 – 6 फ़रवरी 2011 ) , थी a उत्तरी  Irish musician , most widely recognised as a singer and guitarist .
in a करियर डेटिंग वापस to the 1960s , मूर निभाई साथ कलाकारों सहित फिल lynott और ब्रायन downey दौरान उसके किशोर , अग्रणी  him to memberships with the Irish bands Skid Row and Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions .
Moore shared the stage with  ऐसे ब्लूज़ और चट्टान luminaries as b.b . किंग , अल्बर्ट किंग , कोलोसियम ii , जार्ज हैरिसन  and Greg Lake , as well as having a successful solo career .
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high  प्रोफ़ाइल संगीतकारों , सहित a कैमियो रूप playing the सीसे गिटार सोलो on `` वो 's my baby `` इससे traveling wilburys  Vol . 3 .
An  उदाहरण of रैक आरोहित सर्वर
A web  होस्टिंग सेवा is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग सेवा कि allows individuals और संगठन  to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies that provide  स्पेस on a सर्वर स्वामित्व or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट , as खूब as providing अंतरजाल  connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for  अन्य सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा बीच , पुकारा colocation , भी ज्ञात as आवास in लैटिन अमेरिका or  France .
The scope of  वेब होस्टिंग सेवाएं varies greatly  .
The  सबसे मौलिक is वेब पेज और small-scale संचिका होस्टिंग , जहाँ फाइलें  can be uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface .
The files are usually delivered to the  वेब `` as is '' or साथ minimal प्रसंस्करण  .
Many Internet  सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) प्रस्ताव इस  service free to subscribers .
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page  होस्टिंग इससे वैकल्पिक सेवा प्रदाताओं  .
Personal web site  होस्टिंग is typically फ़्री , advertisement-sponsored  , or inexpensive .
Business web site hosting often has a higher  व्यय depending upon the आकार और प्रकार of the जालस्थल  .
Single page hosting is  generally sufficient लिये निजी वेब  pages .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides  डेटाबेस support और अनुप्रयोग विकास प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g . पीएचपी , जावा , माणिक्य on rails , coldfusion  , or ASP.NET ) .
These  सुविधाएं allow ग्राहक to लिखें or स्थापना स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग  like forums and content management .
Also , Secure Sockets Layer  ( एसएसएल ) is typically प्रयुक्त लिये e-commerce  .
The host may also provide an  इंटरफ़ेस or कंट्रोल फलक लिये मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट , as खूब  as other modules and service applications like e-mail .
Some hosts specialize in certain software or  सेवाएं ( e.g . e-commerce ) , जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger कंपनियाँ कि  outsource network infrastructure .
Obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare , `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all women 's  reproductive tracts और उनके children दौरान गर्भावस्था ( prenatal काल ) , प्रसव और the postnatal काल  .
Many  obstetricians हैं भी स्त्रीरोग , अर्थ  they perform in both specialties .
In the United  राज्य , ये physicians हैं  commonly referred to as OB/GYNs .
The Wright brothers , Orville ( August 19 , 1871 –  जनवरी 30 , 1948 ) और wilbur ( अप्रैल 16 , 1867 – may 30 , 1912 ) , यहूद दो अमरीकी भाइयो , आविष्कारक , और विमानन pioneers जो यहूद credited साथ inventing और भवन the संसार 's पहला कामयाब वायुयान और बनाना  the first controlled , powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight , on December 17 , 1903 .
From 1905 to 1907 , the brothers developed their flying  यंत्र into the पहला व्यावहारिक fixed-wing  aircraft .
Although not the first to build and fly experimental aircraft , the Wright brothers were the  पहला to इफ़तेरा वायुयान नियंत्रण कि बना fixed-wing संचालित उड़ान संभावित  .
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was  उनके आविष्कार of three-axis कंट्रोल , जिससे सक्रिय the पायलट to steer the वायुयान effectively और to maintain इसके संतुलन  .
This method became standard and  remains मानक on fixed-wing वायुयान of सब kinds  .
From the beginning of their  aeronautical कार्य , the राइट भाइयो केन्द्रित on विकासशील a विश्वसनीय विधि of पायलट कंट्रोल as the कुंजी to solving `` the  flying problem '' .
This approach  differed significantly इससे अन्य experimenters of the समय जो put अधिक जोर  on developing powerful engines .
Using a small  homebuilt हवा टनल , the wrights भी एकत्रित अधिक सटीक आंकड़ा than कोई पहले , enabling उन्हें to डिज़ाइन और निर्माण विंग्स और propellers  that were more efficient than any before .
Their first U.S. patent , 821,393 , did not claim invention of a flying machine , but rather ,  the आविष्कार of a प्रणाली of aerodynamic कंट्रोल कि manipulated a उड़ती यंत्र 's सतहों  .
They gained the mechanical skills essential for their success by working  लिये सालो in उनके दूकान साथ मुद्रण दबाता , साइकिल , मोटर्स , और अन्य  machinery .
Their work with  साइकिल in particular बहकावे उनके विश्वास कि an अस्थिर गाडी जैसे a उड़ती यंत्र could be नियंत्रित  and balanced with practice .
इससे 1900 जबतक उनके पहला संचालित फ़्लाइट in लेट 1903 , वे conducted extensive glider  tests that also developed their skills as pilots .
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie Taylor became an  महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the टोली , भवन उनके पहला वायुयान इंजन in  close collaboration with the brothers .
The Wright brothers ' status as inventors of the airplane has been subject  to counter-claims by  various parties .
much विवाद persists over the अनेक  competing claims of early aviators .
अमेरिका 's अगला शीर्ष मॉडल , साईकिल 12 is the बारहवीं साईकिल of अमेरिका 's अगला शीर्ष मॉडल और the  sixth season to air on The CW network .
It  premiered on कूच 4 , 2009  .
The  साईकिल 's कैच phrase  is `` Get In The Fold . ''
The cycle  's promotional सोंग is महिला  Gaga 's `` The Fame '' .
The prizes  लिये इस साईकिल are:
A modeling  अनुबंध साथ elite मॉडल  Management .
A  फ़ैशन स्प्रेड और कवर  in Seventeen .
A 100,000  अनुबंध साथ covergirl कॉस्मेटिक्स  .
The first  हाफ of the साईकिल took प्लेस in नई यॉर्क नगर , चलती  the show back from Los Angeles last season .
The international destination for this cycle  is são पाउलो , ब्राज़ील , the श्रेणी पहला विज़िट to दक्षिण  America .
The number of girls was reduced to  13 , the पहला समय चूंकि साईकिल 9 , बाद होने कायम  at 14 in the last two cycles .
इस थी the पिछला समय paulina porizkova  participated as judge .
The winner was 20-year-old  teyona एंडरसन इससे woodstown , नई जर्सी  .
This season  averaged 4.35 लाख दर्शक  per episode .
Exxon Mobil Corporation , or ExxonMobil , is an American  बहुराष्ट्रीय आयल और गैस निगम headquartered in इरविंग  , Texas , United States .
It is a direct descendant of John D.  rockefeller 's मानक आयल कम्पनी , और थी formed on नवम्बर 30 , 1999 , by the विलय of exxon और  Mobil .
It is  संबद्ध साथ इम्पीरियल  Oil which operates in Canada .
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest company by revenue and in 2013 , became the largest publicly  traded कम्पनी by मार्केट capitalization in the संसार .
The company is ranked # 5  globally in फोर्ब्स वैश्विक 2000 सूची in  2013 .
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72  अरब oil-equivalent barrels at the समाप्त of 2007 और , at तब ( 2007 ) दरों of उत्पादन , हैं अपेक्षित to पिछला over 14 सालो  .
With 37  आयल refineries in 21 देशों constituting a संयुक्त रोज़ शोधन क्षमता of , exxon mobil is the largest refiner in the संसार  , a title that was also associated with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870 .
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors with daily production of 3.921 million BOE  ( barrels of आयल समतुल्य )  .
in 2008 , इस थी लगभग 3 % of संसार उत्पादन , जिससे is  less than several of the largest state-owned petroleum companies .
When ranked by oil and gas  reserves it is 14th in the संसार साथ कम than 1 %  of the total .
A 2012 article in The Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into one of the  planet’s सबसे hated corporations , समर्थ to determine अमरीकी विदेशी नीति और the भाग्य of संपूर्ण  nations '' .
In terms of its environmental record , ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to  उन्हें by dictatorships , ऐसे as those in chad और भूमध्यरेखीय  Guinea .
Lee Raymond , the corporation’s chief executive until 2005 , was ``  notoriously sceptical परिचय जलवायु बदलें और disliked सरकारी हस्तक्षेप at कोई  level '' .
The company was widely criticized for its  slow जवाब to सफ़ाई इसके 1989 valdez आयल  spill in Alaska .
This article is  परिचय the ग्लोब थिएटर of शेक्सपियर  .
For the  आधुनिक पुनर्निर्माण in लंदन , देखिए शेक्सपियर  's Globe .
For  अन्य उपयोग , देखिए ग्लोब थिएटर ( बहुविकल्पी  ) .
the ग्लोब थिएटर थी a थिएटर in लंदन संबद्ध  with William Shakespeare .
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare  's playing कम्पनी , the रब चेम्बरलेन 's मेन , on जमीन स्वामित्व by थामस brend  and inherited by his son , Nicholas Brend and grandson Sir Matthew Brend , and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613 .
A second Globe  थिएटर थी निर्मित on the वही साईट by जून 1614 और  closed in 1642 .
A modern reconstruction of the Globe , named ``  शेक्सपियर 's ग्लोब `` , खोली in 1997 लगभग इससे the साईट of the असली  theatre .
it 's a अद्भुत जीवन is a 1946 अमरीकी क्रिसमस नाटक फिल्मी उत्पादित और निर्देशित by फ़्रैंक capra , आधारित on the छोटी  story `` The Greatest Gift `` , which Philip Van Doren Stern wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945 .
The film is considered  एक of the सबसे loved films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और रै become परंपरागत देखने दौरान the क्रिसमस ऋतु ,  alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens ' A Christmas Carol .
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey , a man who has given up his dreams in order to help others and  जिनकी निकट आत्महत्या on क्रिसमस संध्या brings परिचय the हस्तक्षेप of उसके संरक्षक देवदूत , क्लेरेंस odbody ( हेनरी  Travers ) .
Clarence shows George all the lives he has  छुआ और कैसा अलग जीवन in उसके जातियाँ of bedford जलप्रपात होता be था he never  been born .
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production costs and stiff competition at the  समय of इसके रिलीज , the फिल्मी रै आइये to be regarded as a क्लासिक और is a स्टेपल of क्रिसमस टेलीविज़न around  the world .
Theatrically , the film 's break-even point was  दरअसल $ 6.3 लाख , लगभग twice the उत्पादन लागत , a फिगर it never आए बंद to achieving in  its initial release .
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the complete box office failure that today everyone believes  ... it थी initially a प्रमुख निराशा और पुष्टि , at तनिक to the studios , कि capra थी no longer सक्षम of turning आउट the populist सुविधाएँ कि बना उसके films the must-see , money-making कार्यक्रम  they once were . ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the  अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान as एक of the 100 बेहतरीन अमरीकी films कभी बना , रखकर क्रमांक 11 on इसके आरंभिक 1998 महानतम फिल्म सूची , और होता भी प्लेस क्रमांक एक on इसके सूची  of the most inspirational American films of all time .
आंकड़ा गोदाम  Overview
In computing  , a आंकड़ा गोदाम or एंटरप्राइज़ आंकड़ा गोदाम ( dw , dwh , or edw )  is a database used for reporting and data analysis .
it is a सेंट्रल repository of आंकड़ा जिससे is निर्मित by integrating  data from one or more disparate sources .
Data warehouses store current as well as  ऐतिहासिक आंकड़ा और हैं प्रयुक्त लिये बनाना चर्चित रिपोर्ट्स लिये वरिष्ठ प्रबन्धन  reporting such as annual and quarterly comparisons .
The data stored in  the गोदाम हैं अपलोड इससे the operational प्रणालियों ( ऐसे  as marketing , sales etc. , shown in the figure to the right ) .
The  आंकड़ा may pass through an operational आंकड़ा स्टोर लिये अतिरिक्त परिचालन पहले वे  are used in the DW for reporting .
The  ठेठ etl -आधारd आंकड़ा गोदाम उपयोग स्टेजिंग , आंकड़ा संयोजन  , and access layers to house its key functions .
The staging layer or staging database  स्टोर्स कच्चा आंकड़ा निकाली इससे प्रत्येक of the disparate  source data systems .
The integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by transforming  the आंकड़ा इससे the स्टेजिंग परत प्रायः storing इस रूपांतरित आंकड़ा in an operational आंकड़ा स्टोर ( ods ) डेटाबेस  .
The integrated data are then moved to yet another database , often called the  आंकड़ा गोदाम डेटाबेस , जहाँ the आंकड़ा is arranged into hierarchical समूह प्रायः पुकारा आयाम और into तथ्य और कुल तथ्य  .
The combination of  तथ्य और आयाम is sometimes पुकारा  a star schema .
The  अभिगम परत helps उपयोक्ता  retrieve data .
A data warehouse  constructed इससे an एकीकृत आंकड़ा सोर्स प्रणालियों करता नहीं आवश्यकता etl , स्टेजिंग databases  , or operational data store databases .
The integrated data  सोर्स प्रणालियों may be माना to be a भाग of a वितरित  operational data store layer .
Data federation methods or data virtualization methods may be used to access the  वितरित एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों to consolidate और कुल आंकड़ा सीधे into the आंकड़ा गोदाम  database tables .
Unlike the ETL-based data  गोदाम , the एकीकृत सोर्स आंकड़ा प्रणालियों और the आंकड़ा गोदाम हैं सब एकीकृत चूंकि वहीँ is no परिवर्तन  of dimensional or reference data .
This  एकीकृत आंकड़ा गोदाम वास्तुकला supports the ड्रिल bas इससे the कुल आंकड़ा  of the data warehouse to the transactional data of the integrated source data systems .
आंकड़ा warehouses can be subdivided into  data marts .
Data marts  स्टोर subsets of आंकड़ा इससे  a warehouse .
This  परिभाषा of the आंकड़ा गोदाम  focuses on data storage .
The main source of  the आंकड़ा is cleaned , रूपांतरित , cataloged और बना उपलब्धियाँ लिये उपयोग by प्रबंधक और अन्य कारोबार पेशेवर  for data mining , online analytical processing , market research and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ) .
However , the means to retrieve and  analyze आंकड़ा , to निकालें , रूपांतरण और लोड आंकड़ा , और to मैनेज the आंकड़ा  dictionary are also considered essential components of a data warehousing system .
Many  सन्दर्भ to आंकड़ा warehousing उपयोग इस  broader context .
Thus , an expanded  परिभाषा लिये आंकड़ा warehousing शामिल कारोबार प्रज्ञा टूल्स , टूल्स to निकालें , रूपांतरण और लोड  data into the repository , and tools to manage and retrieve metadata .
Portland stone quarry  on the आइल of पोर्टलैंड  , England
an abandoned निर्माण कुल पाषाण  near Adelaide , South Australia
A  पाषाण is a प्रकार of open-pit मेरा इससे जिससे  rock or minerals are extracted .
Quarries are  generally प्रयुक्त लिये extracting भवन सामग्री , ऐसे as आयाम स्टोन , निर्माण  aggregate , riprap , sand , and gravel .
They are often collocated with concrete and asphalt  पौधे due to the आवश्यकता लिये विशाल amounts of कुल in those  materials .
Open mines that produce  खनिज हैं typically referred to as  open pit mines .
The word  पाषाण can शामिल भूमिगत quarrying लिये स्टोन ,  such as Bath stone .
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to  mormonism , the प्रिंसिपल शाखा of the latter दिन संत गति of restorationist christianity , जिससे began  with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s .
After Smith 's death in 1844 the  mormons followed ब्रिघम यंग to कया होता become the यूटा  Territory .
Today  mormons हैं समझा to be सदस्यों of the गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह  of Latter-day Saints ( LDS Church ) .
Some Mormons are also  either स्वतंत्र or non-practicing  .
The  बीच of mormon सांस्कृतिक influence is in यूटा , और उत्तर अमेरिका रै अधिक mormons than कोई अन्य  continent , though the majority of Mormons live outside the United States .
Mormons have developed a  दमदार भाव of communality कि तना इससे उनके  doctrine and history .
During the 19th century Mormon  converts tended to एकत्रित to a सेंट्रल भौगोलिक स्थान , और between 1852 और 1890 a अल्पसंख्यक of mormons खुलकर practiced बहुवचन विवाह , a रूप of धार्मिक polygamy  .
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and  संसाधन to सेवारत in उनके गिरिजाघर , और अनेक यंग mormons चुनें to serve a full-time proselytizing  mission .
mormons have a स्वास्थ्य कोड कि eschews alcoholic पेय , तम्बाकू , कॉफी  , tea , and other addictive substances .
They tend to be very family-oriented , and have strong  कनेक्शन्स आरपार पीढियां और साथ विस्तारित परिवार , परावर्तक of उनके विश्वास कि परिवारों can be sealed साथ  beyond death and throughout eternity .
mormons भी have a सख्त विधि of शुद्धता , requiring abstention इससे यौन संबंध बाहर  of marriage and strict fidelity within marriage .
Mormons self-identify as Christian , though  कुछ of उनके मान्यताओं differ इससे मुख्यधारा christianity  .
Mormons believe  in the बाइबल , as खूब as अन्य किताबे of scripture , ऐसे  as the Book of Mormon .
They have a  अद्वितीय दृश्य of cosmology , और मानना  that all people are spirit-children of God .
Mormons believe that returning  to परमेश्वर requires following the उदाहरण of यीशु मसीह , और accepting उसके प्रायश्चित through ordinances  such as baptism .
They  मानना कि मसीह 's गिरिजाघर थी लौटी through जोसेफ स्मिथ  , and is guided by living prophets and apostles .
Central to  mormon आस्था is the विश्वास कि परमेश्वर बोलती  to his children and answers their prayers .
In  वित्तीय हिसाब , एसेट हैं आर्थिक  resources .
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable of being owned or controlled to produce value and  कि is आयोजित to have धनात्मक आर्थिक मान is माना an  asset .
Simply stated ,  एसेट represent मान of स्वामित्व कि can be परिवर्तित into नकदी  ( although cash itself is also considered an asset ) .
The balance sheet  of a कड़ रिकॉर्ड the monetaryj  .
G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005.There are different methods  of assessing the मौद्रिक मान of the एसेट अंकित on the संतुलन चादर  .
in कुछ मामले , the ऐतिहासिक लागत is प्रयुक्त ; ऐसे कि the मान of the एसेट जब it थी खरीदा  in the past is used as the monetary value .
In other  उदाहरण , the उपस्थित मेला मार्केट मान of the एसेट is प्रयुक्त to determine the  value shown on the balance sheet .
value of the  एसेट स्वामित्व by the कड़  .
It  is धन और अन्य valuables belonging  to an individual or business .
Two major asset  वर्ग हैं ठोस एसेट और intangible एसेट  .
ठोस एसेट contain विभिन्न subclasses , सहित वर्तमान  assets and fixed assets.J .
Downes , J.E . Goodman , `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 Current assets include inventory , while fixed assets include such items as buildings and  उपकरण .J . downes , j.e . गुडमैन , `` शब्दकोष of वित्त & निवेश शर्तें '' , सामन्त 's वित्तीय मार्गदर्शिका , 2003 ; और J. G. siegel , N. dauber & J. K.  Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005 .
Intangible assets are nonphysical resources and  अधिकारों कि have a मान to the कड़ क्युकी वे दे the कड़ कुछ दयालु of लाभ  in the market place .
Examples of intangible assets  हैं साख , copyrights , trademarks , patents और कंप्यूटर कार्यक्रम , और वित्तीय एसेट , सहित ऐसे वस्तुएं as खाते  receivable , bonds and stocks .
A neuron ( or ;  भी ज्ञात as a neurone or तंत्रिका कोशिका ) is an electrically excitable कोशिका कि प्रक्रियाओं और transmits सूचना through  electrical and chemical signals .
A chemical  सिग्नल occurs via a अन्तर्ग्रथन , a specialized कनेक्शन साथ अन्य  cells .
Neurons  कनेक्ट to प्रत्येक अन्य to रूप neural  networks .
Neurons are the core  components of the बेचैन प्रणाली , जिससे शामिल the दिमाग , स्पाइनल cord  , and peripheral ganglia .
A number of specialized  प्रकार of न्यूरॉन्स मौजूद : संवेदी न्यूरॉन्स respond to टच , ध्वनि , लाइट और numerous अन्य stimuli affecting कोशिकाएं of  the sensory organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain .
Motor neurons receive signals from the brain and  स्पाइनल cord , कारण मांसपेशी contractions , और affect ग्रंथियों  .
Interneurons connect  न्यूरॉन्स to अन्य न्यूरॉन्स भीतर the वही प्रदेश of  the brain or spinal cord .
A typical neuron possesses a  कोशिका देह ( प्रायः पुकारा the सोम ) , dendrites ,  and an axon .
Dendrites are thin structures that arise from the cell body , often  extending लिये सैंकड़ों of micrometres और branching अनेक  times , giving rise to a complex `` dendritic tree '' .
An axon is a special cellular extension that arises from  the कोशिका देह at a साईट पुकारा the axon उभरकर और ट्रेवल्स लिये a अलहदा , as दूर as 1 मीटर  in humans or even more in other species .
The cell body of a neuron frequently  देता वृद्धि to अनेक dendrites , लकिन never to अधिक than एक axon , हालांकि the axon may शाखा सैंकड़ों  of times before it terminates .
At the majority of synapses ,  सिग्नल हैं भेजा इससे the axon of एक न्यूरॉन to a dendrite of  another .
There are , however ,  अनेक अपवाद to ये नियम : न्यूरॉन्स कि कमी dendrites , न्यूरॉन्स कि have no axon , synapses कि  connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite , etc .
All neurons are electrically excitable , maintaining voltage gradients across their  झिल्लियों by अर्थात् of metabolically चलित आयन पंपों , जिससे combine साथ आयन चैनल्स अंतःस्थापित in the झिल्ली to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular विशेषज्ञता मतभेद  of ions such as sodium , potassium , chloride , and calcium .
Changes in  the cross-membrane वोल्टेज can alter the फलन of voltage-dependent  ion channels .
If the voltage changes by a large enough amount , an all-or-none  electrochemical पल्स पुकारा an कार्रवाई संभावित is उत्पन्न , जिससे ट्रेवल्स rapidly साथ the कोशिका 's axon , और activates सिनेप्टिक  connections with other cells when it arrives .
Neurons  do नहीं undergo कोशिका प्रभाग  .
In most cases , neurons are  उत्पन्न by खास प्रकार of स्टेम  cells .
Astrocytes , a type of  glial कोशिका , have भी महरूम observed to फेरे into न्यूरॉन्स by पुण्य of the स्टेम कोशिका  characteristic pluripotency .
In humans , neurogenesis largely ceases  दौरान adulthood—but in दो दिमाग क्षेत्रों , the हिप्पोकैम्पस और घ्राण बल्ब , वहीँ is दमदार  evidence for generation of substantial numbers of new neurons .
Super Bowl XLIII was an American football game between the American  फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियन पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स और the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन  ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season .
the स्टीलर्स पराजित the कार्डिनल्स  by the score of 27–23 .
The game  थी निभाई on फ़रवरी 1 , 2009 , at रेमंड  James Stadium in Tampa , Florida .
With this win , the Steelers became the  पहला टोली to जीत छह सुपर  Bowls .
Pittsburgh , who finished the regular  ऋतु साथ a 12–4 रिकार्ड , भी जीती उनके दूसरी सुपर कटोरी in चार सालो बाद जीतना  Super Bowl XL at the end of the 2005 season .
The Cardinals entered  the खेल seeking उनके पहला एनएफएल शीर्षक चूंकि 1947 , the longest चैंपियनशिप  drought in the league .
The  क्लबों became an अनपेक्षित विजेता दौरान the नियमित ऋतु , compiling a 9–7 रिकार्ड , और the playoffs साथ the सहायता of सिर कोच केन whisenhunt , जो थी the स्टीलर्स ' अप्रिय  coordinator in Super Bowl XL , and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner , who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team , St. Louis Rams .
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 halftime lead , aided by linebacker James Harrison 's Super Bowl  रिकार्ड 100-yard interception वापसी लिये a touchdown  .
trailing 20–7 at the प्रारंभ of the चौथी क्वार्टर , एरिज़ोना scored 16 अनुत्तरित अंक , सहित चौड़ी receiver लैरी fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown  reception , to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game .
लकिन the स्टीलर्स marched 78 गज to स्कोर on चौड़ी receiver santonio holmes ' 6-yard  game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left .
Holmes , who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown ,  सहित चार receptions लिये 73 गज on कि फाइनल game-winning ड्राइव ,  was named Super Bowl MVP .
He became the sixth wide receiver  to जीत the पुरस्कार , और भी थी the तीसरा पिट्सबर्ग receiver to जीत the  award , following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward .
Despite the global financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary festivities that  हैं सामान्यतः आयोजित पहले the खेल , the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न संजाल ब्रॉडकास्ट आकर्षित an औसत u.S. दर्शक of 98.7 लाख दर्शक , बनाना  it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point .
A diagram of the electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम , प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार the दायरा of बारंबारता और  wavelengths
the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम is the दायरा of सब  possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning , and is  बजाय the characteristic वितरण of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण उत्सर्जित or अवशोषित by कि particular ऑब्जेक्ट  .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below  the कम बारंबारता प्रयुक्त लिये आधुनिक रेडियो संचार to गामा विकिरण at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) समाप्त , thereby covering wavelengths इससे हज़ारों  of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long  wavelengths is the आकार of the ब्रह्मांड itself , जबकि it is विचार कि the छोटी wavelength सीमा is in the vicinity of the  Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम हैं प्रयुक्त in विज्ञान लिये spectroscopic और अन्य probing interactions  , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In  जोड , विकिरण इससे विभिन्न भाग of the वर्णक्रम रै मिला अनेक अन्य उपयोग लिये संचार और निर्माण  ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
marchantia , a liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer  to सब embryophytes ( जमीन पौधे ) कि do नहीं have सच्चा vascular ऊतक और हैं इसलिए पुकारा  ' non-vascular plants ' .
Some bryophytes do have  specialized ऊतकों लिये the हस्तांतरण of जल ; however चूंकि ये do नहीं contain lignin  , they are not considered to be true vascular tissue .
Currently  bryophytes हैं विचार नहीं to be a प्राकृतिक or monophyletic समूह ; however the नाम is सुविधाजनक और remains  in use as a collective term for mosses , hornworts , and liverworts .
bryophytes उपज enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia और sporangia ) , लकिन वे उपज  neither flowers nor seeds , reproducing via spores .
The term bryophyte  आता इससे यूनानी βρύον , bryon , `` tree-moss , oyster-green '' + φυτόν  - phyton `` plant '' .
A bank is a financial institution  और a वित्तीय intermediary कि स्वीकृत जमा और चैनल्स those जमा into lending क्रियाएँ , either सीधे by loaning  or indirectly through capital markets .
A bank is the connection  between ग्राहक कि have पूंजी deficits  and customers with capital surpluses .
Due to their influence within a  वित्तीय प्रणाली और an अर्थव्यवस्था , बैंको हैं generally अत्यधिक  regulated in most countries .
Most banks operate under a system known as fractional reserve banking  जहाँ वे थाम तभी a छोटी आरक्षित of the निधि deposited और lend आउट the बाकी  for profit .
They are generally subject to minimum  पूंजी आवश्यकताएँ जिससे हैं आधारित on an अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियत of पूंजी  standards , known as the Basel Accords .
The oldest bank still in existence is Monte dei Paschi di Siena ,  headquartered in सियेना , इटली , जिससे रै महरूम ऑपरेटिंग  continuously since 1472 .
It  is followed by berenberg बैंको of हैम्बर्ग ( 1590  ) and Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ) .
Banking  in इसके आधुनिक भाव विकसित in समृद्ध शहरों of पुनर्जागरण  Italy , such as Florence , Venice and Genoa .
In the history of banking , a number of banking dynasties —among them notably Medici , Fugger , Welser , Berenberg  , baring और रोथ्सचाइल्ड —have निभाई a सेंट्रल भूमिका over अनेक सदियां  .
The Xbox is a  वीडियो खेल कंसोल  manufactured by Microsoft .
It was released on November 15 , 2001 in North America , February 22 , 2002 in  जापानी , और कूच 14 , 2002 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और यूरोपीय .
It was Microsoft  's पहला foray into the गेमिंग  console market .
As part of  the sixth-generation of गेमिंग , the एक्सबॉक्स competed साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 2 , sega 's dreamcast ( जिससे रोका अमरीकी बिक्री  before the Xbox went on sale ) , and Nintendo 's GameCube .
The Xbox was the first  कंसोल offered by an अमरीकी कम्पनी बाद the atari जैगुआर रोका बिक्री in  1996 .
The integrated Xbox Live service launched in  नवम्बर 2002 अनुमत खिलाड़ी to खेल खेल ऑनलाइन साथ a ब्रॉडबैंड  connection .
It first competed  साथ dreamcast 's ऑनलाइन सेवा लकिन बाद primarily  competed with PlayStation 2 's online service .
Although these two are  फ़्री जबकि एक्सबॉक्स सजीव जरूरी a सब्सक्रिप्शन , as खूब as broadband-only कनेक्शन जिससे थी नहीं completely अपनाया yet , एक्सबॉक्स सजीव थी a कामयाबी due to बेहतर सर्वर , सुविधाएँ ऐसे as a दोस्त सूची , और पड़ाव  titles like Halo 2 released in November 2004 , which is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years .
Xbox 's  successor , the एक्सबॉक्स 360 , थी शुभारम्भ in नवम्बर  2005 .
The Xbox was  discontinued in लेट 2005 in जापानी जहाँ  sales were poor .
It was  discontinued in लेट 2006 in यूरोपीय और जल्दी  2007 in North America .
The last Xbox game in Europe  थी टोनी हॉक 's प्रोजेक्ट 8 released in नवम्बर 2006 , और the पिछला खेल in उत्तर अमेरिका  was Madden NFL 09 released in August 2008 .
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was  discontinued on कूच 2 , 2009 , stating कि कोई in-warranty मरम्मत अभी needed होगा नहीं  be undertaken .
Xbox access to  एक्सबॉक्स सजीव थी रोका on अप्रैल 15 , 2010  .
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ) , commonly referred to as the  इन्जील of जॉन or बस जॉन और प्रायः referred to in नई वसीयत स्कॉलरशिप as the चौथी  Gospel , is an account of the public ministry of Jesus .
It begins with the witness and  प्रतिज्ञान by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट और concludes साथ the मौत , दफ़न , क़यामत ,  and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus .
This account is fourth of  the canonical gospels , बाद the  synoptics Matthew , Mark and Luke .
राज्य कि the किताब गर्भाशयी इससे the गवाही  of the ' disciple whom Jesus loved . '
Along with Peter , the  बेनाम शिष्य is विशेषकर बंद to यीशु , और early-church परंपरा पहचाना  him as John the Apostle , one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles .
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of  जॉन ऐसे कि टीकाकारों दावत the चार किताबे साथ , yet , according to सबसे आधुनिक विद्वानों , जॉन थी नहीं the लेखक of कोई of  these books .
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more and  अधिक रै लगाई जॉन भीतर a first-century यहूदी कॉन्टेक्स्ट  .
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to trace the  विकास of the परंपरा  from which the gospel arose .
The discourses seem to be concerned with the actual  मुद्दे of the church-and-synagogue बहस at the समय जब  the Gospel was written .
It is notable that  , in the इन्जील , the जातियाँ स्टिल appears to define itself primarily विरूद्ध  Judaism , rather than as part of a wider Christian church .
Though Christianity started as a movement within Judaism , gradually  ईसाइयों और यहूदियों became bitterly opposed  .
John presents a `` higher '' Christology than the synoptics , meaning  कि it describes यीशु as the अवतार of the दैवी लोगो through जिसको सब बाते यहूद बना , as the ऑब्जेक्ट of veneration , और अधिक explicitly  as God incarnate .
Only in John does Jesus talk at  लंबाई परिचय खुद और उसके दैवी भूमिका , प्रायः साझा साथ the शिष्यों तभी  .
Against the synoptics  , जॉन focuses largely on अलग चमत्कार ( सहित resurrecting lazarus ) , दिए as लक्षण meant to engender  faith .
Synoptic  तत्व ऐसे as parables और exorcisms हैं  not found in John .
It presents a  एहसास eschatology in जिससे मोक्ष is already उपस्थित  for the believer .
The Plagues of Egypt ( )  , भी पुकारा the टेन plagues ( ) or the biblical plagues , यहूद टेन calamities कि , according to the biblical किताब of exodus  , Israel 's God , Yahweh , inflicted upon Egypt to persuade Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery .
Pharaoh capitulated  बाद the दसवाँ प्लेग , triggering the exodus of the यहूदी  people .
The plagues  यहूद designed to कंट्रास्ट the शक्ति of yahweh साथ the नपुंसकता  of Egypt 's various gods .
Some commentators have associated several of  the plagues साथ निर्णय on विशिष्ट देवताओं संबद्ध साथ the nile  , fertility and natural phenomena .
the plagues of मिश्र हैं भी उल्लेखित  in the Quran ( 7,133–136 ) .
According  to the किताब of exodus , परमेश्वर proclaims कि सब the देवताओं  of Egypt will be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John  मार्टिन 's पेंटिंग of the प्लेग of  hail and fire ( 1823 ) .
A role-playing  खेल ( आरपीजी और sometimes roleplaying खेल ) is a खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी assume the भूमिकाएँ  of characters in a fictional setting .
Players take responsibility for acting out these roles within a  कथा , either through शाब्दिक एक्टिंग or through a प्रक्रम of संरचित decision-making  or character development .
Actions taken within many games  सफल or असफल according to a औपचारिक प्रणाली of नियम और दिशानिर्देश  .
वहीँ हैं अनेक  forms of RPG .
The original form , sometimes called the tabletop RPG , is conducted through  चर्चा , whereas in सजीव कार्रवाई role-playing खेल ( larp ) खिलाड़ी physically perform उनके वर्ण  ' actions .
In both of these forms , an arranger called a game master ( GM )  प्रायः decides on the नियम और सेटिंग to be प्रयुक्त और अधिनियमों as रेफरी , जबकि प्रत्येक of the अन्य खिलाड़ी plays the भूमिका of a सिंगल अक्षर  .
Several varieties of RPG also exist  in इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मीडिया , ऐसे as multi-player text-based muds और उनके graphics-based successors , massively एकाधिक  online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ) .
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing  वीडियो खेल in जिससे खिलाड़ी कंट्रोल a अक्षर or टोली जो undertake quests , और may शामिल सामर्थ्य कि अग्रिम using सांख्यिकीय यांत्रिकी  .
These games often  share जमावट और नियम साथ tabletop rpgs , लकिन emphasize अक्षर  advancement more than collaborative storytelling .
despite इस किस्में of फ़ॉर्म , कुछ खेल फ़ॉर्म ऐसे as व्यापार कार्ड खेल और wargames कि हैं सम्बन्धित to role-playing खेल  may not be included .
Role-playing activity may  sometimes be उपस्थित in ऐसे खेल , लकिन it is नहीं the प्राथमिक  focus .
The term is  भी sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe लिए सिमुलेशन खेल और exercises प्रयुक्त in  teaching , training , and academic research .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war  लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy  '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in  the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन  of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां किया नहीं  intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South  's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण प्रक्रम of  restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led  by अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त  States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before  उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861 , सात cotton-based  slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic  अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession  as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural  पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं  initiate civil war .
आठ बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी to अस्वीकृत  calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within  territory claimed by the confederacy  .
A Peace Conference  विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह , और दोनो पहलू prepared  for war .
The Confederates assumed  कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate  States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 ,  1861 , जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट  held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to  provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव  states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon  नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी  that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern  थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate  अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of  Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the  emancipation उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति  slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union  नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी , तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the  Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E.  ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल of gettysburg  .
Western successes led  to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना  in 1864 .
In the Western  थिएटर , विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र , destroying confederate  infrastructure along the way .
The  संघ marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों  of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army  विफल , अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत  House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American  सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक  wars .
Railroads , the  टेलीग्राफ , steamships , और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively  .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation  और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed संसार  War I .
It remains the deadliest war in  अमरीकी इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of  civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten  प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged  18–40 .
The  परिभाषा of the संसार 's व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र रै महरूम निर्दिष्ट  by the Airports Council International in Geneva , Switzerland .
the aci defines और उपायों the following  three types of airport traffic:
Passenger traffic :  कुल यात्री emplaned और deplaned , यात्री  in transit counted once
कार्गो ट्रैफ़िक : loaded और मोड भाड़ा और मेल  in metric tonnes
ट्रैफ़िक आंदोलनों : अवतरण और  take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( WWI  ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914  and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was  predominantly पुकारा the संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939 , और the पहला  World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the  allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी , austria-hungary  and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both  reorganised और विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी  and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60  लाख europeans , यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest युद्धों in इतिहास  .
More than 9 million combatants were killed  , largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित  improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the  fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास , subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न  political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term  कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of  the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to  the सिंहासन of austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम  of Serbia .
अनेक alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों  were invoked .
Within weeks  , the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the  conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired  the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of  Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral  बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस , providing a casus belli  for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
बाद the जर्मनी कूच on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled  into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was  कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians , लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट  Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war  , खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस , मेसोपोटामिया और  the Sinai .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया  in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government  collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें साथ  the Central Powers .
बाद a 1918 जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी  forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with  क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर  1918 .
The war  ended in विजय लिये  the Allies .
Events on the home fronts  यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक  resources to fight a total war .
By the  समाप्त of the युद्ध , चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी , रूसी , austro-hungarian  and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The  successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory , जबकि the latter दो  were dismantled entirely .
The map of  सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into  several smaller states .
The League of Nations was  formed in the आशा of preventing  another such conflict .
The  यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires , the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं  with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the  bp आयल spill , the bp आयल विपत्ति , the गल्फ of मैक्सिको आयल spill , और the macondo blowout ) थी an आयल spill in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको on the bp -operated macondo prospect , माना the  largest accidental marine oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry , estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill .
Following the explosion and sinking of  the deepwater क्षितिज आयल रिग , जिससे claimed 11 जीवनदान , a sea-floor आयल gusher flowed unabated लिये 87 दिनों , जबतक it थी capped  on 15 July 2010 .
The total  निर्वहन is अनुमानित  at .
A massive response ensued to protect beaches ,  वेटलैंड्स और मुहानों इससे the spreading आयल utilizing skimmer जहाजों , फ्लोटिंग booms , नियंत्रित  burns and of Corexit oil dispersant .
After several failed efforts  to contain the प्रवाह , the खूब थी घोषित sealed on 19 सितंबर  2010 .
कुछ रिपोर्ट्स indicate the खूब साईट  continues to leak .
Due to the months-long spill , along with adverse effects from the response and  क्लीनअप क्रियाएँ , extensive क्षति to समुद्री और वन्यजीव habitats , फ़िशिंग और पर्यटन उद्योग , और इंसान स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं have जारी through 2013.three सालो बाद the spill , तारकोल गेंदें could स्टिल  be found on the Mississippi coast .
Numerous  investigations छान the कल्याणकारी of the  explosion and record-setting spill .
Notably , the U.S. government 's September 2011 report pointed  to defective सीमेंट on the खूब , faulting ज़्यादातर bp , लकिन भी खूब ऑपरेटर transocean और ठेकेदार halliburton  .
Earlier in 2011 , a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of  cost-cutting निर्णय और an अपर्याप्त सुरक्षा प्रणाली , लकिन भी concluded कि the spill resulted इससे `` प्रणालीगत '' रूट कल्याणकारी और `` अनुपस्थित significant सुधार in दोनो उद्योग practices  and government policies , might well recur '' .
In November 2012 , BP and the United States Department of  इंसाफ settled संघीय दण्ड आरोप साथ bp pleading अपराधी to 11 रिश्तो of  manslaughter , two misdemeanors , and a felony count of lying to Congress .
BP also agreed to  चार सालो of सरकारी निगरानी of इसके सुरक्षा practices और आचार , और the पर्यावरणीय  Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government .
BP and the  विभाग of इंसाफ सहमत to a record-setting $ 4.525 अरब in जुर्माना और अन्य भुगतान लकिन further विधिक कार्यवाही  not expected to conclude until 2014 are ongoing to determine payouts and fines under the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment .
As of February 2013 , criminal and civil settlements  और भुगतान to a विश्वास निधि था लागत the कम्पनी $ 42.2 अरब  .
``  जहाँ the गलियों have  No Name '' is a song by rock band U2 .
It is the opening track from their 1987 album The  जोशुआ पेड़ और थी released as the एल्बम 's तीसरा सिंगल in अगस्त  1987 .
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio  using a विलंब प्रभाव , निभाई दौरान the सोंग 's परिचय  and again at the end .
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that  it is संभावित to पहचानो a व्यक्ति 's धर्म और आय आधारित on the  street on which they lived , particularly in Belfast .
During the band 's difficulties  रिकॉर्डिंग the सोंग , निर्माता ब्रायन eno माना  erasing the song 's tapes to have them start from scratch .
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' was  praised by आलोचकों और became a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी , peaking at क्रमांक तेरह in the us , क्रमांक चौदह in कनाडा , क्रमांक टेन in the  Netherlands , and number four in the United Kingdom .
The song has become one of  the बैंड 's सबसे लोकप्रिय गीतों और रै remained a स्टेपल of उनके सजीव अधिनियम चूंकि the सोंग  debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour .
The song was notably performed on  a लॉस एंजिल्स छत लिये the फिल्मांकन of इसके म्यूज़िक वीडियो , जिससे जीती a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन म्यूज़िक वीडियो  .Recently the song has been used by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born July 9 , 1956 ) is an  अमरीकी कर्ता , निर्माता , लेखक , और निदेशक  .
Hanks is known  लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ in अपोलो 13 , बिग , कि  Thing You Do !
, The Green Mile , You 've Got Mail , Sleepless  in सिएटल , चार्ली विल्सन 's युद्ध , कैच me if तुम can , फॉरेस्ट गंप , डाल दूर , a लीग of उनके अपना , the da विंची कोड , फ़रिश्ते & राक्षसों , as खूब as एनिमेटेड films  like the Toy Story film series , The Polar Express , and The Simpsons Movie .
He has earned and been nominated for numerous awards during his career , including winning a Golden Globe for Best Actor and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in  फिलाडेल्फिया और a सुनहरी ग्लोब , an अकादमी पुरस्कार , a स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं गिल्ड पुरस्कार , और a लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका in फॉरेस्ट गंप , और कमाई the स्टेनली kubrick  Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004 .
Hanks is also  ज्ञात लिये उसके सहयोग साथ फिल्मी निदेशक स्टीवन स्पिलबर्ग on छायांकन निजी रयान और the mini-series  Band of Brothers , which launched Hanks also as a successful director , producer and writer .
As of 2012 , Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 billion at  the संयुक्त राज्य बक्सा दफ्तर अलोन , और over $ 8.5 अरब विश्वव्यापी बनाना उसे the उच्चतम all-time  box office star .
the केप is an अमरीकी सुपरहीरो  drama series .
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season  बदलना शुरूआत साथ a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड on संडे , जनवरी 9 , 2011 at 9 pm पूर्वी और प्रशांत  Time .
An encore played on Monday , January 10 , with follow-up episodes  continuing on सोमवार evenings in the 9 pm timeslot शुरूआत on जनवरी 17  .
NBC  subsequently काटें the कुल क्रमांक of एपीसोड to  be aired from 13 to 10 as a result of low ratings .
On March  2 , 2011 , एनबीसी घोषित कि the श्रेणी finale होता तभी be aired on the संजाल  's website .
Halley 's  धूमकेतु or धूमकेतु हैली ( or ) , officially designated 1p/halley , is the best-known of the  short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years .
Halley is the only short-period comet that is  clearly दृश्य to the नग्न नजर इससे धरती , और यूँ the तभी naked-eye धूमकेतु कि might appear  twice in a human lifetime .
अन्य naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be उज्जवल और अधिक spectacular , लकिन होगा  appear only once in thousands of years .
हैली 's रिटर्न to the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली have महरूम observed और अंकित by खगोलशास्त्रियों चूंकि  at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet  's दिखावे यहूद बना by चाइनीज , babylonian , और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers , लकिन यहूद नहीं पहचाना  as reappearances of the same object at the time .
The comet 's  periodicity थी पहला संकल्पित in 1705 by अंग्रेज़ी astronomer edmond  Halley , after whom it is now named .
Halley 's Comet last  appeared in the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली in 1986 और होगा अगला  appear in mid-2061 .
During its  1986 apparition , हैली became the पहला धूमकेतु to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft , providing the पहला observational  data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet  निर्माण , विशेषकर फ्रेड whipple 's `` गंदा स्नोबॉल '' मॉडल , जिससे correctly पूर्वानुमानित कि हैली होता be रचित of a मिश्रण of volatile ices – ऐसे as जल , कार्बन  dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's  सतह is largely रचित of dusty , non-volatile सामग्री , और कि तभी a छोटी portion of it  is icy .
The following is  a सूची of the सबसे populous incorporated स्थान of the संयुक्त राज्य  of America .
As  पारिभाषित by the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो , an `` incorporated प्लेस ``  includes a variety of designations , including city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
A few  असाधारण जनसांख्यिकी designated स्थान ( cdps ) हैं भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau 's listing of incorporated places .
संचित city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी कि शामिल  the entire population of a county , or county equivalent .
Some consolidated  city-counties , however , शामिल अनेक incorporated  places .
This list presents only that  portion ( or `` संतुलन '' ) of ऐसे संचित city-counties कि हैं नहीं a भाग of another incorporated  place .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within  उनके पारिभाषित हद , जिससे करता नहीं शामिल अन्य municipalities or unincorporated suburban क्षेत्रों भीतर शहरी  agglomerations .
A different ranking  is evident जब considering u.S.  metropolitan area populations .
The Mayflower was the ship that in  1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों , सहित a कोर समूह of separatists ,  to New England .
Their story is one of  travail और अस्तित्व in a हर्ष नई संसार  environment .
A New Zealand forward ( in white ) takes a shot  on लक्ष्य विरूद्ध कैमरून in the 2011  FIFA U-20 World Cup .
Forwards ,  भी ज्ञात as strikers , हैं the खिलाड़ी on a टोली in संघ फ़ुटबॉल जो खेल निकटतम to the opposing टोली 's  goal , and are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals .
This very advanced  स्थिति और इसके सीमित रक्षात्मक जिम्मेदारियों औसत आगे सामान्यतः स्कोर अधिक लक्ष्य  than other players .
This  स्थिति requires प्रज्ञा , गति , और शक्ति , दोनो of निष्पादन  and of thought , to perform the role well .
Modern team  formations प्रायः शामिल एक to तीन आगे ;  two is the most common .
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an advanced position ( the  केन्द्र आगे ) , और another attacking आगे जो plays somewhat deeper और assists in बनाना लक्ष्य as खूब as स्कोरिंग ( the दूसरी  striker ) .
it चाहिए be विख्यात कि अंदर आगे develop इससे attacking  midfield positions and hence are naturally midfielders .
बार्सिलोना fc स्टार लियोनेल मेस्सी is a ठेठ attacking मिडफील्डर  seen as a forward due to his shot accuracy .
a कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू साझेदारी is a विधिक संबंध उपलब्धियाँ to same-sex युगल , और to निश्चित  opposite-sex couples in which at least one party is at least 18 years of age .
It affords the couple `` the  वही अधिकारों , protections , और लाभ , और ... the वही जिम्मेदारियों  , obligations , and duties under law ... '' as married spouses .
Enacted in 1999 , the domestic  साझेदारी रजिस्ट्री थी the पहला of इसके दयालु in the  United States created by a legislature without court intervention .
Initially , domestic  partnerships enjoyed बहुत few privileges—principally बस hospital-visitation अधिकारों और the सही to be claimed  as a next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner .
The legislature has since expanded the scope of California  घरेलू partnerships to शामिल सब of the अधिकारों और जिम्मेदारियों  common to marriage .
As such , California domestic  partnerships हैं functionally समतुल्य to सिविल संघ offered in अनेक  other states .
Although  the कार्यक्रम enjoys व्यापक support in कैलिफ़ोर्निया , it रै महरूम  the source of some controversy .
Groups  opposed to the मान्यता of same-sex परिवारों  have challenged the expansion of domestic partnerships in court .
Conversely , advocates of same-sex marriage contend that  anything कम than पूरा विवाह अधिकारों विस्तारित to same-sex साझेदार is analogous to the `` पृथक लकिन बराबर '' जातिगत कानून of the  Jim Crow era .
Mark A. Jackson ( born April 1 ,  1965 ) is an अमरीकी बास्केट कोच , और पूर्व खिलाड़ी जो is the वर्तमान  head coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA .
A point guard from St. John 's University , he  निभाई लिये the नई यॉर्क knicks , इंडियाना पेसर्स , लॉस एंजिल्स क्लिपर्स , डेनवर टेंडर्स , टोरंटो रैपटर्स , यूटा जैज़ और ह्यूस्टन  Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning from 1987 to 2004 .
Jackson has also worked as a commentator for  ईएसपीएन और एबीसी alongside उसके पूर्व कोच जेफ़ वैन gundy और play-by-play man माइक  Breen .
He was previously an NBA  विश्लेषक लिये the यस संजाल 's नई जर्सी  Nets games .
South Africa has eleven official languages : Afrikaans ,  अंग्रेज़ी , ndebele , उत्तरी sotho , sotho , swazi , tswana , सोंगा , venda  , Xhosa and Zulu .
Fewer than two percent of  दक्षिण africans बोलो a पहला भाषा  other than an official one .
सबसे दक्षिण africans can बोलो  more than one language .
Dutch and English were the  पहला आधिकारिक भाषाएं of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी इससे  1910 to 1925 .
अफ्रीकी थी added as a भाग of डच  in 1925 .
Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans when South Africa became a republic  in 1961 , और डच थी dropped in 1983 , so between 1983 और 1994 , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी था दो आधिकारिक भाषाएं :  English and Afrikaans .
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by  the names in those भाषाएं : isizulu , isixhosa , अफ्रीकी , sepedi ( referring to उत्तरी sotho ) , setswana , अंग्रेज़ी  , Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ) , Xitsonga , Siswati , Tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ) .
In South Africa , Southern Ndebele is known  बस as ndebele , as सबसे अध्यक्षों of उत्तरी ndebele  live in Zimbabwe .
The 1993 version of the Constitution  referred to उत्तरी sotho as sesotho sa leboa , लकिन the 1996 संस्करण referred to the  language as Sepedi .
Different government  विभाग और आधिकारिक लाशें उपयोग अलग शर्तें to denote उत्तरी  Sotho .
The  प्रमुख भाषा of सरकारी is अंग्रेज़ी भी if दक्षिण africans प्रायः  take pride in using indigenous languages for any purpose .
Afrikaans also features prominently  in कॉमर्स साथ साथ अंग्रेज़ी as the भाषाएं साथ the उच्चतम क्रमांक  of fluent speakers are Afrikaans and English .
In terms of linguistic classification ,  the आधिकारिक भाषाएं शामिल दो west-germanic भाषाएं ( अंग्रेज़ी और अफ्रीकी ) और नौ bantu  languages .
Four of these are Nguni languages ( Zulu , Xhosa , Swati and Ndebele ) and three are  sotho–tswana भाषाएं ( उत्तरी sotho , दक्षिणी sotho और tswana  ) .
सोंगा is a tswa–ronga भाषा  .
दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी चिह्न भाषा is a पृथक हालांकि incompletely उभरा नेशनल मानक भाषा जिससे  also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects .
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and  नाइट्रिक एसिड , मौजूदा सामान्यतः as a crystalline हाइड्रेट , सबसे commonly as एल्युमिनियम  nitrate nonahydrate , Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O .
The New York Jets are a  पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल टोली headquartered in florham पार्क , नई जर्सी , representing  the New York metropolitan area .
The team  is a सदस्य of the पूर्वी प्रभाग of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc  ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
In a unique arrangement for the league , the  jets share metlife स्टेडियम in ईस्ट रदरफोर्ड , नई जर्सी साथ the नई  York Giants .
The franchise is legally  और corporately पंजीकृत as नई यॉर्क jets , llc  .
The team was founded in 1959 as the Titans of New York , an  असली सदस्य of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल लीग ; बाद , the मताधिकार joined the एनएफएल in  the AFL–NFL merger .
The team began  to खेल in 1960 at the पोलो grounds  .
Under new  स्वामित्व , the वर्तमान नाम थी अपनाया in 1963 और the मताधिकार थी relocated to shea स्टेडियम in  1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984 .
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete  in सुपर कटोरी iii जहाँ वे पराजित the बाल्टीमोर कोल्टस , बनने the पहला afl टोली to शिकस्त an एनएफएल क्लबों  in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game .
Since 1968 , the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen  टाइम्स , और in the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार टाइम्स , सबसे recently खोने to the पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स  in 2010 .
However , the Jets have never returned to the  सुपर कटोरी , बनाना उन्हें एक of तीन एनएफएल टीमों to जीत उनके लोन सुपर कटोरी रूप , साथ साथ the नई ऑरलियन्स  Saints and Tampa Bay Buccaneers .
The team 's training facility , Atlantic Health Jets  प्रशिक्षण बीच , जिससे खोली in 2008 , is स्तिथ in florham पार्क  .
The team currently holds their annual training camp sessions on the campus of the  राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई यॉर्क at cortland in cortland , नई यॉर्क जबकि पकड़कर occasional  sessions at the Florham Park complex .
psilocybe semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms , also known as psychedelic  मशरूम , हैं fungi कि contain psychoactive indole alkaloids  .
There are multiple  colloquial शर्तें लिये psilocybin मशरूम , the  most common being shrooms and magic mushrooms .
Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe ,  conocybe , copelandia , galerina , gerronema , gymnopilus , hypholoma , inocybe , mycena , panaeolus  , Pluteus , and Psilocybe .
There are approximately 190  प्रजाति of psilocybin मशरूम और सबसे  of them fall in the genus Psilocybe .
Psilocybin mushrooms have likely  महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्रागैतिहासिक टाइम्स और may have  been depicted in rock art .
Many cultures have  प्रयुक्त ये मशरूम in धार्मिक संस्कार  .
In  आधुनिक पश्चिमी समाज वे हैं प्रयुक्त  recreationally for their psychedelic effects .
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins School of  आयुर्विज्ञान conclude कि जब प्रयुक्त properly , psilocybin अधिनियमों as an anti-depressant as सुझाया  by fMRI brain scans .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest extremity of the North  अमरीकी महाद्वीप , साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट , the आर्कटिक समंदर to the उत्तर , और the प्रशांत समंदर to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण , साथ रूस further  west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the  largest राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य by क्षेत्रफल , the 4th तनिक populous  and the least densely populated of the 50 United States .
लगभग हाफ of अलास्का 's 731,449 निवासियों सजीव भीतर  the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is  वर्चस्व by the आयल , प्राकृतिक गैस , और फ़िशिंग उद्योग  ; it has these resources in abundance .
Alaska was purchased from Russia on  कूच 30 , 1867 , लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) at लगभग  two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized  ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11 , 1912 , और the 49th राज्य of the u.S. on जनवरी 3 ,  1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in  the रूसी औपनिवेशिक काल , जब it थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq , अर्थ `` the मेनलैंड '' or , अधिक वस्तुतः , `` the ऑब्जेक्ट towards जिससे  the action of the sea is directed '' .
It is also known as Alyeska , the ``  ग्रेट जमीन '' , an aleut शब्द निकला इससे the वही  root .
The 101 French  विभाग हैं विभाजित into 342 arrondissements , जिससे may be अनूदित  into English as districts .
the पूंजी of an arrondissement/district  is called a subprefecture .
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the department ,  कि प्रीफ़ेक्चर is the पूंजी of the arrondissement , एक्टिंग दोनो as  a prefecture and as a subprefecture .
Arrondissements are further  विभाजित into cantons और communes .
The vagina ( from Latin  vāgīna , वस्तुतः `` म्यान '' or `` म्यान `` ) is a tubular ट्रैक्ट जिससे is a sex अंग और रै  two main functions ; sexual intercourse and childbirth .
In humans , this passage leads from the opening of the  भग to the गर्भाशय ( गर्भ ) , लकिन the vaginal ट्रैक्ट ends at  the cervix .
Unlike  मेन , जो have तभी एक genital orifice , महिलाओं have दो , the urethra  and the vagina .
The vaginal opening is  much larger than the urethral खोलने , और दोनो उद्घाटन  are protected by the labia .
The inner mould of  the योनि रै a foldy बनावट जिससे can बनाएँ  friction for the penis during intercourse .
During arousal , the vagina gets  नम to सुकर the प्रवेश of the  penis .
The Latinate  बहुवचन `` vaginae '' is rarely प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेज़ी  .
Colloquially , the word  योनि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to the भग or to the मादा गुप्तांग  in general .
however , by इसके शब्दकोष और anatomical परिभाषाएं , योनि refers  exclusively to the specific internal structure .
The Cincinnati Reds are a  प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in सिनसिनाटी  , Ohio .
They are  सदस्यों of the नेशनल लीग सेंट्रल  Division .
Established in 1881 as an independent club , the team became a charter  सदस्य of the अमरीकी संघ in 1882 , और joined the नेशनल लीग  in 1890 .
The club  traditionally traces इसके उत्पत्ति to बेसबॉल 's  first openly professional team in 1869 .
the लाल have जीती पाँच संसार श्रेणी शीर्षक , एक अमरीकी संघ  pennant , nine National League pennants and ten division titles .
The Reds played in the National League West  between 1969 और 1993 और have महरूम in the नेशनल लीग सेंट्रल  since 1994 .
Since 2003 , the  लाल have निभाई at ग्रेट अमरीकी बॉल पार्क , निर्मित अगला  to their home from 1970 to 2002 , Riverfront Stadium .
Bob Castellini  रै स्वामित्व the सिनसिनाटी लाल  since 2006 .
A  शरारत बदबू बमबारी  .
A stink bomb is a  यंत्र designed to  create an unpleasant smell .
They range  in प्रभावकारिता इससे सरल pranks to सैन्य ग्रेड malodorants  or riot control chemical agents .
the गिनीज किताब of रिकॉर्ड सूचियाँ  two smelliest substances .
One is `` US Government  मानक बाथरूम malodor '' ; a मिश्रण of आठ रसायन साथ a stench resembling इंसान मल  , only much stronger , designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners .
another एक , `` जो me ? `` , is a मिश्रण of पाँच sulfur-containing रसायन और खुश्बू  like rotting food and carcasses .
the कहावत `` a चित्र is लायक a हजार शब्द '' refers to the ख़्याल कि  a complex idea can be conveyed with just a single still image .
It also aptly characterizes  एक of the प्रमुख लक्ष्य of कल्पना , namely बनाना  it possible to absorb large amounts of data quickly .
The expression  `` उपयोग a चित्र  .
It 's worth a thousand  शब्द . '' appears in a 1911 समाचारपत्र आलेख quoting समाचारपत्र एडिटर आर्थर ब्रिसबेन discussing पत्रकारिता और publicity  .
1913 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन
A similar phrase , `` One Look Is Worth A  हजार शब्द '' , appears in a 1913 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन लिये the piqua स्वचालित सप्लाई  House of Piqua , Ohio .
An early use of the exact phrase appears in an  1918 समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन लिये the सैन अंतोनियो लाइट जिससे says : एक of the स्वदेश 's महानतम सम्पादक says : एक चित्र is लायक  a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the War Exemplifies the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers .
It is believed by some that the modern use of the  phrase तना इससे an आलेख by फ्रेड R. बर्नार्ड in the विज्ञापन व्यापार जर्नल मुद्रक ' स्याही , promoting the उपयोग of बिंब in  advertisements that appeared on the sides of streetcars .
The December 8 , 1921  समस्या carries an ad हकदार , `` एक dekh is लायक a हजार  Words . ''
Another ad by Barnard appears  in the कूच 10 , 1927 समस्या साथ the phrase `` एक चित्र लायक टेन हजार शब्द , '' जहाँ it is labeled a चाइनीज  proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ) .
The Home Book of  proverbs , maxims , और परिचित वाक्यांश उद्धरण बर्नार्ड as saying he पुकारा it `` a  Chinese proverb , so that people would take it seriously . ''
Soon after , the  कहावत होता become popularly attributed  to Confucius .
The discussion of `` One Picture Worth Thousand Words '' versus `` One Picture  लायक टेन हजार शब्द '' wan येन i hua और 10.000 मील लायक 10.000 किताबे is cited  in Information graphics where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures .
A  चित्र is लायक a हजार  words
despite इस आधुनिक उत्पत्ति of the लोकप्रिय phrase , the भावना  has been expressed by earlier writers .
लिये उदाहरण the रूसी लेखक इवान तुर्गेन्येव लिखा ( in fathers और बेटे  in 1862 ) , `` A picture shows me at a glance what it takes dozens of pages of a book to expound . ''
Computer programmer and  लेखक फ्रेड ब्रूक्स makes an विपरीत बयान regarding प्रोग्रामिंग in the mythical man-month : `` दिखाएँ me अपना flowcharts और  conceal your tables , and I shall continue to be mystified .
Show me your  टेबल , और i won’t प्रायः need अपना flowcharts ; they’ll  be obvious . ''
The phrase has also been spoofed  by जॉन मैकार्थी , the प्रसिद्ध कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक , to मेक the विपरीत पाइंट  : `` As the Chinese say , 1001 words is worth more than a picture . ''
A  ऋतु is a subdivision of the साल , चिह्नित by परिवर्तन in मौसम  , ecology , and hours of daylight .
Seasons result from the yearly revolution  of the धरती around the सूर्य और the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष सापेक्ष to the  plane of revolution .
In temperate and polar regions , the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth  's सतह , विसंगतियाँ of जिससे may कारण पशु to go into शीतनिष्क्रियता or to migrate , और पौधे to be dormant  .
During  may , जून और जुलाई , the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is उजागर to अधिक सीधा धूप क्युकी  the hemisphere faces the sun .
The  वही is सच्चा of the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध in नवम्बर  , December and January .
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to  be उच्चतर in the आसमान दौरान the गर्मियाँ महीने जिससे increases the सौर फ्लक्स  .
However , due to seasonal  lag , जून , जुलाई और अगस्त हैं the hottest महीने in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और दिसम्बर , जनवरी और फ़रवरी  are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere .
In temperate and subpolar regions , generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their  adjectives ) हैं पहचाना : वसन्त ( vernal ) , गर्मियाँ ( estival ) , पतझड़ ( autumnal ) और शीत ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate  regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal ) और लेट गर्मियाँ ( serotinal ) as पृथक सीज़न  along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet , or monsoon )  ऋतु और the शुष्क ऋतु , और in कुछ तीव्र क्षेत्रों , a कूल or mild  season .
In some parts of the  संसार , खास `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम ऐसे as a hurricane  season , tornado season or a wildfire season .
The six  ecological सीज़न
The four calendar seasons ,  चित्रित in an प्राचीन रोमन मोज़ेक इससे ट्यूनीशिया
डच निर्यात  in 2006
At the time of writing the  नीदरलैंड्स is the 17th largest अर्थव्यवस्था of the  world .
( see :  सूची of देशों by जीडीपी ( नाममात्र  ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in  the शीर्ष 10 of richest राष्ट्र in the संसार ( देखिए : सूची of देशों by जीडीपी ( ppp  ) per capita ) .
Between 1996 and 2000  सालाना आर्थिक विकास ( जीडीपी ) averaged over 4 % , खूब ऊपर  the European average .
Growth slowed  considerably in 2001-05 as भाग of the वैश्विक  economic slowdown .
2006 and 2007 however  दिखाया आर्थिक विकास of 3.4 % और 3.9  % .
The Dutch economy was hit  considerably by the जारी वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट और the ensuing यूरोपीय  debt crisis .
Several banks  गई दिवालिया , और a क्रमांक of अन्य था  to receive governmental aid .
In 2009 the economy  अस्वीकृत साथ 3.5 % , followed by दो सालो of mild विकास  .
The Dutch economy is  फिलहाल in a मंदी again , साथ an आर्थिक मनाही of 0.5 % in 2012  .
Inflation  is at 3.2 % in फ़रवरी 2013 .
Unemployment has  महरूम अपेक्षाकृत कम compared to अन्य eu राष्ट्र लिये दशकों लकिन बाद mid-2012 it रै  seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 % .
the नीदरलैंड्स प्रबंधित to maintain इसके aaa  rating at least until March 2013 according to the three major credit rating agencies .
historically , the डच introduced और invented the भण्डार मार्केट by the merchandise व्यापार  through Dutch West India Company .
The Netherlands is a  founding सदस्य of the यूरोपीय संघ , the oecd और  the World Trade Organization .
Loyal to the  खेल is the दसवाँ स्टुडियो एल्बम और छठे स्टुडियो  album by Tupac Shakur .
It contains remixes of previously  unreleased म्यूज़िक अंकित by shakur पहले उसके मौत in  1996 .
Released  in the संयुक्त राज्य on दिसम्बर 14 , 2004 ( दिसम्बर 12 in the संयुक्त किंगडम  ) , Loyal to the Game was produced by Eminem .
The original panel of The  दृश्य ; मेरेडिथ vieira , स्टार जोन्स , डिब्बी matenopoulos  and Barbara Walters in 1997 .
The View  is an अमरीकी बात दिखाएँ ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी कि debuted in 1997 as भाग  of the network 's daytime programming block .
Created by Barbara  walters और विधेयक geddie , जो दोनो भी serve as the दिखाएँ 's कार्यपालिका निर्माता  , the program features a panel of women as co-hosts .
Along with Walters , the  वर्तमान फलक शामिल whoopi गोल्डबर्ग , जो serves as the मॉडरेटर , आनन्द  Behar , Elisabeth Hasselbeck , and Sherri Shepherd .
International versions of the  कार्यक्रम हैं aired in अनेक देशों  .
As of the 2012–13 season , its 16th , The View is the  fourth-longest कार्यशील नेशनल दिन बात दिखाएँ in इतिहास , पीछे the फिल donahue दिखाएँ ( 29 ) , the variously-named  Live !
कार्यक्रम ( 25 ) , और the  Oprah Winfrey Show ( 25 ) .
Prunus virginiana , commonly called  bitter-berry , chokecherry , वर्जिनिया बर्ड चेरी और पश्चिमी chokecherry ( भी ब्लैक chokecherry लिये P. virginiana var . demissa ) , is a प्रजाति of बर्ड चेरी ( prunus subgenus  Padus ) native to North America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana includes most of the continent , except for the far north and far south .
Los Angeles International Airport is the primary  विमानक्षेत्र सेवारत the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल , the second-most आबादी  metropolitan area in the United States .
It is most often referred to by its  iata विमानक्षेत्र कोड lax , साथ the अक्षर सुनाया  individually .
lax is स्तिथ in southwestern लॉस एंजिल्स साथ the प्रशांत coast in the पड़ोस of westchester , इससे the शहर कोर और is the प्राथमिक विमानक्षेत्र of लॉस एंजिल्स संसार एयरपोर्ट ( lawa ) , an एजेंसी of  the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports .
In 2011 , LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the world  बाद hartsfield-jackson अटलांटा अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , बीजिंग पूंजी अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , लंदन हीथ्रो  Airport , Chicago O'Hare International Airport , and Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers .
The airport holds the claim for `` the world 's busiest  उत्पत्ति और गंतव्य ( o & d ) विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011 कि involves non-connecting यात्री ट्रैफ़िक .
It is also the only  विमानक्षेत्र to रैंक among the शीर्ष पाँच  U.S. airports for both passenger and cargo traffic .
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area , but other  एयरपोर्ट सहित bob आशा विमानक्षेत्र , जॉन वेन विमानक्षेत्र , long बीच विमानक्षेत्र , la/ontario अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , और ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र  also serve the region .
LAX is also the  व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the वेस्ट coast of the संयुक्त राज्य in शर्तें of उड़ान परिचालन , यात्री ट्रैफ़िक और एयर कार्गो कार्यकलाप  , leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim `` .
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24 , 1976 ) is an American  फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the डेनवर broncos of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल  ) .
He  निभाई लिये the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस लिये 14 सीज़न  from 1998 to 2011 .
He is the son of former NFL quarterback  आर्ची मैनिंग और an elder bhai of नई यॉर्क दिग्गज क्वार्टरबैक  Eli Manning .
Manning played college  फ़ुटबॉल लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों of टेनेसी , अग्रणी the स्वयंसेवक to the 1997 सेक चैंपियनशिप  in his senior season .
However , No . 3 Tennessee lost to the No . 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in  the नारंगी कटोरी giving नेब्रास्का और tom ओसबोर्न उनके 3rd नेशनल चैंपियनशिप  in 4 years .
He was chosen by the  इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस साथ the पहला overall चुनें in the 1998 एनएफएल  Draft .
From 1998 to 2010 , he led the Colts to eight ( seven AFC South and one AFC  ईस्ट ) प्रभाग championships , दो afc championships , और to a सुपर कटोरी  championship ( Super Bowl XLI ) .
He has won a  रिकार्ड चार लीग सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार , थी the सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of सुपर कटोरी xli , रै महरूम नामित to बारह प्रो प्याले , रै  twelve 4,000-yard passing seasons , and is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ) .
In 2009 , he was named the best player in the NFL  और फॉक्स खेल साथ साथ खेल illustrated नामित उसे the एनएफएल खिलाड़ी  of the decade of the 2000s .
In May 2011 , he  underwent गर्दन सर्जरी to alleviate गर्दन पीड़ा और भुजा कमज़ोरी he dealt साथ दौरान the पिछला few सीज़न पहले हस्ताक्षर a five-year , $ 90  million contract extension with the Colts in July 2011 .
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011 season , but in September  2011 , he underwent a much अधिक गंभीर दूसरी सर्जरी : a स्तर एक सर्वाइकल संलयन  procedure .
Manning had never missed an NFL game in  उसके करियर , लकिन थी मजबूर to मिस the संपूर्ण 2011 ऋतु  .
he थी released by the कोल्टस on कूच 7 , 2012 , और बाद an लगभग two-week काल जहाँ he visited  with and worked out for several NFL teams , he signed with the Denver Broncos on March 20 , 2012 .
Manning 's pre-snap routine has earned him the nickname , `` The Sheriff  '' और is एक of the सबसे recognizable और parodied in the एनएफएल .
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost exclusive use of the  hurry-up ठोकर led to मैनिंग using an सरणी of इशारों और मौखिक कमांड to कॉल the खेल at the लकीर  of scrimmage rather than in the huddle .
The America Tower of the  अमरीकी सामान्य बीच , the मुख्यालय  of Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes is one  of the संसार 's largest oilfield  services companies .
It operates in over 90 countries ,  providing the आयल और गैस उद्योग साथ उत्पाद और सेवाएं लिये खुदाई , गठन मूल्यांकन , पूर्णता , उत्पादन और  reservoir consulting .
Baker Hughes has its  मुख्यालय in the अमेरिका मीनार in the अमरीकी सामान्य  Center in Neartown , Houston .
Baker Hughes Incorporated  थी formed जब बेकर अंतरराष्ट्रीय और ह्यूजेस औजार कम्पनी मिलाया in 1987  .
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with major offices in Liverpool , United  किंगडम ; सिंगापुर ; दुबई ; a शोध और मेंटेनेंस सुविधा in celle , जर्मनी ; lafayette , louisiana ; ह्यूस्टन , टेक्सास ; pescara , इटली ; और  Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia .
The company is administered broadly in two hemispheres : the eastern hemisphere with five regions ( Europe ,  अफ़्रीकी , the मध्य ईस्ट , एशिया प्रशांत और russia/caspian ) और the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध साथ चार regions ( कनाडा , us जमीन , us गल्फ , और  Latin America ) .
Each of these  regions is subdivided into बाज़ार  .
The United States one-  cent सिक्का , commonly ज्ञात as a पैनी , is a ईकाई of करेंसी equaling  one one-hundredth of a United States dollar .
The cent 's  प्रतीक is ¢  .
Its obverse has featured  the प्रोफ़ाइल of अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln चूंकि 1909 , the  centennial of his birth .
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial  of lincoln 's जनम ) to 2008 , the रिवर्स प्रदर्शित  the Lincoln Memorial .
Four different  रिवर्स डिजाइन in 2009 सम्मानित lincoln 's 200th जन्मदिवस और a नई  , permanent reverse – the Union Shield – was introduced in 2010 .
The coin is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm  ) in व्यास और 0.061 इंच ( 1.55 mm ) in  thickness .
The U.S. Mint  's आधिकारिक नाम लिये a पैनी is `` '' और the u.S. राजकोष 's आधिकारिक नाम  is `` one cent piece '' .
The colloquial term penny derives from the British coin of  the वही नाम , the pre-decimal संस्करण of जिससे था a समान मान  .
in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी , कौड़ी is the बहुवचन रूप , अन्य बहुवचन फ़ॉर्म पेंस और पेशाब ( मानक उपयोग in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी  ) are not used .
As of 2012 , it costs the U.S. Mint 2.00  सेंट to मेक a cent क्युकी of the लागत of सामग्री और उत्पादन  .
This figure includes the Mint’s fixed  components लिये वितरण और fabrication , अनुमानित at  $ 13 million in FY 2011 .
It also  शामिल मिंट ओवरहेड आबंटित to the पैनी , जिससे थी  $ 17.7 million for 2011 .
Fixed costs and overhead would have  to be अवशोषित by अन्य circulating सिक्के बगैर the पैनी  .
The loss in profitability due to producing the one cent coin  in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये the साल of 2012 थी $ 58,000,000  .
This was a slight decrease from 2011  , the साल पहले , जिससे था a उत्पादन घाटा of $ 60,200,000  .
or more specifically , are ornamental varieties of domesticated  आम कार्प ( cyprinus carpio ) कि हैं रखा लिये सजावटी उद्देश्य in बाहरी कोई  ponds or water gardens .
Koi varieties are  विशिष्ट by coloration , patterning , और scalation  .
कुछ of the प्रमुख रंगों हैं श्वेत , ब्लैक , रेड  , yellow , blue , and cream .
The  सबसे लोकप्रिय श्रेणी of कोई is the gosanke , जिससे is बना up of  the Kohaku , Taisho Sanshoku , and Showa Sanshoku varieties .
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the  संघीय सरकारी , परिचय 5,000 कर्मचारी of the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , और a few सौ निजी सेक्टर कर्मचारी , ज़्यादातर in और around संघीय सुविधाएं  .
AFGE is the largest union for  civilian , non- डाक संघीय कर्मचारी और the largest संघ लिये ज़िला of कोलंबिया कर्मचारी जो रपट सीधे  to the mayor ( i.e. , outside of D.C. public schools ) .
It is  संबद्ध साथ the afl-cio  .
A late  सिल्यूरियन sporangium  .
Green : A  spore tetrad  .
ब्लू : a spore bearing a trilete  mark – the -shaped scar .
The spores  हैं परिचय 30-35 μm आरपार
The evolution of plants has  resulted in increasing स्तर of जटिलता , इससे  the earliest algal mats , through bryophytes , lycopods , ferns to the complex gymnosperms and angiosperms of today .
जबकि अनेक of the समूह जिससे appeared पहले continue to thrive , विशेषकर in the environments in जिससे वे विकसित , लिये a  time each new grade of organisation became more `` successful '' than its predecessors .
In the  ordovician काल , around , the  first land plants appeared .
These began to  diversify in the लेट सिल्यूरियन काल , around , और the परिणाम of उनके diversification  are displayed in remarkable detail in an early Devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert .
This  chert preserved जल्दी पौधे in सेल्यूलर विवरण , petrified  in volcanic springs .
By the middle of the Devonian Period , most of the features recognised in plants today are present  , सहित जड़ें , पत्ते और द्वितीयक लकडी ; और , by लेट devonian टाइम्स , बीज  had evolved .
Late  devonian पौधे था thereby पहुँचे a उपाधि of परिष्कार  that allowed them to form forests of tall trees .
Evolutionary  नवीनता जारी into the carboniferous काल  and is still ongoing today .
Most plant groups were relatively unscathed by the Permo-Triassic extinction event ,  हालांकि the structures of समुदायों बदला  .
This may have set the scene for the appearance of the flowering  पौधे in the triassic ( ~ ) , और उनके बाद diversification in the cretaceous और paleogene  .
The latest major group of plants to evolve  यहूद the grasses , जिससे became महत्वपूर्ण in the mid-paleogene , इससे around  .
The grasses , as well as many other  समूह , विकसित नई mechanisms of चयापचय to जीवित the कम और गरम ,  dry conditions of the tropics over the last .
The winning  सुपर कटोरी टोली receives the विंस  Lombardi Trophy .
The Super Bowl is an annual American  फ़ुटबॉल खेल कि determines the चैंपियन of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल  ) .
The contest is held  in an अमरीकी नगर कि is चुनी तीन to चार सालो beforehand , प्रायः  in warm-weather or domed sites .
Since 1971 , the  विजेता of the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल रै faced the विजेता of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल in the culmination  of the NFL playoffs .
Before the 1970 merger  between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( afl ) और the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) , the two leagues met in four such contests .
The first two were known as the ``  afl-nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप खेल .  ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first such game  कि carried the `` सुपर कटोरी '' moniker , the names `` सुपर कटोरी i `` और `` सुपर कटोरी ii `` यहूद retroactively  applied to the first two games .
The NFC /NFL leads in Super Bowl wins with  25 , जबकि the afc /afL रै जीती 22  .
Eighteen different  franchises , सहित टीमों कि relocated to another नगर , have जीती the सुपर कटोरी  .
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the  सबसे सुपर प्याले साथ छह championships ( रिकार्ड 6–2 ) , जबकि दोनो the डलास cowboys और सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers have पाँच विन्स प्रत्येक ( cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers  5–1 ) .
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most Super  कटोरी दिखावे साथ आठ , जबकि the भैंस बिल्स have the सबसे लगातार  appearances with four losses in a row from 1990 to 1993 .
The New England Patriots , Denver  broncos और मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स have भी खोया a रिकार्ड चार सुपर  Bowls .
Buffalo and  मिनेसोटा हैं दोनो 0–4 , डेनवर is 2–4 और  New England is 3–4 .
The record for consecutive wins is two and is shared by seven franchises : the 1966-67 Green Bay Packers , the 1972-73  मियामी डॉल्फिन , the 1974-75 और 1978-79 पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स ( the तभी टोली to accomplish इस feat twice ) , the 1988-89 सैन फ्रांसिस्को 49ers , the 1992-93 डलास cowboys , the 1997-98 डेनवर  Broncos , and the 2003-04 New England Patriots .
The only team with multiple Super Bowl appearances and no losses is the Baltimore  ravens , जो in जीतना सुपर कटोरी xlvii unseated और replaced the 49ers in कि स्थिति  .
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a Super Bowl , including  मताधिकार relocations और renaming : the क्लीवलैंड भूरा , डेट्रॉयट शेर , jacksonville jaguars , और ह्यूस्टन texans , हालांकि दोनो the भूरा  and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl .
Martin County is a  काउंटी स्तिथ in the u.S. राज्य  of Texas .
As of the  2010 जनसांख्यिकी , इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी  4,799 .
Its  सीट is stanton  .
The county is  नामित लिये wylie मार्टिन , an जल्दी settler  .
Martin County is one of 30  निषेध , or entirely शुष्क , काउंटी in  the state of Texas .
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP , ALKP ) ( ) is a  hydrolase एंजाइम जिम्मेदार लिये निकालना फास्फेट समूह इससे अनेक  types of molecules , including nucleotides , proteins , and alkaloids .
The process of removing the  फास्फेट समूह is पुकारा dephosphorylation  .
As the name suggests ,  क्षारीय phosphatases हैं सबसे प्रभावी in  an alkaline environment .
It  is sometimes प्रयुक्त synonymously as मौलिक  phosphatase .
Triticale ( ×  triticosecale ) , ( ) is a संकर of गेहूं (  Triticum ) and rye ( Secale ) first bred in laboratories during the late 19th century .
The grain  थी originally करवाया in स्कॉटलैंड  and Sweden .
Commercially available triticale is almost  सदा a दूसरी पीढी संकर , i.e. , a क्रॉस between दो kinds of प्राथमिक ( पहला क्रॉस ) triticales  .
As a rule , triticale combines the yield potential and grain quality of wheat with the  बीमारी और पर्यावरणीय सहिष्णुता ( सहित मृदा शर्तें  ) of rye .
तभी recently रै it महरूम विकसित into a commercially  viable crop .
Depending on the  cultivar , triticale can अधिक or कम resemble either  of its parents .
it is grown ज़्यादातर लिये forage or चारा , हालांकि कुछ triticale-based भोजन can be खरीदा at स्वास्थ्य  food stores or are to be found in some breakfast cereals .
When crossing wheat and rye , wheat is used as the female  जनक और rye as the पुरूष जनक ( पराग दाता  ) .
The resulting  संकर is बंध्य , और जरूर be treated साथ colchicine to induce polyploidy और यूँ the क्षमता  to reproduce itself .
The primary producers of triticale are  कैंडल , जर्मनी , फ़्रांस , बेलारूस और ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
In 2009 ,  according to the खाना और कृषि संगठन ( fao ) , 15.0 लाख टन यहूद harvested in 29 देशों  across the world .
the triticale संकरण हैं सब amphidiploid , जिससे अर्थात् the संयंत्र is द्विगुणित लिये दो  genomes derived from different species .
In other  शब्द , triticale is an allotetraploid  .
In earlier years  , सबसे कार्य थी किया on octoploid  triticale .
Different  ploidy स्तर have महरूम निर्मित  and evaluated over time .
The tetraploids showed little promise , but  hexaploid triticale थी कामयाब पर्याप्त to ढूँढें वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग  .
The CIMMYT triticale  सुधार कार्यक्रम चाही to improve खाना उत्पादन और पोषण  in developing countries .
Triticale has  संभावित in the उत्पादन of ब्रैड और अन्य खाना उत्पाद , ऐसे as कुकीज़  , pasta , pizza dough and breakfast cereals .
The protein  सामग्री is उच्चतर than कि of गेहूं , हालांकि the  glutenin fraction is less .
The  अनाज रै भी महरूम stated to have उच्चतर स्तर  of lysine than wheat .
Assuming increased acceptance , the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale ,  as the मिलिंग तकनीकों employed लिये गेहूं हैं मुलम्मा to triticale  .
Sell et al  . मिला triticale could be प्रयुक्त as a फीड अनाज , और बाद शोध मिला  its starch was particularly readily digested .
As a feed  अनाज , triticale is already खूब  established and of high economic importance .
It has received attention as a potential energy  क्रॉप , और शोध is फिलहाल होने conducted on the उपयोग of the क्रॉप 's बायोमास in bioethanol उत्पादन  .
``  कश , the जादू ड्रैगन '' is a सोंग लिखा by लियोनार्ड lipton और पीटर yarrow , और  made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter , Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording .
The  सोंग हासिल ग्रेट लोकप्रियता  .
A college football national  चैंपियनशिप in the उच्चतम स्तर of कॉलेजिएट खेल in the संयुक्त राज्य , फिलहाल the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक संघ ( ncaa ) प्रभाग i फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ) , is a नामांकन awarded annually  by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ) .
Division I FBS ( formerly Division I-A )  फ़ुटबॉल is the तभी ncaa खेल in जिससे a वार्षिक चैंपियन is नहीं संकल्पित by an ncaa  sanctioned championship event .
Because the  चैंपियनशिप टोली is नहीं संकल्पित by a ncaa चैंपियनशिप or टूर्नामेंट इवेंट , it is  sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical national championship `` .
Since the NCAA , the sport 's governing body ,  करता नहीं determine or घोषित a नेशनल चैंपियन in इस फ़ील्ड , determination of ऐसे रै प्रायः engendered  controversy .
A championship  टोली is independently घोषित by विभिन्न individuals और संगठन ,  often referred to as `` selectors '' .
ये चुनाव हैं sometimes at हालात  with each other .
While the NCAA has never officially  endorsed an सालाना चैंपियनशिप टोली , it रै प्रलेखित the चुनाव of अनेक  selectors in the official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records .
In addition , various third party  विश्लेषकों have independently प्रकाशित उनके अपना सूचियाँ of कया वे have संकल्पित to be the सबसे  legitimate selections for each season .
These are also often at odds with each other as well as  व्यक्तिगत स्कूल 's दावा on नेशनल championships , जिससे , लिये कोई particular ऋतु , may or may नहीं correlate to the  selections published elsewhere .
Currently , two widely recognized national champions selectors are the Associated Press , which conducts a poll of football sportswriters , and the USA Today Coaches ' Poll , a poll of  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच संघ क्रियाशील कोच कि is contractually obligated to नाम the विजेता of the कटोरी चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी चैंपियनशिप खेल as इसके नेशनल चैंपियन .
The Milwaukee Brewers are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in मिल्वौकी , विस्कॉन्सिन  .
The team is a member of the Central Division of Major League  बेसबॉल 's नेशनल लीग और plays इसके घर खेल at मिलर पार्क  .
The team is so  नामित क्युकी of the नगर 's संघ साथ  the brewing industry .
The Washington Nationals are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
The  नागरिकों हैं a सदस्य of the ईस्ट प्रभाग of the नेशनल लीग  of Major League Baseball ( MLB ) .
The team  's घर ballpark is नागरिकों पार्क , स्तिथ on दक्षिण कैपिटल गली in southeast  D.C. , near the Anacostia River .
The park opened in  2008 , replacing rfk स्टेडियम , the टोली 's घर  from 2005 to 2007 .
The Nationals ' name derives from the former  वॉशिंगटन बेसबॉल टोली कि था the वही नाम ( प्रयुक्त interchangeably साथ सीनेटरों  ) .
Their nickname  is `` the nats '' —a shortened संस्करण  that was also used by the old D.C. teams .
An expansion franchise , the club was founded in as the  मॉन्ट्रियल expos , the पहला प्रमुख लीग टोली in कनाडा  .
They were  आधारित in मॉन्ट्रियल , क्यूबेक , और निभाई उनके घर  games at Jarry Park Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium .
In , the Expos won a division championship , won their first-ever playoff series by defeating the Philadelphia Phillies ,  3–2 , और उन्नत to the नेशनल लीग चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी , जहाँ वे होता go on to खोना to the लॉस एंजिल्स डॉजर्स , 3–2 , in उनके तभी postseason  appearance during the strike-shortened season .
The Expos had their highest winning  प्रतिशत in the strike-shortened ऋतु of , जब the टोली था the बेहतरीन रिकार्ड in बेसबॉल  .
The team 's subsequent shedding  of खिलाड़ी caused प्रशंसक ब्याज to बूँद बंद  .
After the 2001 season , MLB considered revoking the team 's  मताधिकार , साथ साथ either the मिनेसोटा जुड़वा or the tampa खाड़ी शैतान  Rays .
After being purchased by  एमएलबी in 2002 , the टोली थी स्थानांतरित पहले the ऋतु to वॉशिंगटन और renamed the नागरिकों , the पहला relocation  since the second Washington Senators moved to Arlington , Texas , and became the Texas Rangers in .
The Nationals are one of  दो एमएलबी franchises , और the तभी एक in the नेशनल लीग , कि रै never निभाई in  a World Series ( the Seattle Mariners are the other ) .
A contingent  शुल्क ( in the संयुक्त राज्य ) or सशर्त शुल्क ( in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स ) is कोई शुल्क लिये सेवाएं  provided where the fee is payable only if there is a favourable result .
In the law , it is defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's services only  if the मुकदमा is कामयाब or is favorably settled  out of court ... .
Contingent fees are usually  गणना as a प्रतिशत of the क्लाएंट 's जाल रिकवरी . ''
In the English legal  प्रणाली , it is generally referred to as no जीत  no fee .
A  सशर्त शुल्क अनुबंध between a विधि कड़ और  a client .
The usual form of  इस अनुबंध is कि the solicitor होगा लो a विधि मामला on the समझना  that if lost , no payment is made .
However , if  the मामला is जीती , the वकील होगा be हकदार to the सामान्य शुल्क आधारित on hourly  billing , plus a success fee .
The success fee in  इंग्लैण्ड जरूर be as a प्रतिशत no वृहद  than 100 % of the normal fee .
This contrasts with the contingency fee in the US , which gives the successful  attorney a प्रतिशत of the क्षतिपूर्ति awarded in एहसान  of his client .
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights since otherwise , to  मुकदमा किसी लिये a अपकृत्य , एक जरूर पहला be धनवान पर्याप्त to pursue ऐसे वाद in  the first place .
However , because of the high risk , few  attorneys होगा लो मामले on a आकस्मिकता आधार जबतक वे महसूस the मामला रै शुभ मेरिट  .
According  to a 2004 किताब by विधि प्राध्यापक हर्बर्ट kritzer , निर्भर शुल्क यहूद अनुमत as of कि साल in the following देशों : ऑस्ट्रेलिया , ब्राज़ील , कनाडा ,  the Dominican Republic , France , Greece , Ireland , Japan , New Zealand , the United Kingdom and the United States .
They are also allowed in  निजी चोट क्रियाएँ in लिथुआनिया .
Recently , they have  महरूम अनुमत in बेल्जियम  as well .
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ' , translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group  of लोगों formally समवेत लिये a खास purpose  .
Sons of Anarchy is a television drama series created by Kurt  sutter परिचय the जीवनदान of a close-knit गैरकानूनी मोटरसाइकिल क्लबों ऑपरेटिंग in आकर्षक , a fictional कस्बा  in California 's Central Valley .
The show centers on protagonist  जैक्सन `` जैक्स '' teller ( चार्ली hunnam ) , the then-vice अध्यक्ष of the क्लबों  , who begins questioning the club and himself .
Sons of Anarchy  premiered on सितंबर 3 , 2008  , on cable network FX .
The third season of the  श्रेणी आकर्षित an औसत of 4.9 लाख दर्शक प्रति सप्ताह , बनाना it fx 's उच्चतम रेटेड  series ever , surpassing FX 's other hits The Shield , Nip/Tuck , and Rescue Me .
On February 3 , 2012 ,  बेटे of अराजकता थी नवीनीकृत लिये दो अतिरिक्त सीज़न , a  fifth and a sixth .
Those involved in the production of the  श्रेणी imply कि a सातवाँ और फाइनल ऋतु is निर्माता  Kurt Sutter 's plan .
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ;  vötn = `` waters '' , एकवचन : ) और the ज्वालामुखी of the  same name are in South-East Iceland .
वे हैं in the हाइलैंड्स of आइसलैंड at the  northwestern side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap .
The  झीलों हैं at , at an उन्नयन  of .
Beneath the lakes is  the मैग्मा कक्ष of the grímsvötn  volcano .
Grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano which has the highest eruption frequency  of सब the ज्वालामुखी in आइसलैंड और रै a southwest-northeast-trending  fissure system .
The  विशाल climate-impacting laki फिशर फटना of 1783–1784  was a part of the same fissure system .
Grímsvötn  थी erupting at the वही समय as laki दौरान 1783  , but continued to erupt until 1785 .
Because most of the volcano  झूठ underneath vatnajökull , सबसे of इसके eruptions have महरूम subglacial और the बातचीत of मैग्मा और  meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity .
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC , an eruption began , with high plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes ,  resulting in रद्दीकरण of 900 फ़्लाइट in आइसलैंड , और in the संयुक्त किंगडम , ग्रीनलैंड , जर्मनी  , Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May .
Until 25 May the eruption scale had  महरूम larger than कि of the 2010 फटना of eyjafjallajökull  .
The eruption stopped at 02:40 UTC on 25 May 2011 , although there  थी कुछ विस्फोटक कार्यकलाप इससे the tephra vents affecting तभी the क्षेत्रफल  around the crater .
Vetting is the  प्रक्रम of performing a पृष्ठभूमि जाँच on किसी पहले offering उन्हें नियुक्ति , डाक्टरेट  an award , etc .
A prospective  व्यक्ति or प्रोजेक्ट may be vetted पहले  making a hiring decision .
In addition , in intelligence gathering  , एसेट हैं vetted to determine उनके उपयोगिता  .
पूर्व मुख्यालय  and current corporate offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation (  formerly harrah 's entertainment इससे 1995 to 2010 ) is an अमरीकी पब्लिक गेमिंग निगम कि owns और operates  over 50 casinos , hotels , and seven golf courses under several brands .
The company , based in Paradise , Nevada , is the  largest गेमिंग कम्पनी in the संसार , साथ सालाना revenues of $  8.9 billion ( 2010 ) .
Caesars is a public company , with a joint venture of Apollo Global Management and  टेक्सास प्रशांत समूह ownig a विशाल portion of the स्टेक और blackstone समूह भी पकड़कर a significant  stake .
The name  बदलें इससे `` harrah 's entertainment inc. '' to `` caesars  Entertainment Corporation '' was made official on November 23 , 2010 .
Harrah 's  remains a कुंजी ब्रांड in the  company .
On November 5 , 2010 , Harrah 's announced an initial  पब्लिक offering of 31,250,000 साझा लकिन retracted इस offering  on November 19 .
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a  व्यक्ति जो is नहीं a कनाडाई नागरिक लकिन जो रै महरूम granted अनुमति to सजीव और  work in Canada without any time limit on his or her stay .
A permanent resident must live in Canada for two years  आउट of प्रत्येक पाँच or रिस्क खोने कि औकात  .
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same rights and responsibilities as a  कनाडाई नागरिक , among अन्य the सही to कार्य लिये कोई एंटरप्राइज़ as खूब as लिये the संघीय or प्रांतीय सरकारी ( अंतर्गत प्रतिबंध  of access rights to certain regulated professions ) .
The main  मतभेद हैं कि निवासियों can नहीं  :
vote in चुनावों in कनाडा  ;
चलाएं लिये निर्वाचित  office ;
थाम कनाडाई passports  ;
In addition  , वे may be अनुमत to जुड़ें कनाडा 's हथियारबंद शक्तियां if the नेशनल  interest would not be prejudiced .
Permanent  निवासियों भी रिस्क प्रत्यर्पण लिये गंभीर अपराधों वचनबद्ध  while resident in Canada .
स्थाई निवासियों may लागू लिये कनाडाई नागरिकता बाद तीन सालो in कनाडा  ; however this is not mandatory .
Erica Kane is a  fictional अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी एबीसी दिन साबुन ओपेरा सब my children  .
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on January  16 , 1970 जबतक the पिछला ब्रॉडकास्ट टेलीविज़न एपीसोड aired on सितंबर  23 , 2011 .
On February 11  , 2013 , it थी घोषित कि lucci होगा guest-star on the prospect  Park 's continuation of All My Children .
In the U.S. , Erica is  माना to be the सबसे लोकप्रिय अक्षर in साबुन ओपेरा  history .
Regarding the  north-american मार्केट , tv मार्गदर्शिका काल्स उसके `` unequivocally the सबसे प्रसिद्ध साबुन ओपेरा अक्षर in the इतिहास of दिन  TV '' , and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time .
A graph of the US CPI from  1913 to 2006 ( in ब्लू ) , और इसके प्रतिशत सालाना बदलें ( in रेड  )
A consumer price  अनुक्रमणिका ( cpi ) उपायों परिवर्तन in the दाम स्तर of a मार्केट बास्केट  of consumer goods and services purchased by households .
The CPI in the United States is defined by the Bureau of  मजदूर आंकडे as `` a माप of the औसत बदलें over समय in the कीमतें सशुल्क by शहरी उपभोक्ता  for a market basket of consumer goods and services . ''
The CPI is a statistical estimate constructed  using the कीमतें of a नमूना of प्रतिनिधि वस्तुएं जिनकी कीमतें हैं एकत्रित periodically  .
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for  अलग श्रेणी और sub-categories of goods और सेवाएं , होने संयुक्त to उपज the overall अनुक्रमणिका साथ weights reflecting  their shares in the total of the consumer expenditures covered by the index .
It is one of several price  indices गणना by सबसे नेशनल सांख्यिकीय एजेंसियों  .
The  सालाना प्रतिशत बदलें in a cpi  is used as a measure of inflation .
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e. , adjust for  the प्रभाव of महंगाई ) the रियल मान of मजदूरी , salaries , pensions , लिये regulating कीमतें और लिये deflating मौद्रिक  magnitudes to show changes in real values .
In most countries , the CPI is , along with the population census and the USA  नेशनल आय और उत्पाद खाते , एक of the सबसे closely देखी नेशनल आर्थिक  statistics .
Knocking on wood , or to touch wood , refers to the  apotropaic परंपरा in पश्चिमी लोकगीत of वस्तुतः touching/knocking on लकडी , or merely stating कि तुम हैं doing or intend वही , in अनुक्रम to avoid `` tempting भाग्य  `` after making a favourable observation , a boast , or declaration concerning one 's own death .
रॉकर भुजा
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine  of ऑटोमोटिव , समुद्री , मोटरसाइकिल और प्रत्यागमनी विमानन इंजन , the रॉकर भुजा is an oscillating लीवर कि conveys रेडियल  movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it .
One end is raised and lowered by a  घूर्णन पालि of the camshaft ( either सीधे or via a tappet ( lifter  ) and pushrod ) while the other end acts on the valve stem .
When the camshaft lobe raises the outside of the  भुजा , the अंदर दबाता bas on the वाल्व स्टेम , खोलने the  valve .
When the outside of the arm is permitted to return due to the camshafts  रोटेशन , the अंदर उदय , allowing the वाल्व वसन्त  to close the valve .
the ड्राइव कैम is चलित  by the camshaft .
This  pushes the रॉकर भुजा up और bas  about the trunnion pin or rocker shaft .
Friction may be reduced at the  पाइंट of सम्पर्क साथ the वाल्व स्टेम by a रोलर कैम  follower .
A similar arrangement transfers the  गति via another रोलर कैम अनुसरणकर्ता to a दूसरी रॉकर भुजा  .
This  घुमाता परिचय the रॉकर शाफ्ट , और हस्तांतरण the गति via a tappet  to the poppet valve .
In  इस मामला इस opens the सेवन वाल्व to  the cylinder head .
The effective leverage of the arm ( and thus the  फ़ोर्स it can exert on the वाल्व स्टेम ) is संकल्पित by the रॉकर भुजा अनुपात , the अनुपात of the अलहदा इससे the रॉकर भुजा 's बीच of रोटेशन to the टिप विभाजित by the अलहदा  from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod .
वर्तमान ऑटोमोटिव डिज़ाइन favors रॉकर भुजा ratios of  about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1 .
However , in the past smaller positive ratios (  the वाल्व लिफ्ट is वृहद than the कैम लिफ्ट ) और भी ऋणात्मक ratios ( वाल्व  lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used .
Many  pre-ww2 इंजन उपयोग 1:1 ( न्यूट्रल  ) ratios .
For car engines the  रॉकर बाहें हैं generally स्टील stampings , providing a उचित  balance of strength , weight and economical cost .
Because the rocker arms are , in  भाग , प्रत्यागमनी वज़न , excessive द्रव्यमान विशेषकर at the लीवर  ends limits the engine 's ability to reach high operating speeds .
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia '' is a Southern Gothic song written by  songwriter bobby रसेल और performed in 1972 by उसके then-wife vicki लॉरेंस  .
Reba  mcentire बाद covered it in  1991 .
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western Studios on Sunset in Hollywood and released less than two weeks later  in नवम्बर 1972 , the सोंग centers around the पुरानी bhai of the narrator , falsely convicted of और चलाया लिये a हत्या , जिससे the narrator herself  has committed .
In postal mail , a return  पता is an सुस्पष्ट समावेश of the पता of the व्यक्ति sending  the message .
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to  determine कैसा to respond to the प्रेषक of the  message if needed .
The return address need not include a sender 's name , but should  शामिल पता or p.o . बक्सा विवरण in the वही रास्ता as the डिलीवरी पता चाहिए .
In some countries , the return address is  conventionally स्तिथ in the अपर बाएँ हाथ कोने of the लिफाफा , कार्ड , or लेबल  .
In the United Kingdom  , the वापसी पता is प्रायः लगाई  on the reverse of the envelope , near the top .
व्यवसायों प्रायः उपयोग लिफाफे preprinted  with a return address .
अनेक individuals have चादरें of चिपकने लेबल्स preprinted साथ उनके  home address to affix to their correspondence .
धर्मार्थ sometimes शामिल ऐसे चादरें in  mailshots .
Rolls of Return  पता लेबल्स can be खरीदा इससे कंपनियाँ कि बेचें personalized लेबल्स to provide individuals an आसान रास्ता  to peel and stick return address labels to their envelopes .
The return  पता is नहीं जरूरी  on postal mail .
However , lack of a return address prevents the postal service from being able to  वापसी the मद if it proves undeliverable ; ऐसे as इससे क्षति , postage due , or  invalid destination .
Such  मेल may यूँ become  dead letter mail .
चाहिए the वापसी पता be of a अलग राज्य or देश ,  the mail may be routed through that location for ease of return .
A nerve guidance conduit ( also  referred to as an कृत्रिम तंत्रिका conduit or कृत्रिम तंत्रिका graft , as opposed to an autograft ) is an कृत्रिम अर्थात् of guiding axonal  regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries .
When direct suturing of the two stumps of a  severed तंत्रिका can नहीं be संपन्नता बगैर टेंशन , the मानक नैदानिक उपचार लिये परिधीय तंत्रिका चोटों is autologous  nerve grafting .
Due to the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in autologous nerve grafting , neural tissue  अभियान्त्रिकी शोध रै केन्द्रित on the विकास of bioartificial तंत्रिका मार्गदर्शन conduits as an वैकल्पिक  treatment , especially for large defects .
Similar techniques are  भी होने छान लिये तंत्रिका मरम्मत in the स्पाइनल cord लकिन तंत्रिका regeneration in the सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली मुद्राएँ a वृहद चुनौती क्युकी इसके axons do नहीं regenerate  appreciably in their native environment .
The creation of artificial conduits is also known as entubulation  क्युकी the तंत्रिका ends और intervening गैप हैं enclosed भीतर a ट्यूब रचित of biological  or synthetic materials .
Whether the conduit is in the form of a  biologic ट्यूब , सिंथेटिक ट्यूब or tissue-engineered conduit , it चाहिए सुकर neurotropic और neurotrophic संचार  between the proximal and distal ends of the nerve gap , block external inhibitory factors , and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth .
The most basic objective of a nerve guidance conduit is to  combine शारीरिक , रासायनिक , और biological cues अंतर्गत शर्तें  that will foster tissue formation .
Materials that have been used to make biologic tubes include blood  बरतन और skeletal मांसपेशियां , जबकि nonabsorbable और bioabsorbable सिंथेटिक tubes have महरूम बना इससे silicone और polyglycolide  respectively .
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a  संयोजन of अनेक तत्व : scaffold ढांचा , scaffold सामग्री , सेल्यूलर therapies , neurotrophic कारकों  and biomimetic materials .
The  चुनाव of जिससे शारीरिक , रासायनिक और biological cues to उपयोग is आधारित on the गुण  of the nerve environment , which is critical in creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration .
The factors that control material  चयन शामिल biocompatibility , biodegradability , mechanical अखंडता  , controllability during nerve growth , implantation and sterilization .
हार्डकोर साहूकार is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी उत्पादित by rdf यूएसए ( बाद zodiak यूएसए ) और रिचर्ड dominick प्रोडक्शन्स लिये trutv परिचय the day-to-day परिचालन of अमरीकी आभूषण  and Loan , a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road , between 8 Mile Road and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit , Michigan .
The series premiered on  अगस्त 16 , 2010 , delivering दो लाख दर्शक , सेटिंग a रिकार्ड as trutv 's most-watched  series premiere ever .
amoxicillin  BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ) , formerly amoxycillin ( BAN )  , और abbreviated amox , is a moderate-spectrum , bacteriolytic , β-lactam antibiotic प्रयुक्त to दावत  bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms .
It is usually the drug of choice within the class  क्युकी it is बेहतर अवशोषित , following मौखिक प्रशासन , than अन्य β-lactam एंटीबायोटिक  .
Amoxicillin is  एक of the सबसे आम एंटीबायोटिक  prescribed for children .
The drug  became उपलब्धियाँ in 1972  .
Amoxicillin is susceptible to  degradation by β-lactamase -producing जीवाणु , जिससे हैं resistant to a व्यापक वर्णक्रम of β-lactam एंटीबायोटिक , ऐसे as पेनिसिलीन  .
For  इस कारण , it is प्रायः संयुक्त  with clavulanic acid , a β-lactamase inhibitor .
This  increases प्रभावकारिता by reducing इसके susceptibility  to β-lactamase resistance .
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 –  जनवरी 22 , 1973 ) , प्रायः referred to as lbj , थी the 36th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1963–1969 ) , a स्थिति he assumed बाद उसके  service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only four  लोगों जो परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य : प्रतिनिधि , सीनेटर  , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United States Representative  इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961 , सहित छह सालो  as United States Senate Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the  लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960 , जॉनसन थी पूछा by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके कार्यशील mate लिये  the 1960 presidential election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22 ,  1963 , समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष in उसके अपना सही , जीतना by a विशाल हाशिया over बैरी  Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and  as अध्यक्ष , he थी जिम्मेदार लिये डिजाइनिंग the `` ग्रेट समाज `` विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों , पब्लिक प्रसारण , medicare , medicaid , पर्यावरणीय  protection , aid to education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson  थी प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार , ''  his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation .
meanwhile , जॉनसन escalated अमरीकी भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध , इससे 16,000 अमरीकी advisors/soldiers in 1963 to  550,000 combat troops in early 1968 , as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement  stimulated a विशाल एंग्री antiwar गति आधारित विशेषकर on विश्वविद्यालयों  campuses in the U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots broke  आउट in सबसे प्रमुख शहरों बाद 1965 , और अपराधों  rates soared , as his opponents raised demands for `` law and order '' policies .
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding  गिरोहों , और बाद जॉनसन किया poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर प्राथमिक  , he ended his bid for reelection .
Republican  रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to  succeed him .
Historians argue that  जॉनसन 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित the शिखर of आधुनिक उदारतावाद in the संयुक्त राज्य बाद the नई सौदे era .
Johnson is  क्रमित favorably by कुछ इतिहासकारों क्युकी of उसके  domestic policies .
The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त डाल at कॉमिक कॉन 2009 , इससे बाएँ : कुणाल नय्यर , साइमन helberg  , Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big  बंग सिद्धान्त , निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक lorre और विधेयक prady  , premiered on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard  hofstadter , दो caltech physicists ; पैनी , a वेट्रेस और aspiring अभिनेत्री जो जीवनदान आरपार the हॉल ; और लियोनार्ड और शेल्डन 's मित्रों और co-workers  aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz , and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist  सहयोगी , और , at अलग टाइम्स , a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ) , a microbiologist , हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी , और पूर्व part-time वेट्रेस alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( ऋतु 3 अतिथि  ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The show also features numerous supporting  वर्ण , प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent भूमिका  in a small group of episodes .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see  नामकरण ) , थी a सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका  ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its  उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into  the western territories .
Foreign powers  किया नहीं intervene  .
बाद चार सालो of खूनी कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished  , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by  अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य  ' territories .
Lincoln won  , लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861 , सात cotton-based  slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic  अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession  as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared  उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate सिविल युद्ध  .
Eight remaining slave states  जारी to अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession  .
Confederate forces  जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by  the Confederacy .
A Peace  सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह ,  and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King  कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate  States of America .
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12 , 1861 , जब confederate शक्तियां fired  upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each  राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य  joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and  स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी अर्थव्यवस्था  .
The  पूर्वी थिएटर  was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate  अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate  retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध  goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the  confederate नदी नेवी , तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो  at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's  confederate incursion उत्तर ended at the बैटल  of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses  S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब संघ सेना in  1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture  अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र , destroying confederate अवसंरचना साथ the रास्ता .
the संघ marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और  could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
the defending confederate फौज विफल , अग्रणी  to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The  अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक  wars .
railroads , the टेलीग्राफ , steamships ,  and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of  civilian कारखानों , खानों , shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ  all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American  इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian  casualties .
Historian John  huddleston estimates the मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी  white males aged 18–40 .
Human evolution refers to  the विकासवादी प्रक्रम अग्रणी up to the रूप  of modern humans .
While it began with the last common ancestor  of सब जीवन , the टॉपिक प्रायः कवर तभी the विकासवादी इतिहास of primates , in particular the genus होमो , और the emergence of होमो sapiens  as a distinct species of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ) .
The study of human evolution  involves अनेक वैज्ञानिक disciplines , सहित शारीरिक मानवशास्त्र , primatology , पुरातत्व  , linguistics , evolutionary psychology , embryology and genetics .
According to genetic studies , primates diverged from  अन्य स्तनधारियों परिचय in the लेट cretaceous काल , और the earliest  fossils appear in the Paleocene , around .
The family Hominidae diverged from the  hylobatidae ( गिबन ) परिवार 15-20 लाख सालो पहले , और around , the ponginae (  orangutans ) , diverged from the Hominidae family .
Bipedalism is the basic adaption of the Hominin line , and the earliest bipedal Hominin  is माना to be either sahelanthropus or orrorin , साथ ardipithecus , a पूरा bipedal , coming  somewhat later .
The gorilla and chimpanzee diverged around the same  समय , परिचय 4-6 लाख सालो पहले , और either sahelanthropus or orrorin may be हमारी  last shared ancestor with them .
The  जल्दी bipedals आखिरकार विकसित into the australopithecines और बाद the genus  Homo .
The earliest documented  सदस्यों of the genus होमो हैं होमो habilis जिससे विकसित around ; the earliest प्रजाति लिये जिससे वहीँ is  positive evidence of use of stone tools .
The brains of these early  hominins यहूद परिचय the वही आकार as कि of  a chimpanzee .
During the next million years a process of  encephalization began , और साथ the आगमन of होमो इरेक्टस in the चट्टान रिकार्ड , cranial क्षमता था doubled  to 850 cm3 .
होमो इरेक्टस और होमो ergaster यहूद the पहला of the hominina to छोड़ अफ़्रीकी , और  these species spread through Africa , Asia , and Europe between .
It is believed that these  प्रजाति यहूद the पहला to उपयोग आग और जटिल  tools .
According to the Recent African Ancestry theory , modern humans  विकसित in अफ़्रीकी संभवतः इससे होमो heidelbergensis , होमो rhodesiensis or होमो antecessor  and migrated out of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 years ago , replacing local populations of Homo erectus , Homo denisova , Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis .
archaic होमो sapiens , the forerunner of anatomically आधुनिक इंसानो , विकसित between  400,000 and 250,000 years ago .
Recent DNA evidence suggests that several haplotypes of Neanderthal origin  हैं उपस्थित among सब non-african populations , और neanderthals और अन्य hominids , ऐसे as denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of उनके genome to present-day इंसानs. < संदर्भ name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202  '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic , about 200,000 years ago .
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development  of सांकेतिक संस्कृति , भाषा , और specialized lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000 सालो पहले according to अनेक विज्ञानियों हालांकि कुछ सुझाएँ  a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span .
Lisa Cuddy , M.D . , is a fictional  अक्षर on the फॉक्स संजाल चिकित्सा नाटक हाउस  .
She is  portrayed by लिसा edelstein  .
Cuddy was the Dean of  आयुर्विज्ञान और हॉस्पिटल व्यवस्थापक of the fictional princeton-plainsboro  Teaching Hospital in New Jersey .
She also becomes House 's love interest  through the सालो to प्रारंभ a संबंध साथ उसे in ऋतु  seven .
cuddy छोड़ो उसके जॉब बाद the कार्यक्रम of ऋतु सात 's  finale `` Moving On `` .
Track and  फ़ील्ड is a खेल comprising विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं  based on running , jumping , and throwing .
the नाम of the खेल गर्भाशयी इससे the प्रतियोगिता स्थान : a स्टेडियम  with an oval running track around a grass field .
The throwing and jumping  कार्यक्रम generally लो प्लेस in the सेंट्रल  enclosed area .
Track and  फ़ील्ड जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ खेल of एथलेटिक्स , जिससे भी शामिल  road running , cross country running , and race walking .
The two most prestigious  अंतरराष्ट्रीय track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं हैं आयोजित अंतर्गत the ध्वज of एथलेटिक्स : the एथलेटिक्स प्रतियोगिता at the ओलम्पिक खेल  and the IAAF World Championships in Athletics .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of एथलेटिक्स federations is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय शासी  body for track and field .
Track and  फ़ील्ड कार्यक्रम हैं generally व्यक्तिगत खेल साथ एथलीट  challenging each other to decide a single victor .
The racing events are won by the  खिलाड़ी साथ the तीव्रतम समय , जबकि the कूद और फेंकना कार्यक्रम हैं जीती by the  athlete who has achieved the greatest distance or height in the contest .
The running events are categorised as sprints , middle and  long-distance कार्यक्रम , relays , और hurdling  .
नियमित कूद कार्यक्रम शामिल long जम्प , ट्रिपल जम्प , ऊँची जम्प और ध्रुव वॉल्ट , जबकि the सबसे आम  throwing events are shot put , javelin , discus and hammer .
वहीँ हैं भी `` संयुक्त कार्यक्रम '' , ऐसे as heptathlon और decathlon  , in which athletes compete in a number of the above events .
Records are kept of the best performances in  विशिष्ट कार्यक्रम , at संसार और नेशनल स्तर , सही bas to a निजी  level .
However , if athletes  हैं deemed to have violated the इवेंट 's नियम or regulations , वे हैं disqualified  from the competition and their marks are erased .
In North America , the term track and field may be used to refer to athletics  in सामान्य , बल्कि than specifically track और फ़ील्ड कार्यक्रम  .
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ) , codenamed  आपरेशन मरुस्थल तूफ़ान ( 17 जनवरी 1991 – 28 फ़रवरी 1991 ) थी a युद्ध waged by a u.n.-authorized गठबन्धन फ़ोर्स इससे 34 राष्ट्र led by the संयुक्त राज्य , विरूद्ध इराकी in जवाब to इराकी 's आक्रमण और annexation of कुवैत  .
The war is also known under other names , such as the  पारसी गल्फ युद्ध , पहला गल्फ युद्ध , गल्फ युद्ध i , or the पहला इराकी युद्ध , पहले the पद `` इराकी युद्ध '' became पहचाना बजाय साथ the 2003 इराकी युद्ध ( भी referred  to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ) .
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 August 1990 was met with  अंतरराष्ट्रीय condemnation , और brought तात्कालिक आर्थिक प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध इराकी by सदस्यों of the u.N. सुरक्षा  Council .
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed U.S.  शक्तियां into सऊदी अरब , और urged अन्य देशों to भेजें उनके  own forces to the scene .
An  सरणी of राष्ट्र  joined the Coalition .
The great majority of the Coalition 's military forces were from the U.S. , with  सऊदी अरब , the संयुक्त किंगडम और मिश्र as अग्रणी योगदानकर्ता , in कि  order .
Saudi Arabia  सशुल्क around us $ 36 अरब of  the US $ 60 billion cost .
The war was marked by  the शुरूआत of सजीव न्यूज on the सामने लाइनों of the लड़ो , साथ  the primacy of the U.S. network CNN .
The war has also earned the nickname Video Game War after the daily broadcast  बिंब on फलक the u.S. बमवर्षक दौरान आपरेशन  Desert Storm .
The initial  विरोध to निकाल इराकी सैनिकों इससे कुवैत began साथ an aerial  bombardment on 17 January 1991 .
This was followed by a ground  उत्पीड़न on 24 फ़रवरी .
This was a decisive victory for the Coalition  शक्तियां , जो liberated कुवैत और उन्नत into इराकी territory  .
The Coalition ceased their advance , and  घोषित a cease-fire 100 घंटों बाद the मैदान अभियान प्रारंभ  .
Aerial and ground combat was confined to  इराकी , कुवैत , और क्षेत्रों on सऊदी अरब 's किनारा  .
Iraq launched Scud  मिसाइलें विरूद्ध गठबन्धन सैन्य लक्ष्य in सऊदी अरब और विरूद्ध  Israel .
The nickel , in American usage ,  is a five- cent सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य  Mint .
Composed of  75 % तांबे और 25 % निकल , the टुकड़ा  has been struck since 1866 .
The silver half dime , equal to five  सेंट , था महरूम जारी चूंकि the 1790s  .
The American  सिविल युद्ध caused आर्थिक hardship , ड्राइविंग सुनहरा और चांदी इससे परिसंचरण ; in जवाब , in प्लेस of low-value सिक्के  , the government at first issued paper currency .
In 1865 , Congress abolished  the five-cent fractional करेंसी नोट बाद स्पेंसर M. क्लार्क , सिर of the करेंसी ब्यूरो ( आज the ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और मुद्रण ) , लगाई  his own portrait on the denomination .
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent pieces , without precious metal , Congress also  प्राधिकृत a five-cent टुकड़ा consisting of आधार मेटल ; the मिंट began striking इस  version in 1866 .
The initial  डिज़ाइन of the शील्ड निकल थी struck जबतक 1883 , तब  replaced by the Liberty Head nickel .
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in 1913 as  भाग of a ड्राइव to बढ़ाएँ the सौंदर्य of अमरीकी coinage ; in 1938 , the  Jefferson nickel followed .
In  2004 और 2005 , खास डिजाइन in सम्मान of the bicentennial of  the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued .
In 2006 , the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nickel designer Felix Schlag 's  असली रिवर्स ( or `` tails '' पक्ष ) , हालांकि a नई obverse , by जेमी franki , थी substituted  .
As of 2013 , it costs more than eleven cents  to उपज a निकल ; the मिंट is exploring the सम्भावना of reducing  cost by using less expensive metals .
A poster with flowers or clusters of flowers produced by  बारह प्रजाति of flowering पौधे इससे अलग  families
A flower , sometimes known as a bloom or  खिलना , is the reproductive ढांचा मिला in flowering पौधे ( पौधे of the प्रभाग  Magnoliophyta , also called angiosperms ) .
The biological function  of a पुष्प is to प्रभाव जनन , प्रायः by providing a यांत्रिकी  for the union of sperm with eggs .
पुष्प may सुकर outcrossing ( संलयन of शुक्राणु और अंडे इससे अलग  individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( fusion of sperm and egg from the same flower ) .
Some flowers  उपज diaspores बगैर fertilization ( parthenocarpy  ) .
Flowers  contain sporangia और हैं the साईट जहाँ gametophytes  develop .
Flowers  दे वृद्धि to फल और  seeds .
अनेक पुष्प have विकसित to be आकर्षक to पशु , so as to  cause them to be vectors for the transfer of pollen .
In addition to  facilitating the जनन of flowering पौधे , पुष्प have long महरूम admired और प्रयुक्त by इंसानो to beautify उनके पर्यावरण , और भी as वस्तुएँ  of romance , ritual , religion , medicine and as a source of food .
The McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a  twin-engine , all-weather रणनीतिक सेनानी designed by mcdonnell डगलस to लाभ और maintain एयर बड़प्पन  in aerial combat .
It is  माना among the सबसे कामयाब आधुनिक सेनानी , साथ over 100 aerial कॉम्बैट  victories with no losses in dogfights .
Following reviews of proposals , the United States Air Force selected McDonnell  डगलस ' डिज़ाइन in 1967 to मिलें the सेवा 's need लिये a समर्पित एयर बड़प्पन  fighter .
The Eagle  पहला उड़ाया in जुलाई 1972 , और डाला  service in 1976 .
चूंकि the 1970s , the त्रिभुज रै महरूम exported to इसराईल , जापानी  , Saudi Arabia , and other nations .
The F-15  थी originally envisioned as a pure  air superiority aircraft .
इसके डिज़ाइन शामिल a द्वितीयक ground-attack  capability that was largely unused .
The design proved flexible enough that an  all-weather स्ट्राइक डेरिवेटिव , the f-15e स्ट्राइक त्रिभुज ,  was later developed , and entered service in 1989 .
The F-15  त्रिभुज is अपेक्षित to be in सेवा साथ the  U.S. Air Force past 2025 .
mimio is a ब्रांड नाम of a लकीर of प्रौद्योगिकी उत्पाद aimed  at the education market .
the प्राथमिक उत्पाद हैं केन्द्रित around कंप्यूटर whiteboard  interactive teaching devices .
MimioCapture  डिवाइस भी allow उपयोक्ता to कैप्चर सब of the स्याही स्ट्रोक्स कि हैं  written on the whiteboard .
When used in  संयोजन साथ a वीडियो प्रोजेक्टर it turns the ordinary whiteboard  surface into a fully interactive whiteboard .
The product line was  originally designed  by Virtual Ink .
On October 4 , 2006  newell rubbermaid acquired the mimio इंटरैक्टिव whiteboard ( iwb  ) product line .
rahab of जेरिको
Rahab , ( ; ; ) was , according  to the किताब of जोशुआ , a स्त्री जो जिया in जेरिको in the promised  Land and assisted the Israelites in capturing the city .
Nearly all English translations of  जोशुआ describe उसके as a बदचलन or  prostitute .
The Organization of American  राज्य ( स्पेनी : organización de लॉस estados americanos , पुर्तगाली : organização डॉस estados americanos , फ्रेंच : संगठन देस états  américains ) , or the OAS , is a regional international organization .
The OAS was founded on 30 April  1948 , और रै इसके मुख्यालय in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , संयुक्त  States .
Its members are the  35 स्वतंत्र राज्य of the americas  .
Since 26 May 2005 , the Secretary  सामान्य of oas रै महरूम जोस  Miguel Insulza .
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo  कोलोन ; स्पेनी : cristóbal colón ; पुर्तगाली : cristóvão कोलोन ; पहले 31 अक्तूबर 145120 may 1506 ) थी an इतालवी एक्सप्लोरर , नाविक , और colonizer , born in the गणतंत्र  of Genoa , in what is today northwestern Italy .
Under  the auspices of the कैथोलिक monarchs of स्पेन , he समाप्त चार voyages आरपार the अटलांटिक समंदर कि led to सामान्य  European awareness of the American continents .
Those voyages , and his efforts to establish permanent settlements  on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला , initiated the स्पेनी colonization of the नई  World .
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth through the establishment of trade routes and colonies , Columbus 's speculative proposal , to reach the East Indies by sailing westward , eventually  प्राप्त the support of the स्पेनी क्राउन , जिससे देखी in it a वादा , however रिमोट , of gaining the अपर हाथ over प्रतिद्वंद्वी शक्तियां in the प्रतियोगिता लिये the lucrative मसाला व्यापार  with Asia .
During his  पहला voyage in 1492 , बजाय of reaching जापानी as he था intended , कोलंबस उतरा in the बहामा द्वीपसमूह  , at a locale he named San Salvador .
Over the course of three more voyages ,  कोलंबस visited the वृहद और lesser antilles , as खूब as the caribbean coast of वेनेजुएला और सेंट्रल अमेरिका , claiming  them for the Spanish Empire .
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer to reach the Americas (  having महरूम preceded by the नॉर्स expedition led by leif ericson in the 11th सदी ) , कोलंबस 's voyages led to the पहला स्थायी  European contact with the Americas , inaugurating a period of European exploration , conquest , and colonization that lasted for several centuries .
They had , therefore , an  विशाल प्रभाव in the ऐतिहासिक विकास of the  modern Western world .
Columbus himself saw his accomplishments primarily in the  लाइट of the spreading of the ईसाई धर्म  .
Never admitting that he had reached a continent previously unknown to Europeans , rather than the East Indies he  था नियत आउट लिये , कोलंबस पुकारा the निवासियों of the  lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ) .
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial  प्रशासकों in अमेरिका led to उसके गिरफ़्तार और dismissal as राज्यपाल of the settlements on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला in 1500 , और बाद to protracted वाद  over the benefits which Columbus and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown .
Bred in Germany , the Boxer is a  नस्ल of stocky , medium-sized , short-haired  dogs .
The coat is smooth and tight-fitting ; colors  हैं fawn or brindled , साथ or बगैर श्वेत markings , जिससे  may cover the entire body .
Boxers are  brachycephalic ( वे have व्यापक , छोटी skulls ) , और have a वर्गाकार muzzle , mandibular prognathism ( an underbite ) , बहुत दमदार  jaws , and a powerful bite ideal for hanging on to large prey .
The Boxer  थी करवाया इससे the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी बुल और the  now extinct Bullenbeisser , and is part of the Molosser group .
Boxers were first exhibited in a dog  दिखाएँ लिये st. bernards in म्यूनिख in 1895 , the पहला boxer क्लबों होने संस्थापित  the next year .
Based on 2012 American Kennel Club statistics ,  मुक्केबाज आयोजित स्थिर as the सातवाँ सबसे लोकप्रिय नस्ल of श्वान in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये the तीसरा  consecutive year .
Serial ATA ( SATA ) is a computer bus interface  कि connects मेजबान बस adapters to द्रव्यमान भंडार डिवाइस  such as hard disk drives and optical drives .
Serial ATA replaces  the पुरानी at अनुलग्नक मानक ( ata ; बाद referred to as समानांतर ata or pata ) , offering अनेक लाभ over the पुरानी इंटरफ़ेस : घटाया  cable size and cost ( seven conductors instead of 40 ) , native hot swapping , faster data transfer through higher signalling rates , and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol .
SATA host  adapters और डिवाइस communicate via a high-speed सीरियल केबल  over two pairs of conductors .
In contrast , parallel ATA ( the  redesignation लिये the विरासत ata विशेषताएँ ) प्रयुक्त a 16-bit चौड़ी आंकड़ा बस साथ अनेक अतिरिक्त support और कंट्रोल सिग्नल , सब  operating at much lower frequency .
To ensure backward compatibility with legacy ATA  तन्त्र और अनुप्रयोग , sata उपयोग the वही मौलिक ata और atapi command-set  as legacy ATA devices .
SATA  रै replaced समानांतर ata in उपभोक्ता डेस्कटॉप और लैपटॉप कंप्यूटर  , and has largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications .
SATA 's  मार्केट share in the डेस्कटॉप pc मार्केट थी 99 % in  2008 .
PATA remains widely used  in औद्योगिक और अंतःस्थापित अनुप्रयोग कि उपयोग compactflash भंडार , भी हालांकि the नई cfast  standard is based on SATA .
Serial ATA industry  संगतता विशेषताएँ originate इससे the सीरियल ata अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Organization ( aka .
sata-io , serialata.org  ) .
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates , reviews ,  ratifies , और publishes the interoperability विशेषताएँ , the परीक्षण मामले , और plug-fests  .
As  साथ अनेक अन्य उद्योग संगतता मानकों , the sata सामग्री स्वामित्व is transferred to अन्य उद्योग  bodies : primarily the INCITS T13 subcommittee ATA , the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) .
The complete  specification इससे  SATA-IO .
The remainder of this article  होगा कोशिश to उपयोग the शब्दावली  and specifications of SATA-IO .
The history of the Internet began with the development of  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's  प्रयोगशाला at विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla ) , बाद the दूसरी टुकड़ा of संजाल उपकरण थी संस्थापित at स्टैनफोर्ड शोध  Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I at  npl in the uk , cyclades , मेरिट संजाल , tymnet , और telenet , यहूद विकसित in the  late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in  particular led to the विकास of प्रोटोकॉल लिये internetworking , in जिससे अनेक पृथक  networks could be joined together into a network of networks .
In 1982 , the  अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) थी मानकीकृत , और नतीजतन , the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल of  interconnected TCP/IP networks , called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the  कंप्यूटर विज्ञान संजाल ( csnet ) और again in 1986 जब nsfnet provided अभिगम to महासंगणक साइट in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे शोध और शिक्षा संगठन  .
वाणिज्यिक अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) began to emerge in the  late 1980s and early 1990s .
The ARPANET  थी decommissioned in 1990 .
The  अंतरजाल थी commercialized in 1995 जब nsfnet थी decommissioned , निकालना  the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce , including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail , instant messaging , Voice  over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '' , two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स , और the संसार चौड़ी वेब साथ इसके चर्चा forums , ब्लॉग , सोशल नेटवर्किंग  , and online shopping sites .
The research and education community  continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची गति रीढ़ संजाल सेवा  ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of  आंकड़ा हैं transmitted at उच्चतर और उच्चतर speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल ऑपरेटिंग  at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical  शर्तें : it तभी communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way दूरसंचार संजाल in the साल 1993 , already  51 % by 2000 , and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007 .
Today the Internet continues to grow , driven by ever greater amounts of online  सूचना , कॉमर्स , entertainment , और सोशल  networking .
The Gift is the second album by Scottish singer  सुसान बॉयल , जिससे थी released on 8 नवम्बर 2010  .
Boyle hinted that the album has a  1960s महसूस `` क्युकी कि थी [ उसके ]  era '' .
on 30  नवम्बर 2011 , the एल्बम प्राप्त a नामांकन in 54th ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album .
`` This Is Just To  कह '' ( 1934 ) is a प्रसिद्ध imagist कविता by विलियम कार्लोस विलियम्स  .
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore is a major character  और समर्थक of J. K. रोलिंग 's हैरी कुम्हार श्रेणी  .
For  सबसे of the श्रेणी , he is the  headmaster of the wizarding school Hogwarts .
As part of  उसके backstory , it is नाज़िल कि he is the संस्थापक और नेता of the अनुक्रम of the  Phoenix , an organisation dedicated to fighting the main antagonist of the series , Lord Voldemort .
Dumbledore is portrayed by  रिचर्ड हैरिस in the फिल्मी adaptions of हैरी कुम्हार और the  Philosopher 's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets .
After Harris ' death ,  माइकल gambon portrayed डम्बल्डोर लिये सब of the बाकी  films .
Rowling stated she chose the name Dumbledore ,  जिससे is an जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी शब्द लिये `` bumblebee `` , क्युकी of डम्बल्डोर 's प्रेम of म्यूज़िक : वो imagined उसे  walking around `` humming to himself a lot '' .
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is  उत्पादित in इंसानो primarily by the parafollicular कोशिकाएं ( भी ज्ञात as c-cells ) of the थायराइड , और in अनेक अन्य पशु in  the ultimobranchial body .
It acts to  reduce रक्त कैल्सियम ( ca2+ ) , opposing the  effects of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) .
Calcitonin has  महरूम मिला in मछली , सरीसृपों , पक्षियों  , and mammals .
इसके महत्व in इंसानो रै नहीं महरूम as खूब स्थापित as इसके महत्व  in other animals , as its function is usually not significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis .
It  belongs to calcitonin-like  protein family .
A mousepad  साथ a padded कलाई बाकी .
A mousepad ( US ) or mouse mat ( UK ) is a surface for  रखकर और चलती a कंप्यूटर चूहा .
A mousepad  enhances the उपयोगिता of the चूहा compared to using a चूहा सीधे on a तालिका by providing a सतह to allow the ट्रैकिंग led or बॉल ( in पूर्व  models ) to measure movement accurately and without jitter .
Some  mousepads बढ़ाएँ ergonomics by  providing a padded wrist rest .
The  स्टेडियम देखी इससे ऊपर  in 1980
December  29 , 2002 implosion
The Riverfront  स्टेडियम साईट in जून , 2006  .
इस फ़ोटो थी लिया इससे the पश्चिमी concourse of  Great American Ball Park .
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the Reds ' Hall of  कीर्ति और संग्रहालय और प्रमुख गली , जिससे थी विस्तारित जब the नई पार्क थी निर्मित  .
the सिनसिनाटी bengals ' पॉल भूरा  Stadium is in the distance .
riverfront स्टेडियम ( 1970–1995 ) , बाद ज्ञात as cinergy फ़ील्ड ( 1996–2002 ) , थी the घर of the सिनसिनाटी  Reds National League baseball team and the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team .
Located on the Ohio River in downtown Cincinnati , the  स्टेडियम थी बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the घर of `` the बिग रेड यंत्र  `` , as the Reds were often called in the 1970s .
Construction began on February 1 , 1968 ,  और थी समाप्त at a लागत of कम than $ 50 लाख  .
On June 30 , 1970 , the Reds hosted the Atlanta  braves in उनके ग्रैंड खोलने , साथ हांक आरोन hitting the पहला कभी  home run at Riverfront .
Two weeks later on July 14 , 1970 ,  riverfront hosted the 1970 प्रमुख लीग  Baseball All-Star Game .
This  खेल is बेहतरीन remembered लिये the often-replayed टक्कर at घर थाली between लाल  star Pete Rose and catcher Ray Fosse of the Cleveland Indians .
In September 1996 , Riverfront Stadium  थी renamed `` cinergy फ़ील्ड '' in a प्रायोजन सौदे साथ वृहद सिनसिनाटी 's उर्जा  company , Cinergy Corporation .
In 2001 ,  to मेक रूम लिये ग्रेट अमरीकी बॉल पार्क , the seating क्षमता  at Cinergy Field was reduced to 39,000 .
There was a huge wall in Center Field visible  बाद the renovations , to serve as the बैटर 's  eye .
The stadium  थी demolished by implosion  on December 29 , 2002 .
nexen टायर is a टायर निर्माता , headquartered in yangsan , दक्षिण gyeongsang  Province , and Seoul , both in South Korea .
Its  प्रमुख घरेलू प्रतिस्पर्धी हैं hankook  Tire and Kumho Tires .
The company 's name is  reflected in the कम्पनी स्लोगन , `` अगला सदी  Tire . ''
The silent majority is an  अनिर्दिष्ट विशाल बहुमत of लोगों in a देश or समूह जो do नहीं  express their opinions publicly .
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by U.S. President Richard  निक्सन in a नवम्बर 3 , 1969 , वाक in जिससे he कहा , `` और so tonight—to तुम , the ग्रेट मूक बहुमत of my fellow  Americans—I ask for your support . ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans who did not join  in the विशाल demonstrations विरूद्ध the वियतनाम युद्ध at the समय , जो किया नहीं  join in the counterculture , and who did not participate in public discourse .
Nixon along with many others saw this group of  मध्य अमेरिकी as होने निष्प्रभ in the मीडिया by the अधिक गायन अल्पसंख्यक  .
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the  लोगों जो have died , और अन्य have प्रयुक्त it पहले और  after Nixon to refer to groups of voters in various nations of the world .
Sam  , a rhesus मंकी , उड़ाया to an ऊँचाई of  88 km in 1959 .
( नासा  )
पहले इंसानो गई into स्पेस , अनेक पशु यहूद शुभारम्भ into स्पेस , सहित  numerous monkeys , so that scientists could investigate the biological effects of space travel .
The United States  शुभारम्भ फ़्लाइट containing primate कार्गो primarily between 1948-1961  with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985 .
France launched two  monkey-carrying फ़्लाइट in 1967  .
The Soviet Union and Russia  शुभारम्भ बंदरों between 1983 और 1996  .
Most monkeys  यहूद anesthetized पहले lift-off  .
Overall  thirty-two बंदरों उड़ाया in the स्पेस कार्यक्रम ;  none flew more than once .
numerous back-up बंदरों भी गई through  the programs but never flew .
Monkeys from several species  यहूद प्रयुक्त , सहित rhesus बंदरों , cynomolgus बंदरों , गिलहरी बंदरों  , and pig-tailed macaques .
Some chimpanzees ( which are  apes बल्कि than बंदरों ) यहूद  also used .
RAID ( redundant array of independent disks  , originally अनावश्यक सरणी of inexpensive डिस्क ) is a भंडार प्रौद्योगिकी कि  combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit .
Data is distributed across the drives in one  of अनेक तरीके पुकारा `` रेड स्तर '' , depending on the स्तर of अतिरेक और प्रदर्शन  required .
The term `` RAID '' was  पहला पारिभाषित by दाउद पैटरसन , garth A. गिब्सन , और रैंडी katz at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , Berkeley in 1987 .
Marketers representing industry RAID manufacturers  बाद attempted to reinvent the पद to describe a अनावश्यक सरणी of स्वतंत्र डिस्क as a अर्थात् of disassociating a low-cost अपेक्षा  from RAID technology .
RAID is now used as  an छतरियाँ पद लिये कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा भंडार योजनाएं कि can divide और replicate आंकड़ा among अनेक शारीरिक ड्राइव : रेड is an उदाहरण of भंडार आभासीकरण  and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one single drive .
the अलग योजनाएं or architectures हैं नामित  by the word RAID followed by a number ( e.g . RAID 0 , RAID 1 ) .
Each scheme provides a different balance between the  कुंजी लक्ष्य : विश्वसनीयता और उपलब्धता , प्रदर्शन और क्षमता  .
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide protection against  unrecoverable ( सेक्टर ) पढ़ा त्रुटियाँ , as खूब as पूरे डिस्क  failure .
A  lymphocyte is a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका in the vertebrate प्रतिरक्षा  system .
Under the  सूक्ष्मदर्शी , lymphocytes can be विभाजित into  large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes .
Large granular  lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक कातिल कोशिकाएं ( nk  cells ) .
छोटी lymphocytes consist of t कोशिकाएं और  B cells .
The Big  lebowski is a 1998 अंधेरा कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by जोएल  and Ethan Coen .
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff Lebowski , an  बेरोजगार लॉस एंजिल्स slacker और avid बॉलर , nicknamed `` the यार  . ''
बाद a मामला of mistaken पहचान , the यार is introduced to a करोड़पति भी  named Jeffrey Lebowski .
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped , he  आयोग the यार to उद्धार the फिरौती to सुरक्षित उसके रिलीज  .
The plan goes awry when The  यार 's dost वाल्टर sobchak ( जॉन गुडमैन ) योजनाएं to रखना the पूरा फिरौती  .
स्टीव buscemi , फिलिप seymour हॉफमन , दाउद huddleston , julianne मूर , tara reid , और जॉन turturro भी स्टार in the  film , which is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger '' , played by Sam Elliott .
The film is loosely inspired by  the कार्य of रेमंड चांडलर  .
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a  चांडलर दयालु of स्टोरी – कैसा it चालें episodically , और सौदे साथ the वर्ण trying to सुलझाना a रहस्य , as खूब  as having a hopelessly complex plot that 's ultimately unimportant . ''
The original score was  रचित by कार्टर burwell , a longtime collaborator of the  Coen Brothers .
the बिग lebowski थी a निराशा at the u.S. बक्सा दफ्तर  and received mixed reviews at the time of its release .
Reviews have  trended towards the धनात्मक over समय , और the फिल्मी रै become a cult पसंदीदा , विख्यात लिये इसके idiosyncratic  characters , dream sequences , unconventional dialogue , and eclectic soundtrack .
Severus Snape is a  fictional अक्षर in the हैरी कुम्हार किताब श्रेणी लिखा by j.K. रोलिंग  .
In the first  अनोखा of the श्रेणी , he is शत्रु toward हैरी और is निर्मित up to be the प्राथमिक  antagonist until the final chapters .
As the series  progresses , snape 's अक्षर becomes अधिक परतदार  and complex .
रोलिंग करता नहीं fully खुलासा the विवरण of उसके सच्चा loyalties जबतक the समाप्त of the फाइनल किताब ,  Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows .
over the कोर्स of the श्रेणी , snape 's portrayal evolves इससे कि of a दुर्भावनापूर्ण और दलगत टीचर  to that of a pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity .
Snape  primarily सिखाती potions at हॉग्वार्ट्स , हालांकि in the छठे अनोखा he सिखाती रक्षा विरूद्ध the अंधेरा कला , a स्थिति  which he was known to have desired throughout the series .
He  ultimately becomes हेडमास्टर of हॉग्वार्ट्स  in the final novel .
Rowling  रै वर्णित उसे as `` a तोहफा of  a character '' .
Grits refers to a ground-corn  खाना of देशी अमरीकी उत्पत्ति , कि is आम in the  Southern United States and mainly eaten at breakfast .
Modern  grits हैं commonly बना of  alkali-treated corn known as hominy .
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges from  around the संसार ऐसे as polenta or the thinner farina  .
`` Instant grits  '' have महरूम processed to गति  cooking .
The word ``  grits '' गर्भाशयी इससे the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी शब्द ``  grytt , '' meaning coarse meal .
इस शब्द originally referred to गेहूं और अन्य porridges  now known as groats in parts of the U.K..
Maize , unknown in  यूरोपीय in the मध्य आयु , is a खाना निकला इससे मकई ( a नई संसार संयंत्र ) और `` मकई '' था महरूम प्रयुक्त to describe  wheat products in many European regions .
`` Grits '' may  be either एकवचन or बहुवचन ; historically , in the अमरीकी दक्षिण the शब्द थी invariably एकवचन notwithstanding इसके बहुवचन  form ( cf . such food names as `` spaghetti '' or `` linguine '' , likewise plural in form , but singular in use ) .
Sometimes  , grits हैं पुकारा sofkee or sofkey  ( from a native American Muskogee word ) .
In molecular biology , human  chorionic gonadotropin ( hcg ) is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by the निषेचित अंडा  after conception .
Later during pregnancy  it is बना by the विकासशील placenta , और बाद by the placental घटक syncytiotrophoblast  .
Some cancerous tumors produce this  हार्मोन ; इसलिए , elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी is नहीं गर्भवती  can lead to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not known  whether इस उत्पादन is a contributing कारण or an प्रभाव of tumorigenesis  .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as  luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ) , is उत्पादित in the pituitary  gland of males and females of all ages .
, the FDA has prohibited  the बिक्री of `` होम्योपैथिक '' और over the काउंटर hcg आहार उत्पाद  and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
The Las  वेगास स्ट्रिप संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय  in 2003
coca-cola is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय बेची in स्टोर्स , रेस्तरां , और वेंडिंग  machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea .
It is  उत्पादित by the coca-cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया , और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क  of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent  आयुर्विज्ञान जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन pemberton , coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler , जिनकी विपणन tactics led कोक to इसके दबदबा of the  world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The  कम्पनी produces concentrate , जिससे is तब बेची to licensed  Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world .
the bottlers , जो थाम territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी , उपज  finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers  तब बेचें , वितरित और merchandise coca-cola to  retail stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola  उद्यमों , जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका  and western Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells  concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां और खाना सेवा  distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company  रै , on अवसर , introduced अन्य कोला पेय अंतर्गत  the Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke  , साथ अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola , आहार कोक caffeine-free , coca-cola चेरी , coca-cola शून्य , coca-cola वैनिला , और खास संस्करण  with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on  interbrand 's बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011 , coca-cola थी the संसार  's most valuable brand .
An ombudsman  is an आधिकारिक , प्रायः नियुक्त by the सरकारी or by पार्लियामेंट लकिन साथ a significant उपाधि of स्वतंत्रता , जो is चार्ज साथ representing the रूचि  of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights .
In some countries an Inspector General ,  नागरिक एडवोकेट or अन्य आधिकारिक may have कर्तव्य समान to those of a नेशनल ombudsman ,  and may also be appointed by the legislature .
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state , local or  नगरपालिका सरकारी , और unofficial ombudsmen may be नियुक्त by , or भी कार्य लिये , a निगम ऐसे as a यूटिलिटी प्रदायक or a समाचारपत्र  , for an NGO , or for a professional regulatory body .
Whether  नियुक्त by the विधानमंडल , the कार्यपालिका , or an संगठन ( or , कम अक्सर , निर्वाचित by the constituency कि he or वो serves ) , the ठेठ कर्तव्य of  an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them , usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation .
Ombudsmen  sometimes भी उद्देश्य to पहचानो प्रणालीगत मुद्दे अग्रणी to ग़रीब सेवा or breaches  of people 's rights .
At the national level , most ombudsmen have a wide mandate to deal  साथ the संपूर्ण पब्लिक सेक्टर , और sometimes भी तत्व of  the private sector ( for example , contracted service providers ) .
In some cases , there is a more  प्रतिबंधित जनादेश , लिये उदाहरण साथ particular सेक्टर  of society .
More recent developments have included the creation of  specialised children 's ombudsman और सूचना कमिश्नर  agencies .
In some jurisdictions an  ombudsman चार्ज साथ the हैंडलिंग of चिंताएं परिचय नेशनल सरकारी is अधिक formally referred to as the `` संसदीय कमिश्नर '' ( e.g . the  United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration , and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ) .
In  अनेक देशों जहाँ the ombudsman 's remit extends परे dealing साथ कथित  maladministration to promoting and protecting human rights , the ombudsman is recognised as the national human rights institution .
The post of ombudsman had by  the समाप्त of the 20th सदी महरूम instituted by सबसे सरकारें और by कुछ intergovernmental  organizations such as the European Union .
Making a complaint to an  ombudsman is प्रायः फ़्री  of charge .
Sign at Georgetown  विश्वविद्यालयों वॉशिंगटन  DC
चिह्न in बांजुल ,  The Gambia
Autumn in  नई इंग्लैण्ड , watercolor , मौरिस  Prendergast .
ca . 1910–1913
Fall foliage  in the कस्बा of स्टो ,  Vermont
New England is a region in the  northeastern कोने of the संयुक्त राज्य consisting of the छह राज्य of maine , नई हैम्पशायर  , Vermont , Massachusetts , Rhode Island , and Connecticut .
New England is bordered by New York state  to the दक्षिणपश्चिम , क्यूबेक to the उत्तरपश्चिम , और नई ब्रंसविक और the अटलांटिक समंदर to  the east .
In one of  the earliest अंग्रेज़ी settlements in उत्तर अमेरिका , तीर्थयात्रियों इससे इंग्लैण्ड पहला settled  in New England in 1620 , to form Plymouth Colony .
Ten years later , the  puritans settled उत्तर of plymouth उपनिवेश in बोस्टन , यूँ  forming Massachusetts Bay Colony .
Over the next 130 years , New England  लड़ा in चार फ्रेंच और भारतीय युद्धों , जबतक the अंग्रेजों पराजित the फ्रेंच और  their native allies in North America .
In the late 18th century , the New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the  अंग्रेजों पार्लियामेंट 's प्रयत्न to थोपने नई कर बगैर the सहमति of the colonists  .
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which  ग्रेट ब्रिटेन responded साथ a श्रेणी of दंडात्मक कानून stripping मैसाचुसेट्स of self-government  , which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists .
The confrontation led  to खोलें warfare in 1775 , the expulsion of the अंग्रेजों अधिकारियों इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड  in spring 1776 , and the Declaration of Independence in July 1776 .
Some of the first movements of  अमरीकी साहित्य , दर्शनशास्त्र , और शिक्षा originated in नई इंग्लैण्ड  .
The region played a  prominent भूमिका in the गति to abolish गुलामी , और थी the पहला प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य to be रूपांतरित  by the Industrial Revolution .
Today , New England is a major world center of  शिक्षा , ऊँची प्रौद्योगिकी , बीमे , और आयुर्विज्ञान  .
बोस्टन is इसके सांस्कृतिक , वित्तीय , शैक्षणिक  , medical and transportation center .
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities  ज्ञात as नई इंग्लैण्ड कस्बों , जिससे हैं प्रायः  governed by town meeting .
The only unincorporated territory in New England exists in  the sparse , उत्तरी regions of वर्मांट , नई हैम्पशायर , और maine  .
Since 1970 , voters have more  प्रायः समर्थित उदार उम्मीदवार at the राज्य और संघीय स्तर  than those of any other region in the United States .
New England  is the तभी एक of the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's नौ क्षेत्रीय विभाजन जिनकी नाम करता नहीं derive इससे  its geography , and it is the only multi-state region with clear , consistent boundaries .
It maintains a strong sense of  सांस्कृतिक पहचान नियत अलावा इससे the बाकी of the देश , हालांकि the शर्तें of इस पहचान हैं प्रायः लडे , combining puritanism साथ उदारतावाद , कृषिक जीवन साथ उद्योग , और अलगाव  with immigration .
आपात !
is an American television  श्रेणी कि combines the चिकित्सा नाटक और action-adventure  genres .
It was produced by  चिह्नित सात सीमित और वितरित by सार्वभौमिक studios  .
It debuted as a midseason replacement on  जनवरी 15 , 1972 , on एनबीसी , replacing the दो short-lived श्रेणी the साझेदार और the शुभ जीवन , और भागा जबतक सितंबर 3 , 1977 , साथ छह अतिरिक्त  two-hour television films during the following two years .
आपात  !
was created and produced by Jack  webb और रॉबर्ट A. cinader , दोनो of जिसको यहूद भी जिम्मेदार लिये the पुलिस  dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet .
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET  ) encompasses 17 u.S. राज्य in the पूर्वी भाग of the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य , भाग of कनाडा और  three countries in South America .
Places that use Eastern  मानक समय ( est ) जब observing मानक समय ( autumn/winter ) हैं 5 घंटों पीछे समन्वित  Universal Time ( ) .
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ) , when observing daylight saving time (  spring/summer ) is 4 घंटों पीछे समन्वित सार्वभौमिक समय ( )  .
In the northern parts of the time zone , during the second Sunday in  कूच , at 2:00 a.m. est , घड़ियाँ हैं उन्नत to 3:00 a.m. edt leaving a एक घंटा `` गैप  . ''
During the first Sunday in  नवम्बर , at 2:00 a.m. edt , घड़ियाँ हैं स्थानांतरित वापस to 1:00 a.m. est ,  thus `` duplicating '' one hour .
Southern parts of the zone (  पनामा और the caribbean ) do नहीं observe daylight  saving .
मानक रूप of the आवधिक  table .
The colors represent  अलग श्रेणी of तत्व  explained below .
The periodic table is a tabular  प्रदर्शक of the रासायनिक तत्व , व्यवस्थित on the आधार of उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ ,  electron configurations , and recurring chemical properties .
Elements are presented  in अनुक्रम of increasing परमाणु क्रमांक  ( number of protons ) .
the मानक रूप of तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड  or main body of elements , positioned above a smaller double row of elements .
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the  s-block to the बाएँ , the p-block to the सही , the d-block in the मध्य , और the f-block  below that .
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns  of the s- , d- , और p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह , साथ कुछ of ये having names ऐसे as the हैलोजन्स  or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be  प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध between the गुण of the तत्व और भविष्यवाणी the गुण of नई , yet to be खोजा or synthesized  , elements .
As a result , a periodic table—whether in the standard form or  कुछ अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing रासायनिक बर्ताव , और ऐसे टेबल  are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
Although precursors exist , Dmitri Mendeleev  is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन , in 1869 , of the पहला widely  recognized periodic table .
He  विकसित उसके तालिका to illustrate आवधिक  trends in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some  गुण of then-unknown तत्व कि होता be अपेक्षित  to fill gaps in this table .
Most of his  पूर्वानुमान यहूद proved सही जब the तत्व in सवाल यहूद  subsequently discovered .
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded  और परिष्कृत साथ the डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further नई तत्व और the विकास of नई सैद्धांतिक मॉडल to बताइये रासायनिक बर्ताव  .
All  तत्व इससे परमाणु संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118  ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized .
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally , although some are found only in trace  amounts और यहूद initially खोजा by संश्लेषण in laboratories  .
The elements  बाद 98 have तभी महरूम synthesized  in laboratories .
उत्पादन of तत्व परे ununoctium is होने धड़ा , साथ the सवाल of कैसा the आवधिक तालिका may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate  any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic  radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित  in laboratories .
Minecraft is a  सैंडबॉक्स इंडी खेल originally निर्मित by स्वीडिश प्रोग्रामर markus `` पायदान '' persson और बाद  developed and published by Mojang .
It was publicly released  लिये the pc on may 17 , 2009 , as a developmental अल्फा संस्करण और , बाद क्रमिक अद्यतन  , was published as a full release version on November 18 , 2011 .
A version for Android was  released a माह पहले on अक्तूबर 7 , और an आईओएस संस्करण थी released on नवम्बर  17 , 2011 .
On May 9 , 2012 , the game was released on Xbox  360 as an एक्सबॉक्स सजीव आर्केड खेल , co-developed by 4j studios  .
All  संस्करण of minecraft प्राप्त  periodic updates .
The creative and building aspects of Minecraft allow players to build  constructions आउट of textured घन in a 3d procedurally उत्पन्न संसार .
Other activities in the game  शामिल खोजी , महफ़िल संसाधन , crafting  and combat .
Gameplay in its commercial release has two  प्रिंसिपल मोड्स : अस्तित्व , जिससे requires खिलाड़ी to acquire संसाधन और maintain उनके स्वास्थ्य और भूख ; और रचनात्मक  , where players have an unlimited supply of resources , the ability to fly , and no health or hunger .
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as survival , differing only in difficulty ; it is  नियत to hardest सेटिंग और respawning is निष्क्रिय , forcing खिलाड़ी to हटाएँ उनके संसार upon मौत  .
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation Award , Best Downloadable Game Award , and the Best Debut  खेल पुरस्कार इससे the खेल डेवलपर चुनाव पुरस्कार ; और the दर्शक पुरस्कार , as खूब as the seumas mcnally ग्रैंड पुरस्कार , इससे the स्वतंत्र  Games Festival in 2011 .
In 2012 ,  minecraft थी awarded a सुनहरी जॉयस्टिक पुरस्कार in the श्रेणी बेहतरीन  Downloadable Game .
As of April 8 , 2013 , the game has sold over 10 million copies  on pc और as of जनवरी 22 , 2013 , over 20 लाख नक़ल आरपार  all platforms .
The  अंधेरा नाईट is a 2008 british-american सुपरहीरो फिल्मी निर्देशित , उत्पादित , और co-written  by Christopher Nolan .
Based on the  dc कॉमिक्स अक्षर बैटमैन , the फिल्मी is the दूसरी भाग of  Nolan 's Batman film series and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins .
Christian Bale reprises the lead role  of ब्रूस wayne/batman , साथ a returning डाल of माइकल caine as अल्फ्रेड pennyworth , गेरी  Oldman as James Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox .
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ) , Gotham 's newly elected District Attorney and the consort of  ब्रूस वेन 's बाल्यकाल dost रेचल dawes ( मैगी जिलएनहॉल ) , जो joins बैटमैन और the पुलिस in combating the नई उठती threat of a दण्ड मास्टरमाइंड कॉलिंग  himself `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ) .
Nolan 's inspiration for the film was the Joker 's  कॉमिक किताब डेब्यू in 1940 , the 1988 ग्राफिक अनोखा , और the 1996 श्रेणी , जिससे retold two-face  's origin .
The  उपनाम `` the अंधेरा नाईट '' थी पहला लागू to बैटमैन in बैटमैन no . 1 ( 1940 ) , in a  story written by Bill Finger .
The  अंधेरा नाईट थी फिल्माया primarily in शिकागो , as खूब as in अनेक  other locations in the United States , the United Kingdom , and Hong Kong .
Nolan used  an imax कैमरा to फिल्मी कुछ  sequences , including the Joker 's first appearance in the film .
On January 22 , 2008 , some months after he had completed filming on The  अंधेरा नाईट और छह महीने पहले the फिल्मी 's रिलीज , झाड़ लेजर died इससे a विषाक्त संयोजन of नुस्खा  drugs , leading to intense attention from the press and movie-going public .
Warner Bros.  था initially निर्मित a वाइरल विपणन अभियान लिये the अंधेरा नाईट , विकासशील promotional वेबसाइटों और trailers highlighting स्क्रीन  shots of Ledger as the Joker , but after Ledger 's death , the studio refocused its promotional campaign .
The Dark Knight was released on July 16 ,  2008 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , on जुलाई 18 , 2008 in उत्तर अमेरिका ,  and on July 24 , 2008 in the United Kingdom .
Considered  एक of the बेहतरीन films of the 2000s और एक of the बेहतरीन सुपरहीरो films कभी बना , the फिल्मी प्राप्त अत्यधिक धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ और नियत  numerous records during its theatrical run .
With over $ 1 billion in revenue worldwide , it is the  14th-highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब समय , unadjusted लिये महंगाई  .
The film received eight Academy Award nominations ; it won  the पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन ध्वनि संपादन और लेजर थी मरणोपरांत awarded बेहतरीन  Supporting Actor .
The Dark Knight Rises , the final part of  the त्रयी , थी released on जुलाई 20  , 2012 .
The timeline of  रेडियो सूचियाँ भीतर the इतिहास of रेडियो , the प्रौद्योगिकी और कार्यक्रम कि उत्पादित यंत्र कि उपयोग रेडियो लहरें और क्रियाएँ  that people undertook .
बाद , the इतिहास is वर्चस्व by प्रोग्रामिंग और  contents , which is closer to general history .
The Sydney Opera House is a  multi-venue performing कला केन्द्र in नई दक्षिण वेल्स  , Australia .
It was conceived and largely built by Danish  वास्तु jørn utzon , खोलने in 1973 बाद a long gestation कि began साथ उसके competition-winning  design in 1957 .
Joseph Cahill 's  नई दक्षिण वेल्स सरकारी दिया the go-ahead लिये कार्य  to begin in 1958 .
The government 's  बिंदास निर्णय to चुनें utzon 's डिज़ाइन is प्रायः निष्प्रभ  by the scandal that followed .
It is on Bennelong Point in Sydney  harbour , बंद to the सिडनी harbour  Bridge .
It sits at the northeastern tip of  the सिडनी सेंट्रल कारोबार ज़िला ( the सीबीडी ) , घिरी on तीन पहलू by the harbour  ( Sydney Cove and Farm Cove ) and inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens .
contrary to इसके नाम , it घरों अनेक  performance venues .
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the world , hosting over 1,500  प्रदर्शन प्रत्येक साल attended by कुछ 1.2 लाख  people .
It provides a venue for many performing-arts companies , including the four key  निवासी कंपनियाँ ओपेरा ऑस्ट्रेलिया , the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई बैले , the सिडनी थिएटर कम्पनी और the सिडनी सिंफनी ऑर्केस्ट्रा , और presents a चौड़ी दायरा of  productions on its own account .
It is also one of  the सबसे लोकप्रिय आगंतुक आकर्षण in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , साथ अधिक than सात लाख लोगों visiting  each year , 300,000 of whom take a guided tour .
It is  administered by the सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस विश्वास , अंतर्गत the नई दक्षिण  Wales Ministry of the Arts .
On 28  जून 2007 , it थी बना a  UNESCO World Heritage Site .
It is one  of the 20th सदी 's सबसे distinctive इमारतें और एक of the सबसे  famous performing arts centres in the world .
A  आलेख of देह द्रव्यमान अनुक्रमणिका as a फलन of देह द्रव्यमान और  body height is shown above .
The  dashed लाइनों represent subdivisions भीतर a प्रमुख  class .
For instance the `` Underweight ''  वर्गीकरण is further विभाजित into `` कठोर '' , `` मॉडरेट  '' , and `` mild '' subclasses .
The  देह द्रव्यमान अनुक्रमणिका ( बीएमआई ) , or quetelet अनुक्रमणिका , is a माप  for human body shape based on an individual 's weight and height .
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the  belgian बहुश्रुत adolphe quetelet दौरान the कोर्स of विकासशील `` सोशल  physics '' .
Body mass index is  पारिभाषित as the व्यक्तिगत 's देह द्रव्यमान विभाजित by the वर्गाकार  of their height .
The  formulae universally प्रयुक्त in आयुर्विज्ञान  produce a unit of measure of kg/m2 .
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart , which displays  बीएमआई as a फलन of वज़न ( आड़ा अक्ष ) और ऊँचाई ( लंबवत अक्ष ) using रुपरेखा लाइनों  for different values of BMI or colors for different BMI categories .
† The factor for UK/US units is more  precisely 703.06957964 , लकिन कि स्तर of परिशुद्धता is नहीं सार्थक  for this calculation .
To work from stone and pounds  पहला गुणा the स्टोन by 14 तब add the पाउंड to दे the पूरे द्रव्यमान in पाउंड ; to कार्य  from feet and inches first multiply the feet by 12 then add the inches to give the whole height in inches .
Thomas Paine ( January 29 ,  1737 ( ns फ़रवरी 9 , 1737 ) – जून 8 , 1809 ) थी an english-american राजनैतिक activist ,  author , political theorist and revolutionary .
As the author of  दो अत्यधिक influential pamphlets at the प्रारंभ of the अमरीकी  Revolution , he inspired the Patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain .
उसके विचार reflected आत्मज्ञान era बयानबाजी of transnational  human rights .
He has been called `` a  corsetmaker by व्यापार , a पत्रकार by व्यवसायिक , और a propagandist  by inclination . ''
Born in Thetford , England , in the county of Norfolk , Paine emigrated to the British American  colonies in 1774 साथ the सहायता of बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन और he arrived in समय  to participate in the American Revolution .
उसके प्रिंसिपल योगदान यहूद the शक्तिशाली , widely पढ़ा pamphlet आम भाव ( 1776 ) , the all-time best-selling अमरीकी किताब कि advocated  colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain , and The American Crisis ( 1776–83 ) , a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series .
Common Sense was so influential that John  एडम्स कहा , `` बगैर the कलम of the लेखक of आम भाव  , the sword of Washington would have been raised in vain.”
paine जिया in फ़्रांस लिये सबसे of the 1790s , बनने deeply  involved in the French Revolution .
He wrote the Rights of Man ( 1791 ) ,  in भाग a रक्षा of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति  against its critics .
His attacks on British  लेखक एडमंड बुर्के led to a विचारण और conviction in absentia in 1792 लिये the  crime of seditious libel .
In 1792 , despite not being able to speak French  , he थी निर्वाचित to the फ्रेंच नेशनल सम्मेलन  .
The  girondists regarded उसे as an ally  .
नतीजतन , the montagnards , विशेषकर robespierre  , regarded him as an enemy .
In December 1793 , he was  गिरफ्तार और imprisoned in पेरिस , तब released in 1794  .
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ) , his book that advocates  देववाद , promotes कारण और freethinking , और argues विरूद्ध institutionalized  religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular .
He also wrote the pamphlet Agrarian Justice ( 1795 ) , discussing the  origins of प्रॉपर्टी , और introduced the अवधारणा of a गारंटी  minimum income .
In 1802 , he  लौटे to अमेरिका जहाँ he died on जून  8 , 1809 .
Only six people attended  उसके अंत्येष्टि as he था महरूम ostracized  for his ridicule of Christianity .
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development  कि generate सुरक्षा और efficacy आंकड़ा ( or अधिक specifically , सूचना परिचय प्रतिकूल ड्रग प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of अन्य उपचार ) लिये स्वास्थ्य interventions (  e.g. , drugs , diagnostics , devices , therapy protocols ) .
They are conducted only after satisfactory information has been gathered on the quality of the non clinical  सुरक्षा , और स्वास्थ्य authority/ethics कमेटी स्वीकृति is granted in the देश जहाँ स्वीकृति of the ड्रग or यंत्र is  sought .
Previously , many  उभरते देशों किया नहीं आवश्यकता लोकल ट्रायल लिये उत्पाद  approvals .
Now , though  उभरते देशों स्टिल accept आंकड़ा इससे u.s./europe , वे भी आवश्यकता कुछ  local trials .
Depending on the type of product  और the स्टेज of इसके विकास , जांचकर्ताओं initially enroll स्वयंसेवक and/or मरीजों into छोटी पायलट अध्ययन , और subsequently conduct larger स्केल अध्ययन in  patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest .
As positive safety and efficacy data are  gathered , the क्रमांक of मरीजों is typically  increased .
नैदानिक ट्रायल can vary in आकार , और can involve a सिंगल शोध एंटिटी in एक देश  or many such entities in multiple countries .
A full  श्रेणी of ट्रायल may incur sizable लागत , और the बोझ of paying लिये सब the जरुरी लोगों और सेवाएं is प्रायः borne  by the sponsor , which may be a governmental organization or a pharmaceutical , biotechnology or medical device company .
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the resources of  the प्रायोजक , a नैदानिक विचारण is प्रबंधित by an outsourced संगी , ऐसे as a अनुबंध शोध संगठन or a नैदानिक ट्रायल  unit in the academic sector .
The Green Bay Packers are an  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in ग्रीन खाड़ी  , Wisconsin .
They are  सदस्यों of the उत्तर प्रभाग of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) in  the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Green Bay  is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the एनएफएल , having महरूम व्यवस्थित  and playing in 1919 .
The Packers  हैं the तभी non-profit , community-owned प्रमुख लीग  professional sports team in the United States .
the पैकर्स हैं the पिछला vestige of `` छोटी कस्बा टीमों '' कि यहूद एकबार आम  in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s .
संस्थापित in 1919 by अर्ल `` घुंघराले '' lambeau ( hence the नाम lambeau फ़ील्ड on जिससे the टोली plays ) और  George Whitney Calhoun , the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a  semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around विस्कॉन्सिन  and the Midwest .
They joined the American Professional  फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( apfa ) in 1921 , the forerunner to कया is ज्ञात आज as the नेशनल  Football League ( NFL ) .
Although Green Bay is the last NFL ``  छोटी कस्बा '' टोली , इसके लोकल प्रशंसक आधार और मीडिया extends into आसपास मिल्वौकी ; the टोली भी  played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ) , including nine NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era  और चार सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( सुपर कटोरी i ) , 1968 ( सुपर कटोरी ii ) , 1997 ( सुपर कटोरी xxxi ) और 2011 ( सुपर कटोरी xlv )  .
The Packers have long-standing , bitter rivalries with their NFC  उत्तर ( formerly the nfc सेंट्रल ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों , the शिकागो bears , मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स  and the Detroit Lions .
The  bears-packers फंसने is एक of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल इतिहास  , dating back to 1921 .
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl alcohol  ) , the वही प्रकार of दारू मिला in alcoholic पेय  .
It is  सबसे प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a मोटर ईंधन , मुख्यतः as a biofuel योगात्मक  for gasoline .
World ethanol  उत्पादन लिये हस्तांतरण ईंधन tripled between 2000  and 2007 from 17 billion to more than 52 billion liters .
From 2007 to 2008 , the share  of इथेनॉल in वैश्विक गैसोलीन प्रकार ईंधन उपयोग increased  from 3.7 % to 5.4 % .
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ) , with  the संयुक्त राज्य as the शीर्ष निर्माता साथ 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ) , हिसाब लिये 62.2 % of वैश्विक उत्पादन , followed  by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ) .
Ethanol fuel has a ``  गैसोलीन गैलन equivalency `` ( gge ) मान of , जिससे अर्थात् 1.5 गैलन of इथेनॉल उपज the  energy of one gallon of gasoline .
Ethanol fuel is widely used  in ब्राज़ील और in the संयुक्त राज्य , और साथ दोनो देशों यहूद जिम्मेदार  for 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel production in 2011 .
Most cars  on the सड़क आज in the u.S. can चलाएं on मिश्रणों of up to 10 % इथेनॉल , और इथेनॉल  represented 10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived from domestic sources in 2011 .
Since 1976 the Brazilian government has made it mandatory to blend ethanol with gasoline , and  चूंकि 2007 the विधिक मिश्रण is around 25 % इथेनॉल और 75 % गैसोलीन ( e25 )  .
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet of 14.8 million flex-fuel automobiles and light trucks and  1.5 लाख flex-fuel मोटरसाइकिल कि regularly उपयोग neat इथेनॉल ईंधन ( ज्ञात as e100  ) .
Bioethanol is a form of renewable energy  कि can be उत्पादित इससे agricultural feedstocks  .
It can be  बना इससे बहुत आम फसलों ऐसे as शुगर cane  , potato , manioc and corn .
वहीँ रै महरूम considerable बहस परिचय कैसा उपयोगी bioethanol  will be in replacing gasoline .
Concerns about its production and use  सुनाना to increased खाना कीमतें due to the विशाल राशि of arable जमीन जरूरी लिये फसलों , as खूब as the उर्जा और प्रदूषण संतुलन of the पूरे  cycle of ethanol production , especially from corn .
Recent developments with cellulosic ethanol  उत्पादन और व्यावसायीकरण may allay कुछ of ये  concerns .
Cellulosic ethanol offers promise  क्युकी cellulose मछली , a प्रमुख और सार्वभौमिक घटक in  plant cells walls , can be used to produce ethanol .
According to the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी , cellulosic इथेनॉल could allow इथेनॉल fuels to खेल a much बडे  role in the future than previously thought .
साब 9-3 sportcombi  BioPower .
The second E85 flexifuel model  introduced by साब in the स्वीडिश मार्केट  .
A  प्लैक commemorating the स्थान of the साराजेवो हत्या और कदम of gavrilo princip ( चित्र लिया in 1987 , पहले कदम यहूद removed in 1992 और प्लैक  changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque  commemorating the स्थान of the साराजेवो हत्या ( चित्र  taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of  ऑस्ट्रिया , वारिस presumptive to the austro-hungarian सिंहासन , और उसके बीवी , सोफी , duchess of hohenberg , यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो , by gavrilo princip  , one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The  राजनैतिक उद्देश्य of the हत्या थी to ब्रेक बंद austria-hungary 's  south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia .
The assassins ' motives  यहूद सतत साथ the गति कि बाद became ज्ञात  as Young Bosnia .
Serbian military  अधिकारियों stood पीछे the आक्रमण  .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin  dimitrijević , उसके righthand man प्रमुख vojislav tankosić , और masterspy rade malobabić  .
Major Tankosić  हथियारबंद the हत्यारे साथ बम और pistols  and trained them .
The assassins were given access to the same  clandestine टनल of safe-houses और एजेंटों कि rade malobabić प्रयुक्त लिये the घुसपैठ  of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the key members  of the clandestine टनल , और the कुंजी सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों जो यहूद स्टिल जिंदा यहूद गिरफ्तार  , tried , convicted and punished .
Those who were  गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया यहूद आजमाया in साराजेवो in अक्तूबर  1914 .
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo  अदालत on the french-controlled salonika सामने in 1916–1917 on unrelated गलत आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया तीन of the  top military conspirators .
Much of what  is ज्ञात परिचय the assassinations आता इससे ये दो ट्रायल और सम्बन्धित  records .
Assignment of  जिम्मेदारी लिये the bombing और हत्याएं of 28 जून is अत्यधिक विवादास्पद क्युकी  the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month later .
Renée Kathleen  zellweger ( born अप्रैल 25 , 1969 ) is an अमरीकी  actress and producer .
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry  मैग्वायर ( 1996 ) , और subsequently प्राप्त दो nominations लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ as ब्रिजेट जोन्स in the कॉमेडी ब्रिजेट जोन्स 's डायरी ( 2001 ) ,  and as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ) .
She won the Academy Award for Best  supporting अभिनेत्री लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the नाटक ठंडा पहाड़ (  2003 ) .
She has won an Academy Award , three Golden Globe Awards , three Screen Actors Guild Awards , and a BAFTA Award ; was  नामित hasty खीर 's स्त्री of the साल in 2009 ; और स्थापित herself as एक of the highest-paid  Hollywood actresses as of 2007 .
The  ossicles ( भी पुकारा auditory ossicles ) हैं the तीन smallest हड्डियों in the इंसान देह  , the malleus , the incus and the stapes .
They are contained within the middle ear space and  serve to संचारण ध्वनि इससे the एयर to the fluid-filled व्यामोह ( cochlea  ) .
The absence of the auditory  ossicles होता constitute a moderate-to-severe सुनना  loss .
The term `` ossicles  '' वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` छोटा हड्डियों '' और commonly refers to the auditory ossicles , हालांकि the पद may  refer to any small bone throughout the body .
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • — Greek • •  diatheke kaine ) is a biblical निर्वचन originally निकला इससे a phrase in the किताब of यिर्मयाह  , in the Hebrew Scriptures .
It is often thought of as an  eschatological मुक्तिदाता आयु or संसार to आइये और is सम्बन्धित to the biblical अवधारणा  of the Kingdom of God .
Generally , Christians believe that the New Covenant was instituted at the  पिछला भोजन as भाग of the eucharist , जिससे in the इन्जील of जॉन शामिल the नई commandment  .
There are several Christian eschatologies that  further define the नई वचन , as an उदाहरण an उदघाटन eschatology defines और describes the नई वचन as an जारी संबंध between ईसाई ईमानवालों और परमेश्वर कि होगा be in पूरा फलीभूत  after the Second Coming of Christ ; that is , it will not only be in full fruition in believing hearts , but in the future external world as well .
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the  नई वचन is देखी in सबसे आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद of the नई वसीयत साथ the saying : `` इस कप कि is poured आउट  for you is the new covenant in my blood '' .
Christians  मानना कि यीशु is the मध्यस्थ of the नई वचन , और कि the रक्त of मसीह शेड  at his crucifixion is the required blood of the covenant .
As with  सब covenants between परमेश्वर और man वर्णित in the बाइबल , the नई वचन  is considered `` a bond in blood sovereignly administered by God . ''
It has been  theorized कि the नई वचन is the विधि of मसीह  as spoken during his Sermon on the Mount .
The following List of people pardoned  or granted दया by the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States documents the most prominent cases of each presidency .
As granted by the Constitution ( Article II , Section 2 , Clause 1 )  , राष्ट्रपतियों have the शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया in एक or अधिक of the following तरीके : the क्षमता to ग्रान्ट a पूरा pardon  , to commute a sentence , or to rescind a fine .
U.S. Presidents have  no शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया लिये अपराधों prosecuted  under state law .
As to the  अंतर between a pardon और a commutation:
A pardon is an executive  अनुक्रम vacating a conviction .
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone  फिलहाल सेवारत a वाक्य लिये a अपराधों pursuant to a conviction , बगैर  vacating the conviction itself .
Approximately 20,000 pardons and  clemencies यहूद जारी by u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों in the 20th सदी अलोन  .
The  रिकॉर्ड of अधिनियमों of दया यहूद  public until 1934 .
In  1981 the दफ्तर of the pardon attorney थी निर्मित और रिकॉर्ड इससे  President H. W. Bush forward are now listed .
This list  शामिल pardons और commutations  .
Tampa (  ) is a नगर in the u.S. राज्य of  Florida .
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County  और is स्तिथ on the वेस्ट coast of फ्लोरिडा , on tampa खाड़ी निकट  the Gulf of Mexico .
The  जनसांख्यिकी of tampa in 2011 थी 346,037  .
The current location of Tampa was once inhabited by indigenous peoples of  the सुरक्षा हार्बर संस्कृति , सबसे notably the tocobaga और the pohoy , जो जिया साथ the shores of  Tampa Bay .
It was  briefly छान by स्पेनी explorers in the जल्दी 16th सदी , लकिन वहीँ यहूद no स्थाई अमरीकी or यूरोपीय settlements  within today 's city limits until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819 .
in 1824 , the संयुक्त राज्य फौज स्थापित a frontier चौकी पुकारा फोर्ट ब्रुक at the मुँह of  the Hillsborough River , near the site of today 's Tampa Convention Center .
The first civilian  निवासियों यहूद pioneers जो settled निकट the फोर्ट लिये सुरक्षा  from the nearby Seminole population .
The town grew  धीरे जबतक the 1880s , जब रेलरोड कड़ी , the डिस्कवरी of फास्फेट , और the आगमन of the सिगार उद्योग jump-started  Tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s .
आज , tampa is a भाग of the महानगर क्षेत्रफल  most commonly referred to as the Tampa Bay Area .
For U.S. Census purposes  , tampa is भाग of the tampa-st. petersburg-clearwater , फ्लोरिडा महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million  निवासियों , बनाना it the दूसरी largest महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ( एमएसए ) in the राज्य , और the चौथी largest in the southeastern  United States , behind Miami , Washington , D.C. , and Atlanta .
The Greater Tampa Bay area has just over  4 लाख निवासियों और generally शामिल the tampa  and Sarasota metro areas .
The Tampa Bay Partnership and U.S. Census data showed  an औसत सालाना विकास of 2.47 प्रतिशत , or a लाभ of लगभग 97,000 निवासियों प्रति साल  .
Between 2000 and 2006 , the Greater  tampa खाड़ी मार्केट अनुभवी a संयुक्त विकास रेट of 14.8 प्रतिशत , growing इससे 3.4 लाख to 3.9 लाख और hitting  the 4 million people mark on April 1 , 2007 .
A 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay  क्षेत्रफल जनसांख्यिकी to have 4,310,524 लोगों और a 2017 प्रक्षेप of 4,536,854 लोगों  .
Tampa has a number of sports teams ,  ऐसे as the tampa खाड़ी buccaneers of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग , the tampa खाड़ी बिजली of the  National Hockey League , and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League .
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the Tampa Bay  rowdies of the उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग खेल उनके घर खेल in  neighboring St. Petersburg , Florida .
In 2008 , Tampa was  क्रमित as the 5th बेहतरीन बाहरी  city by Forbes .
A 2004 survey by the NYU newspaper Washington Square News ranked Tampa  as a शीर्ष नगर लिये `` twenty-somethings .  ''
Tampa is now ranked  as a `` गामा '' संसार नगर  by Loughborough University .
According to Loughborough , Tampa ranks alongside other world  शहरों ऐसे as फीनिक्स , सेंटो डोमिंगो , और  Osaka .
In recent years Tampa has seen a  notable upsurge in high-market माँग इससे उपभोक्ता , signaling  more wealth concentrated in the area .
Tampa hosted the 2012  रिपब्लिकन नेशनल सम्मेलन  .
The Chevrolet Cavalier  थी a कॉम्पैक्ट ऑटोमोबाइल उत्पादित इससे 1982 to 2005 by  General Motors .
निर्मित on the कम्पनी 's j मंच , the cavalier उत्पादित the  highest sales in 1984 .
AT & T  गतिशीलता llc ब्रांडेड और referred to as at & t ( formerly cingular बेतार llc ) , is a wholly स्वामित्व subsidiary of at & t inc. कि provides बेतार सेवाएं to 107 लाख सदस्य in the संयुक्त राज्य  , including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands .
AT & T Mobility is the second largest wireless  दूरसंचार प्रदाता in the संयुक्त राज्य और प्यूर्टो रीको , पीछे verizon  Wireless , which serves 115.78 million customers as of the fourth quarter of 2012 .
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in the Lenox  पार्क क्षेत्रफल of dekalb co. जॉर्जिया , बस बाहर  Atlanta .
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC from 2000 to 2007 , a joint  venture between sbc संचार और bellsouth , the कम्पनी acquired the बूढ़ा at & t बेतार in 2004 ; sbc बाद acquired  the original AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T '' .
Cingular became  wholly स्वामित्व by at & t in दिसम्बर 2006 as a परिणाम of at & t 's  acquisition of BellSouth .
in जनवरी 2007 , cingular पुष्टि it होता re-brand  itself under the AT & T name .
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately , for  दोनो नियामक और brand-awareness कारण दोनो ब्रांड्स यहूद प्रयुक्त in the कम्पनी 's साइनेज और विज्ञापन दौरान  a transition period .
The transition concluded in late June , just  prior to the rollout of the ठहराना iphone .
On March 20 , 2011 , AT & T  गतिशीलता घोषित इसके इरादे to acquire t-mobile यूएसए इससे  Deutsche Telekom for $ 39 billion .
If it  था प्राप्त सरकारी और नियामक स्वीकृति , at  & T would have had more than 130 million subscribers .
However , the U.S. Department of Justice , the Federal Communications Commission , and  at & t गतिशीलता 's प्रतिस्पर्धी ( ऐसे as स्प्रिंट nextel ) opposed the मूव on the grounds कि it होता reduce प्रतियोगिता in the सेल्यूलर संचार मार्केट  .
In December 2011 , in the face of both governmental and  फैली उपभोक्ता विपक्ष , at & t withdrew उनके प्रस्ताव  to complete the merger .
Martin Luther King , Jr. ( January 15 , 1929  – अप्रैल 4 , 1968 ) थी an अमरीकी clergyman , activist , और नेता in the african-american  Civil Rights Movement .
He is best known for  उसके भूमिका in the उन्नति of सिविल अधिकारों using nonviolent  civil disobedience .
King has  become a नेशनल प्रतीक in the इतिहास of अमरीकी प्रगतिवाद  .
A Baptist minister ,  किंग became a सिविल अधिकारों activist जल्दी in उसके  career .
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus  बहिष्कार और helped मिला the दक्षिणी ईसाई नेतृत्व सम्मेलन (  SCLC ) in 1957 , serving as its first president .
With the SCLC , King led an  unsuccessful संघर्ष विरूद्ध पृथक्करण in albany , जॉर्जिया , in 1962 , और व्यवस्थित nonviolent विरोध in बर्मिंघम , अलबामा , कि आकर्षित नेशनल ध्यान  following television news coverage of the brutal police response .
किंग भी helped to व्यवस्थित the 1963 कूच on वॉशिंगटन  , where he delivered his `` I Have a Dream `` speech .
वहीँ , he स्थापित उसके प्रतिष्ठा as एक  of the greatest orators in American history .
He also established his  प्रतिष्ठा as a कट्टरपंथी , और became an ऑब्जेक्ट of the संघीय ब्यूरो of छानबीन 's cointelpro  for the rest of his life .
FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties , recorded his  extramarital liaisons और reported on उन्हें to सरकारी officials , और on एक अवसर , mailed किंग a threatening बेनाम अक्षर कि he interpreted as an attempt to मेक उसे कमिट  suicide .
On October 14 , 1964 , King received the Nobel Peace  पुरस्कार लिये combating जातिगत असमानता through nonviolence  .
In 1965 , he and the SCLC helped to  व्यवस्थित the selma to मोंटगोमरी marches और the following साल , he took  the movement north to Chicago .
In the final years of his life , King expanded his focus to include poverty and the Vietnam War ,  alienating अनेक of उसके उदार allies साथ a 1967 वाक titled `` परे  Vietnam '' .
King was planning a national occupation of  वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , पुकारा the ग़रीब  People 's Campaign .
King was  assassinated on अप्रैल 4 , 1968 , in मेम्फिस , टेनेसी  .
His death was  followed by दंगे in अनेक u.S.  cities .
Allegations that James Earl Ray , the man convicted of  हत्या किंग , था महरूम framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट साथ सरकारी एजेंटों persisted लिये दशकों बाद the शूटिंग ,  and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King .
King was awarded the  अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता और the congressional सुनहरा पदक  posthumously .
Martin Luther King , Jr. Day was  स्थापित as a u.S. संघीय अवकाश in 1986  .
Hundreds of streets in the  u.S. have महरूम renamed in उसके सम्मान  .
A memorial statue on  the नेशनल मॉल थी खोली to the पब्लिक  in 2011 .
The  बाघ ( पेंथेरा tigris ) is the largest बिल्ली प्रजाति , reaching  a total body length of up to and weighing up to .
It is the third largest land carnivore ( behind only  the ध्रुवीय भालू और the भूरा भालू  ) .
Its  सबसे recognizable विशेषता is a पैटर्न of अंधेरा लंबवत धारियाँ  on reddish-orange fur with a lighter underside .
it रै exceptional stout दांत , और the canines हैं the  longest among living felids with a crown height of as much as or even .
In zoos ,  टाइगर्स have जिया लिये 20 to 26 सालो , जिससे भी seems to be उनके  longevity in the wild .
They  हैं territorial और generally एकान्त लकिन सोशल पशु , प्रायः requiring विशाल  contiguous areas of habitat that support their prey requirements .
This , coupled with the fact that they are  स्वदेशी to कुछ of the अधिक densely आबादी स्थान on धरती , रै caused significant  conflicts with humans .
Tigers once ranged widely across Asia , from  तुर्कों in the वेस्ट to the पूर्वी coast of रूस  .
Over the past 100 years  , वे have खोया 93 % of उनके ऐतिहासिक दायरा , और have महरूम extirpated इससे दक्षिणपश्चिम और सेंट्रल एशिया , इससे the आइलैंड्स  of Java and Bali , and from large areas of Southeast and Eastern Asia .
Today ,  वे दायरा इससे the siberian ताइगा to खोलें grasslands  and tropical mangrove swamps .
The remaining six tiger subspecies have  महरूम वर्गीकृत as endangered by आईयूसीएन  .
The global population in the wild is estimated to number  between 3,062 और 3,948 individuals , bas इससे around 100,000 at the प्रारंभ of the 20th सदी , साथ सबसे बाकी populations occurring in छोटी  pockets isolated from each other .
Major reasons for  जनसांख्यिकी मनाही शामिल आवास विनाश , आवास fragmentation  and poaching .
The extent of area occupied by  टाइगर्स is अनुमानित at कम than , a 41 % मनाही इससे the क्षेत्रफल अनुमानित in the mid-1990s  .
Tigers are among the most  recognisable और लोकप्रिय of the संसार 's charismatic महाप्राणी  .
They have featured prominently in ancient  mythology और लोकगीत , और continue to be चित्रित in आधुनिक films और साहित्य  .
Tigers appear on many flags ,  coats of बाहें , और as mascots लिये sporting टीमों  .
The Bengal  बाघ is the नेशनल एनिमल of दोनो इण्डिया  and Bangladesh .
The simplified  आतंरिक ढांचा of a  chloroplast
Overview of  the calvin साईकिल और  carbon fixation
the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis हैं रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ कि  convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These  प्रतिक्रियाएँ occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled क्षेत्रफल of a हरितलवक बाहर  of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take  the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ और perform further  chemical processes on them .
There  हैं तीन phases to the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ , collectively पुकारा the calvin साईकिल : कार्बन fixation , कटौती  reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name ,  इस प्रक्रम occurs तभी जब लाइट is उपलब्धियाँ  .
Plants do not  carry आउट the calvin साईकिल by रात्रि  .
They  , बजाय , रिलीज sucrose  into the phloem from their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of  photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन fixation , c4 कार्बन fixation , और crassulacean एसिड चयापचय ) ; कैम पौधे स्टोर malic एसिड in उनके vacuoles प्रत्येक रात्रि और रिलीज it by दिन in अनुक्रम to मेक इस प्रक्रम  work .
A linen handkerchief  साथ खींचा लड़ी कढ़ाई around the  edges
Linen cloth  बरामद इससे qumran गुफा 1 निकट the मुर्दे समुद्र  .
Linen ( ) is a  वस्त्र बना इससे the मछली of the flax संयंत्र , linum  usitatissimum .
Linen is labor-intensive to  manufacture , लकिन जब it is बना into garments , it is valued लिये इसके  exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather .
The  शब्द `` लिनेन '' is of वेस्ट germanic उत्पत्ति और cognates साथ  the Latin name for the flax plant linum , and the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ) .
This word history has given rise to a number of  अन्य शर्तें in अंग्रेज़ी , the सबसे notable of जिससे is the अंग्रेज़ी शब्द लकीर , निकला इससे the उपयोग of a लिनेन ( flax ) लड़ी to determine  a straight line .
Textiles in a linen  बुनते बनावट , भी जब बना of कपास , गांजा और अन्य non-flax मछली हैं  also loosely referred to as `` linen '' .
Such fabrics generally have their  अपना विशिष्ट names अन्य than लिनेन ; लिये उदाहरण , ठीक कपास धागे in a  linen-style weave is called Madapolam .
The collective term ``  linens `` is स्टिल प्रायः प्रयुक्त generically to describe a क्लास of woven  and even knitted bed , bath , table and kitchen textiles .
The name  linens is retained क्युकी traditionally , लिनेन थी प्रयुक्त  for many of these items .
In the past , the word  `` linens '' थी भी प्रयुक्त to औसत lightweight undergarments ऐसे as शर्ट , chemises , waistshirts , lingerie ( a शब्द भी cognate  with linen ) , and detachable shirt collars and cuffs , which were historically made almost exclusively out of linen .
The inside cloth layer of fine composite clothing garments ( as for  उदाहरण jackets ) थी traditionally बना of लिनेन , और इस is  the origin of the word lining .
Linen textiles appear to  be कुछ of the oldest in the संसार : उनके इतिहास goes वापस अनेक  thousands of years .
Fragments of straw , seeds , fibers , yarns , and  विभिन्न प्रकार of fabrics जिससे तिथि वापस to  about 8000 BC have been found in Swiss lake dwellings .
Dyed flax fibers  मिला in a प्रागैतिहासिक गुफा in जॉर्जिया सुझाएँ the उपयोग of woven लिनेन fabrics  from wild flax may date back even earlier to 36,000 BP .
Linen was sometimes used as  करेंसी in प्राचीन मिश्र  .
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in linen because  it थी देखी as a प्रतीक of लाइट और पवित्रता , और as a प्रदर्शक  of wealth .
Some of these fabrics ,  woven इससे हाथ spun yarns , यहूद बहुत ठीक लिये उनके  day , but are coarse compared to modern linen .
Today ,  लिनेन is प्रायः an महंगी वस्त्र , और is उत्पादित  in relatively small quantities .
It  रै a long `` स्टेपल '' ( व्यक्तिगत रेशा लंबाई ) सापेक्ष  to cotton and other natural fibers .
Many  उत्पाद हैं बना of लिनेन : aprons , बैग , तौलिये ( swimmers , नहाना , बीच , देह और धो तौलिये )  , napkins , bed linens , linen tablecloths , runners , chair covers , and men 's & women 's wear .
The FIFA  संसार कप , प्रायः बस the संसार कप , is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ  men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been  awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930 , मगर in 1942 और 1946  when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The current champions  हैं स्पेन , जो जीती the 2010 टूर्नामेंट  .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host  स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस phase is प्रायः पुकारा the संसार कप  Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place  over the preceding तीन सालो , is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify  for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19  संसार कप tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ अलग  national teams .
Brazil have  जीती पाँच टाइम्स , और वे हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई  in every tournament .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four titles ; Germany  , साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे , साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड , फ़्रांस , और स्पेन  , with one title each .
The World Cup is the  संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख लोगों  watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by  ब्राज़ील in 2014 , रूस in 2018 , और क़तर in 2022  .
The is an expansion  यंत्र लिये the वी रिमोट वीडियो खेल नियंत्रक लिये the वी कि allows it to अधिक accurately  capture complex motion .
According  to निन्टेंडो , the सेंसर in the यंत्र पूरक the accelerometer और सेंसर बार  capabilities of the Wii Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real time .
the वी 's successor कंसोल , the वी u , supports the वी motionplus और  its peripherals in games where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary .
Majulah Singapura ( Onward  सिंगापुर ) is the नेशनल गान of सिंगापुर  .
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song for official functions of the City Council of Singapore  , the सोंग थी चयनित in 1959 as the द्वीप 's गान जब  it attained self-government .
Upon full independence in 1965  , majulah singapura थी formally अपनाया as सिंगापुर  's national anthem .
By law the anthem may only be sung with its  असली मलय गीत , हालांकि वहीँ मौजूद प्राधिकृत अनुवाद of the गीत of the गान  in Singapore 's three other official languages : English , Mandarin and Tamil .
Originally composed in the key of G major , in  2001 the नेशनल गान थी officially relaunched in the निम्नतर कुंजी of f प्रमुख as इस थी  said to allow for a `` grander and more inspiring arrangement '' .
The national anthem is regularly performed  or सुंग in स्कूलों और हथियारबंद शक्तियां शिविरों at ceremonies आयोजित at the शुरूआत and/or the  end of each day , during which the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken .
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on occasions of national celebration or national significance such as at the National Day Parade , at National  दिन observance ceremonies conducted by शैक्षणिक संस्थानों और सरकारी विभाग , और at sporting कार्यक्रम at जिससे सिंगापुर  teams are participating .
An expedition 's shipwrights  भवन  a brigantine , 1541 .
shipbuilding is the निर्माण of जहाजों और फ्लोटिंग  vessels .
It  सामान्यतः takes प्लेस in a specialized सुविधा  known as a shipyard .
shipbuilders , भी पुकारा shipwrights , follow a specialized occupation  that traces its roots to before recorded history .
Shipbuilding  और जलयान मरम्मत , दोनो वाणिज्यिक और सैन्य , हैं  referred to as `` naval engineering '' .
The  निर्माण of नौकाएँ is a समान कार्यकलाप पुकारा  boat building .
the dismantling of जहाजों is पुकारा  ship breaking .
Wakonda is a town in  मिट्टी काउंटी , दक्षिण डकोटा , संयुक्त  States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 321 at the  2010 census .
The following is a list of  the सबसे populous incorporated स्थान  of the United States of America .
As defined by the United States Census Bureau , an `` incorporated  प्लेस `` शामिल a किस्में of designations , सहित नगर , कस्बा , गाँव , बरो  , and municipality .
A few exceptional Census  designated स्थान ( cdps ) हैं भी शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's लिस्टिंग  of incorporated places .
Consolidated  city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी कि शामिल the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी  of a county , or county equivalent .
Some  संचित city-counties , however , शामिल अनेक incorporated  places .
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such  संचित city-counties कि हैं नहीं a भाग of another incorporated  place .
Note that this list refers only to the  जनसांख्यिकी of व्यक्तिगत municipalities भीतर उनके पारिभाषित हद , जिससे करता नहीं शामिल अन्य municipalities or unincorporated  suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
A  अलग रैंकिंग is evident जब considering u.S.  metropolitan area populations .
alt=larger flashcart , दिखाया साथ छोटी कार्ड और  U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's  work-in-progress बिंब , homebrew वीडियो खेल और डाउनलोड वाणिज्यिक खेल ( चूंकि the निन्टेंडो ds is नहीं बेची साथ a  rewritable storage medium ) .
Licensed developers , however ,  can उपयोग a ब्लू बुद्धिमान प्रणालियों नाइट्रो emulator बक्सा to फ्लैश  cards .
These  डिवाइस हैं भी ज्ञात as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards  '' .
There are two main classes of  flashcarts : पुरानी डिवाइस जिससे अनुरूप in slot-2 ( the खेल लड़के अग्रिम खेल पाक स्लॉट ) और नए  devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ) .
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due  to economies of स्केल ( inherited इससे उनके उपयोग साथ खेल लड़के अग्रिम ) , लकिन आवश्यकता a booting  tool in Slot-1 in order to use the touch screen and other DS features .
Second-generation devices ( those which  तभी उपयोग slot-1 ) do नहीं कार्य साथ gba homebrew , लकिन became कम महंगी और easier  to use , rivaling many Slot-2 devices in price .
First-generation devices include  gba फ्लैश कारतूस , gbamp cf , supercard  , and M3 .
Second-generation devices  शामिल r4 क्रान्ति , cyclods , g6 रियल और  DS-X .
The  भंडार यंत्र either contains फ्लैश मेमोरी or a  slot for a memory card to store homebrew .
Storage devices with a memory-card slot usually have  अधिक भंडार क्षमता than flash-memory डिवाइस  .
Although  flash-memory क्षमता is प्रायः measured in megabits ( mb ) , memory-card क्षमता is प्रायः  measured in megabytes ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ) .
Storage-device brands differ in their support for  homebrew ; ds और खेल लड़के अग्रिम roms ; खास सुविधाएँ ( ऐसे as क्षमता to  play media files ) ; physical size and cost .
Strictly speaking , a storage device is not necessary for DS with  flashme संस्थापित क्युकी homebrew can be भेजा to the ds  using WMB .
However , this is not  an easily-portable विधि क्युकी the ds needs to be भीतर  range of a suitable Wi-Fi card .
are American  लोगों of जापानी विरासत  .
Japanese Americans have historically been among the  तीन largest एशियाई अमरीकी समुदायों , लकिन in हाल दशकों , it रै become  the sixth largest group at roughly 1,304,286 , including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity .
In the 2010 census , the largest Japanese  अमरीकी समुदायों यहूद मिला in कैलिफ़ोर्निया साथ 272,528 , हवाई साथ 185,502 , नई यॉर्क साथ 37,780  , Washington with 35,008 , and Illinois with 17,542 .
Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै the largest japanese-american जनसांख्यिकी  in North America .
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which highlights significant  उपलब्धियाँ और माइलस्टोन आधारित upon बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका 's singles चार्ट , सबसे notably the  Billboard Hot 100 .
This list spans from the  समस्या दिनाँक जनवरी 1 , 1955 to  present .
The Billboard Hot 100 began with the issue  दिनाँक अगस्त 4 , 1958 , और is फिलहाल the मानक लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक चार्ट in  the United States .
Prior to the creation of the Hot  100 , बिलबोर्ड प्रकाशित चार singles चार्ट : `` बेहतरीन विक्रेता in स्टोर्स '' , `` सबसे निभाई by jockeys '' , ``  Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 '' .
These charts , which ranged from 20  to 100 स्लॉट , यहूद phased आउट at अलग टाइम्स between 1957 और 1958  .
हालांकि technically नहीं भाग of the hot 100 चार्ट इतिहास , उनके आंकड़ा is शामिल  for computational purposes , and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations .
All items listed  नीचे हैं इससे the hot 100 era , जबतक वरना  noted ( pre-Hot 100 charts ) .
V is an American science fiction  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि भागा लिये दो सीज़न on एबीसी , इससे नवम्बर 3 , 2009  to March 15 , 2011 .
A remake of the 1983  miniseries निर्मित by केनेथ जॉनसन , the नई श्रेणी क्रॉनिकल्स the आगमन on धरती of a technologically  advanced alien species which ostensibly comes in peace , but actually has sinister motives .
V stars Morena  baccarin , lourdes benedicto , मॉरिस शाहबलूत , जोएल gretsch , लोगन huffman , चार्ल्स mesure , एलिज़ाबेथ  Mitchell , Laura Vandervoort and Scott Wolf , and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum , Yves Simoneau , Scott Peters , and Jace Hall .
The series was  उत्पादित by the स्कॉट पीटर्स कम्पनी , hdfilms और  Warner Bros. Television .
Geocaching is an outdoor recreational  कार्यकलाप , in जिससे the भागीदार उपयोग a वैश्विक positioning प्रणाली ( gps ) receiver or मोबाईल यंत्र और अन्य navigational तकनीकों to छुपा और तलाश containers , पुकारा `` geocaches '' or  `` caches '' , anywhere in the world .
A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook  जहाँ the geocacher enters the तिथि वे मिला it और लक्षण it साथ उनके स्थापित  code name .
After signing into the log , the  संचय जरूर be लगाई वापस exactly जहाँ the व्यक्ति मिला it  .
Larger containers such as plastic storage containers ( Tupperware or similar  ) or ammunition बाक्स can भी contain वस्तुएं लिये व्यापार , प्रायः खिलौने or trinkets  of little value .
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking , trigpointing , orienteering  , treasure-hunting , letterboxing , और waymarking  .
Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop  समूह कि थी originally रचित of krs-one , d-nice , और dj स्कॉट  La Rock .
DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on  अगस्त 27 , 1987 , महीने बाद the रिलीज of  BDP 's debut album , Criminal Minded .
The name of the group  , बोगी bas , गर्भाशयी इससे a उपनाम लिये the दक्षिण bronx खण्ड of the bronx , एक  of the five boroughs of New York City .
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae  और हिप हॉप म्यूज़िक और उनके डेब्यू lp दण्ड minded contained फ़्रैंक descriptions of जीवन in the  South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap .
A  नगरपालिका बंध is a बंध जारी by a लोकल सरकारी  , or their agencies .
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states , cities , counties , redevelopment agencies ,  special-purpose जिले , स्कूल जिले , पब्लिक यूटिलिटी जिले , सरेआम स्वामित्व एयरपोर्ट और seaports , और कोई अन्य सरकारी एंटिटी ( or समूह of सरकारें ) at or  below the state level .
Municipal  bonds may be सामान्य दायित्वों of the जारीकर्ता  or secured by specified revenues .
In the United States , interest income received by holders of municipal bonds is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the income tax of the  राज्य in जिससे वे हैं जारी , हालांकि नगरपालिका bonds जारी लिये निश्चित उद्देश्य may नहीं be कर  exempt .
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to market with price restrictions until the deal is sold ,  नगरपालिका bonds हैं फ़्री to व्यापार at कोई समय एकबार वे हैं खरीदा  by the investor .
Professional traders  regularly व्यापार और retrade the वही bonds अनेक टाइम्स a सप्ताह  .
`` Gim me Some  lovin ' '' is a सोंग लिखा by स्टीव winwood , स्पेंसर डेविस और muff winwood , और originally  performed by The Spencer Davis Group .
The basic riff of the song was borrowed from the  होमर बैंको सोंग `` ( ai n't कि ) a लॉट of प्रेम '' , लिखा by बैंको और  Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker .
`` Gim me  कुछ lovin ' '' थी a uk # 2 in the पतझड़  of 1966 and a US # 7 .
The song is ranked # 247 on  the रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's सूची of the 500 महानतम  Songs of All Time .
The version issued in the UK (  और संभवतः सबसे of यूरोपीय ) is अलग इससे कि जारी in the us on the संयुक्त कलाकारों लेबल , होने धीमा , और lacking  the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single .
( The US version  रै अधिक प्रायः महरूम प्रयुक्त on reissue cds  , even those coming from Europe . )
The single features  the ध्वनि of the हैमंड b-3 अंग  .
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of information  सम्बन्धित to films , टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम , और वीडियो खेल  .
This includes actors , production  क्रू कर्मियों , और fictional वर्ण प्रदर्शित in ये तीन विज़ुअल entertainment  media .
It is one of the most popular online entertainment  गंतव्यों , साथ over 100 लाख अद्वितीय उपयोक्ता प्रत्येक माह और a ठोस और rapidly  growing mobile presence .
IMDb was launched on October 17 ,  1990 , और in 1998 थी acquired by  Amazon.com .
as of अप्रैल 27 , 2013 , आईएमडीबी था 2,503,783 शीर्षक ( शामिल एपीसोड )  and 5,192,493 personalities in its database , as well as 43 million registered users .
the जालस्थल रै an एलेक्सा  rank of 48 .
Fibre Channel  मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( 64-bit pci-x कार्ड  )
SCSI Host Bus  एडाप्टर ( 16-bit isa  card )
In computer hardware , a host controller , host adapter , or  मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( hba ) connects a मेजबान प्रणाली ( the कंप्यूटर ) to अन्य संजाल और भंडार डिवाइस  .
The terms are primarily used to  refer to डिवाइस लिये connecting scsi , fibre चैनल  and eSATA devices .
However , devices for connecting to IDE ,  ईथरनेट , firewire , usb और अन्य प्रणालियों may भी be पुकारा मेजबान adapters  .
Recently , the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought about  ईथरनेट hbas , जिससे हैं अलग इससे ईथरनेट nics in कि वे शामिल टीसीपी offload  Engines .
There are also converged HBAs that  support दोनो ईथरनेट और fibre चैनल पुकारा converged संजाल  Adapters ( CNAs ) .
cashmere स्कार्फ
Modern men 's  cashmere sweaters लिये बिक्री  .
Cashmere wool , usually  बस ज्ञात as cashmere , is a रेशा प्राप्त इससे cashmere बकरियों  and other types of goat .
The word cashmere  गर्भाशयी इससे an बूढ़ा  spelling of Kashmir .
Cashmere is fine  in बनावट , दमदार , लाइट , और  soft .
Garments made  इससे it provide बेहतरीन इन्सुलेशन  .
In the United States , under the U.S . Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 , as  amended , ( 15 uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ) , राज्य कि a ऊन or वस्त्र उत्पाद may नहीं be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool product is the  ठीक ( dehaired ) undercoat मछली उत्पादित by a cashmere बकरी ( capra  hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the  रेशा of ऐसे ऊन उत्पाद करता नहीं exceed  19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain  अधिक than 3 प्रतिशत ( by वज़न ) of cashmere मछली साथ औसत diameters कि exceed  30 microns .
the औसत रेशा व्यास may be विषय to a गुणांक of विभिन्नता around the औसत कि  shall not exceed 24 percent .
जेनिफर convertibles inc. is the मालिक और licensor of sofabed और चमड़े specialty खुदरा स्टोर्स in the संयुक्त राज्य , साथ स्टोर्स स्तिथ throughout the पूर्वी  seaboard , in the Midwest , on the West Coast and in the Southwest .
the कम्पनी थी संस्थापित in 1975 और is आधारित  in Woodbury , New York .
On July 19 , 2010 , the  कम्पनी घोषित कि it था दायर लिये दिवालियापन as a consequence of `` substantial  losses '' .
According to Furniture Today the  कम्पनी थी क्रमांक 48 among फर्नीचर रिटेलर साथ us $ 114 लाख  in sales for the year ending August 29 , 2009 .
it subsequently उभरा इससे अध्याय 11 अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of इसके  major supplier , the Haining Mengnu Group .
Egg roll is a term used for many  अलग भोजन around the संसार .
2__egg_roll __ किस्में of अंडा रोल्स हैं मिला in मेनलैंड चीन , अनेक chinese-speaking regions  of Asia , and Chinese immigrant communities around the world .
Egg rolls as  referred to in चीन .
In Guangdong and Hong Kong  , अंडा फेंकें प्रायः refers to बिस्किट फेंकें .
इस is a प्रकार of बिस्किट  .
the संघटक शामिल  egg , flour and sugar .
Egg roll also is a dish in  कैण्टन और हांग काँग , इस is प्रायः बना साथ सब्ज़ी  .
Within  चीन अंडा रोल्स हैं खाया predominantly in the southeast और हैं नहीं as commonly  consumed in the north and western parts of China .
In American Chinese  भोजन , an अंडा फेंकें is a savory डिश typically परोसा  as an appetizer .
It is usually stuffed with chicken , pork or shrimp , cabbage ,  गाजर , टमाटर , सेम sprouts और अन्य सब्जियां , और तब गहन fried  .
This variety  of the अंडा फेंकें is बहुत आम और लोकप्रिय , आरपार भी क्षेत्रीय किस्में of अमरीकी चाइनीज खाना  , and is often included as part of a `` combination platter '' .
In Montreal , Canada ,  open-ended eggrolls हैं a jewish-chinese संलयन डिश  .
They can be either  कोषेर certified or merely कोषेर  style .
Pain and suffering is the legal  पद लिये the शारीरिक और emotional तनाव caused इससे an चोट ( देखिए भी पीड़ा  and suffering ) .
Some  क्षतिपूर्ति कि might be अंतर्गत इस श्रेणी होता be : aches , अस्थाई और स्थाई सीमाएं on कार्यकलाप  , potential shortening of life , depression or scarring .
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an injury , it is common for  किसी to तलाश धन दोनो in मुआवजे लिये वास्तविक धन कि is खोया और लिये the  pain and stress associated with virtually any injury .
In a suit ,  पीड़ा और कष्ट is भाग of the `` सामान्य क्षतिपूर्ति '' खण्ड of the claimant 's अर्जी , or , alternatively , it is an तत्व of `` compensatory '' non-economic क्षतिपूर्ति कि allows  recovery for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress .
Apart from money  क्षतिपूर्ति awarded in विचारण , धन क्षतिपूर्ति हैं भी दिए informally बाहर the न्यायिक प्रणाली in mediations , मध्यस्थता ( दोनो of जिससे may be अदालत annexed or गैर litigated  claims ) as well as in routine insurance settlements .
व्यक्तिगत claimants or those represented by वकील प्रायः  present demands to insurers to settle for money .
These  माँग लिये bodily चोट मुआवजे monies प्रायः  set out damages that are similarly used in the court litigated pleadings .
Demands are  प्रायः लिखा summaries of a claimant 's चिकित्सा  care and the facts which resulted in the injury .
नमूना of a medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी  stampIn
the United States  और कनाडा , a medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी is a खास हस्ताक्षर  guarantee for the transfer of securities .
It is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the  हस्ताक्षर is वास्तविक और the वित्तीय संस्था स्वीकृत देयता लिये कोई जालसाजी  .
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by preventing  अनधिकृत हस्तांतरण और संभावित  investor losses .
They also  सीमा the देयता of the ट्रांसफ़र एजेंट  who accepts the certificates .
Different institutions have different policies as to what type of  पहचान वे आवश्यकता to provide the गारंटी और whether वे चार्ज a शुल्क लिये ऐसे  service ( usually nominal if any ) .
Most institutions will not guarantee a signature  of किसी जो रै नहीं already महरूम उनके ग्राहक  .
A medallion signature  गारंटी is नहीं the वही as an acknowledgment by a नोटरी पब्लिक , in the भाव कि a `` हस्ताक्षर गारंटी '' is a प्रमाणन by the संस्था  that the signature is authentic , and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting that the signer signed a document voluntarily .
Some banks may no longer provide this service , however ,  अनेक स्टिल do as खूब as अन्य वित्तीय संस्थानों ऐसे as a बचत और लोन  and Credit Unions .
At their sole discretion , these institutions may  स्टिल मनाही to provide the medallion हस्ताक्षर guarantees  .
When US citizens are  विदेश , कुछ वित्तीय संस्थानों may accept संयुक्त राज्य दूतावास seals ,  in place of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp .
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars  stacked at a junkyard on टर्मिनल द्वीप , लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , March 1956
The General Motors streetcar  षड्यंत्र ( भी ज्ञात as the ग्रेट अमरीकी स्ट्रीटकार कांड ) refers to दोषारोपण और convictions in संबंध to a कार्यक्रम by सामान्य मोटर्स ( gm ) और अन्य  companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities .
Between 1936 and 1950 , National City Lines and  प्रशांत नगर लाइनों —with निवेश इससे gm , firestone टायर , मानक आयल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , phillips पेट्रोलियम , mack ट्रक , और the संघीय अभियान्त्रिकी corporation—bought over 100 इलेक्ट्रिक surface-traction प्रणालियों in 45 शहरों सहित बाल्टीमोर , न्यूर्क , लॉस एंजिल्स , नई  York City , Oakland and San Diego and converted them into bus operation .
अनेक of the कंपनियाँ शामिल यहूद convicted in 1949 of षड्यंत्र to monopolize अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स लकिन यहूद acquitted  of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies .
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the United States ; notably  एडविन J. quinby , जो पहला खींचा ध्यान to the कार्यक्रम in 1946 , और तब ब्रैडफोर्ड C. snell , an anti-trust attorney लिये the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट जिनकी विवादास्पद 1974  testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national awareness .
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate destruction  of streetcars थी भाग of a larger रणनीति to धक्का the संयुक्त राज्य into  automobile dependency .
Others say that independent economic factors brought about changes in the transit  प्रणाली , सहित the ग्रेट अवसाद , the पब्लिक यूटिलिटी पकड़कर कम्पनी अधिनियम of 1935 , मजदूर अशांति , मार्केट शक्तियां , rapidly increasing ट्रैफ़िक जमघट , शहरी sprawl , कराधान नीतियों कि favored निजी गाडी स्वामित्व , और सामान्य  enthusiasm for the automobile .
One writer on the subject has suggested that Snell and others fell into  simplistic षड्यंत्र सिद्धान्त सोच , bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` clearly , gm waged a युद्ध  on electric traction .
It was indeed an  सब आउट उत्पीड़न , लकिन by no अर्थात् the सिंगल कारण  for the failure of rapid transit .
Also , it is just as clear that actions and inactions by government contributed  significantly to the विलोपन of इलेक्ट्रिक  traction . ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving  प्रभावी rail-based शहरी हस्तांतरण प्रणालियों आधारित on streetcars or trams , सहित न्यूर्क , फिलाडेल्फिया , सैन फ्रांसिस्को  , Pittsburgh , and Boston ; others are re-introducing them .
The story has  महरूम छान अनेक टाइम्स in छपाई , फिल्मी और अन्य मीडिया , notably  in Who Framed Roger Rabbit , Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia .
Corwin House , Salem ,  मैसाचुसेट्स , निर्मित ca . 1660 , पहला काल अंग्रेज़ी
American colonial architecture  शामिल अनेक भवन डिज़ाइन शैलियाँ संबद्ध साथ the औपनिवेशिक काल of the संयुक्त राज्य , सहित पहला काल अंग्रेज़ी ( late-medieval ) , फ्रेंच  Colonial , Spanish Colonial , Dutch Colonial and Georgian .
These styles are associated with the houses ,  चर्च और सरकारी इमारतें of the काल इससे परिचय 1600 through  the 19th century .
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era  # 1 hit अंकित by अमरीकी bandleader ग्लेन  Miller .
It topped the charts in 1940  in the u.S. और एक साल बाद थी प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म  Sun Valley Serenade .
In 1999 , National Public Radio (  npr ) शामिल the 1939 ग्लेन मिलर रिकॉर्डिंग on आरसीए bluebird on the npr 100 , the सूची of ``  The 100 most important American musical works of the 20th century '' .
वरुण लोगो
The NEPTUNE  कनाडा प्रोजेक्ट is the world’s पहला regional-scale भाटे समंदर वेधशाला  that plugs directly into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed people to `` surf '' the  seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों चलाएं deep-water प्रयोग इससे लैब्स और विश्वविद्यालयों around  the world .
साथ साथ इसके सिस्टर प्रोजेक्ट , शुक्र , वरुण  offers a unique approach to ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to  carry आउट उनके शोध , जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग a remotely संचालित  crawler .
A gramophone record , commonly  ज्ञात as a फोनोग्राफ रिकार्ड ( in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी ) , विनाइल रिकार्ड ( in सन्दर्भ to विनाइल , the सामग्री  most commonly used after about 1950 ) , or colloquially , `` a record '' , is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed , modulated spiral groove .
The groove usually  starts निकट the periphery और ends निकट  the center of the disc .
Phonograph  रिकॉर्ड हैं generally वर्णित by उनके व्यास in इंच ( 12-inch , 10-inch , 7-inch , इत्यादि . ) , the rotational गति at जिससे वे हैं निभाई ( `` 33 आरपीएम `` , `` 78 '' , `` 45 '' , इत्यादि . ) , उनके समय क्षमता ( `` long playing '' ) , उनके reproductive  accuracy , or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '' , `` Orthophonic '' , `` full-range '' , etc . ) , and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono `` , `` stereo `` , `` quadraphonic `` , etc . ) .
Phonograph records were the primary medium used  लिये म्यूज़िक जनन लिये सबसे of the 20th सदी , replacing the फोनोग्राफ बेलन  , with which it had co-existed , by the 1920s .
By the late 1980s ,  डिजिटल मीडिया था gained a larger मार्केट share , और the विनाइल रिकार्ड  left the mainstream in 1991 .
They continue to be  manufactured और बेची in the 21st  century .
In 2008 , nearly 2.9 million units shipped ,  the सबसे in कोई साल चूंकि 1998 और the स्वरूप रै जारी to धीरे regain लोकप्रियता  .
They are especially used by  djs और audiophiles लिये  many types of music .
As  of 2013 , विनाइल रिकॉर्ड continue to be प्रयुक्त  for distribution .
घासभूमि in the सांता रोजा  Plateau , California .
घासभूमि in the antelope घाटी ,  California
The Konza  tallgrass प्रेयरी in the चकमक पहाड़ियाँ of northeastern  Kansas .
A grassland  in the फिलीपीन  .
An Inner Mongolian  घासभूमि in the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of  China
Grasslands are areas  जहाँ the वनस्पति is वर्चस्व by grasses ( पोएसी ) , however  sedge ( Cyperaceae ) and rush ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found .
grasslands occur naturally on सब महाद्वीपों  except Antarctica .
In temperate latitudes , such as  northwestern यूरोपीय और the ग्रेट मैदान और कैलिफ़ोर्निया in उत्तर अमेरिका , देशी grasslands हैं वर्चस्व by बारहमासी गुच्छा ग्रास प्रजाति , whereas in warmer climates सालाना  species form a greater component of the vegetation .
grasslands हैं मिला in सबसे ecoregions  of the Earth .
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications  ( subdivisions ) of the शीतोष्ण grasslands , savannas , और shrublands बायोम ( ' ecosystem ' ) , जिससे is एक of आठ स्थलीय ecozones  of the Earth 's surface .
हिना ( lawsonia inermis , भी पुकारा हिना पेड़ ) or हिना is a flowering संयंत्र , the एकमात्र  species in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae .
The  अंग्रेज़ी नाम `` हिना '' आता इससे the अरबी ( ala-lc : ḥinnāʾ / सुनाया  ) or colloquially , loosely pronounced .
The name is also used for dye preparations derived from  the संयंत्र , और लिये the आर्ट of अस्थाई गोदना आधारित on those  dyes .
Henna has been used since  प्राचीनता to डाई स्किन , बाल , और fingernails , as खूब as fabrics सहित  Silk , wool and leather .
Additionally , the name is misused for other skin and hair dyes ,  ऐसे as ब्लैक हिना or न्यूट्रल हिना , जिससे हैं नहीं निकला इससे  the plant .
A thin film is a layer of  सामग्री ranging इससे भिन्नों of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to अनेक  micrometers in thickness .
इलेक्ट्रॉनिक सेमीकंडक्टर डिवाइस और ऑप्टिकल coatings हैं the प्रमुख अनुप्रयोग  benefiting from thin-film construction .
A familiar application of thin films is the  household दर्पण , जिससे typically रै a पतला मेटल कोटिंग on the वापस of  a sheet of glass to form a reflective interface .
the प्रक्रम of silvering थी  once commonly used to produce mirrors .
A very-thin-film coating  ( कम than a nanometer मोटा ) is प्रयुक्त to उपज two-way mirrors  .
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g .  antireflective , or ar , coatings ) हैं typically उन्नत जब the thin-film कोटिंग consists of अनेक परतों having  varying thicknesses and refractive indices .
Similarly , a periodic structure of alternating thin films  of अलग सामग्री may collectively रूप a so-called superlattice  which exploits the phenomenon of quantum confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions .
Work is being done with ferromagnetic and  ferroelectric पतला films लिये उपयोग as कंप्यूटर मेमोरी  .
It is  भी होने लागू to दवाएँ  , via thin-film drug delivery .
Thin-films  हैं प्रयुक्त to उपज thin-film  batteries .
Thin films are  भी प्रयुक्त in dye-sensitized  solar cells .
सिरेमिक पतला films हैं in चौड़ी  use .
The relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic materials make this type of thin coating of interest  लिये सुरक्षा of substrate सामग्री विरूद्ध संक्षारण ,  oxidation and wear .
In particular , the use of such coatings on  कटिंग टूल्स can extend the जीवन of ये वस्तुएं by अनेक आदेश  of magnitude .
Research is being done on a new class of thin-film  अकार्बनिक ऑक्साइड सामग्री , पुकारा amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent आक्साइड , जिससे could be प्रयुक्त to मेक पारदर्शी  transistors that are inexpensive , stable , and environmentally benign .
Gears of War is a military  विज्ञान fiction third-person शूटर वीडियो खेल विकसित  by Epic Games and published by Microsoft Game Studios .
It was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North  अमेरिका , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , और सबसे of यूरोपीय और शामिल a `` सीमित कलेक्टर 's संस्करण '' साथ added सामग्री और an आर्ट किताब titled नष्ट सौंदर्य  that detailed much of the game 's back-story .
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity , a Microsoft Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with People Can Fly and released a year  बाद , featuring नई सामग्री सहित अतिरिक्त अभियान स्तर , a नई एकाधिक खेल विधि , और खेल  for Windows Live functionality .
The game  focuses on the सैनिकों of डेल्टा स्क्वाड as वे wield a हताश , last-ditch attempt to सहेजें the बाकी इंसान निवासियों  of the fictional planet Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde .
The player assumes the role of  मार्कस fenix ( लकिन can भी खेल as डोमिनिक सैंटियागो ) , a  former prisoner and war-hardened soldier .
The game is  आधारित on the उपयोग of कवर और रणनीतिक आग लिये the खिलाड़ी to अग्रिम through the scenarios ; a दूसरी  player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist .
The  खेल भी सुविधाएँ अनेक ऑनलाइन एकाधिक  game modes for up to eight players .
Gears of War sold over three million copies  in बस टेन सप्ताह और थी the fastest-selling वीडियो खेल of 2005 as खूब as  the second-most played game over Xbox Live during .
It currently  स्टैंड as the 5th बेहतरीन selling एक्सबॉक्स  360 game of all time .
The game has since  बेची over पाँच लाख नक़ल by सितंबर 2008  .
The game was  खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों , जो praised इसके gameplay और विस्तृत visuals ,  and it won several `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006 .
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War franchise , including the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and its follow-up , Gears of War 3 ,  जिससे थी released on सितंबर 20 , 2011 , बाद having initially महरूम नियत to have महरूम released on अप्रैल 5 , 2011 , the तिथि upon जिससे एपिक खेल ' चट्टान bleszinski  was a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon .
adaptations to किताबे , कॉमिक्स ,  as well as a feature film are to be expected .
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is a 1943  अनोखा लिखा by बेट्टी स्मिथ  .
The story  focuses on an irish-american परिवार in williamsburg , ब्रुकलीन ,  New York City .
The  अनोखा is नियत in the पहला और दूसरी दशकों  of the 20th century .
The  किताब थी an immense कामयाबी  .
The main  रूपक of the किताब is the हार्डी पेड़ of स्वर्ग , देशी to चीन और ताईवान , अभी माना हृदयरोग  , and common in the vacant lots of New York City .
संसार मैप साथ the intertropical  zone highlighted in red .
Tropical climate zones of the  धरती जहाँ सब बारह महीने have औसत temperatures  above 18 °C ( 64 °F ) .
The  ऊष्णकटिबन्ध is a प्रदेश of the धरती  surrounding the Equator .
It  is सीमित in अक्षांश by the tropic of कर्कट in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध at लगभग n और the  Tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth .
The tropics are  भी referred to as the तीव्र मण्डल और the torrid  zone ( see geographical zone ) .
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth where the Sun  पहुँच a पाइंट सीधे ओवरहेड at तनिक एकबार दौरान  the solar year .
The  ऊष्णकटिबन्ध हैं विशिष्ट इससे the अन्य climatic और biomatic regions of धरती , the  middle latitudes and the polar regions on either side of the equatorial zone .
For the INXS song , see  कया तुम need ( सोंग )  .
`` What You Need '' is an episode  of the अमरीकी टेलीविज़न anthology  series The Twilight Zone .
It is based on the  छोटी स्टोरी of the वही नाम by लुईस padgett ( हेनरी kuttner  and C. L. Moore ) .
PlayhouseSquare , in the  क्लीवलैंड थिएटर ज़िला in शहर क्लीवलैंड , ओहियो , is the  second-largest theater complex in the United States , second only to New York City 's Lincoln Center ) .
Constructed in a span of 19  महीने in the जल्दी 1920s , the थिएटर यहूद subsequently बंद bas , लकिन यहूद  revived through a grassroots effort .
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new era  of शहर पुनरोद्धार in क्लीवलैंड , और थी पुकारा `` एक of the शीर्ष टेन सफलताओं  in Cleveland history . ''
The driver and passenger  सामने airbags , बाद having महरूम तैनात , in a अंग्रेजों  Peugeot 306 car .
An  एयरबैग is a गाडी सुरक्षा  device .
It is an occupant  संयम प्रणाली consisting of a लचीली कपड़ा लिफाफा or cushion designed to inflate  rapidly during an automobile collision .
इसके purpose is to cushion occupants दौरान a क्रैश और provide सुरक्षा  to their bodies when they strike interior objects such as the steering wheel or a window .
आधुनिक वाहनों may contain अनेक एयरबैग मौड्यूल in विभिन्न पक्ष और frontal स्थितियाँ of the यात्री seating स्थितियाँ , और सेंसर may तैनात एक or अधिक  airbags in an impact zone at variable rates based on the type , angle and severity of impact ; the airbag is designed to only inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes .
Airbags are normally designed with the intention of supplementing  the सुरक्षा of an occupant जो is correctly restrained  with a seatbelt .
सबसे डिजाइन हैं inflated through pyrotechnic  means and can only be operated once .
Newer side-impact airbag modules consist of  संपीडित एयर सिलेंडर कि हैं triggered in the इवेंट of a पक्ष प्रभाव गाडी प्रभाव  .
The first commercial designs were  introduced in यात्री ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान the 1970s साथ  limited success .
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during the late 1980s and early 1990s with a  ड्राइवर एयरबैग , और a सामने यात्री एयरबैग as खूब on कुछ गाड़ियाँ ; और अनेक आधुनिक  vehicles now include four or more units .
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to  रपट वित्तीय सूचना to the आतंरिक आय सेवा ( irs ) of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
They are used to report income , calculate  कर to be सशुल्क to the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य , और ज़ाहिर अन्य सूचना  as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ) .
There are over 800 various  फ़ॉर्म और schedules .
the best-known of ये is रूप 1040  used by individuals .
In the United States , driver 's licenses are  जारी by प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत राज्य ( सहित वॉशिंगटन , d.C. और territories  ) , rather than the federal government because of the political concept of federalism .
ड्राइवर हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी to obtain a अनुज्ञा इससे उनके राज्य of निवास और सब राज्य recognize प्रत्येक अन्य 's पंक्तियां  for temporary visitors subject to normal age requirements .
A  राज्य may भी बर्खास्तगी an व्यक्तिगत 's ड्राइविंग विशेषाधिकार  within its borders for traffic violations .
Many states share a common system of license classes ,  साथ कुछ अपवाद , और वाणिज्यिक अनुज्ञा वर्ग हैं मानकीकृत  by federal regulation at 49 CFR part 383 .
China has been  the सोर्स of अनेक आविष्कारों , सहित the चार ग्रेट आविष्कारों  : papermaking , the compass , gunpowder , and printing ( both woodblock and movable type ) .
The  सूची नीचे contains ये और अन्य  inventions .
The Chinese  invented technologies involving यांत्रिकी , hydraulics , और गणित लागू to  horology , metallurgy , astronomy , agriculture , engineering , music theory , craftsmanship , nautics , and warfare .
By  the युद्धरत राज्य काल ( 403–221 bc ) , वे था उन्नत metallurgic प्रौद्योगिकी , सहित the धमाका भट्टी और cupola भट्टी  , while the finery forge and puddling process were known by the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ) .
A sophisticated economic  प्रणाली in चीन दिया जनम to आविष्कारों ऐसे as पेपर धन दौरान the सोंग राजवंश  ( 960–1279 ) .
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an  सरणी of आविष्कारों ऐसे as the आग तलवार , जमीन मेरा , नवल मेरा , हाथ तोपों , exploding गोलों , multistage प्रक्षेपास्त्र , और प्रक्षेपास्त्र बम साथ  aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads .
With the navigational aid of the  11th-century कम्पास और क्षमता to steer at ऊँची समुद्र साथ the 1st-century sternpost अरित्र , premodern चाइनीज  sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt .
In water-powered clockworks , the premodern Chinese had used the escapement  यांत्रिकी चूंकि the 8th सदी और the अंतहीन power-transmitting कड़ी ड्राइव in the 11th सदी  .
They also made large mechanical puppet theaters driven by  waterwheels और carriage पहियों और wine-serving automatons चलित by चप्पू  wheel boats .
The  contemporaneous peiligang और pengtoushan संस्कृतियों represent the oldest पाषाणकालीन संस्कृतियों of  China and were formed around 7000 BC .
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic , prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives , stone hoes and spades , the cultivation of millet ,  राइस और the सोयाबीन , the refinement of sericulture , the भवन of rammed धरती structures साथ लाइम -plastered हाउस floors , the सृष्टि of the कुम्हार 's व्हील , the सृष्टि of pottery साथ cord-mat-basket डिजाइन , the सृष्टि of pottery tripods और pottery steamers , और the विकास  of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination .
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c . 2000 BC ) period , the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops , full  प्रमाण of longshan cultivation of dry-land खाद्यान्न फसलों जिससे दिया ऊँची yields `` तभी जब the मृदा थी carefully cultivated , '' सुझाएँ कि the हल थी ज्ञात at तनिक by the longshan संस्कृति काल और explains the ऊँची agricultural  production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c . 1050 BC ) .
With later inventions such as the multiple-tube seed drill and heavy moldboard iron plow  , चीन 's agricultural आउटपुट could sustain a much larger जनसांख्यिकी  .
For the purposes of this list , inventions are  regarded as technological firsts विकसित in चीन , और as ऐसे करता नहीं शामिल विदेशी technologies जिससे the चाइनीज acquired through सम्पर्क ,  such as the windmill from the Middle East or the telescope from Early modern Europe .
It also does not include technologies developed elsewhere  और बाद invented separately by the चाइनीज , ऐसे as the ओडोमीटर  and chain pump .
Scientific , mathematic or natural  discoveries , परिवर्तन in नाबालिग अवधारणाओं of डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल और कलाकारी नवप्रवर्तनों can नहीं be regarded as आविष्कारों  and do not appear on the list .
Gross domestic product in 2011 US dollars per capita , adjusted for  महंगाई और खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी ( log स्केल ) इससे 1860 to 2011 , साथ जनसांख्यिकी ( डिस्क  area ) for the US ( yellow ) , UK ( orange ) , Japan ( red ) , China ( red ) , and India ( blue ) .
Globalization ( or  globalisation—see स्पेलिंग मतभेद ) is the प्रक्रम of अंतरराष्ट्रीय संयोजन arising इससे the इंटरचेंज of संसार  views , products , ideas , and other aspects of culture .
Put in simple terms  , वैश्वीकरण refers to प्रक्रियाओं कि प्रचार world-wide exchanges of नेशनल  and cultural resources .
Advances in transportation  और दूरसंचार अवसंरचना , सहित the वृद्धि of the अंतरजाल , हैं प्रमुख कारकों in वैश्वीकरण , generating further interdependence  of economic and cultural activities .
Though several scholars place the origins of globalization in modern times , others  ट्रेस इसके इतिहास long पहले the यूरोपीय आयु of डिस्कवरी और voyages to the  New World .
Some even trace the  origins to the तीसरा मिलेनियम  BCE .
Since the beginning of the 20th century , the pace of globalization has  intensified at a रैपिड रेट , विशेषकर दौरान the पोस्ट ठंडा युद्ध  era .
The term  वैश्वीकरण रै महरूम in increasing उपयोग चूंकि the mid-1980s और विशेषकर  since the mid-1990s .
In 2000 , the International Monetary Fund  ( imf ) पहचाना चार मौलिक पहलुओं of वैश्वीकरण : व्यापार और ट्रांजेक्शन , पूंजी और निवेश आंदोलनों ,  migration and movement of people and the dissemination of knowledge .
Further ,  पर्यावरणीय चुनौतियां ऐसे as जलवायु बदलें , cross-boundary जल और एयर प्रदूषण , और over-fishing of the समंदर  are linked with globalization .
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by  कारोबार और कार्य संगठन , अर्थशास्त्र , socio-cultural संसाधन ,  and the natural environment .
The Replacements is a 2000  अमरीकी खेल कॉमेडी फिल्मी निर्देशित by हावर्ड  Deutch .
It stars Keanu  रीव्स , जीन hackman , और ब्रुक langton  .
An American  एयरलाइंस वायुयान takes बंद इससे dallas/fort लायक  International Airport .
This  विमानक्षेत्र is the एयरलाइन  's largest hub .
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic  गंतव्यों और 78 अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्यों in 48 देशों  .
( as of  दिसम्बर 2012 )
The list includes the city , country , the codes of the International Air Transport Association ( IATA airport  कोड ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सिविल विमानन संगठन ( icao विमानक्षेत्र कोड ) , और the विमानक्षेत्र 's नाम , साथ the एयरलाइन 's hubs , फ़ोकस शहरों  and seasonal destinations marked .
The list also contains  गंतव्यों no longer परोसा by the एयरलाइन , जिससे हैं  marked as terminated destinations .
It  करता नहीं शामिल गंतव्यों परोसा लिये अमरीकी एयरलाइंस by इसके क्षेत्रीय affiliates  American Eagle Airlines , Executive Airlines , and AmericanConnection .
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a  परंपरागत jamaican mento लोक सोंग , the best-known संस्करण of जिससे थी सुंग by हैरी belafonte और an वैकल्पिक संस्करण interspersed साथ another  Jamaican folksong , Hill and Gully Rider , by Dame Shirley Bassey .
Despite the song 's  mento प्रभाव , `` day-o ( the banana नाव सोंग )  '' is widely known as an example of calypso music .
it is a कार्य सोंग , इससे the पाइंट of दृश्य of डॉक मजदूर working  the night shift loading bananas onto ships .
Daylight has come , the shift is over and they want  उनके कार्य to be गिने up so कि वे can go  home .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war  केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक  11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or  the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939 ,  and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the  संसार 's ग्रेट शक्तियां , जिससे यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी , austria-hungary और इटली  ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both  reorganised और विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और the उस्मानी  Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
ultimately , अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों , सहित 60 लाख europeans , यहूद mobilised  in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed ,  largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality  of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict  in संसार इतिहास , subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन , ऐसे as revolutions  in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of  the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the  great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav  राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम of  Serbia .
Several  alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों यहूद invoked  .
Within weeks , the major  शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार  .
On  28 जुलाई , the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of  the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing  a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध  Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a  halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ  a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was  कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians , लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण of ईस्ट  Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war ,  खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस , मेसोपोटामिया और  the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went  to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया  in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in  कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर brought the russians to शर्तें  with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the  पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी  forces began entering the trenches .
Germany  , जिससे था इसके अपना ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत to an  armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in  विजय लिये the allies  .
Events on the home fronts  यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक  resources to fight a total war .
By the end  of the युद्ध , चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी , रूसी , austro-hungarian  and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The  successor राज्य of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory  , while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of  सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक  smaller states .
The League of Nations was  formed in the आशा of preventing another  such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the  परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार युद्ध ii  .
Nurse  जैकी is an अमरीकी श्रेणी कि premiered on जून 8 , 2009 , on showtime  , Movie Central and The Movie Network .
the श्रेणी सितारों edie falco as the शीर्षक अक्षर जैकी peyton , an आपात  department nurse at All Saints ' Hospital in New York City .
For Jackie , `` Every day is a high wire act of juggling patients ,  डॉक्टर , fellow नर्स और उसके अपना indiscretions .  ''
Keeping Up with the  kardashians ( प्रायः referred to बस as the kardashians ) is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता  television series that premiered on October 14 , 2007 , on E ! .
It follows the  जीवनदान of the kardashian/jenner परिवार , सहित बहनों कोर्टनी  , Kim , and Khloé Kardashian .
The series  ' कामयाबी रै led to the spin-offs कोर्टनी और किम लो नई यॉर्क , khloé  & Lamar , Kourtney and Khloé Take Miami , and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
Afghanistan ( ; ; ) ,  officially the इस्लामी गणतंत्र of अफगानिस्तान , is a landlocked sovereign राज्य forming भाग of दक्षिण एशिया , सेंट्रल एशिया  , and to some extent Western Asia .
It has a  जनसांख्यिकी of around 30 लाख inhabiting an  area of approximately , making it the 42nd most populous and 41st largest nation in the world .
It is bordered by Pakistan in the south and  the ईस्ट , इरान in the वेस्ट , तुर्कमेनिस्तान , उज़्बेकिस्तान और ताजिकिस्तान in the  north , and China in the far northeast .
Afghanistan  रै महरूम an प्राचीन फोकल पाइंट of the रेशा सड़क  and human migration .
archaeologists have मिला प्रमाण of इंसान habitation  from as far back as the Middle Paleolithic .
शहरी सभ्यता may have begun in the क्षेत्रफल  as early as 3,000 to 2,000 BCE .
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the Middle  ईस्ट संस्कृति साथ सेंट्रल एशिया और the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप , the जमीन रै महरूम घर to विभिन्न peoples through the आयु और witnessed अनेक सैन्य अभियान , notably by सिकंदर the ग्रेट  , Genghis Khan , and in modern era Western forces .
The land also served as a source from which the  greco-bactrians , kushans , hephthalites , saffarids , ghaznavids , ghorids , khiljis , timurids , मुगलों , durranis , और अन्य have  risen to form major empires .
The political history of the modern state of Afghanistan begins in  1709 , जब the hotaki राजवंश थी स्थापित in कांधार followed by अहमद शाह  Durrani 's rise to power in 1747 .
In the late 19th century ,  अफगानिस्तान became a बफ़र राज्य in the `` ग्रेट खेल `` between  the British and Russian empires .
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War ,  किंग अमानुल्ला began a यूरोपीय स्टाइल modernization of the देश लकिन थी रोका  by the ultra-conservatives .
During the Cold War , after the withdrawal of the British from  neighboring इण्डिया in 1947 , the संयुक्त राज्य और the सोवियत संघ began spreading प्रभाव in अफगानिस्तान , जिससे led to a खूनी युद्ध between the us-backed मुजाहिदीन शक्तियां और the soviet-backed अफगान  government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives .
This was  followed by the 1990s सिविल युद्ध , the वृद्धि और पतन of  the extremist Taliban government and the 2001–present war .
In December 2001 ,  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा परिषद प्राधिकृत the सृष्टि of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा  Assistance Force ( ISAF ) to help maintain security in Afghanistan and assist the Karzai administration .
Three decades of war made Afghanistan  एक of the संसार 's सबसे खतरनाक देशों , सहित the largest  producer of refugees and asylum seekers .
While the international community is  पुनर्निर्माण war-torn अफगानिस्तान , आतंकवादी समूह ऐसे as the हक्कानी संजाल और hezbi islami हैं actively शामिल in a देशभर तालिबान -led  insurgency , which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks .
According to the United Nations , the insurgents were  जिम्मेदार लिये 80 % of civilian हताहत in 2011 और 2012  .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from  1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके secession और formed the confederate राज्य  of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the  एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories  .
Foreign  शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000  सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना , the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल  Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential  चुनाव , republicans , led by अब्राहम lincoln , opposed  expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 ,  1861 , सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed  the Confederacy .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans  rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's  inaugural पता घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate  civil war .
Eight  बाकी स्लेव राज्य जारी  to reject calls for secession .
Confederate  शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed  by the Confederacy .
A Peace  सम्मेलन विफल to ढूँढें a सुलह , और दोनो पहलू  prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on ``  किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate  States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861  , जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों  in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to  provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy  , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon  नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल नाकेबंदी  that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern  थिएटर थी inconclusive in 1861–62  .
The autumn 1862  confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल  of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation ,  जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध  goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy  , तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी नदी  .
In 1863 , Robert  E. ली 's confederate incursion उत्तर  ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
पश्चिमी सफलताओं led to ulysses S. ग्रान्ट कमांड of सब  Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater ,  विलियम T. शरमन drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र , destroying confederate  infrastructure along the way .
the संघ marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through  the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading  to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on  April 9 , 1865 .
The American  सिविल युद्ध थी एक of the earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships  , और mass-produced हथियार यहूद employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories  , खानों , shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed  World War I .
it remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित  750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the  मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी श्वेत  males aged 18–40 .
Cost of goods sold (  cogs ) refer to the inventory लागत of those goods a कारोबार रै  sold during a particular period .
Costs are associated with particular goods using one of  अनेक formulas , सहित विशिष्ट पहचान , first-in first-out ( fifo ) , or औसत लागत  .
Costs include all costs  of खरीदें , लागत of परिवर्तन और अन्य लागत incurred in bringing the inventories  to their present location and condition .
Costs of goods  बना by the कारोबार शामिल सामग्री , मजदूर , और  allocated overhead .
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as  लागत of inventory जबतक the inventory is बेची or लिखा  down in value .
Freak  lunchbox कैंडी स्टोर in  Halifax , Nova Scotia
A  confectionery स्टोर ( अधिक commonly referred to as a मीठी दूकान in the संयुक्त किंगडम , a कैंडी स्टोर in the उत्तर अमेरिका , or a lolly दूकान in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) बिकता confectionery  and is usually targeted to children .
Most confectionery stores  हैं भर साथ an assortment of मिठाई दूर larger than a पंसारी or convenience  store could accommodate .
They often  प्रस्ताव a चयन of बूढ़ा fashioned ट्रीट , और मिठाई इससे  different countries .
Very often unchanged in layout since their  inception , confectioneries हैं ज्ञात लिये उनके वार्मिंग और उदासीन  feel .
The village of Pateley Bridge claims to have the  oldest confectionery  store in England .
The  oldest मीठी दूकान in इंग्लैण्ड ,  in the village of Pateley Bridge
ओक्लाहोमा ( ) ( pawnee : uukuhuúwa , cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य  located in West South Central United States .
Oklahoma  is the 20th सबसे extensive और the 28th सबसे populous  of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is derived from  the choctaw शब्द okla और humma , अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '' , और it is ज्ञात  informally by its nickname , The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian  territory on नवम्बर 16 , 1907 , ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th राज्य to डालें the  union .
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or , informally `` Okies '' ,  और इसके पूंजी और largest नगर is ओक्लाहोमा नगर  .
A major producer of natural gas , oil , and  कृषि , ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक आधार of विमानन , उर्जा  , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the  स्वदेश , रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita आय विकास और सकल घरेलू  product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors , with  nearly दो तिहाई of oklahomans जीना भीतर उनके महानगर सांख्यिकीय  areas .
With small  पहाड़ सीमाएँ , प्रेयरी , mesas , और पूर्वी वनों , सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s . आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a प्रदेश विशेषकर  prone to severe weather .
In addition  to having a व्यापकता of अंग्रेज़ी , जर्मनी , स्कॉटिश , आयरिश  and Native American ancestry , more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and  historically परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव , a गंतव्य लिये दक्षिणी settlers , और a government-sanctioned  territory for Native Americans .
stacked और खड़ा  car tires
A  टायर ( or टायर ) is a ring-shaped covering कि fits around a  wheel 's rim to protect it and enable better vehicle performance .
Most tires  , ऐसे as those लिये ऑटोमोबाइल और साइकिल , provide कर्षण between the गाडी और  the road while providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock .
The  सामग्री of आधुनिक न्यूमेटिक टायर हैं सिंथेटिक रबर , प्राकृतिक रबर  , fabric and wire , along with carbon black and other chemical compounds .
वे consist of a tread  and a body .
The tread provides  कर्षण जबकि the देह provides containment लिये a मात्रा of संपीडित एयर  .
Before rubber was developed , the first  संस्करण of टायर यहूद बस bands of मेटल कि fitted around लकड़ी पहियों to prevent पहनें और  tear .
Early rubber  टायर यहूद ठोस ( नहीं न्यूमेटिक  ) .
Today , the majority of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures , comprising  a doughnut-shaped देह of रस्सियाँ और wires encased in रबर और generally भर साथ संपीडित एयर to रूप an inflatable  cushion .
Pneumatic tires are used on many  प्रकार of वाहनों , सहित गाड़ियाँ , साइकिल , मोटरसाइकिल , ट्रक  , earthmovers , and aircraft .
मेटल टायर हैं स्टिल प्रयुक्त on इंजनों और railcars , और ठोस रबर ( or अन्य पॉलिमर  ) tires are still used in various non-automotive applications , such as some casters , carts , lawnmowers , and wheelbarrows .
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11 , 1741 – June 17 , 1775 ) was an American doctor who played a leading role in American Patriot organizations  in बोस्टन in जल्दी दिनों of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति , आखिरकार सेवारत as अध्यक्ष of the क्रांतिकारी मैसाचुसेट्स प्रांतीय कॉंग्रेस  .
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on April 18 , 1775 , to leave Boston and spread the alarm that the British garrison in  बोस्टन थी सेटिंग आउट to रेड the कस्बा of concord और गिरफ़्तार विद्रोही नेताओ जॉन hancock और  Samuel Adams .
Warren participated in the next day 's Battles of Lexington and Concord  , जिससे हैं commonly माना to be the खोलने engagements of the अमरीकी  Revolutionary War .
Warren had been commissioned a  प्रमुख सामान्य in the उपनिवेश 's मिलिशिया shortly पहले the  June 17 , 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill .
Rather than exercising his rank  , वारेन परोसा in the बैटल as a निजी सिपाही , और थी मारे in कॉम्बैट जब  British troops stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's Hill .
His death , immortalized in John Trumbull 's painting , The Death of General Warren at the  बैटल of बंकर 's हिल , जून 17 , 1775 , जस्ती the विद्रोही शक्तियां , और he रै महरूम स्मरणीय  in many place names in the United States .
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular chains of the  सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर quinacridone on ग्रेफाइट  .
An organic  सेमीकंडक्टर is an सशुल्क सामग्री साथ सेमीकंडक्टर गुण , कि is , साथ  an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals .
Single molecules ,  छोटी कड़ी ( oligomers ) और सशुल्क polymers can be semiconductive  .
semiconducting छोटी अणुओं ( खुशबूदार hydrocarbons ) शामिल the  polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene , anthracene , and rubrene .
polymeric सशुल्क semiconductors शामिल बहु ( 3-hexylthiophene  ) , poly ( p-phenylene vinylene ) , as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives .
वहीँ हैं दो प्रमुख अतिव्यापी  classes of organic semiconductors .
These are organic  charge-transfer देवालय और विभिन्न linear-backbone conductive polymers निकला  from polyacetylene .
Linear backbone organic semiconductors include  polyacetylene itself और इसके डेरिवेटिव polypyrrole , और polyaniline .
At  तनिक locally , charge-transfer देवालय प्रायः प्रदर्शनी  similar conduction mechanisms to inorganic semiconductors .
ऐसे mechanisms उठता इससे the उपस्थिति of छेद और इलेक्ट्रॉन  conduction layers separated by a band gap .
While such classic mechanisms are important  locally , as साथ अकार्बनिक amorphous semiconductors , tunnelling , स्थानीयकृत राज्य , गतिशीलता गैप , और phonon -assisted hopping  also significantly contribute to conduction , particularly in polyacetylenes .
Like inorganic  semiconductors , सशुल्क semiconductors  can be doped .
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping such as  polyaniline ( ormecon ) और हैं भी ज्ञात as सशुल्क धातुओं  .
Typical current  वाहक in सशुल्क semiconductors हैं छेद और electrons  in π-bonds .
Almost all  सशुल्क solids हैं insulators  .
But when their constituent molecules have π-conjugate systems ,  electrons can मूव via π-electron बादल overlaps , विशेषकर by hopping , tunnelling और सम्बन्धित mechanisms  .
Polycyclic  खुशबूदार hydrocarbons और phthalocyanine नमक crystals हैं उदाहरण of  this type of organic semiconductor .
मुख्यतः due to कम गतिशीलता , भी unpaired electrons  may be stable in charge-transfer complexes .
ऐसे unpaired electrons can फलन  as current carriers .
This type of semiconductor is also  प्राप्त by pairing an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता अणु साथ an इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor  molecule .
Female  स्खलन is the expulsion of द्रव by इंसान महिलाओं इससे the paraurethral नलिकाएं through  and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm .
It is  भी ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting , हालांकि ये हैं माना to be अलग  phenomena in some research publications .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical  पेशेवर , जिससे is भी सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the अस्तित्व of the g-spot  .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international association football competition  लडे by the वरिष्ठ महिलाओं 's नेशनल टीमों of the सदस्यों of fédération internationale  de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every  चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट  in 1991 .
Japan won the  2011 टूर्नामेंट in a दंड गोलीबारी  .
The current format of the tournament  involves 16 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of परिचय तीन सप्ताह  ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to determine which  टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ साथ the मेजबान स्वदेश  ( s ) .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिता in महिलाओं 's फ़ुटबॉल और is निभाई amongst महिलाओं 's नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल टीमों of the सदस्य  states of FIFA , the sport 's global governing body .
The first  महिलाओं 's संसार कप टूर्नामेंट , नामित the महिलाओं 's संसार चैंपियनशिप , थी आयोजित in 1991  , sixty-one years after the men 's first FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930 .
The  छह संसार कप tournaments have महरूम जीती by चार अलग  national teams .
The  अगला संसार कप होगा be hosted  by Canada in 2015 .
Scorpions is a young adult novel  लिखा by वाल्टर डीन मायर्स , पहला प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य by हार्पर  & Row on June 20 , 1988 .
Front page  of a 17th सदी यहूदी बाइबल by जोसेफ athias , अभी at  Beth Hatefutsoth , Israel
'Son  of man ' is the अनुवाद of विभिन्न यहूदी और यूनानी वाक्यांश  used in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament .
It has diverse meanings , ranging from a normal  इंसान होने to a prophesied अनन्त  , divine ruler .
The Hebrew expression `` son of  man '' ( בן–אדם i.e . ben-'adam ) appears एक सौ और सात टाइम्स  in the Hebrew Bible .
This is the most common Hebrew  निर्माण लिये the एकवचन लकिन is प्रयुक्त ज़्यादातर in ezekiel ( 93 टाइम्स  ) and 14 times elsewhere .
In thirty two  मामले the phrase appears in इंटरमीडिएट बहुवचन  form `` sons of men '' , i.e . human beings .
As generally interpreted by  यहूदियों , it denotes humankind generally  .
In the Koine Greek of the  नई वसीयत , `` the बेटे of man '' is invariably प्रयुक्त as ``  ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article .
The use of the definite article in `` the son of man  '' in the ईसाई gospels is अनोखा , और पहले इसके उपयोग वहीँ , no रिकॉर्ड of इसके उपयोग in कोई of the surviving  Greek documents of antiquity exist .
Geza Vermes has  stated कि `` the बेटे of man '' in the ईसाई gospels is unrelated to  Hebrew Bible usages .
In Christian usage , unlike the Son of God title , which has been an essential element of Christian creeds since  the अपोस्टोलिक आयु , the उदघोषणा of `` यीशु as the बेटे of man '' रै never महरूम an आलेख of आस्था in  Christianity .
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man  '' in the नई वसीयत रै remained चुनौतीपूर्ण और बाद 150 सालो of  debate no consensus on the issue has emerged among scholars .
Master of  foxhounds लीड the फ़ील्ड इससे powderham किला in देवों , इंग्लैण्ड , साथ  the hounds in front .
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking , chase , and sometimes killing of a fox , traditionally a red fox , by  प्रशिक्षित foxhounds or अन्य सैंट hounds , और a समूह of निहत्थे अनुसरणकर्ता led by a निपुण of foxhounds , जो follow the hounds on पैर or on horseback  .
Fox hunting originated in the form practised until recently in the United Kingdom in the 16th  सदी , लकिन is practised सब over the संसार , सहित in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , कनाडा  , France , Ireland , Italy and the United States .
In Australia , the term  भी refers to the शिकार of foxes साथ firearms समान to spotlighting or हिरण शिकार  .
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game  पशु or हथियार ( e.g. , हिरण शिकार साथ धनुष और तीर ) ; in ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड , `` शिकार '' बगैर योग्यता implies फॉक्स शिकार ( or अन्य फ़ॉर्म of शिकार  with hounds- beagling , stag hunting , mink hunting , drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here .
The sport is  विवादास्पद , विशेषकर in the uk , जहाँ it थी बैन in स्कॉटलैंड in 2002 , और in इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स  in November 2004 ( law enforced from February 2005 ) , though shooting foxes as vermin remained legal .
Proponents of  फॉक्स शिकार दृश्य it as an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of ग्रामीण संस्कृति और उपयोगी लिये कारण of संरक्षण और pest कंट्रोल  , while opponents argue that it is cruel and unnecessary .
Tobacco advertising is the  विज्ञापन of तम्बाकू उत्पाद or उपयोग ( typically सिगरेट धूम्रपान ) by the तम्बाकू उद्योग  through a variety of media including sponsorship , particularly of sporting events .
It  is अभी एक of the सबसे अत्यधिक  regulated forms of marketing .
Some or  सब फ़ॉर्म of तम्बाकू विज्ञापन हैं बैन  in many countries .
Bally Technologies ,  inc. is a निर्माता of स्लॉट मशीने और अन्य गेमिंग प्रौद्योगिकी आधारित  in Las Vegas , Nevada .
the कम्पनी थी संस्थापित in 1968 as  Advanced Patent Technology .
It eventually changed its name to Alliance Gaming and acquired , in 1996 , Bally  गेमिंग अंतरराष्ट्रीय , a पूर्व प्रभाग of बल्ली निर्माण  .
In 2006 , the entire company adopted the  बल्ली नाम , a ट्रेडमार्क कि originated in 1932 by the बल्ली निर्माण  Corporation .
Gustave Doré 's engravings  illustrated the दैवी कॉमेडी ( 1861–1868 ) ; यहाँ , दांते is खोया  in Canto 1 of the Inferno .
inferno ( इतालवी लिये `` नरक `` ) is the पहला भाग of दांते एलीगियरी  's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy .
It is  followed by purgatorio और paradiso  .
It is an  allegory telling of the यात्रा of दांते  through Hell , guided by the Roman poet Virgil .
In the poem , Hell is  चित्रित as नौ वृत्त of कष्ट स्तिथ  within the Earth .
Allegorically , the Divine Comedy represents the journey of the soul  towards परमेश्वर , साथ the inferno describing the मान्यता और अस्वीकृति  of sin .
Smirnoff is  a ब्रांड of वोदका स्वामित्व और उत्पादित by the  British company Diageo .
The Smirnoff brand began with a vodka  डिस्टिलरी संस्थापित in मास्को by pyotr arsenievich smirnov ( 1831–1898  ) .
it is अभी वितरित  in 130 countries .
It is produced in several countries  सहित इण्डिया , आयरलैंड , इटली , the संयुक्त किंगडम और  the United States .
Smirnoff products  शामिल वोदका , flavoured वोदका , और malt पेय  .
In March 2006 ,  diageo उत्तर अमेरिका claimed कि स्मरनॉफ  vodka was the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the world .
Big Brown ( foaled April 10 , 2005  in केंटकी ) is a रिटायर्ड चैंपियन अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse और विजेता of the 2008  Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes .
Bred by Dr. Gary B.  नैप 's monticule खेतो in lexington , केंटकी , he  won his first five race starts .
He was sired by Grade III winner  boundary , a बेटे of उत्तर अमरीकी चैंपियन sire danzig , a बेटे of उत्तरी  Dancer .
Big Brown 's dam was  mien , भी a पोती of उत्तरी नर्तकी through उसके sire  , Nureyev .
The Serenity Prayer is the common name for an originally  बेनाम दुआ by the अमरीकी theologian reinhold niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ) .
It has been adopted by Alcoholics  बेनाम और अन्य twelve-step  programs .
The best-known form is : God , grant me the  serenity to accept the बाते i can नहीं change,
The courage to  बदलें the बाते i  can,
And wisdom  to जान the अंतर  .
The Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial Rights , or the Declaration of Rights ) , was a  बयान अपनाया by the पहला महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on अक्तूबर 14 , 1774 , in जवाब to the असहनीय अधिनियमों passed  by the British Parliament .
The Declaration outlined colonial  आपत्ति to the असहनीय अधिनियमों , सूचीबद्ध a औपनिवेशिक विधेयक of अधिकारों , और provided a विस्तृत सूची  of grievances .
It was similar to the Declaration of Rights and  grievances , passed by the स्टैम्प अधिनियम कॉंग्रेस a दशक  earlier .
The Declaration concluded with an  रूपरेखा of कॉंग्रेस 's योजनाएँ : to डालें into a बहिष्कार of अंग्रेजों व्यापार ( the महाद्वीपीय संघ ) जबतक उनके grievances  were redressed , to publish addresses to the people of Great Britain and British America , and to send a petition to the King .
Pulse pressure is the pressure that is  लगा जब अहसास the पल्स .
Measured in millimeters of  पारा ( mmhg ) , the दबाव अंतर between the systolic और diastolic pressures  is the pressure change to create the pulse , which is the pulse pressure .
If resting blood pressure is (  systolic/diastolic ) 120/80 millimeters of पारा ( mmhg ) , पल्स दबाव is 40 .
The Hills is a reality  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी जिससे originally aired on एमटीवी इससे may 31 , 2006 जबतक जुलाई  13 , 2010 .
The show uses a reality television format ,  following the निजी जीवनदान of अनेक यंग वयस्कों जीना in लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , but tends towards a narrative format more commonly found in scripted genres such as soap operas .
The  श्रेणी originally followed the निजी जीवन of पूर्व लगुना बीच स्टार लॉरेन कोनराड  and her friends ' new lives in Los Angeles .
After five seasons , Conrad left the series and was replaced by another former Laguna Beach star  , kristin cavallari , शुरूआत in the दूसरी हाफ of the पांचवां  season .
The series  concluded at the समाप्त of the छठे ऋतु  .
Entertainment  साप्ताहिक क्रमित the पहाड़ियाँ 82nd on उनके सूची of `` the 100 बेहतरीन shows of the पिछला 25 सालो , '' stating कि the श्रेणी  was a `` New Classic . ''
एओएल tv पुकारा it tv 's biggest  Guilty Pleasure .
the श्रेणी premiered in अनुप्रयोग in the पतन  of 2009 alongside Laguna Beach : The Real Orange County .
In  पोकर , ख़राब ताल is a subjective पद लिये a हाथ in  which a player with what appear to be strong cards nevertheless loses .
It most often occurs where one  खिलाड़ी bets the clearly stronger हाथ और उनके प्रतिद्वन्दी makes a ग़रीब कॉल कि आखिरकार  `` hits '' and wins .
There is no consensus among poker players as to what exactly  constitutes a ख़राब ताल और प्रायः खिलाड़ी होगा असहमत परिचय whether a particular  hand was a bad beat .
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus  auratus ) is a freshwater मछली in the परिवार cyprinidae  of order Cypriniformes .
it थी एक of the earliest मछली to be domesticated , और is एक of  the most commonly kept aquarium fish .
A relatively small member of the carp  परिवार ( जिससे भी शामिल the कोई कार्प और the crucian कार्प ) , the goldfish  is a domesticated version of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia .
It was first  domesticated in चीन अधिक than a हजार सालो पहले , और अनेक पृथक breeds  have since been developed .
Goldfish breeds  vary greatly in आकार , देह आकार , जोडे विन्यास और coloration ( विभिन्न combinations of श्वेत  , yellow , orange , red , brown , and black are known ) .
uncooked  Rouladen
Rouladen (  or rinderroulade , एकवचन : roulade ) is a जर्मनी मांस roulade प्रायः consisting  of bacon , onions , mustard and pickles wrapped in thinly sliced beef which is then cooked .
In some  देशों , the roulade is भी ज्ञात as `` बीफ  olive '' .
Beef or veal  is प्रयुक्त as मांस हालांकि कुछ खाना विद्वानों tend to मानना कि the असली संस्करण  was probably venison or pork , and pork is still popular in some areas .
The beef  rouladen as we जान उन्हें आज have become लोकप्रिय  over the last century .
The cut  is प्रायः topside बीफ or silverside चूंकि इस is  the cheaper cut .
The more expensive version  होता be the गोलाकार स्टीक , भी ज्ञात as  rump steak .
The  मांस is काटें into विशाल , पतला  slices .
The filling is a  मिश्रण of स्मोक्ड और पकाया पोर्क पेट , कटा प्याज और कटा अचार ( gurken ) जिससे  is at times varied by adding minced meat , sausage meat , pine nuts and mustard .
The  मिश्रण varies इससे प्रदेश  to region .
Rouladen  हैं traditionally परोसा लिये डिनर  .
Red wine is  प्रायः परोसा साथ  this dish .
Typical  eukaryotic कोशिका .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions  और प्रक्रियाओं कि लो प्लेस in the कोशिकाएं of जीवों to बदलें biochemical उर्जा इससे nutrients into एडीनोसिन  triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
the प्रतिक्रियाएँ शामिल in श्वसन हैं catabolic प्रतिक्रियाएँ , जिससे  break large molecules into smaller ones , releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products .
Respiration is one of  the कुंजी तरीके a कोशिका gains उपयोगी उर्जा to  fuel cellular activity .
सेल्यूलर श्वसन is  considered an exothermic redox reaction .
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs  in the देह , सबसे of जिससे हैं रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ themselves  .
Although  technically , सेल्यूलर श्वसन is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया , it clearly करता नहीं  resemble one when it occurs in a living cell .
This  अंतर is क्युकी it occurs in अनेक पृथक  steps .
While  the overall प्रतिक्रिया is a दहन प्रतिक्रिया , no सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया  that comprises it is a combustion reaction .
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and  संयंत्र कोशिकाएं in श्वसन शामिल शुगर , अमीनो acids और वसीय acids , और a  common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ) .
The  उर्जा भंडारित in एटीपी ( इसके तीसरा फास्फेट समूह is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप , thereby  transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes .
देशों by 2011 जीडीपी ( नाममात्र ) according  to the CIA World Factbook .
This  आलेख शामिल a सूची of देशों in the संसार sorted by उनके सकल घरेलू उत्पाद ( जीडीपी ) , the  market value of all final goods and services from a nation in a given year .
The GDP dollar estimates  प्रस्तुत यहाँ हैं गणना at मार्केट or सरकारी  official exchange rates .
Several economies which are not considered to be countries ( world , the  eu , और कुछ निर्भर territories ) हैं शामिल in the सूचियाँ  because they appear in the sources .
These economies are not ranked in the charts here , but are  सूचीबद्ध जहाँ लागू  .
The figures presented here do not take into account  मतभेद in the लागत of जीना in अलग देशों , और the परिणाम can vary greatly इससे  one year to another based on fluctuations in the exchange rates of the country 's currency .
Such  fluctuations may बदलें a देश 's रैंकिंग इससे एक साल to the  next , even though they often make little or no difference to the standard of living of its population .
Therefore  ये आंकड़े चाहिए be प्रयुक्त  with caution .
Some  countries/regions may have नागरिकों जिससे हैं on  average wealthy .
These  countries/regions could appear in इस  list as having a small GDP .
This would be because the country/region  सूचीबद्ध रै a छोटी जनसांख्यिकी , और इसलिए छोटी कुल अर्थव्यवस्था ; the जीडीपी is गणना  as the population times the wealth per capita .
comparisons of नेशनल माल हैं भी अक्सर बना on the आधार of खरीदना शक्ति पैरिटी ( ppp ) , to समायोजन लिये  differences in the cost of living in different countries .
( See  सूची of देशों by जीडीपी ( ppp )  )
PPP largely removes the  एक्सचेंज रेट प्रॉब्लम , लकिन रै इसके अपना कमियां ; it करता नहीं प्रतिबिंबित the मान of आर्थिक आउटपुट in अंतरराष्ट्रीय व्यापार , और  it also requires more estimation than nominal GDP .
On the whole , PPP per capita  आंकड़े हैं अधिक narrowly स्प्रेड than नाममात्र जीडीपी प्रति capita  figures .
The first  सूची शामिल आंकड़ा compiled by the  United Nations Statistics Division for 2011 .
The  दूसरी सूची largely शामिल आंकड़ा ( अनुमान ) compiled by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक  Fund for 2012 .
The third list shows the World Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates , and the  चौथी सूची शामिल ज़्यादातर 2012 estimates इससे the सीआईए संसार factbook .
Lapping is a  machining प्रक्रम , in जिससे दो सतहों हैं मला साथ साथ an अक्खड़ between उन्हें , by  hand movement or by way of a machine .
This  can लो  two forms .
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ) , typically involves rubbing a brittle  सामग्री ऐसे as कांच विरूद्ध a सतह ऐसे as आयरन or कांच itself ( भी ज्ञात as the `` गोद '' or पीस औजार ) साथ an अक्खड़ ऐसे as एल्यूमिनियम ऑक्साइड , जौहरियों 's रूज  , optician 's rouge , emery , silicon carbide , diamond , etc. , in between them .
This produces microscopic conchoidal  fractures as the अक्खड़ रोल्स परिचय between the दो सतहों और removes सामग्री  from both .
The other form of lapping involves a  softer सामग्री ऐसे as पिच or a सिरेमिक लिये the गोद , जिससे is `` चार्ज '' साथ  the abrasive .
The lap is  तब प्रयुक्त to काटें a harder material—the  workpiece .
The  अक्खड़ embeds भीतर the softer सामग्री जिससे holds it और permits  it to score across and cut the harder material .
Taken to a finer limit , this will produce a polished surface such as with a  पॉलिशिंग cloth on an ऑटोमोबाइल , or a पॉलिशिंग cloth or पॉलिशिंग पिच upon कांच or स्टील  .
Taken to the ultimate limit , with the aid of accurate interferometry and  specialized पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled हाथ पॉलिशिंग , lensmakers can उपज सतहों कि हैं  flat to better than 30 nanometers .
This is one twentieth  of the wavelength of लाइट इससे the commonly  used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source .
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded (  optically contacted ) by bringing उन्हें साथ अंतर्गत the सही  conditions .
( This is not the same as the wringing  प्रभाव of जोहानसन ब्लॉक , हालांकि it is  similar ) .
The term `` America 's Team '' is a popular nickname in the United  राज्य कि refers to the डलास cowboys in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League .
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978  हाइलाइट फिल्मी , जहाँ the narrator opens साथ the following परिचय : the पद is पहचाना और प्रायः प्रयुक्त by मीडिया आउटलेट , सहित ईएसपीएन , याहू ! , एचबीओ खेल , और खेल illustrated  .
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma gardienne est un vampire ) is a 2011 Canadian  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी , आधारित on the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी of the वही  name .
In Canada , the series premiered in French on  télétoon on फ़रवरी 28 , 2011 , in अंग्रेज़ी on teletoon on कूच 14 , 2011 , और on डिज़्नी चैनल in the संयुक्त  States on June 27 , 2011 .
the दिखाएँ थी निर्मित by भैस tv , creators of 6teen  and Total Drama .
The show follows Ethan Morgan ( Matthew  नाईट ) , जो , in the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी , learns कि उसके  babysitter Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire .
in the फिल्मी , he learns he is समर्थ to have visions और उसके बेहतरीन dost  Benny Weir ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster .
The series follows the three as they take  on अलौकिक शक्तियां और have adventures , साथ occasional सहायता इससे fellow vampires रोरी ( cameron कैनेडी ) और एरिका ( केट टॉड ) ,  while dealing with the troubles of regular high school life .
A second season was confirmed to start production in  सितंबर 2011 और it पहला premiered on डिज़्नी चैनल on जून 29 , 2012 , it premiered  on Teletoon September 6 , 2012 .
Télétoon started  featuring ऋतु 2 sneak-peak एपीसोड on अक्तूबर 28 , 2012 और premiered  it on January 10 , 2013
Dodge B Series utility  circa 1950 , चलित by अल्बर्ट  Namatjira
A pickup  ट्रक or pick-up , प्रायः बस referred  to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light  ट्रक साथ a हल्का ड्यूटी chassis और फैक्टरी निर्मित , एकीकृत bed , as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों , प्रायः आधारित on a निजी car chassis , लकिन भी प्रायः on a खास समर्पित chassi  for such use .
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup , such  as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड , or bakkie in  South Africa .
Large pickup  ट्रक हैं somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय , जहाँ वैन और लाइट lorries  are commonly used for similar roles .
The President of  the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका ( potus ) is the सिर of  state and head of government of the United States .
The president leads the executive branch  of the संघीय सरकारी और is the commander-in-chief of  the United States Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the  निष्पादन of संघीय विधि , alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका , राजनयिक , नियामक , और न्यायिक अधिकारियों , और concluding treaties साथ विदेशी शक्तियां , साथ the सलाह  and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves , and  to convene और adjourn either or दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस अंतर्गत असाधारण  circumstances .
चूंकि the founding of the संयुक्त राज्य , the शक्ति of the अध्यक्ष और the संघीय सरकारी have grown substantially और प्रत्येक आधुनिक अध्यक्ष  , despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills , is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States .
The  अध्यक्ष is अक्सर वर्णित as the सबसे शक्तिशाली  person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by the people  through the चुनावी कॉलेज to a four-year पद , और is एक of तभी दो nationally निर्वाचित संघीय  officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States .
The Twenty-second Amendment , adopted in 1951  , prohibits anyone इससे कभी होने निर्वाचित to the प्रेसिडेंसी लिये  a third full term .
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if  कि व्यक्ति previously था परोसा as अध्यक्ष , or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष , लिये अधिक than दो सालो of another व्यक्ति 's  term as president .
In all , 43 individuals  have परोसा 55 four-year शर्तें  .
On  जनवरी 20 , 2009 , बराक ओबामा  became the 44th and current president .
On November 6 ,  2012 , he थी re-elected और is अनुसूचित to serve  until January 20 , 2017 .
बोतलबंद खनिज  water
Bottled water is drinking  जल ( e.g. , खूब जल , आसुत जल , खनिज जल  , or spring water ) packaged in plastic or glass water bottles .
बोतलबंद जल may be कार्बोनेटेड  or not .
Sizes range from small  सिंगल सेवारत बोतलों to विशाल carboys  for water coolers .
Map  of the प्रमुख नदियाँ , झीलों ,  and reservoirs in India
Map showing  नदियाँ और बाढ़ prone क्षेत्रों  in India
Rivers of  इण्डिया खेल an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in the जीवनदान of  the Indian people .
The river systems provide irrigation , potable water , cheap transportation ,  विद्युत , और the livelihoods लिये a विशाल क्रमांक of लोगों सब over the देश और to  rural areas .
This easily explains why  nearly सब the प्रमुख शहरों of इण्डिया हैं स्तिथ by the बैंको  of rivers .
The rivers also have an  महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in हिन्दू mythology और हैं माना पावन by सब  Hindus in the country .
Seven  प्रमुख नदियाँ साथ साथ उनके numerous tributaries मेक  up the river system of India .
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however , some of the rivers  जिनकी पाठ्यक्रम लो उन्हें through the पश्चिमी भाग of the देश और towards the ईस्ट of the राज्य of himachal pradesh खाली into  the Arabian Sea .
Parts of Ladakh ,  उत्तरी भाग of the aravlli दायरा और the arid भाग of  the Thar Desert have inland drainage .
dr.francis बुकानन surveyed the पाठ्यक्रम of the नदियाँ of इण्डिया साथ साथ उनके  tributaries and branches in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it .
The shifting of the  पाठ्यक्रम और bed over the सदियां is बहुत उल्लेखनीय  .
Many of the channels  उल्लेखित in कि सर्वेक्षण have अभी become मुर्दे ,  dried or even extinct .
All  प्रमुख नदियाँ of इण्डिया originate  from one of the three main watersheds :
The  हिमालय और the काराकोरम सीमाएँ
Vindhya  और satpura सीमाएँ और chotanagpur पठार  in central India
Sahyadri or  पश्चिमी ghats in पश्चिमी इण्डिया
The  bretton वुड्स प्रणाली of मौद्रिक प्रबन्धन स्थापित the नियम लिये वाणिज्यिक और वित्तीय  relations among the world 's major industrial states in the mid-20th century .
The Bretton Woods system was the first example  of a fully negotiated मौद्रिक अनुक्रम intended to govern मौद्रिक संबंध among  independent nation-states .
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World  युद्ध ii थी स्टिल raging , 730 delegates इससे सब 44 अलाइड राष्ट्र gathered at the माउंट वॉशिंगटन होटल in bretton वुड्स , नई हैम्पशायर  , United States , for the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference .
The delegates  deliberated दौरान 1–22 जुलाई 1944 , और हस्ताक्षरित  the Agreement on its final day .
Setting up a system of rules , institutions , and procedures to  विनियमित the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक प्रणाली , the planners at bretton वुड्स स्थापित the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक निधि ( imf ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बैंको लिये पुनर्निर्माण और विकास  ( IBRD ) , which today is part of the World Bank Group .
These organizations became operational in 1945 after a  sufficient क्रमांक of देशों था ratified the अनुबंध  .
The chief features of the Bretton Woods  प्रणाली यहूद an दायित्व लिये प्रत्येक देश to अपनाना a मौद्रिक नीति कि कायम the एक्सचेंज रेट by tying इसके करेंसी  to the U.S. dollar and the ability of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments .
On 15 August 1971 , the United  राज्य unilaterally terminated convertibility  of the US $ to gold .
इस brought the bretton वुड्स प्रणाली  to an end and saw the dollar become fiat currency .
This action , referred to as the Nixon shock , created  the हालात in जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य डालर became a आरक्षित करेंसी प्रयुक्त  by many states .
At the same  समय , अनेक फिक्स्ड मुद्राएँ ( ऐसे as gbp , लिये उदाहरण  ) , also became free floating .
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an  इतालवी कम्पनी कि डिजाइन और manufactures मोटरसाइकिल  .
Headquartered in Bologna , Italy , Ducati is  स्वामित्व by audi through इसके इतालवी subsidiary लेम्बोर्गिनी  .
A credit score is a  numerical अभिव्यक्ति आधारित on a सांख्यिकीय विश्लेषण of a व्यक्ति 's क्रेडिट फाइलें , to represent  the creditworthiness of that person .
A credit score is  primarily आधारित on क्रेडिट रपट सूचना typically sourced इससे क्रेडिट  bureaus .
Lenders , such as banks and credit  कार्ड कंपनियाँ , उपयोग क्रेडिट स्कोर to evaluate the संभावित रिस्क posed by lending धन to उपभोक्ता और  to mitigate losses due to bad debt .
Lenders use credit scores to  determine जो qualifies लिये a ऋण , at कया  interest rate , and what credit limits .
Lenders also use  क्रेडिट स्कोर to determine जिससे ग्राहक हैं संभावित to लाओ in the सबसे  revenue .
The use of credit or  पहचान स्कोरिंग prior to authorizing अभिगम or granting क्रेडिट  is an implementation of a trusted system .
Credit  स्कोरिंग is नहीं सीमित to  banks .
Other organizations , such as mobile phone companies , insurance  कंपनियाँ , जमींदार , और सरकारी विभाग employ the वही तकनीकों  .
क्रेडिट स्कोरिंग भी रै a लॉट of ओवरलैप  with data mining , which uses many similar techniques .
These techniques combine thousands  of कारकों लकिन वे हैं अधिक or कम  similar or the same .
The seven SI base units and the  interdependency of उनके परिभाषाएं : लिये उदाहरण , to निकालें the परिभाषा of the मीटर इससे the गति of लाइट , the परिभाषा of the दूसरी जरूर be ज्ञात जबकि the ampere और candela हैं  both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length , mass and time .
The International  प्रणाली of इकाई ( si ) defines सात इकाई of माप as a मौलिक  set from which all other SI units are derived .
These SI base units and  उनके शारीरिक quantities are:
metre  लिये लंबाई ( us अंग्रेज़ी  : meter )
किलोग्राम लिये द्रव्यमान ( नोट :  not the gram )
दूसरी लिये  time
ampere लिये इलेक्ट्रिक  current
kelvin  लिये तापमान
candela लिये चमकदार  intensity
mole for the  राशि of पदार्थ  .
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually  स्वतंत्र आयाम as जरूरी by आयामी विश्लेषण commonly  employed in science and technology .
However , in a given realization of these units they  may खूब be interdependent , i.e . पारिभाषित in शर्तें  of each other .
The names of SI units are written in lowercase characters (  the 'degree सेल्सियस ' meets इस नियम , as 'degree ' is the ईकाई  , and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ) .
The symbols of units are written in lowercase ( e.g . metre has the symbol m ) , except that symbols  लिये इकाई नामित बाद व्यक्तियों हैं लिखा साथ an आरंभिक पूंजी अक्षर ( e.g. , the हर्ट्ज़ रै the अपरकेस प्रतीक hz  ) .
Many other units , such as the litre ( US  अंग्रेज़ी : लीनियर ) , हैं formally नहीं भाग of the si , लकिन हैं स्वीकृत  for use with SI .
स्मारक  Canyon
कोलोराडो नेशनल स्मारक ( locally referred to as the स्मारक ) is a भाग of the नेशनल पार्क सेवा निकट the नगर of ग्रैंड  Junction , Colorado .
Spectacular canyons cut deep into  sandstone और भी granite–gneiss–schist चट्टान formations  , in some areas .
This is an  क्षेत्रफल of मरुस्थल जमीन ऊँची on the कोलोराडो पठार , साथ पिनियन और juniper  forests on the plateau .
the पार्क होस्ट a चौड़ी दायरा of वन्यजीव , सहित red-tailed चीलों और सुनहरी ईगल्स , ravens  , jays , desert bighorn sheep , and coyotes .
क्रियाएँ शामिल चढ़ाई , horseback सवारी , सड़क bicycling , और दर्शनीय ड्राइव ; a आगंतुक बीच on the वेस्ट  side contains a natural history museum and gift shop .
There are magnificent views from trails and the Rim Rock  ड्राइव , जिससे हवाएँ साथ the पठार  .
आसपास हैं the किताब cliffs , और  the largest flat-topped mountain in the world , the Grand Mesa .
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon , which  रनों the चौडाई of the पार्क , और शामिल चट्टान formations ऐसे as स्वतंत्रता स्मारक , the चुंबन युगल , और कोक  Ovens .
the स्मारक शामिल 20,500 एकड़ ( 32 वर्गाकार मील ) , much of जिससे  has been recommended to Congress for designation as wilderness .
left to right : Utility Uniform , Blue Dress  वर्दी , सेवा वर्दी , और संध्या पोशाक  uniforms
The  वर्दी of the संयुक्त राज्य समुद्री corps serve to फर्क  Marines from members of other services .
Among current uniforms in the  संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद शक्तियां , the marines ' वर्दी have  been in service the longest .
The Marine Dress Blue  वर्दी रै , साथ few परिवर्तन , महरूम worn in essentially इसके वर्तमान रूप  since the 19th century .
North American telephone area codes  419 और 567 serve the उत्तरपश्चिम quadrant  of the U.S. state of Ohio .
The largest city served by these  क्षेत्रफल कोड is टोलेडो ( और इसके उपनगरों of हॉलैंड , maumee , northwood , ऑरेगॉन , ओटावा पहाड़ियाँ , perrysburg , rossford  , Sylvania , Swanton , Waterville , and Whitehouse ) .
Other cities served by these area codes include Ada , Ashland , Bellevue , Bluffton , Bowling Green , Bryan , Bucyrus , Celina , Clyde , Crestline , Defiance , Delphos ,  एडिसन , erastus , findlay , fostoria , fremont , galion , kenton , लीमा , मैन्सफील्ड , माउंट gilead , नेपोलियन , नॉरवॉक , ओक हार्बर , बंदरगाहों क्लिंटन , sandusky , शेल्बी , st. marys , tiffin , अपर sandusky  , Van Wert , Wapakoneta , Wauseon , Willard .
अन्य क्षेत्रों परोसा शामिल the झील erie आइलैंड्स उत्तर of बंदरगाहों  Clinton and west of Sandusky .
The main area  कोड , 419 , थी निर्मित as एक of the असली क्षेत्रफल कोड in अक्तूबर 1947 ; the ओवरले क्षेत्रफल कोड  567 was created on January 1 , 2002 .
Despite the presence of Toledo , the state 's fourth-largest city , 419 was the  पिछला of ओहियो 's असली चार क्षेत्रफल कोड to have महरूम विभाजित or overlaid  .
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born March 9 ,  1936 ) is an अमरीकी देश  music singer and musician .
Although he started out  गायन straight-up देश और पश्चिमी सामग्री in the 1970s , he स्थानांतरित towards a अधिक पॉप -friendly  sound in the 1980s , bringing him further success on not just the country charts , but the pop charts as well .
Among his biggest hits are `` Room Full of Roses , '' `` Do n't the  लड़कियों सब मिलेंगी prettier at closing समय , '' और the रीमेक  of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me `` .
He is also the cousin of Jerry  ली लुईस , कार्ल mcvoy , जिम  Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart .
According to the Federal Aviation Administration , Gilley is a licensed pilot , who holds an instrument  दरजा साथ वाणिज्यिक पायलट privileges लिये multi-engine airplanes , as खूब as निजी पायलट privileges लिये  single engine aircraft .
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11 , September 11th ,  or 9/11 ) यहूद a श्रेणी of चार समन्वित आतंकवादी हमले शुभारम्भ by the इस्लामी आतंकवादी समूह al-qaeda upon the संयुक्त राज्य  in New York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners were  hijacked by 19 al-qaeda आतंकवादी so वे could be flown into  buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes , American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175 , were crashed into the North and  दक्षिण मीनारें , क्रमशः , of the संसार व्यापार बीच जटिल in नई यॉर्क नगर .
Within two  घंटों , दोनो मीनारें collapsed साथ मलबा और the resulting फ़ायर causing आंशिक or पूरा पतन of सब अन्य इमारतें in  the WTC complex , as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures .
A third plane , American Airlines Flight  77 , थी क्रैश into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of रक्षा ) , अग्रणी to a आंशिक पतन  in its western side .
the चौथी प्लेन , संयुक्त एयरलाइंस उड़ान 93 , थी targeted at the संयुक्त राज्य कैपिटल  in Washington , D.C. , but crashed into a field near Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total , almost 3,000 people died in the  हमले , सहित the 227 नागरिकों और 19 hijackers सवार the चार  planes .
suspicion जल्दी गिरी  on al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin  लादेन , initially अस्वीकृत कोई भागीदारी , in 2004 he claimed जिम्मेदारी  for the attacks .
al-qaeda और बिन लादेन cited u.S. support of इसराईल , the उपस्थिति of u.S. सैनिकों  in Saudi Arabia , and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the attacks .
The United States responded to the attacks by  शुभारंभ the युद्ध on आतंक और आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान to depose the तालिबान , जिससे था harbored al-qaeda  .
Many countries strengthened their  anti-terrorism विधान और विस्तारित विधि प्रवर्तन शक्तियां  .
Having evaded capture for years ,  बिन लादेन थी स्तिथ और मारे by u.S. शक्तियां  in May 2011 .
The destruction of the Twin  मीनारें और अन्य गुण caused गंभीर क्षति to the अर्थव्यवस्था of निम्नतर मैनहटन  and had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site  थी समाप्त in may 2002 , और the प्रस्तुतीकरण थी repaired भीतर a साल .
Numerous memorials have been constructed ,  सहित the नेशनल सितंबर 11 मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क , the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल , और the उड़ान  93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a lengthy delay , the One World Trade Center is  अपेक्षित to be समाप्त at मैदान शून्य in नई यॉर्क नगर  in 2013 .
Finding Nemo is a  2003 अमरीकी computer-animated comedy-drama एडवेंचर फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by एंड्रयू stanton , released by  Walt Disney Pictures , and the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios .
It tells the story  of the over-protective clownfish नामित marlin ( अल्बर्ट ब्रूक्स ) जो , साथ साथ a राजसी तंग नामित dory ( एलेन degeneres ) , खोज  for his abducted son Nemo ( Alexander Gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour .
Along the way , Marlin  learns to लो risks और let nemo लो परवाह  of himself .
It is Pixar 's first film  to be released in cinemas in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध गर्मियाँ  .
The film was re-released for the first  समय in 3d on सितंबर 14 , 2012 , और it थी released on blu-ray on दिसम्बर  4 , 2012 .
A sequel ,  ढूंढना dory , is फिलहाल in विकास , नियत to be released  on November 25 , 2015 .
The film received universal critical acclaim  और जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन एनिमेटेड विशेषता , और थी मनोनीत in तीन अधिक  categories including Best Original Screenplay .
It was the second highest-grossing film of  2003 , कमाई a कुल of $ 921 लाख विश्वव्यापी  .
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all time , with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006 , and was the  highest-grossing g-rated फिल्मी of सब समय पहले पिक्चर्स 's अपना खिलौना स्टोरी 3  overtook it .
It is also the 23rd  highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब समय , as खूब as the 3rd highest-grossing  animated film .
In 2008  , the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान नामित it the दसवाँ महानतम एनिमेटेड फिल्मी  ever made during their Top 10 .
The sixth season  of अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू , भी ज्ञात as अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू : ऋतु of the सुपरस्टार , premiered  on April 7 , 2011 and concluded on June 5 , 2011 .
Auditions were held in four cities from  जनवरी 21 through फ़रवरी 5 : शिकागो , ह्यूस्टन , नई यॉर्क , और  Los Angeles .
इस ऋतु takes a अलग रूट  from past seasons .
The crews must perform to the music of one  विशिष्ट कलाकार प्रत्येक सप्ताह , सहित रिहाना , लील वेन , और अन्य  popular stars .
This season also features special guest appearances by various  म्यूज़िक हस्तियाँ सहित जस्टिन बीबर , the ब्लैक eyed मटर , कैटी पेरी , kesha , निकी minaj , और kanye  West .
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval , a former member of Quest Crew ,  the विजेता of the तीसरा ऋतु of अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू , joins  returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge .
In the season finale , I aM mE  थी घोषित the विजेता of ऋतु 6 और प्राप्त the $ 100,000  ( USD ) prize .
In the  संयुक्त राज्य , सोशल सुरक्षा refers to the old-age , survivors ,  and Disability Insurance ( OASDI ) federal program .
The original Social Security Act ( 1935 ) and the current  संस्करण of the अधिनियम , as amended , encompass अनेक सोशल welfare और सोशल बीमे कार्यक्रम  .
सोशल सुरक्षा is primarily वित्तपोषित through समर्पित payroll कर पुकारा संघीय बीमे  Contributions Act tax ( FICA ) .
Tax deposits  हैं formally entrusted to the संघीय old-age और survivors बीमे विश्वास निधि , the संघीय विकलांगता बीमे विश्वास निधि , the संघीय हॉस्पिटल बीमे विश्वास निधि , or  the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund .
Upward  redistribution of आय is जिम्मेदार लिये परिचय 43 % of the  projected Social Security shortfall over the next 75 years .
According to economist Martin Feldstein , the combined spending for  सब सोशल बीमे कार्यक्रम in 2003 गठित 37 % of सरकारी व्यय  and 7 % of the gross domestic product .
Social Security is currently estimated to keep roughly 40  प्रतिशत of सब अमेरिकी आयु 65  or older out of poverty .
The  सोशल सुरक्षा प्रशासन is headquartered in woodlawn  , Maryland , just west of Baltimore .
The alcohol  by आवाज़ दिखाया on a बोतल of  absinthe .
Alcohol by volume (  abbreviated as abv , abv , or alc/vol ) is a मानक माप of कैसा much दारू ( इथेनॉल ) is contained in  an alcoholic beverage ( expressed as a percentage of total volume ) .
The  abv मानक is प्रयुक्त  worldwide .
In some countries , alcohol by volume  is referred to as डिग्री gay-lussac ( बाद the फ्रेंच केमिस्ट जोसेफ  Louis Gay-Lussac ) .
Laurel Hollow is a  गाँव in the कस्बा of सीप खाड़ी in nassau काउंटी , नई यॉर्क in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 1,952  at the 2010 census .
Charles  जॉन huffam डिकेंस ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 1812 – 9 जून 1870 ) थी  an English writer and social critic .
He created some of the  संसार 's सबसे यादगार fictional वर्ण और is generally  regarded as the greatest novelist of the Victorian period .
During his life , his works enjoyed unprecedented fame  , और by the बीसवीं सदी उसके साहित्यिक प्रतिभाशाली थी broadly acknowledged  by critics and scholars .
His  novels और छोटी कहानियां continue  to be widely popular .
Born in Portsmouth , England , Dickens left school  to कार्य in a फैक्टरी बाद उसके पिता थी thrown  into debtors ' prison .
Although he had little  औपचारिक शिक्षा , उसके जल्दी impoverishment  drove him to succeed .
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 years , wrote 15 novels , 5 novellas and hundreds of short stories and  non-fiction आलेख , lectured और performed extensively , थी an indefatigable अक्षर लेखक , और campaigned vigorously लिये children 's अधिकारों , शिक्षा , और अन्य सोशल reforms  .
Dickens sprang to fame with  the 1836 सीरियल प्रकाशन of the pickwick  Papers .
Within a few years he had become an international  साहित्यिक हस्ती , प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके ह्यूमर , व्यंग्य , और keen अवलोकन of अक्षर और  society .
His novels , most published in monthly or weekly instalments ,  pioneered the सीरियल प्रकाशन of कथा fiction , जिससे became the प्रबल विक्टोरियन विधि लिये अनोखा  publication .
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience 's  प्रतिक्रिया , और he प्रायः परिवर्धित उसके प्लाट और अक्षर विकास आधारित on  such feedback .
For example , when his wife 's chiropodist expressed distress at the way Miss  mowcher in दाउद कॉपरफील्ड लगा to प्रतिबिंबित उसके disabilities , डिकेंस गई on to improve the अक्षर साथ धनात्मक  lineaments .
Fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence  ikey सुलेमान ; उसके कैरीकेचर of leigh हंट in the फिगर of mr skimpole in bleak हाउस थी likewise toned bas on सलाह इससे कुछ of उसके मित्रों , as वे पढ़ा  episodes .
in the वही अनोखा , दोनो लॉरेंस boythorne और मूनी the beadle हैं drawn इससे रियल जीवन – boythorne  from Walter Savage Landor and Mooney from 'Looney ' , a beadle at Salisbury Square .
His plots were carefully  constructed , और डिकेंस प्रायः wove in तत्व इससे topical कार्यक्रम into उसके कहानियां  .
Masses of the  अनपढ़ ग़रीब chipped in ha'pennies to have प्रत्येक नई मासिक एपीसोड पढ़ा to उन्हें ,  opening up and inspiring a new class of readers .
डिकेंस थी regarded as the साहित्यिक colossus  of his age .
His 1843 novella , A Christmas Carol , is one of the most influential works  कभी लिखा , और it remains लोकप्रिय और continues to inspire adaptations  in every artistic genre .
His creative genius has been praised by fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G.  K. चेस्टरटन और जार्ज ऑरवेल —for इसके यथार्थवाद , कॉमेडी , गद्य स्टाइल , अद्वितीय characterisations , और सोशल  criticism .
On the other hand Oscar Wilde , Henry James and  वर्जिनिया woolf complained of a कमी of मनोवैज्ञानिक गहराई  , loose writing , and a vein of saccharine sentimentalism .
Martin Luther King and  अन्य सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ in सामने of the प्रतिमा of अब्राहम lincoln  , August 28 , 1963
The civil  अधिकारों गति थी a श्रेणी of विश्वव्यापी राजनैतिक आंदोलनों  for equality before the law that peaked in the 1960s .
In many situations it  took the रूप of अभियान of सिविल प्रतिरोध aimed at achieving बदलें  by nonviolent forms of resistance .
In some situations it was  accompanied , or followed , by सिविल अशांति और हथियारबंद  rebellion .
The process was long and tenuous  in अनेक देशों , और अनेक of ये आंदोलनों किया नहीं fully achieve उनके लक्ष्य हालांकि , the प्रयत्न of ये  movements did lead to improvements in the legal rights of previously oppressed groups of people .
The main aim  of the सिविल अधिकारों गति शामिल , और शामिल , ensuring कि the अधिकारों of सब लोगों हैं बराबर सुरक्षित  by the law , including the rights of minorities .
Civil rights  आंदोलनों ranging इससे the वैश्विक lgbt अधिकारों गति to  the global Women 's rights movement to various racial minority rights movements around the world continue .
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was  the 19th फीफा संसार कप , the संसार चैंपियनशिप  for men 's national association football teams .
It took place in  दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी इससे 11 जून to 11 जुलाई  2010 .
The bidding process for  होस्टिंग the टूर्नामेंट फाइनल थी खोलें तभी to अफ़्रीकी राष्ट्र ; in 2004 , the अंतरराष्ट्रीय फ़ुटबॉल संघ , फीफा  , selected South Africa over Egypt and Morocco to become the first African nation to host the finals .
The matches were played in ten  स्टेडियम in नौ मेजबान शहरों around the देश , साथ the फाइनल निभाई at the सॉकर नगर स्टेडियम in दक्षिण  Africa 's largest city , Johannesburg .
Thirty-two teams were selected for  भागीदारी via a विश्वव्यापी योग्यता टूर्नामेंट कि began in  August 2007 .
In the first round of the tournament finals , the teams competed in  round-robin समूह of चार टीमों लिये अंक , साथ the शीर्ष दो टीमों in प्रत्येक समूह  proceeding .
These  सोलह टीमों उन्नत to the नॉकआउट स्टेज , जहाँ तीन rounds  of play decided which teams would participate in the final .
In the final , Spain , the European champions ,  पराजित third-time finalists the नीदरलैंड्स 1–0 बाद अतिरिक्त समय , साथ आन्द्रेस iniesta 's लक्ष्य in the 116th मिनट giving स्पेन उनके पहला संसार शीर्षक , बनने the आठवीं स्वदेश to जीत the टूर्नामेंट , और the पहला  European nation to win the tournament outside its home continent .
Host nation South Africa ,  2006 संसार champions इटली और 2006 runners-up फ़्रांस यहूद सब eliminated  in the first round of the tournament .
It was the  पहला समय कि the होस्ट यहूद  eliminated in the first round .
New  जीलैंड साथ उनके तीन draws यहूद the तभी  undefeated team in the tournament , but were also eliminated in the first round .
The McMuffin is a family of breakfast sandwiches in various  आकार और configurations , बेची by the fast-food रेस्तरां  chain McDonald 's .
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast  सैंडविच ; it थी invented by the लेट मैकडोनाल्ड 's वाल हर्ब पीटरसन in the लेट  1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972 .
जॉन लेनन थी an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार जो gained विश्वव्यापी कीर्ति as एक of the संस्थापकों of the बीटल्स , लिये उसके subsequent  solo career , and for his political activism and pacifism .
He was shot by Mark David Chapman at the  प्रवेश of the भवन जहाँ he जिया ,  The Dakota , in New York City on 8 December 1980 .
Lennon had just  लौटे इससे रिकार्ड संयंत्र स्टुडियो साथ उसके बीवी ,  Yoko Ono .
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St.  luke's-roosevelt हॉस्पिटल बीच , जहाँ it थी stated कि nobody could have जिया लिये अधिक than a few मिनट्स बाद sustaining  such injuries .
Shortly after local news stations reported Lennon 's death ,  crowds gathered at रूज़वेल्ट हॉस्पिटल और in सामने  of the Dakota .
Lennon was cremated on 10 December  1980 at the ferncliff कब्रिस्तान in hartsdale , नई यॉर्क ; the राख यहूद दिए to ओनो  , who chose not to hold a funeral for him .
the पहला रपट of लेनन 's मौत to a u.S. नेशनल दर्शक थी घोषित by हावर्ड  Cosell , on ABC 's Monday Night Football .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a major United  राज्य बंदरगाहों और the largest नगर और महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the राज्य  of Louisiana .
The population of the city  थी 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. जनसांख्यिकी  .
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a  जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010 और थी the 46th largest in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
The New Orleans–Metairie–Bogalusa  संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , a larger व्यापार क्षेत्रफल , था a 2010  population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans , a city located on the Loire River  in केन्द्र , फ़्रांस , और is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके पृथक फ्रेंच क्रियोल वास्तुकला , as खूब as इसके cross-cultural  and multilingual heritage .
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine , music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ) , and  इसके सालाना जश्न और त्यौहार , सबसे notably mardi  Gras .
The city is often referred to as the  `` सबसे अद्वितीय '' in अमेरिका  .
New  ऑरलियन्स is स्तिथ in southeastern louisiana , straddling  the Mississippi River .
The  नगर और ऑरलियन्स मोहल्ला ( )  are .
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to  the उत्तर , st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट , plaquemines to the दक्षिण और जेफरसन to the दक्षिण और  west .
Lake Pontchartrain ,  भाग of जिससे is शामिल in the नगर हद , झूठ to the  north and Lake Borgne lies to the east .
The United States presidential election of 1968  थी the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , आयोजित on मंगलवार  , November 5 , 1968 .
the रिपब्लिकन nominee , पूर्व vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन , जीती the चुनाव over the लोकतांत्रिक nominee  , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to  restore विधि और अनुक्रम to the स्वदेश 's शहरों  , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it  permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि था वर्चस्व अध्यक्षीय राजनीती  for 36 years .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson  जीती in a ऐतिहासिक भूस्खलन , the चुनाव देखी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर आउट of the रेस और a रिपब्लिकन  elected for the first time in twelve years .
It was a wrenching national experience , conducted during a year of violence that included the  हत्या of सिविल अधिकारों नेता मार्टिन लूथर किंग , jr. , और subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the स्वदेश , the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. कैनेडी , फैली विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध आरपार विश्वविद्यालयों campuses  , and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
The election featured the  strongest तीसरा पार्टी प्रयत्न चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा राज्यपाल जार्ज वालेस  , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal  हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to समाप्त स्कूल पृथक्करण , he carried the गहन दक्षिण और भागा  well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This was the last  चुनाव in जिससे नई यॉर्क था the सबसे मत in the  electoral college ( 43 votes ) .
बाद the 1970 जनसांख्यिकी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the सबसे चुनावी  votes and has remained the most populous state since then .
This is the latest election where a presidential  टिकट जीती बगैर carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's  home state .
Karak ( ; also known as Garak , Garrak , and  gorg ) is a गाँव in gamasiyab ग्रामीण ज़िला , in the सेंट्रल ज़िला  of Nahavand County , Hamadan Province , Iran .
At the 2006 census ,  इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी 294 , in 65 परिवारों  .
Kurt 's  हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 –  अप्रैल 5 , 1994 ) थी an अमरीकी संगीतकार और कलाकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर , guitarist और प्राथमिक  songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana  साथ krist novoselic in एबरडीन , वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित  it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with ``  खुश्बू जैसे टीन स्पिरिट `` इससे इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind ( 1991  ) .
Following the  कामयाबी of nevermind , निर्वाण थी labeled `` the फ्लैगशिप बैंड '' of पीढी  X , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated ,  believing उसके संदेश और कलाकारी दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the पब्लिक , साथ उसके निजी मुद्दे प्रायः  subject to media attention .
He challenged  निर्वाण 's दर्शक साथ इसके फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम in  Utero ( 1993 ) .
During  the पिछला सालो of उसके जीवन , कोबेन struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन  , illness and depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong personal  pressures surrounding खुद और उसके बीवी , संगीतकार कोर्टनी प्रेम  .
On  अप्रैल 8 , 1994 , कोबेन थी मिला मुर्दे at उसके घर in सिएटल , the शिकार  of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances of his  मौत at आयु 27 have become a टॉपिक of पब्लिक fascination  and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana ,  साथ कोबेन as a songwriter , रै बेची over 25 लाख एल्बम in the u.S. , और over 50 लाख विश्वव्यापी  .
A millwright is a craftsman or  tradesman सगाई साथ the निर्माण और मेंटेनेंस  of machinery .
More  generally in the अंग्रेज़ी बोलना संसार , जल्दी millwrights यहूद विशेषज्ञ बढ़ई  who erected machines used in agriculture , food processing and processing lumber and paper .
In the early  भाग of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति , उनके कौशल यहूद दबाया into  service building the earliest powered textile mills .
आधुनिक millwrights कार्य साथ स्टील और अन्य सामग्री in जोड to लकडी और जरूर प्रायः combine the कौशल of अनेक skilled ट्रेड in अनुक्रम to सफलतापूर्वक  fabricate industrial machinery or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated parts .
The modern millwright must also be able to read  blueprints और अन्य schematics to सहायता उसे in the निर्माण of जटिल  systems .
millwrights हैं अक्सर unionized , साथ around 45 % unionized in the us , हालांकि अनुभवी  millwrights often set themselves up as independent contractors .
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011  अमरीकी रोमांटिक कार्रवाई थ्रिलर फिल्मी loosely आधारित on the फिलिप K. लंड छोटी स्टोरी  , `` Adjustment Team `` .
The film was written and  निर्देशित by जार्ज nolfi और सितारों मैट डैमन  and Emily Blunt .
the डाल भी शामिल एंथोनी mackie  , John Slattery , Michael Kelly , and Terence Stamp .
The score was composed by Thomas Newman ,  साथ दो गीतों by रिचर्ड ashcroft ( `` भविष्य 's उज्जवल '' लिये the खोलने अनुक्रम ; ``  Are You Ready ? '' for the closing credits ) .
सोडियम azide is the अकार्बनिक यौगिक  with the formula NaN3 .
This colorless  नमक is the gas-forming घटक in अनेक  car airbag systems .
It is used for the  तैयारी of अन्य azide  compounds .
It is an  ionic पदार्थ , is अत्यधिक घुलनशील in जल , और  is very acutely toxic .
Double  रेनबो और supernumerary rainbows  on the inside of the primary arc .
The shadow of the photographer 's head on the bottom  marks the केन्द्र of the रेनबो वृत्त (  antisolar point ) .
A rainbow is an  ऑप्टिकल और meteorological घटना कि is caused by प्रतिबिंब of लाइट in जल droplets in the धरती 's माहौल  , resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky .
It takes the form  of a multicoloured चाप  .
Rainbows  caused by धूप सदा appear in the खण्ड  of sky directly opposite the sun .
In a ``  प्राथमिक रेनबो '' , the चाप shows रेड on the बाहरी भाग  and violet on the inner side .
This rainbow is caused by light being refracted  जबकि प्रवेश a droplet of जल , तब reflected अंदर on the वापस of the droplet  and refracted again when leaving it .
In a double rainbow , a  दूसरी चाप is देखी बाहर the प्राथमिक चाप , और रै the अनुक्रम of इसके रंग  reversed , red facing toward the other one , in both rainbows .
This second rainbow is caused  by लाइट reflecting twice अंदर जल droplets  .
The Conservative  पार्टी , officially the रूढ़िवादी और यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी और colloquially referred to as the tory पार्टी or  the Tories , is a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and British unionism .
it is the largest political  पार्टी in the संयुक्त किंगडम , होने the largest सिंगल पार्टी in the हाउस of  Commons with 303 MPs , the largest party in local government with 9,391 councillors , and the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs .
it governs in गठबन्धन साथ the उदार डेमोक्रेट ,  with party leader David Cameron as Prime Minister .
The  रूढ़िवादी पार्टी थी संस्थापित in 1834 , और थी एक of दो प्रबल पार्टियों  in the 19th century , along with the Liberal Party .
It changed its name to the  रूढ़िवादी और यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी in 1912 बाद विलय साथ the उदार यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी  , although that name is rarely used and it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative Party .
in the 1920s , the उदार vote greatly  diminished and the Labour Party became the Conservatives ' main rivals .
Conservative Prime Ministers led governments for 57  सालो of the 20th सदी , सहित विंस्टन चर्चिल ( 1940–45 , 1951–55 ) और मार्गरेट थैचर  ( 1979–90 ) .
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging  आर्थिक उदारीकरण और देखी the conservatives become the सबसे eurosceptic  of the three major parties .
The party was returned to government in coalition , having  विफल to जीत a बहुमत , in 2010 अंतर्गत the अधिक `` उदार '' नेतृत्व  of David Cameron .
In the European Parliament , the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs , who sit with the soft eurosceptic  यूरोपीय conservatives और reformists ( ecr ) संसदीय समूह , जबकि the पार्टी itself is a सदस्य of the गठबंधन of यूरोपीय conservatives और reformists  ( AECR ) Europarty .
वे हैं the third-largest पार्टी in the स्कॉटिश पार्लियामेंट  and second-largest in the Welsh Assembly .
They were formally allied to the Ulster Unionist Party ( UUP ) as part of the  ulster conservatives और unionists व्यवस्था , साथ the uup फिलहाल participating in the five-party उत्तरी  Ireland Executive .
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose  फाइनल , और शायद सबसे recognizable , line-up comprised बेयोंस नॉलेस , केली rowland और मिशेल  Williams .
Formed in 1990 in Houston , Texas , Destiny 's Child members began their  musical endeavors as लड़की 's टीमे comprising , among अन्य , नॉलेस , rowland , latavia roberson और letoya luckett  .
After years of limited success  , वे यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड as  Destiny 's Child .
Destiny 's Child  थी शुभारम्भ into मुख्यधारा मान्यता following the रिलीज of उनके best-selling दूसरी एल्बम , the लिखने 's on the वॉल  , which contained the number-one singles `` Bills , Bills , Bills `` and `` Say My Name `` .
Despite critical and commercial success , the group was  plagued by आतंरिक विरोध और विधिक turmoil , as roberson और luckett attempted to विभाजित इससे the समूह 's मैनेजर mathew नॉलेस , citing favoritism of नॉलेस और rowland  , his daughter and niece , respectively .
Both Roberson and Luckett were soon replaced with  विलियम्स और farrah फ्रैंकलिन ; however , in 2000 , फ्रैंकलिन थी बर्खास्त , leaving उन्हें  as a trio .
Their third album , Survivor , which contains themes the public interpreted as a channel to the group 's experience , contains the  विश्वव्यापी हिट्स `` स्वतंत्र महिलाओं `` , `` उत्तरजीवी `` और `` bootylicious ``  .
In 2002 , they announced a hiatus and re-united two  सालो बाद लिये the रिलीज of उनके चौथी स्टुडियो एल्बम , नियति fulfilled ( 2004 )  .
Destiny 's  चाइल्ड रै बेची अधिक than 50 लाख  records worldwide to date .
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one of the greatest  musical trios of सब समय , the नवीं सबसे कामयाब artist/band of the 2000s , और लगाई the समूह 68th in इसके all-time hot  100 Artists list in 2008 .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United States federal agency  अंतर्गत the विभाग of स्वास्थ्य और इंसान सेवाएं headquartered in druid पहाड़ियाँ , unincorporated dekalb काउंटी  , Georgia , in Greater Atlanta .
It  works to protect पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य और सुरक्षा by providing सूचना to बढ़ाएँ स्वास्थ्य निर्णय , और it promotes  health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations .
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control ( especially infectious diseases and  foodborne pathogens और अन्य सूक्ष्मजैविक infections ) , पर्यावरणीय स्वास्थ्य , occupational सुरक्षा और स्वास्थ्य , स्वास्थ्य प्रमोशन , चोट रोकथाम और शिक्षा क्रियाएँ designed to  improve the health of the people of the United States .
The CDC is the United States ' national public health institute and  is a founding सदस्य of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of नेशनल  Public Health Institutes .
Earthquake  भविष्यवाणी `` is प्रायः पारिभाषित as the specification of the समय , स्थान , और परिमाण  of a future earthquake within stated limits '' , and particularly of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in a region . ''
This can be distinguished from earthquake  forecasting , जिससे is the probabilistic मूल्यांकन of सामान्य भूकंप जोखिम , सहित the आवृत्ति और परिमाण of  damaging earthquakes , in a given area over periods of years or decades .
This can be further distinguished  इससे real-time भूकंप चेतावनी प्रणालियों , जिससे , upon डिटेक्शन of a कठोर भूकंप , can provide neighboring  regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking .
To be useful , an  भूकंप भविष्यवाणी जरूर be precise पर्याप्त to वारंट the लागत of increased एहतियात , सहित disruption of ordinary क्रियाएँ और कॉमर्स ,  and timely enough that preparation can be made .
Predictions must also be reliable ,  as गलत सचेतक और रद्द सचेतक हैं नहीं तभी economically costly , लकिन seriously undermine विश्वास in , और  thereby the effectiveness of , any kind of warning .
With over 7,000 earthquakes around the world  प्रत्येक साल साथ a परिमाण of 4.0 or वृहद , नगण्य कामयाबी in भूकंप भविष्यवाणी is easily  obtained using sufficiently broad parameters of time , location , or magnitude .
however , ऐसे नगण्य `` कामयाब  predictions '' are not useful .
Major  भूकंप हैं प्रायः followed by रिपोर्ट्स कि वे यहूद पूर्वानुमानित , or at तनिक anticipated , लकिन no अर्जी of  a successful prediction of a major earthquake has survived close inquiry .
In the 1970s there was intense optimism amongst scientists that some  विधि of predicting भूकंप might be मिला , लकिन by the 1990s continuing विफलता led अनेक वैज्ञानिकों to सवाल whether it थी  even possible .
जबकि अनेक वैज्ञानिकों स्टिल थाम कि , दिए पर्याप्त संसाधन , भविष्यवाणी  might be possible , many others maintain that earthquake prediction is inherently impossible .
डेबोरा ऐन `` debby '' रयान ( born may 13 , 1993 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  , singer , musician , songwriter and record producer .
Ryan is best known for starring as  बेली पिकेट in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली श्रेणी the सुइट  Life on Deck .
In 2008 , The Suite  जीवन on डेक क्रमित as tv 's शीर्ष श्रेणी among बच्चे 6-11 और the no .  2 scripted series among tweens 9-14 .
Ryan started acting in professional theatres at the age of seven ; in  2007 वो appeared in the बार्नी & मित्रों straight-to-dvd फिल्मी बार्नी : let 's go to the फायरहाउस और तब थी खोजा  in a nationwide search by Disney .
वो is भी ज्ञात लिये appearing in the 2008 विशेषता फिल्मी  The Longshots as Edith .
In 2009 , she guest starred in an episode of Wizards  of waverly प्लेस in wizards on डेक साथ हन्ना मोंटाना as बेली पिकेट साथ साथ उसके  other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck .
Then , in 2010 , she starred in the film 16  बधाइयां , जिससे थी the सबसे देखी केबल कार्यक्रम on the दिन of इसके प्रीमियर on the डिज़्नी  Channel .
16 Wishes introduced Ryan to new audiences ;  the फिल्म प्राप्त ऊँची viewership in the वयस्कों  demographic ( 18-34 ) .
जल्द बाद कि , रयान स्ट्रक्चर in the स्वतंत्र नाट्य  film , What If ... , which premiered on August 20 , 2010 .
Ryan also starred in the new Disney  चैनल असली फिल्म , रेडियो विद्रोही , जहाँ वो portrays the भूमिका of tara एडम्स , a शर्मीले 17-year-old लड़की जो adopts  the radio personality , Radio Rebel .
Released  फ़रवरी 17 ,  2012 .
Ryan stars in  the titular भूमिका in the डिज़्नी चैनल  Original Series , Jessie .
stührling tourbillon  Movement ( ) .
In horology ,  a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an  addition to the mechanics of a watch escapement .
विकसित around 1795 by the french-swiss घड़ीसाज़ abraham-louis breguet इससे an पहले विचार by the अंग्रेज़ी chronometer मेकर जॉन अर्नाल्ड , a tourbillon aims to काउंटर the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता  by mounting the escapement and balance wheel in a rotating cage , to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position .
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy , tourbillons are still included  in कुछ महंगी आधुनिक घड़ियाँ as a विलक्षणता और demonstration of watchmaking  virtuosity .
The mechanism is usually  उजागर on the देखें 's फेस to दिखाएँ  it off .
The Windows Installer (  previously ज्ञात as microsoft installer ) is a तन्त्र घटक प्रयुक्त लिये the संस्थापना , मेंटेनेंस , और हटाना of तन्त्र on  modern Microsoft Windows systems .
The installation information , and often the files themselves , are packaged in installation packages , loosely  रिलेशनल databases संरचित as com संरचित storages और commonly ज्ञात as `` msi फाइलें '' , इससे उनके  default file extension .
Windows Installer  contains significant परिवर्तन इससे इसके पूर्ववर्ती , सेटअप  API .
New features include a GUI framework and  स्वचालित पीढी of the uninstallation अनुक्रम  .
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone  executable installer frameworks ऐसे as पुरानी संस्करण of installshield  and NSIS .
Microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows Installer as the basis for  संस्थापना frameworks , so कि वे synchronize correctly साथ अन्य installers और रखना the आतंरिक डेटाबेस  of installed products consistent .
Important features  ऐसे as rollback और versioning निर्भर on a सतत आतंरिक  database for reliable operation .
furthermore , खिड़कियाँ installer facilitates the principle of तनिक विशेषाधिकार  by performing software installations by proxy for unprivileged users .
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic  पेय , originally marketed as उर्जा पेय , बेची by phusion प्रोजेक्ट  of Chicago , Illinois .
phusion operates as पेय चार brewing  Company .
Four Loko , the company 's most  लोकप्रिय पेय , debuted in the संयुक्त  States market in 2005 .
It is now  बेची in 48 राज्य , और in कनाडा , the बहामा  , Bolivia , Honduras , and Europe .
The name `` Four '' is derived from  the असली उर्जा पेय 's चार प्रमुख संघटक :  alcohol , caffeine , taurine , and guarana .
Four branded  उत्पाद have महरूम the ऑब्जेक्ट of विधिक , नैतिक , और स्वास्थ्य चिंताएं सम्बन्धित to the कम्पनी allegedly विपणन उन्हें to the underaged  and the purported danger of combining alcohol and caffeine .
After the beverage  थी बैन in अनेक राज्य , a उत्पाद reintroduction in दिसम्बर 2010 removed कैफीन  , taurine , and guarana as ingredients , and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink .
the गर्दन of a गिटार प्रर्दशित the नट ( in the पृष्ठभूमि ,  coloured white ) and first four metal frets .
A  fret is a उठाया तत्व on  the neck of a stringed instrument .
Frets  प्रायः extend आरपार the पूरा  width of the neck .
On most modern western fretted  यंत्र , frets हैं मेटल स्ट्रिप्स inserted into the fingerboard  .
on कुछ ऐतिहासिक यंत्र और non-european यंत्र  , frets are made of pieces of string tied around the neck .
Frets divide  the गर्दन into फिक्स्ड खण्ड at intervals सम्बन्धित to  a musical framework .
On instruments such as guitars , each fret represents one semitone in the standard western  प्रणाली जहाँ एक अष्टक is विभाजित into बारह  semitones .
Fret is often used as a verb , meaning  बस `` to दबायें bas the स्ट्रिंग पीछे a fret  . ''
Fretting often refers to the  frets and/or उनके प्रणाली of अवस्थिति  .
There was  खपत of दारू दोनो दौरान  and after prohibition .
The 18th  amendment निषिद्ध the उत्पादन , वितरण और बिक्री of alcoholic  beverages in the United States and was widely supported by the American public when it went into effect in 1920 .
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that  दारू थी the प्रमुख कारण of सबसे निजी और सोशल समस्याएं और निषेध थी देखी as the समाधान to the स्वदेश  's poverty , crime , violence , and other ills .
Upon ratification of the amendment ,  the प्रसिद्ध इंजीलवादी बिली संडे कहा कि `` the slums होगा जल्द be तभी a मेमोरी  .
We will turn our  जेलों into कारखानों और हमारी jails into storehouses और corncribs  . ''
(  compare christianity और  alcohol . )
चूंकि दारू थी to be बैन और चूंकि it थी देखी as the कारण  of most , if not all , crime , some communities sold their jails .
The nation was highly  आशावादी और the अग्रणी prohibitionist in the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस confidently asserted कि `` वहीँ is as much मौका of repealing the eighteenth amendment as वहीँ is लिये a हमिंगबर्ड to मक्खी to the ग्रह मंगल साथ the वॉशिंगटन स्मारक tied  to its tail.”
The metre ( meter  in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी ) , ( si ईकाई प्रतीक : m ; si आयाम प्रतीक : l ) , is the आधारभूत ईकाई of  length in the International System of Units ( SI ) .
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's equator to the North Pole ( at sea level ) , its  परिभाषा रै महरूम periodically परिष्कृत to प्रतिबिंबित growing ज्ञान  of metrology .
Since 1983 , it has been defined as `` the length  of the पाथ travelled by लाइट in वैक्यूम दौरान a समय अंतराल of 1/299,792,458 of a  second . ''
geologists exploring jurassic sedimentary रॉक्स  in Makhtesh Gadol , Negev Desert , Israel
Geologists explaining the importance  of volcanic राख परतों to विद्यार्थी on फ़ील्ड  in Iceland
A geologist is a  वैज्ञानिक जो अध्ययन the ठोस और द्रव पदार्थ कि constitutes the धरती as  well as the processes and history that has shaped it .
geologists प्रायः engage in  studying geology .
Geologists  , अध्ययन अधिक of an लागू विज्ञान than a सैद्धांतिक एक , जरूर दृष्टिकोण भूविज्ञान using भौतिकी , रसायन  and biology as well as other sciences .
Geologists , compared to  वैज्ञानिकों सगाई in अन्य फ़ील्ड , हैं generally अधिक उजागर to the बाहरी than रहकर in  laboratories ; although some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab .
geologists हैं सगाई in खोजी लिये खनन कंपनियाँ in ढूंढें of धातुओं  , oils , and other Earth resources .
They are also in the forefront of  प्राकृतिक जोखिमों और आपदाओं चेतावनी और शमन , अध्ययन भूकंप , volcanic कार्यकलाप , tsunamis , मौसम तूफ़ान , और the जैसे ; उनके अध्ययन हैं प्रयुक्त to warn  the general public of the occurrence of these events .
Currently ,  geologists हैं भी सगाई in the चर्चा of जलवायु बदलें , as वे पढ़ाई  the history and evidence for this Earth process .
Below  is a व्यापक ड्रिल और tap आकार चार्ट लिये सब drills , इम्पीरियल और मीट्रिक  , and taps up to 36.5 mm .
Modern vacuum  tubes , ज़्यादातर miniature स्टाइल
In  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स , a वैक्यूम ट्यूब , इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्यूब ( in उत्तर अमेरिका ) , तापायनिक वाल्व , ट्यूब , or वाल्व is a यंत्र controlling  electric current through a vacuum in a sealed container .
The container is often thin transparent  कांच in a roughly बेलनाकार आकार .
The simplest vacuum tube , the diode , is  essentially an incandescent लाइट बल्ब साथ an added एलेक्ट्रोड अंदर  .
When the bulb 's  फिलामेंट is heated white-hot , electrons हैं `` boiled '' बंद इसके सतह  and into the vacuum inside the bulb .
If the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` anode '' -- is made more positive than the hot filament  , a सीधा वर्तमान बहती through the वैक्यूम to the एलेक्ट्रोड ( a demonstration of the एडिसन प्रभाव ) .
as the वर्तमान तभी बहती in एक दिशा , it makes it संभावित to बदलें an प्रत्यावर्ती  current applied to the filament to direct current .
The  परिचय of a तीसरा एलेक्ट्रोड , a ग्रिड between the  filament and the plate , yields another function .
A voltage  लागू to the ग्रिड नियंत्रण the वर्तमान बहती इससे the फिलामेंट  to the plate .
यूँ , it allows the यंत्र to  be used as an electronic amplifier .
Vacuum tubes are thus used for rectification ,  प्रवर्धन , switching , or समान प्रसंस्करण or सृष्टि of विद्युत सिग्नल  .
The vast majority  of आधुनिक दिन tubes consist of a sealed संग्राहक साथ a वैक्यूम अंदर , और essentially rely on तापायनिक उत्सर्जन of electrons  from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament .
Some  अपवाद to इस हैं dealt साथ in the खण्ड  about gas-filled tubes below .
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology ,  जिससे drove the विस्तार और व्यावसायीकरण of रेडियो प्रसारण , टेलीविज़न , रडार , ध्वनि reinforcement , ध्वनि रिकॉर्डिंग और जनन ,  large telephone networks , analog and digital computers , and industrial process control .
Although some applications had counterparts using  पहले technologies ऐसे as the चिंगारी गैप ट्रांसमीटर or mechanical कंप्यूटर , it थी the आविष्कार of the वैक्यूम ट्यूब साथ तीन electrodes ( पुकारा a ट्रायोड ) और इसके काबिलियत of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक प्रवर्धन कि बना ये technologies  widespread and practical .
In most applications , solid-state devices such  as transistors और अन्य सेमीकंडक्टर डिवाइस have replaced  tubes .
solid-state डिवाइस पिछला longer और हैं छोटी , अधिक कुशल , अधिक  reliable , and cheaper than tubes .
Tubes can be fragile , sometimes generate significant unwanted heat , and can take many  seconds—many मिनट्स in नाजुक applications—after powering on to गरम to a तापमान जहाँ वे perform  within operational tolerance .
however , tubes स्टिल ढूँढें उपयोग जहाँ solid-state डिवाइस have नहीं महरूम विकसित , हैं अव्यवहारिक , or जहाँ  a tube has superior performance , as with some devices in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters .
Tubes are  स्टिल उत्पादित लिये ऐसे अनुप्रयोग  .
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed by the  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक पल्स उत्पादित by नाभिकीय विस्फोट और geomagnetic तूफ़ान उत्पादित by दानव सौर  flares .
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured sweets ,  फिलहाल उत्पादित और marketed by the wm . wrigley jr. कम्पनी , a प्रभाग  of Mars , Inc .
They  have मुश्किल शुगर शेल जिससे  carry the letter S .
The  अंदर is मुख्यतः शुगर , मकई सिरप , और hydrogenated ताड़ कर्नेल आयल साथ  with fruit juice , citric acid , and natural and artificial flavours .
the confectionery रै महरूम बेची in a किस्में of  flavour collections , such as Tropical and Wild Berry .
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill , ( 30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965 ) was a British politician who was the Prime  मंत्री of the संयुक्त किंगडम इससे 1940 to 1945 और again इससे  1951 to 1955 .
Widely regarded as one of the greatest wartime leaders of the 20th century ,  चर्चिल थी भी an अधिकारी in the अंग्रेजों फौज , a इतिहासकार , a लेखक  , and an artist .
he is the तभी अंग्रेजों प्रधान मंत्री in इतिहास to have प्राप्त  the Nobel Prize in Literature , and was also the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States .
Churchill was born into an  वैभवशाली परिवार as the पोता of the  7th Duke of Marlborough .
His father , Lord  randolph चर्चिल , थी a charismatic राजनेता जो परोसा as चांसलर of the exchequer  ; his mother , Jennie Jerome , was an American socialite .
As a young army  अधिकारी , he देखी कार्रवाई in अंग्रेजों इण्डिया , the सूडान , और  the Second Boer War .
He gained fame as a war  correspondent और लिखा किताबे परिचय उसके अभियान  .
At the forefront of politics for  पचास सालो , he आयोजित अनेक राजनैतिक और कैबिनेट स्थितियाँ  .
Before the First World War , he  परोसा as अध्यक्ष of the फलक of व्यापार , घर सचिव , और पहला रब of the admiralty as  part of the Asquith Liberal government .
दौरान the युद्ध , he जारी as पहला रब of the admiralty जबतक  the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign caused his departure from government .
he तब briefly resumed क्रियाशील फौज सेवा on the पश्चिमी सामने as कमांडर of the 6th बटालियन of the royal  Scots Fusiliers .
He returned to government as Minister of Munitions , Secretary  of राज्य लिये युद्ध , और सचिव of राज्य लिये एयर  .
After the War , Churchill served as  चांसलर of the exchequer in the रूढ़िवादी ( baldwin ) सरकारी of 1924–29 , controversially returning the पाउंड स्टर्लिंग in 1925 to the सुनहरा  standard at its pre-war parity , a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy .
Also controversial was his opposition  to increased घर नियम लिये इण्डिया और उसके प्रतिरोध to the 1936 abdication of  Edward VIII .
Out of office and politically `` in the  wilderness '' दौरान the 1930s , चर्चिल took the सीसे  in warning about Nazi Germany and in campaigning for rearmament .
On the outbreak of the  दूसरी संसार युद्ध , he थी again नियुक्त पहला  Lord of the Admiralty .
following the इस्तीफा of नेविली चेम्बरलेन on 10  May 1940 , Churchill became Prime Minister .
His steadfast refusal to  consider शिकस्त , आत्मसमर्पण , or a सुलह सलाम helped inspire अंग्रेजों प्रतिरोध , विशेषकर दौरान the मुश्किल जल्दी दिनों of the युद्ध जब ब्रिटेन stood अलोन among यूरोपीय  countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler .
Churchill was particularly noted for his  भाषणों और रेडियो प्रसारण , जिससे helped inspire the अंग्रेजों लोगों  .
He led  ब्रिटेन as प्रधान मंत्री जबतक विजय over  Nazi Germany had been secured .
बाद the रूढ़िवादी पार्टी खोया the 1945 चुनाव ,  he became Leader of the Opposition to the Labour ( Attlee ) government .
After winning the 1951 election , he again  became प्रधान मंत्री , पहले retiring in 1955  .
Upon his death , Elizabeth II granted him the honour of a state funeral ,  जिससे देखी एक of the largest सभाओं of संसार कूटनीतिज्ञों in इतिहास  .
Named the  महानतम briton of सब समय in a 2002 पोल , चर्चिल is widely regarded as होने among the सबसे  influential people in British history .
Ruby Gloom  is an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ आधारित  on an apparel franchise .
The show is produced by  nelvana और began airing on अक्तूबर 13 , 2006 in  Canada on the network YTV .
It stars the voices of Sarah  gadon , एमिली हैम्पशायर , और पीटर keleghan  .
the घाट फ़ोकस is a कॉम्पैक्ट car ( c-segment in यूरोपीय  ) manufactured by the Ford Motor Company since 1998 .
Ford began sales  of the फ़ोकस to यूरोपीय in जुलाई 1998 और in  North America during 1999 for the 2000 model year .
In Europe , South America , North America and South Africa , the Focus replaced  the विभिन्न संस्करण of the घाट अनुरक्षण बेची in those बाज़ार  .
in एशिया और australasia , it  replaced the Ford Laser .
As of the first  हाफ of 2012 , the फ़ोकस surpassed the टोयोटा कोरोला to become the संसार 's बेहतरीन  selling automobile nameplate .
The Focus has been  माना एक of the 50 महानतम गाड़ियाँ of the पास्ट पचास  years by British magazine CAR .
An agar plate -- an  उदाहरण of a बैक्टीरियल विकास  medium .
specifically , it is a streak थाली ; the नारंगी लाइनों और dots  are formed by bacterial colonies .
A growth medium or culture  मीडियम is a द्रव or gel designed to support the विकास of microorganisms  or cells , or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens .
There are  अलग प्रकार of मीडिया लिये growing अलग  types of cells .
There are two major types of growth media : those  प्रयुक्त लिये कोशिका संस्कृति , जिससे उपयोग विशिष्ट कोशिका प्रकार निकला इससे पौधे or पशु , और microbiological संस्कृति , जिससे हैं प्रयुक्त लिये growing microorganisms , ऐसे  as bacteria or yeast .
The most common growth media for microorganisms are  nutrient broths और आगर प्लेटों ; specialized मीडिया हैं sometimes  required for microorganism and cell culture growth .
Some organisms , termed fastidious organisms , require  specialized environments due to जटिल nutritional  requirements .
Viruses , for example , are obligate intracellular  परजीवी और आवश्यकता a विकास  medium containing living cells .
A talent agent , or booking agent , is a person who finds jobs for actors , authors , film directors ,  संगीतकारों , मॉडल , निर्माता , पेशेवर एथलीट , लेखक और  other people in various entertainment businesses .
An agent also  defends , supports और promotes the ब्याज of  his/her clients .
एजेंटों can नहीं उपज उनके  own shows due to conflict of interest .
A talent agent  जरूर be परिचित साथ उनके  clients .
An agent has to know  कया दयालु of कार्य the क्लाएंट can और can नहीं do in अनुक्रम  to match them with various jobs .
Having  an एजेंट is नहीं जरूरी , लकिन करता  help the artist in getting jobs .
In many  मामले ढलाई निर्देशकों , or अन्य व्यवसायों , go  to talent agencies to find artists they are looking for .
The agent is paid a  प्रतिशत of the स्टार 's आय ( typically 10  % ) .
Agents  sometimes होगा be referred to as `` 10  percenters . ''
There  हैं अलग regulations कि govern अलग प्रकार of एजेंटों कि हैं स्थापित by कलाकार 's संघ और the  legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates .
There are also  पेशेवर संगठन कि अनुज्ञा हुनर  agencies .
चूंकि the मनाही in viewership in थिएटर , इससे the 1950s to 1960s , इस caused a स्मारकीय  shift in how studios would produce films and thus reducing the cost of exclusive and expensive actors .
Actors and actresses were working for the  studios लकिन यहूद नहीं स्वामित्व by एक प्रमुख स्टुडियो एंटिटी और so यहूद  able to work on within their time and with other studios .
Because of this , agents  यहूद अभी देखी as a necessity बजाय of an विकल्प  .
Agents now became third parties that  negotiated between studios और क्लाइंट , इस बनाना उनके सेवाएं  imperative between each party .
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts , all talent agencies must be licensed under special  भाग of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया मजदूर कोड , जिससे काल्स an एजेंट a `` व्यक्ति or निगम जो engages in the occupation of procuring , offering , होनहार  , or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists . ''
Mars has two known  moons , phobos और deimos , जिससे  are thought to be captured asteroids .
दोनो satellites यहूद खोजा in 1877 by asaph हॉल और हैं नामित बाद the वर्ण phobos ( panic/fear ) और deimos  ( terror/dread ) who , in Greek mythology , accompanied their father Ares , god of war , into battle .
Ares was  ज्ञात as मंगल to the  Romans .
It is possible  कि मंगल may have moons छोटी than 50 - 100 मीटर और a धूल रिंग between  Phobos and Deimos may be present but none have been discovered .
In law enforcement parlance ,  the पद हत्या किताब refers to the मामला संचिका of a हत्या छानबीन  .
Typically , murder books include crime  झाँकी छायाचित्र और sketches , पोस्टमार्टम और forensic रिपोर्ट्स , transcripts of  investigators ' notes and witness interviews .
The murder book encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder  छानबीन , इससे the समय the हत्या is पहला reported through the गिरफ़्तार of a suspect  .
Law enforcement agencies typically guard murder books carefully , and it is unusual for  नागरिकों to be दिए आज़ाद अभिगम to ये kinds of रिकॉर्ड , विशेषकर लिये अनसुलझा  cases .
a melon  baller
Melon balls are balls of melon made using a melon baller  कि varies इससे around 1 centimeter to 3 सेंटीमीटर ( परिचय 3/8 इंच  to 1 inch ) .
They are generally  प्रयुक्त in फल सलाद .
A KSA , or Knowledge , Skills , and  abilities , is a श्रेणी of कथा कथन कि हैं जरूरी जब applying to संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी  job openings .
KSAs are used to determine , along with resumes , who the  बेहतरीन आवेदकों हैं जब अनेक उम्मीदवार qualify  for a job .
The knowledge ,  कौशल और abilities ( ksas ) जरुरी लिये the कामयाब प्रदर्शन of a स्थिति हैं contained on प्रत्येक जॉब रिक्ति  announcement .
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked  संघीय एजेंसियों to रोकें requiring जॉब आवेदकों to भरण आउट the questionnaires , to be phased आउट भीतर  a year .
KSAs are brief  और केन्द्रित essays परिचय एक 's करियर और शैक्षणिक पृष्ठभूमि कि presumably qualify  one to perform the duties of the position being applied for .
A knowledge , skills , and  abilities ( ksa ) is a संक्षिप्त निबन्ध परिचय एक 's हुनर और विशेषज्ञता और सम्बन्धित  experiences ( work , education , volunteer ) and accomplishments .
A series of KSA statements are usually required when applying for most  संघीय सरकारी और कुछ राज्य और नगर सरकारी कार्य .
KSAs are used as a yardstick to assess the  सामर्थ्य of a prospective आवेदक in शर्तें of संभावित क्षमता to perform  the duties of the job .
Most  सरकारी भर्ती officials dekh लिये a छोटी , कुरकुरे और  clear KSA that emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in previous work .
KSA  कथन हैं भी ज्ञात as  Evaluation Factors .
Other agencies sometimes call them ``  दरजा कारकों '' , `` विशेषता रैंकिंग कारकों '' , `` ज्ञान , abilities , कौशल  and Other Characteristics '' , or `` Job Elements '' .
The  नाम can be बस a नाम लकिन प्रायः it  influences content and length of the essay .
Every agency has its own regulations but most of the time the  प्रत्येक ksa फ़ैक्टर चाहिए be 1/2 to 11⁄2 पृष्ठों  long .
the नीचे परिभाषाएं हैं पारिभाषित  by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management :
Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities (  ksas ) - the गुण जरूरी to perform a जॉब और हैं generally demonstrated through qualifying सेवा , शिक्षा , or प्रशिक्षण  .
Knowledge - Is a body of  सूचना लागू सीधे to the प्रदर्शन  of a function .
Skill - Is an  observable competence to perform a सीखे  psychomotor act .
Ability - Is  competence to perform an observable बर्ताव or a बर्ताव कि परिणाम  in an observable product .
The scoring of KSA essays is  आधारित on a स्केल of इससे एक to 100 .
जॉब आवेदकों जरूर स्कोर ऊपर 70 to be  considered for the position .
High scores are derived through answering the KSA  सवाल as specifically as संभावित , providing उदाहरण इससे पिछला नियुक्ति or प्रशिक्षण कि clearly  demonstrate you meet the qualifications .
When applying to federal government positions  , a संघीय पुनरारंभ is प्रायः जरूरी in जोड to ksa कथन  .
सही
Whole  दाने हैं खाद्यान्न दाने कि contain खाद्यान्न रोगाणु , भ्रूणपोष ,  and bran , in contrast to refined grains , which retain only the endosperm .
Common  पूरे दाने include:
गेहूं
oat
Barley -  hulled और dehulled ( नहीं पर्ल  )
मक्का
भूरा राइस
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
sprouted दाने
buckwheat
आम पूरे अनाज उत्पाद  include:
Whole  गेहूं आटा
Whole  गेहूं ब्रैड
Whole  गेहूं पास्ता
Rolled  जई or oat groats
triticale आटा
पॉपकॉर्न
teff आटा
Common  परिष्कृत non-whole अनाज  products include:
Love  सदा is the डेब्यू एल्बम of अमरीकी r & b duo k-ci &  JoJo , released on June 17 , 1997 , by MCA Records .
It was recorded at  विभिन्न studios in नई यॉर्क और the लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल in 1996 और  1997 .
It was produced by JoJo and several others ,  सहित devante झूले , जेम्स mtume , और जेफ़  Redd .
The duo were originally a part of  jodeci पहले इस एल्बम  .
The album peaked at sixth on the  us बिलबोर्ड 200 और भी appeared on  international charts .
The single `` All My Life  `` charted क्रमांक एक in अनेक देशों , और सब चार of the एल्बम 's singles peaked ऊपर the शीर्ष 25 in the us hot r & b/hip-hop  Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles .
Love  सदा थी प्राप्त favorably by आलोचकों , जो praised the भाइयो  ' singing ability and the production .
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording  उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ) और सुनहरा by म्यूज़िक कनाडा और ifpi  Sweden .
As of June  1999 it था बेची 2.9 लाख  copies in the United States .
A variable-rate mortgage , adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ) , or tracker mortgage is a mortgage loan  साथ the ब्याज रेट on the नोट periodically समायोजित आधारित on an अनुक्रमणिका जिससे reflects the लागत to the lender of उधार  on the credit markets .
The loan may be offered at the  lender 's मानक परिवर्तनीय चूहाe/ आधार  rate .
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the  underlying अनुक्रमणिका , लकिन जहाँ the lender offers no विशिष्ट कड़ी to the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका  the rate can be changed at the lender 's discretion .
The term ``  variable-rate बंधक '' is सबसे आम बाहर the संयुक्त राज्य , whilst in the संयुक्त राज्य , `` adjustable-rate बंधक '' is सबसे आम , और  implies a mortgage regulated by the Federal government , with caps on charges .
In many countries  , समायोज्य रेट mortgages हैं the norm , और in ऐसे स्थान  , may simply be referred to as mortgages .
Among the  सबसे आम indices हैं the दरों on 1-year constant-maturity राजकोष ( cmt ) प्रतिभूति , the लागत  of Funds Index ( COFI ) , and the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) .
A few  lenders उपयोग उनके अपना लागत of निधि as an  index , rather than using other indices .
This  is किया to ensure a स्थिर हाशिया लिये the lender , जिनकी अपना लागत of funding  will usually be related to the index .
नतीजतन , भुगतान बना by the borrower may बदलें over समय  with the changing interest rate ( alternatively , the term of the loan may change ) .
This is  पृथक इससे the ग्रैजुएट भुगतान बंधक , जिससे offers बदलना भुगतान  amounts but a fixed interest rate .
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest  तभी बंधक , the फिक्स्ड रेट बंधक , the ऋणात्मक amortization बंधक , और the  balloon payment mortgage .
Adjustable rates transfer  भाग of the ब्याज रेट रिस्क इससे  the lender to the borrower .
They can be used where  मनमौजी ब्याज दरों मेक फिक्स्ड रेट लोन मुश्किल to obtain  .
The borrower  लाभ if the ब्याज रेट जलप्रपात लकिन loses if  the interest rate increases .
The borrower  लाभ इससे घटाया मार्जिन to the underlying लागत of उधार compared  to fixed or capped rate mortgages .
The assassination of Robert  फ्रांसिस `` bobby '' कैनेडी , a संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर और bhai of assassinated अध्यक्ष जॉन fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी , took प्लेस shortly बाद मध्यरात्रि on जून 5 , 1968 , in लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , during the campaign season for the United States Presidential election , 1968 .
After winning the California and South Dakota primary elections for the Democratic nomination for President of  the संयुक्त राज्य , कैनेडी थी शॉट as he walked through the रसोईघर of the दूत होटल और died in the शुभ सामरी हॉस्पिटल  twenty-six hours later .
Sirhan Sirhan , a  24-year-old फिलीस्तीनी / जार्डन अप्रवासी , थी convicted of कैनेडी  's murder and is serving a life sentence for the crime .
Sirhan 's  वकील have released कथन claiming प्रमाण  that he was framed .
The shooting was recorded on  ऑडियो टेप by a freelance समाचारपत्र रिपोर्टर , और  the aftermath was captured on film .
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at St. Patrick 's Cathedral in New  यॉर्क लिये दो दिनों पहले a अंत्येष्टि द्रव्यमान  was held on June 8 .
His body was interred  निकट उसके bhai जॉन at आर्लिंगटन नेशनल  Cemetery .
His death prompted the  सुरक्षा of अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार by the संयुक्त राज्य रहस्य  Service .
Hubert Humphrey  गई on to जीत the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी , लकिन ultimately  narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon .
As with his brother  जोकर 's मौत , bobby 's हत्या और the हालातों surrounding it have शाखित a किस्में  of conspiracy theories .
As of  2013 कैनेडी remains एक of तभी दो बैठे संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों  to be assassinated ( the other being Huey Long ) .
The Modern Age of Comic Books is an informal name for the  काल in the इतिहास of मुख्यधारा अमरीकी कॉमिक किताबे generally माना to पिछला इससे the mid-1980s  until present day .
In this period , comic book characters generally became darker and more psychologically complex  , creators became better-known और क्रियाशील in बदलना the उद्योग , स्वतंत्र कॉमिक्स flourished , और larger प्रकाशन घरों  became more commercialized .
An alternate name  लिये इस काल is the अंधेरा आयु of कॉमिक किताबे , due to the लोकप्रियता और  artistic influence of grim titles , such as and Watchmen .
When Harry Met Sally ... is a 1989  अमरीकी रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा by नोरा ephron और निर्देशित  by Rob Reiner .
It stars  बिली क्रिस्टल as हैरी और मेग रयान as  Sally .
The story follows the title characters from  the समय वे मिलें बस पहले sharing a cross-country ड्राइव , through बारह सालो or so of मौका  encounters in New York City .
The film raises the question `` Can men and women ever just  be मित्रों ? '' और अग्रिम अनेक विचार परिचय संबंध कि became household अवधारणाओं , ऐसे as those  of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person '' .
the origins of the फिल्मी आए इससे reiner  's return to single life after a divorce .
An interview Ephron  conducted साथ reiner provided the आधार लिये हैरी  .
Sally was based  on ephron और कुछ of उसके मित्रों  .
Crystal  आए on फलक और बना उसके अपना योगदान to  the screenplay , making Harry funnier .
ephron supplied the ढांचा of the फिल्मी साथ much of the संवाद आधारित on  the real-life friendship between Reiner and Crystal .
The soundtrack consists of standards performed by  हैरी connick , jr. , साथ a बिग बैंड और ऑर्केस्ट्रा arranged  by Marc Shaiman .
connick जीती उसके पहला ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन  Jazz Male Vocal Performance .
Columbia Pictures released the film  using the `` मंच '' तकनीक , जिससे शामिल खोलने it in a few चुनें शहरों , letting धनात्मक शब्द of मुँह generate ब्याज , और तब धीरे expanding वितरण  over subsequent weeks .
When Harry Met Sally  ... grossed a कुल of us $ 92 .8 लाख in उत्तर  America .
Ephron received a British Academy Film Award  , an ऑस्कर नामांकन , और a लेखक गिल्ड of अमेरिका पुरस्कार नामांकन  for her screenplay .
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years ... 100 Laughs list of the top  कॉमेडी films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और क्रमांक 60 on ब्रावो 's `` 100 funniest फिल्मों ''  .
In early 2004 , the film was adapted  लिये the स्टेज in a उत्पादन अभिनीत ल्यूक  Perry and Alyson Hannigan .
200px
हैमबर्गर हेल्पर is a लकीर of packaged खाना उत्पाद primarily consisting  of boxed pasta bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings .
The contents of each  बक्सा हैं संयुक्त साथ browned मैदान बीफ , जल और  milk to create a complete dish .
The product line also  सुविधाएँ उत्पाद साथ अन्य starches ऐसे as राइस or आलू बजाय  of pasta .
It is  बना by सामान्य  Mills .
Although the classic boxed Hamburger Helper  उत्पाद तभी सप्लाई the मंड मद और the सॉस पैकेट्स , कुछ किस्में of the उत्पाद  include ground beef .
These include a  frozen खाना लकीर , जिससे सुविधाएँ कुछ of the ब्रांड 's क्लासिक किस्में in a पूरा  meal kit form , with frozen ground beef and frozen sauce packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag .
There is also an `` instant '' version of Hamburger  हेल्पर containing निर्जलित मांस , नूडल्स और seasonings in a छोटी थैली , requiring तभी जल  to be added .
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping  हाथ '' , an anthropomorphic एनिमेटेड , चार fingered left-hand दस्ताने , जिससे appears in the उत्पाद 's टेलीविज़न  commercials and on the packages .
Ceres as seen  साथ the हबल स्पेस दूरदर्शी  .
It is  the तभी बौना ग्रह in  the asteroid belt .
Pluto in approximate true colour  आधारित on हबल स्पेस दूरदर्शी ऐल्बीडो आंकड़ा
Haumea with its  moons , hiʻiaka और namaka ( कलाकार 's धारणा  )
Makemake  ( कलाकार 's धारणा  )
eris और इसके चंद्रमा dysnomia as देखी साथ the  Hubble Space Telescope
A dwarf planet is a planetary-mass  ऑब्जेक्ट कि is neither a ग्रह nor a उपग्रह  .
More explicitly , the International Astronomical Union  ( iau ) defines a बौना ग्रह as a celestial देह in सीधा कक्षा of the सूर्य कि is विशाल पर्याप्त लिये इसके आकार to be नियंत्रित by gravitation , लकिन  that unlike a planet has not cleared its orbital region of other objects .
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies orbiting the Sun , brought about by an  बढ़ाएँ in discoveries of trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ कि rivaled प्लूटो in आकार , और आखिरकार precipitated by the डिस्कवरी of an भी अधिक विशाल  object , Eris .
This classification states that bodies large enough to  have साफ the neighbourhood of उनके कक्षा हैं पारिभाषित as ग्रह , जबकि those कि हैं नहीं विशाल पर्याप्त to be rounded by उनके अपना गम्भीरता  are defined as small Solar System bodies .
बौना ग्रह आइये  in between .
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the IAU has  महरूम दोनो praised और criticized ; it थी कहा to be the `` सही निर्णय '' by माइक भूरा , जो खोजा और अन्य नई बौना ग्रह , लकिन रै महरूम अस्वीकृत by एलन stern , जो था coined the पद बौना ग्रह  in 1990 .
The  iau फिलहाल recognizes पाँच बौना ग्रह  in the Solar System : , Pluto , , , and .
However , only two of these bodies ,  ceres और प्लूटो , have महरूम observed in पर्याप्त विवरण to demonstrate कि वे अनुरूप the परिभाषा  .
Eris has  महरूम स्वीकृत as a बौना ग्रह क्युकी it is अधिक  massive than Pluto .
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with an absolute magnitude brighter than +1 ( and hence a  व्यास of ≥838 km assuming a ज्यामितीय ऐल्बीडो of ≤1 ) हैं to be नामित अंतर्गत the assumption कि वे हैं बौना  planets .
The only two  ऐसे वस्तुएँ ज्ञात at the समय , माकेमाके और हउमेया , गई through इस नामकरण  procedure and were declared to be dwarf planets .
It is  suspected कि another सौ or so ज्ञात वस्तुएँ in the  Solar System are dwarf planets .
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire region  ज्ञात as the kuiper बेल्ट is छान , और कि the क्रमांक may exceed 10,000 जब वस्तुएँ बिखरे बाहर the kuiper बेल्ट हैं माना  .
Individual astronomers recognize several of these , and in August 2011 Mike Brown  प्रकाशित a सूची of 390 प्रत्याशी वस्तुएँ , ranging इससे `` nearly निश्चित '' to `` संभावित '' बौना  planets . '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the five accepted by the IAU plus , ,  , और – as `` वस्तुतः निश्चित '' , साथ another दो दर्जन अत्यधिक संभावित , और वहीँ हैं  probably a hundred or so such objects in total .
The classification of bodies in other planetary systems with the  विशेषताएँ of बौना ग्रह रै नहीं महरूम  addressed .
A debit card ( also known as  a बैंको कार्ड or जाँच कार्ड ) is a प्लास्टिक भुगतान कार्ड कि provides the cardholder इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अभिगम  to his or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution .
Some cards have a stored value with which a payment is  बना , जबकि सबसे रिले a संदेश to the cardholder 's बैंको to withdraw निधि इससे  a payee 's designated bank account .
The card ,  जहाँ स्वीकृत , can be प्रयुक्त बजाय of नकदी जब बनाना  purchases .
In some cases , the primary account  क्रमांक is आबंटित exclusively लिये उपयोग on the अंतरजाल और वहीँ  is no physical card .
In many countries ,  the उपयोग of डेबिट ताश रै become so फैली कि उनके आवाज़ रै  overtaken or entirely replaced cheques and , in some instances , cash transactions .
The development of debit cards , unlike credit cards and charge  ताश , रै generally महरूम देश विशिष्ट resulting in a क्रमांक of अलग प्रणालियों around the संसार , जिससे यहूद प्रायः असंगत  .
Since the mid-2000s , a number of initiatives have allowed debit cards issued in one  देश to be प्रयुक्त in अन्य देशों और अनुमत उनके उपयोग लिये अंतरजाल और फोन  purchases .
Unlike credit and charge cards , payments using a debit card are immediately transferred  इससे the cardholder 's designated बैंको खाता , बजाय of उन्हें paying the धन वापस at a बाद  date .
Debit cards usually also allow for instant withdrawal  of नकदी , एक्टिंग as the एटीएम कार्ड लिये withdrawing  cash .
Merchants may also offer cashback  सुविधाएं to ग्राहक , जहाँ a ग्राहक can withdraw नकदी साथ साथ उनके खरीदें  .
Francois Henri ``  जोकर '' lalanne ( सितंबर 26 , 1914 - जनवरी 23 , 2011 ) थी an अमरीकी फ़िटनेस , कसरत , और nutritional विशेषज्ञ और प्रेरक स्पीकर जो is sometimes पुकारा ``  the godfather of fitness '' and the `` first fitness superhero . ''
He  वर्णित खुद as होने a `` sugarholic '' और a ``  junk food junkie '' until he was 15 .
He also had behavioral problems , but ``  turned उसके जीवन around '' बाद सुनना to a पब्लिक लेक्चर  by Paul Bragg , a well-known nutrition speaker .
During his career , he came to believe that the country 's overall health depended on the  स्वास्थ्य of इसके जनसांख्यिकी , लिखने कि `` शारीरिक संस्कृति और पोषण — is the मोक्ष  of America . ''
Decades before health and  फ़िटनेस began होने प्रचारित by हस्तियाँ जैसे जेन फोंडा और रिचर्ड सीमन्स , lalanne थी already widely पहचाना लिये सरेआम उपदेश the स्वास्थ्य लाभ of नियमित  exercise and a good diet .
He  प्रकाशित numerous किताबे on फ़िटनेस और hosted  a fitness television show between 1953 and 1985 .
As early  as 1936 , at आयु 21 , he खोली एक of the स्वदेश 's पहला  fitness gyms in Oakland , California , which became a prototype for dozens of similar gyms using his name .
One of his 1950s television exercise  कार्यक्रम थी aimed toward महिलाओं , जिसको he भी प्रोत्साहित to जुड़ें उसके  health clubs .
He invented a number of  कसरत मशीने , सहित leg-extension और चरखी डिवाइस  .
Besides producing his own series of videos , he coached the elderly and  निष्क्रिय नहीं to forgo कसरत , believing it होता enable उन्हें to बढ़ाएँ  their strength .
LaLanne also gained  मान्यता लिये उसके कामयाबी as a bodybuilder ,  as well as for his prodigious feats of strength .
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated ,  `` कि जोकर lalanne 's an एनिमल ! , '' बाद lalanne , at 54  , beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest .
On  the अवसर of lalanne 's मौत , श्वार्ज़नेगर credited lalanne लिये होने `` an apostle लिये फ़िटनेस '' by प्रेरणादायी `` अरबों सब over the संसार to सजीव healthier  lives , '' and , as governor of California , had earlier placed him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness .
Steve Reeves  credited lalanne as उसके प्रेरणा to निर्माण उसके muscular physique  while keeping a slim waist .
He was inducted to the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल of कीर्ति और रै a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति  .
Air forces of most  of the देशों उपयोग प्रणाली समान to सेना  .
However , the RAF and the air forces of many  राष्ट्रमंडल देशों , or those formerly अंतर्गत a अंग्रेजों influence , उपयोग a अलग नियत of बाँधने loosely आधारित on नवल समतुल्यता ; लेफ्टिनेंट , कमांडर , कप्तान और commodore हैं prefixed लिये एयर फ़ोर्स  use with Flight , Wing , Group and Air , respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to command ) .
Penélope Cruz Sánchez ( ;  born अप्रैल 28 , 1974 ) is a स्पेनी अभिनेत्री  .
Signed by an agent at age 15 , she made  उसके एक्टिंग डेब्यू at 16 on टेलीविज़न और उसके विशेषता फिल्मी डेब्यू the following साल in jamón , jamón ( 1992 ) , to  critical acclaim .
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and  2000s शामिल खोलें अपना आँखें ( 1997 ) , the hi-lo देश ( 1999 ) , the लड़की of अपना  Dreams ( 2000 ) and Woman on Top ( 2000 ) .
Cruz achieved recognition for  उसके सीसे भूमिकाएँ in the 2001 films वैनिला आसमान और  Blow .
She has since built a successful  करियर , appearing in films इससे a चौड़ी दायरा of जाति , सहित the कॉमेडी waking up in रेनो ( 2002 ) , the थ्रिलर  Gothika ( 2003 ) , the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ) , and the action adventure Sahara ( 2005 ) .
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in  volver ( 2006 ) और नौ ( 2009 ) receiving सुनहरी ग्लोब और अकादमी  Award nominations for each .
वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री  in 2008 for Vicky Cristina Barcelona .
She was the first Spanish actress  in इतिहास to प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार और the पहला स्पेनी अभिनेत्री to प्राप्त a स्टार at the  Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Cruz has  modeled लिये कंपनियाँ ऐसे as आम , ralph लॉरेन  and L'Oréal .
Penélope and her younger sister Mónica  क्रूज़ have designed वस्तुएं लिये आम .
She has donated both  उसके समय और धन to धर्मार्थ  .
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India , where she spent one week working for Mother Teresa ; she donated her salary  इससे ' to सहायता निधि the लेट नन 's मिशन  .
A wax sculpture  of क्रूज़ होगा be लगाई in a प्रीमियर स्पॉट in the grevin मोम संग्रहालय in  Paris .
File Explorer , previously known as Windows Explorer , is a file manager  अनुप्रयोग और भी a नेविगेशन औजार कि is शामिल साथ रिलीज of the microsoft खिड़कियाँ  operating system from Windows 95 onwards .
it provides a आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस  for accessing the file systems .
It  is भी the घटक of the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली कि presents अनेक उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस वस्तुएं on the मॉनिटर  such as the taskbar and desktop .
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer running ( for example , the File | Run  कमांड in कार्य मैनेजर on nt-derived संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ होगा फलन बगैर it , as होगा कमांड typed  in a command prompt window ) .
Located in the C : \Windows directory ,  it is sometimes referred to as the खिड़कियाँ शेल , explorer.exe , or बस “explorer”  .
The Care Bears are characters  निर्मित by अमरीकी बधाई in 1981 लिये उपयोग on ग्रीटिंग  cards .
The original artwork for the cards was  चित्रित by कलाकार एलेना kucharik  .
In 1983 , Kenner turned the  परवाह bears into plush टेडी bears  .
The Care Bears appeared in their own TV  specials पुकारा the परवाह bears in the जमीन बगैर जज्बात ( 1983 ) और the परवाह bears बैटल the फ्रीज यंत्र  ( 1984 ) .
They also had their own television series from  1985 to 1988 , in जोड to तीन विशेषता films : the परवाह bears फिल्म ( 1985 ) , परवाह bears फिल्म  II : A New Generation ( 1986 ) , and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ) .
Each Care  भालू आता in a अलग रंग और रै a specialized तमगा  on its belly that represents its duty and personality .
इस तमगा थी ज्ञात as उनके ``  tummy symbol . ''
However , the  फिल्म परवाह bears : oopsy करता it ! renamed उन्हें `` पेट बैज  '' .
Adding to the Care Bear family are the `` Care Bear Cousins '' , which feature a  शेर , खरगोश , पेंगुइन , raccoon , और अन्य ऐसे पशु निर्मित in the वही स्टाइल as the टेडी bears  .
In 2002 ,  the bears यहूद reintroduced  with new toys .
Made by Play-Along Toys , the new toys offered features  ऐसे as illuminated bellies upon टच , एरोबिक  bears , and glow-in-the-dark bears .
As part of this comeback , the Bears have appeared in two  computer-animated फिल्मों : परवाह bears : यात्रा to joke-a-lot ( 2004 ) और the परवाह bears ' बिग काश फिल्म ( 2005  ) .
In 2007 , the franchise  मनाये इसके 25th वर्षगांठ ; another relaunch took प्लेस , as खूब  as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It ! .
In mid-2011 ,  ag घोषित a पुनरुद्धार tv एनिमेटेड श्रेणी titled `` परवाह bears :  Welcome to Care-a-Lot `` .
The  प्रीमियर of the श्रेणी utilizes `` 30  years of caring '' .
It  premiered on the हब on जून 2 ,  2012 .
As of 2013  , परवाह bears merchandise  is still being marketed .
During 2008 and 2009 , Canada 's Cookie Jar  समूह और फ़्रांस 's moonscoop समूह attempted to acquire the मताधिकार इससे agc , साथ no apparent  success .
अंतरराज्यीय 70 ( i-70 ) is an अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग in the संयुक्त राज्य कि रनों इससे  Interstate 15 near Cove Fort , Utah , to a Park and Ride near Baltimore , Maryland .
it थी the पहला अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग  project in the United States .
I-70  लगभग traces the पाथ of u.S. रूट 40 ( और भी the  old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains .
West of the Rockies  , the रूट of i-70 थी निकला इससे अनेक स्त्रोत  .
I-70 is the fifth longest  अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग , बाद i-90 , i-80 , i-40  , and I-10 .
The construction of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an  अभियान्त्रिकी आश्चर्य as the रूट गुजरता through the आइज़नहावर टनल , glenwood canyon , और the  San Rafael Swell .
The Eisenhower  टनल is the उच्चतम पाइंट साथ the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग  system with an elevation of .
the भाग of the अंतरराज्यीय in मिसौरी  and Kansas have laid claim to be the first interstate in the United States .
Though disputed , the Federal Highway Administration has claimed the section of I-70 through Glenwood  canyon , समाप्त in 1992 , थी the पिछला टुकड़ा of the अंतरराज्यीय  Highway system , as originally planned , to open to traffic .
फ़ोटो of 1999 कुल  eclipse
As seen from the Earth , a solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between the Sun and Earth  , और the चंद्रमा fully or partially ब्लॉक ( `` occults  `` ) the Sun .
इस can happen तभी at नई चंद्रमा , जब the सूर्य और the चंद्रमा हैं in संयोजन  as seen from Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy .
In a total eclipse , the disk of  the सूर्य is fully obscured by the चंद्रमा  .
In partial and  annular eclipses तभी भाग of the  Sun is obscured .
If the Moon were in a perfectly circular  कक्षा , a छोटी करीब to the धरती , और in the वही कक्षीय प्लेन , वहीँ होता be कुल सौर eclipses  every single month .
However , the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at  अधिक than 5 डिग्री to धरती 's कक्षा around the सूर्य ( देखिए ecliptic ) so इसके छाया  at new moon usually misses Earth .
Earth 's orbit is called the ecliptic plane as the  चंद्रमा 's कक्षा जरूर क्रॉस इस प्लेन in अनुक्रम लिये an ग्रहण ( दोनो सौर as खूब as चंद्र ) to occur  .
In addition ,  the चंद्रमा 's वास्तविक कक्षा is अंडाकार , प्रायः लेने it दूर पर्याप्त दूर इससे धरती कि इसके apparent आकार  is not large enough to block the Sun totally .
The  कक्षीय planes क्रॉस प्रत्येक साल at a लकीर of नोड resulting in at तनिक दो , और up to पाँच , सौर eclipses occurring  each year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses .
However , total solar eclipses are rare at any particular location because  totality exists तभी साथ a सीमित पाथ on धरती 's सतह traced by the चंद्रमा 's छाया or  umbra .
An eclipse is a  प्राकृतिक घटना  .
Nevertheless , in some ancient and modern cultures , solar  eclipses have महरूम attributed to अलौकिक कल्याणकारी or regarded as ख़राब  omens .
A total solar eclipse can be  frightening to लोगों जो हैं बेखबर of इसके खगोलीय स्पष्टीकरण , as the सूर्य seems to गायब  during the day and the sky darkens in a matter of minutes .
Because  it is खतरनाक to dekh सीधे at the सूर्य , observers चाहिए उपयोग खास नजर सुरक्षा or अप्रत्यक्ष देखने तकनीकों जब देखने  a partial eclipse , or the partial phases of a total eclipse .
It is safe to view the total phase of a  कुल सौर ग्रहण साथ the unaided नजर और बगैर सुरक्षा  , however .
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles  होगा सफर to रिमोट स्थितियाँ to observe or गवाह पूर्वानुमानित सेंट्रल सौर  eclipses .
A political party ( from , Genitive partis , `` part '' , `` portion '' ) is a political  संगठन कि typically seeks to influence , or entirely कंट्रोल , सरकारी नीति , प्रायः by nominating उम्मीदवार साथ लकीर राजनैतिक दृश्य और trying  to seat them in political office .
Parties  participate in चुनावी अभियान और शैक्षणिक मंगवाने or विरोध  actions .
Parties often espouse an ideology or vision ,  expressed in a पार्टी कार्यक्रम , bolstered by a लिखा मंच साथ विशिष्ट लक्ष्य , forming a गठबन्धन  among disparate interests .
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to  the genus mangifera , consisting of numerous तीव्र fruiting पेड़ in the flowering  plant family Anacardiaceae .
the आम is देशी to दक्षिण एशिया , इससे जहाँ it रै महरूम वितरित विश्वव्यापी  to become one of the most cultivated fruits in the tropics .
While other  mangifera प्रजाति ( e.g . घोड़ा आम , M. foetida ) हैं भी grown on a अधिक स्थानीयकृत आधार  , Mangifera indica – the 'common mango ' or 'Indian mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions .
It is the national  फल of इण्डिया , पाकिस्तानी और फिलीपीन  .
In  अनेक संस्कृतियों , इसके फल और पत्ते हैं ritually प्रयुक्त as पुष्पक सजावट at विवाह  , public celebrations and religious ceremonies .
Gill Arnette Byrd , < ref name > http :  //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/b/byrdgi00.htm ( born फ़रवरी 20 , 1961 in सैन फ्रांसिस्को , कैलिफ़ोर्निया ) is a पूर्व पेशेवर  American football player .
He was a two time Pro Bowl cornerback in  1991 और 1992 लिये the सैन डिएगो chargers बाद graduating इससे सैन जोस राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों  .
Byrd was inducted  into the chargers हॉल of कीर्ति  in 1998 .
He was an  all-city कार्यशील वापस और रक्षात्मक वापस at लोवेल ऊँची स्कूल ( सैन फ्रांसिस्को ) , helping to सीसे  the Cardinals to the city championship in his senior season of 1978 .
World map  प्रर्दशित the tropic  of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer , also referred  to as the उत्तरी tropic , is the वृत्त of अक्षांश on the धरती कि marks the सबसे  northerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at its zenith .
This  इवेंट occurs एकबार प्रति साल , at the समय of the जून संक्रांति , जब the  Northern Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent .
It currently ( Year 2013 ) lies  at 23° 26′ 15.143′′ उत्तर of the equator  .
Its Southern Hemisphere counterpart , marking  the सबसे southerly स्थिति at जिससे the सूर्य may appear सीधे ओवरहेड , is the tropic  of Capricorn .
These tropics  हैं दो of the पाँच प्रमुख उपाधि उपायों or प्रमुख वृत्त of अक्षांश कि चिह्नित मानचित्र of the धरती ,  besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator .
The positions of these circles of latitude (  अन्य than the equator ) हैं लिखवाई by the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष of रोटेशन  relative to the plane of its orbit .
DVD-Video is a  उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप प्रयुक्त to स्टोर डिजिटल वीडियो on dvd discs , और is फिलहाल the प्रबल  consumer video format in Asia , North America , Europe , and Australia .
discs using the dvd-video specification आवश्यकता a dvd ड्राइव और  an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed  वीडियो और ऑडियो of varying स्वरुप ( प्रायः multi-channel स्वरुप as वर्णित नीचे  ) .
Typically , the data rate for DVD  फिल्मों सीमाएँ इससे 3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s , और the बिट रेट is प्रायः अनुकूली  .
It was  पहला उपलब्धियाँ लिये खुदरा around  1997 .
the dvd-video specification थी निर्मित by dvd फ़ोरम और can be प्राप्त इससे dvd format/logo  Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000 .
The specification is not publicly  उपलब्धियाँ , क्युकी प्रत्येक सदस्य जरूर चिह्न a non-disclosure अनुबंध  .
Certain information in the  dvd किताब is मालिकाना और गोपनीय  .
In computing and specifically Internet , a leech is one who benefits , usually  deliberately , इससे अन्य ' सूचना or प्रयत्न लकिन करता नहीं प्रस्ताव anything in वापसी , or makes तभी टोकन offerings in an attempt to avoid होने  called a leech .
In economics , this type of  बर्ताव is पुकारा `` फ़्री सवारी '' और is संबद्ध साथ the  free rider problem .
Depending on context , leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources , but often instead to greedy use according to etiquette : to  wit , using too much of कया is freely दिए बगैर contributing a उचित राशि वापस to the जातियाँ कि  provides it .
The name derives from the  जोंक , an एनिमल कि झंझट रक्त और तब कोशिशें  to leave unnoticed .
Other terms are used , such as ``  freeloader '' , लकिन जोंक is the सबसे आम  .
The full eagle logo , used in  विभिन्न संस्करण इससे 1970 to 1993 .
The United States Postal Service ( USPS ) , also known as the Post Office and U.S.  मेल , is an स्वतंत्र एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय सरकारी जिम्मेदार लिये providing डाक सेवा in  the United States .
It is one of the few government  एजेंसियों explicitly प्राधिकृत  by the United States Constitution .
The USPS  traces इसके जड़ें to 1775 दौरान the दूसरी महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस , जहाँ  Benjamin Franklin was appointed the first postmaster general .
The cabinet-level Post  दफ्तर विभाग थी निर्मित in 1792 इससे फ्रैंकलिन 's आपरेशन और रूपांतरित into इसके वर्तमान  form in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act .
The USPS  employs over 574,000 मजदूर और operates  over 260,000 vehicles .
The USPS is the  ऑपरेटर of the largest गाडी बेड़े in the संसार  .
The USPS is legally  obligated to serve सब अमेरिकी , regardless of  geography , at uniform price and quality .
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` U.S. Mail '' and personal letterboxes in  the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन स्टिल competes विरूद्ध निजी पैकेज डिलीवरी सेवाएं , ऐसे as यूपीएस और fedex  .
The USPS has not directly received  taxpayer-dollars चूंकि the जल्दी 1980s साथ the नाबालिग एक्सेप्शन of subsidies लिये लागत संबद्ध  with the disabled and overseas voters .
चूंकि the 2006 all-time शिखर मेल आवाज़ , बाद जिससे कॉंग्रेस passed the डाक जवाबदेही और enhancement अधिनियम `` , ( जिससे mandated $ 5.5 अरब प्रति साल to be सशुल्क into an खाता to pre-fund retiree health-care , 75 सालो into the भविष्य  , a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ) , revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume , prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit .
Washington  , d.C. रै महरूम the पूंजी of the संयुक्त राज्य  since 1800 .
आठ अन्य शहरों have परोसा as the बैठक प्लेस लिये कॉंग्रेस और हैं इसलिए माना to have एकबार महरूम  the capital of the United States .
In  जोड , प्रत्येक of the 50 u.S. राज्य और the पाँच प्रिंसिपल territories  of the United States maintains its own capital .
राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड नियत  in a ring
The Princess cut is the  दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय काटें आकार लिये ईंट , अगला to a गोलाकार शानदार  .
The face-up  आकार of the राजकुमारी काटें is वर्गाकार or आयताकार और the प्रोफ़ाइल or side-on आकार  is similar to that of an inverted pyramid with four beveled sides .
The princess cut is a relatively new  डायमंड काटें , having महरूम निर्मित in  the 1960s .
It has gained  in लोकप्रियता in हाल सालो as a अधिक distinctive वैकल्पिक to the अधिक लोकप्रिय गोलाकार शानदार काटें , in जिससे the शीर्ष of डायमंड , पुकारा the क्राउन  , is cut with a round face-up shape and the bottom , called the pavilion , is shaped similar to a cone .
A princess cut with the same width as the diameter of a round  शानदार होगा तौल अधिक as it रै चार किनारे जिससे होता वरना have महरूम काटें बंद और rounded to रूप a गोलाकार शानदार  .
The  राजकुमारी काटें is sometimes referred to as a वर्गाकार  modified brilliant .
However  , जबकि displaying the वही ऊँची उपाधि of brilliance , इसके faceting स्टाइल is अद्वितीय और completely  different from that of a round brilliant .
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut , having a  step-modified `` double-french '' or `` क्रॉस '' काटें क्राउन और a श्रेणी of अद्वितीय , chevron-shaped facets in the मण्डप जिससे combine to दे a पृथक cross-shaped प्रतिबिंब जब the स्टोन is  viewed directly through the table .
Effectively , the  राजकुमारी काटें combines the ऊँची उपाधि of लाइट वापसी of a गोलाकार शानदार काटें साथ a distinctive  square or rectangular shape .
The square princess cut diamond is usually  थोड़ा सस्ता than गोलाकार शानदार काटें ईंट of the वही कैरेट वज़न क्युकी it retains परिचय 80 % of the अशिष्ट डायमंड  , as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough .
The ability to retain more  क्रिस्टल वज़न makes इस आकार लोकप्रिय amongst डायमंड  cutters .
Accredited  gem appraisers ( आगा ) और अमरीकी gem समाज प्रयोगशाला ( agsl ) और यूरोपीय gem laboratories-usa  ( EGL-USA ) are currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut .
There is no  सार्वभौमिक परिभाषा of कया माप मेक an आदर्श राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड और अनेक डायमंड निर्माताओं मार्केट  ideal diamonds with differing facet patterns and angles as `` ideal cut '' .
In contrast to the AGSL , AGA , and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has  stated कि वहीँ is नहीं पर्याप्त उद्योग सर्वसम्मति or अनुभवजन्य आंकड़ा to बताएँ काटें ग्रेडिंग मानकों लिये राजकुमारी काटें ईंट और to do so is at the रिस्क of उपभोक्ता जो may be धोखे  by diamonds accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades .
The name ``  राजकुमारी काटें '' थी originally प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन साथ another डायमंड काटें , वरना ज्ञात as the `` प्रोफ़ाइल '' काटें , designed by  Arpad Nagy , a London cutter , in 1961 .
The same  नाम थी बाद प्रयुक्त और बना लोकप्रिय by ygal पर्लमैन , betzalel ambar , और  Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979 .
A similar cut with only 49  facets , as opposed to the असली 58 facets of the राजकुमारी काटें , थी बाद ब्रांडेड the  `` Quadrillion '' and initially distributed by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles .
Three  सालो of ऑप्टिकल शोध yielded a वर्गाकार स्टोन साथ faceting  similar to that of a round brilliant cut diamond .
A  तुलना
the क्रमांक of chevrons can affect the overall आउटलुक  of a princess cut diamond .
This can usually  be संकल्पित by the तार आरेख कि is plotted in  diamond grading reports .
By adding more chevrons on the  मण्डप पक्ष of the डायमंड , the व्यक्तिगत facets of the डायमंड होगा अभी  be broken down into smaller facets .
As a result , it can  दे a राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड  a `` crushed ice '' look .
Vice versa , when a princess cut diamond  रै lesser chevrons , it tends to दे the डायमंड a चंकी आउटलुक  due to broader facets .
the घरेलू श्वान ( canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the धूसर  wolf ( Canis lupus ) , a member of the Canidae family of the mammalian order Carnivora .
The  पद `` घरेलू श्वान '' is generally प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो domesticated  and feral varieties .
The dog has been the first  एनिमल to be domesticated और रै महरूम the सबसे widely रखा working , शिकार , और पालतु  animal in human history .
The word `` dog '' may  भी औसत the पुरूष of a canine प्रजाति , as opposed to the शब्द `` कुतिया  '' for the female of the species .
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern  भेड़िया 's lineage around 100,000 सालो पहले लकिन , , the oldest चट्टान नमूनों genetically linked to the आधुनिक श्वान 's lineage तिथि  to approximately 33,000-36,000 years ago .
Dogs ' value to early human  hunter-gatherers led to उन्हें जल्दी बनने सर्वव्यापी आरपार  world cultures .
Dogs perform  अनेक भूमिकाएँ लिये लोगों , ऐसे as शिकार , herding , pulling loads , सुरक्षा , assisting पुलिस और सैन्य , companionship  , and , more recently , aiding handicapped individuals .
This impact on human society has given them the  उपनाम `` man 's बेहतरीन dost '' in the पश्चिमी संसार  .
In some cultures , dogs  हैं भी a सोर्स of मांस  .
In  2001 , वहीँ यहूद अनुमानित to be 400  million dogs in the world .
Most breeds of dogs are  at सबसे a few सौ सालो बूढ़ा , having महरूम artificially चयनित लिये particular morphologies और व्यवहार  by people for specific functional roles .
Through this selective breeding , the dog has  विकसित into सैंकड़ों of varied breeds , और shows अधिक behavioral और morphological  variation than any other land mammal .
For example , height measured to the withers ranges from  in the चिहुआहुआ to परिचय in the आयरिश wolfhound ; रंग varies इससे श्वेत through grays ( प्रायः पुकारा `` ब्लू '' ) to ब्लैक , और भूरा इससे  light ( tan ) to dark ( `` red '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a wide variation of patterns ; coats can be short or long , coarse-haired to wool-like , straight , curly , or smooth .
It  is आम लिये सबसे breeds  to shed this coat .
Diagram of a  हस्तांतरण इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी
A 1973 Siemens  इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी , musée देस कला et  Métiers , Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a type of  सूक्ष्मदर्शी कि उपयोग an इलेक्ट्रॉन बीम to illuminate a नमूना और उपज a magnified  image .
an em रै वृहद resolving शक्ति than a लाइट सूक्ष्मदर्शी और can खुलासा the ढांचा of छोटी वस्तुएँ क्युकी  electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons .
They can achieve better than 50  pm रेज़ोल्यूशन और magnifications of up to परिचय 10,000,000x whereas ordinary , non-confocal लाइट microscopes हैं सीमित  by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x .
The  इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी उपयोग electrostatic और इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक lenses to कंट्रोल  the electron beam and focus it to form an image .
These electron optical lenses are analogous to  the कांच lenses of a लाइट ऑप्टिकल सूक्ष्मदर्शी  .
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide range of  biological और अकार्बनिक नमूनों सहित microorganisms , कोशिकाएं , विशाल अणुओं , biopsy नमूने , धातुओं  , and crystals .
Industrially , the electron microscope is  प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये विशेषता कंट्रोल और विफलता विश्लेषण .
Modern electron microscopes  उपज इलेक्ट्रॉन micrographs , using specialized डिजिटल कैमरे or फ़्रेम grabbers  to capture the image .
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried chicken  तेज़ खाना रेस्तरां संस्थापित in 1972 in नई ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana .
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as Popeyes  मुर्गा & बिस्कुट or popeyes मुर्गा & seafood , it थी acquired by sandy स्रोतों , जॉर्जिया -आधारd afc उद्यमों  , originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company , in 1993 .
according to a कम्पनी दबायें रिलीज दिनाँक जून 29 , 2007 , popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service मुर्गा रेस्तरां समूह , measured by क्रमांक of इकाई '' , साथ अधिक than 1,800 रेस्तरां in अधिक than 40 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , और over 22 देशों विश्वव्यापी सहित तुर्कों , उत्तरी साइप्रस , बहरीन , चीन , हांग काँग , इराकी , इंडोनेशिया  , Jordan , Kuwait , United Arab Emirates , Japan , Malaysia , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , Singapore , Canada , Jamaica , Guyana , Suriname , Mexico , Trinidad , Puerto Rico , Honduras , Vietnam , Panama , Peru , and Costa Rica .
About thirty  स्थितियाँ हैं company-owned , the बाकी franchised  .
The leg  दबायें is a वज़न प्रशिक्षण कसरत in जिससे the व्यक्तिगत pushes a वज़न  or resistance away from them using their legs .
The  पद लेग दबायें भी refers to the apparatus प्रयुक्त  to perform this exercise .
The leg press can be  प्रयुक्त to evaluate an खिलाड़ी 's overall निम्नतर देह शक्ति  ( from knee joint to hip ) .
Using the  तिर्यक sled-type लेग दबायें  machine .
There  हैं दो प्रमुख प्रकार of  leg press:
The diagonal or  लंबवत 'sled ' प्रकार लेग दबायें  .
Weight disks  ( प्लेटों ) हैं संलग्न सीधे to the sled ,  which is mounted on rails .
The user  sits नीचे the sled और pushes it upward  with their feet .
These  मशीने सामान्यतः शामिल समायोज्य सुरक्षा कोष्ठक कि prevent the उपयोक्ता इससे  being trapped under the weight .
The 'cable ' type  लेग दबायें , or 'seated लेग दबायें ' , commonly  found on multigyms .
The user  sits कतरा और pushes आगे साथ उनके फीट onto a थाली कि is संलग्न to the  weight stack by means of a long steel cable .
Wendy Williams Hunter (  born वेन्डी जोन विलियम्स ; जुलाई 18 , 1964 ) is an अमरीकी  media personality , actress and author .
She hosts a  syndicated टेलीविज़न बात दिखाएँ , the वेन्डी विलियम्स दिखाएँ  .
Prior to television , Williams  थी a `` शॉक jockette `` on अनेक  radio shows .
Williams has gained  सुर्खी लिये उसके on-air spats साथ हस्तियाँ  .
She was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series called  the वेन्डी विलियम्स अनुभव जिससे ब्रॉडकास्ट कार्यक्रम surrounding  her radio show .
वो रै लिखा an आत्मकथा और अनेक अन्य किताबे , और  has created a product line called Adorn by Wendy Williams .
Patrick Henry ``  देशद्रोह '' वाक पहले the हाउस of burgesses in an 1851  painting by Peter F. Rothermel
``  दे me स्वतंत्रता , or दे me मौत ! '' is a quotation attributed to पैट्रिक हेनरी  from a speech he made to the Virginia Convention .
On that day , at St. John 's Church in Richmond , Virginia  , और is credited साथ having swung the संतुलन in convincing the वर्जिनिया हाउस of burgesses to pass a रेज़ोल्यूशन delivering the वर्जिनिया  troops to the Revolutionary War .
among the delegates to the सम्मेलन यहूद भविष्य us राष्ट्रपतियों थामस  Jefferson and George Washington .
Newfoundland  और labrador ( , locally ) is the easternmost  province of Canada .
situated in the देश 's अटलांटिक प्रदेश , it incorporates the द्वीप  of Newfoundland and mainland Labrador to the northwest , with a combined area of .
In 2011 ,  the प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 514,536  .
Approximately 92 percent of the  प्रांत 's जनसांख्यिकी जीवनदान on the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड ( सहित इसके संबद्ध  smaller islands ) , of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula .
The province is Canada 's most  linguistically homogenous , साथ 97.6 % of निवासियों रिपोर्टिंग अंग्रेज़ी ( न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ; .
Historically , Newfoundland was also home to unique  किस्में of फ्रेंच , और आयरिश , as खूब as the now-extinct beothuk  language .
In  labrador , लोकल dialects of innu-aimun और inuktitut  are also spoken .
Newfoundland and Labrador 's capital and largest city , St. John 's , is  कनाडा 's 20th-largest जनसांख्यिकी महानगर क्षेत्रफल , और is घर to लगभग 40 प्रतिशत of the प्रांत  's population .
St. John 's is the seat of government , home to the House of  सभा of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador और the उच्चतम अदालत in the क्षेत्राधिकार , the न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and Labrador Court of Appeal .
A former colony and dominion of the United  किंगडम , न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador became the दसवाँ प्रांत to डालें the कनाडाई कनफेडरेशन  on March 31 , 1949 , as Newfoundland .
On December 6 , 2001 ,  an amendment थी बना to the संविधान of कनाडा to बदलें the प्रांत 's आधिकारिक नाम to  Newfoundland and Labrador .
In day-to-day  वार्तालाप , however , canadians generally स्टिल refer to the प्रांत itself as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और  to the region on the Canadian mainland as Labrador .
थियोडोर ``  T.R . ''
Roosevelt , Jr. ( ; October 27 , 1858—January 6 , 1919 ) was the 26th  अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1901–1909 )  .
He is  विख्यात लिये उसके समृद्ध व्यक्तित्व , दायरा of रूचि और उपलब्धियाँ , और उसके नेतृत्व  of the Progressive Movement , as well as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity .
He was a leader of the Republican  पार्टी और संस्थापक of the पहला अवतार of the short-lived प्रगतिशील  ( `` Bull Moose '' ) Party of 1912 .
Before becoming President , he held  कार्यालयों at the नगर , राज्य , और संघीय स्तर  .
रूज़वेल्ट 's उपलब्धियाँ as a naturalist , एक्सप्लोरर , शिकारी , लेखक , और सिपाही हैं as much  a part of his fame as any office he held as a politician .
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the United  राज्य in 1901 , बनाना उसे the youngest अध्यक्ष कभी ; he ताल आउट the youngest निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष , जॉन F. कैनेडी ,  by only one year .
Roosevelt was also the first of  तभी तीन बैठे राष्ट्रपतियों to have जीती the  Nobel Peace Prize .
The Teddy bear is named  बाद उसे , despite उसके अवमानना लिये होने  called `` Teddy '' .
Born into a wealthy family in New York City ,  रूज़वेल्ट थी a sickly चाइल्ड जो suffered इससे दमा और ठहरे at घर अध्ययन प्राकृतिक  history .
To overcome his  शारीरिक कमज़ोरी , he embraced a  strenuous life .
home-schooled , he became an eager  student of nature .
He attended Harvard University , where  he पढ़ाई जीवविज्ञान , boxed और विकसित an ब्याज in नवल  affairs .
In 1881 , one year out of Harvard , he was elected to  the नई यॉर्क राज्य सभा , जहाँ he became a नेता of the सुधार गुट of उसके रिपब्लिकन  Party ( the `` GOP '' ) .
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 )  स्थापित उसके पेशेवर प्रतिष्ठा as a गंभीर इतिहासकार ; he लिखा numerous किताबे on शिकार , the बाहरी , और वर्तमान राजनैतिक मुद्दे , as खूब  as frontier history .
In 1884 , his first wife  और उसके माँ died on the वही  day .
He  temporarily बाएँ राजनीती और गई to the frontier , बनने a rancher  in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas .
Returning to New York City , he ran  लिये महापौर in 1886 , finishing तीसरा साथ 60,000  votes .
He later  gained कीर्ति by लेने vigorous चार्ज  of the city police .
At the national level ,  he थी a नेता in सिविल सेवा सुधार  .
The  spanish–american युद्ध broke आउट in 1898 जबकि  Roosevelt was , effectively , running the Department of the Navy .
He promptly resigned and  formed the अशिष्ट राइडर्स – a स्वयंसेवी प्यादे रेजीमेंट कि लड़ा  in Cuba .
The war hero was elected  राज्यपाल in 1898 और in 1900 थी मनोनीत लिये वाइस  president .
He successfully energized the GOP base as a highly  दृश्य प्रचारक to reelect अध्यक्ष विलियम mckinley on a मंच of ऊँची tariffs , the सुनहरा मानक , साम्राज्यवाद , समृद्धि at घर और विजय  abroad .
In 1901 , President William McKinley was  assassinated और रूज़वेल्ट became अध्यक्ष  .
He attempted to  मूव the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ( gop ) toward प्रगतिवाद , सहित विश्वास busting  and increased regulation of businesses .
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended  to the प्रेसिडेंसी ( इससे the vice-presidency ) upon the मौत of उसके पूर्ववर्ती , जीतना the largest प्रतिशत of the  popular vote since the uncontested election of 1820 .
रूज़वेल्ट coined the phrase `` वर्गाकार सौदे `` to describe उसके घरेलू कार्यसूची  , emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies .
As an  outdoorsman और naturalist , he प्रचारित the संरक्षण  movement .
On the world stage , Roosevelt 's  नीतियों यहूद characterized by उसके स्लोगन , `` बोलो softly  and carry a big stick `` .
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common ancestor ( s ) ( other than a  जनक , child/descendant , सहोदर , child/descendant of a सहोदर , or सहोदर of a parent/ancestor  ) .
However in  आम parlance , `` cousin '' सामान्यतः specifically  means `` first cousin '' .
Systems of `` degrees '' and `` removals '' are used in the English-speaking  संसार to describe the सटीक संबंध between दो cousins ( in the व्यापक भाव ) और the पूर्वज वे have in  common .
Various governmental entities have established systems for legal use that can more precisely specify kinships with common ancestors existing any number of  पीढियां in the पास्ट , हालांकि आम उपयोग प्रायः eliminates the डिग्री और removals और refers to लोगों साथ आम ancestry  as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives '' .
Webster is an American situation comedy that  aired on एबीसी इससे सितंबर 16 , 1983 जबतक may 8 , 1987 , और in first-run अनुप्रयोग इससे सितंबर 21 , 1987 जबतक  March 10 , 1989 .
the श्रेणी थी निर्मित  by Stu Silver .
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who , after losing his parents ,  is अपनाया by उसके एनएफएल -pro गॉडफादर , portrayed by एलेक्स karras , और उसके नई socialite बीवी  , played by Susan Clark .
The focus was largely on how this impulsively married couple had to adjust to their new lives and  अचानक parenthood , लकिन it थी the अनुकूल वेबस्टर खुद जो drove much of  the plot .
The series was  उत्पादित by जॉर्जियाई खाड़ी ltd. , emmanuel लुईस entertainment उद्यमों , inc. ( 1986-1989 ) और  Paramount Television .
Like NBC 's  पहले hit diff'rent स्ट्रोक्स , वेबस्टर प्रदर्शित a यंग african-american लड़के अपनाया  by a white family .
तीन प्रकार of कोशिका  division
Cell division is the  प्रक्रम by जिससे a जनक कोशिका divides into  two or more daughter cells .
कोशिका प्रभाग प्रायः occurs as भाग  of a larger cell cycle .
In eukaryotes , there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative division ,  whereby प्रत्येक बेटी कोशिका is genetically एकसमान to the जनक कोशिका ( समसूत्रण ) , और a reductive कोशिका प्रभाग , whereby the क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों in the बेटी कोशिकाएं is घटाया  by half , to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ) .
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some  पाइंट in उनके जीवन साईकिल , और दोनो हैं believed to be उपस्थित in the पिछला eukaryotic आम पूर्वज prokaryotes भी undergo  a vegetative cell division known as binary fission , where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells .
सब कोशिका विभाजन , regardless of सजीव , हैं preceded by  a single round of DNA replication .
For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba , one cell  प्रभाग is समतुल्य to जनन – an संपूर्ण नई सजीव  is created .
On a larger scale  , mitotic कोशिका प्रभाग can बनाएँ progeny इससे बहुकोशिकीय  organisms , such as plants that grow from cuttings .
Cell division  भी enables sexually reproducing जीवों to develop इससे the one-celled zygote , जिससे itself  was produced by cell division from gametes .
And after growth , cell  प्रभाग allows लिये continual निर्माण और मरम्मत  of the organism .
A human being 's body  अनुभवों परिचय 10,000 खरब कोशिका  divisions in a lifetime .
कोशिका प्रभाग रै महरूम modeled  by finite subdivision rules .
The  प्राथमिक चिंता of कोशिका प्रभाग is the मेंटेनेंस of the असली  cell 's genome .
Before division can occur , the genomic information  कि is भंडारित in गुणसूत्रों जरूर be replicated , और the duplicated  genome must be separated cleanly between cells .
A  ग्रेट सौदे of सेल्यूलर अवसंरचना is शामिल in keeping genomic सूचना सतत  between `` generations '' .
Mountain  सीमाएँ of मैसाचुसेट्स , संयुक्त  States .
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones , 23 February 1955 ,  southampton , हैम्पशायर , इंग्लैण्ड ) is a अंग्रेजों संगीतकार , सिंगर  and songwriter .
According to the  गिनीज किताब of अंग्रेजों hit singles & एल्बम , `` जोन्स is an संपन्नता singer-songwriter जो थी a नियमित चार्ट  visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop .
Jones , who was  बराबर लोकप्रिय in the u.S. , appeared at सजीव  Aid `` .
Allmusic journalist , Stephen  थामस erlewine adds , `` जोन्स थी एक of the धमक आंकड़े of mid-1980s synthpop  .
His music merged  the प्रौद्योगिकी intensive ध्वनि of नई वेव साथ  the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop .
Jones  racked up a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स in the मिड और लेट 1980s , पहले he retreated into होने  a cult figure in the 1990s '' .
The International Isle of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race is a motorcycle racing event held  on the आइल of man और थी लिये अनेक सालो the सबसे prestigious मोटरसाइकिल रेस in the संसार  .
The event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix World Championship  दौरान the काल 1949–1976 पहले होने transferred to the संयुक्त किंगडम बाद सुरक्षा चिंताएं और चलाएं by the fim as the  British Grand Prix for the 1977 season .
The Isle of Man TT Races became part of the  tt सूत्र 1 चैंपियनशिप इससे 1977 to 1990 to बचाना the इवेंट 's रेसिंग औकात  .
From  1989 the रेसिंग रै महरूम विकसित by the आइल of  Man Department of Tourism as the Isle of Man TT Festival .
The race is run in a  time-trial स्वरूप on पब्लिक सड़कें बंद लिये रेसिंग by the प्रावधानों of an अधिनियम of tynwald  ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ) .
The first race was held  on मंगलवार 28 may 1907 और थी पुकारा the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy .
The  इवेंट थी संगठित by the auto-cycle क्लबों over 10 गोद of the st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स of 15 मील 1,470 गज लिये  road-legal touring motorcycles with exhaust silencers , saddles , pedals and mud-guards .
The winner of the single-cylinder class ,  और overall विजेता of the पहला इवेंट in 1907 , थी चार्ली collier सवारी a matchless मोटरसाइकिल in a समय of 4 घंटों , 8 मिनट्स और 8 सेकेंड  at an average race speed of 38.21 mph .
The winner of the  twin-cylinder क्लास थी rem fowler सवारी a peugeot एंजिन नॉर्टन in a समय of 4 घंटों 21 मिनट्स  and 52 seconds at an average race speed of 36.21 mph .
The trophy presented to Charlie Collier as the winner of the  1907 आइल of man tt रेस , थी दान by the बिल्ले de  Mouzilly St. Mars .
It featured a stylised version of Olympic God Hermes by  giovanni da बोलोग्ना as a चांदी figurine astride a winged  wheel .
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy presented to  जॉन नेपियर ( arrol-johnston ) as the inaugural विजेता of the आइल of man पर्यटक ट्रॉफी car रेस in 1905 अभी ज्ञात  as the RAC Tourist Trophy .
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars Trophy is now  प्रस्तुत annually to the विजेता of the आइल of man वरिष्ठ  TT Motor-Cycle Race .
The  2007 आइल of man tt थी the centenary इवेंट जिससे भागा between 26 may और 8 जून 2007 और प्रदर्शित a खास re-enactment  of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race held on the village green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007 .
The vintage parade of 100 classic  मोटरसाइकिल लिये the centenary re-enactment on the असली st जॉन 's छोटी  Course was flagged away by former World Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff Duke .
The first of the participants to be flagged away was  the recently लौटी twin-cylinder peugeot-norton ridden by rem fowler दौरान the पहला आइल  of Man TT Race in 1907 .
Also participating in the 2007  re-enactment थी tt रेस प्रतिस्पर्धी guy मार्टिन सवारी a 1938 triumph बाघ 100 500 cc और अन्य पूर्व tt प्रतिस्पर्धी सहित एलन cathcart , सैमी मिलर , उपनाम jefferies और  Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap .
upright=1.15
बेरोजगारी ( or joblessness ) occurs जब  people are without work and actively seeking work .
The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as  a प्रतिशत by dividing the क्रमांक of बेरोजगार individuals by सब individuals फिलहाल in the मजदूर  force .
दौरान अवधि of मंदी , an अर्थव्यवस्था प्रायः अनुभवों  a relatively high unemployment rate .
According to International Labour  संगठन रपट , अधिक than 197 लाख लोगों globally हैं आउट of कार्य or 6 % of the संसार  's workforce were without a job in 2012 .
There  remains considerable सैद्धांतिक बहस regarding  the causes , consequences and solutions for unemployment .
Classical  अर्थशास्त्र , नई शास्त्रीय अर्थशास्त्र , और the आस्ट्रिया स्कूल of अर्थशास्त्र argue कि मार्केट mechanisms  are reliable means of resolving unemployment .
These theories argue against  interventions imposed on the मजदूर मार्केट इससे the बाहर , ऐसे as unionization , न्यूनतम मजदूरी कानून , कर , और अन्य regulations कि वे अर्जी discourage  the hiring of workers .
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical  प्रकृति of बेरोजगारी और अनुशंसा सरकारी interventions in the अर्थव्यवस्था कि it दावा होगा  reduce unemployment during recessions .
This theory focuses on recurrent shocks that suddenly reduce aggregate  माँग लिये goods और सेवाएं और यूँ reduce माँग लिये मजदूर  .
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase  माँग लिये मजदूर ; ये can शामिल वित्तीय stimuli , सरेआम वित्तपोषित जॉब सृष्टि , और expansionist मौद्रिक  policies .
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment , there are a few  categorizations of बेरोजगारी कि हैं प्रयुक्त to अधिक precisely मॉडल the प्रभाव of बेरोजगारी भीतर  the economic system .
The main types of  बेरोजगारी शामिल संरचनात्मक बेरोजगारी जिससे focuses on संरचनात्मक समस्याएं in the अर्थव्यवस्था और inefficiencies  inherent in labour markets , including a mismatch between the supply and demand of laborers with necessary skill sets .
संरचनात्मक वितर्क emphasize कल्याणकारी और समाधान  related to disruptive technologies and globalization .
चर्चाएँ of frictional बेरोजगारी फ़ोकस on voluntary निर्णय to कार्य आधारित on प्रत्येक individuals ' valuation of उनके अपना कार्य और कैसा कि compares to वर्तमान मजदूरी दरों प्लस  the time and effort required to find a job .
Causes and  समाधान लिये frictional बेरोजगारी प्रायः पता जॉब  entry threshold and wage rates .
Behavioral economists highlight individual biases  in निर्णय बनाना , और प्रायः involve समस्याएं और समाधान concerning स्टिकी मजदूरी  and efficiency wages .
collectivism is कोई philosophic , राजनैतिक , धार्मिक , आर्थिक , or सोशल आउटलुक कि emphasizes the interdependence of प्रत्येक इंसान होने in a समाज or सभ्यता  .
Collectivism is a  मौलिक सांस्कृतिक तत्व कि exists as the रिवर्स of व्यक्तिगत in इंसान प्रकृति  ( in the same way high context culture exists as the reverse of low context culture ) .
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion within social groups ( such as an `` in-group '' , in  कया विशिष्ट कॉन्टेक्स्ट it is पारिभाषित ) और in कुछ मामले , the प्रधानता of समूह लक्ष्य over  individual goals .
collectivists प्रायः फ़ोकस on जातियाँ  , society , nation or country .
It has been  प्रयुक्त as an तत्व in अनेक अलग और विविध प्रकार of सरकारी और राजनैतिक , आर्थिक और शैक्षणिक तत्त्वज्ञान throughout  history and most human societies in practice contain elements of both individualism and collectivism .
Some examples of  collectivist संस्कृतियों शामिल  India and Japan .
Collectivism can be divided into horizontal  collectivism और लंबवत collectivism  .
Horizontal collectivism stresses  सामूहिक decision-making among बराबर individuals , और is यूँ प्रायः आधारित on decentralization और समतावाद  .
Vertical collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of power  और on moral और सांस्कृतिक conformity , और is इसलिए आधारित on centralization और पदानुक्रम  .
A cooperative enterprise would be an  उदाहरण of आड़ा collectivism , whereas a सैन्य पदानुक्रम होता be an उदाहरण of लंबवत  collectivism .
Acute  disseminated encephalomyelitis ( adem ) is an प्रतिरक्षा mediated बीमारी of the  brain .
It  प्रायः occurs following a वाइरल संक्रमण लकिन may appear following टीकाकरण , बैक्टीरियल or parasitic  infection , or even appear spontaneously .
As it involves autoimmune  demyelination , it is समान to अनेक काठिन्य , और is माना भाग of the अनेक काठिन्य borderline  diseases .
The incidence rate  is परिचय 8 प्रति 1,000,000 लोगों प्रति  year .
Although it occurs in all ages , most reported cases are in  children और adolescents , साथ the औसत आयु around 5 to 8 सालो  old .
The mortality rate may be as high as 5 % , full recovery is seen in 50 to  75 % of मामले , जबकि up to 70 to 90 % रिकवर साथ कुछ नाबालिग अवशेष विकलांगता  .
The average  समय to रिकवर is एक to छह महीने  .
ADEM  produces अनेक जलन lesions in the दिमाग और स्पाइनल cord  , particularly in the white matter .
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white  पदार्थ और cortical gray-white जंक्शन of दोनो दिमागी बांटती , cerebellum , brainstem , और स्पाइनल cord , लकिन periventricular श्वेत पदार्थ और धूसर पदार्थ  of the cortex , thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved .
When the  रोगी पीड़ित अधिक than एक demyelinating एपीसोड , it is पुकारा तूल disseminated  encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ) .
The stomach is a muscular , hollow , dilated part of the digestion system which  कृत्यों as an महत्वपूर्ण अंग of the digestive ट्रैक्ट in कुछ पशु , सहित vertebrates  , echinoderms , insects ( mid-gut ) , and molluscs .
It is  शामिल in the दूसरी phase of पाचन , following  mastication ( chewing ) .
The stomach is located  between the ग्रासनाल और the छोटी आंत  .
It  secretes protein-digesting एंजाइमों पुकारा protease और दमदार acids to सहायता in खाना पाचन , ( भेजा to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through चिकना muscular contortions  ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines .
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is derived from  the यूनानी शब्द stomachos ( στόμαχος  ) , ultimately from stoma ( ) , `` mouth '' .
The words gastro- and  gastric ( अर्थ सम्बन्धित to the पेट )  are both derived from the Greek word gaster ( ) .
1940 pontiac खास श्रेणी  25 Woodie
A woodie is a car body style , especially a station wagon , where the  पश्च bodywork is constructed of लकडी फ्रेमवर्क साथ infill panels of  wood or painted metal .
After  the निधन of वास्तविक लकडी निर्माण , निर्माताओं प्रयुक्त अनुकरण woodgrain चादर vinyl—sometimes augmented साथ three-dimensional  , simulated framework—to recall wood construction .
In 2008 , wood  निर्माण थी जगाई abstractly on the घाट फ्लेक्स साथ a श्रेणी of पक्ष और पश्च  horizontal grooves .
A pearl is a hard object produced within the soft tissue (  specifically the mantle ) of a जीना shelled mollusc  .
Just like the shell of a clam , a pearl is made up of  कैल्सियम कार्बोनेट in मिनट crystalline रूप , जिससे रै महरूम deposited in केंद्रिय  layers .
The ideal pearl  is perfectly गोलाकार और चिकना , लकिन अनेक अन्य आकार of मोती  ( baroque pearls ) occur .
The finest quality natural pearls have  महरूम अत्यधिक valued as रत्नों और वस्तुएँ of सौंदर्य लिये अनेक सदियां , और क्युकी of इस , the शब्द पर्ल रै become a रूपक  for something very rare , fine , admirable , and valuable .
The most valuable  मोती occur अनायास in the जंगली , लकिन वे हैं  extremely rare .
ये जंगली मोती हैं  referred to as natural pearls .
Cultured or farmed  मोती इससे पर्ल oysters और freshwater mussels मेक up the बहुमत  of those that are currently sold .
Imitation pearls are  भी widely बेची in inexpensive आभूषण , लकिन the विशेषता of उनके iridescence is प्रायः बहुत ग़रीब , और प्रायः , कृत्रिम  pearls are easily distinguished from genuine pearls .
Pearls have  महरूम harvested और cultivated primarily लिये उपयोग in आभूषण , लकिन in the पास्ट वे यहूद भी  stitched onto lavish clothing .
Pearls have also been  कुचल और प्रयुक्त in कॉस्मेटिक्स , दवाइयाँ , और in पेंट formulations  .
Whether wild or cultured , gem quality  मोती हैं लगभग सदा nacreous और , as is the आंतरिक of the शेल  that produces them .
However , almost all species of shelled molluscs are capable of producing  मोती ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by कुछ स्त्रोत ) of lesser चमक  or less spherical shape .
Although these may  भी be legitimately referred to as `` मोती '' by gemological लैब्स और भी अंतर्गत u.S. संघीय व्यापार आयोग नियम ,  and are formed in the same way , most of them have no value , except as curiosities .
bing ( ज्ञात previously as सजीव ढूंढें , खिड़कियाँ सजीव ढूंढें , और एमएसएन ढूंढें ) is a वेब ढूंढें इंजन ( advertised  as a `` decision engine `` ) from Microsoft .
Bing was unveiled by  microsoft सीईओ स्टीव बाल्मर on may 28 , 2009 at the सब बाते डिजिटल सम्मेलन  in San Diego for release on June 1 .
notable परिवर्तन शामिल the लिस्टिंग of ढूंढें सुझाव जबकि प्रश्नों हैं डाला और a सूची of सम्बन्धित  searches ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008 .
On July 29  , 2009 , microsoft और याहू ! घोषित a सौदे in जिससे  Bing would power Yahoo ! Search .
All  याहू ! ढूंढें वैश्विक ग्राहक और साझेदार हैं अपेक्षित  to have made the transition by early 2012 .
In October 2011 , Bing announced it was working  on नई back-end ढूंढें अवसंरचना , साथ the लक्ष्य of delivering तेज़ और थोड़ा  more relevant search results for users .
Known as `` Tiger '' , the new  index-serving प्रौद्योगिकी रै महरूम incorporated into bing globally  , since August 2011 .
In May 2012 , Bing announced another redesign of its search engine that  शामिल `` साइडबार '' , a सोशल विशेषता कि खोज उपयोक्ता ' सोशल संजाल लिये  information relevant to the search query .
A diagram showing  an i गठन on ठोकर और a 4-3 गठन  on defense
In American  फ़ुटबॉल , प्रत्येक टोली रै ग्यारह खिलाड़ी  on the field at one time .
The specific role that a  खिलाड़ी takes on the फ़ील्ड is पुकारा उनके स्थिति  .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are allowed unlimited  subsititutions , कि is टीमों may बदलें कोई क्रमांक of खिलाड़ी बाद कोई खेल  .
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players  , the ठोकर ( the टोली साथ the बॉल , जो is trying to स्कोर ) , the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली इससे स्कोरिंग , और to लो the बॉल इससे उन्हें ) , और the  special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons , various specific positions  मौजूद depending on कया the खिलाड़ी 's प्रमुख जॉब  is .
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots :  airish fowk ) हैं an जातीय समूह जो originate in आयरलैंड , an द्वीप in northwestern यूरोपीय  .
Ireland has been populated  लिये around 9,000 सालो ( according to पुरातत्व  studies , see Prehistoric Ireland ) .
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors  हैं अंकित in महापुरूष – वे हैं claimed to be descended इससे समूह ऐसे as the nemedians , fomorians , fir bolg , tuatha  Dé Danann and the Milesians .
Lebor Gabála Érenn , a book of Irish  mythology tells कि milesians यहूद स्काइथियन  descendants .
The main groups that  interacted साथ the आयरिश in the मध्य आयु  include the Picts , Scots , and the Vikings .
Due to this  सम्पर्क , icelanders हैं विख्यात लिये having कुछ आयरिश  descent .
The Anglo-Norman invasion of the High Middle Ages , the English plantations and  the subsequent अंग्रेज़ी नियम of the देश introduced the normans और फ्लेमिश into आयरलैंड  .
वेल्श , picts , bretons , और छोटी पार्टियों of gauls और भी anglo-saxons  are known in Ireland from much earlier times .
There have been  अनेक notable आयरिश लोगों throughout  history .
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary Columbanus is  regarded as एक of the `` fathers of यूरोपीय '' , followed by kilian of würzburg  and Vergilius of Salzburg .
The scientist Robert Boyle is considered  the `` पिता of रसायन ``  .
Famous  आयरिश explorers शामिल ब्रेंडन the नाविक , रॉबर्ट  McClure , Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean .
By some accounts , the first European child born in North America had Irish  descent on दोनो पहलू ; और an irishman थी the पहला यूरोपीय to नियत पैर on अमरीकी मृदा in कोलंबस ' expedition of 1492  .
There are descendants of Irish  लोगों जीना in अनेक पश्चिमी देशों , विशेषकर  in English-speaking countries .
Historically , emigration has been caused  by राजनीती , अकाल और आर्थिक  issues .
An estimated 50 to 80 million people are  वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों , primarily in the संयुक्त किंगडम , the संयुक्त राज्य , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , कनाडा और आइसलैंड ; वहीँ हैं भी छोटी संख्याएँ in  Argentina , Chile , Mexico , Jamaica , Barbados , South Africa , New Zealand , France , Germany and Brazil .
The largest number of  वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों  live in the United States .
The number of people  जीना in ऑस्ट्रेलिया जो हैं of आयरिश descent is उच्चतर , as a प्रतिशत  of total population , than that of any other country .
Approximately forty percent of the  उपनिवेश जनसांख्यिकी of आइसलैंड आए इससे आयरलैंड or स्कॉटलैंड  .
The very  पहला निवासियों of आइसलैंड यहूद  Irish .
The Hubble Space Telescope  ( hst ) is a स्पेस दूरदर्शी कि थी carried into कक्षा by a स्पेस  Shuttle in 1990 and remains in operation .
A aperture telescope in  कम धरती कक्षा , हबल 's चार प्रमुख यंत्र observe in the निकट पराबैंगनी  , visible , and near infrared .
The  दूरदर्शी is नामित बाद the astronomer एडविन  Hubble .
Hubble 's  कक्षा बाहर the distortion of धरती 's माहौल allows  it to take extremely sharp images with almost no background light .
Hubble 's Deep Field have been some of the most  विस्तृत visible-light बिंब कभी , allowing a गहन दृश्य into स्पेस और समय  .
Many Hubble observations have led to breakthroughs in astrophysics ,  ऐसे as accurately determining the रेट of विस्तार of the  universe .
Although not the first  स्पेस दूरदर्शी , हबल is एक of the largest और सबसे बहुमुखी , और is खूब ज्ञात as दोनो a vital शोध औजार और  a public relations boon for astronomy .
The HST was built by the United States space agency NASA , with  योगदान इससे the यूरोपीय स्पेस एजेंसी , और is संचालित by the स्पेस दूरदर्शी विज्ञान  Institute .
The HST  is एक of नासा 's ग्रेट observatories , साथ साथ  the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory , the Chandra X-ray Observatory , and the Spitzer Space Telescope .
स्पेस telescopes यहूद प्रस्तावित  as early as 1923 .
Hubble  थी वित्तपोषित in the 1970s , साथ a प्रस्तावित लॉन्च in 1983 , लकिन the प्रोजेक्ट थी घिरा by तकनीकी देरी , बजट समस्याएं  , and the Challenger disaster .
When finally launched in  1990 , वैज्ञानिकों मिला कि the प्रमुख दर्पण था महरूम मैदान incorrectly  , compromising the telescope 's capabilities .
the दूरदर्शी थी लौटी to इसके intended  quality by a servicing mission in 1993 .
Hubble is the  तभी दूरदर्शी designed to be सर्विस in स्पेस by astronauts  .
Between 1993 and 2002 , four missions  repaired , upgraded , और replaced प्रणालियों on the दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां मिशन थी  canceled on safety grounds following the Columbia disaster .
However , after  spirited पब्लिक चर्चा , नासा व्यवस्थापक माइक griffin स्वीकृत एक फाइनल सर्विसिंग  mission , completed in 2009 by Space Shuttle Atlantis .
The telescope is now  अपेक्षित to फलन जबतक at तनिक  2013 .
Its  वैज्ञानिक successor , the जेम्स webb स्पेस दूरदर्शी  ( JWST ) , is to be launched in 2018 or possibly later .
Anti-inflammatory refers  to the प्रॉपर्टी of a पदार्थ or उपचार  that reduces inflammation .
anti-inflammatory दवाएँ मेक up परिचय हाफ of analgesics , remedying पीड़ा by reducing  inflammation as opposed to opioids , which affect the central nervous system .
The Tonight Show is a US  late-night बात दिखाएँ कि रै aired on एनबीसी  since 1954 .
It is the longest currently running regularly scheduled entertainment program in  the us और the तीसरा longest-running दिखाएँ on एनबीसी बाद मिलें the दबायें और आज .
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ) , Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ) , Johnny  कार्सन ( 1962–1992 ) , jay लीनो ( 1992–2009 , 2010–present ) , और कोनन  O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ) .
Several guest hosts also appeared ,  विशेषकर दौरान the paar और कार्सन eras .
The  longest-serving मेजबान to तिथि थी जॉनी कार्सन , जो hosted the tonight दिखाएँ अभिनीत जॉनी कार्सन लिये 30 सीज़न  from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992 .
The current host  of the दिखाएँ is jay लीनो , जो था previously hosted the दिखाएँ इससे  1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on March 1 , 2010 .
On April 3 , 2013 , NBC  घोषित jimmy fallon होता become  the new host of The Tonight Show .
The  tonight दिखाएँ साथ jimmy fallon होगा प्रीमियर फ़रवरी 24 , 2014 , the दिन बाद  the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics .
ss एंड्रिया डोरिया  .
Pronounced was  an समंदर लाइनर लिये the इतालवी लकीर ( società di navigazione इटालिया ) घर ported in जेनोआ , इटली , सबसे प्रसिद्ध  for its sinking in 1956 , when 52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ) .
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria , the ship had a  सकल पंजीकरण tonnage of 29,100 और a क्षमता of परिचय 1,200 यात्री  and 500 crew .
For a country attempting to rebuild its economy and  प्रतिष्ठा बाद संसार युद्ध ii , एंड्रिया डोरिया थी an प्रतीक of  Italian national pride .
Of all Italy 's ships at the time , Andrea  डोरिया थी the largest , तीव्रतम और माना safest  .
Launched on 16 June  1951 , the जलयान undertook इसके maiden voyage  on 14 January 1953 .
On 25 July 1956 , while the Andrea Doria was approaching the coast of Nantucket , Massachusetts , bound for New York City , the  eastbound of the स्वीडिश अमरीकी लकीर collided साथ it in कया became एक of इतिहास 's सबसे infamous  maritime disasters .
Struck in the side , the  top-heavy एंड्रिया डोरिया तत्काल प्रारंभ to सूची severely to स्टारबोर्ड ,  which left half of its lifeboats unusable .
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted  in significant घाटा of जीवन , लकिन the दक्षता of the जलयान 's तकनीकी डिज़ाइन अनुमत it to रहो afloat लिये over 11  hours after the ramming .
The good behavior of the crew , improvements in communications and the rapid  जवाब of अन्य जहाजों averted a विपत्ति समान in स्केल to कि  of the in 1912 .
1,660 passengers and  क्रू यहूद बचाया और बच , जबकि 46 लोगों died  as a consequence of the collision .
The evacuated luxury  लाइनर capsized और sank the following  morning .
This accident remains the worst  मेरीटाइम विपत्ति to occur in संयुक्त राज्य waters चूंकि  the sinking of the in 1915 .
The incident  और इसके aftermath यहूद heavily covered  by the news media .
While the  बचाव प्रयत्न यहूद दोनो कामयाब और commendable , the कारण of the टक्कर साथ the स्टॉकहोम और the  loss of Andrea Doria generated much interest in the media and many lawsuits .
Largely because of an out-of-court  उपनिवेश अनुबंध between the दो शिपिंग कंपनियाँ दौरान hearings तत्काल बाद the विपत्ति , no determination  of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published .
Although greater  दोष appeared initially to पतन on the इतालवी लाइनर , अधिक हाल discoveries have indicated  that a misreading of radar on the Swedish ship may have initiated the collision course , leading to errors on both ships .
Andrea Doria was  the पिछला प्रमुख transatlantic यात्री पोत to डूबना पहले वायुयान became the पसन्दीदा विधि  of travel .
डायलिसिस tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially permeable  झिल्ली tubing बना इससे regenerated cellulose or सेलोफेन  .
It can be used for  diffusion साथ solutes or परासरण if प्रयुक्त साथ जल  only .
परासरण is जब जल गुजरता through  a semi-permeable layer to reach equilibrium .
Diffusion  , on the अन्य हाथ , allows the गति of अणुओं इससे ऊँची  concentration to low concentration .
It will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable  झिल्ली or परत if the अणु is छोटी पर्याप्त to अनुरूप through the झिल्ली or a झिल्ली  's pore .
This usually results with the  प्रभाव of diffusion through a झिल्ली तभी वाकई affects छोटी अणुओं  , and almost never larger molecules .
Dialysis tubing is  प्रयुक्त in नैदानिक हालातों to ensure a filtered प्रवाह of अणुओं , preventing  the flow of larger solute molecules .
छोटी अणुओं can be `` धोया '' आउट of a समाधान जिससे is उत्तेजित through the tubing into a solvent  , usually water , which surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away .
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes , a  समाधान containing अनेक प्रकार of अणुओं , प्रायः ग्लूकोज और मंड , is लगाई into a semi-permeable डायलिसिस थैला , ऐसे as a cellulose झिल्ली साथ  pores , and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band .
The sealed dialysis bag is  लगाई in a संग्राहक of a अलग समाधान , or जल  .
Molecules small enough to pass through the tubing  ( जल , लवण , monosaccharides , और अन्य छोटी अणुओं ) tend to मूव into or आउट of the डायलिसिस थैला in the दिशा of  decreasing concentration , therefore displaying diffusion .
Larger molecules ( such as  प्रोटीन , or polysaccharides ) कि have आयाम significantly वृहद  than the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag .
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has a lesser solute concentration than the solution it is  संदर्भित to ) होगा क्रॉस a semi-permeable झिल्ली , जैसे डायलिसिस tubing , into a hypertonic समाधान ( a समाधान कि रै a उच्चतर solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) in an attempt to पहुँचें  equilibrium , where the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium .
पारा प्रयोगशाला  thermometer
A thermometer ( from the Greek ,  thermos , अर्थ `` hot '' और μἐτρον , metron , `` माप '' ) is a यंत्र कि उपायों तापमान  or temperature gradient using a variety of different principles .
A thermometer has two  महत्वपूर्ण तत्व : the तापमान सेंसर ( e.g . the बल्ब on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ) in जिससे कुछ शारीरिक बदलें occurs साथ  temperature , plus some means of converting this physical change into a numerical value ( e.g . the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) .
There are many types and  अनेक उपयोग लिये thermometers , as विस्तृत  below in sections of this article .
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a  1937 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक फिल्मी उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी  and released by RKO Radio Pictures .
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm , it is the first  full-length cel एनिमेटेड विशेषता फिल्मी और the earliest in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड क्लासिक श्रेणी  .
The story was adapted by storyboard artists  डोरोथी ऐन रिक्त , रिचर्ड creedon , मेरिल de मारिस , ओटो englander , अर्ल hurd , लंड rickard , टेड सियर्स  and Webb Smith .
David Hand was the supervising director , while William Cottrell , Wilfred Jackson  , लैरी morey , perce pearce , और बेन sharpsteen निर्देशित the  film 's individual sequences .
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21 , 1937 , followed by a nationwide release on February 4 , 1938  , और साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय आय of $ 8 लाख दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज briefly assumed the रिकार्ड of उच्चतम grossing ध्वनि फिल्मी  at the time .
The popularity of the film has  led to it होने re-released theatrically अनेक टाइम्स , जबतक इसके घर वीडियो रिलीज  in the 1990s .
समायोजित लिये महंगाई , it is एक of the शीर्ष टेन performers at the  North American box office .
At the 11th Academy  पुरस्कार , वॉल्ट डिज़्नी थी awarded an मानद ऑस्कर , और the फिल्मी थी  nominated for Best Musical Score .
It was added to the United States National Film Registry  in 1989 और is क्रमित in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's सूची of the 100 महानतम अमरीकी films , जो भी नामित the फिल्मी as the महानतम अमरीकी एनिमेटेड  film of all time in 2008 .
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big cultural impact ,  resulting in a लोकप्रिय थीम पार्क आकर्षण , a वीडियो खेल , और a ब्रॉडवे  musical .
Childbirth , labour ,  डिलीवरी , जनम , partus , or parturition is the culmination of a गर्भावस्था काल साथ the expulsion of एक or  more newborn infants from a woman 's uterus .
The process of normal  प्रसव is categorized in तीन चरण of श्रमिक : the shortening और  dilation of the cervix , descent and birth of the infant , and birth of the placenta .
In many cases and with increasing frequency ,  प्रसव is हासिल through प्रेरण of मजदूर or caesarean खण्ड , जिससे is the हटाना of the neonate  through a surgical incision in the abdomen , rather than through vaginal birth .
Childbirth  by c-sections increased 50 % in the u.S. इससे 1996 to 2006 , और comprise nearly  32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada .
With respect to induced labor , more than 22 % of women  undergo प्रेरण of श्रमिक in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Medical professional policy makers find that induced  births और elective cesarean can be नुकसानदेह to the भ्रूण और neonate as खूब as नुकसानदेह or बगैर लाभ to the माँ ,  and have established strict guidelines for non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks .
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which followed Bam Margera  और उसके क्रू as वे undertook चुनौतियां , performed स्टंट और  traveled the world .
The show ran for 5 seasons  between 2003 और 2005  .
Flushed Away is a 2006 British/American computer  एनिमेटेड कार्रवाई / एडवेंचर कॉमेडी फिल्मी निर्देशित by दाउद bowers  and Sam Fell .
It was made in the partnership between Aardman  एनिमेशन और ड्रीमवर्क्स एनिमेशन , और is aardman 's पहला completely computer-animated  feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion .
The film stars the voice talents of  ह्यूज जैकमैन , केट विंसलेट , एंडी serkis , विधेयक nighy , इयान mckellen , शेन richie और जां रेनो  .
The story was by Sam Fell , Peter Lord , Dick Clement  , और इयान la frenais , और the पटकथा थी लिखा by लंड सहनशील , इयान la frenais , क्रिस्टोफर  Lloyd , Joe Keenan , and William Davies .
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006 , and in UK on December 1 2006 , and was distributed  by सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें , मगर लिये स्विट्ज़रलैंड , स्पेन , और the नीदरलैंड्स , जिससे यहूद संभाला by  Universal Pictures .
The Atlanta Braves are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in अटलांटा  .
The Braves are a member of the  पूर्वी प्रभाग of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's  National League .
The Braves  have निभाई in टर्नर फ़ील्ड चूंकि  1997 .
The `` Braves '' name , which was first used in  1912 , originates इससे a पद लिये a देशी अमरीकी  warrior .
They are  nicknamed `` the bravos '' , और प्रायः referred to as `` अमेरिका 's टोली `` in सन्दर्भ to the  team 's games being broadcast on the nationally available TBS from the 1970s until 2007 , gaining a wide fanbase .
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball , winning division  शीर्षक an unprecedented 14 लगातार टाइम्स in कि काल ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 ऋतु in जिससे वहीँ यहूद no  official division champions ) .
The Braves won the NL  वेस्ट 1991–93 और the nl ईस्ट 1995–2005 , और लौटे to the playoffs as the नेशनल  League Wild Card in 2010 .
the braves उन्नत to the संसार श्रेणी पाँच टाइम्स in  the 1990s , winning the title in 1995 .
Since their  डेब्यू in the नेशनल लीग in 1876 , the मताधिकार रै जीती 16 डिवीजनल शीर्षक , 17 नेशनल लीग pennants , as खूब as तीन संसार  Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves , in 1957 as the Milwaukee Braves , and in 1995 in Atlanta .
The Braves are the only MLB  मताधिकार to have जीती the संसार श्रेणी in तीन अलग  home cities .
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the other being the Chicago Cubs ) and was founded in  बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स , in 1871 as the बोस्टन रेड stockings ( नहीं to be उलझन साथ the अमरीकी  League 's Boston Red Sox ) .
They are considered `` the oldest  लगातार playing टोली in प्रमुख उत्तर अमरीकी  sports . ''
There is an argument as to who is actually  पुरानी क्युकी हालांकि the शावक हैं a पूरा ऋतु `` पुरानी '' ( formed as the शिकागो श्वेत stockings in 1870 ) शिकागो खोया  two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire , thus the Braves have played more consecutive seasons .
After various name changes ( such as the Boston Beaneaters )  , the टोली संचालित as the बोस्टन braves लिये सबसे of the पहला हाफ of the 20th  century .
In 1953 , the  टोली स्थानांतरित to मिल्वौकी , विस्कॉन्सिन और became the मिल्वौकी braves , followed by the  move to Atlanta in 1966 .
The team 's tenure in Atlanta is famous for Hank Aaron breaking Babe Ruth 's career home run record in 1974 ,  हालांकि the बहुमत of आरोन 's घर रनों यहूद hit जबकि the टोली थी in मिल्वौकी  .
His  रिकार्ड stood जबतक 2007 , जब सैन फ्रांसिस्को बाएँ  fielder Barry Bonds broke the record .
The  पत्ते of a beech  tree
3D  रेंडरिंग of a μct स्कैन of a  leaf piece , resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel .
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant , as defined in  वनस्पति शर्तें , और in particular in संयंत्र  morphology .
Foliage is a mass noun  कि refers to पत्ते as a विशेषता  of plants .
Typically a leaf is a thin , flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis , but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are  नहीं चपटा ( लिये उदाहरण अनेक रसीले पत्ते और conifers ) , कुछ हैं नहीं ऊपर मैदान ( ऐसे as बल्ब तराजू ) , और कुछ हैं बगैर प्रमुख photosynthetic फलन ( consider लिये उदाहरण cataphylls , कांटे , और  cotyledons ) .
Conversely , many structures of non-vascular plants , or even of some lichens ,  जिससे हैं नहीं पौधे at सब ( in the भाव of होने सदस्यों of the किंगडम plantae ) , do dekh और फलन much  like leaves .
Furthermore , several  structures मिला in vascular पौधे dekh जैसे पत्ते लकिन हैं नहीं दरअसल पत्ते ; वे  differ from leaves in their structures and origins .
उदाहरण शामिल phyllodes , cladodes  , and phylloclades .
Title  कार्ड लिये the 1937 हमारी गिरोह कॉमेडी  Rushin ' Ballet .
Our Gang ( also known as The Little Rascals or Hal Roach 's Rascals ) are a series of American comedy short films  परिचय a समूह of ग़रीब पड़ोस children और उनके adventures  .
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach , the  श्रेणी is विख्यात लिये प्रर्दशित children behaving in a अपेक्षाकृत प्राकृतिक रास्ता , as रोच और असली निदेशक रॉबर्ट F. mcgowan  worked to film the unaffected , raw nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate adult acting styles .
In addition , Our Gang  notably put लड़कों , लड़कियों , whites और अश्वेतों साथ in a समूह as बराबरी , कुछ कि `` broke नई मैदान , '' according to फिल्मी इतिहासकार  Leonard Maltin .
Such a  बात था never महरूम किया पहले in सिनेमा लकिन रै चूंकि महरूम  repeated after the success of Our Gang .
The  पहला उत्पादन at the रोच स्टुडियो in 1922 थी a श्रेणी  of silent short subjects .
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to  metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) in 1927 , और परिवर्तित the श्रेणी to ध्वनि in 1929 , the श्रेणी took  off even further .
Production continued at the Roach studio until 1938 ,  जब the श्रेणी थी बेची to mgm , जो तब जारी producing the comedies जबतक  1944 .
The Our Gang series  शामिल a कुल of 220 शॉर्ट्स और एक विशेषता फिल्मी , सामान्य spanky , featuring  over forty-one child actors .
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang  ट्रेडमार्क following उनके खरीदें of the उत्पादन अधिकारों , the 80 roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' यहूद syndicated लिये टेलीविज़न अंतर्गत  the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955 .
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and  mgm 's हमारी गिरोह पैकेज ( अभी स्वामित्व by warner भाईs. entertainment ) have चूंकि remained in अनुप्रयोग , साथ आवधिक नई प्रोडक्शन्स आधारित on the शॉर्ट्स surfacing over the सालो , सहित a 1994 छोटी  Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures .
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias Jansen or Sacharias Jansen ) (  b.1580-88 , d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) थी a डच spectacle-maker इससे middelburg संबद्ध साथ the आविष्कार of the पहला ऑप्टिकल दूरदर्शी  .
Janssen is  sometimes भी credited लिये inventing the  first truly compound microscope .
However , the  उत्पत्ति of the सूक्ष्मदर्शी , बस जैसे the उत्पत्ति of the  telescope , is a matter of debate .
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a  विशाल freshwater झील in the सिएरा नेवाडा of the संयुक्त  States .
At a surface elevation  of , it is स्तिथ साथ the किनारा between कैलिफ़ोर्निया और नेवाडा  , west of Carson City .
Lake  tahoe is the largest अल्पाइन  lake in North America .
Its depth is , making it the United State 's second-deepest (  the deepest is crater झील in ऑरेगॉन , होने deeper  , at ) .
Additionally , Lake Tahoe is  सूचीबद्ध as the 26th largest झील by आवाज़ in the संसार  at .
The lake was  formed परिचय 2 लाख सालो पहले और is a भाग of the झील tahoe जलाशय  with the modern lake being shaped during the ice ages .
It is  ज्ञात लिये the स्पष्टता of इसके जल और  the panorama of surrounding mountains on all sides .
The area  surrounding the झील is भी referred to as झील  Tahoe , or simply Tahoe .
Lake Tahoe is a major tourist  आकर्षण in दोनो नेवाडा और कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
It is home  to a क्रमांक of स्की रिसॉर्ट , गर्मियाँ बाहरी मनोरंजन  , and tourist attractions .
Snow and skiing are a  significant भाग of the क्षेत्रफल 's अर्थव्यवस्था  and reputation .
पहाड़ और झील नजारा हैं आकर्षण  throughout the year .
The Nevada side also  शामिल विशाल कसीनो  .
Highways provide  year-round अभिगम इससे रेनो , कार्सन  City , and Sacramento .
Page 1 of the Twenty-seventh Amendment  's प्रमाणन in the नेशनल  Archives
Page 2  of the amendment 's प्रमाणन
Page 3 of  the amendment 's प्रमाणन
The Twenty-seventh Amendment ( Amendment XXVII )  prohibits कोई विधि कि increases or decreases the सैलरी of सदस्यों of the कॉंग्रेस इससे लेने प्रभाव जबतक  the start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives .
It is  the सबसे हाल amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution .
It was submitted  to the राज्य लिये अनुसमर्थन in 1789 और थी  adopted in 1992 .
“First they came ... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to  पादरी मार्टिन niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) परिचय the सुस्ती of जर्मनी intellectuals following the nazis ' वृद्धि to शक्ति और the subsequent purging of उनके चुनी लक्ष्य , समूह बाद समूह .
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the  quotation और जब it थी निर्मित ; the सामग्री of the quotation may have महरूम प्रस्तुत differently by niemöller  on different occasions .
This list of islands by area includes  सब आइलैंड्स in the संसार वृहद than 2,500 km2 ( ) और अनेक अन्य आइलैंड्स over 500 km2 ( ) , sorted in  descending order by area .
For comparison ,  महाद्वीपों हैं भी  shown .
Four  तिहाई लोगो
The Four Thirds system is a  मानक निर्मित by ओलम्पस और कोडक लिये डिजिटल single-lens reflex  camera ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that , with digital cameras and  lenses उपलब्धियाँ इससे अनेक निर्माताओं , allows लिये the इंटरचेंज of lenses  and bodies from different manufacturers .
seems to कवर the मानक  .
Proponents describe  it as an खोलें मानक , लकिन कंपनियाँ may तभी उपयोग it  under a non-disclosure agreement .
Unlike older SLR  प्रणालियों , चार तिहाई रै महरूम designed इससे the मैदान  up to be entirely digital .
अनेक lenses हैं extensively computerized , to the पाइंट कि ओलम्पस offers  firmware updates for many of them .
Lens design has been tailored to the requirements of  डिजिटल सेंसर , सबसे notably through telecentric  designs .
The size of the sensor is  significantly छोटी than लिये सबसे dslrs और इस implies कि  lenses , especially telephoto lenses , can be smaller .
For  उदाहरण , a चार तिहाई लेंस साथ a 300 mm फोकल लंबाई होता कवर परिचय the वही कोण of दृश्य as a 600  mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film standard , and is correspondingly more compact .
Thus , the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of  परिचय 2 , और जबकि इस enables longer फोकल लंबाई लिये वृहद आवर्धन , it करता n't सहायता the manufacture  of wide angle lenses .
The image sensor format , generally  इंटरमीडिएट between those of larger slrs और छोटी कॉम्पैक्ट कैमरे , generally देता स्तर of लागत  , performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes .
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed  throughout a भवन to सप्लाई conditioned एयर to a रूम through आउटलेट vents , पुकारा diffusers ; और नलिकाएं to हटाएँ एयर through return-air  grilles .
HVAC ( heating , ventilation , and air  कंडीशनिंग ) is the प्रौद्योगिकी of अंदर और ऑटोमोटिव पर्यावरणीय  comfort .
HVAC system design is a subdiscipline of  mechanical अभियान्त्रिकी , आधारित on the सिद्धान्त of ऊष्मागतिकी , द्रव यांत्रिकी  , and heat transfer .
Refrigeration is  sometimes added to the फ़ील्ड 's संक्षिप्त as hvac & r or hvacr , or ventilating is dropped as in hacr ( ऐसे as the नामांकन  of HACR-rated circuit breakers ) .
HVAC is important  in the डिज़ाइन of मीडियम to विशाल औद्योगिक और दफ्तर इमारतें ऐसे as skyscrapers और in समुद्री environments ऐसे as एक्वैरियम , जहाँ सुरक्षित  and healthy building conditions are regulated with respect to temperature and humidity , using fresh air from outdoors .
Ventilation on the downdraught system , by  impulsion , or the 'plenum ' principle , लागू to schoolrooms  ( 1899 )
Heating , ventilating , and  एयर कंडीशनिंग is आधारित on आविष्कारों और discoveries बना by निकोलय lvov , माइकल फैराडे , विलिस वाहक , reuben trane , जेम्स जूल , विलियम rankine  , Sadi Carnot , and many others .
The invention of the components of  hvac प्रणालियों गई hand-in-hand साथ the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति , और नई विधि of modernization , उच्चतर दक्षता , और प्रणाली कंट्रोल हैं constantly introduced  by companies and inventors worldwide .
The three central functions of heating , ventilating , and air-conditioning are interrelated , especially with the need  to provide थर्मल सुकून और स्वीकार्य अंदर एयर विशेषता भीतर उचित संस्थापना  , operation , and maintenance costs .
HVAC systems can provide  वेंटिलेशन , reduce एयर घुसपैठ , और maintain दबाव संबंध between  spaces .
The means of air  डिलीवरी और हटाना इससे स्पेसेस is ज्ञात as  room air distribution .
The starting point in carrying out an estimate both for cooling and  हीटिंग depends on the exterior जलवायु और आंतरिक निर्दिष्ट  conditions .
however पहले लेने up the ऊष्मा लोड गणना , it is जरुरी to ढूँढें भैस एयर आवश्यकताएँ  for each area in detail , as pressurization is an important consideration .
In modern buildings the design , installation  , और कंट्रोल प्रणालियों of ये कृत्यों हैं एकीकृत into एक or अधिक hvac प्रणालियों  .
For very small  इमारतें , ठेकेदारों सामान्यतः क्षमता इंजीनियर और चुनें  HVAC systems and equipment .
For larger buildings , building  सेवाएं designers और इंजीनियर्स , ऐसे as mechanical , architectural , or भवन सेवाएं इंजीनियर्स analyze  , design , and specify the HVAC systems , and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them .
Building permits and code-compliance inspections  of the संस्थापना हैं सामान्यतः जरूरी  for all sizes of buildings .
The HVAC industry is a worldwide  एंटरप्राइज़ , साथ भूमिकाएँ सहित आपरेशन और मेंटेनेंस , प्रणाली डिज़ाइन और  construction , equipment manufacturing and sales , and in education and research .
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC equipment , but regulating and standards  संगठन ऐसे as hardi , ashrae , smacna , एसीसीए , वर्दी mechanical कोड , अंतरराष्ट्रीय mechanical कोड , और amca have महरूम स्थापित to support the उद्योग  and encourage high standards and achievement .
Royal Navy Commander James Bond , CMG , RNVR , is a  fictional अक्षर निर्मित by अंग्रेजों पत्रकार और उपन्यासकार  Ian Fleming in 1953 .
He is the protagonist of  the जेम्स बंध श्रेणी of novels , films , कॉमिक्स  and video games .
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and two short story collections before his death ,  हालांकि the पिछला दो books— the man साथ the सुनहरी गन और octopussy और the जीना daylights —were प्रकाशित  posthumously .
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent  , कोड क्रमांक 007 ,  residing in London but active internationally .
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew  दौरान उसके सेवा in the नवल प्रज्ञा प्रभाग दौरान संसार युद्ध ii , to जिसको फ्लेमिंग added उसके अपना स्टाइल और a क्रमांक of उसके  own tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated from American ornithologist James Bond .
Bond has a number of character traits which run throughout the books , including an  enjoyment of गाड़ियाँ , a प्रेम of खाना और पेय , और an औसत सेवन of साठ custom-made  cigarettes a day .
Since Fleming 's death in 1964 , there have been other  authorised लेखक of बंध सामग्री , सहित जॉन गार्डनर , जो लिखा चौदह novels और दो novelizations और रेमंड बेंसन , जो लिखा छह  novels , three novelizations and three short stories .
There have also been three authors who wrote one  किताब प्रत्येक , किंग्सले एमिस ( लिखने as रॉबर्ट markham ) , सेबेस्टियन faulks  and Jeffery Deaver .
Additionally a series of  novels आधारित on बंध 's youth— यंग बंध —was  written by Charlie Higson .
As spin-offs from the literary works , there was  a टेलीविज़न अनुकूलन of the पहला अनोखा , कसीनो royale , in जिससे बंध थी निभाई as  an American agent .
A comic strip series  भी भागा in the रोज़  Express newspaper .
There have  भी महरूम twenty-five बंध films ; सात अभिनेताओं have निभाई  Bond in these films .
``  प्रकृति लड़के '' is a सोंग by ईडन ahbez ,  published in 1947 .
The song tells a fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy ... who wandered very far ''  तभी to सीख कि `` the महानतम बात ... थी बस to प्रेम और be loved in  return '' .
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the song was a major hit and `` Nature  लड़के '' रै चूंकि become a पॉप और जैज़ मानक , साथ  dozens of major artists interpreting the song .
Louisiana ( or ; , ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la  lwizyàn ) is a राज्य स्तिथ in the दक्षिणी प्रदेश of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका  .
Louisiana  is the 31st सबसे extensive और the  25th most populous of the 50 United States .
Its  पूंजी is baton रूज और largest नगर  is New Orleans .
Louisiana is  the तभी राज्य in the u.S. साथ राजनैतिक subdivisions termed parishes , जिससे हैं लोकल सरकारी 's  equivalent to counties .
The largest parish by population is East Baton  रूज मोहल्ला , और the largest by जमीन क्षेत्रफल is cameron  Parish .
Much of the state 's  lands यहूद formed इससे sediment धोया bas the मिसिसिपी नदी , leaving विशाल  deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp .
These  contain a समृद्ध दक्षिणी biota ; ठेठ उदाहरण शामिल  birds such as ibis and egrets .
There are also many species of  पेड़ मेंढक , और मछली ऐसे as sturgeon और  paddlefish .
in अधिक elevated क्षेत्रों , आग is a प्राकृतिक प्रक्रम in the लैंडस्केप , और रै उत्पादित  extensive areas of longleaf pine forest and wet savannas .
These support an  exceptional विशाल क्रमांक of संयंत्र प्रजाति , सहित अनेक प्रजाति of orchids और मांसाहारी  plants .
Some Louisiana urban environments have a  multicultural , बहुभाषी विरासत , होने so strongly बहकावे by an जिसमें of 18th-century फ्रेंच , स्पेनी , देशी अमरीकी ( भारतीय  ) and African cultures that they are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S .
Before the  अमरीकी खरीदें of the territory , the वर्तमान louisiana  State had been both a Spanish and French colony .
In addition , the pattern of development included  importing numerous अफ़्रीकी स्लेव in the 18th सदी , साथ अनेक इससे the वही प्रदेश of वेस्ट  Africa , thus concentrating their culture .
In the post-Civil War environment , Anglo-Americans increased the  दबाव लिये anglicization , और in 1915 , अंग्रेज़ी थी बना the तभी आधिकारिक भाषा  of the state .
Women  's अधिकारों हैं the अधिकारों और entitlements claimed लिये महिलाओं और लड़कियों  of many societies worldwide .
In some places  ये अधिकारों हैं institutionalized or समर्थित by विधि , लोकल कस्टम , और आचरण , whereas in  others they may be ignored or suppressed .
They differ from broader notions of human rights through  दावा of an अंतर्निहित ऐतिहासिक और परंपरागत पूर्वाग्रह विरूद्ध the कसरत of अधिकारों by महिलाओं और लड़कियों in  favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of  महिलाओं 's अधिकारों शामिल , हालांकि हैं नहीं सीमित to , the सही : to bodily अखंडता और स्वायत्तता ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or बराबर अदा ; to अपना प्रॉपर्टी ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the सैन्य or be conscripted  ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
The laws of  विज्ञान or वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं कथन कि describe , भविष्यवाणी , और शायद बताइये क्यों , a दायरा of  phenomena behave as they appear to in nature .
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate , accurate  , व्यापक or सीमित theories , in सब प्राकृतिक वैज्ञानिक disciplines ( भौतिकी , रसायन , जीवविज्ञान , भूविज्ञान , खगोलशास्त्र  etc . ) .
An analogous  पद लिये a वैज्ञानिक विधि is a principle  .
वैज्ञानिक विधिs:
summarize a  विशाल संग्रहण of तथ्य संकल्पित by प्रयोग into a सिंगल  statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or  अनेक कथन or समीकरण , or at तनिक stated in a सिंगल वाक्य , so कि it can be प्रयुक्त to भविष्यवाणी the निष्कर्ष of an प्रयोग , दिए the आरंभिक , boundary , और अन्य शारीरिक शर्तें of the प्रक्रियाओं  which take place,
are strongly  समर्थित by अनुभवजन्य प्रमाण - वे हैं वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान  that experiments have repeatedly verified ( and never falsified ) .
Their  सटीकता करता नहीं बदलें जब नई theories हैं worked आउट , लकिन बल्कि the पैमाना of अनुप्रयोग , चूंकि the समीकरण  ( if any ) representing the law does not change .
As with other scientific knowledge , they do not have absolute certainty like mathematical theorems or  पहचान , और it is सदा संभावित लिये a विधि to be विकल by भविष्य observations  .
हैं प्रायः कोटेड as a आधारभूत controlling influence बल्कि  than a description of observed facts .
I.e .  `` the कानून of गति  require that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates , which are  प्रस्तावित दौरान the वैज्ञानिक प्रक्रम पहले और दौरान validation by प्रयोग और अवलोकन  .
These are not laws  चूंकि वे have नहीं महरूम सत्यापित to the वही उपाधि और may नहीं be fear सामान्य , हालांकि  they may lead to the formulation of laws .
A law is a more  solidified और औपचारिक बयान , आसुत इससे दोहराया प्रयोग  .
Although the concepts of a  विधि or principle in प्रकृति is borderline to दर्शनशास्त्र , और presents the गहराई to जिससे गणित can describe प्रकृति , वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं माना इससे a वैज्ञानिक परिप्रेक्ष्य और follow the  scientific method ; they `` serve their purpose '' rather than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ) .
For example ,  whether a विधि `` refers to वास्तविकता '' is a philosophical  issue , rather than scientific .
Fundamentally , all scientific laws follow from physics , laws which occur in other  sciences ultimately follow इससे शारीरिक कानून  .
Often , from  mathematically आधारभूत viewpoints , सार्वभौमिक स्थिरांक emerge  from scientific laws .
The launch of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese market on  10 नवम्बर 2006 चिह्नित the दूसरी प्रमुख सातवाँ पीढी entertainment प्रणाली to  be released .
The system was  released सात दिनों बाद on 17 नवम्बर  in the United States .
Introduction into other world markets was  विलम्बित by a shortage of diodes लिये उपयोग in the blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी ; the यंत्र थी शुभारम्भ in यूरोपीय और  other world markets in the first half of 2007 .
लॉरेन fenmore baldwin ( formerly विलियम्स और grainger ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the सीबीएस साबुन operas the यंग और the बेचैन  and The Bold and the Beautiful , portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman .
She made her debut during the  एपीसोड airing on जनवरी 21 , 1983  .
In 1992 , Bregman began making sporadic appearances  on the बिंदास और the खूबसूरत , बाद resulting in the अक्षर migrating वहीँ fully in 1995  .
Following a guest appearance in 2000 ,  bregman लौटे to the यंग और the बेचैन on अगस्त 24 , 2001 , बाकी  on recurring status .
In  2013 , it थी घोषित कि bregman था  been placed on contract .
Much of Lauren 's history has  revolved around उसके romances साथ पॉल विलियम्स , स्कॉट grainger , sr. , और माइकल baldwin  among many others causing a fierce rivalry with Traci Abbott Connolly .
Lauren is also famous  लिये उसके long , हिंसक फंसने साथ शीला  Carter .
The  2010 एनबीए फाइनल थी the नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए ) चैंपियनशिप  series for the 2009–10 season .
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the Los Angeles Lakers ,  champions of the पश्चिमी सम्मेलन और defending एनबीए champions , और the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स , champions  of the Eastern Conference .
the लेकर्स पराजित the सेल्टिक्स , चार खेल to  three , to win the franchise 's 16th NBA championship .
The 64th edition of the championship series was played  between जून 3 और जून 17 , थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on एबीसी , और थी देखी by an औसत of 18.1 लाख  people .
The Celtics earned their  berth into the playoffs by जीतना  the Atlantic Division .
The  लेकर्स जीती the प्रशांत प्रभाग to  earn their berth .
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Miami Heat in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference First Round , the Cleveland Cavaliers in the  best-of-seven पूर्वी सम्मेलन semifinals , और defending पूर्वी सम्मेलन चैंपियन ऑरलैंडो जादू in the best-of-seven  Eastern Conference Finals .
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by  defeating the ओक्लाहोमा नगर थंडर in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन पहला गोलाकार , the यूटा जैज़ in the best-of-seven पश्चिमी सम्मेलन  Semifinals , and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals .
The NBA Finals were  अनुसूचित in the प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल संसार श्रेणी 2–3–2 सात खेल स्वरूप , साथ the लेकर्स possessing home-court लाभ  as a reward for finishing with better regular season record than the Celtics .
Repeated baskets  इससे स्टार्टर कोबे ब्रायंट , pau gasol , और रॉन artest brought the लेकर्स बंद to विजय  in Game 1 .
A record breaking performance from  रे एलन 's आठ three-point baskets ensured the सेल्टिक्स  a Game 2 triumph .
Derek Fisher ’s  11 अंक in the चौथी क्वार्टर helped the  Lakers win Game 3 .
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an  बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन in baskets by the team’s reserves , जबकि पॉल पियर्स led the टोली to a खेल 5 जीत साथ 27 अंक on 57 % शूटिंग इससे the मंजिल  .
The Lakers  avoided विलोपन by जीतना a निर्णायक खेल 6 साथ 24 अंक contributed  by their bench .
Although they  trailed the सेल्टिक्स by 13 अंक जल्दी in the तीसरा क्वार्टर , the लेकर्स rallied और जीती उनके दूसरी लगातार चैंपियनशिप  by taking over an exciting Game 7 aided by late contributions on offense by Pau Gasol and Artest and rebounding .
Bryant was named Most  मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of the फाइनल लिये उसके दूसरी  consecutive trophy .
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full seven  खेल चूंकि और तभी the चौथी चूंकि the एनबीए फाइनल लौटे to  a 2–3–2 format in .
The Laker franchise has 16  एनबीए championships ( पाँच in मिनियापोलिस , 11 in लॉस एंजिल्स ) trailing the सेल्टिक्स ' सत्रह championships  .
The NBA Finals used the  `` संसार श्रेणी '' स्वरूप in 1949 मिनियापोलिस लेकर्स पराजित the वॉशिंगटन capitols 4 खेल to 2 ; in 1953 मिनियापोलिस पराजित the नई यॉर्क knicks 4 खेल to 1 ; in 1954 मिनियापोलिस  defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3 .
The NBA would  वापसी to the 2–2–1–1–1 नेशनल हॉकी  League seven game series format until 1985 .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the  परिवार piperaceae , cultivated लिये इसके फल , जिससे is प्रायः सूखी  and used as a spice and seasoning .
the फल , ज्ञात as a peppercorn जब सूखी , is लगभग in व्यास , अंधेरा रेड जब fully  mature , and , like all drupes , contains a single seed .
peppercorns , और the मैदान pepper निकला इससे उन्हें , may be वर्णित बस as pepper , or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper ( पकाया और सूखी unripe  fruit ) , green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to south  इण्डिया , और is extensively cultivated वहीँ और elsewhere in तीव्र  regions .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer  और निर्यातक of pepper , producing 34 % of the संसार 's  Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper has  महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीनता लिये दोनो इसके फ्लेवर और as a  medicine .
Black pepper is the  संसार 's सबसे traded मसाला  .
It is one of  the सबसे आम मसाले added to यूरोपीय भोजन और इसके वंशजों  .
The  spiciness of ब्लैक pepper is due to the रासायनिक piperine , नहीं to be उलझन  with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in the  आधुनिक संसार , प्रायः युग्म  with salt .
In cardiovascular physiology ,  ejection भिन्न ( ef ) represents the आयतनी भिन्न of रक्त उत्तेजित आउट of the ventricle ( दिल )  with each heart beat or cardiac cycle .
It can be applied  to either the सही ventricle जिससे ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the बाएँ ventricle  which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian  दिल is the आर्ट कि allows सार्थक गणितीय अभिव्यक्ति  defining EF .
noninvasive हृदय इमेजिंग रै become a विश्वव्यापी यूटिलिटी enabling पढ़ाई of  cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively .
Simplified ,  ejection भिन्न is a गणितीय उत्पाद अनुमत  by cardiac imaging .
As a mathematical term , Ejection Fraction is an  एक्सटेंशन of the कार्य of एडाल्फ फिक in हृदय आउटपुट  .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography , Magnetic Resonance  इमेजिंग और muga स्कैनिंग have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित  regarding Ischemia , Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of  the अभियोजन in देशों साथ either the आम विधि adversarial प्रणाली , or the सिविल विधि  inquisitorial system .
The  अभियोजन is the विधिक पार्टी जिम्मेदार लिये पेश the मामला in a दण्ड  trial against an individual accused of breaking the law .
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake सबसे commonly अर्थात् a मिठाई in  the shortcake family of cakes .
Strawberry  shortcake may भी refer  to:
Strawberry Shortcake  , a अक्षर और मताधिकार निर्मित by अमरीकी  Greetings
The  shortened शीर्षक of स्ट्रॉबेरी on the  Shortcake , a Japanese romance movie .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) (  circa| 570 – circa| 8 जून 632 ) , भी transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ) , थी a धार्मिक , राजनैतिक , और सैन्य नेता इससे मक्का जो एकीकृत अरब into a सिंगल  religious polity under Islam .
He is  believed by मुसलमान और bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर और  prophet of God .
मुहम्मद is लगभग universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला नबी  sent by God for mankind .
non-muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the  founder of Islam .
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered  असली monotheistic आस्था of आदम , नूह , अब्राहम , मूसा , यीशु ,  and other prophets .
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of  मक्का , he थी अनाथ at an जल्दी आयु और brought up अंतर्गत the परवाह of उसके ताऊ  Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly as a merchant  , as खूब as a गड़रिये , और थी पहला  married by age 25 .
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the  surrounding kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ , he बाद reported कि it थी वहीँ , at आयु 40 , कि he प्राप्त उसके पहला रहस्योद्घाटन इससे  God .
तीन सालो बाद इस इवेंट मुहम्मद प्रारंभ उपदेश ये खुलासे सरेआम , proclaiming  that `` God is One `` , that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit .
islām  ) is the तभी रास्ता ( dīn ) स्वीकार्य to परमेश्वर , और कि he खुद थी a नबी और मेसेंजर  of God , in the same vein as other Islamic prophets .
Muhammad  gained few अनुसरणकर्ता जल्दी on , और थी मिले साथ दुश्मनी इससे कुछ meccan जनजातियों  ; he and his followers were treated harshly .
To  एस्केप persecution , मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of उसके अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in  Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
इस इवेंट , the हिज्र , marks the शुरूआत  of the Islamic calendar , which is also known as the Hijri Calendar .
In Medina ,  मुहम्मद संयुक्त the जनजातियों  under the Constitution of Medina .
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes , his followers , who  by तब था grown to 10,000 , took कंट्रोल of मक्का in the largely शांतिपूर्ण conquest  of Mecca .
He destroyed the pagan  मूर्तियों in the नगर और तब भेजा उसके अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to नष्ट सब of the बाकी  pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
In 632 , a few months after  returning to मदीना इससे the विदाई यात्राएं , मुहम्मद  fell ill and died .
By the time of his death , most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam ,  और he था संयुक्त अरब into a सिंगल मुस्लिम धार्मिक polity  .
The  खुलासे ( or ayah  , lit .
`` Signs [ of  परमेश्वर ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद reported receiving जबतक उसके मौत – रूप the आयतें of the  Quran , regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based .
Besides the Quran , Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions  ( सुन्नत ) हैं भी upheld by मुसलमान as the स्त्रोत  of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of  islam साथ reverence , adding the phrase सलाम be upon उसे whenever उनके names हैं उल्लेखित  .
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were  largely ऋणात्मक , appraisals in आधुनिक इतिहास have महरूम दूर  less so .
The Great Books  ( दूसरी संस्करण  )
Great Books of the Western World is a series  of किताबे originally प्रकाशित in the संयुक्त राज्य in 1952 by ब्रिटैनिका विश्वकोष inc. to उपस्थित  the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes .
The  श्रेणी is अभी in इसके दूसरी संस्करण और contains  60 volumes .
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be relevant to contemporary issues , and not only  महत्वपूर्ण in इसके ऐतिहासिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट ; it जरूर बदला rereading ; और it जरूर be a भाग of `` the ग्रेट वार्तालाप परिचय the ग्रेट विचार , '' प्रासंगिक to at तनिक 25  of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors .
Books  यहूद नहीं चुनी on the आधार of जातीय or सांस्कृतिक inclusiveness , ऐतिहासिक influence , or the सम्पादक  ' agreement with the views expressed .
`` Cocaine '' is a  सोंग लिखा और अंकित by jj cale in 1976 , लकिन भी ज्ञात as a कवर संस्करण  recorded by Eric Clapton .
Allmusic  काल्स the latter `` among [ क्लैप्टन 's ] सबसे enduringly लोकप्रिय  hits '' and notes that `` even for an artist like Clapton with a huge body of high-quality work , 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best . ''
Glyn Johns  , जो था previously worked साथ the जो , led zeppelin और the  Rolling Stones , produced the Clapton recording , which was released on Clapton 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980 .
The live version of `` Cocaine '' , from the Just One Night album  अंकित in टोकियो , charted on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 as the b-side of `` तुलसा  Time `` , which was a No . 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one of several of  cale 's गीतों अंकित by क्लैप्टन , सहित `` बाद मध्यरात्रि  `` and `` Travelin ' Light '' .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or  आपरेशन ai by the जापानी इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) और the बैटल of पर्ल हार्बर ) थी a आश्चर्य सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी  Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From  the standpoint of the defenders , the आक्रमण commenced  at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive  कार्रवाई in अनुक्रम to रखना the u.S. प्रशांत बेड़े इससे दखल साथ सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध  overseas territories of the United Kingdom , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The base was attacked by 353  जापानी सेनानी , बमवर्षक और torpedo planes in दो लहरें , शुभारम्भ इससे छह वायुयान  carriers .
All  आठ u.S. नेवी battleships यहूद  damaged , with four being sunk .
Two of these were  बाद उठाया , और साथ the बाकी चार repaired , छह battleships लौटे  to service later in the war .
The Japanese also sank or damaged three  cruisers , तीन destroyers , an anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण  ship , and one minelayer .
188 U.S.  वायुयान यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 अमेरिकी  were killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important base  संस्थापना ऐसे as the शक्ति स्टेशन , डॉकयार्ड , मेंटेनेंस , और ईंधन और torpedo भंडार सुविधाएं , as खूब as the पनडुब्बी पियर  and headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses were  लाइट : 29 वायुयान और पाँच midget submarines  lost , and 65 servicemen killed or wounded .
One Japanese sailor  थी captured .
The attack came as a profound shock to the American  लोगों और led सीधे to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into संसार युद्ध ii in दोनो the प्रशांत और यूरोपीय  theaters .
The following day (  दिसम्बर 8 ) , the संयुक्त राज्य घोषित  war on Japan .
Domestic  support लिये non-interventionism , जिससे  had been strong , disappeared .
Clandestine support of Britain (  लिये उदाहरण the neutrality पैट्रोल ) थी  replaced by active alliance .
Subsequent  परिचालन by the u.S. prompted जर्मनी और इटली to घोषित  war on the U.S. on December 11 , which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day .
There were numerous historical precedents for  unannounced सैन्य कार्रवाई by  Japan .
However , the lack  of कोई औपचारिक चेतावनी , विशेषकर जबकि negotiations यहूद स्टिल जाहिर जारी , led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
प्रोजेक्ट रनवे ऋतु 2 थी the दूसरी ऋतु of ब्रावो 's कामयाब  Project Runway , a reality competition for fashion designers .
Season 2 began  airing on दिसम्बर 7  , 2005 .
Following a nationwide search  पहले in the साल , सोलह designers यहूद चुनी as semi-finalists और brought to नई यॉर्क नगर in जून  , 2005 .
After the first challenge , called ``  सड़क to the रनवे '' , चौदह गई on to compete  as finalists .
The winning  पंक्तियां , क्लो dao , प्राप्त $ 100,000 in बीज धन to सहायता लॉन्च उसके अपना लकीर  , a 2007 Saturn Sky roadster , a spread in ELLE magazine , and a mentorship with the Banana Republic Design Team .
Winning  alongside dao थी उसके मॉडल , अनुग्रह kelsey , जो प्राप्त the elle  Magazine spread .
Michael Kors and  नीना गार्सिया लौटे as न्यायाधीशों  for the second season .
The  चौथी judging सीट घुमाया प्रत्येक सप्ताह , आधारित on  the challenge .
टिम gunn , फ़ैशन कुर्सी at पार्सन्स the नई स्कूल लिये डिज़ाइन , लौटे  as a mentor for the designers .
कारा janx बाद appeared in प्रोजेक्ट रनवे : सब सितारों  in 2012 , where she finished 7th out of 13 .
andrae gonzalo , in the वही साल , competed in the दूसरी ऋतु  of the All Stars edition placing 10th out of 13 .
an उदाहरण of a  Heraclius mule
In numismatics , a  खच्चर is a सिक्का or पदक minted साथ obverse और रिवर्स डिजाइन नहीं सामान्यतः  seen on the same piece .
These  can be जानबूझकर or उत्पादित by गलती  .
इस प्रकार of गलती is अत्यधिक sought बाद , और उदाहरण  can fetch steep prices from collectors .
The  earliest mules हैं मिला among प्राचीन यूनानी और  Roman coins .
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental , the  परिणाम of an गलत संयोजन of a नई die साथ एक कि था officially महरूम withdrawn इससे उपयोग , or the कार्य of  coiners working with dies stolen from an official mint , perhaps at a time when one of them should have been destroyed .
The name derives from the mule , the  संकर औलाद of a घोड़ा और a गधा , due to ऐसे a सिक्का having दो पहलू intended लिये अलग सिक्के  , much as a mule has parents of two different species .
This page  दस्तावेज़ the tornadoes और बवंडर  outbreaks of 2010 .
The majority of tornadoes form in the U.S.  , लकिन वे can occur लगभग anywhere अंतर्गत  the right conditions .
A lesser number occur  बाहर the u.S. , सबसे notably in भाग of neighboring दक्षिणी कनाडा दौरान the उत्तरी गोलार्ध 's गर्मियाँ  season , but are also known in South America , Europe , Asia , and Australia .
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United  राज्य in 2010 ( of जिससे at तनिक 1,266 यहूद पुष्टि ) , साथ  45 confirmed fatalities .
Elsewhere in  the संसार , 11 लोगों यहूद मारे in tornadoes , छह in अर्जेंटीना  , three in the Bahamas , one in Bangladesh , and one in Germany .
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early spring  काल , however ऐसे बदला बाद a विशाल upswing starting in लेट अप्रैल और a व्यस्त लेट वसन्त और  summer period .
The autumn  महीने यहूद थोड़ा ऊपर औसत  .
A  lymphocyte is a प्रकार of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका in the  vertebrate immune system .
Under the microscope , lymphocytes can be  विभाजित into विशाल lymphocytes और छोटी lymphocytes  .
Large granular  lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक  killer cells ( NK cells ) .
Small lymphocytes consist of  t कोशिकाएं और b कोशिकाएं .
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft 's task automation  फ्रेमवर्क , consisting of a command-line शेल और संबद्ध एनक्रिप्शन भाषा निर्मित on  .NET Framework .
PowerShell provides full access to COM  और wmi , enabling प्रशासकों to perform प्रशासनिक कार्य on दोनो लोकल  and remote Windows systems .
In PowerShell , administrative tasks are  generally performed by cmdlets ( सुनाया command-lets ) , जिससे हैं specialized .neT वर्ग implementing  a particular operation .
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together in scripts , executables ( which  हैं स्टैंडअलोन अनुप्रयोग ) , or by instantiating नियमित .neT वर्ग ( or wmi/com वस्तुएँ )  .
These work by  accessing आंकड़ा in अलग आंकड़ा स्टोर्स , जैसे the filesystem or रजिस्ट्री , जिससे हैं बना उपलब्धियाँ to  the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers .
Windows PowerShell also provides a hosting API with  जिससे the खिड़कियाँ powershell runtime can be अंतःस्थापित अंदर अन्य अनुप्रयोग  .
These applications can then use Windows PowerShell  कार्यक्षमता to implement निश्चित परिचालन , सहित those उजागर via  the graphical interface .
This capability has been used by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose its management functionality as  powershell cmdlets और प्रदाताओं और implement the आलेखीय प्रबन्धन टूल्स as powershell होस्ट जिससे invoke the  necessary cmdlets .
Other Microsoft applications  सहित microsoft एसक्यूएल सर्वर 2008 भी expose उनके प्रबन्धन इंटरफ़ेस via  PowerShell cmdlets .
With  powershell , आलेखीय interface-based प्रबन्धन अनुप्रयोग on खिड़कियाँ हैं  layered on top of Windows PowerShell .
A PowerShell  एनक्रिप्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये खिड़कियाँ उत्पाद is mandated by  the Common Engineering Criteria .
Windows PowerShell includes its own  extensive , console-based सहायता , समान to man पृष्ठों in यूनिक्स शेल , via the get-help  cmdlet .
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical  फिल्मी अभिनीत जूली एंड्रयूज , लंड वैन dyke , दाउद tomlinson , और glynis जॉन्स , उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी , और आधारित on the मरियम poppins  books series by P. L. Travers .
the फिल्मी थी निर्देशित by रॉबर्ट stevenson और लिखा by विधेयक वाल्श और डॉन dagradi  , with songs by the Sherman Brothers .
It was shot at Walt  डिज़्नी studios in burbank , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also  जीती ऑस्कर लिये बेहतरीन फिल्मी संपादन , असली म्यूज़िक स्कोर , बेहतरीन सोंग लिये `` chim chim cher-ee '' और बेहतरीन विज़ुअल  Effects , and received a total of 13 nominations .
a स्टोरी चाप is an विस्तारित or continuing कथानक in episodic storytelling मीडिया ऐसे as टेलीविज़न , कॉमिक किताबे , कॉमिक स्ट्रिप्स  , boardgames , video games , and in some cases , films .
On a television program , for  उदाहरण , the स्टोरी होता unfold over अनेक एपीसोड  .
In television , the use of the story  चाप is much अधिक आम in dramas than in comedies , विशेषकर  in soap operas .
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than newspaper comics , as most web  कॉमिक्स have पठनीय अभिलेख ऑनलाइन कि a newcomer to the स्ट्रिप can पढ़ा in अनुक्रम to समझे कया is going on  .
हालांकि स्टोरी arcs have existed लिये दशकों , the पद `` स्टोरी चाप '' थी coined  in 1988 in relation to the television series Wiseguy , and was quickly adapted for other uses .
Many American comic book series are now written in  चार or six-issue arcs , भीतर a continuing श्रेणी  .
Short story arcs are  easier to पैकेज as व्यापार paperbacks लिये पुनर्विक्रय , और अधिक accessible to the कैज़ुअल रीडर than the never-ending  continuity that once characterised comics .
Black Friday is  the दिन following थैंक्सगिविंग दिन in the संयुक्त राज्य , प्रायः regarded as the  beginning of the Christmas shopping season .
In recent years , most major retailers have opened extremely  जल्दी और offered promotional बिक्री to लात बंद the अवकाश खरीदारी ऋतु , समान to मुक्केबाज़ी दिन बिक्री in अनेक राष्ट्रमंडल राष्ट्र .
Black Friday  is नहीं an आधिकारिक पब्लिक अवकाश as ऐसे , लकिन अनेक non-retail कर्मचारी और स्कूलों have दोनो थैंक्सगिविंग और  the day after off , followed by a weekend , thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers .
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005 , although news reports ,  जिससे at कि समय यहूद inaccurate , have वर्णित it as the व्यस्ततम खरीदारी दिन of the साल लिये a much longer  period of time .
the दिन 's नाम originated in फिलाडेल्फिया , जहाँ it originally थी प्रयुक्त to describe the भारी और  disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving .
Use of the term started before 1961 and  began to देखिए broader उपयोग बाहर फिलाडेल्फिया around  1975 .
Later an alternative  स्पष्टीकरण began to be offered : कि `` ब्लैक शुक्रवार '' indicates  the point at which retailers begin to turn a profit , or are `` '' .
For many years , it  थी आम लिये रिटेलर to खोलें at 6:00 a.m. , लकिन in the लेट 2000s अनेक था  crept to 5:00 or even 4:00 .
This was taken to a new extreme in 2011 , when several retailers ( including  निशाना , kohl 's , macy 's , बेहतरीन ख़रीदे , और bealls ) खोली at मध्यरात्रि लिये  the first time .
In 2012 , Walmart and several other retailers announced that they would open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in states where  खोलने on थैंक्सगिविंग is निषिद्ध due to ब्लू कानून , ऐसे as मैसाचुसेट्स जहाँ वे स्टिल खोली around मध्यरात्रि ) ,  prompting calls for a walkout among some workers .
Black Friday shopping is known for attracting aggressive crowds , with annual  रिपोर्ट्स of assaults , shootings , और throngs of लोगों trampling on अन्य shoppers in an attempt  to get the best deal on a product before supplies run out .
The Family That Preys is a 2008 American movie  नाटक लिखा , उत्पादित , और निर्देशित by टायलर पेरी .
The screenplay  focuses on दो परिवारों , एक धनवान और the अन्य working क्लास ,  whose lives are intertwined in both love and business .
The movie is the second of four  in जिससे पेरी 's हस्ताक्षर अक्षर , madea , करता नहीं  make an appearance .
it is भी the दूसरी perry-directed फिल्मी ( alongside पापा 's छोटी लड़कियों ) कि is  not based on any of the filmmaker 's stage plays .
Net 10 , Net 15 ,  जाल 30 और जाल 60 ( भी जाल 10 दिनों , et al ) हैं फ़ॉर्म of व्यापार क्रेडिट जिससे बताएँ कि the जाल राशि ( the कुल बकाया on the चालान ) is अपेक्षित to be सशुल्क in पूरा  and received by the seller within 10 , 15 , 30 or 60 days after the goods are dispatched or service is completed .
Net 30 or Net 60 terms are  प्रायः coupled साथ a क्रेडिट लिये जल्दी भुगतान  .
The word net  in इस भाव अर्थात् `` कुल बाद सब छूट  . ''
It originally derives from the  लैटिन nitere ( to चमक ) और nitidus ( सुरुचिपूर्ण , trim ) , और अधिक recently इससे the फ्रेंच  net ( sharp , neat , clean ) .
roadtown , tortola
The British West Indies were  the आइलैंड्स in और around the caribbean कि यहूद भाग of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य  .
In 1912 , the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies : The Bahamas , Barbados ,  अंग्रेजों guiana , अंग्रेजों होंडुरास , जमैका ( साथ इसके dependencies the turks और caicos आइलैंड्स और the केमन आइलैंड्स ) , त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो , the windward आइलैंड्स और the leeward  Islands .
Between 1958 and 1962 , all of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands , the  बहामा , अंग्रेजों होंडुरास और अंग्रेजों guiana यहूद संगठित into the वेस्ट इंडीज  Federation .
It was hoped that the Federation would become  स्वतंत्र as a सिंगल स्वदेश , लकिन it था सीमित शक्तियां , अनेक व्यावहारिक समस्याएं , और a कमी of लोकप्रिय  support .
नतीजतन , the वेस्ट इंडीज संघ  was dissolved .
Most of the territories , including all the larger ones , are now independent as separate countries , with membership to many international forums  ऐसे as the संगठन of अमरीकी राज्य , the संघ of caribbean राज्य , the संसार व्यापार संगठन , the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , the caribbean जातियाँ , the राष्ट्रमंडल  of Nations and the Caribbean Development Bank among others .
The  शेष हैं अंग्रेजों  overseas territories .
All the former nations of the  अंग्रेजों वेस्ट इंडीज , मगर the राष्ट्रमंडल of डोमिनिकन , गुयाना और त्रिनिदाद और  Tobago , are Commonwealth Realms .
The term is still used for British  विदेशी territories in the caribbean , ऐसे as the केमन आइलैंड्स  .
the बाकी अंग्रेजों  West Indies
`` What a Wonderful World '' is  a सोंग लिखा by bob thiele ( as `` जार्ज डगलस '' )  and George David Weiss .
It was first recorded  by लुई आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a सिंगल in  1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both  prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार ( thiele as a निर्माता और वेइस as a composer/performer  ) .
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in  the ग्रैमी हॉल of कीर्ति in 1999  .
the प्रकाशन लिये इस सोंग is नियंत्रित by मेमोरी लेन म्यूज़िक  Group , Carlin Music Corp. , and Bug Music , Inc .
उद्घाटन दिन 2009 on the वेस्ट कदम of the  U.S. Capitol .
President George W. Bush and First  महिला लौरा बुश सीसे the inaugural परेड bas पेन्सिलवेनिया एवेन्यू to the  White House , 2005
The inauguration of the president  of the संयुक्त राज्य is a ceremonial इवेंट अंकन the शुरुआत of a नई four-year पद  of a president of the United States .
The  दिन a अध्यक्षीय उद्घाटन occurs is ज्ञात as `` उद्घाटन दिन '' और occurs  on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ) .
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment , the date was March 4 , the day of the year on which the  संविधान of the संयुक्त राज्य पहला took प्रभाव in 1789 ; the पिछला उद्घाटन to लो प्लेस on the पुरानी तिथि थी फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4 , 1933 . )
The  सबसे हाल पब्लिक अध्यक्षीय उद्घाटन रस्म , the swearing in of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा to शुरू उसके दूसरी four-year  term in office , took place on Monday , January 21 , 2013 .
The only inauguration element mandated by the  संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is कि the अध्यक्ष मेक an शपथ or प्रतिज्ञान पहले कि व्यक्ति can `` डालें on the निष्पादन ''  of the office of the presidency .
However , over the years , various traditions have arisen that have expanded the  उद्घाटन इससे a सरल oath-taking रस्म to a day-long इवेंट , सहित parades , भाषणों , और गेंदें  .
From the  प्रेसिडेंसी of एंड्रयू जैक्सन through कि of jimmy कार्टर , the  primary Inauguration Day ceremony took place on the Capitol 's East Portico .
Since the 1981  उद्घाटन of रोनाल्ड reagan , the रस्म रै महरूम आयोजित at the कैपिटल  's West Front .
the inaugurations of विलियम हावर्ड taft in  1909 and Reagan in 1985 were moved indoors at the Capitol due to cold weather .
the युद्ध of 1812 और संसार युद्ध ii caused दो inaugurations to be आयोजित  at other locations in Washington , D.C .
When George Washington was inaugurated , the oath  थी administered by रॉबर्ट livingston , चांसलर of नई यॉर्क राज्य , in 1789 , और by विलियम cushing , संबद्ध इंसाफ of the  Supreme Court , in 1793 .
Since Chief Justice Oliver  एल्सवर्थ swore in अध्यक्ष जॉन एडम्स , no मुख्य इंसाफ रै  missed an Inauguration Day .
जब उद्घाटन दिन रै गिरे on a संडे , the मुख्य इंसाफ रै administered the शपथ to the  president on the Sunday privately and then again the next day publicly .
जब a नई अध्यक्ष takes over mid-term due to the मौत or इस्तीफा of a अध्यक्ष  , the oath of office is administered but formal , public inauguration events have not been held .
stefani जोआन एंजेलीना germanotta ( ; born कूच 28 , 1986 ) , ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम महिला गागा , is an अमरीकी सिंगर , songwriter , रिकार्ड निर्माता ,  dancer , activist , businesswoman , fashion designer , actress and philanthropist .
Born and raised in New York City , she primarily studied at the Convent of  the पवित्र दिल और briefly attended नई यॉर्क विश्वविद्यालयों 's tisch स्कूल of the कला पहले withdrawing to फ़ोकस on उसके musical  career .
She soon  began performing in the चट्टान म्यूज़िक झाँकी of मैनहटन  's Lower East Side .
By  the समाप्त of 2007 , रिकार्ड कार्यपालिका और निर्माता विंसेंट  Herbert signed her to his label Streamline Records , an imprint of Interscope Records .
initially working as a songwriter at interscope रिकॉर्ड , उसके गायन abilities captured the ध्यान of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार एकॉन , जो भी हस्ताक्षरित  her to Kon Live Distribution , his own label under Interscope .
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording artist following the release of her debut album , The Fame ( 2008 ) , which was a critical and commercial success that topped charts  around the संसार और शामिल the अंतरराष्ट्रीय number-one singles `` बस नृत्य `` और `` पोकर  Face `` .
After embarking on the The  कीर्ति बॉल दौरे , वो followed the एल्बम साथ the कीर्ति दानव ( 2009 ) , जिससे शाखित the विश्वव्यापी hit singles  `` Bad Romance `` , `` Telephone `` , and `` Alejandro `` .
The Fame Monsters success allowed her to embark on  the eighteen-month long दानव बॉल दौरे , जिससे बाद became एक of the highest-grossing  concert tours of all time .
Her most recent album , Born This Way ( 2011 ) ,  अव्वल the चार्ट of सबसे प्रमुख बाज़ार और उत्पन्न अधिक अंतरराष्ट्रीय chart-topping singles , सहित `` born इस रास्ता `` , ``  Judas `` , and `` The Edge of Glory `` .
Influenced by Britney Spears , David Bowie , Michael Jackson , Madonna , and Queen , Lady Gaga is recognized for her flamboyant  , विविध और outré योगदान to the म्यूज़िक उद्योग through उसके फ़ैशन , प्रदर्शन और म्यूज़िक वीडियो  .
As of October 2011 , she has sold an estimated 23  लाख एल्बम और 64 लाख singles विश्वव्यापी और उसके singles हैं कुछ of the best-selling विश्वव्यापी  .
Her  उपलब्धियाँ शामिल पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और  13 MTV Video Music Awards .
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ) , ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest Women in Music , is the sixth best selling digital  singles कलाकार in us according to riaa , is regularly लगाई on सूचियाँ रचित by फोर्ब्स पत्रिका और थी नामित एक of the सबसे influential लोगों in the संसार by  Time magazine .
Besides her musical career ,  वो involves herself साथ humanitarian कल्याणकारी  and LGBT activism .
mckethan स्टेडियम घर  of Gator baseball
A  चित्र of the 1924 बेसबॉल  team
The Florida  gators बेसबॉल टोली represents the विश्वविद्यालयों of फ्लोरिडा  in the sport of baseball .
The Florida Gators compete in Division I of the National Collegiate  एथलेटिक्स संघ ( ncaa ) , और the पूर्वी प्रभाग of the  Southeastern Conference ( SEC ) .
They play their home games in Alfred A.  mckethan स्टेडियम on the विश्वविद्यालयों 's gainesville  , Florida campus , and are currently led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan .
In the ninety-eight season history of the Gators baseball program , the  टोली रै जीती बारह सेक championships और रै appeared in आठ कॉलेज संसार  Series tournaments .
``  electioneering ''  redirects here .
लिये the radiohead  song , see OK Computer .
Presidential campaign  बटन लिये अब्राहम lincoln , 1860  .
the रिवर्स पक्ष of the बटन shows a पोर्ट्रेट of उसके  running mate Hannibal Hamlin .
A political campaign is  an व्यवस्थित प्रयत्न जिससे seeks to influence the निर्णय बनाना प्रक्रम  within a specific group .
In  democracies , राजनैतिक अभियान प्रायः refer to चुनावी अभियान , wherein प्रतिनिधि  are chosen or referendums are decided .
In modern politics , the most high profile political  अभियान हैं केन्द्रित on उम्मीदवार लिये सिर of राज्य or सिर of सरकारी , प्रायः a अध्यक्ष or प्रधान मंत्री  .
एलिज़ाबेथ cady stanton और उसके  daughter , Harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12 , 1815 – October 26  , 1902 ) थी an अमरीकी सोशल activist , abolitionist , और अग्रणी फिगर of the जल्दी  women 's rights movement .
Her Declaration of Sentiments , presented at the first women 's rights convention held in  1848 in seneca जलप्रपात , नई यॉर्क , is प्रायः credited साथ initiating the पहला व्यवस्थित महिलाओं 's अधिकारों और  women 's suffrage movements in the United States .
Before Stanton  narrowed उसके राजनैतिक फ़ोकस लगभग exclusively to महिलाओं 's अधिकारों , वो थी an क्रियाशील abolitionist साथ  with her husband , Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin , Gerrit Smith .
Unlike many of  those शामिल in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति , stanton addressed विभिन्न मुद्दे pertaining  to women beyond voting rights .
Her concerns included women 's parental and custody rights ,  प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों , नियुक्ति और आय अधिकारों , तलाक , the आर्थिक स्वास्थ्य of the परिवार ,  and birth control .
She was also an outspoken supporter of the  19th-century temperance गति  .
After the American Civil War , Stanton 's  प्रतिबद्धता to मादा suffrage caused a schism in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों गति जब वो , साथ साथ सुसान B. एंथोनी , अस्वीकृत  to support passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution .
She opposed giving added legal protection and voting rights to  अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी मेन जबकि महिलाओं , ब्लैक और श्वेत , यहूद अस्वीकृत  those same rights .
Her position on this issue , together with her thoughts on organized  christianity और महिलाओं 's मुद्दे परे मतदान अधिकारों , led to the गठन of दो पृथक महिलाओं 's अधिकारों संगठन कि यहूद आखिरकार rejoined , साथ stanton as अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त संगठन , लगभग  twenty years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement .
Stanton died in  1902 having authored दोनो the स्त्री 's बाइबल और उसके आत्मकथा , साथ  with many articles and pamphlets concerning female suffrage and women 's rights .
My Fair Lady is a  musical आधारित upon जार्ज बर्नार्ड शॉ 's pygmalion और साथ किताब और  lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe .
The story concerns Eliza Doolittle , a Cockney flower girl  जो takes वाक lessons इससे प्राध्यापक हेनरी हिगिंस , a phoneticist , so कि वो may  pass as a well-born lady .
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit , setting what was then the record  लिये the longest चलाएं of कोई प्रमुख musical थिएटर उत्पादन in इतिहास  .
It was followed by a  hit लंदन उत्पादन , a लोकप्रिय फिल्मी संस्करण  , and numerous revivals .
It has been  पुकारा `` the पूर्ण musical  '' .
deregulation is the अधिनियम or प्रक्रम of निकालना  or reducing state regulations .
It is therefore opposite of  विनियमन , जिससे refers to the प्रक्रम of the सरकारी regulating निश्चित  activities .
The Boston  bruins रेडियो संजाल is a 25-station ( 17 a.M. , 8 f.m . प्लस 2 f.m . अनुवादक ) सीबीएस रेडियो संजाल जिससे carries सजीव खेल प्रसारण  of the Boston Bruins .
The network  's फ्लैगशिप स्टेशन is wbz-fm  /98.5- Boston , Massachusetts .
Dave  goucher announces play-by-play  .
Bob  beers provides रंग commentary  .
This  आलेख is परिचय the छोटी स्टोरी  .
For the poem by Sara Teasdale ,  देखिए वहीँ होगा आइये नरम  Rains .
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a  छोटी स्टोरी by विज्ञान fiction लेखक रे bradbury जिससे थी  first published in the May 6 , 1950 issue of Collier 's .
Later that same year  the स्टोरी थी शामिल in bradbury 's the martian  Chronicles ( 1950 ) .
With  over 1.2 अरब लोगों , हान चाइनीज is the largest जातीय  group in the world .
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region , which sits in an area between  दक्षिण of the हिन्दू कुश in अफगानिस्तान और the सिंधु नदी in पाकिस्तानी  .
वे क्रमांक around  50 million .
The Korowai people  of पापुआ गिने बस around 3,000  people , and were uncontacted until the 1970s .
Ethnicity or ethnic group is  a socially पारिभाषित श्रेणी आधारित on आम संस्कृति or  nationality .
Ethnicity can , but does not have to , include common  ancestry , रूप , भोजन , ड्रेसिंग स्टाइल , विरासत , इतिहास , भाषा or dialect , धर्म  , symbols , traditions , or other cultural factor .
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced  through आम विशेषताएँ जिससे नियत the समूह अलावा  from other groups .
The  19.9 mw gemasolar सौर संयंत्र in स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार  and can supply power 24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the  सूर्य , रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स using  a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity ,  सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis , जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान to solving कुछ of the सबसे तात्कालिक उर्जा समस्याएं the संसार  now faces .
Solar  technologies हैं broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर  , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels  और सौर थर्मल collectors to दोहन the  energy .
Passive solar techniques include  orienting a भवन to the सूर्य , selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण , और डिजाइनिंग  spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable , inexhaustible  और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have विशाल longer-term लाभ  .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource , enhance  स्थिरता , reduce प्रदूषण , निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating जलवायु बदलें , और रखना चट्टान ईंधन  prices lower than otherwise .
These  लाभ हैं वैश्विक  .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for  जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; वे जरूर be  wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved from a  पश्चिमी किस्में of the यूनानी वर्णमाला पुकारा the cumaean वर्णमाला , जिससे थी अपनाया और परिवर्धित by the etruscans  who ruled early Rome .
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn adopted and  further परिवर्धित by the प्राचीन romans to लिखें the  Latin language .
During the Middle Ages , the Latin  वर्णमाला थी adapted to रोमांस भाषाएं , सीधा वंशजों of लैटिन  , as well as to Celtic , Germanic , Baltic , and some Slavic languages .
With the  आयु of उपनिवेशवाद और ईसाई इंजीलवाद , the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट थी स्प्रेड विदेशी , और लागू to स्वदेशी  American , Australian , Austronesian , Austroasiatic , and African languages .
More  recently , linguists have भी tended to prefer the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट or the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ध्वन्यात्मक वर्णमाला ( itself largely आधारित on लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट ) जब transcribing or बनाना लिखा मानकों  for non-European languages , such as the African reference alphabet .
The term Latin alphabet may  refer to either the वर्णमाला प्रयुक्त to लिखें लैटिन ( as वर्णित in इस आलेख ) , or अन्य alphabets आधारित on the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट  , which is the basic set of letters common to the various alphabets descended from the classical Latin one , such as the English alphabet .
These Latin-derived alphabets may  छोड़ें अक्षर , जैसे the rotokas वर्णमाला , or add नई अक्षर , जैसे the डैनिश और नॉर्वेजियाई  alphabet .
Letter shapes  have बदला over the सदियां , सहित the सृष्टि लिये मध्यकालीन लैटिन  of lower case forms which did not exist in the Classical period .
The assassination of United States President Abraham Lincoln took place on Good Friday  , अप्रैल 14 , 1865 , as the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी आरेखण  to a close .
The assassination occurred  पाँच दिनों बाद the कमांडर of the confederate फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया , सामान्य रॉबर्ट E. ली  , surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac .
Lincoln was the first American president to be  assassinated , हालांकि an unsuccessful attempt था महरूम बना on एंड्रयू जैक्सन 30 सालो पहले  in 1835 .
The  हत्या थी नियोजित और carried आउट by the well-known स्टेज कर्ता जॉन wilkes बूथ , as भाग of  a larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the Confederate cause .
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David Herold , who  यहूद आबंटित to मार सचिव of राज्य विलियम H. seward , और जार्ज atzerodt  who was to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson .
By simultaneously  eliminating the शीर्ष तीन लोगों in the प्रशासन , बूथ और उसके co-conspirators  hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government .
Lincoln was shot while watching the play Our American  cousin साथ उसके बीवी मरियम टॉड lincoln at घाट 's थिएटर in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. on the रात्रि of अप्रैल 14  , 1865 .
He died early  the अगला morning  .
The  बाकी of the षड्यंत्रकारियों ' प्लाट विफल ; पावेल तभी प्रबंधित to घाव seward , जबकि  Atzerodt , Johnson 's would-be assassin , lost his nerve and fled Washington .
add-on might  mean:
Plug-in ( computing ) , a  टुकड़ा of तन्त्र जिससे enhances another तन्त्र अनुप्रयोग और प्रायः  can not be run independently
ब्राउजर एक्सटेंशन , जिससे modifies the  interface and/or behavior of web browsers
add-on ( मोज़िला ) , a टुकड़ा of तन्त्र कि enhances और customizes  Mozilla-based applications
Add-ons for Firefox (  addons.mozilla.org ) , the आधिकारिक मोज़िला न्यास वेब साईट जिससे serves as a repository of add-ons लिये mozilla-based  applications
Peripheral , an optional  कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर घटक कि significantly पूरक or enhances  the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory , a piece of  हार्डवेयर प्रयुक्त in संयोजन साथ a वीडियो खेल कंसोल लिये playing वीडियो खेल
Club level seating is a special  खण्ड of seating in आधुनिक खेल  stadiums .
The Club Level is  प्रायः स्तिथ towards the मध्य of the स्टेज of seating भाग  , above the lower deck but below the upper deck .
They are  प्रायः सही अगला to the लक्ज़री बाक्स , either सही ऊपर , सही नीचे , or sandwiched  between two levels of Luxury Boxes .
Club Level seating is considered as higher class than  बैठे anywhere else in the एरिना , लकिन निम्नतर क्लास compared  to the Luxury Boxes .
Unlike the Luxury Boxes , most club levels  do नहीं रैप entirely around the एरिना .
Some club levels  रोकें at a निश्चित पाइंट , giving रास्ता to an विस्तार of the मेज़ानाइन , जबकि अन्य दे रास्ता to निम्नतर  class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ) .
A notable exception to this is Emirates Stadium in London  , जिससे रै a पूरा टियर of क्लबों seating  .
Club Levels  allow प्रशंसक अनेक स्तर of entertainment  .
Club Level seating is open to the elements , as opposed to the  entirely enclosed लक्ज़री बाक्स , जिससे देता अधिक of an बाहरी छाप at roofless  and open-roof stadiums and arenas .
Club Level seating is  सामान्यतः खरीदा on a अनुबंध आधार to allow लिये अधिकतम लाभ  on the part of the stadium .
The Club Level  provides प्रशंसक साथ खास अभिगम to an अंदर भाग of the  arena exclusive to fans with special tickets .
These areas are air conditioned and allow  अभिगम to खास रेस्तरां , merchandise स्टैंड , और लाउंज क्षेत्रों of the स्टेडियम  that are not otherwise available .
Concession stands and vendors on  the क्लबों स्तर भी प्रायः प्रस्ताव अलग मेनू than in अन्य स्टैंड to दे अधिक of a खास महसूस to  the Club .
These areas are closed off to the rest of the stadium , and they  प्रायः can तभी be पहुँचा through the विशेष , निजी क्लबों entrances  .
Sophia Loren ( ; born  सोफिया villani scicolone ; 20 सितंबर  1934 ) is an Italian actress .
लोरेन is widely पहचाना as इटली 's सबसे  renowned and honored actress .
She was the first actress of the talkie era to win an Academy Award for a non-English-speaking  प्रदर्शन , लिये उसके portrayal of cesira in vittorio de सिका 's दो महिलाओं  .
Her other awards include a Grammy Award ,  पाँच खास सुनहरी ग्लोब्स , a bafta पुरस्कार और a लॉरेल पुरस्कार  .
In 1995 she  प्राप्त the सेसिल B. demille पुरस्कार लिये आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ  , one of many such awards .
Her  films शामिल : houseboat ( 1958 ) , el सीआईडी ( 1961 ) , कल , आज और कल ( 1963 ) , विवाह  Italian-Style ( 1964 ) , and A Special Day ( 1977 ) .
In later years she has appeared in  अमरीकी blockbusters ऐसे as grumpier बूढ़ा मेन ( 1995 ) , और  Nine ( 2009 ) .
In  1994 वो स्ट्रक्चर in रॉबर्ट altman 's prêt-à-porter , जिससे अर्जित उसके a सुनहरी  Globe nomination the same year .
She has also achieved  नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी in tv फिल्मों ऐसे as हिम्मत  ( 1986 ) .
Deaths  लिये self-inflicted चोटों प्रति 100,000 निवासियों  in 2004 .
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to both  धार्मिक और सोशल pressures , और संभवतः completely  unreported in some areas .
Nevertheless , from  reported मामले , निश्चित रुझान हैं  apparent .
Since  the आंकड़ा is skewed , comparing आत्महत्या दरों between राष्ट्र is statistically  unsound .
The  रुझान themselves हैं नहीं the कारण , लकिन may  be indicative of a root cause .
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls - South  अफ़्रीकी is a मादा बोर्डिंग स्कूल संस्थापित in जनवरी 2007 और स्तिथ in henley on klip निकट meyerton  , south of Johannesburg , South Africa .
The academy was founded by Oprah  विनफ्रे साथ the लक्ष्य of providing शैक्षणिक और नेतृत्व अवसर  for academically gifted girls from impoverished backgrounds .
Oprah  विनफ्रे नेतृत्व  Academy for Girls
Digicel is a mobile phone  संजाल प्रदाता ऑपरेटिंग in 31 बाज़ार आरपार the caribbean  , Central America , and Oceania regions .
The company is owned by Irishman Denis  o'brien , is incorporated in बरमूडा , और आधारित in  Jamaica .
It has  परिचय 13 लाख बेतार उपयोक्ता  .
As of 2012 , Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla , Antigua  और बारबूडा , अरूबा , बारबाडोस , बरमूडा , bonaire , the अंग्रेजों वर्जिन आइलैंड्स , the केमन आइलैंड्स , कुराकाओ , डोमिनिकन , el साल्वाडोर , फिजी , फ्रेंच guiana , हरा , guadeloupe , गुयाना , हैती , जमैका , मार्टीनिक , प्रकृति , पनामा  , Papua New Guinea , Samoa , Saint Kitts and Nevis , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Suriname , Tonga , Trinidad & Tobago , Turks and Caicos , and Vanuatu .
This is a  सूची of रिकॉर्ड of the फीफा संसार कप और इसके  qualification matches .
Hospital Emergency  कोड हैं प्रयुक्त in अस्पताल विश्वव्यापी to चेतावनी  staff to various emergencies .
The  उपयोग of कोड is intended to convey अनिवार्य सूचना जल्दी और साथ  minimal misunderstanding to staff , while preventing stress and panic among visitors to the hospital .
These codes may be posted on placards throughout  the हॉस्पिटल , or मुद्रित on कर्मचारी पहचान बैज लिये तैयार सन्दर्भ  .
Back of a  हॉस्पिटल id बैज  showing disaster codes .
Hospital  आपात कोड may denote अलग कार्यक्रम at  different hospitals , including nearby ones .
क्युकी अनेक physicians कार्य at अधिक than एक सुविधा , इस may सीसे to भ्रम  in emergencies , so uniform systems have been proposed .
the रूट of the eifel जलसेतु ,  with its average slope .
The Eifel  जलसेतु थी एक of the longest aqueducts  of the Roman Empire .
The  जलसेतु , constructed in ad 80 , carried जल कुछ इससे the hilly eifel प्रदेश of कया is अभी जर्मनी  to the ancient city of Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ) .
If the auxiliary  स्पर्स to अतिरिक्त स्रोतों हैं शामिल , the  length was .
The construction was almost entirely  नीचे मैदान , और the प्रवाह of the जल थी उत्पादित entirely  by gravity .
A  few पुलों , सहित एक up to in लंबाई  , were needed to pass over valleys .
Unlike some of the other famous Roman aqueducts , the Eifel aqueduct was specifically  designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it इससे क्षति और जमने  .
In chemistry , a disulfide  बंध ( br.e . disulphide बंध ) is a covalent बंध , प्रायः निकला  by the coupling of two thiol groups .
The linkage is  भी पुकारा an ss-bond or disulfide  bridge .
The overall  कनेक्टिविटी is इसलिए r-s-s-r  .
the शब्दावली is widely प्रयुक्त  in biochemistry .
In formal terms , the  कनेक्शन is a persulfide , in सादृश्य to इसके congener , परऑक्साइड ( r-o-o-r ) , लकिन इस शब्दावली is अस्पष्ट और  is no longer used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ) .
Formal  चित्रण of disulfide बंध गठन as an ऑक्सीकरण  .
Westminster Abbey is  प्रयुक्त लिये the राजतिलक of अंग्रेजों monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the countries that preceded it , has been dominated ,  लिये over 1,400 सालो , by विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of christianity  .
According to some surveys , a majority of citizens still identify with Christianity , although regular  गिरिजाघर उपस्थिति रै गिरे dramatically चूंकि the मध्य of the 20th सदी , और आव्रजन और जनसांख्यिकी बदलें have contributed  to the growth of other faiths .
Religious affiliations of UK  नागरिकों हैं अंकित by नियमित सर्वेक्षण , the चार प्रमुख ones होने the uk जनसांख्यिकी , the श्रमिक फ़ोर्स सर्वेक्षण , the अंग्रेजों सोशल attitudes  survey and the European Social Survey .
According to the 2001 UK census , Christianity is the major religion , followed by Islam ,  हिंदुत्व , sikhism , judaism और buddhism in शर्तें of क्रमांक of  adherents .
This , and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or  no धार्मिक संबद्धों रै led टीकाकारों to variously describe the संयुक्त किंगडम as a multi-faith , secularised , or post-christian  society .
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from  1707 , और नतीजतन सबसे of the largest धार्मिक समूह do नहीं have uk-wide organisational  structures .
While some groups have separate structures for the individual countries of the  संयुक्त किंगडम , अन्य may have a सिंगल ढांचा covering इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स or ग्रेट  Britain .
Similarly , due to  the अपेक्षाकृत हाल सृष्टि of उत्तरी आयरलैंड in 1921 , सबसे प्रमुख धार्मिक समूह in उत्तरी आयरलैंड हैं संगठित  on an all-Ireland basis .
The  1967 न्यूर्क दंगे यहूद a प्रमुख सिविल disturbance कि occurred in the नगर of न्यूर्क  , New Jersey between July 12 and July 17 , 1967 .
The six days of rioting ,  लूटने , और विनाश बाएँ 26 मुर्दे और सैंकड़ों  injured .
In United States college athletics , redshirt  is a विलंब or बर्खास्तगी of an खिलाड़ी 's भागीदारी in अनुक्रम to lengthen उसके or उसके काल  of eligibility .
Typically , a student  's एथलेटिक पात्रता in a दिए खेल is चार सीज़न , a क्रमांक निकला इससे the चार सालो of अकादमिक  classes that are normally required to obtain a bachelor 's degree at an American college or university .
However , a student athlete may be offered the opportunity to  redshirt लिये up to दो सालो , जिससे allows the खिलाड़ी to स्प्रेड those चार सालो of पात्रता over पाँच , or sometimes छह  years .
In a redshirt  साल , a छात्र खिलाड़ी may attend वर्ग at the कॉलेज or विश्वविद्यालयों , अभ्यास साथ an एथलेटिक टोली , और पोशाक लिये खेल  but he or she may not compete during the game .
Using this  यांत्रिकी , a छात्र खिलाड़ी रै up to पाँच अकादमिक सालो to उपयोग the चार सालो of पात्रता  , thus becoming a fifth-year senior .
The term is used  as a क्रिया , संज्ञा , और क्रियाशील  .
For example , a coach may choose to  redshirt a खिलाड़ी जो is तब referred to as a redshirt freshman or बस  a redshirt .
The  विपरीत of इस is a ``  true freshman . ''
World War I ( WWI ) was  a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted  until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the  संसार युद्ध or the ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939 , और the  First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great  शक्तियां , जिससे यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of  Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both  reorganised और विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य  joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more  than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों , सहित 60 लाख europeans , यहूद mobilised in एक of the largest  wars in history .
More than 9  लाख combatants यहूद मारे , largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल  increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world  इतिहास , subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन , ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र शामिल  .
One of the long-term causes of the war was  the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of यूरोपीय  .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of  ऑस्ट्रिया , the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक  crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several  alliances formed over the पिछला दशकों  were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers  यहूद at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड  around the world .
On  28 जुलाई , the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the  war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France ,  providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध जर्मनी  .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the  so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर  that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the  रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians , लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण  of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November  the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध , खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस  , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
इटली और बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध  in 1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March  1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर  brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918  जर्मनी अप्रिय साथ the पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी of कामयाब offensives  and American forces began entering the trenches .
जर्मनी , जिससे था इसके अपना ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत to an armistice  on 11 November 1918 .
The  युद्ध ended in विजय लिये  the Allies .
Events on the home  fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और  economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major  इम्पीरियल powers—the जर्मनी , रूसी , austro-hungarian  and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former  दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory , जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled entirely  .
the मैप of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक  smaller states .
The League  of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे  conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the  परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing  to World War II .
Map of countries that declared  themselves to be समाजवादी राज्य अंतर्गत the marxist–leninist or माओवादी परिभाषा - कि is to कह , ``  Communist states '' - between 1979 and 1983 .
This period marked  the महानतम territorial extent of कम्युनिस्ट  states .
A  कम्युनिस्ट राज्य is a राज्य जहाँ the  means of production are collectively owned by the society .
It has a form of government characterized by  single-party नियम or dominant-party नियम of a कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी ( referred as तानाशाही of the proletariat by इसके proponents ) और a professed निष्ठा  to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state .
Technically , `` communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as  a कम्युनिस्ट समाज as पारिभाषित by दोनो माक्र्सवादी और anarcho-communists is in principle  stateless .
From this  परिप्रेक्ष्य , the पद marxist-leninist  state is more appropriate .
Historically , a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of all or most means of production by the Communist party -run state is  deemed जरुरी to further the रूचि of the working क्लास ; आज , a कम्युनिस्ट राज्य can भी , लिये उदाहरण , refer to समकालीन चीन और वियतनाम , जहाँ a कम्युनिस्ट party-run राज्य exists alongside a मिश्रित  economy .
According to Marxist–Leninists , the state is a tool in the hands of the ruling  क्लास , जिससे in a समाजवादी समाज is the working क्लास , so a समाजवादी राज्य is , according to leninists , a राज्य  of the working class .
In  अभ्यास , कम्युनिस्ट राज्य do नहीं दरअसल refer to themselves  as such .
They do this not  to भेस the फैक्ट कि the सत्ताधारी पार्टी is कम्युनिस्ट , लकिन बल्कि क्युकी  they do not consider themselves to be a communist society at present .
Instead , they  constitutionally पहचानो themselves as समाजवादी राज्य or मजदूर ' राज्य  .
The primary  लक्ष्य of ये राज्य , जिससे भी explains उनके आधिकारिक नाम , is to मार्गदर्शिका  their respective countries in the process of building socialism , ultimately leading to communism .
Communist states may have  अनेक विधिक राजनैतिक पार्टियों , लकिन the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी is प्रायः granted a खास or प्रबल भूमिका in सरकारी , प्रायः by statute or अंतर्गत  the constitution .
Consequently , the institutions of  the राज्य और of the कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी become intimately entwined , ऐसे as in the विकास  of parallel institutions .
In the 20th century ,  सबसे कम्युनिस्ट राज्य अपनाया नियोजित economies  .
However , there were exceptions : The Soviet Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia after World War II allowed  सीमित बाज़ार और a उपाधि of कार्यकर्ता self-management , जबकि चीन , वियतनाम और लाओस introduced far-reaching मार्केट reforms  after the 1980s .
In  the 21st सदी , चीन और वियतनाम  have allowed a mixed economy to develop .
The fundamental  अवधारणाओं of कम्युनिस्ट राज्य प्रायः diverge इससे the असली socio-economic  ideologies from which they develop .
As a  परिणाम , अनेक adherents of ये विचारधाराओं प्रायः  oppose the political systems commonly associated with these states .
For example , dissenting communists such as Trotskyists were  प्रायः opposed to the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य of the 20th सदी , claiming either कि वे था nothing to do साथ `` रियल '' साम्यवादी or कि the विचारधारा  of such states had reached a point of irrevocable corruption .
Michael Fred Phelps II ( born June  30 , 1985 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी तैराक और the सबसे सजा ओलंपियन of सब समय , साथ a कुल of  22 medals .
Phelps also holds the all-time records for Olympic gold medals ( 18  , दोगुना the दूसरी उच्चतम रिकार्ड धारकों ) , ओलम्पिक सुनहरा medals in व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम ( 11 ) , और  Olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ) .
In winning eight gold  medals at the 2008 बीजिंग खेल , फेल्प्स took the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे first-place  finishes at any single Olympic Games .
Five of those  victories यहूद in व्यक्तिगत कार्यक्रम  , tying the single Games record .
In the 2012 Summer Olympics in London , Phelps won four golds and two silver medals  , बनाना उसे the सबसे कामयाब खिलाड़ी of the खेल लिये the तीसरा  Olympics in a row .
Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly , 200-meter  तितली और 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as खूब as the पूर्व long कोर्स संसार recordholder in the  200-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley .
he रै जीती a कुल of 71 medals in प्रमुख अंतरराष्ट्रीय long-course प्रतियोगिता , 57 सुनहरा , 11 चांदी , और तीन कांस्य spanning  the Olympics , the World , and the Pan Pacific Championships .
Phelps 's international titles and record-breaking performances have  अर्जित उसे the संसार तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार सात टाइम्स और अमरीकी तैराक of the साल पुरस्कार नौ टाइम्स as खूब as the फिना तैराक of  the Year Award in 2012 .
His unprecedented Olympic success in 2008  अर्जित फेल्प्स खेल illustrated पत्रिका 's sportsman of the साल पुरस्कार  .
After  the 2008 गर्मियाँ ओलंपिक , फेल्प्स प्रारंभ the माइकल फेल्प्स न्यास  , which focuses on growing the sport of swimming and promoting healthier lifestyles .
He expects to do  further कार्य साथ उसके न्यास बाद the 2012 ओलंपिक , जिससे he रै कहा  will be his last .
Lenovo Group Limited ( ) is a Chinese  बहुराष्ट्रीय कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर और इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स कम्पनी साथ इसके मुख्यालय in बीजिंग , चीन और  Morrisville , North Carolina and its registered office in Hong Kong , China .
Its products include personal computers , tablet  कंप्यूटर , मोबाईल फोन , workstations , सर्वर , इलेक्ट्रॉनिक भंडार डिवाइस , it प्रबन्धन तन्त्र  and smart televisions .
लेनोवो is the संसार 's second-largest pc विक्रेता  by 2012 unit sales .
It markets the ThinkPad line of  कोपी कंप्यूटर और the thinkcentre लकीर of desktops  .
लेनोवो रै परिचालन in अधिक than 60 देशों  and sells its products in around 160 countries .
Lenovo was founded in Beijing in 1984 and  incorporated in हांग काँग in 1988 अंतर्गत इसके पिछला नाम  , Legend .
Lenovo is listed  on the हांग काँग भण्डार एक्सचेंज और is a constituent of the हैंग सेंग  China-Affiliated Corporations Index .
Slug is  a आम नाम लिये an जाहिर shell-less स्थलीय  gastropod mollusk .
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of the common  नाम of कोई gastropod mollusc कि रै no शेल , रै a बहुत घटाया शेल , or रै तभी a छोटी आतंरिक शेल  .
( This is in contrast to the common name `` snail ``  , जिससे is लागू to gastropods कि have a नतीजे शेल कि is विशाल पर्याप्त कि the नरम भाग of the एनिमल  can retract fully into it . )
Slugs exist on land and  in the समुद्र , और वहीँ is भी एक genus of freshwater  slugs , Acochlidium .
The unadorned word `` slug '' is  however लागू primarily to जमीन slugs , whereas slugs इससे the समुद्र or इससे  freshwater are usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs '' .
Land gastropods with a shell that is not  काफी vestigial , लकिन is too छोटी to retract into ( जैसे अनेक in the परिवार  Urocyclidae ) , are known as semislugs .
The various taxonomic families of slugs form part of several quite  अलग विकासवादी lineages जिससे भी शामिल  snails .
Thus , for example , the various families of land slugs are  नहीं बहुत closely सम्बन्धित to एक another , despite a सतही समानता in the overall  body form .
The shell-less condition has  arisen अनेक टाइम्स independently दौरान the विकासवादी पास्ट , और यूँ the श्रेणी  `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one .
slugs , जैसे सब अन्य gastropods , undergo torsion ( a 180° टेढ़ी of the  internal organs ) during development .
Internally , slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of this  रोटेशन , लकिन externally the लाशें of जमीन slugs appear to be अधिक or कम सममित , मगर लिये the positioning of the pneumostome , जिससे is on एक पक्ष of the एनिमल , सामान्यतः the सही  hand side .
The soft , slimy bodies of slugs are prone to  desiccation , so land-living slugs हैं confined to नम environments और जरूर  retreat to damp hiding places when the weather is dry .
the subsequent सूचना in इस  article applies to land slugs .
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or ,  in लिखने , `` it थी यूँ in the सोर्स सामग्री ''  .
sic may भी  refer to:
sic , cluj ,  a commune in Romania
SIC , the regional  कोड लिये सिसिली
Sic ( noise  कलाकार ) , styled as [ sic ] , स्टेज नाम of जेनिफर  Morris , a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern  hardcore/thrash मेटल बैंड इससे torshavn , the पूंजी of  the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '' ,  a सोंग by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot on the एल्बम  Slipknot
SIC ,  the आरंभिक of मार्को  Simoncelli .
SIC  as an एक्रोनिम may  stand for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a  semiconducting सामग्री , भी प्रयुक्त to  make metalworking tools
sic ( cyclecar ) ( società इटालियाना  Cyclecars )
मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण , a 20th-century u.S. प्रणाली  for classifying industries
International  मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण a un  system for economic activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स  Council
the Swiss  interbank clearing  system
San  isidro क्लबों , an अर्जेंटाइन  rugby union club
Standing Interpretation Committee , a committee  समर्पित to the निर्वचन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय हिसाब मानकों ifrs
Schwarz information  मानदंड in the फ़ील्ड of आंकडे
second-in-command in the फ़ील्ड of  aviation
sistema interconectado सेंट्रल  power grid in Chile
Sociedade  independente de comunicação ( sic ) , a टेलीविज़न  channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City , New Jersey , a  तटीय कस्बा in the संयुक्त राज्य
Segmented  पूर्णांक काउंटर विधि , a विधि of  operation in cryptography
sepang अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट , a  high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International Circuit , a  मोटर रेसिंग स्थान in शंघाई ,  China
Simplified instructional  कंप्यूटर , a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त in प्रणालियों प्रोग्रामिंग
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an early  twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित by फ्रेंच लेखक पियरे albert-birot
southeastern इलिनोइस कॉलेज , a दो साल जूनियर कॉलेज in harrisburg  , Illinois , United States
Specific inductive capacity , abbreviated to SIC , which is more  commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the  dielectric constant
St Ignatius  ' कॉलेज , riverview , a जेसुइट स्कूल  in Sydney , Australia
इम्पीरियल मानक of  Napoleon I
नेपोलियन बोनापार्ट ( , ; 15 अगस्त 1769 – 5 may 1821 ) थी a फ्रेंच सैन्य और राजनैतिक नेता  who rose to prominence during the latter stages of the French Revolution and its associated wars in Europe .
As Napoleon I ,  he थी सम्राट of the फ्रेंच इससे  1804 to 1815 .
His  विधिक सुधार , the napoleonic कोड , रै महरूम a प्रमुख influence on अनेक सिविल विधि jurisdictions विश्वव्यापी  , but he is best remembered for his role in the wars led against France by a series of coalitions , the so-called Napoleonic Wars .
He established hegemony over most of continental Europe  और sought to स्प्रेड the आदर्शों of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति , जबकि consolidating an इम्पीरियल साम्राज्य जिससे लौटी पहलुओं of the अपदस्थ  Ancien Régime .
Due to his success in these wars , often against numerically superior enemies , he is generally regarded as  एक of the महानतम सैन्य कमांडरों of सब समय , और उसके अभियान हैं पढ़ाई at सैन्य अकादमियों विश्वव्यापी  .
Napoleon was born  at ajaccio in corsica in a परिवार of प्रतिष्ठित इतालवी ancestry जिससे  had settled Corsica in the 16th century .
He trained as an artillery  अधिकारी in मेनलैंड फ़्रांस  .
He rose to prominence under the French First Republic  और led कामयाब अभियान विरूद्ध the पहला और दूसरी coalitions arrayed  against France .
He led a successful  आक्रमण of the इतालवी प्रायद्वीप  .
In 1799 , he staged a coup d'état and installed himself as First  कौंसुल ; पाँच सालो बाद the फ्रेंच सीनेट proclaimed उसे सम्राट , following a plebiscite in उसके  favour .
In the first decade of the 19th  सदी , the फ्रेंच साम्राज्य अंतर्गत नेपोलियन सगाई in a श्रेणी of conflicts—the napoleonic  Wars —that involved every major European power .
After a streak of  victories , फ़्रांस secured a प्रबल स्थिति in महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय , और नेपोलियन कायम the फ्रेंच गोला of influence through the गठन of extensive  alliances and the appointment of friends and family members to rule other European countries as French client states .
The  प्रायद्वीपीय युद्ध और 1812 फ्रेंच आक्रमण of रूस चिह्नित  turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes .
His  ग्रांडे armée थी badly क्षतिग्रस्त  in the campaign and never fully recovered .
In  1813 , the छठे गठबन्धन पराजित उसके शक्तियां at लिपजिग ; the following साल the गठबन्धन invaded  France , forced Napoleon to abdicate and exiled him to the island of Elba .
Less than a year later  , he फरार एल्बा और लौटे to शक्ति , लकिन थी पराजित  at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815 .
Napoleon  खर्च the पिछला छह सालो of उसके जीवन in कारावास by the अंग्रेजों on the द्वीप  of Saint Helena .
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer , but there has been some debate about the  कारण of उसके मौत , as कुछ विद्वानों have speculated कि he थी a शिकार of आर्सेनिक विषाक्तता  .
This is  a कालानुक्रमिक लिस्टिंग of the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों इससे  Pennsylvania .
संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों हैं popularly निर्वाचित , लिये a six-year  term , beginning January 3 .
चुनावों हैं आयोजित the पहला मंगलवार  after November 1 .
Before 1914 , they  यहूद चुनी by the पेन्सिलवेनिया सामान्य सभा , और पहले 1935  , their terms began March 4 .
The South  अफ़्रीकी नेशनल रग्बी संघ टोली ( ज्ञात as the springboks )  represents South Africa in rugby union .
They compete in the annual  रग्बी चैंपियनशिप , साथ साथ southern-hemisphere counterparts अर्जेंटीना  , Australia and New Zealand .
They have won this  चैंपियनशिप on तीन अवसरों in सोलह सालो  .
They  हैं फिलहाल क्रमित दूसरी in the संसार by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय रग्बी फलक , और यहूद नामित 2008  World Team of the Year at the Laureus World Sports Awards .
हालांकि दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the सृष्टि of the रग्बी संसार कप प्रतियोगिता , the springboks किया नहीं compete in the पहला दो  World Cups in 1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa .
The team  बना इसके संसार कप डेब्यू in 1995 , जब the newly लोकतांत्रिक  South Africa hosted the tournament .
The Springboks then defeated the All Blacks 15–12 in the final , which is now  remembered as एक of the महानतम पल in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's sporting इतिहास  , and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process .
South Africa regained  उनके शीर्षक as champions 12 सालो बाद , जब वे पराजित इंग्लैण्ड 15–6 in the  2007 final .
as a परिणाम of the 2007 संसार कप टूर्नामेंट the springboks यहूद प्रचारित to पहला  place in the IRB World Rankings , a position they held until July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot .
The  springboks खेल in ग्रीन और सुनहरा jerseys , और उनके प्रतीक हैं the springbok  and the Protea .
The side has been playing international rugby since 1891 , when a  अंग्रेजों isles पक्ष toured the स्वदेश , playing दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी in  their first Test on 30 July .
South Africa was coached by Jake  श्वेत , जो led the boks to the 2007 संसार कप शीर्षक , announcing उसके इस्तीफा effectively  from the end of 2007 .
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011 ,  following a 11–9 शिकस्त to ऑस्ट्रेलिया in the रग्बी संसार कप quarter-final , जो तब stated he होता नहीं be हस्ताक्षर a नई  deal .
The previous captain was John Smit , who before he  रिटायर्ड in 2011 निभाई वेश्या लिये सबसे of उसके करियर , हालांकि he  has also been a prop , mainly in 2008 and 2009 .
Due to Smit being unavailable for  the नवम्बर 2010 परीक्षण बाद सर्जरी , ताला विक्टर matfield  took Smit 's place as captain for that tour .
The current captain is  जां de villiers  .
The Battle of Gettysburg ( ,  साथ an ध्वनि ) , थी लड़ा जुलाई 1–3 , 1863 , in और around the कस्बा of gettysburg , पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
It was the  बैटल साथ the largest क्रमांक of हताहत in the  American Civil War and is often described as the war 's turning point .
Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade 's Army of the Potomac  पराजित हमले by confederate gen. रॉबर्ट E. ली 's फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया , समाप्ति  Lee 's invasion of the North .
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863 ,  ली led उसके फौज through the shenandoah घाटी to शुरू उसके दूसरी आक्रमण of the north—the  Gettysburg Campaign .
With his army in high spirits  , ली intended to शिफ़्ट the फ़ोकस of the गर्मियाँ अभियान इससे war-ravaged उत्तरी वर्जिनिया और hoped to influence उत्तरी राजनेता to दे up उनके अभियोजन  of the war by penetrating as far as Harrisburg , Pennsylvania , or even Philadelphia .
Prodded by President Abraham  lincoln , maj. gen. जोसेफ वेश्या स्थानांतरित उसके फौज in pursuit , लकिन थी सुकून बस  three days before the battle and replaced by Meade .
Elements of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg  on जुलाई 1 , 1863 , as ली तत्काल concentrated उसके शक्तियां वहीँ , उसके उद्देश्य होने  to engage the Union army and destroy it .
Low ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a Union  प्यादे प्रभाग अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर . gen. जॉन buford , और जल्द reinforced साथ दो corps of संघ  infantry .
However , two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the northwest  और उत्तर , collapsing the hastily विकसित संघ लाइनों , sending the defenders retreating through the गलियों  of town to the hills just to the south .
On the  दूसरी दिन of बैटल , सबसे of दोनो सेना  had assembled .
the संघ लकीर थी रखी आउट in  a defensive formation resembling a fishhook .
In the late afternoon of July 2 , Lee launched a heavy assault on the Union  बाएँ पार्श्व , और fierce लड़ raged at छोटी गोलाकार शीर्ष , the wheatfield , शैतान 's डेन , और the आड़ू  Orchard .
On the  संघ सही , demonstrations escalated into full-scale  assaults on Culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill .
All across the battlefield , despite significant losses , the  संघ defenders आयोजित उनके लाइनों  .
On the third day of battle , July 3 , fighting resumed on Culp 's Hill , and cavalry  लड़ाइयों raged to the ईस्ट और दक्षिण , लकिन the प्रमुख इवेंट थी a नाटकीय infantry उत्पीड़न by 12,500 confederates विरूद्ध the बीच of the संघ लकीर on  Cemetery Ridge , known as Pickett 's Charge .
The  चार्ज थी repulsed by संघ राइफल और तोपखाने  fire , at great losses to the Confederate army .
Lee led his army on a  torturous रिट्रीट वापस to वर्जिनिया .
Between 46,000 and 51,000 soldiers from  दोनो सेना यहूद हताहत in the three-day बैटल  .
That November , President Lincoln used the dedication ceremony for the  gettysburg नेशनल कब्रिस्तान to सम्मान the गिरे संघ सैनिको और redefine the purpose of the युद्ध in उसके ऐतिहासिक  Gettysburg Address .
An academic discipline , or field of  पढ़ाई , is a शाखा of ज्ञान कि is सिखाया और शोधकार्य  at the college or university level .
Disciplines are defined ( in part ) , and recognized by the academic journals in which  शोध is प्रकाशित , और the सीखे समाजों और अकादमिक विभाग or faculties to जिससे उनके practitioners  belong .
However , there exists no formal criteria for when  शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम और scholarly जर्नल्स रूप an अकादमिक अनुशासन  .
A huge difference  exists between , on the एक हाथ , खूब स्थापित disciplines कि मौजूद in लगभग सब विश्वविद्यालयों सब over the संसार , have a long इतिहास , और have a खूब स्थापित नियत of जर्नल्स और सम्मेलनों , और , on the अन्य हाथ , सुझाव लिये नई फ़ील्ड समर्थित तभी by  few universities and publications .
Fields of study usually  have अनेक sub-disciplines or शाखाओं , और the distinguishing लाइनों between  these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous .
PHP  is a server-side एनक्रिप्शन भाषा designed लिये वेब विकास  but also used as a general-purpose programming language .
PHP is now installed on more  than 244 लाख वेबसाइटों और 2.1 लाख वेब सर्वर  .
originally निर्मित by rasmus lerdorf in 1995 , the सन्दर्भ  implementation of PHP is now produced by The PHP Group .
While PHP originally stood for  निजी घर पेज , it अभी स्टैंड लिये पीएचपी : हाइपरटेक्स्ट  Preprocessor , a recursive acronym .
PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a PHP processor  मोड्यूल जिससे generates the resulting वेब पेज : पीएचपी कमांड can be अंतःस्थापित सीधे into an एचटीएमएल सोर्स दस्तावेज़ बल्कि than कॉलिंग an  external file to process data .
It has also evolved to include  a command-line इंटरफ़ेस काबिलियत और can be  used in standalone graphical applications .
PHP is free software released under the PHP  अनुज्ञा , जिससे is असंगत साथ the ग्नू सामान्य पब्लिक अनुज्ञा ( जीपीएल )  due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP .
PHP can be deployed on most web servers and  भी as a स्टैंडअलोन शेल on लगभग प्रत्येक ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली और मंच  , free of charge .
John Fitzgerald  `` जोकर '' कैनेडी ( may 29 , 1917 – नवम्बर 22 , 1963 ) , प्रायः referred to by  his initials JFK , was the 35th President of the United States , serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II in the South  प्रशांत , कैनेडी represented मैसाचुसेट्स ' 11th congressional ज़िला in the u.S. हाउस of प्रतिनिधि इससे  1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
thereafter , he परोसा in the u.S. सीनेट इससे  1953 until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice  अध्यक्ष और रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड निक्सन in  the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43  सालो of आयु , he is the youngest to have महरूम निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर , the second-youngest  President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ) , and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy is  the तभी non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष , और is the तभी  president to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency  शामिल the खाड़ी of सूअर आक्रमण , the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट , the भवन of the बर्लिन वॉल , the स्पेस रेस , the african-american  Civil Rights Movement , and early stages of the Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy  increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers , खास आपरेशन शक्तियां , और helicopters in an प्रयत्न  to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia .
The Kennedy administration adopted the  नीति of the रणनीतिक हैमलेट कार्यक्रम जिससे थी implemented by  the South Vietnamese government .
It involved certain  मजबूर relocation , गाँव internment , और पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी  from the northern and southern communist insurgents .
Kennedy was  assassinated on नवम्बर 22 , 1963  in Dallas , Texas .
Lee Harvey  ओसवाल्ड थी चार्ज साथ the अपराधों , लकिन he थी शॉट  and killed by Jack Ruby two days later , before a trial could take place .
The FBI and the Warren Commission  officially concluded कि ओसवाल्ड थी the लोन हत्यारे  .
However ,  the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस चुनें कमेटी on assassinations ( hsca  ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
However  , एबीसी न्यूज in उनके छानबीन , the कैनेडी हत्या : परे षड्यंत्र , पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the  Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter  bomber कार्यक्रम led to a congressional छानबीन  that lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
Since  the 1960s सूचना concerning कैनेडी  's private life has come to light .
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he  struggled have become बेहतर ज्ञात  , especially since the 1990s .
Although initially  रखा रहस्य इससे the सामान्य पब्लिक , रिपोर्ट्स of कैनेडी 's philandering  have garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks highly in public  राय दरजा of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों .
`` Stand by Me ''  is a सोंग originally performed by बेन E. किंग और लिखा by किंग , जेरी leiber , और माइक stoller , प्रेरित  by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me , '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3 .
There  have महरूम over 400 अंकित संस्करण  of the song .
A political cartoon from an 1894  पक पत्रिका by इलस्ट्रेटर s.d . ehrhart , shows a फार्म स्त्री labeled `` लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी  '' sheltering from a tornado of political change .
A  रूपक is a फिगर of वाक कि describes a विषय by asserting कि it is  , on some point of comparison , the same as another otherwise unrelated object .
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely related  to अन्य rhetorical आंकड़े of वाक कि achieve उनके प्रभाव via संघ , तुलना or  resemblance including allegory , hyperbole , and simile .
In simpler terms , a  रूपक compares दो वस्तुएँ or बाते बगैर using the शब्द  `` like '' or `` as '' .
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor in  अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य is the सब the संसार 's a स्टेज monologue इससे as  You Like It :
सब the संसार  's a stage,
और सब the मेन और महिलाओं  merely players ;
They have their exits and their  entrances ; — विलियम शेक्सपियर , as तुम जैसे it ,  2/7
This quote is a metaphor  क्युकी the संसार is नहीं वस्तुतः a स्टेज  .
By  figuratively asserting कि the संसार is a स्टेज , शेक्सपियर उपयोग the अंक of तुलना between the संसार और a स्टेज to convey an समझना  about the mechanics of the world and the lives of the people within it .
माउंट फुजी , इससे the thirty-six दृश्य of माउंट फुजी , रंग  woodcut by Katsushika Hokusai
Rembrandt van  rijn , self-portrait , etching , c.1630
Francisco Goya  , वहीँ is no एक to सहायता उन्हें , आपदाओं of युद्ध श्रेणी  , aquatint c.1810
Felix  vallotton , la raison probante ( the cogent कारण  ) , woodcut from the series Intimités , 1898
Printmaking is the  प्रक्रम of बनाना artworks by मुद्रण , सामान्यतः  on paper .
Printmaking normally  कवर तभी the प्रक्रम of बनाना prints साथ an तत्व of मौलिकता , बल्कि  than just being a photographic reproduction of a painting .
Except in the case of  monotyping , the प्रक्रम is सक्षम of producing multiples of the वही  piece , which is called a print .
Each print produced is not considered a  `` नक़ल '' लकिन बल्कि is माना an `` असली  '' .
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process , and also because the imagery of a  छपाई is typically नहीं बस a जनन of another कार्य लकिन बल्कि is प्रायः a अद्वितीय चित्र designed इससे the प्रारंभ to be expressed in a particular printmaking तकनीक  .
A  छपाई may be ज्ञात  as an impression .
Printmaking ( other than monotyping  ) is नहीं चुनी तभी लिये इसके क्षमता to उपज अनेक impressions , लकिन  rather for the unique qualities that each of the printmaking processes lends itself to .
Prints are created  by transferring स्याही इससे a मेट्रिक्स or through a prepared स्क्रीन to a चादर  of paper or other material .
Common types of matrices include : metal plates , usually  तांबे or जस्ता , or पॉलिमर प्लेटों लिये नक्काशी or etching ; स्टोन , एल्यूमिनियम , or पॉलिमर लिये lithography ; ब्लॉक of लकडी लिये woodcuts  and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts .
Screens made of silk  or सिंथेटिक fabrics हैं प्रयुक्त  for the screenprinting process .
Other types of  मेट्रिक्स substrates और सम्बन्धित प्रक्रियाओं हैं  discussed below .
Multiple  impressions मुद्रित इससे the वही मेट्रिक्स रूप an  edition .
Since the late 19th century ,  कलाकारों have generally हस्ताक्षरित व्यक्तिगत impressions इससे an संस्करण और  often number the impressions to form a limited edition .
prints may भी be मुद्रित in किताब रूप , ऐसे as illustrated  books or artist 's books .
Il Divo is  an अंग्रेज़ी बहुराष्ट्रीय operatic पॉप गायन समूह निर्मित  by music manager , executive , and reality TV star Simon Cowell .
Formed  in the संयुक्त किंगडम , वे हैं भी हस्ताक्षरित  to Cowell 's record label , Syco Music .
Il Divo is a group of four male singers : French  पॉप सिंगर सेबेस्तियन izambard , स्पेनी baritone कार्लोस marín , अमरीकी टेनर दाउद  Miller , and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler .
To  तिथि , वे have बेची अधिक than 26 लाख  albums worldwide .
Su-15 , one of the  प्रिंसिपल सोवियत एयर रक्षा interceptors  in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or simply  interceptor ) is a प्रकार of सेनानी वायुयान designed specifically to prevent मिशन  of enemy aircraft , particularly bombers and reconnaissance aircraft , and destroy them , relying usually on great speed and powerful armament .
Being used since the  पहला संसार युद्ध , बाद the लेट 1960s , interceptors became कम महत्वपूर्ण due to shifting इससे बमवर्षक to इंटरकांटिनेंटल  ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) for nuclear warfare .
A  वियतनामी अमरीकी ( ) is an अमरीकी of वियतनामी  descent .
They make up  परिचय हाफ of सब विदेशी वियतनामी ( người việt hải ngoại ) और  are the fourth-largest Asian American group .
Mass Vietnamese immigration to the United  राज्य प्रारंभ बाद 1975 , बाद the समाप्त of the  Vietnam War .
Early immigrants were  शरणार्थी नाव लोगों fleeing persecution or गरीबी  .
Forced to flee from their homeland and often thrust into poor urban neighborhoods , these newcomers have  nevertheless प्रबंधित to स्थापित दमदार समुदायों in a छोटी राशि of समय .
More than sixty percent of Vietnamese  अमेरिकी reside in the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , टेक्सास , वॉशिंगटन , फ्लोरिडा , और वर्जिनिया  .
Front page of the U.S.  हथियारबंद शक्तियां समाचारपत्र , सितारों और धारियाँ  , 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler committed suicide  by gunshot on 30 अप्रैल 1945 in उसके führerbunker in बर्लिन  .
His  बीवी एवा ( née braun ) वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या साथ उसे by  ingesting cyanide .
That afternoon , in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions ,  उनके remains यहूद carried up the सीढ़ियाँ through the बंकर 's आपात निकास , doused in पेट्रोल और नियत alight in the reich chancellery गार्डन  outside the bunker .
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains  यहूद बरामद और interred in successive स्थितियाँ जबतक 1970 जब वे यहूद again exhumed  , cremated and the ashes scattered .
Accounts differ as to the  कारण of मौत ; एक कि he died by ज़हर तभी और another कि he died by a self-inflicted gunshot ,  while biting down on a cyanide capsule .
Contemporary  इतिहासकारों have अस्वीकृत ये खाते as होने either सोवियत प्रचार or an attempted सुलह in  order to reconcile the different conclusions .
One  eye-witness अंकित कि the देह दिखाया लक्षण of having महरूम  shot through the mouth , but this has been proven unlikely .
There is also  विवाद regarding the authenticity of कपाल  and jaw fragments which were recovered .
In 2009 , DNA  परीक्षण यहूद performed on a कपाल सोवियत officials था long believed  to be Hitler 's .
The  परीक्षण नाज़िल कि the कपाल थी दरअसल कि of a स्त्री कम  than 40 years old .
स्थान of मिसौरी
The alcohol laws of  मिसौरी हैं among the तनिक प्रतिबंधक और सबसे lax और permissive in the संयुक्त  States .
Missouri is known throughout the  मिडवेस्ट लिये इसके largely laissez-faire दृष्टिकोण to दारू विनियमन , in शार्प कंट्रास्ट to the बहुत सख्त दारू कानून  of some of its neighbors , like Kansas and Oklahoma .
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF , commonly known as  flesh-eating बीमारी or flesh-eating जीवाणु सिंड्रोम , is a विरल संक्रमण of the deeper परतों  of skin and subcutaneous tissues , easily spreading across the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue .
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly  progressing , having वृहद रिस्क of विकासशील in the immunocompromised due to शर्तें  like diabetes , cancer , etc .
It is a severe disease of sudden onset and  is प्रायः treated तत्काल साथ ऊँची doses of intravenous  antibiotics .
Type I describes a polymicrobial  संक्रमण , whereas प्रकार ii describes a monomicrobial  infection .
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g. , Group A  streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogenes ) , staphylococcus aureus , clostridium perfringens , bacteroides fragilis , aeromonas  hydrophila ) .
Such infections are more likely to  occur in लोगों साथ compromised  immune systems .
Historically , Group A  streptococcus बना up सबसे मामले of प्रकार ii infections  .
However , since as early as 2001 , another serious form of  monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis रै महरूम observed साथ increasing आवृत्ति , caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus  ( MRSA ) .
Some published  मामला रिपोर्ट्स have implied a संभावित कड़ी between उपयोग of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory दवाएँ और nf , हालांकि the प्रमाण of the कड़ी थी कहा to be कमजोर क्युकी  of a small number of case patients and it was unclear whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se .
World War II ( WWII or WW2  ) , भी ज्ञात as the दूसरी संसार युद्ध , थी a वैश्विक युद्ध कि lasted इससे  1939 to 1945 .
It involved the vast majority of the world 's  राष्ट्र —including सब of the ग्रेट शक्तियां —eventually forming दो opposing सैन्य alliances  : the Allies and the Axis .
It was the most widespread war in history , with more than  100 लाख लोगों सेवारत in सैन्य इकाई इससे over 30 अलग देशों  .
In a  राज्य of `` कुल युद्ध `` , the प्रमुख भागीदार लगाई उनके संपूर्ण आर्थिक , औद्योगिक , और वैज्ञानिक सामर्थ्य at  the service of the war effort , erasing the distinction between civilian and military resources .
Marked  by द्रव्यमान मौतों of नागरिकों , सहित the holocaust और the तभी उपयोग of नाभिकीय हथियार in warfare , it resulted in 50  million to over 75 million fatalities .
These deaths make World War  ii by दूर the deadliest विरोध in इंसान  history .
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with  the गणतंत्र of चीन in 1937 , लकिन the संसार युद्ध is generally कहा to have begun on 1 सितंबर 1939 साथ the आक्रमण of कैंडल by जर्मनी  and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain .
From late 1939 to early 1941 , in  a श्रेणी of अभियान और treaties , जर्मनी formed the अक्ष गठबंधन  with Italy , conquering or subduing much of continental Europe .
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact , Germany and  the सोवियत संघ partitioned और annexed territories between themselves of उनके यूरोपीय  neighbours , including Poland .
The United Kingdom and the other members of the British Commonwealth  यहूद the तभी प्रमुख अलाइड शक्तियां continuing the लड़ो विरूद्ध the अक्ष , साथ लड़ाइयों लेने प्लेस in उत्तर अफ़्रीकी  as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic .
In June 1941 , the European Axis  शुभारम्भ an आक्रमण of the सोवियत संघ , giving a प्रारंभ to the largest जमीन थिएटर of युद्ध in इतिहास , जिससे tied bas  the major part of the Axis ' military forces for the rest of the war .
In December 1941 , Japan joined the Axis ,  attacked the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय territories in the प्रशांत समंदर , और जल्दी conquered  much of the Western Pacific .
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942 ,  बाद जापानी खोया a श्रेणी of नवल लड़ाइयों और यूरोपीय अक्ष सैनिकों यहूद पराजित in  North Africa and , decisively , at Stalingrad .
In 1943 , with a series  of जर्मनी defeats in पूर्वी यूरोपीय , the अलाइड आक्रमण of इटली , और अमरीकी victories in the प्रशांत , the अक्ष खोया the पहल  and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts .
In  1944 , the पश्चिमी allies invaded फ़्रांस ,  while the Soviet Union regained all of its territorial losses and invaded Germany and its allies .
During 1944 and 1945 the United  राज्य पराजित the जापानी नेवी और captured कुंजी पश्चिमी  Pacific islands .
The war in  यूरोपीय ended साथ the कैप्चर of बर्लिन by सोवियत और पॉलिश सैनिकों और the subsequent जर्मनी  unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945 .
Following  the पॉट्सडैम घोषणा by the allies on 26 जुलाई 1945 , the संयुक्त राज्य dropped परमाणु बम  on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on 6 August , and Nagasaki on 9 August .
With an invasion of the Japanese  द्वीपसमूह निकट , और the सोवियत संघ having घोषित युद्ध on जापानी by आक्रमणकारी मंचूरिया ,  Japan surrendered on 15 August 1945 , ending the war in Asia and cementing the total victory of the Allies over the Axis .
World War II altered the  राजनैतिक संरेखण और सोशल ढांचा of the संसार .
The United  राष्ट्र ( un ) थी स्थापित to फोस्टर अंतरराष्ट्रीय  cooperation and prevent future conflicts .
The great powers that were the victors of the war—the United States , the Soviet Union , China , the  संयुक्त किंगडम , और france—became the स्थाई सदस्यों of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सुरक्षा  Council .
The Soviet Union and the United  राज्य उभरा as प्रतिद्वंद्वी superpowers , सेटिंग the स्टेज लिये the ठंडा युद्ध , जिससे lasted  for the next 46 years .
Meanwhile , the influence of European great powers  प्रारंभ to मनाही , जबकि the decolonisation of एशिया  and Africa began .
Most countries  जिनकी उद्योग था महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त स्थानांतरित towards  economic recovery .
Political integration ,  विशेषकर in यूरोपीय , उभरा as an प्रयत्न to stabilise postwar संबंध और लड़ो अधिक  effectively in the Cold War .
A limited liability  कम्पनी ( llc ) is a लचीली रूप of एंटरप्राइज़ कि मिश्रणों तत्व of साझेदारी  and corporate structures .
Note than an LLC is not a  निगम , और कॉलिंग an llc a निगम is technically  incorrect .
An LLC is a legal form of company that  provides सीमित देयता to इसके स्वामी in the विशाल बहुमत of संयुक्त राज्य  jurisdictions .
LLCs do  नहीं need to be व्यवस्थित लिये लाभ  .
पाँच  K-Cups
The inside of a used K-Cup ,  साथ the शीर्ष foil और the प्रयुक्त कॉफी grounds removed  .
इस shows the फिल्टर अंदर  the K-Cup .
K-Cup portion packs are used with  keurig or अन्य सिंगल कप brewing प्रणालियों to काढ़ा a कप of कॉफी  , tea , or hot chocolate .
Each K-Cup is a  प्लास्टिक संग्राहक साथ a कॉफी फिल्टर  inside .
मैदान कॉफी सेम हैं packed in the k-cup और sealed air-tight  with a combination plastic and foil lid .
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer , the brewer  punctures the foil ढक्कन और the नीचे of the k-cup और शक्तियां hot जल  under pressure through the K-Cup and into a mug .
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters and tea makers such as Green Mountain Coffee  roasters , diedrich/ ग्लोरिया जीन्स , टिमोथी 's संसार कॉफी , वैन houtte , हिरण कॉफी , celestial seasonings , bigelow चाय कम्पनी , twinings , टली 's , कॉफी  People and Newman 's Own .
keurig 's patents on the असली k-cup डिज़ाइन समाप्त  in September 2012 .
Keurig holds at least one additional , still-active  us पेटेंट और another पेटेंट अनुप्रयोग , detailing सुधार कि have  subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup design .
Electa  जेब chronograph ( ca . 1890s ) manufactured by the gallet देखें  Company in La Chaux-de-Fonds , Switzerland .
gallet multichron astronomic ( ca . 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph साथ 12  hour recoding capabilities , automatic day , date , month , and moon phase display
A modern Seiko  क्वार्ट्ज wristwatch using the chronograph फलन  ( movement 7T92 ) .
Citizen Atessa  eco-drive atv53-3023 analog-digital chronograph साथ 4 क्षेत्रफल रेडियो नियंत्रित रिसेप्शन ( उत्तर अमेरिका  , Europe , China , Japan ) .
A  chronograph is a विशिष्ट प्रकार of देखें कि  is used as a stopwatch combined with a display watch .
A basic chronograph has an independent sweep second hand  ; it can be प्रारंभ , रोका , और लौटे to शून्य by successive दबाव on the  stem .
Louis  moinet invented the chronograph  in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an  initialism formed इससे परिधीय घटक इंटरकनेक्ट , भाग of the पीसीआई लोकल बस मानक और प्रायः shortened  to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a  प्रोसेसर बस , लकिन in a मानकीकृत स्वरूप कि is स्वतंत्र of  any particular processor .
Devices  कनेक्ट to the बस appear to the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट सीधे to  the processor bus , and are assigned addresses in the processor 's address space .
Attached devices can take either the form of  an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself , पुकारा a planar यंत्र in the पीसीआई specification  , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI  लोकल बस थी पहला implemented in ibm pc compatibles , जहाँ it विस्थापित  the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration .
It has  subsequently महरूम अपनाया लिये अन्य कंप्यूटर  types .
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express , but , most  motherboards हैं स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट , जिससे हैं sufficient लिये अनेक  uses .
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus (  सहित the आकार और अंतरण of the सर्किट फलक किनारे विद्युत सम्पर्क ) , विद्युत विशेषताएँ , बस समय  , and protocols .
The specification can be purchased from  the पीसीआई खास ब्याज समूह ( pci-sig  ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network  ताश , ध्वनि ताश , modems , अतिरिक्त पोर्ट ऐसे as usb or सीरियल , tv ट्यूनर ताश और डिस्क  controllers .
PCI video cards  replaced isa और vesa ताश , जबतक growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the सामर्थ्य of पीसीआई ; the पसन्दीदा  interface for video cards became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI video  ताश remain उपलब्धियाँ लिये उपयोग साथ  old PCs without AGP or PCI Express slots .
अनेक डिवाइस previously provided on पीसीआई विस्तार ताश हैं अभी commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards  or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions .
माइकल whitaker स्मिथ ( born अक्तूबर 7 , 1957 ) is an अमरीकी समकालीन ईसाई संगीतकार  , who has charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts .
His biggest success in mainstream music was in 1991 when `` Place  in इस संसार '' hit no . 6 on the बिलबोर्ड  Hot 100 .
Smith is a three-time  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार विजेता , और रै  earned 40 Dove Awards .
Over the course of his career ,  he बेची अधिक than 13 लाख एल्बम और अंकित 29 no . 1 hit गीतों , चौदह सुनहरा  albums , and five platinum albums .
Smith is an American Music Award  प्राप्तकर्ता ; he थी भी नामित एक of लोगों पत्रिका 's `` सबसे खूबसूरत लोगों  '' .
an अमरीकी पोस्टर इससे the संसार युद्ध ii -era कि थी प्रयुक्त to inform लोगों  about what they should do if they suspect sabotage .
Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at  weakening another एंटिटी through subversion , रुकावट , disruption , or  destruction .
In a workplace  सेटिंग , तोड़फोड़ is the सचेत वापसी  of efficiency generally directed at causing some change in workplace conditions .
One who engages  in तोड़फोड़ is a saboteur  .
As a rule , saboteurs try to conceal  उनके पहचान क्युकी of the consequences of उनके क्रियाएँ  .
For example , whereas  an पर्यावरणीय दबाव समूह might be प्रसन्न to be पहचाना साथ an अधिनियम of तोड़फोड़  , it would not want the individual identities of the perpetrators known .
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a private , independent college with an Evangelical Christian basis  कि focuses on शिक्षण शास्त्रीय उदार कला और सरकारी , स्तिथ in purcellville , वर्जिनिया , संयुक्त  States .
Patrick Henry is known for  इसके रूढ़िवादी धर्मान्तरण  Christian focus .
As of April 17 , 2007 , the  कॉलेज थी accredited by the transnational संघ of ईसाई कॉलेजों और स्कूलों , a नेशनल faith-related accrediting  organization recognized by the Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation .
The school was  संस्थापित साथ the सहायता of the घर स्कूल विधिक रक्षा संघ , और अभी serves  as the headquarters for the organization , with which it is still closely connected .
The history of television comprises the  कार्य of numerous इंजीनियर्स और आविष्कारक in अनेक देशों over अनेक  decades .
The earliest proposal was in 1908 , in a paper by A . A.  campbell-swinton और postulated the उपयोग of कैथोड  rays .
The first practical demonstrations of television , however ,  यहूद विकसित using electromechanical विधि to स्कैन , संचारण , और reproduce  an image .
As electronic camera and display  tubes यहूद perfected , electromechanical टेलीविज़न दिया रास्ता to all-electronic प्रणालियों in nearly  all applications .
L'Idéal Cinéma - Jacques Tati at Aniche opened November 23rd  1905 ; the oldest still-active फिल्म थिएटर in the  world
A  सिनेमा in ऑस्ट्रेलिया
A  ठेठ मल्टीप्लेक्स ( एएमसी सैर 16  in Woodland Hills , Los Angeles , U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a  सिनेमा , फिल्म हाउस , फिल्मी हाउस , फिल्मी थिएटर or चित्र हाउस ) is a स्थान ,  usually a building , for viewing films .
Most but not all movie theaters are commercial  परिचालन केटरिंग to the सामान्य पब्लिक , जो attend by खरीदना a टिकट  .
The movie is projected with a movie  प्रोजेक्टर onto a विशाल प्रक्षेप स्क्रीन at the सामने of the ऑडिटोरियम  .
Most movie theaters are now equipped  लिये डिजिटल सिनेमा प्रक्षेप , निकालना the need to बनाएँ और हस्तांतरण a शारीरिक  film print .
Southern California Norton  मालिक 's क्लबों on कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य रूट 41 ,  near Creston .
A  मोटरसाइकिल क्लबों is a समूह of individuals जिनकी प्राथमिक ब्याज और क्रियाएँ  involve motorcycles .
lyme बीमारी , lyme borreliosis is an संक्रामक बीमारी caused by at तनिक  three species of bacteria belonging to the genus Borrelia .
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of Lyme disease in  उत्तर अमेरिका , whereas borrelia afzelii और borrelia garinii कारण सबसे यूरोपीय  cases .
The disease is named after  the कस्बों of lyme और बूढ़ा lyme , कनेक्टिकट , यूएसए , जहाँ a क्रमांक of मामले यहूद पहचाना  in 1975 .
हालांकि एलन steere एहसास कि lyme बीमारी थी a tick-borne बीमारी in 1978 ,  the cause of the disease remained a mystery until 1981 , when B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy Burgdorfer .
Lyme disease  is the सबसे आम tick-borne बीमारी in the उत्तरी  Hemisphere .
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the  काटना of संक्रमित ticks belonging to a few प्रजाति of the genus  Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ) .
Early  लक्षण may शामिल ज्वर , सिरदर्द , थकान , अवसाद , और a characteristic  circular skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ) .
Left untreated , later symptoms may  involve the joints , दिल , और सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली  .
In most cases , the  संक्रमण और इसके लक्षण हैं eliminated by एंटीबायोटिक , विशेषकर if the बीमारी  is treated early .
Delayed or inadequate treatment can  सीसे to अधिक गंभीर लक्षण , जिससे can be disabling और  difficult to treat .
Penises of minke  whales on प्रदर्शक at the आइसलैंडिक  Phallological Museum
Penis ( plural penises  or penes ) is a सामान्य पद लिये the अंगों साथ जिससे पुरूष और उभयलिंगी पशु introduce  sperm into receptive females during copulation .
Such organs occur in many animals , both vertebrate and invertebrate , but males  do नहीं भालू a शिश्न in प्रत्येक एनिमल प्रजाति , और in those प्रजाति in जिससे the पुरूष करता भालू a so-called शिश्न  , the penes in the various species are not necessarily homologous .
For example , the penis of a mammal is  at सबसे analogous to the शिश्न of a पुरूष कीट  or barnacle .
The term penis applies to many  reproductive intromittent अंगों , लकिन नहीं to सब ; लिये उदाहरण the intromittent अंग of सबसे cephalopoda  is the hectocotylus , a specialised arm , and male spiders use their pedipalps .
In most species of animals in which there is an organ that might reasonably be described as a penis , it has no major function other than intromission , or  at तनिक conveying the शुक्राणु to the मादा , लकिन in the placental स्तनधारियों the शिश्न bears the distal भाग of the urethra , जिससे discharges दोनो मूत्र दौरान urination और वीर्य दौरान  copulation as the occasion requires .
Artists and repertoire ( A & R ) is the division of a record label or music publishing  कम्पनी कि is जिम्मेदार लिये हुनर बालचर और overseeing the कलाकारी विकास of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों  and/or songwriters .
It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record label or publishing  कम्पनी ; प्रत्येक कार्यकलाप involving कलाकारों to the पाइंट of एल्बम रिलीज is generally माना अंतर्गत the purview of , और जिम्मेदारी of ,  A & R .
A furlong is a measure of distance  in इम्पीरियल इकाई और u.S. प्रथागत इकाई बराबर to one-eighth of a मील , समतुल्य  to 220 yards , 660 feet , 40 rods , or 10 chains .
The exact value of the  furlong varies थोड़ा among english-speaking  countries .
Five furlongs are approximately 1  किलोमीटर ( 1.0058 km is a करीब सन्निकटन  ) .
Since the original definition of the  मीटर थी one-quarter of एक ten-millionth of the परिधि of the धरती ( साथ the ग्रेट वृत्त coincident साथ the मध्याह्न of देशांतर गुजर through पेरिस ) , the परिधि of the धरती is परिचय 40,000 km or परिचय  200,000 furlongs .
cr2032 लिथियम बटन कोशिका  battery
लिथियम 9 वोल्ट , aa , & aaa आकार
Lithium  बैटरी हैं डिस्पोजेबल ( प्राथमिक ) बैटरी कि have लिथियम  metal or lithium compounds as an anode .
They stand apart from other batteries in their high  चार्ज घनत्व ( long जीवन ) और ऊँची लागत प्रति ईकाई  .
Depending on the design and chemical compounds used , lithium cells can produce voltages from 1.5 V ( comparable to a  zinc–carbon or क्षारीय बैटरी ) to परिचय 3.7 V. लिथियम बैटरी हैं widely प्रयुक्त in उत्पाद ऐसे  as portable consumer electronic devices .
Raymond `` Ray '' Charles Jack LaMontagne  ( ; born जून 18 , 1973 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter .
LaMontagne has released four  स्टुडियो एल्बम , ट्रबल , तक the सूर्य turns ब्लैक , गपशप in the अनाज  and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise .
He was born in New  हैम्पशायर और थी प्रेरित to बनाएँ म्यूज़िक बाद सुनना an एल्बम  by Stephen Stills .
Critics have compared  lamontagne 's म्यूज़िक to कि of the बैंड , वैन  Morrison , Nick Drake , and Tim Buckley .
He lives  in मैसाचुसेट्स साथ उसके बीवी और दो  children .
When the Wind Blows is  a अनोखा by जेम्स पैटरसन  .
It is the  precursor to the झील हाउस और प्रेरित the अधिकतम सवारी श्रेणी  .
The novel is  फिलहाल नियत to be adapted  into a movie .
The  पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स यहूद संस्थापित  in 1933 .
Over the course of the team 's history , the team has had several logos while  wearing वस्तुतः the वही वर्दी over the सालो , साथ हल्का परिवर्तन बना to दे the वर्दी an अद्यतनीकृत dekh  .
The team colors ,  वर्दी , और लोगो हैं प्रायः  ranked as being among the best in the NFL .
फेसबुक on  the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online  सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा , जिनकी नाम तना इससे the colloquial नाम लिये the किताब दिए to विद्यार्थी at the प्रारंभ of the अकादमिक  year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other .
It was founded in February 2004 by  चिह्नित zuckerberg साथ उसके कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin , एंड्रयू mccollum , डस्टिन  Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to Harvard students , but was  विस्तारित to अन्य कॉलेजों in the बोस्टन क्षेत्रफल , the आइवी लीग , और स्टैनफोर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों  .
It gradually added  support लिये विद्यार्थी at विभिन्न अन्य विश्वविद्यालयों पहले खोलने to ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी ,  and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any users who declare  themselves to be at तनिक 13 सालो बूढ़ा to become पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता of the साईट  .
Users must register before using the site , after which they may  बनाएँ a निजी प्रोफ़ाइल , add अन्य उपयोक्ता as मित्रों , और एक्सचेंज  messages , including automatic notifications when they update their profile .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups , organized by workplace , school  or कॉलेज , or अन्य विशेषताएँ , और categorize उनके मित्रों into सूचियाँ ऐसे as `` लोगों इससे कार्य '' or `` बंद  Friends '' .
As of  सितंबर 2012 , फेसबुक रै over  one billion active users .
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are 7.5  लाख children अंतर्गत 13 साथ खाते और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10 , violating  the site 's terms of service .
In May  2005 , accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख in फेसबुक , और जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख  of his own money to the pot .
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked  फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त सोशल नेटवर्किंग सेवा by विश्वव्यापी  monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list , saying , `` How on earth did we  stalk हमारी exes , याद हमारी co-workers ' जन्मदिन , कीड़ा हमारी मित्रों , और खेल a rousing  game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics , such as Facebook Detox , state that Facebook has turned  into a नेशनल obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य , resulting in विशाल amounts of समय खोया और प्रोत्साहित आत्ममोह  .
Quantcast  estimates फेसबुक रै 138.9 लाख मासिक अद्वितीय  U.S. visitors in May 2011 .
According to Social Media Today , in April 2010 an estimated  41.6 % ( 129.5 लाख ) of the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी था a फेसबुक  account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some  regions , साथ the साईट खोने 7 लाख क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा  in May 2011 .
Facebook  आखिरकार दायर लिये an आरंभिक पब्लिक offering on फ़रवरी  1 , 2012 , and was headquartered in Menlo Park , California .
Facebook Inc.  began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक और व्यापार  on the NASDAQ on May 18 , 2012 .
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel (  15 नवम्बर 1891 – 14 अक्तूबर 1944 ) , popularly ज्ञात as the मरुस्थल फॉक्स ( wüstenfuchs  , ) , was a German Field Marshal of World War II .
He earned the respect of  दोनो उसके अपना सैनिकों और the दुश्मनों  he fought .
Rommel was a highly decorated officer in World War  i और थी awarded the डालना le mérite लिये उसके कारनामे on the  Italian front .
In World War II , he  further विशिष्ट खुद as the कमांडर of the 7th panzer प्रभाग दौरान  the 1940 invasion of France .
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the North  अफ़्रीकी अभियान स्थापित उसे as एक of the सबसे समर्थ कमांडरों of the युद्ध , और अर्जित उसे the appellation of the मरुस्थल फॉक्स .
He is  regarded as एक of the सबसे skilled कमांडरों  of desert warfare in the conflict .
He  बाद commanded the जर्मनी शक्तियां opposing  the Allied cross-channel invasion in Normandy .
His  कार्यभार never took उसे to the  Eastern Front .
Rommel is  regarded as having महरूम a दयालु और पेशेवर  officer .
His Afrika  कोर्प्स थी never अभियुक्त of युद्ध अपराधों , और सैनिको captured दौरान उसके  Africa campaign were reported to have been treated humanely .
Orders to  मार यहूदी सैनिको , नागरिकों और captured  commandos were ignored .
Late in the war ,  ख़बरों थी linked to the षड्यंत्र to  assassinate Adolf Hitler .
Since  ख़बरों थी a नेशनल नायिका , हिटलर  desired to eliminate him quietly .
he मजबूर ख़बरों to कमिट आत्महत्या साथ a साइनाइड गोली , in वापसी लिये आश्वासनों कि  Rommel 's family would not be persecuted following his death .
Stained glass  प्रतिनिधित्व of the पावन स्पिरिट  as a dove , c. 1660 .
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit  is an enumeration of सात आध्यात्मिक उपहार originating साथ patristic लेखक , बाद elaborated by पाँच  intellectual virtues and four other groups of ethical characteristics .
They are  : अक्ल , समझना , अचरज और डरते ( भय of the रब ) , counsel  , knowledge , fortitude , and piety ( reverence ) .
The Earth Day Flag , the  नवीनतम प्रस्ताव of जॉन mcconnell लिये a  flag of Earth Day
Earth Day is an annual event , celebrated on April 22 , on which  कार्यक्रम हैं आयोजित विश्वव्यापी to demonstrate support लिये पर्यावरणीय  protection .
It was first celebrated  in 1970 , और is अभी समन्वित globally by the धरती दिन संजाल  , and celebrated in more than 192 countries each year .
In 1969 at a UNESCO Conference in San Francisco , the  तिथि प्रस्तावित थी कूच 21 , 1970 , the पहला दिन  of spring in the northern hemisphere .
This day of nature 's  equipoise थी बाद मंजूर in a उदघोषणा हस्ताक्षरित by सचिव  General U Thant at the United Nations .
A month later a separate Earth Day  थी संस्थापित by संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर gaylord नेल्सन  as an environmental teach-in first held on April 22 , 1970 .
नेल्सन थी बाद awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता पुरस्कार in मान्यता  of his work .
While this April 22 Earth Day was focused on the United States , an  संगठन शुभारम्भ by डेनिस हेज़ , जो थी the असली नेशनल समन्वयक in 1970 , took it  international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations .
Numerous communities  celebrate धरती सप्ताह , an संपूर्ण सप्ताह of क्रियाएँ केन्द्रित on पर्यावरणीय  issues .
Iodine is a  रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक i और परमाणु क्रमांक  53 .
The name is  इससे यूनानी ioeidēs , अर्थ बैंगनी or जामुनी , due to the  color of elemental iodine vapor .
Iodine and its compounds are primarily  प्रयुक्त in पोषण , और industrially in the उत्पादन of एसिटिक  acid and certain polymers .
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number , low  toxicity , और आसानी of अनुलग्नक to सशुल्क यौगिकों have बना it a भाग of अनेक x-ray कंट्रास्ट सामग्री in आधुनिक  medicine .
आयोडीन रै तभी एक  stable isotope .
A number of iodine  radioisotopes हैं भी प्रयुक्त in चिकित्सा  applications .
Iodine is found on Earth mainly as the highly  water-soluble आयोडाइड आयन , i− , जिससे concentrates it in महासागर और brine  pools .
Like the other  हैलोजन्स , फ़्री आयोडीन occurs मुख्यतः as a diatomic अणु i2 , और तब तभी momentarily बाद होने  oxidized from iodide by an oxidant like free oxygen .
In the universe and on Earth , iodine 's high  परमाणु क्रमांक makes it a अपेक्षाकृत विरल तत्व  .
however , इसके उपस्थिति in समंदर जल रै दिए  it a role in biology .
It is the heaviest essential element utilized widely by life in biological functions (  तभी टंगस्टन , employed in एंजाइमों by a few प्रजाति of जीवाणु , is अत्यधिक  ) .
आयोडीन 's rarity in अनेक soils , due to आरंभिक कम प्रचुरता as a crust-element , और भी leaching  of soluble iodide by rainwater , has led to many deficiency problems in land animals and inland human populations .
आयोडीन कमियां affects परिचय दो अरब लोगों और is the अग्रणी  preventable cause of intellectual disabilities .
Iodine is required by higher  पशु , जिससे उपयोग it to synthesize  thyroid hormones , which contain the element .
Because of this function ,  radioisotopes of आयोडीन हैं concentrated in the थायराइड  gland along with nonradioactive iodine .
If inhaled , the radioisotope iodine-131 , which has a high fission product  उपज , concentrates in the थायराइड , लकिन is easily remedied साथ पोटैशियम आयोडाइड उपचार  .
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is  the अधिनियम of attempting to influence निर्णय बना by officials in the  government , most often legislators or members of regulatory agencies .
Lobbying is done by many different types of  लोगों और व्यवस्थित समूह , सहित individuals in the निजी सेक्टर , corporations  , fellow legislators or government officials , or advocacy groups ( interest groups ) .
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies ,  अर्थ a वोटर or bloc of मतदाता  within his or her electoral district , or not ; they may engage in lobbying as a business , or not .
Professional lobbyists are people whose business is trying to influence legislation on behalf of a  समूह or व्यक्तिगत जो  hires them .
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an act of  स्वयंसेवा or as a छोटी भाग of उनके सामान्य जॉब ( लिये उदाहरण , a सीईओ बैठक साथ a प्रतिनिधि परिचय a प्रोजेक्ट महत्वपूर्ण to his/her कम्पनी , or an activist बैठक साथ his/her विधायक in  an unpaid capacity ) .
Governments often define and regulate  व्यवस्थित समूह lobbying कि रै become influential  .
The  आचार और नैतिकता of lobbying  are .
Lobbying is often spoken of with  अवमानना , जब the implication is कि लोगों साथ अत्यधिक socioeconomic शक्ति हैं corrupting the विधि ( टेढ़ी it दूर इससे निष्पक्षता ) in अनुक्रम  to serve their own conflict of interest .
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' interests are duly defended against others ' corruption , or even simply  बनाना यकीनन कि अल्पसंख्यक रूचि हैं fairly defended विरूद्ध mere जुल्म of the बहुमत  .
For example , a  चिकित्सा संघ , or a व्यापार संघ of स्वास्थ्य बीमे कंपनियाँ , may लॉबी a विधानमंडल in अनुक्रम to counteract the influence of तम्बाकू कंपनियाँ , in जिससे मामला the lobbying होता  be viewed by most people as justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ) .
The difficulty in drawing objective lines between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists  '' और जिससे ones हैं `` ख़राब ones '' is compounded by the cleverness साथ जिससे lobbyists or उनके क्लाइंट can argue कि  their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind .
At heart  , the प्रयत्न to influence विधान is a शक्ति संघर्ष  .
As in other forms of power struggle , such as war or law enforcement , motives range  इससे to self-defense to लड़ लिये इंसाफ , और the dividing लकीर between predation और इंसाफ is  subject to rationalization .
Sunshine  of अपना प्रेम गिटार रिफ
Cream were a 1960s British rock supergroup consisting of  bassist/vocalist जोकर ब्रूस , guitarist/vocalist eric क्लैप्टन , और वादक  Ginger Baker .
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues rock , hard rock and  साइकेडेलिक चट्टान , combining the psychedelia-themed गीत , eric क्लैप्टन 's ब्लूज़ गिटार playing और vocals , जोकर ब्रूस 's आवाज़ और  prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming .
The group 's  तीसरा एल्बम , पहियों of आग , थी the संसार 's पहला  platinum-selling double album .
Cream are widely  regarded as होने the संसार 's पहला कामयाब  supergroup .
In their career  , वे बेची over 15 लाख  albums worldwide .
मलाई 's म्यूज़िक शामिल गीतों आधारित on परंपरागत ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` क्रॉसरोड्स `` और `` spoonful `` , और आधुनिक ब्लूज़ ऐसे as  `` Born Under a Bad Sign `` , as well as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew `` , `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad `` .
Cream 's biggest  हिट्स यहूद `` i महसूस फ़्री `` ( uk , क्रमांक 11 ) , `` सनशाइन of अपना प्रेम `` ( us , क्रमांक 5 ) , `` श्वेत रूम `` ( us ,  number 6 ) , `` Crossroads '' ( US , number 28 ) , and `` Badge `` ( UK , number 18 ) .
Cream made a significant impact on the popular music of  the समय , और , साथ साथ जिमि हेंड्रिक्स , और टेरी कठ of शिकागो , popularised the उपयोग of the wah-wah  pedal .
वे provided a भारी yet technically निपुण musical थीम कि foreshadowed और बहकावे  the emergence of British bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s .
The  बैंड 's सजीव प्रदर्शन बहकावे प्रगतिशील चट्टान अधिनियमों  such as Rush .
Cream  यहूद inducted into the चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति in  1993 .
They were included in both Rolling Stone and VH1  's सूचियाँ of the `` 100 महानतम कलाकारों of सब समय  '' .
They were  भी क्रमित क्रमांक 16 on vh1 's `` 100  Greatest Artists of Hard Rock '' .
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters , and starring Ricki Lake , Sonny Bono , Debbie Harry ,  माइकल st. जेरार्ड , shawn थॉम्पसन , colleen fitzpatrick , जेरी stiller , और in उसके पिछला फिल्मी भूमिका ,  Divine .
Hairspray  थी a नाटकीय प्रस्थान इससे waters ' पहले  works , with a much broader intended audience .
In fact , Hairsprays PG is the mildest rating a Waters  फिल्मी रै प्राप्त ; सबसे of उसके पिछला films यहूद रेटेड x  by the MPAA .
Set in 1962  बाल्टीमोर , मेरीलैंड , the फिल्मी घूमती around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था ट्रेसी turnblad as वो pursues स्टारडम  as a dancer on a local TV show and rallies against racial segregation .
Hairspray was only a  मॉडरेट कामयाबी upon इसके आरंभिक नाट्य रिलीज , कमाई a modest  gross of $ 8 million .
however , it प्रबंधित to आकर्षित a larger दर्शक on घर  video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic .
Most critics  praised the फिल्मी , हालांकि कुछ यहूद displeased साथ  the overall campiness .
In 2002 ,  the फिल्मी थी adapted into a ब्रॉडवे musical of the  same name , which won eight Tony Awards , including Best Musical in 2003 .
A second film version of Hairspray , an adaptation of the stage musical , was also released by New  लकीर सिनेमा in 2007 , जिससे शामिल अनेक परिवर्तन of scripted वस्तुएं इससे the असली .
The  फिल्मी भी बाँधने # 444 on साम्राज्य पत्रिका 's 2008 सूची of  the 500 greatest movies of all time .
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a  आम नाम , ढांचा , और doctrine भीतर christianity  .
Some groups included do not  consider themselves a denomination ( e.g. , the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर considers itself  the one true church and the Apostolic See , and as pre-denominational ) .
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called a denomination and do not have any formal  denominational ढांचा , प्राधिकार , or record-keeping परे the लोकल सभा ; अनेक समूह भीतर बहाली गति पतन into इस  category .
Some groups are large ( e.g . Catholics ,  lutherans , anglicans or baptists ) , जबकि अन्य हैं बस a few छोटी  churches , and in most cases the relative size is not evident in this list .
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist Christianity , Pietism , Evangelicalism , Pentecostalism  और the पवित्रता गति sometimes क्रॉस denominational लाइनों , or in कुछ मामले बनाएँ नई denominations आउट of दो or अधिक  continuing groups , ( as is the case for many United and uniting churches , for example ) .
Such subtleties and  complexities हैं नहीं clearly चित्रित यहाँ  .
प्रमुख विभाजन भीतर  Christianity .
Note : This is not a  पूरा सूची , लकिन aims to provide a comprehensible अवलोकन of the  diversity among denominations of Christianity .
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations , many of which  can नहीं be सत्यापित to be significant , तभी those denominations साथ विकिपीडिया आलेख होगा be सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम to ensure कि सब प्रविष्टियां on इस सूची हैं notable  and verifiable .
Between denominations , theologians , and comparative  religionists वहीँ हैं considerable मतभिन्नता परिचय जिससे समूह can be properly पुकारा ईसाई , मतभिन्नता arising primarily  from doctrinal differences between groups .
For the purpose of simplicity ,  इस सूची is intended to प्रतिबिंबित the self-understanding of प्रत्येक denomination  .
Explanations of different opinions  concerning उनके औकात as ईसाई denominations can be मिला at उनके  respective articles .
There is no official recognition in most parts of the world for religious  लाशें , और वहीँ is no आधिकारिक clearinghouse जिससे could determine the औकात or respectability of धार्मिक  bodies .
Often there is  considerable असहमति between विभिन्न चर्च परिचय whether अन्य चर्च चाहिए be labeled  with pejorative terms such as `` cult '' , or about whether this or that group enjoys some measure of respectability .
Such considerations often vary from place to place , where  एक धार्मिक समूह may आनंद बहुमत औकात in एक प्रदेश , लकिन  be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the world .
Inclusion on this list does not indicate any judgment about  the आकार , महत्व , or अक्षर of a समूह or इसके सदस्यों .
1804 map of  `` louisiana `` , edged on the वेस्ट by the रॉकी kyu  .
The  louisiana खरीदें ( `` बिक्री of louisiana '' ) थी the अधिग्रहण  by the United States of America in 1803 of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana .
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11 ,250,000 ) plus cancellation of debts worth 18 million francs (  $ 3,750,000 ) , लिये a कुल योग of 15 लाख डॉलर ( कम than 3 सेंट प्रति एकड़ ) लिये the louisiana territory ( $ लाख in डॉलर , कम than  42 cents per acre ) .
The  louisiana territory encompassed सब or भाग of 15  present U.S. states and two Canadian provinces .
The land purchased contained all of  present-day अरकंसास , मिसौरी , आयोवा , ओक्लाहोमा , कान्सास , और नेब्रास्का ; भाग of मिनेसोटा कि यहूद वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी ; सबसे of उत्तर डकोटा ; सबसे of दक्षिण डकोटा ; northeastern नई मैक्सिको ; उत्तरी टेक्सास ; the portions of मोंटाना , व्योमिंग , और कोलोराडो ईस्ट of the महाद्वीपीय divide ; louisiana वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी , सहित the  city of New Orleans ; and small portions of land that would eventually become part of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan .
France controlled this vast area  इससे 1699 जबतक 1762 , the साल it दिया the territory  to its ally Spain .
Under Napoleon Bonaparte ,  फ़्रांस took वापस the territory in 1800 in the आशा of भवन an साम्राज्य  in North America .
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending war with Britain , however , led France to abandon these plans  और बेचें the संपूर्ण territory to the संयुक्त राज्य , जो था originally intended तभी to तलाश the खरीदें of नई ऑरलियन्स और इसके सटा lands  .
The purchase of the territory of  louisiana took प्लेस दौरान the प्रेसिडेंसी of थामस  Jefferson .
At the time , the purchase faced  घरेलू विपक्ष क्युकी it थी विचार to be असंवैधानिक  .
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory , Jefferson decided to go ahead with the  खरीदें वैसे in अनुक्रम to हटाएँ फ़्रांस 's उपस्थिति in the प्रदेश और to protect दोनो u.S. व्यापार अभिगम to the बंदरगाहों of नई ऑरलियन्स और फ़्री ड्योढ़ी on the मिसिसिपी नदी  .
Ceremony at Place d'Armes , New  ऑरलियन्स अंकन ट्रांसफ़र of louisiana to the संयुक्त राज्य , 10 कूच 1804  , as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup .
`` Cool Jerk '' is a  लोकप्रिय सोंग लिखा by डोनाल्ड storball और originally performed  by The Capitols .
Released in 1966 , it reached  no . 2 on the अमरीकी r & b चार्ट और no . 7 on the पॉप चार्ट  .
the बैकिंग track लिये इस सोंग थी दरअसल  recorded ( secretly ) by the Motown house band The Funk Brothers .
Per one of the Funk  भाइयो , the सोंग थी originally to be  called `` Pimp Jerk . ''
This was taken from watching neighborhood pimps , who would  नृत्य in the क्लब , लकिन यहूद too `` कूल '' to do the झटका जैसे नियमित  folks .
उनके संस्करण थी subsequently  named `` the Pimp Jerk . ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the word pimp in the title would be  बैन or नहीं प्राप्त much धनात्मक ध्यान , और था the शीर्षक बदला to इसके वर्तमान  form .
The Go-Go 's , Todd Rundgren , Big Trouble , Human Sexual  जवाब , the la de da 's , the सृष्टि , और the coasters have covered  the song .
Todd Rundgren did his version in  an विषम समय हस्ताक्षर ( 7/4 ) , giving an obviously jerky महसूस to the सोंग  .
The Go-Go 's covered  the सोंग लिये उनके 1982 एल्बम अवकाश और बाद re-recorded  it for their 1990 album Greatest .
In the feature film  घर अलोन 2 : खोया in नई यॉर्क , ताऊ फ़्रैंक ( gerry bamman ) गाती  `` Cool Jerk '' in the shower .
A version of the song with different lyrics  ( `` do the कूल चाबुक '' ) is प्रयुक्त in कूल चाबुक commercials .
A recording of `` Cool Jerk '' by Ricardo Ray is  प्रदर्शित in the विशेषता फिल्मी donnie brasco  ( 1997 ) .
The song features in the  फिल्मी खड़ा in the साए of motown , performed by the दुर्गंध भाइयो  with lead vocals by Bootsy Collins .
The song is  सुना briefly in the एनिमेटेड विशेषता , मेडागास्कर  3 : Europe 's Most Wanted .
despite इस कारण , it is सूचीबद्ध in  some variations of the film 's soundtrack .
A  लीग is a ईकाई of लंबाई ( or , rarely  , area ) .
It was long common in  यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका , लकिन it is no longer an आधिकारिक ईकाई in कोई  nation .
The  लीग originally referred to the अलहदा a व्यक्ति could  walk in an hour .
Since  the मध्य आयु , अनेक मान  have been specified in several countries .
In the context of nautical distances , the 3 mile ( 4.8  km ) अलहदा corresponds to कैसा दूर an निरीक्षक of औसत ऊँचाई ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can देखिए जब खड़ा at  sea level .
Thus , a ship traveling one `` league '' has  पहुँचे कया थी previously the farthest दृश्य  distance on the horizon .
The lack of a historical and global  मानक लिये the सटीक माप of a `` लीग '' can be accounted लिये by the परिवर्तनीय उन्नयन of the निरीक्षक ( i.e.  , sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ) .
The Irish state came into  होने in 1922 as the आयरिश फ़्री राज्य , a डोमिनियन of the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल , having seceded इससे the संयुक्त  Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Treaty .
It comprises 26 of  आयरलैंड 's 32 काउंटी  .
Since 1949 it  रै existed as the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड  .
From its foundation , the Irish Free State was  embroiled in a सिविल युद्ध between राष्ट्रवादियों supporting the सन्धि  and opponents who supported a republic .
The pro-Treaty side , organised as Cumann na  ngaedheal उभरा विजयी इससे the विरोध और जीती subsequent  elections .
They formed the government of the  राज्य जबतक 1932 , जब वे शांतिपूर्वक हात over शक्ति to the anti-treaty गुट in fianna fáil , जो पराजित उन्हें in  an election .
the आयरिश राज्य , despite इसके हिंसक beginnings , रै remained a उदार  democracy throughout its existence .
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the  कड़ी साथ ब्रिटेन स्थापित अंतर्गत the सन्धि और आयरलैंड 's neutrality in  the Second World War demonstrated its independence in foreign policy matters from Britain .
In 1948  आयरलैंड formally बाएँ the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल  and adopted the title of `` Republic '' .
In the economic sphere , the Irish state  रै था a मिश्रित प्रदर्शन  .
On  स्वतंत्रता , it थी एक of the wealthier देशों in  Europe per head of population .
However it also inherited from British rule the  समस्याएं of बेरोजगारी , करणों , uneven भौगोलिक विकास  and lack of a native industrial base .
For much of its history ,  the राज्य struggled to rectify  these problems .
Particular peaks of emigration were  अंकित दौरान the लेट 1930s , 1950s और 1980s , जब the आयरिश अर्थव्यवस्था अंकित  little growth .
In the 1930s , Fianna Fáil  सरकारें attempted to बनाएँ आयरिश घरेलू उद्योग using subsidies  and protective tarifs .
In the late 1950s , these  नीतियों यहूद dropped in पक्ष of फ़्री व्यापार साथ चयनित देशों और प्रोत्साहित of  foreign investment with low taxes .
This was expanded when Ireland entered the  यूरोपीय आर्थिक जातियाँ in 1972 .
In the 1990s and 2000s , Ireland experienced an economic boom  ज्ञात as the सेल्टिक बाघ , in जिससे the देश 's जीडीपी surpassed अनेक of इसके यूरोपीय पड़ोसी  .
Immigration also  surpassed करणों , bringing the राज्य 's जनसांख्यिकी up to  over 4 million .
However , since 2008 , Ireland has experienced a severe crisis in the  बैंकिंग सेक्टर और साथ sovereign  debt .
The resultant  आर्थिक slump रै deepened the प्रभाव  of the world recession on Ireland .
From 1937 to  1998 , the आयरिश संविधान शामिल a अर्जी on उत्तरी आयरलैंड  as a part of the national territory .
However , the state also opposed and used its security forces against those  हथियारबंद समूह - प्रधानतया the अस्थायी आयरिश रिपब्लिकन फौज , जो  tried to unite Ireland by force .
This  occurred in the 1950s , throughout the 1970s  and 1980s and has continued on a reduced scale .
Irish governments meanwhile tried to  दलाली an अनुबंध to the विरोध ज्ञात as the परेशानियों भीतर उत्तरी  Ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s .
The British government officially recognised the right of  the आयरिश सरकारी to be a पार्टी to the उत्तरी negotiations in the anglo-irish  Agreement of 1985 .
In 1998 , as part of the Good Friday Agreement , the Irish constitution was  altered by referendum to हटाएँ the territorial अर्जी to उत्तरी आयरलैंड और बजाय extend the सही of आयरिश नागरिकता to सब  the people of the island should they wish to have it .
John Quincy Adams ( July 11 ,  1767february 23 , 1848 ) थी the छठे अध्यक्ष of the  United States ( 1825–1829 ) .
He served  as अमरीकी राजनयिक , सीनेटर , और congressional  representative .
He was a member of the Federalist ,  democratic-republican , नेशनल रिपब्लिकन , और बाद anti-masonic और whig पार्टियों  .
Adams was the son of former  अध्यक्ष जॉन एडम्स और अबीगैल एडम्स  .
As a diplomat , Adams played an  महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in negotiating अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय treaties , सबसे notably the सन्धि  of Ghent , which ended the War of 1812 .
As Secretary of State , he negotiated with the United Kingdom  over अमेरिका 's उत्तरी किनारा साथ कनाडा , negotiated साथ स्पेन the annexation of फ्लोरिडा , और authored the मुनरो  Doctrine .
Historians agree he was one of the greatest  राजनयिकों और secretaries of राज्य in अमरीकी  history .
As president ,  he sought to modernize the अमरीकी अर्थव्यवस्था  and promoted education .
Adams enacted a part of his agenda and  सशुल्क बंद much of the नेशनल कर्ज़ .
He was stymied by a Congress  नियंत्रित by उसके दुश्मनों , और उसके कमी of patronage संजाल helped राजनेता eager to undercut  him .
He lost his  1828 बोली लिये re-election to एंड्रयू  Jackson .
In doing so , he became the first  अध्यक्ष चूंकि उसके पिता to serve a सिंगल  term .
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's foreign policy in line  साथ उसके ardently राष्ट्रवादी प्रतिबद्धता to अमेरिका 's रिपब्लिकन मान  .
More recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed Adams as the  exemplar और moral नेता in an era of modernization  .
During Adams '  आजीवन , technological नवप्रवर्तनों और नई अर्थात् of संचार स्प्रेड संदेश of धार्मिक  revival , social reform , and party politics .
Goods  , धन , और लोगों traveled अधिक rapidly और efficiently  than ever before .
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts  बाद leaving दफ्तर , सेवारत लिये the पिछला 17 सालो of उसके जीवन साथ दूर  greater acclamation than he had achieved as president .
He is , so far , the only  अध्यक्ष बाद निर्वाचित to the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि ( हालांकि जॉन टायलर थी निर्वाचित to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ) .
Animated by his  growing revulsion विरूद्ध गुलामी , एडम्स became a अग्रणी  opponent of the Slave Power .
He predicted that if a civil war were to break  आउट , the अध्यक्ष could abolish गुलामी by using उसके युद्ध शक्तियां  .
Adams  भी पूर्वानुमानित the संघ 's विच्छेद over the गुलामी समस्या , लकिन कहा कि if the दक्षिण became स्वतंत्र वहीँ  would be a series of bloody slave revolts .
खिड़कियाँ अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 ( ie9 ) is a संस्करण of  the Internet Explorer web browser from Microsoft .
It was  released to the पब्लिक on कूच 14  , 2011 .
Microsoft has released Internet  एक्सप्लोरर 9 as a प्रमुख out-of-band संस्करण कि is नहीं tied to the रिलीज अनुसूची of कोई particular  version of Windows , unlike previous versions .
It is the first version since Internet  एक्सप्लोरर 2 to नहीं be bundled साथ a खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली , हालांकि कुछ oems have संस्थापित it साथ खिड़कियाँ 7 on उनके pcs  , as well as new Windows 7 laptops .
The system requirements for Internet Explorer 9 are  खिड़कियाँ 7 , खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008 r2 , खिड़कियाँ विस्टा सेवा पैक 2 or खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008  SP2 with the Platform Update .
Windows XP  और पहले हैं नहीं  supported .
Internet Explorer 9 is the last version  of अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर to be समर्थित  on Windows Vista .
Both IA-32  और x64 builds हैं उपलब्धियाँ  .
Internet Explorer 9 supports several CSS 3 properties  , अंतःस्थापित आईसीसी v2 or v4 रंग प्रोफ़ाइल support via खिड़कियाँ रंग प्रणाली , और  has improved JavaScript performance .
It is the last of the five major web browsers to  implement support लिये स्केलेबल वेक्टर ग्राफिक्स ( svg  ) .
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D , hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite , hardware-accelerated video rendering using Media Foundation , imaging support  provided by खिड़कियाँ इमेजिंग घटक , और ऊँची वफ़ादारी मुद्रण संचालित by the xml पेपर specification ( xps ) छपाई पाइपलाइन .
Internet Explorer 9 also  supports the html5 वीडियो और ऑडियो टैग और the वेब  Open Font Format .
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid  और पीड़ा reliever पहला marketed by the dr . मील आयुर्विज्ञान  Company .
It was developed by Maurice Treener , head  केमिस्ट at मील , in elkhart , इंडियाना .
alka-seltzer is marketed लिये राहत of नाबालिग aches , pains , सूजन , ज्वर , सिरदर्द , heartburn , खट्टा पेट  , indigestion , and hangovers , while neutralizing excess stomach acid .
It  थी शुभारम्भ  in 1931 .
A  spin-off of alka-seltzer बना to relieve जुकाम और फ्लू , alka-seltzer  Plus , was later introduced .
A short-lived antacid  non-aspirin रूपांतर , alka-mints , थी introduced in  1994 and discontinued in 1997 .
alka-seltzer is फिलहाल  owned by Bayer Schering Pharma AG , Germany .
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate  an संपूर्ण लकीर of medications बेची over the काउंटर और लिया by अर्थात् of rapidly dissolving टैबलेट कि रूप  a carbonated solution in water .
Cherry Alka Seltzer  प्लस टैब्लेट dissolving  in water
Image showing the  छह सबसे आम speleothems साथ  labels .
enlarge to दृश्य  labels .
A stalactite ( , ; from the Greek stalasso , ( σταλάσσω ) , `` to drip  '' , और अर्थ `` कि जिससे drips '' ) is a प्रकार of speleothem ( द्वितीयक  mineral ) that hangs from the ceiling of limestone caves .
It  is a प्रकार of dripstone  .
The corresponding  गठन on the मंजिल of the गुफा is ज्ञात as a stalagmite  .
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an academic degree instead of spelling  आउट the शीर्षक in पूरा , ऐसे as in सन्दर्भ किताबे जैसे जो 's जो और on कारोबार ताश .
Many degrees have  अधिक than एक संक्षिप्त  .
In  the uk , it is नहीं generally the कस्टम to punctuate abbreviations लिये डिग्री  with full stops ( e.g . `` BSc '' rather than `` B.Sc . `` .
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans  into विशाल और पृथक populations or समूह by anatomical , सांस्कृतिक , जातीय , जेनेटिक , भौगोलिक  , historical , linguistic , religious , or social affiliation .
First  प्रयुक्त to denote नेशनल संबद्धों , the पद began to be प्रयुक्त  to relate to physical traits in the 17th century .
In the early 20th century the term was often used , in a taxonomic sense , to denote genetically  differentiated इंसान populations पारिभाषित by phenotype  .
While biologists  sometimes उपयोग the अवधारणा of रेस to मेक भेद among फजी सेट of traits , अन्य in the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ सुझाएँ कि the विचार of रेस प्रायः is प्रयुक्त in a भोली or simplistic रास्ता , i.e  . that among humans , race has no taxonomic significance : all living humans belong to the same species , Homo sapiens and subspecies , Homo sapiens sapiens .
Social conceptions and  groupings of दौड़ vary over समय , involving  folk taxonomies
that define of individuals  आधारित on आभास traits  .
वैज्ञानिकों consider biological essentialism obsolete , और generally discourage जातिगत स्पष्टीकरण लिये सामूहिक  differentiation in both physical and behavioral traits .
Since the second half of the 20th century the  एसोसिएशन of रेस साथ the विचारधाराओं और theories कि grew आउट of the कार्य of 19th-century विज्ञानियों और physiologists रै led to the उपयोग of the शब्द  race itself becoming problematic .
Although still used in general  contexts , it is अभी प्रायः replaced by अन्य शब्द जिससे हैं कम अस्पष्ट और emotionally चार्ज , ऐसे  as populations , people ( s ) , ethnic groups or communities depending on context .
Lucy Stone ( August  13 , 1818 – अक्तूबर 19 , 1893 ) थी a prominent अमरीकी abolitionist और suffragist  , and a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights for women .
In 1847 , Stone became the  पहला स्त्री इससे मैसाचुसेट्स  to earn a college degree .
She spoke out for  महिलाओं 's अधिकारों और विरूद्ध गुलामी at a समय जब महिलाओं यहूद हतोत्साहित  and prevented from public speaking .
Stone was the first recorded American  स्त्री to retain उसके अपना पिछला नाम बाद  marriage .
Stone 's organizational activities for  the कारण of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों yielded ठोस gains in the मुश्किल राजनैतिक पर्यावरण  of the 19th century .
स्टोन helped initiate the पहला नेशनल महिलाओं 's अधिकारों सम्मेलन और वो समर्थित और sustained it annually साथ साथ a क्रमांक of अन्य  local , state and regional activist conventions .
Stone  spoke in सामने of a क्रमांक of विधान लाशें to प्रचार  laws giving more rights to women .
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery , after which she helped  रूप the largest समूह of like-minded महिलाओं 's अधिकारों reformers , the नीतियां मॉडरेट अमरीकी स्त्री suffrage संघ , जिससे worked लिये  decades at the state level in favor of women 's right to vote .
Stone wrote extensively about a wide range of women 's rights  , प्रकाशन और distributing भाषणों by herself और  others , and convention proceedings .
In the long-running and  influential स्त्री 's जर्नल , a साप्ताहिक periodical कि वो स्थापित और प्रचारित  , Stone aired both her own and differing views about women 's rights .
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of  the स्त्री 's अधिकारों गति '' , स्टोन वितरित a वाक जिससे sparked सुसान B. एंथोनी to लो up the कारण  of women 's suffrage .
Elizabeth Cady  stanton लिखा कि `` लुसी स्टोन थी the पहला व्यक्ति by जिसको the दिल  of the American public was deeply stirred on the woman question . ''
Together , Anthony , Stanton , and Stone have been  पुकारा the 19th सदी `` triumvirate `` of महिलाओं 's suffrage  and feminism .
In  वित्त , a बंध is an यंत्र of indebtedness of the  bond issuer to the holders .
It is a debt security , under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and , depending on the terms of the bond , is obliged to pay them interest  ( the कूपन ) or to repay the प्रिंसिपल at a बाद तिथि , termed the  maturity .
Interest is  प्रायः देय at फिक्स्ड intervals ( semiannual , सालाना , sometimes  monthly ) .
Very often the bond is negotiable , i.e . the ownership of  the यंत्र can be transferred in the द्वितीयक  market .
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the holder of the  बंध is the lender ( creditor ) , the जारीकर्ता of the बंध is the borrower ( debtor ) , और the कूपन  is the interest .
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to finance  long-term निवेश , or , in the मामला of सरकारी bonds , to वित्त वर्तमान व्यय  .
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term commercial paper are  माना to be धन मार्केट यंत्र और नहीं bonds : the प्रमुख अंतर is  in the length of the term of the instrument .
Bonds and stocks are both  प्रतिभूति , लकिन the प्रमुख अंतर between the दो is कि ( पूंजी ) stockholders have an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in the कम्पनी ( i.e . वे हैं स्वामी ) , whereas  bondholders have a creditor stake in the company ( i.e . they are lenders ) .
another अंतर is कि bonds प्रायः have a पारिभाषित पद , or परिपक्वता , बाद जिससे the बंध  is redeemed , whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely .
An exception is an irredeemable bond , such as  consols , जिससे is a perpetuity , i.e . a बंध साथ no परिपक्वता  .
a स्केल मॉडल of the मीनार  of London .
This  मॉडल can be मिला अंदर  the tower .
स्केल मॉडल of जल  powered turbine
L to R with 12 inch  शासक at नीचे : 1:64 matchbox शेवरलेट tahoe , 1:43 घाट f-100 ,  1:25 Revell Monogram 1999 Ford Mustang Cobra , 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
मॉडल जहाजों  and castle
A scale model is a physical model , a  प्रतिनिधित्व or नक़ल of an ऑब्जेक्ट कि is larger or छोटी than the वास्तविक आकार of the ऑब्जेक्ट , जिससे  seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical size of the original object .
Very often the scale model is used as a guide  to बनाना the ऑब्जेक्ट in पूरा आकार  .
Scale models are built  or एकत्रित लिये अनेक कारण  .
the zune hd थी a पोर्टेबल मीडिया खिलाड़ी in the zune उत्पाद परिवार  released on September 15 , 2009 by Microsoft .
It was a direct competitor  साथ the ठहराना ipod और iphone श्रेणी of मोबाईल  devices .
It was initially released  in 16 और 32 gb capacities  .
A 64 GB version  थी released on अप्रैल 9 , 2010  .
It utilized a  टचस्क्रीन इंटरफ़ेस लिये नेविगेशन और शामिल wi-fi लिये तुल्यकालन , अभिगम  to the Zune Marketplace and Web browsing .
The Zune HD utilized the Nvidia Tegra APX 2600 chip , allowing it to play 720p  वीडियो through the वैकल्पिक hdmi zune डॉक on a high-definition  television .
Otherwise , content  होता be scaled bas to 480x272 पिक्सेल on the खिलाड़ी 's  OLED touchscreen .
Old  sparky , the इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी प्रयुक्त  at Sing Sing prison
Execution by electrocution , usually  performed using an इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी , is an निष्पादन विधि originating in the संयुक्त राज्य in जिससे the condemned व्यक्ति is strapped to a विशेषकर निर्मित  wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body .
This execution method was created by employees of  थामस एडिसन दौरान the युद्ध of currents , और रै महरूम प्रयुक्त तभी in the संयुक्त राज्य और , लिये a काल of अनेक  decades , in the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation , last in 1976 ) .
historically , एकबार the condemned व्यक्ति थी संलग्न to the कुर्सी , विभिन्न चक्र ( differing in वोल्टेज और अवधि ) of प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान होता be passed  through the individual 's body , in order to cause fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ) .
The first jolt of electric current was designed to cause  तात्कालिक unconsciousness और दिमाग मौत ; the दूसरी एक थी designed to कारण fatal  damage to the vital organs .
Death  थी अक्सर caused by विद्युत  overstimulation of the heart .
Although in the United States the  इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी रै become a प्रतीक of the मौत दंड , इसके उपयोग is in मनाही due to the वृद्धि of lethal इंजेक्शन , जिससे is  widely believed to be a more humane method of execution .
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a method of execution , today it is only maintained as  a द्वितीयक विधि कि may be चुनी over lethal इंजेक्शन at the निवेदन of the कैदी .
As of 2010 , electrocution is an optional  रूप of निष्पादन in अलबामा , फ्लोरिडा , दक्षिण कैरोलिना और  Virginia .
They  allow the कैदी to चुनें lethal  injection as an alternative method .
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee , the electric  कुर्सी रै महरूम रिटायर्ड मगर लिये those जिनकी पूंजी अपराधों यहूद वचनबद्ध prior to legislated तिथियाँ  in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31 , 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31 , 1998 ) and who chose electrocution .
In both states , inmates who do not choose electrocution or inmates who committed their  अपराधों बाद the designated तिथि हैं मारे by lethal इंजेक्शन  .
The electric chair is an  वैकल्पिक रूप of निष्पादन स्वीकृत लिये संभावित उपयोग in अरकंसास और ओक्लाहोमा if अन्य फ़ॉर्म of निष्पादन हैं  found unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution .
It is the sole method  of निष्पादन in वर्मांट , जहाँ देशद्रोह is the तभी पूंजी अपराधों  .
On February 8 , 2008 , the Nebraska Supreme Court determined that  निष्पादन by इलेक्ट्रिक कुर्सी थी a `` बेदर्द और असामान्य दंड '' अंतर्गत the राज्य 's संविधान  .
This brought executions of  इस प्रकार to an समाप्त in नेब्रास्का , the तभी बाकी राज्य to retain electrocution  as its sole method of execution for murder .
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the  सामान्य सभा , the राज्य विधानमंडल of the अमरीकी राज्य of मेरीलैंड , और is रचित of 141 delegates  elected from 47 districts .
The  हाउस of delegates कक्ष is स्तिथ in the मेरीलैंड राज्य हाउस ( राज्य कैपिटल ) on  State Circle in Annapolis , which is the state capital .
The State House also houses the Maryland State Senate Chamber and  the कार्यालयों of the राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल of the  State of Maryland .
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis , in  the आसपास कैस्पर R. टेलर , jr. हाउस  Office Building .
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the Battle for Paris )  took प्लेस दौरान संसार युद्ध ii इससे 19 अगस्त 1944 जबतक the आत्मसमर्पण of the occupying जर्मनी गैरीसन on 25 अगस्त  .
The Liberation of Paris started with an  uprising by the फ्रेंच प्रतिरोध विरूद्ध the जर्मनी गैरीसन  .
On  24 अगस्त , the फ्रेंच शक्तियां of the आंतरिक ( शक्तियां françaises de l'intérieur , ffi ) प्राप्त सुदृढीकरण  from the Free French Army of Liberation and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton .
The capital region of France had been governed by Nazi Germany since the signing of the Second Compiègne Armistice  in जून 1940 , जब the जर्मनी फौज occupied उत्तरी और westernmost फ़्रांस , और जब the कठपुतली शासन of vichy  France was established in the town of Vichy in central France .
This battle marked the liberation of Paris and the  निर्वासन of the vichy सरकारी to sigmaringen  in Germany .
However  , वहीँ थी स्टिल much भारी लड़ to be किया पहले फ़्रांस थी liberated , सहित the अभियान in दक्षिणी फ़्रांस दौरान august-september ( in provence और extending into the southwestern प्रदेश of the vosges kyu ) , साथ the german-held seaports of पश्चिमी फ़्रांस  ( such as at Brest and Dunkirk ) , in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France , and in northeastern France , such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers .
The German  फौज और ss लड़ा doggedly in ये क्षेत्रों लिये the शेष  of 1944 and into 1945 .
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as ``  अहसास alright '' is a सोंग लिखा by डेव मेसन of the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड ट्रैफ़िक इससे उनके  eponymous 1968 album , Traffic .
The song was also a hit single for several performers :  जो cocker ( 1969 , # 69 , recharted in 1972 , us # 33 ) , mongo santamaría  ( 1969 , # 95 ) and Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971 , US # 54 ) .
It has also been  अंकित by तीन श्वान रात्रि ( 1969 ) , the 5th आयाम ( 1970 ) , लू राल्स , फ्रेडी किंग , पॉल weller , lulu , chairmen of the फलक ( 1970 ) , विरल धरती , the इलेक्ट्रिक  Concept Orchestra , Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ) , The Ohio Players ( 1971 ) , Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ) , Maceo Parker , Gladys Knight & the Pips , Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes .
A Steel Drum  संस्करण by त्रिनिदाद आयल कम्पनी थी reissued on the dancefloor  jazz compilation Blue Juice 2 .
It was also featured in  the 2000 फिल्मी duets , सुंग by huey  Lewis .
Both the original and the Joe Cocker cover were  प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म उड़ान , अभिनीत डेंज़ल वॉशिंगटन  .
देवों werkheiser ( born कूच 8,1991 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता , आवाज़ कर्ता , सिंगर , songwriter और संगीतकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिका as ned bigby on  the Nickelodeon sitcom Ned 's Declassified School Survival Guide and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules , as the lead character Nolan Byrd .
Werkheiser also played Peter  parkes in the चौथी और फाइनल ऋतु of the एबीसी परिवार  show Greek .
Sample view of an  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड आधारित  on images
Sample view  of an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य  record
An electronic  स्वास्थ्य रिकार्ड ( ehr ) is an evolving अवधारणा पारिभाषित as a व्यवस्थित संग्रहण of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य सूचना  about individual patients or populations .
It is a record in digital  स्वरूप कि is theoretically सक्षम of होने साझा आरपार  different health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected  enterprise-wide सूचना प्रणालियों और अन्य सूचना संजाल or exchanges  .
EHRs may include a range of data , including demographics ,  चिकित्सा इतिहास , दवा और allergies , immunization औकात , प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण परिणाम , radiology  images , vital signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing information .
Loan origination is the process by which a  borrower applies लिये a नई ऋण , और a lender प्रक्रियाओं कि अनुप्रयोग  .
Origination generally includes all the steps  इससे लेने a ऋण अनुप्रयोग up to disbursal of निधि ( or घटती  the application ) .
Loan servicing  कवर सबकुछ बाद disbursing the निधि जबतक  the loan is fully paid off .
Loan origination is a  specialized संस्करण of नई खाता खोलने लिये वित्तीय  services organizations .
Certain  लोगों और संगठन specialize  in loan origination .
Mortgage  brokers और अन्य बंधक originator कंपनियाँ  serve as a prominent example .
There are many  अलग प्रकार of लोन  .
For more information on  ऋण प्रकार , देखिए the ऋण और उपभोक्ता lending आलेख  .
Steps  शामिल in originating a ऋण vary by ऋण प्रकार , विभिन्न kinds of ऋण  risk , regulator , lender policy , and other factors .
Top left : The  टेनेसी घाटी प्राधिकार , भाग of the नई सौदे , होने हस्ताक्षरित  into law in 1933 .
Top right : Franklin Delano Roosevelt ,  जो थी जिम्मेदार लिये पहलों और कार्यक्रम collectively  known as the New Deal .
Bottom : A public mural from one of the  कलाकारों employed by the नई सौदे  .
The New Deal was a series  of आर्थिक कार्यक्रम enacted in the संयुक्त राज्य between  1933 and 1936 .
They involved presidential executive  आदेश or कानून passed by कॉंग्रेस दौरान the पहला पद of अध्यक्ष  Franklin D. Roosevelt .
The programs were in response to the Great Depression , and focused on  कया इतिहासकारों कॉल the `` 3 rs '' : राहत , रिकवरी  , and Reform .
That is Relief for the unemployed and poor ; Recovery of the economy to normal levels ; and  सुधार of the वित्तीय प्रणाली to prevent a repeat  depression .
The New Deal produced a political  realignment , बनाना the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी the बहुमत ( as खूब as the पार्टी कि आयोजित the श्वेत  House for seven out of nine Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ) , with its base in liberal ideas , the white South , traditional Democrats , big city machines , and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities .
The Republicans were split  , साथ conservatives opposing the संपूर्ण नई सौदे as an दुश्मन of कारोबार और विकास ,  and liberals accepting some of it and promising to make it more efficient .
The realignment crystallized  into the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि वर्चस्व सबसे अध्यक्षीय चुनावों into the 1960s , जबकि  the opposition Conservative Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963 .
By 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically was used for supporters of the New  सौदे , और `` रूढ़िवादी `` लिये इसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  .
इससे 1934 to 1938 , रूज़वेल्ट थी assisted in उसके endeavours by a “pro-spender” बहुमत in कॉंग्रेस  ( drawn from two-party , competitive , non-machine , Progressive , and Left party districts ) .
As noted by Alexander Hicks , “Roosevelt , backed by rare , non-Southern Democrat  majorities — 270 non-southern डेमोक्रेट प्रतिनिधि और 71 non-southern डेमोक्रेट सीनेटरों — spelled दूसरी  New Deal reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34  ) और a `` दूसरी नई सौदे '' ( 1935–38 ) , साथ the दूसरी एक अधिक उदार और अधिक  controversial .
the `` पहला नई सौदे '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt साथ विविध समूह , इससे  banking and railroads to industry and farming , all of which demanded help for economic survival .
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration , for instance , provided $ 500 million  लिये राहत परिचालन by राज्य और शहरों , जबकि the short-lived cwa ( सिविल works प्रशासन ) दिया बस्तियों धन  to operate make-work projects in 1933-34 .
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38 included the Wagner Act to promote labor unions , the Works Progress  प्रशासन ( wpa ) राहत कार्यक्रम ( जिससे बना the संघीय सरकारी by दूर the largest सिंगल नियोक्ता in the स्वदेश ) , the सोशल सुरक्षा  Act , and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers .
The final major  वस्तुएं of नई सौदे विधान यहूद the सृष्टि of the संयुक्त राज्य आवास प्राधिकार और फार्म सुरक्षा  Administration , both in 1937 , and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 , which set maximum hours and minimum wages for most categories of workers .
The economic downturn of  1937–38 , और the कड़वा विभाजित between the afl और cio मजदूर संघ led to प्रमुख  Republican gains in Congress in 1938 .
Conservative Republicans  और डेमोक्रेट in कॉंग्रेस joined in the अनौपचारिक रूढ़िवादी  Coalition .
By 1942–43  वे shut bas राहत कार्यक्रम ऐसे as the wpa और  CCC and blocked major liberal proposals .
रूज़वेल्ट खुद turned उसके ध्यान to the युद्ध प्रयत्न , और  won reelection in 1940 and 1944 .
The Supreme Court declared the  नेशनल रिकवरी प्रशासन ( nra ) और the पहला संस्करण of the agricultural समायोजन अधिनियम ( aaa ) असंवैधानिक , however  the AAA was rewritten and then upheld .
As the first Republican president elected after FDR ,  ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर ( 1953–61 ) बाएँ the नई सौदे largely बरकरार ,  even expanding it in some areas .
In the 1960s , Lyndon B. Johnson 's  ग्रेट समाज प्रयुक्त the नई सौदे as प्रेरणा लिये a नाटकीय विस्तार of उदार कार्यक्रम , जिससे रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड M. निक्सन generally  retained .
बाद 1974 , however , the कॉल लिये deregulation  of the economy gained bipartisan support .
The New  सौदे विनियमन of बैंकिंग ( glass–steagall अधिनियम  ) was suspended in the 1990s .
Many New Deal programs remain active , with some still operating  अंतर्गत the असली names , सहित the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम ( fdic ) , the संघीय  Crop Insurance Corporation ( FCIC ) , the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) , and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ) .
The largest programs still in existence today are the  सोशल सुरक्षा प्रणाली और the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग  ( SEC ) .
A woman ( )  , pl : महिलाओं ( ) is a मादा इंसान  .
The term woman is usually  सुरक्षित लिये an वयस्क , साथ the पद लड़की होने the usual पद लिये a मादा  child or adolescent .
However , the term woman is also sometimes used  to पहचानो a मादा इंसान , regardless of आयु , as in वाक्यांश ऐसे as `` महिलाओं 's अधिकारों  `` .
महिलाओं हैं typically सक्षम of giving जनम , हालांकि पुरानी  women who have gone through menopause and some intersex women can not .
`` I Do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is a song  performed by अमरीकी चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ लिये the 1998 फिल्मी armageddon .
Written by Diane Warren , the  सोंग debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 ( the पहला # 1 लिये the बैंड बाद 28 सालो  together ) .
the सोंग ठहरे at क्रमांक एक लिये चार सप्ताह  from September 5 to September 26 , 1998 .
The song  भी ठहरे at क्रमांक 1 लिये अनेक सप्ताह in  several other countries .
In the UK , the song peaked at  क्रमांक चार , बनने एरोस्मिथ 's उच्चतम charting सोंग in the uk , जहाँ it थी the  17th best-selling single of 1998 , and has sold over a million copies .
Although not used  by the बहुमत of the संसार 's देशों , daylight छायांकन समय  is common in the Western world .
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer time in British  अंग्रेज़ी — is the अभ्यास of advancing घड़ियाँ दौरान the हल्का महीने so कि evenings have  more daylight and mornings have less .
Typically clocks are adjusted forward one hour near the  प्रारंभ of वसन्त और हैं समायोजित पिछड़ा in  autumn .
The  आधुनिक विचार of daylight छायांकन थी पहला प्रस्तावित in 1895 by जार्ज vernon हडसन और  it was first implemented during the First World War .
Many countries have used  it at विभिन्न टाइम्स चूंकि तब  .
Much of  the संयुक्त राज्य प्रयुक्त dst in the 1950s और 1960s , और dst उपयोग विस्तारित following the 1970s उर्जा संकट और रै  been widely used in North America and Europe since then .
The  अभ्यास रै महरूम दोनो praised और  criticized .
Adding daylight to evenings  लाभ retailing , खेल , और अन्य क्रियाएँ कि exploit धूप बाद working घंटों , लकिन can कारण समस्याएं  for evening entertainment and other occupations tied to the sun .
Although  an जल्दी लक्ष्य of dst थी to reduce संध्या उपयोग of incandescent lighting ( formerly a प्राथमिक उपयोग of विद्युत ) , आधुनिक हीटिंग और कूलिंग उपयोग पैटर्न  differ greatly , and research about how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory .
DST clock shifts  उपस्थित अन्य चुनौतियां  .
They  complicate timekeeping , और can disrupt बैठक , सफर , बिलिंग , रिकार्ड  keeping , medical devices , heavy equipment , and sleep patterns .
Software can often adjust  कंप्यूटर घड़ियाँ automatically , लकिन इस can be सीमित और error-prone  , particularly when DST dates are changed .
floorplan of the château de montargis
montargis is a कम्यून in the loiret विभाग in north-central फ़्रांस  on the Loing river .
the कस्बा is स्तिथ परिचय दक्षिण of पेरिस  and east of Orléans in the Gâtinais .
Montargis is the  दूसरी largest नगर in the loiret , बाद  Orléans .
It is near a large  वन , और contains लाइट उद्योग और खेती , सहित  saffron .
Due to its numerous canals and bridges , Montargis sometimes bills  itself as the `` वेनिस of the gâtinais . ''
Though quite modern , it retains a  मध्यकालीन आकर्षण in इसके शहर  area .
In computer storage , a logical  ईकाई क्रमांक , or lun , is a क्रमांक प्रयुक्त to पहचानो a लॉजिकल ईकाई , जिससे is a यंत्र addressed by the scsi  protocol or protocols which encapsulate SCSI , such as Fibre Channel or iSCSI .
A LUN may be used with any  यंत्र जिससे supports read/write परिचालन , ऐसे as a टेप ड्राइव , लकिन is सबसे  often used to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN .
Though not  technically सही , the पद `` lun '' is प्रायः भी प्रयुक्त to refer  to the logical disk itself .
The  इन्जील according to चिह्नित ( , , to euangelion kata markon ) , commonly shortened to the इन्जील of चिह्नित or बस चिह्नित , is the दूसरी  book of the New Testament .
This canonical account of the  जीवन of यीशु of नासरत is एक of the तीन  synoptic gospels .
It was thought to be an  निचोड़ , जिससे खाते लिये इसके प्लेस as the  second gospel in the Bible .
However , most  समकालीन विद्वानों अभी लिहाज़ it as  the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ) .
That Mark was used as a source for the other  synoptic gospels इन्जील of मैथ्यू और इन्जील of ल्यूक is widely आयोजित by अनेक , हालांकि  not all , New Testament scholars .
The Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of Jesus  इससे उसके बपतिस्मा by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट to उसके मौत  and resurrection .
It  focuses विशेषकर on the पिछला सप्ताह of उसके जीवन ( अध्याय  11–16 ) in Jerusalem .
Its  स्विफ्ट कथा portrays यीशु as a वीर man of कार्रवाई , an exorcist  , healer and miracle worker .
An important  थीम of चिह्नित is the मुक्तिदाता  Secret .
Jesus silences the  demoniacs he heals , कोशिशें unsuccessfully to रखना उसके मुक्तिदाता पहचान रहस्य , और conceals  his message with parables .
Meanwhile , the disciples fail to  समझे दोनो the implication of the चमत्कार of यीशु और the अर्थ of the बाते he predicts  about his arrest , death and resurrection .
Most scholars  मानना कि the असली टेक्स्ट of the इन्जील ends at चिह्नित 16:8 साथ the डिस्कवरी of यीशु ' खाली मकबरा और कि the following  account of his resurrection appearances is a later addition .
according to परंपरा और कुछ जल्दी गिरिजाघर लेखक , the  author is Mark the Evangelist , the companion of the apostle Peter .
The gospel ,  however , appears to rely on अनेक underlying स्त्रोत , varying in रूप और in धर्मशास्त्र , जिससे tells  against the tradition that the gospel was based on Peter 's preaching .
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness accounts as well as known apostolic preachings , and pre-existing written records that do  नहीं मौजूद आज लकिन can be पुष्टि इससे 2nd-century टीकाकारों  .
Some of the stories  in the इन्जील may have महरूम transmitted  orally before being written down .
Various elements within the  इन्जील सुझाएँ कि the लेखक लिखा in सीरियाई or फिलिस्तीन  for a non-Jewish Christian community .
The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy  अनोखा लिखा by अंग्रेज़ी भाषाशास्त्री और विश्वविद्यालयों of ऑक्सफोर्ड प्राध्यापक  J. R. R. Tolkien .
The story began as a sequel to Tolkien 's 1937  children 's काल्पनिक अनोखा the होब्बिट , लकिन आखिरकार विकसित into a much larger कार्य  .
It was written in stages between 1937  और 1949 , much of it दौरान संसार युद्ध ii  .
It is the second  best-selling अनोखा कभी लिखा , साथ over 150 लाख नक़ल बेची  .
The title of the novel refers to the story 's main  विपक्षी , the अंधेरा रब sauron , जो था in an पहले आयु निर्मित the एक रिंग to नियम the अन्य बजती of शक्ति as the परम हथियार in उसके अभियान to जीतें और  rule all of Middle-earth .
From quiet beginnings in the Shire , a Hobbit land not unlike the English  countryside , the स्टोरी सीमाएँ आरपार north-west middle-earth , following the कोर्स of the युद्ध of the रिंग through the आँखें of इसके वर्ण , notably the hobbits frodo baggins , samwise `` sam '' gamgee , meriadoc `` मैरी '' brandybuck और peregrin `` pippin '' took  , but also the hobbits ' chief allies and travelling companions : Aragorn , a Human Ranger ; Boromir , a man from Gondor ; Gimli , a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas , an Elven prince ; and Gandalf , a Wizard .
The work was initially intended by Tolkien to be one volume of a  two-volume नियत , साथ the अन्य होने the silmarillion , लकिन इस विचार थी बर्खास्त by उसके प्रकाशक  .
It was decided for economic reasons to publish The Lord of the  बजती as तीन आयतन over the कोर्स of a साल इससे 29 जुलाई 1954 to 20 अक्तूबर 1955 , यूँ बनाना  the now familiar Lord of the Rings trilogy .
The three volumes were entitled The Fellowship  of the रिंग , the दो मीनारें , और the वापसी of the किंग  .
structurally , the अनोखा is विभाजित internally into छह किताबे , दो प्रति  volume , with several appendices of background material included at the end of the third volume .
The Lord of the Rings has since been reprinted  numerous टाइम्स और अनूदित into अनेक भाषाएं  .
Tolkien  's कार्य रै महरूम the विषय of extensive  analysis of its themes and origins .
Although a major work in itself , the story was only the last  गति of a larger एपिक tolkien था worked on चूंकि 1917 , in a प्रक्रम he  described as mythopoeia .
प्रभाव on इस पहले कार्य , और on the स्टोरी of the रब of the बजती , शामिल philology , mythology , धर्म और the लेखक  's distaste for the effects of industrialization , as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien 's experiences in World War I .
The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have had a great effect on modern fantasy ; the impact of Tolkien 's works is such that  the उपयोग of the शब्द `` tolkienian '' और `` tolkienesque '' have महरूम अंकित in the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी  Dictionary .
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has  led to numerous सन्दर्भ in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति , the founding of अनेक समाजों by प्रशंसक of tolkien 's works , और the प्रकाशन of अनेक किताबे परिचय tolkien और उसके works  .
The Lord of the Rings has inspired ,  और continues to inspire , कलाकृति , म्यूज़िक , films और टेलीविज़न , वीडियो खेल , और subsequent  literature .
Award-winning  adaptations of the रब of the बजती have महरूम  made for radio , theatre , and film .
The following is an  एपीसोड सूची लिये the निकलोडियन sitcom ड्रेक  & Josh .
The series  debuted on जनवरी 11 , 2004  .
A TV film Merry Christmas , Drake & Josh  थी बना अलावा इससे the नियमित श्रेणी on  December 5 , 2008 .
There are a total of 60  एपीसोड यहूद उत्पादित spanning चार सीज़न  .
Drake  घंटी , जोश पेक , और मिरांडा cosgrove यहूद the तभी अभिनेताओं to appear in सब  60 episodes .
The San Francisco 49ers conduct  प्रशिक्षण शिविर at the टोली 's मुख्यालय और अभ्यास सुविधा in सांता क्लारा , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in August 2010 .
The offense is wearing red jerseys with the exception of  क्वार्टरबैक एलेक्स स्मिथ , जो is in a ब्लैक जर्सी ; the रक्षा  in white .
In the National Football League ,  प्रशिक्षण शिविर refers to the समय पहले the ऋतु  commences .
During this time , teams will sometimes  congregate at an बाहर स्थान , प्रायः a विश्वविद्यालयों , to conduct प्रशिक्षण  camp for at least the first few weeks .
इस is समान to बेसबॉल 's  spring training .
Training camp is  प्रयुक्त in अनेक अलग  ways .
New players and  कोच उपयोग it to acclimate themselves to नई teammates  and systems .
For  younger खिलाड़ी , it serves as a काल of मूल्यांकन ;  for veterans , it is time to round back into form .
प्रशिक्षण शिविर is विभाजित into अनेक  different components .
The  पहला is scrimmages  .
These  हैं pseudo-games जहाँ टीमों चलाएं nearly पूरा  games ' worth of plays .
Sometimes , two practice  सत्र हैं आयोजित on the वही दिन .
This concept is  referred to as two-a-days  .
Other parts of training camp include drills , meetings  साथ कोच और अन्य खिलाड़ी at एक 's स्थिति , वज़न प्रशिक्षण , और pre-season खेल .
The latter half of  प्रशिक्षण शिविर लीड सीधे into the प्रदर्शनी  season .
With NFL training camps starting  in late-july , the biggest चिंता रै महरूम निर्जलीकरण  .
In 2001 ,  मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स खिलाड़ी korey stringer died of a चिकित्सा कंडीशन आधारित इससे  dehydration and heatstroke .
The  मौत of stringer prompted the एनएफएल to बदलें उनके प्रशिक्षण  policies .
At each practice , every  टोली जरूर have the टोली डॉक्टर और प्रशिक्षकों on the फ़ील्ड ; additionally ,  an ambulance must be present during practices .
With NFL training camps  शुरूआत in लेट जुलाई , कठोर मौसम can affect  practice and exhibition games .
In 2002 , a Cleveland Browns exhibition game  ended due to बिजली निकट क्लीवलैंड भूरा स्टेडियम , और कठोर तूफ़ान have  been known to disrupt training camps .
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training  शिविर to कैच an जल्दी dekh at the खिलाड़ी ; प्रवेश to practices is प्रायः फ़्री or substantially कम महंगी than a खेल टिकट , बनाना प्रशिक्षण शिविर यात्राएँ a लोकप्रिय विकल्प लिये प्रशंसक जो can नहीं attend अनेक खेल due to वित्तीय or  other reasons .
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at camp  साइट साथ साथ offering क्रियाएँ और कार्यक्रम to मेक प्रशिक्षण शिविर a अधिक fan-friendly  experience .
In computing , a file system ( or filesystem ) is a  प्रकार of आंकड़ा स्टोर जिससे can be प्रयुक्त to स्टोर , retrieve और अद्यतन a नियत of  files .
The term could refer to the abstract data structures  प्रयुक्त to define फाइलें , or to the वास्तविक तन्त्र or फर्मवेयर components कि implement the  abstract ideas .
Some file systems are used on local data storage devices ;  अन्य provide संचिका अभिगम via a संजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( e.g . nfs , smb , or  9P clients ) .
Some file systems are `` virtual '' , in that the `` files ''  supplied हैं computed on निवेदन ( e.g . procfs ) or हैं merely a मानचित्रण into a अलग  file system used as a backing store .
The file system manages access to both the content of  फाइलें और the मेटाडेटा परिचय those फाइलें  .
It is responsible for arranging storage space ; reliability ,  दक्षता , और ट्यूनिंग साथ लिहाज़ to the शारीरिक भंडार मीडियम हैं महत्वपूर्ण डिज़ाइन considerations  .
विलियम हावर्ड taft ( सितंबर 15 , 1857 – कूच 8 , 1930 ) थी the 27th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ) .
He is the only  व्यक्ति to have परोसा in दोनो of ये  offices .
Before becoming  अध्यक्ष , taft , a रिपब्लिकन , थी चयनित to serve on the श्रेष्ठ अदालत  of Cincinnati in 1887 .
In 1890 , Taft was appointed  solicitor सामान्य of the संयुक्त राज्य और in 1891 a न्यायधीश on the संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of appeals  for the Sixth Circuit .
In 1900 , President William  mckinley नियुक्त taft governor-general of the  Philippines .
In 1904 ,  अध्यक्ष थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट नियुक्त taft सचिव of युद्ध in an प्रयत्न to दूल्हे taft , तब उसके बंद  political ally , into his handpicked presidential successor .
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving , assuming on some occasions the role of  एक्टिंग सचिव of राज्य , जबकि घटती दोहराया offers इससे रूज़वेल्ट to serve on  the Supreme Court .
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow  रिपब्लिकन रूज़वेल्ट , taft जीती an आसान विजय in उसके 1908 बोली  for the presidency .
In his only term , Taft 's domestic agenda  emphasized trust-busting , सिविल सेवा सुधार , strengthening the अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स आयोग , improving the प्रदर्शन of  the postal service , and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment .
Abroad ,  taft sought to further the आर्थिक विकास of राष्ट्र in लैटिन अमेरिका  and Asia through `` Dollar Diplomacy `` , and showed decisiveness and restraint in response to revolution in Mexico .
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the political  ramifications of उसके निर्णय , प्रायः alienated उसके अपना कुंजी constituencies , और थी overwhelmingly पराजित in उसके बोली लिये a दूसरी पद in the अध्यक्षीय  election of 1912 .
In  सर्वेक्षण of अध्यक्षीय विद्वानों , taft is प्रायः क्रमित निकट the मध्य  of lists of all American Presidents .
After leaving office , Taft spent his time in academia ,  मध्यस्थता , और the ढूंढें लिये संसार सलाम through उसके self-founded लीग to enforce सलाम  .
In 1921 , after the First World War ,  अध्यक्ष वारेन G. हार्डिंग नियुक्त taft मुख्य इंसाफ of  the United States .
Taft  परोसा in इस क्षमता जबतक shortly पहले उसके मौत  in 1930 .
The Ten Commandments is  a 1956 एपिक फिल्मी उत्पादित और निर्देशित by सेसिल B. demille कि dramatized the biblical स्टोरी of the exodus , in जिससे the hebrew-born  Moses , an adopted Egyptian prince , becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves .
It starred Charlton Heston in the lead role ,  yul brynner as उसके adoptive bhai , pharaoh rameses ii , ऐनी बैक्सटर as nefretiri , एडवर्ड G. रॉबिन्सन as dathan , yvonne de कार्लो as sephora , डेबरा  Paget as Lilia , and John Derek as Joshua .
The supporting cast includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke  as pharaoh सेती i , नीना foch as bithiah , मार्था स्कॉट as yoshebel , जूडिथ एंडरसन as memnet , विंसेंट दाम as baka , और जॉन carradine as आरोन  .
The film was  released by सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें in vistavision on अक्तूबर  5 , 1956 .
The Ten Commandments , which DeMille narrated ,  थी the पिछला फिल्मी कि he निर्देशित  .
He was set to direct the 1958 remake of his 1938  फिल्मी the buccaneer , लकिन उसके फाइनल बीमारी मजबूर उसे to बाज़ the directing chores to उसके son-in-law , कर्ता  Anthony Quinn .
DeMille had also planned to film the life of Lord  baden पावेल , the संस्थापक of the स्काउट गति , साथ दाउद niven ; इस प्रोजेक्ट थी  never realized .
the टेन आयतें is a आंशिक रीमेक  of DeMille 's 1923 silent film .
Some of the cast and  क्रू of the 1956 संस्करण worked on the असली  .
It has since  महरूम remade as a टेलीविज़न miniseries ब्रॉडकास्ट  in April 2006 .
The  टेन आयतें is एक of the सबसे financially  successful films ever made , grossing over $ 65 million at the U.S. box office .
Adjusting for inflation , this makes it the sixth  highest-grossing फिल्मी domestically , साथ an समायोजित कुल of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012  .
The  बक्सा दफ्तर जालस्थल `` the संख्याएँ '' सूचियाँ  the domestic gross at $ 80 million .
In 1999 , The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States  नेशनल फिल्मी रजिस्ट्री by the पुस्तकालयों of कॉंग्रेस as होने `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant  '' .
In June 2008 , the American Film  संस्थान नाज़िल इसके `` टेन शीर्ष टेन `` —the बेहतरीन टेन films in टेन अमरीकी फिल्मी genres—after polling over 1,500 लोगों इससे  the creative community .
The Ten  आयतें थी सूचीबद्ध as the दसवाँ  best film in the epic genre .
The film received  सात अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations सहित बेहतरीन चित्र , और जीती the अकादमी  Award for Best Visual Effects .
Charlton Heston was  मनोनीत लिये a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति  Picture Actor in the drama category .
Yul Brynner won the National Board of Review Award for Best  कर्ता लिये उसके भूमिका as rameses , साथ साथ उसके अन्य भूमिकाएँ in the  King and I and Anastasia .
Louisville ( ,  or ) is a प्रमुख नगर और the largest नगर in the u.S. राज्य of केंटकी और the  county seat of Jefferson County .
Since 2003 , the city  's सीमायें have महरूम साथ those of the काउंटी क्युकी  of a city-county merger .
The city 's total  संचित जनसांख्यिकी at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी थी 741,096 ( louisville 's संतुलन कुल , 602,011 , excludes semi-autonomous कस्बों  and is the population listed in most sources and national rankings ) .
As of 2010 , the Louisville metropolitan area  ( एमएसए ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,307,647 रैंकिंग 42nd nationally  .
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12 surrounding counties , eight in  केंटकी और चार in दक्षिणी इंडियाना ( देखिए भूगोल  below ) .
The Louisville  संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , having a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,451,564 , शामिल the एमएसए , hardin काउंटी और larue  County in Kentucky , and Scott County , Indiana .
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century , Louisville  आज is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the स्थान of the केंटकी डर्बी , the पहला of तीन  annual thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown .
A  ठेठ प्रायोगिक सेटअप  for an aldol reaction .
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C ) the  तापमान of जिससे is होने monitored by a तापयुग्म  ( the wire on the left ) .
A cooling bath , in laboratory chemistry ( often but not always organic chemistry ) practice , is a  द्रव मिश्रण जिससे is प्रयुक्त to maintain कम temperatures , typically between  13 °C and −196 °C .
These low temperatures are used to collect liquids after distillation , to remove solvents using a  रोटरी evaporator , or to perform a रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया नीचे रूम तापमान ( देखिए : गतिज कंट्रोल  ) .
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen , water , or even air ) — but most commonly the term refers to ( b ) a mixture of 3  components : ( 1 ) a कूलिंग एजेंट ( ऐसे as शुष्क बर्फ or जल बर्फ ) ; ( b ) a द्रव 'कैरीr ' ( ऐसे as द्रव जल , एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल , एसीटोन , इत्यादि . ) , जिससे हस्तांतरण ऊष्मा between the नहाना और the पोत ; ; और ( c ) an योगात्मक to गुमसुम the melting-point of the solid/liquid  system .
( A familiar example  of इस is the उपयोग of an ice/rock-salt मिश्रण to फ्रीज  ice cream .
The phase-change of ice  into द्रव जल requires उर्जा , 'pulling ' ऊष्मा इससे  the system .
Adding salt lowers the temp at  जिससे इस happens , अर्थ अधिक उर्जा रै to be अवशोषित  from the environment in order to melt the ice .
इस effectively makes the बर्फ 'colder ' — it जरूर 'pull  ' more heat from its environment to become liquid . )
Eating disorders are  शर्तें पारिभाषित by असामान्य खाने आदतें कि may involve either अपर्याप्त  or excessive food intake to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health .
Bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa are  the सबसे आम विशिष्ट फ़ॉर्म in the संयुक्त किंगडम .
Other types of eating disorders  शामिल binge खाने विकार और खाने विकार नहीं वरना  specified .
Bulimia nervosa is a  विकार characterized by binge खाने  and purging .
Purging  can शामिल self-induce उल्टी , over-exercising , और the उपयोग of diuretics  , enemas , and laxatives .
एनोरेक्सिया नर्वोज़ा is characterized by चरम खाना प्रतिबंध  to the point of self-starvation and excessive weight loss .
Though primarily thought of as affecting females ( an estimated 5–10  लाख होने प्रभावित in the u.K. ) , खाने विकार affect males as खूब  .
An estimated 10 – 15 % of people with  खाने विकार हैं males ( गोर्गान , 1999  ) .
( an estimated 1  लाख u.K. males होने प्रभावित  ) .
Although  खाने विकार हैं increasing सब over the संसार among दोनो मेन और महिलाओं , वहीँ is प्रमाण to सुझाएँ कि it is महिलाओं in the पश्चिमी संसार जो हैं at the उच्चतम रिस्क of विकासशील  them and the degree of westernization increases the risk .
nearly हाफ of सब अमेरिकी personally जान किसी  with an eating disorder .
The skill to comprehend the central processes of appetite has increased  tremendously चूंकि लेप्टिन थी खोजा , और the कौशल to observe the कृत्यों  of the brain as well .
Interactions between motivational  , homeostatic और self-regulatory कंट्रोल प्रक्रियाओं हैं शामिल in खाने आचरण  , which is a key component in eating disorders .
The precise cause of eating disorders is  नहीं entirely समझा , लकिन वहीँ is प्रमाण कि it may be linked  to other medical conditions and situations .
सांस्कृतिक idealization of thinness और youthfulness have contributed  to eating disorders affecting diverse populations .
One study showed that girls with ADHD have a  वृहद मौका of getting an खाने विकार than those नहीं  affected by ADHD .
Another study suggested that women with PTSD ,  विशेषकर due to sexually सम्बन्धित आघात , हैं अधिक संभावित to  develop anorexia nervosa .
One study showed that  फोस्टर लड़कियों हैं अधिक संभावित to develop bulimia  nervosa .
Some  सोचो कि पीर दबाव और idealized body-types देखी in the मीडिया हैं  also a significant factor .
Some research show that for certain  लोगों वहीँ हैं जेनेटिक कारण क्यों वे may be prone to विकासशील  an eating disorder .
हाल अध्ययन have मिला प्रमाण a सहसंबंध between मरीजों साथ bulimia  nervosa and substance use disorders .
In addition , anxiety  विकार और व्यक्तित्व विकार हैं आम आवृत्ति साथ क्लाइंट of  eating disorders .
While proper treatment can be highly  प्रभावी लिये अनेक कष्ट इससे विशिष्ट प्रकार of खाने विकार , the consequences of खाने विकार can be कठोर  , including death ( whether from direct medical effects of disturbed eating habits or from comorbid conditions such as suicidal thinking ) .
Slavery in the United States existed from the  जल्दी सालो of the औपनिवेशिक काल ; it थी firmly स्थापित by the समय the संयुक्त राज्य  sought independence from Great Britain in 1776 .
However , by 1804 , all states north of the Mason and Dixon  लकीर था either abolished गुलामी outright or passed कानून लिये the क्रमिक  abolition of slavery .
In 1787 Congress prohibited  गुलामी in the उत्तरपश्चिम territory  .
But slavery gained new life in the South with  the कपास उद्योग बाद 1800 , और विस्तारित into the दक्षिणपश्चिम  .
The nation was  polarized into स्लेव और फ़्री राज्य साथ the mason-dixon लकीर , जिससे अलग पेन्सिलवेनिया  and Maryland .
The United States and  ग्रेट ब्रिटेन दोनो निषिद्ध the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्लेव व्यापार in 1808 , लकिन the घरेलू व्यापार , साथ बिक्री to the गहन दक्षिण , विस्तारित dramatically  , and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade .
Before the 1840s , the  दक्षिण थी vigorously defending गुलामी और इसके विस्तार into  the territories .
In the  उत्तर कुछ abolitionists denounced it as गुनाहगार , और numerous anti-slavery  forces rejected it as detrimental to the rights of free men .
After failed compromises and  अब्राहम lincoln 's चुनाव , in 1861 ग्यारह स्लेव राज्य broke दूर to रूप the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका  , leading to the American Civil War .
the संघीय सरकारी in 1862 बना  abolition of slavery a war goal .
In  जनवरी 1863 अध्यक्ष lincoln freed स्लेव in the confederacy  through the Emancipation Proclamation .
After the war , the Thirteenth Amendment ,  प्रभावी दिसम्बर 1865 , abolished गुलामी throughout the संपूर्ण संयुक्त राज्य , सहित the  Border states and the Indian territories .
इससे the 16th to the 19th सदियां , an अनुमानित 12 लाख africans यहूद shipped  as slaves to the Americas .
See Slavery  in the americas .
The great majority went to the sugar  बागानों of the वेस्ट इंडीज or ब्राज़ील , जहाँ मृत्यु थी ऊँची  .
About 645,000 were  brought to कया is अभी the संयुक्त राज्य  .
By the 1860  संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी , the स्लेव जनसांख्यिकी in the अमरीकी दक्षिण  had grown to four million .
Of all 1,515,605 families in the 15 slave states , nearly  400,000 आयोजित स्लेव ( roughly एक in चार ) , amounting to  8 % of all American families .
While some slaves worked as house servants and urban artisans , the great majority worked on plantations or large farms , cultivating  lucrative नकदी फसलों , ऐसे as राइस , तम्बाकू , शुगर और , बाद 1800 , chiefly  cotton .
By 1860 most  स्लेव यहूद आयोजित in the गहन दक्षिण , जहाँ वे परोसा in work-gangs ;  two-thirds worked in cotton .
In small  परिचालन , वे worked साथ  their owners .
in विशाल बागानों वे यहूद निर्देशित  by white paid overseers .
Under  the प्रणाली कि became chattel गुलामी ( स्वामित्व of a इंसान होने , और of his/her वंशजों ) , a जातिगत तत्व थी आधारभूत :  slaves were blacks of African descent and owned , almost universally , by whites of European descent .
In the 17th century ,  वर्जिनिया , followed by अन्य दक्षिणी colonies , enacted विधि कि children of स्लेव माताओं यहूद born  into slavery .
Slaves could gain freedom only by running away ( which  थी मुश्किल और illegal to do ) , or by manumission by स्वामी , जिससे थी regulated by राज्य ,  and became increasingly difficult or prohibited .
In the earliest era of chattel  गुलामी , the colonies भी व्यवस्थित कार्य by a प्रणाली of बंधुआ मजदूर ज्ञात  as indentured servitude .
This typically lasted for several years for both poor  europeans और africans alike , to अदा बंद the लागत of हस्तांतरण to the colonies  .
They contracted for such  इंतजाम क्युकी of ग़रीब economies in उनके  home countries .
Between 1680  और 1700 , as कम europeans migrated to the colonies , planters began to आयात  more Africans as slaves .
Recognizing the importance of slavery , the House of Burgesses in Virginia enacted a new slave code  in 1705 ; it संयुक्त a किस्में of विधान और added नई प्रावधानों enforcing श्वेत सर्वोच्चता in the  law .
schematic क्रॉस खण्ड of भाग of पत्ता , जाइलम दिखाया  as red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem is one  of the दो प्रकार of हस्तांतरण ऊतक in vascular पौधे ( फ्लोएम  is the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ) ,  अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक is लकडी , हालांकि it is मिला throughout  the plant .
Its basic function is to  हस्तांतरण जल , लकिन it भी transports कुछ nutrients through  the plant .
This clock representation shows some of the  प्रमुख इकाई of geological समय और निर्णायक कार्यक्रम of धरती इतिहास  .
The Hadean eon represents  the समय पहले चट्टान रिकार्ड of जीवन on धरती ; इसके अपर boundary is अभी  regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion years ago ) .
अन्य subdivisions प्रतिबिंबित the एवोल्यूशन of जीवन ; the archean और proterozoic हैं दोनो eons , the palaeozoic ,  Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon .
The two million year  quaternary काल , the समय of recognizable इंसानो , is too छोटी to  be visible at this scale .
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time , and is used by geologists ,  paleontologists , और अन्य धरती वैज्ञानिकों to describe the समय और संबंध between कार्यक्रम कि have occurred throughout  Earth 's history .
The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees with the dates  और नामकरण नियत forth by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय आयोग on स्तरिकी मानक रंग कोड of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय आयोग  on Stratigraphy .
Evidence from radiometric dating  indicates कि the धरती is परिचय 4.54 अरब  years old .
The geology or deep time of Earth 's  पास्ट रै महरूम व्यवस्थित into विभिन्न इकाई according to कार्यक्रम जिससे took  place in each period .
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited by changes  in the संयोजन of strata जिससे correspond to उन्हें , indicating प्रमुख geological or paleontological कार्यक्रम , ऐसे as द्रव्यमान extinctions  .
For  उदाहरण , the boundary between the cretaceous काल और the paleogene काल is पारिभाषित by the cretaceous–paleogene  extinction event , which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life .
पुरानी समय spans जिससे predate the विश्वसनीय चट्टान रिकार्ड  ( before the Proterozoic Eon ) are defined by absolute age .
the ti-82 is a graphing परिपथ  made by Texas Instruments .
The TI-82 was designed in  1993 as a stripped bas , अधिक उपयोक्ता दोस्ताना संस्करण of the ti-85 , और as a बदलना  for the TI-81 .
it थी the सीधा पूर्ववर्ती  of the TI-83 .
It  साझा साथ the ti-85 a 6 mhz zilog  Z80 microprocessor .
Like the TI-81 , the TI-82 features a 96x64  पिक्सेल प्रदर्शक , और the कोर विशेषता नियत of the ti-81 साथ अनेक नई सुविधाएँ  .
the डाल of वर्ण of  The King of Fighters XI .
The King  of सेनानी लड़ खेल श्रेणी , उत्पादित by snk playmore , शामिल a चौड़ी  cast of characters , some of which are taken from other SNK games .
The story takes place in a fictional  ब्रह्मांड in जिससे an सालाना श्रेणी of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 लड़  tournaments are held .
The first  खेल in the श्रेणी introduces the आरंभिक प्रमुख अक्षर of the श्रेणी , kyo kusanagi , a  young Japanese fighter who is the heir to a powerful group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities .
Kyo fights against the Kusanagi clan 's enemies , his  प्रतिद्वंद्वी iori yagami , और the परमेश्वर orochi और इसके इंसान अनुसरणकर्ता  , among others .
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights , while The King of Fighters '99 introduces a new story arc ,  घूमती around k ' , a यंग man जो seeks to नष्ट the रहस्यमय nests संगठन क्युकी वे kidnapped उसे at an जल्दी आयु और stripped उसे of उसके पास्ट यादें , so कि वे could फ़ोर्स उसे to be a सेनानी अंतर्गत उनके  control .
In  the किंग of सेनानी 2003 , a नई अक्षर नामित राख crimson enters the टूर्नामेंट , to चोरी the शक्तियां  of the clans who sealed the Orochi in the past for an unknown reason .
A new group of antagonists , known as Those From the Past , also appears  in the श्रेणी ; वे want to obtain orochi 's शक्ति लिये the purpose of giving it to उनके अनजान निपुण  .
The plot and the characters came  इससे the yamata no orochi लेजेंड .
There are also several characters  in the खेल कि हैं parodies or homages to  several popular anime , manga , and films .
Merchandise based on the characters has also  महरूम released , सहित कार्रवाई आंकड़े और keychains  .
the वर्ण have garnered तारीफ़ इससे अनेक वीडियो खेल publications  for the quality of their designs and movesets .
Comments focused on the lack of  सुधार in कुछ of the वर्ण , लकिन added कि the रोस्टर is greatly  diverse .
Whale Wars is a weekly American documentary-style reality television series  कि premiered on नवम्बर 7 , 2008 on the एनिमल ग्रह केबल  channel .
the कार्यक्रम फ़ॉलो पॉल वाटसन , संस्थापक of the समुद्र गड़रिये संरक्षण समाज , as he और the क्रू  aboard their various vessels harass Japanese whalers off the coast of Antarctica .
On January 5 , 2013 , Animal  ग्रह नवीनीकृत the श्रेणी लिये a छठे  season .
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia  harpyja ) is a neotropical प्रजाति of  eagle .
It is sometimes known as the American  harpy त्रिभुज to फर्क it इससे the पापुआई त्रिभुज जिससे is sometimes ज्ञात as the नई गिनी harpy  Eagle or Papuan Harpy Eagle .
It is the largest and most  शक्तिशाली रैप्टर मिला in the americas , और among the largest extant  species of eagles in the world .
It usually inhabits tropical  lowland rainforests in the अपर ( emergent ) canopy परत  .
विनाश of इसके प्राकृतिक आवास रै देखी it vanish इससे अनेक भाग of इसके पूर्व दायरा , और it is nearly  extirpated in Central America .
Biological classification , or scientific classification in biology  , is a विधि of वैज्ञानिक taxonomy प्रयुक्त to समूह और categorize जीवों into समूह ऐसे as genus  or species .
These groups are  ज्ञात as taxa ( एकवचन  : taxon ) .
Modern biological classification has its root in the work  of carolus लीनियस , जो grouped प्रजाति according to साझा शारीरिक विशेषताएँ  .
These groupings  have चूंकि महरूम संशोधित to improve संगति साथ the darwinian  principle of common descent .
With  the परिचय of the cladistic विधि in the लेट 20th सदी , phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे जीवों हैं grouped  based purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness , ignoring morphological similarity , has become common in some areas of biology .
Molecular phylogenetics , which uses DNA sequences  as आंकड़ा , रै भी चलित अनेक हाल revisions और is संभावित to continue  doing so .
biological वर्गीकरण belongs to the विज्ञान  of biological systematics .
Lennon  's हस्ताक्षर
John Winston Ono Lennon , ( born John  विंस्टन लेनन ; 9 अक्तूबर 1940 – 8 दिसम्बर 1980 ) थी an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार , सिंगर और songwriter जो रोज़ to विश्वव्यापी कीर्ति as a संस्थापक सदस्य  of the Beatles , one of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music .
With Paul  mccartney , he formed एक of the सबसे मनाये songwriting  partnerships of the 20th century .
Born and raised in Liverpool  , as a किशोरावस्था लेनन became शामिल in the skiffle craze ; उसके पहला बैंड  , the Quarrymen , evolved into the Beatles in 1960 .
As the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade , Lennon embarked on a solo career that produced  the critically acclaimed एल्बम जॉन lennon/plastic ओनो बैंड और imagine , और iconic गीतों ऐसे as `` दे सलाम a मौका ``  and `` Imagine `` .
After his marriage  to योको ओनो in 1969 , he बदला उसके नाम  to John Ono Lennon .
Lennon  disengaged खुद इससे the म्यूज़िक कारोबार in 1975 to devote समय to उठाने उसके शिशु बेटे  Sean , but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the new album Double Fantasy .
He was  murdered तीन सप्ताह बाद  its release .
Lennon revealed a rebellious nature and  acerbic wit in उसके म्यूज़िक , लिखने , drawings , on फिल्मी और in साक्षात्कार  .
Controversial through his political and peace activism , he moved to New  यॉर्क नगर in 1971 , जहाँ उसके आलोचना of the वियतनाम युद्ध resulted in a lengthy attempt by रिचर्ड निक्सन 's प्रशासन to निर्वासन उसे , जबकि कुछ of उसके  songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement .
As of 2012 , Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 million units , and as writer , co-writer or  यजमान , he is जिम्मेदार लिये 25 number-one singles on the us hot 100 चार्ट  .
In 2002 , a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest Britons  voted उसे आठवीं , और in 2008 , रोलिंग स्टोन क्रमित उसे the fifth-greatest सिंगर of  all time .
He was posthumously inducted into the Songwriters  हॉल of कीर्ति in 1987 और into the चट्टान और  Roll Hall of Fame in 1994 .
Statue of  rip वैन winkle in irvington , नई यॉर्क , नहीं  far from `` Sunnyside `` , the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van  winkle '' is a छोटी स्टोरी by अमरीकी लेखक वॉशिंगटन इरविंग प्रकाशित in 1819 , as खूब as the नाम of the स्टोरी  's fictional protagonist .
लिखा जबकि इरविंग थी जीना in बर्मिंघम , इंग्लैण्ड  , it was part of a collection entitled The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon .
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill Mountains  , इरविंग बाद admitted , `` जब i लिखा the स्टोरी , i था never महरूम on the catskills  . ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have  been set .
This page  तभी शामिल the प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार जीती by विभिन्न  artists .
This does not include the  विभिन्न खास पुरस्कार कि हैं प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences ऐसे as आजीवन उपलब्धि  Awards , Trustees Awards , Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however does include other  non-performance सम्बन्धित grammys ( ज्ञात as the शिल्प & उत्पादन फ़ील्ड ) कि may have महरूम प्रस्तुत  to the artist ( s ) .
Pee-wee Herman is a  कॉमिक fictional अक्षर निर्मित और portrayed by अमरीकी  comedian Paul Reubens .
He is best known for his two television  श्रेणी और फिल्मी श्रेणी दौरान the 1980s  .
The  childlike pee-wee herman अक्षर विकसित as a स्टेज अधिनियम कि जल्दी  led to an HBO special in 1981 .
As the stage performance gained  further लोकप्रियता , reubens took the अक्षर to गति चित्र साथ pee-wee 's बिग एडवेंचर in  1985 , toning down the adult innuendo for the appeal of children .
This paved the way for Pee-wee 's  playhouse , an एमी पुरस्कार जीतना children 's श्रेणी कि भागा on  CBS from 1986-1991 .
Another  फिल्मी , बिग शीर्ष pee-wee  , was released in 1988 .
Due to  ऋणात्मक मीडिया ध्यान following a कांड in 1991 , reubens decided to shelve उसके alter अहंकार दौरान  the 1990s , and then gradually resurrected it during the following decade .
It was at that time that Reubens  addressed योजनाएँ to लिखें a नई pee-wee फिल्मी , pee-wee 's playhouse :  The Movie .
In June 2007 , Reubens appeared as  pee-wee herman लिये the पहला समय चूंकि 1991 at स्पाइक tv 's यारों  ' Choice Awards .
That '70s Show is an American  टेलीविज़न काल sitcom कि centers on the जीवनदान of a समूह of teenage मित्रों जीना in the fictional suburban कस्बा  of Point Place , Wisconsin , from May 17 , 1976 , to December 31 , 1979 .
It debuted on the Fox television  संजाल , पहला airing on अगस्त 23 , 1998 , कार्यशील लिये आठ लगातार सीज़न , और concluding साथ the 200th एपीसोड on may  18 , 2006 .
The main teenage cast  सदस्यों यहूद topher अनुग्रह , mila kunis , एश्टन कूचर , डैनी  Masterson , Laura Prepon , and Wilmer Valderrama .
The main adult cast  सदस्यों यहूद डेबरा jo rupp , kurtwood स्मिथ , डॉन स्टार्क और , दौरान the  first three seasons , Tanya Roberts .
Kansas ( ) is a  u.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the midwestern संयुक्त  States .
It is named after the Kansas River which flows  through it , जिससे in फेरे थी नामित बाद the कंस देशी अमरीकी जनजाति , जिससे inhabited the क्षेत्रफल  .
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often said to mean ``  लोगों of the हवा '' or `` लोगों of the दक्षिण हवा , '' हालांकि इस थी संभवतः नहीं the पद 's असली अर्थ  .
Residents  of कान्सास हैं पुकारा `` kansans  . ''
For thousands of years what is now Kansas  थी घर to numerous और विविध देशी अमरीकी  tribes .
Tribes in the Eastern part of the state  generally जिया in गांवों साथ the नदी घाटियों  .
Tribes  in the पश्चिमी भाग of the राज्य यहूद सेमi- nomadic और hunted  large herds of bison .
Kansas was first settled by European  अमेरिकी in the 1830s , लकिन the pace of उपनिवेश त्वरित in the 1850s , in the midst of  political wars over the slavery issue .
When  officially खोली to उपनिवेश by the u.S. सरकारी in 1854 , abolitionist free-staters इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड और pro-slavery settlers इससे neighboring मिसौरी rushed  to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state .
Thus , the area was a hotbed of violence and chaos in its early days as these  शक्तियां collided , और थी ज्ञात as bleeding कान्सास  .
The abolitionists eventually  prevailed और on जनवरी 29 , 1861 , कान्सास डाला the  Union as a free state .
After  the सिविल युद्ध , the जनसांख्यिकी of कान्सास grew rapidly , जब लहरें of आप्रवासियों turned  the prairie into farmland .
Today ,  कान्सास is एक of the सबसे उत्पादक agricultural राज्य , producing ऊँची yields of गेहूं  , sorghum and sunflowers .
Kansas is the 15th most extensive and  the 33rd सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य  .
Psychology is an  अकादमिक और लागू अनुशासन कि involves the  scientific study of mental functions and behaviors .
Psychology has the immediate goal of understanding individuals and groups by both  establishing सामान्य सिद्धान्त और researching विशिष्ट मामले , और by अनेक खाते  it ultimately aims to benefit society .
In this field , a professional or  शोधकर्ता is पुकारा a मनोवैज्ञानिक और can be वर्गीकृत as a सोशल , behavioral  , or cognitive scientist .
Psychologists  attempt to समझे the भूमिका of दिमागी कृत्यों in व्यक्तिगत और सोशल बर्ताव , जबकि भी exploring the physiological और neurobiological  processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors .
Psychologists explore concepts such as  बोध , संज्ञान , ध्यान , जज्बात , phenomenology , प्रेरणा , दिमाग कामकाज  , personality , behavior , and interpersonal relationships .
psychologists of विविध धारियाँ भी consider  the unconscious mind .
psychologists employ अनुभवजन्य विधि to infer causal और correlational संबंध  between psychosocial variables .
In addition , or in opposition , to employing empirical  और निगमनात्मक विधि , some—especially नैदानिक और counseling psychologists—at टाइम्स rely upon सांकेतिक  interpretation and other inductive techniques .
Psychology has been described as a  `` हब विज्ञान '' , साथ मनोवैज्ञानिक निष्कर्षों linking to शोध और perspectives इससे the सोशल sciences  , natural sciences , medicine , and the humanities , such as philosophy .
जबकि मनोवैज्ञानिक ज्ञान is प्रायः लागू to the मूल्यांकन और उपचार of दिमागी स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं , it is भी  directed towards understanding and solving problems in many different spheres of human activity .
The majority of  psychologists हैं शामिल in कुछ दयालु of therapeutic भूमिका , practicing in नैदानिक , counseling  , or school settings .
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes  और बर्ताव , और typically कार्य in विश्वविद्यालयों मनोविज्ञान विभाग or सिखा in अन्य अकादमिक जमावट ( e.g. , चिकित्सा  schools , hospitals ) .
Some are  employed in औद्योगिक और organizational जमावट , or in अन्य क्षेत्रों ऐसे as इंसान विकास और वृद्धावस्था , खेल , स्वास्थ्य , और  the media , as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law .
Thomas Jefferson ( April 13 , 1743 ( April 2 , 1743 O.S. ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was  an अमरीकी founding पिता , the प्रिंसिपल लेखक of the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता ( 1776 ) और the तीसरा अध्यक्ष of the  United States ( 1801–1809 ) .
At the beginning of the American Revolution , he  परोसा in the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस , representing वर्जिनिया और तब परोसा as a wartime राज्यपाल  of Virginia ( 1779–1781 ) .
Just after the war ended , from  mid-1784 जेफरसन परोसा as a राजनयिक , stationed in पेरिस .
In  may 1785 , he became the संयुक्त राज्य मंत्री  to France .
Jefferson was the first  संयुक्त राज्य सचिव of राज्य ( 1790–1793 ) सेवारत अंतर्गत अध्यक्ष  George Washington .
With his close friend James Madison he organized the  democratic-republican पार्टी , और subsequently resigned इससे वॉशिंगटन 's कैबिनेट  .
Elected Vice President in 1796 , when he came  in दूसरी to जॉन एडम्स of the federalists , जेफरसन opposed एडम्स और साथ मैडिसन secretly लिखा the केंटकी और  Virginia Resolutions , which attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts .
Elected president in what Jefferson called the  क्रान्ति of 1800 , he oversaw the खरीदें of the विशाल louisiana territory इससे फ़्रांस ( 1803 ) , और भेजा the लुईस और क्लार्क expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to  explore the new west .
His second term was beset with troubles at home , such as the  विफल देशद्रोह विचारण of उसके पूर्व वाइस अध्यक्ष  Aaron Burr .
With  escalating ट्रबल साथ ब्रिटेन जो थी चुनौतीपूर्ण अमरीकी neutrality और threatening शिपिंग at समुद्र , he आजमाया आर्थिक warfare साथ उसके  embargo laws which only damaged American trade .
In 1803 , President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian tribal  हटाना और relocation to the louisiana territory वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी , in अनुक्रम to खोलें  lands for eventual American settlers .
A leader in the Enlightenment , Jefferson was a polymath  जो spoke पाँच भाषाएं धड़ल्ले और थी deeply दिलचस्पी in विज्ञान , आविष्कार , वास्तुकला , धर्म और दर्शनशास्त्र ,  interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency .
He designed his own large  mansion on a 5,000 एकड़ वृक्षारोपण निकट charlottesville , वर्जिनिया ,  which he named Monticello .
While not a notable orator ,  जेफरसन थी a skilled लेखक और corresponded साथ अनेक influential लोगों in अमेरिका और यूरोपीय throughout  his adult life .
Though Jefferson owned many slaves , he opposed  the संस्था सब उसके जीवन और नतीजतन treated और took परवाह of उन्हें बहुत खूब और अपेक्षित उन्हें to कार्य no अधिक than  free farmers .
Since  1802 इतिहासकारों और अन्य have महरूम विभाजित over the विवाद of whether जेफरसन  was the father of one or more children belonging to Sally Hemings , a slave at Monticello . ''
इतिहासकारों हैं भी in असहमति साथ कैसा much जेफरसन थी  committed to the anti-slavery cause .
In  1807 , अध्यक्ष जेफरसन हस्ताक्षरित into विधि a विधेयक कि बैन the importation of  slaves into the United States .
After Martha Jefferson , his wife of eleven years , died in 1782 ,  जेफरसन remained a विधुर लिये the बाकी of उसके जीवन ; उनके विवाह उत्पादित छह children , of जिसको दो बच to adulthood  .
Though Jefferson has been criticized by many  आधुनिक दिन विद्वानों over the समस्या of गुलामी , he remains रेटेड as एक of the  greatest U.S. presidents .
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written by Steven Van Zandt  , उत्पादित by वैन zandt और आर्थर बेकर और अंकित by कलाकारों संयुक्त विरूद्ध रंगभेद to convey विपक्ष to the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी नीति  of apartheid .
The primary means of that  विपक्ष is to घोषित कि सब the कलाकारों शामिल होता इंकार कोई और सब offers to perform at सूर्य नगर , a रिज़ॉर्ट जिससे थी स्तिथ in bantustan of bophuthatswana , एक of a क्रमांक of internationally अपरिचित  supposed `` independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population .
This page is a list of  वर्ण in the पुलिस अकादमी फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न  series .
विधेयक रसेल जीती 11 championships साथ  the Boston Celtics .
This is a list of  एनबीए खिलाड़ी साथ सबसे  championships won as a player .
The National Basketball Association (  एनबीए ) is a प्रमुख पेशेवर बास्केट लीग in  North America .
It was founded in 1946 as  the बास्केट संघ of अमेरिका  ( BAA ) .
The league adopted  इसके वर्तमान नाम at the प्रारंभ of the जब it मिलाया साथ the नेशनल  Basketball League ( NBL ) .
The NBA Finals is the championship series for the NBA and the  निष्कर्ष of the खेल 's postseason  .
The winning team of  the श्रेणी receives the लैरी o'brien चैंपियनशिप  Trophy .
Players from the winning team usually  प्राप्त चैंपियनशिप बजती इससे the टोली honoring  their contribution .
However , in some rare occasion , the  टीमों opted to दिया अन्य commemorative वस्तुएं , ऐसे as  wrist watches , instead of rings .
The number of championships won  by एनबीए सुपरस्टार is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a मापन of उनके विशालता  .
Boston  सेल्टिक्स बीच विधेयक रसेल holds the रिकार्ड लिये the सबसे एनबीए championships  won with 11 titles during his 13-year playing career .
He won his first  चैंपियनशिप साथ the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स in  his rookie year .
Afterwards , he went on to win  10 championships in the अगला 12 सालो , सहित आठ लगातार  championships from 1959 to 1966 .
He won the last two championships in  1968 और 1969 as player-coach  .
Russell 's teammate , Sam Jones , won 10  championships इससे 1959 to 1969 , the दूसरी सबसे in एनबीए इतिहास  .
Four Celtics  खिलाड़ी , tom heinsohn , K. C. जोन्स , satch सैंडर्स और  John Havlicek , won eight championships each .
Two other Celtics , Jim  loscutoff और फ़्रैंक रैमसे , जीती सात championships  each .
Four players ,  bob cousy , kareem abdul-jabbar , माइकल जॉर्डन और scottie pippen  , won six championships each .
Jordan and Pippen are  सदस्यों of the शिकागो bulls टोली जो जीती तीन लगातार championships  twice in the 1990s .
Robert Horry and John Salley are the  तभी खिलाड़ी to have जीती the championships  with three different teams .
Horry won seven  championships साथ the ह्यूस्टन rockets , the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स और the सैन अंतोनियो स्पर्स , जबकि salley जीती चार championships  with the Detroit Pistons , the Bulls and the Lakers .
Frank Saul and  स्टीव केर हैं the तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत दो championships साथ दो अलग  teams in consecutive seasons .
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers  in the 1950s , जबकि केर जीती लगातार championships साथ the bulls और the स्पर्स  in the 1990s,
Accuracy indicates proximity of measurement results to the true value ,  परिशुद्धता to the repeatability , or reproducibility  of the measurement
In the fields of science , engineering , industry , and statistics , the  सटीकता of a मापन प्रणाली is the उपाधि of निकटता of माप of a मात्रा to कि मात्रा 's वास्तविक (  true ) value .
The precision of a measurement system , also called reproducibility or  repeatability , is the उपाधि to जिससे दोहराया माप अंतर्गत अपरिवर्तित शर्तें  show the same results .
Although the two words  reproducibility और repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial उपयोग , वे हैं  deliberately contrasted in the context of the scientific method .
A measurement system can be accurate but not precise ,  precise लकिन नहीं सटीक , neither , or दोनो  .
For example ,  if an प्रयोग contains a व्यवस्थित गलती , तब increasing the नमूना आकार generally  increases precision but does not improve accuracy .
The result would be a  सतत yet inaccurate स्ट्रिंग of परिणाम इससे the flawed प्रयोग  .
Eliminating the systematic  गलती improves सटीकता लकिन करता नहीं बदलें परिशुद्धता  .
A  मापन प्रणाली is designated मान्य if it is दोनो  accurate and precise .
Related terms include bias (  non- यादृच्छिक or निर्देशित प्रभाव caused by a फ़ैक्टर or कारकों unrelated  to the independent variable ) and error ( random variability ) .
The terminology is also applied to indirect  measurements—that is , मान प्राप्त by a कम्प्यूटेशनल कार्यविधि इससे observed आंकड़ा  .
In addition to accuracy and precision ,  माप may भी have a मापन रेज़ोल्यूशन , जिससे is the smallest बदलें in the underlying शारीरिक मात्रा  that produces a response in the measurement .
In the case of full reproducibility , such as when rounding a number to a  representable फ्लोटिंग पाइंट क्रमांक , the शब्द परिशुद्धता रै a अर्थ नहीं सम्बन्धित to reproducibility  .
For example , in the  आईईईई 754-2008 मानक it अर्थात् the क्रमांक of बिट्स in the significand , so it is प्रयुक्त as a माप लिये the सापेक्ष  accuracy with which an arbitrary number can be represented .
Fuck in  इसके शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the  act of sexual intercourse .
It is an English word that  is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a profanity , either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier  .
The  उत्पत्ति of the शब्द  is obscure .
It is usually considered to be  पहला attested to around 1475 , लकिन it may be considerably  older .
In modern usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can  be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति of a संज्ञा , a क्रिया , an क्रियाशील or an क्रियाविशेषण  .
There are many common phrases which make use of the  शब्द , as खूब as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों incorporating  it , such as motherfucker .
Animated  , color-coded मैप प्रर्दशित the  various continents and regions .
Depending on the convention and model , some continents may be consolidated or  subdivided : लिये उदाहरण , यूरेशिया is सबसे प्रायः subdivided into यूरोपीय और एशिया ( रेड शेड्स ) , जबकि उत्तर और दक्षिण अमेरिका  are sometimes recognized as one American continent ( green shades ) .
A  महाद्वीप is एक of अनेक बहुत विशाल  landmasses on Earth .
They are generally identified by  सम्मेलन बल्कि than कोई सख्त मापदण्ड , साथ up to सात regions commonly regarded as continents—they हैं ( इससे largest in आकार to smallest ) : एशिया , अफ़्रीकी , उत्तर अमेरिका ,  South America , Antarctica , Europe , and Australia .
In geology , continents  हैं वर्णित by अर्थात् of tectonic  plates .
थाली विवर्तनिकी is the प्रक्रम और पढ़ाई of the गति , टक्कर और प्रभाग of महाद्वीपों ,  earlier known as continental drift .
Biker Boyz is a 2003  फिल्मी परिचय a समूह of भूमिगत मोटरसाइकिल  drag racers .
It stars Laurence  फिशबर्न , djimon hounsou , डेरेक ल्यूक , meagan शुभ , और larenz टेट  and is written and directed by Reggie Rock Bythewood .
It also features Lisa  bonet , ऑरलैंडो जोन्स , बच्चा चट्टान और वैनेसा घंटी calloway  .
For  the स्टील पैंथर सोंग , देखिए  Feel the Steel .
Community property is a marital property regime that  originated in सिविल विधि jurisdictions और is अभी भी मिला in कुछ आम  law jurisdictions .
The states of the United States  कि recognize जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी हैं primarily in the वेस्ट ; it थी inherited इससे मैक्सिको 's ganancial जातियाँ प्रणाली , जिससे itself थी inherited इससे स्पेनी विधि ( a रोमन -derived सिविल विधि प्रणाली  ) and ultimately from the Visigoths .
While under Spanish  नियम louisiana अपनाया the ganancial जातियाँ प्रणाली of acquests और  gains , which replaced the traditional French community of movables and acquests in its civil law system .
Map of the United States with community  प्रॉपर्टी राज्य highlighted in रेड  .
In addition to the highlighted  राज्य , अलास्का is a पृथक प्रॉपर्टी राज्य कि permits युगल to ऑप्ट into  a community property arrangement .
In a community property jurisdiction , most property  acquired दौरान the विवाह ( मगर लिये उपहार or inheritances ) —the जातियाँ , or communio bonorum—is स्वामित्व jointly by दोनो spouses  and is divided upon divorce , annulment or death .
Joint  स्वामित्व is automatically presumed by विधि in the अनुपस्थिति of विशिष्ट प्रमाण कि होता पाइंट to a contrary निष्कर्ष  for a particular piece of property .
Division of  जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी may लो प्लेस by मद , by splitting सब वस्तुएं or  by value .
In some jurisdictions , such as California , a 50/50 division of community  प्रॉपर्टी is सख्ती mandated by statute , अर्थ कि the फ़ोकस तब शिफ्ट to whether particular वस्तुएं हैं to be वर्गीकृत  as community or separate property .
In other  jurisdictions , ऐसे as टेक्सास , a तलाक अदालत may डिक्री an `` निष्पक्ष वितरण  `` of community property , which may result in an unequal division of such .
In  non-community प्रॉपर्टी राज्य प्रॉपर्टी may  be divided by equitable distribution .
Generally speaking , the property  कि प्रत्येक संगी brings into the विवाह or receives by तोहफा , bequest or मक्कारी दौरान विवाह is पुकारा  separate property ( i.e. , not community property ) .
देखिए प्रभाग of  property .
Division of  जातियाँ debts may नहीं be the वही as प्रभाग of जातियाँ  property .
For example , in California , community property is  जरूरी to be विभाजित `` बराबर '' जबकि जातियाँ कर्ज़ is जरूरी  to be divided `` equitably '' .
प्रॉपर्टी कि is स्वामित्व by एक जीवनसाथी पहले the विवाह is the पृथक प्रॉपर्टी of कि  spouse , unless the property is `` transmuted '' into community property .
The rules for  इस vary इससे क्षेत्राधिकार to  jurisdiction .
The Duke and Duchess of  कैम्ब्रिज हिलाता to the भीड  at The Mall shortly after the wedding .
The wedding of Prince  विलियम , ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज , और कैथरीन मिडलटन took  place on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London .
The groom , Prince William , Duke  of कैम्ब्रिज , is the ज्येष्ठ बेटे of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स , और is दूसरी in the लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to  the British Throne and the thrones of fifteen other Commonwealth realms .
The bride , Catherine  `` केट '' मिडलटन is the ज्येष्ठ of तीन children of माइकल और carole मिडलटन  of Bucklebury , Berkshire .
The Dean of Westminster , John Hall , presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams ,  conducted the विवाह ; रिचर्ड chartres , the बिशप of लंदन , preached the उपदेश ; और a पढना थी  given by the bride 's brother , James .
William 's best man was his  bhai , प्रिंस हैरी , जबकि the बहू 's सिस्टर , पिप्पा , थी नौकरानी of इज्ज़त  .
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and groom 's families , as  खूब as अनेक विदेशी रॉयल्स , राजनयिकों , और the युगल 's चुनी निजी  guests .
After the ceremony , the couple made the traditional  रूप on the बालकनी of बकिंघम राजमहल  .
As Prince  विलियम थी नहीं the वारिस apparent to the सिंहासन , the विवाह थी नहीं a पूरा राज्य अवसर  and many details were left to the couple to decide , such as much of the guest list of about 1,900 .
प्रिंस विलियम और केट मिडलटन  met in 2001 .
Their  सगाई on 20 अक्तूबर 2010 थी घोषित  on 16 November 2010 .
The build-up to the wedding  और the अवसर itself आकर्षित much मीडिया ध्यान , होने compared in अनेक तरीके साथ the 1981 विवाह of  William 's parents .
The occasion was a public holiday in the United Kingdom and featured  अनेक ceremonial पहलुओं , सहित उपयोग of the राज्य carriages  and roles for the Foot Guards and Household Cavalry .
कार्यक्रम यहूद आयोजित around the राष्ट्रमंडल to चिह्नित the विवाह ; संगठनों और होटल आयोजित कार्यक्रम आरपार कनाडा , over 5,000 गली पार्टियों यहूद आयोजित throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम , और एक लाख लोगों lined the रूट between  Westminster Abbey and Buckingham Palace .
The ceremony was  viewed सजीव by tens of लाखो अधिक around the संसार , सहित 72 लाख on the  YouTube Royal Channel .
In the United  किंगडम , टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस peaked at 26.3 लाख दर्शक , साथ a कुल of 36.7 लाख watching भाग  of the coverage .
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo  ; born नवम्बर 9 , 1980 ) is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न  personality , television host , fashion model , and actress .
Minnillo was also  नामित मिस टीन यूएसए in  1998 .
She has been a New York -based  correspondent लिये entertainment tonight और hosted कुल निवेदन सजीव  on MTV .
a हाथ ( मेड . / lat . : manus , pl . manūs ) is a prehensile , multi- fingered extremity  located at the end of an arm or forelimb of primates and humans , chimpanzees , monkeys , and lemurs .
A few other vertebrates such as  the कोआला ( जिससे रै दो opposable thumbs on प्रत्येक `` हाथ '' और फिंगरप्रिंट remarkably समान to इंसान फिंगरप्रिंट )  are often described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs .
हैंड्स हैं the प्रमुख structures लिये physically manipulating the पर्यावरण , प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो सकल मोटर कौशल ( ऐसे  as grasping a large object ) and fine motor skills ( such as picking up a small pebble ) .
The fingertips  contain कुछ of the densest क्षेत्रों of तंत्रिका endings on the देह , हैं the richest सोर्स of tactile प्रतिक्रिया ,  and have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands .
Like other paired organs ( eyes , feet , legs ) , each hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain hemisphere ,  so कि handedness , or the पसन्दीदा हाथ चुनाव लिये single-handed क्रियाएँ ऐसे as लिखने साथ a पेंसिल , reflects व्यक्तिगत दिमाग  functioning .
Some evolutionary anatomists use the  पद हाथ to refer to the appendage of अंक on the forelimb अधिक generally — लिये उदाहरण , in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of whether the तीन  digits of the bird hand involved the same homologous loss of two digits as in the dinosaur hand .
The human  हाथ रै 27 हड्डियों , नहीं सहित the sesamoid हड्डियों  which number varies between people .
14 of which are the phalanges  ( proximal , इंटरमीडिएट और distal  ) of the fingers .
The metacarpals are the bones  कि connects the उंगलियाँ और  the wrist .
प्रत्येक इंसान हाथ रै 5 metacarpals  and 8 carpal bones .
Too Cool was a professional wrestling tag team and former  गुट सबसे notably क्रियाशील in संसार कुश्ती federation/entertainment between 1998 और 2001 और लिये  a short time in 2004 .
मौलिक डिजिटल सचेतक क्लॉक  without a radio .
The mark in the top-left of the display  indicates कि the समय is 4:00pm  , not 4:00am .
A  1969 रेडियो सचेतक क्लॉक ( सोनी digimatic  8FC-59W ) with an early mechanical-digital display .
A digital clock is a type of clock that displays the time  डिजिटली , i.e . in numerals or अन्य प्रतीकों , as opposed to an एनालॉग क्लॉक , जहाँ the समय is indicated by the स्थितियाँ  of rotating hands .
डिजिटल घड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः संबद्ध साथ इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ड्राइव , लकिन the `` डिजिटल '' वर्णन refers  only to the display , not to the drive mechanism .
( Both analog and digital clocks can be driven either  mechanically or electronically , लकिन `` घटीयंत्र '' mechanisms साथ डिजिटल प्रदर्शक  are rare . )
The biggest digital  क्लॉक is the lichtzeitpegel ( `` लाइट समय स्तर '' ) on the टेलीविज़न मीनार rheinturm  Düsseldorf , Germany .
Family  guy निर्माता सेठ macfarlane भी provides the आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin , stewie griffin , ब्रायन  Griffin , and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features  पाँच प्रमुख आवाज़ अभिनेताओं , और numerous नियमित डाल और पुनरावर्ती अतिथि सितारों  .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex  borstein , सेठ ग्रीन , mila kunis ( जो replaced लेसी chabert बाद the पहला ऋतु ) और माइक हेनरी और अभी , the  new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West ,  जॉन G. ब्रेनन , निकोल सुलीवान और जेनिफर tilly , और repeat अतिथि सितारों शामिल फिलिस  Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast  सदस्यों provide आवाज़ें लिये अनेक  characters .
The voice actors , in  portraying the विभिन्न अक्षर personalities on the दिखाएँ , चित्रण प्रेरणा इससे  celebrities and pop culture .
Family Guy  वर्ण have महरूम निभाई by अधिक than एक कर्ता , बाद सदस्यों of the दिखाएँ बाएँ the श्रेणी or  had conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for  बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन और an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न उत्पादन , हालांकि no अन्य डाल सदस्य रै जीती an पुरस्कार लिये उनके कार्य on the  series .
The five sets of the board game Monopoly depicted here  दिखाएँ the एवोल्यूशन of the खेल 's कलाकृति और डिजाइन in  the United States from 1935–2005 .
The history of  the फलक खेल एकाधिकार can be traced वापस to the जल्दी  20th century .
The earliest known design was by the  अमरीकी , एलिज़ाबेथ magie , patented in 1904 लकिन मौजूदा as जल्दी as  1902 .
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to  illustrate an आर्थिक principle , namely the georgist अवधारणा of a  single land value tax .
A series of board  खेल यहूद विकसित इससे 1906 through the 1930s कि शामिल the खरीदे और  selling of land and the development of that land .
By  1934 , a फलक खेल था महरूम निर्मित much जैसे the संस्करण of एकाधिकार बेची by पार्कर भाइयो  and its related companies through the rest of the 20th century , and into the 21st .
अनेक लोगों , ज़्यादातर in the midwestern संयुक्त राज्य  and near the East Coast , contributed to the game 's design and evolution .
By the 1970s , the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ; it was printed in the game  's निर्देश लिये अनेक सालो , in a 1974 किताब devoted to एकाधिकार , और थी cited in a सामान्य किताब परिचय खिलौने भी as recently as 2007  .
Even a guide to family  खेल प्रकाशित लिये रीडर 's डाइजेस्ट in 2003 तभी दिया क्रेडिट to darrow और एलिज़ाबेथ magie , erroneously stating कि magie 's असली खेल थी निर्मित in the 1800s , और नहीं acknowledging कोई of  the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game , and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers .
Also in the 1970s , Professor Ralph Anspach , who had himself published a board game intended to  illustrate the सिद्धान्त of दोनो monopolies और विश्वास busting , लड़ा पार्कर भाइयो और इसके तब जनक कम्पनी , सामान्य मिलों , over  the trademarks of the Monopoly board game .
Through the  शोध of anspach और अन्य , much of the जल्दी इतिहास of the खेल  was `` rediscovered '' .
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady , author of the  1974 किताब the एकाधिकार किताब : रणनीति और tactics of the संसार 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल over the वास्तविक इतिहास  of the game on Barry Farber 's New York City talk show in 1975 .
Because of the lengthy court  प्रक्रम , सहित appeals , the विधिक औकात of पार्कर भाइयो ' trademarks  on the game was not settled until 1985 .
The game 's name remains a registered trademark of Parker Brothers ,  as do इसके विशिष्ट डिज़ाइन तत्व  .
At the conclusion of the court case , the game 's  लोगो और ग्राफिक डिज़ाइन तत्व became भाग of a larger एकाधिकार ब्रांड , licensed by पार्कर भाइयो ' जनक कंपनियाँ onto a किस्में  of items through the present day .
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game  's जल्दी इतिहास in the 1970s और 1980s , और अनेक किताबे और जर्नल आलेख on the विषय , हास्ब्रो ( पार्कर भाइयो ' वर्तमान जनक कम्पनी ) किया नहीं acknowledge कोई of the खेल 's  history before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012 .
Nor did Hasbro  acknowledge anyone अन्य than darrow in सामग्री प्रकाशित or प्रायोजित  by them , at least as recently as 2006 .
International tournaments , first held in the early 1970s , continue to the  उपस्थित , साथ the अगला संसार चैंपियनशिप संभावित अनुसूचित  for 2013 .
Starting in 1985 , a new  पीढी of spin-off फलक खेल और कार्ड खेल appeared on  both sides of the Atlantic Ocean .
In  1989 , the पहला of अनेक वीडियो खेल  and computer game editions was published .
Since 1994 , many official variants  of the खेल , आधारित on स्थितियाँ अन्य than अटलांटिक नगर , नई जर्सी ( the आधिकारिक u.S. सेटिंग ) or लंदन ( the आधिकारिक राष्ट्रमंडल सेटिंग  , excepting Canada ) , have been published by Hasbro or its licensees .
In 2008 , Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of  the gameplay of the मानक u.s . संस्करण of the खेल to मैच the uk संस्करण , हालांकि the u.S. मानक संस्करण maintains the अटलांटिक नगर  property names .
Hasbro also modified the  आधिकारिक लोगो to दे the `` mr . एकाधिकार '' अक्षर a 3-d computer-generated dekh , जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम अपनाया  by licensees USAopoly , Winning Moves and Winning Solutions .
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed Die , introduced in 2006 's  एकाधिकार : the आचमन संस्करण by जीतना चालें खेल , in संस्करण उत्पादित सीधे by हास्ब्रो ( ऐसे as the 2009 चैंपियनशिप  Edition ) .
In baseball , a  बलिदान मक्खी is a batted बॉल कि  satisfies four criteria:
There are fewer than  दो outs जब the बॉल is hit  .
The ball is hit to the  आउटफील्ड ( मेला or बेईमानी ) , or to infield  foul territory .
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield , or foul territory )  catches the बॉल on the मक्खी ( alternatively if the बैटर होता have महरूम आउट if नहीं लिये an गलती or if the outfielder बूंदें the बॉल और another  runner is put out ) .
A runner who is  already on आधार स्कोर on the खेल  .
It is called a ``  बलिदान '' मक्खी क्युकी the बैटर presumably intends to कारण a teammate  to score a run , while sacrificing his own ability to do so .
Minnesota  ( ) is a u.S. राज्य स्तिथ in the midwestern  United States .
Minnesota was carved out of the eastern half of the Minnesota  territory और admitted to the संघ as the 32nd राज्य  on May 11 , 1858 .
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '' , the  राज्य 's नाम आता इससे a डकोटा शब्द लिये `` sky-tinted जल ''  .
Those waters ,  साथ साथ वनों , पार्क , और wilderness क्षेत्रों , प्रस्ताव निवासियों और पर्यटकों a किस्में  of outdoor recreational opportunities .
Minnesota is the 12th  सबसे extensive और the 21st सबसे populous  of the U.S. states .
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area ( known as the `` Twin Cities '' ) , the center of  परिवहन , कारोबार , उद्योग , शिक्षा , सरकारी और घर to an internationally ज्ञात  arts community .
The remainder of the state consists of western prairies now given over to intensive  कृषि ; पतझड़ी वनों in the southeast , अभी साफ , farmed और settled ; और the कम आबादी उत्तर  Woods , used for mining , forestry , and recreation .
Minnesota is known for its relatively mixed social and political orientations  , और रै a ऊँची रेट of नागरिक भागीदारी और वोटर turnout .
Minnesota  बाँधने among the healthiest राज्य , और रै a अत्यधिक  literate population .
The large majority  of निवासियों हैं of scandinavian और जर्मनी  descent .
The state is known as a  बीच of scandinavian अमरीकी संस्कृति  .
जातीय विविधता रै increased  in recent decades .
Substantial influxes of Asian  , अफ़्रीकी , और लैटिन अमरीकी आप्रवासियों have joined the वंशजों of यूरोपीय settlers और the असली देशी  American inhabitants .
Grants are  non-repayable निधि by एक पार्टी ( ग्रान्ट makers ) , प्रायः a सरकारी विभाग , निगम ,  foundation or trust , to a , often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity , educational institution , business or an individual .
In order to receive a grant , some form of `` Grant Writing ''  प्रायः referred to as either a प्रस्ताव  or an application is usually required .
Most  अनुदान हैं बना to निधि a विशिष्ट प्रोजेक्ट और आवश्यकता कुछ स्तर of अनुपालन  and reporting .
The grant  लिखने प्रक्रम involves an आवेदक submitting a प्रस्ताव ( or सबमिशन ) to a संभावित  funder , either on the applicant 's own initiative or in response to a Request for Proposal from the funder .
Other  अनुदान can be दिए to individuals , ऐसे as पीड़ितों of प्राकृतिक आपदाओं or individuals  who seek to open a small business .
sometimes ग्रान्ट makers आवश्यकता ग्रान्ट जरुरतमंदों to have कुछ रूप of tax-exempt  status , be a registered nonprofit organization or a local government .
For  उदाहरण , tiered funding लिये a फ्रीवे हैं बहुत विशाल अनुदान negotiated  at government policy level .
However smaller grants may be provided by  a सरकारी एजेंसी ( e.g . नगरपालिका सरकारी ) .
project-related funding involving सरकारें , कारोबार , समुदायों , और individuals is प्रायः arranged by अनुप्रयोग  either in writing or online .
naturally occurring कोबाल्ट ( co ) is रचित of 1 stable समस्थानिक , 59co . 28 radioisotopes have महरूम characterized साथ the सबसे stable होने 60co साथ a half-life of 5.2714 सालो , 57co साथ a half-life  of 271.79 days , 56Co with a half-life of 77.27 days , and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days .
All of the remaining radioactive  isotopes have half-lives कि हैं कम than 18 घंटों और the बहुमत of ये have half-lives  that are less than 1 second .
This element also has 11 meta  राज्य , सब of जिससे have half-lives कम than 15  minutes .
The isotopes  of कोबाल्ट दायरा in परमाणु वज़न  from 47Co to 75Co .
The primary decay mode for isotopes with  परमाणु द्रव्यमान ईकाई मान कम than कि of the सबसे abundant stable समस्थानिक , 59co , is इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर और the प्राथमिक विधि of क्षय लिये those of वृहद  than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay .
The primary decay products before  59co हैं आयरन isotopes और the प्राथमिक उत्पाद बाद हैं  nickel isotopes .
Standard  परमाणु द्रव्यमान : 58.933195  ( 5 ) u
Who  स्थानांतरित my चीज  ?
An Amazing Way to Deal  साथ बदलें in अपना कार्य और in अपना जीवन , प्रकाशित in 1998 , is a प्रेरक किताब by स्पेंसर जॉनसन लिखा in the स्टाइल  of a parable or business fable .
It describes change in one 's work and life , and four typical reactions to  कहा बदलें by दो चूहे और दो `` littlepeople '' , दौरान उनके हंट लिये चीज  .
A New York Times  कारोबार बेस्टसेलर चूंकि रिलीज , जो  Moved My Cheese ?
remained on the सूची लिये लगभग पाँच सालो और खर्च over 200 सप्ताह  on Publishers Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list .
It has sold more than 26 million copies worldwide in 37 languages and remains  to be एक of the best-selling कारोबार किताबे  .
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev  ( – सितंबर 11 , 1971 ) led the सोवियत संघ दौरान  part of the Cold War .
He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964  , और as अध्यक्ष of the परिषद of मंत्रियों , or प्रीमियर , इससे 1958 to 1964 .
Khrushchev was responsible for  the आंशिक de-stalinization of the सोवियत संघ , लिये बैकिंग the प्रगति of the जल्दी सोवियत स्पेस कार्यक्रम  , and for several relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy .
Khrushchev  's पार्टी सहयोगियों removed उसे इससे शक्ति in 1964 , replacing उसे साथ लियोनिद  Brezhnev as First Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier .
Khrushchev was born in the Russian village of Kalinovka  in 1894 , बंद to the present-day किनारा between  Russia and Ukraine .
He was employed as a metalworker  in उसके युवावस्था , और दौरान the रूसी सिविल युद्ध थी a राजनैतिक  commissar .
With the help of  lazar kaganovich , he worked उसके रास्ता up the सोवियत पदानुक्रम  .
He supported Joseph Stalin  's purges , और स्वीकृत हज़ारों of रखवाले  .
In 1939 , Stalin  भेजा उसे to govern युक्त , और he जारी the purges  there .
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the Great Patriotic  युद्ध ( पूर्वी सामने of संसार युद्ध ii ) , khrushchev थी again a commissar , सेवारत as  an intermediary between Stalin and his generals .
Khrushchev  थी उपस्थित at the खूनी रक्षा of stalingrad , a फैक्ट he took ग्रेट  pride in throughout his life .
बाद the युद्ध , he लौटे to युक्त पहले होने  recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers .
In the power struggle triggered by Stalin 's death in 1953  , khrushchev , बाद अनेक सालो , उभरा विजयी  .
On February 25 , 1956 , at  the 20th पार्टी कॉंग्रेस , he वितरित the `` रहस्य वाक , '' denouncing स्टालिन 's purges और ushering in a  less repressive era in the Soviet Union .
His domestic  नीतियों , aimed at bettering the जीवनदान of ordinary नागरिकों , यहूद प्रायः अप्रभावी ,  especially in the area of agriculture .
Hoping eventually to rely on missiles for  नेशनल रक्षा , khrushchev ordered प्रमुख कटौती in  conventional forces .
Despite the cuts , Khrushchev 's rule saw the tensest  सालो of the ठंडा युद्ध , culminating in the क्यूबन  Missile Crisis .
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic , particularly by his emerging rivals ,  जो चुपचाप रोज़ in शक्ति और अपदस्थ उसे in अक्तूबर 1964  .
He did not suffer the deadly fate of some previous losers of  सोवियत शक्ति struggles , लकिन थी pensioned बंद साथ an अपार्टमेंट in मास्को और a dacha in the  countryside .
His lengthy memoirs were  smuggled to the वेस्ट और प्रकाशित in भाग  in 1970 .
khrushchev died in 1971 of दिल  disease .
Upper  जठरांत्र ( gi ) bleeding refers to hemorrhage in the  upper gastrointestinal tract .
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI  bleeding is the स्नायु of treitz , जिससे connects the चौथी portion of the duodenum to the diaphragm निकट the  splenic flexure of the colon .
Upper GI bleeds  हैं माना चिकित्सा emergencies , और आवश्यकता  admission to hospital for urgent diagnosis and management .
Due  to अग्रिम in medications और endoscopy , अपर  GI hemorrhage is now usually treated without surgery .
World population  estimates इससे 1800 to 2100 , आधारित on un 2010 projections ( रेड , नारंगी  , green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ) .
Actual  अंकित जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े हैं in  blue .
according to the उच्चतम अनुमान , the संसार जनसांख्यिकी may वृद्धि to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according  to the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world  जनसांख्यिकी is the कुल क्रमांक of  living humans on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated to number billion by the  संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ( uscb ) .
The USCB estimates that the world  जनसांख्यिकी exceeded 7 अरब on कूच  12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United  राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि , it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर  31 , 2011 .
The  संसार जनसांख्यिकी रै अनुभवी निरन्तर विकास चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट  Famine and the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly  दौरान the 1950s , और लिये a longer काल दौरान the 1960s और 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 %  in 1963 , और था अस्वीकृत to  1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138  लाख , और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख , जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल , और हैं अपेक्षित  to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in  जनसांख्यिकी in the निकट भविष्य ( लकिन a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ) , साथ the  global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth ,  stagnation , or भी overall मनाही in the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी by 2150  .
Some  विश्लेषकों have questioned the स्थिरता of further संसार जनसांख्यिकी विकास , citing the growing pressures  on the environment , global food supplies , and energy resources .
Philips Lumileds Lighting Company  is the निर्माता of a चौड़ी दायरा of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting  diodes ( LEDs ) .
It is  a अभी a fully स्वामित्व प्रभाग of  Philips Lighting .
Knuckle mnemonic for the  क्रमांक of दिनों in प्रत्येक माह of the gregorian पंचांग  .
Each projecting  knuckle represents a 31-day  month .
A mnemonic ( ,  साथ a मूक `` m '' ) , or mnemonic यंत्र , is कोई सीखना तकनीक  that aids information retention .
mnemonics उद्देश्य to अनुवाद सूचना into a रूप कि  the human brain can retain better than its original form .
Even the  प्रक्रम of applying इस परिवर्तन might already सहायता the ट्रांसफ़र of सूचना  to long-term memory .
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in  auditory रूप , ऐसे as छोटी कविताएं , acronyms , or यादगार वाक्यांश , लकिन mnemonics can भी be लिये अन्य  types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms .
Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily  remembers स्थानिक , निजी , आश्चर्यजनक , शारीरिक , यौन , humorous , or वरना 'relatable ' सूचना  , rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information .
The  शब्द mnemonic is निकला इससे the प्राचीन यूनानी शब्द μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ) , अर्थ `` of मेमोरी ''  and is related to Mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ) , the name of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology .
Both of these words are derived from μνήμη  ( mnēmē ) , `` स्मरण , मेमोरी ''  .
Mnemonics in antiquity  यहूद सबसे प्रायः माना in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of कया is आज ज्ञात  as the Art of memory .
Ancient Greeks  और romans विशिष्ट between दो प्रकार of मेमोरी : the  'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory .
The former is inborn , and is the one that everyone  उपयोग automatically और बगैर सोच  .
The artificial memory in contrast has to be trained and developed  through the सीखना और practicing of a किस्में of mnemonic तकनीकों  .
mnemonic प्रणालियों हैं खास तकनीकों or रणनीति consciously प्रयुक्त to improve मेमोरी , it  helps employ information already stored in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task .
President Bush signing the No Child Left  पीछे अधिनियम at हैमिल्टन h.s . in हैमिल्टन , ओहियो  .
The No Child Left Behind  अधिनियम of 2001 ( nclb ) is a संयुक्त राज्य अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस कि is a reauthorization of the elementary और द्वितीयक शिक्षा अधिनियम , जिससे  included Title I , the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students .
NCLB supports standards-based  शिक्षा सुधार आधारित on the आधार कि सेटिंग ऊँची मानकों और establishing measurable लक्ष्य  can improve individual outcomes in education .
the अधिनियम requires राज्य to  develop assessments in basic skills .
States must give these assessments to all students at select  ग्रेड स्तर in अनुक्रम to प्राप्त  federal school funding .
The Act does not assert a  नेशनल उपलब्धि मानक ; मानकों हैं नियत by प्रत्येक  individual state .
NCLB expanded the federal  भूमिका in पब्लिक शिक्षा through सालाना परीक्षण , सालाना अकादमिक प्रगति , रपट ताश , टीचर योग्यता  , and funding changes .
The bill  passed in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस  with bipartisan support .
Dodge B Series  यूटिलिटी circa 1950 , चलित by अल्बर्ट  Namatjira
A  पिकअप ट्रक or pick-up , प्रायः बस referred to as a पिकअप , is a लाइट मोटर गाडी साथ  an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory  निर्मित , एकीकृत bed , as खूब as लिये coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों , प्रायः आधारित on a निजी car chassis , लकिन भी प्रायः on a खास समर्पित chassi  for such use .
Some countries have  उनके अपना शर्तें समान to पिकअप , ऐसे as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड ,  or bakkie in South Africa .
Large pickup trucks  हैं somewhat विरल in यूरोपीय , जहाँ वैन और लाइट lorries हैं commonly  used for similar roles .
This 15th-century  चित्रण of शारलेमेन और पोप एड्रियन i shows a well-bred मध्यकालीन घोड़ा  with arched neck , refined head and elegant gait .
घोड़े in the मध्य आयु differed in आकार , निर्माण और  breed from the modern horse , and were , on average , smaller .
They were also more central to society than their  आधुनिक counterparts , होने अनिवार्य लिये युद्ध , कृषि  , and transport .
Consequently , specific types of  घोड़ा विकसित , अनेक of जिससे have no आधुनिक समतुल्य  .
While an understanding of modern horse breeds and equestrianism is vital for any  विश्लेषण of the मध्यकालीन घोड़ा , शोधकर्ताओं भी need to consider वृत्तचित्र ( दोनो लिखा  and pictorial ) and archaeological evidence .
Horses in the Middle  आयु यहूद rarely differentiated by नस्ल  , but rather by use .
This led them to be  वर्णित , लिये उदाहरण , as `` chargers `` ( युद्ध घोड़े ) , `` palfreys `` ( सवारी घोड़े ) ,  cart horses or packhorses .
Reference is also given to their  प्लेस of उत्पत्ति , ऐसे as `` स्पेनी घोड़े , '' लकिन whether इस referred to एक नस्ल  or several is unknown .
Another difficulty arising during any study  of मध्यकालीन दस्तावेज़ or साहित्य is the लचीलापन of the मध्यकालीन भाषाएं , जहाँ अनेक शब्द can be प्रयुक्त लिये एक बात ( or , conversely , अनेक  objects are referred to by one word ) .
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even within one document ) ,  और जहाँ एक एपिक may बोलो disparagingly of a rouncey , another गुणगान इसके कौशल और swiftness  .
Significant technological advances in equestrian equipment , often introduced  इससे अन्य संस्कृतियों , अनुमत लिये significant परिवर्तन in दोनो warfare और कृषि  .
In particular , improved designs for  the solid-treed काठी as खूब as the आगमन of the रकाब , नाल और घोड़ा कॉलर यहूद  significant advances in medieval society .
Consequently , the assumptions and theories developed by historians are not  निर्णायक , और बहस स्टिल rages on अनेक मुद्दे , ऐसे as the प्रजनन or आकार of  the horse , and a number of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject .
The Music Man is a  musical साथ किताब , म्यूज़िक , और गीत by मेरेडिथ willson , आधारित on a स्टोरी by  Willson and Franklin Lacey .
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill , who poses as a boys ' band  आयोजक और नेता और बिकता बैंड यंत्र और वर्दी to भोली townsfolk पहले  skipping town with the cash .
In River City , Iowa , prim librarian and piano  टीचर marian paroo sees through उसे , लकिन जब हिल helps उसके younger bhai overcome उसके भय  of social interactions due to his lisp , Marian begins to fall in love with Harold .
Harold , in  फेरे गिरना लिये marian , risks  being caught to win her .
In 1957 , the show became a hit on Broadway , winning five Tony Awards ,  सहित बेहतरीन musical , और कार्यशील लिये 1,375 प्रदर्शन  .
The cast album won the first  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये `` बेहतरीन असली डाल एल्बम '' और थी क्रमांक  one on the Billboard charts for 245 weeks .
The show 's  कामयाबी led to revivals और a लोकप्रिय 1962 फिल्मी अनुकूलन  and a 2003 television remake .
It frequently is  उत्पादित by दोनो पेशेवर और amateur थिएटर कंपनियाँ  .
निरीक्षक 's  wheel
A  निरीक्षक 's व्हील , भी पुकारा a clickwheel , hodometer , waywiser , trundle व्हील , measuring व्हील ,  or perambulator is a device for measuring distance .
Largest  non-polar रेगिस्तान
Sand dunes in the  rub ' al खली ( `` खाली क्वार्टर ''  ) of Saudi Arabia .
makhtesh रेमन , negev मरुस्थल  , Israel
A desert is a landscape or region of land that is very dry because of low rainfall amounts ( precipitation ) ,  प्रायः रै छोटी कवरेज by पौधे , और in जिससे स्ट्रीम शुष्क up जबतक वे हैं supplied by जल इससे बाहर क्षेत्रों  .
रेगिस्तान can भी be वर्णित as क्षेत्रों जहाँ अधिक जल is खोया by evapotranspiration  than falls as precipitation .
Desert plants must  have खास adaptations to जीवित  with this little water .
Deserts generally  प्राप्त कम than 25 cm of बरसात  ( precipitation ) each year .
Semideserts or  steppes हैं regions जिससे प्राप्त between  and .
In the Köppen climate classification system  , रेगिस्तान हैं classed as bwh ( hot मरुस्थल ) or bwk  ( temperate desert ) .
In the Thornthwaite climate  वर्गीकरण प्रणाली , रेगिस्तान होता be वर्गीकृत as arid megathermal  climates .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war  केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on 28 जुलाई 1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर  1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until  the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध ii in 1939 , और the पहला संसार युद्ध or संसार  War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple  entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी , austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन , as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय  against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more  राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और  the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel  , सहित 60 लाख europeans , यहूद mobilised in एक of  the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were  मारे , largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार  without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in  संसार इतिहास , subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन , ऐसे as revolutions  in many of the nations involved .
One of the  long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the  foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of  austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered  a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed  over the पिछला दशकों यहूद  invoked .
भीतर सप्ताह , the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और , via  their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians  fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी  for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans  invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज on the रास्ता to फ़्रांस , providing  a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After  the जर्मनी कूच on पेरिस थी brought to a halt—the so-called चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a  static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the  रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध the austro-hungarians , लकिन  was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the  युद्ध , खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस , मेसोपोटामिया  and the Sinai .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया गई to युद्ध in 1915 और रोमानिया  in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed  in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति  in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series  of कामयाब offensives और अमरीकी शक्तियां began प्रवेश the trenches  .
Germany , which had its own trouble with  क्रांतिकारियों , सहमत to an armistice on 11 नवम्बर  1918 .
The  युद्ध ended in विजय  for the Allies .
Events on  the घर fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन  to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial  powers—the जर्मनी , रूसी , austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased to मौजूद  .
The successor states  of the पूर्व दो खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory , जबकि the latter  two were dismantled entirely .
the मैप of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into  several smaller states .
The  लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the  hope of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires  , the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing  to World War II .
`` Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979  सोंग originally लिखा by रॉबर्ट जोखिम और बना प्रसिद्ध by सिंगर cyndi lauper  .
It was the first major single released by Lauper as a  सोलो कलाकार और the lead-off सिंगल इससे उसके डेब्यू एल्बम वो 's so असामान्य  .
lauper’s संस्करण gained मान्यता as a feminist  anthem and promoted by an award-winning video .
It has been covered on  either an एल्बम or in सजीव कॉन्सर्ट by  over 30 other artists .
The single was Lauper 's breakthrough hit , reaching  # 2 on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 और बनने a विश्वव्यापी hit throughout लेट  1983 and early 1984 .
It remains one of Lauper 's  हस्ताक्षर गीतों और थी a widely लोकप्रिय सोंग दौरान the  era of its release , the 1980s .
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '' , `` Rolling Stone : `` The 100 Top  म्यूज़िक वीडियो '' '' और the `` vh1 : 100 महानतम वीडियो '' सूचियाँ क्रमित the सोंग at # 22 , # 39 और # 45 , क्रमशः  .
The song received a Grammy Award  नामांकन लिये रिकार्ड of the साल और बेहतरीन मादा  Pop Vocal Performance .
View of  defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति  and placement .
Defibrillation is a  आम उपचार लिये life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , और pulseless  ventricular tachycardia .
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of विद्युत उर्जा  to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator .
This  depolarizes a नाजुक द्रव्यमान of the दिल मांसपेशी , terminates the dysrhythmia , और allows सामान्य sinus लय  to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial node of the heart .
Defibrillators can be  बाह्य , transvenous , or implanted , depending on the प्रकार  of device used or needed .
Some external units , known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ) , automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms , meaning that lay  responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ to उपयोग उन्हें सफलतापूर्वक साथ छोटी , or in कुछ मामले no प्रशिक्षण at सब  .
The Cato Institute is an  अमरीकी libertarian सोचो टैंक headquartered in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
It was founded as the  चार्ल्स koch न्यास in 1974 by मरे rothbard , ed क्रेन और चार्ल्स koch , अध्यक्ष of the फलक और मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी  of the conglomerate Koch Industries , Inc. .
In July 1976 ,  the नाम थी बदला to the केटो संस्थान  .
According to the 2011 Global Go To  सोचो टैंक अनुक्रमणिका , केटो is the 6th सबसे influential us आधारित सोचो टैंक , रैंकिंग 3rd in  Economic Policy and 2nd in Social Policy .
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the understanding of public policies based on the principles of  सीमित सरकारी , फ़्री बाज़ार , व्यक्तिगत  liberty , and peace .
The Institute will use the most effective means to originate , advocate ,  प्रचार , और disseminate लागू नीति प्रस्ताव कि बनाएँ फ़्री , खोलें , और सिविल समाजों in the संयुक्त राज्य और  throughout the world . ''
Cato scholars were critical of  जार्ज W. बुश 's रिपब्लिकन प्रशासन ( 2001–2009 ) on अनेक मुद्दे , सहित the इराकी युद्ध , सिविल लिबर्टीज , शिक्षा , कृषि  , energy policy , and excessive government spending .
On other issues , they supported Bush administration  पहलों , सबसे notably स्वास्थ्य परवाह , सोशल सुरक्षा , वैश्विक वार्मिंग , कर नीति , और  immigration .
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election , Cato  विद्वानों criticized दोनो major-party उम्मीदवार , जॉन मैक्केन और बराक  Obama .
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his inauguration , such as fiscal stimulus ,  healthcare सुधार , विदेशी नीति , और the युद्ध on दवाएँ , जबकि supporting उसके stance on the repeal of do n't पूछो , do n't बताना और उदार आव्रजन नीति  .
ड्रैकुला is an 1897 गोथिक हॉरर अनोखा by आयरिश  author Bram Stoker .
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count  ड्रैकुला , the अनोखा tells the स्टोरी of ड्रैकुला 's attempt to relocate इससे transylvania to इंग्लैण्ड , और the बैटल between ड्रैकुला और a छोटी समूह of मेन और महिलाओं  led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing .
ड्रैकुला रै महरूम आबंटित to अनेक साहित्यिक जाति सहित पिशाच साहित्य , हॉरर fiction  , the gothic novel and invasion literature .
The novel touches on themes such as the role of women in Victorian  संस्कृति , यौन प्रथाओं , आव्रजन , उपनिवेशवाद , और post-colonialism  .
हालांकि स्टोकर किया नहीं इफ़तेरा the पिशाच , he पारिभाषित  its modern form , and the novel has spawned numerous theatrical , film and television interpretations .
Quidditch is a  प्रतिस्पर्धी खेल in the wizarding संसार of the हैरी कुम्हार ब्रह्मांड , और is इससे  the series of children 's novels and movies .
It is an  अत्यधिक अशिष्ट लकिन बहुत लोकप्रिय semi-contact खेल , निभाई  by wizards and witches .
Matches are played between two teams of seven players riding flying broomsticks ,  using चार गेंदें और छह elevated ring-shaped लक्ष्य , तीन on प्रत्येक पक्ष of the quidditch पिच  ( field ) .
In the Harry Potter universe , Quidditch holds a fervent  following समान to the स्थिति कि संघ फ़ुटबॉल holds  as a globally popular sport .
The sport is monumental throughout  the wizarding संसार .
Harry plays an important position for his house team at Hogwarts : he is  the seeker और becomes the कप्तान in उसके छठे साल वहीँ .
Regional and  अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिताओं हैं उल्लेखित throughout  the series .
In Goblet of Fire , Quidditch at Hogwarts is cancelled for the  tri-wizard टूर्नामेंट , लकिन हैरी और the weasleys attend  the Quidditch World Cup .
In addition , Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard  टूर्नामेंट ) , to कैप्चर a उड़ती कुंजी in पारस 's स्टोन , और on दो कुंजी अवसरों in deathly hallows — getting थाम of ravenclaw 's diadem , और दौरान the फाइनल लड़ो  with Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air .
Harry Potter  रै स्वामित्व दो broomsticks , the nimbus 2000 और the firebolt , दोनो of जिससे  are destroyed by the series ' end .
The game has been adopted in  the रियल संसार in the रूप of मगलू  Quidditch .
The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the federal  सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य consisting of दो घरों : the निम्नतर हाउस ज्ञात as the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  and the upper house known as the Senate .
कॉंग्रेस meets in the कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Both  प्रतिनिधि और सीनेटरों हैं चुनी through  direct election .
Congress has a total of 535 voting members :  435 सदस्यों in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और 100 सदस्यों  in the Senate .
Members of the  हाउस of प्रतिनिधि serve two-year शर्तें representing  the people of a district .
Congressional districts are apportioned to states by  जनसांख्यिकी using the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी परिणाम , प्रत्येक राज्य in the संघ having at तनिक  one representative in the House of Representatives .
Regardless of population , each of the  50 राज्य रै दो सीनेटरों ; the 100 सीनेटरों प्रत्येक serve  a six-year term .
The  शर्तें हैं लड़खड़ाते so प्रत्येक दो  years approximately one-third of the Senate is up for election .
Each staggered  समूह of one-third of the सीनेटरों  are called 'classes ' .
No state of the United  राज्य रै दो सीनेटरों इससे the वही क्लास  .
Most incumbents seek  re-election , और उनके ऐतिहासिक likelihood of जीतना subsequent चुनावों exceeds 90  percent .
In August 2012 , a Gallup poll reported that  congress’s स्वीकृति दरजा amongst अमेरिकी थी at 10 % , मिलान a 38-year कम पहुँचे  in November 2011 .
`` A Little More Country Than That '' is the  शीर्षक of a सोंग लिखा by जॉय + रोरी 's रोरी ली feek , व्यान varble , और डॉन poythress , और अंकित  by American country artist Easton Corbin .
It was released in August  2009 as कोर्बिन 's डेब्यू सिंगल और is शामिल on उसके self-titled  debut album .
In April 2010 , the song  पहुँचे क्रमांक एक on the देश म्यूज़िक चार्ट , बनाना कोर्बिन the पहला पुरूष सोलो कलाकार in  seven years to send a debut single to Number One .
It has been  certified सुनहरा by the riaa  .
The BlackBerry is a line of wireless handheld devices and  सेवाएं designed और marketed by शोध in गति सीमित ( रिम ) ऑपरेटिंग  as BlackBerry .
The first BlackBerry device , an email  पेजर , थी released in 1999 ; the सबसे हाल ब्लैकबेरी डिवाइस , the z10 और q10 , यहूद घोषित on जनवरी 30  , 2013 .
The user  इंटरफ़ेस varies by मॉडल ; सबसे विशेषता a शारीरिक क्वर्टी कुंजीपटल  , while newer generations have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard .
A BlackBerry can shoot  वीडियो , लो फ़ोटो , खेल म्यूज़िक , और perform ऑनलाइन कृत्यों  such as web-browsing and emailing .
They can also send and receive  धक्का ईमेल और तत्काल संदेश जबकि maintaining a ऊँची स्तर of सुरक्षा through on-device संदेश एन्क्रिप्शन , और हैं designed to फलन as  personal digital assistants .
ब्लैकबेरी डिवाइस support a विशाल किस्में of तत्काल messaging सुविधाएँ , साथ the  most popular being the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger service .
The BlackBerry  playbook is a टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर offered  by the company .
The 100 millionth  ब्लैकबेरी स्मार्टफोन थी shipped in जून क्वार्टर of 2010 और the 200 millionth स्मार्टफोन  was shipped in September quarter of 2012 .
BlackBerry  खाते लिये 3 % of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री विश्वव्यापी in 2011 , बनाना इसके निर्माता the छठे सबसे लोकप्रिय यंत्र  maker ( 25 % of mobile device sales are smartphones ) .
The consumer BlackBerry Internet Service is available in 91 countries  विश्वव्यापी on over 500 मोबाईल सेवा ऑपरेटर using विभिन्न  mobile technologies .
As of September  2012 , वहीँ यहूद अस्सी लाख सदस्य विश्वव्यापी to ब्लैकबेरी  .
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America had the highest  penetrations of ब्लैकबेरी स्मार्टफ़ोन विश्वव्यापी , साथ up to परिचय 45 प्रति cent in the प्रदेश having a  RIM device .
BlackBerry , iPhone , Android , and  खिड़कियाँ फोन हैं माना the चार प्रमुख स्मार्टफोन  brands .
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry  '' in the संयुक्त राज्य , जिससे alludes to इसके excessive उपयोग by इसके स्वामी और is a सन्दर्भ to the addictiveness  of crack cocaine .
Use of the term CrackBerry  became so फैली कि in नवम्बर 2006 वेबस्टर 's नई संसार कॉलेज शब्दकोष नामित `` crackberry  '' the `` New Word of the Year . ''
an उदाहरण of a माँग वक्र  shifting .
The shift from D1 To  d2 अर्थात् an बढ़ाएँ in माँग साथ consequences  for the other variables
In economics , the demand curve is  the आलेख depicting the संबंध between the दाम of a निश्चित कमोडिटी और the राशि of it कि उपभोक्ता हैं willing और समर्थ  to purchase at that given price .
It is a graphic  प्रतिनिधित्व of a माँग अनुसूची  .
The demand curve for all consumers  साथ फ़ॉलो इससे the माँग वक्र of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत उपभोक्ता : the व्यक्तिगत मांगे at प्रत्येक दाम हैं added साथ  .
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets , and are often combined with supply curves to estimate the equilibrium price ( the price at which sellers together are willing to sell  the वही राशि as खरीदार साथ हैं willing to ख़रीदे , भी ज्ञात as मार्केट clearing दाम ) और the संतुलन मात्रा ( the राशि of कि शुभ or सेवा कि होगा be उत्पादित और खरीदा बगैर surplus/excess सप्लाई or shortage/excess  demand ) of that market .
In a monopolistic  मार्केट , the माँग वक्र facing the monopolist is बस  the market demand curve .
historia
by nikolaos gysis  ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia , meaning `` inquiry , knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an  छतरियाँ पद कि relates to पास्ट कार्यक्रम as खूब as the डिस्कवरी , संग्रहण , संगठन , और प्रस्तुतीकरण  of information about these events .
The term includes cosmic , geologic , and organic  इतिहास , लकिन is प्रायः generically implied  to mean human history .
Scholars who  लिखें परिचय इतिहास हैं पुकारा इतिहासकारों  .
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a  कथा to जाँचें और analyse a अनुक्रम of पास्ट कार्यक्रम , और objectively determine the पैटर्न of कारण और  effect that determine them .
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and its usefulness by  discussing the पढ़ाई of the अनुशासन as an समाप्त in itself और as a रास्ता of providing `` परिप्रेक्ष्य '' on the समस्याएं of  the present .
Stories common to a particular culture , but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding King  आर्थर ) हैं प्रायः वर्गीकृत as सांस्कृतिक विरासत or महापुरूष , क्युकी वे do नहीं support the `` disinterested छानबीन '' जरूरी of the अनुशासन of  history .
Events occurring prior to  लिखा रिकार्ड हैं माना प्रागितिहास  .
Herodotus , a 5th century B.C . Greek historian is considered  भीतर the पश्चिमी परंपरा to be the `` पिता of इतिहास '' , और , साथ साथ उसके समकालीन thucydides , helped रूप the  foundations for the modern study of human history .
Their work  continues to be पढ़ा आज और the divide between the culture-focused हिरोडोटस और the military-focused thucydides remains a पाइंट of contention  or approach in modern historical writing .
In the Eastern tradition , a state chronicle the  वसन्त और पतझड़ annals थी ज्ञात to be compiled इससे as जल्दी as 722 bce हालांकि तभी 2nd सदी bce ग्रन्थ  survived .
Ancient influences have helped spawn  रूपांतर interpretations of the प्रकृति of इतिहास जिससे have विकसित over the सदियां और continue to  change today .
The modern study of  इतिहास is wide-ranging , और शामिल the पढ़ाई of विशिष्ट regions और the पढ़ाई of निश्चित  topical or thematical elements of historical investigation .
Often history is taught as part of  प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शिक्षा , और the अकादमिक पढ़ाई of इतिहास is a प्रमुख अनुशासन  in University studies .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965  ) , born मैल्कम छोटी और भी ज्ञात as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( )  , was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist .
To his admirers , he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks , a  man जो indicted श्वेत अमेरिका in the harshest शर्तें लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध ब्लैक  Americans .
Detractors accused him of  उपदेश जातिवाद , ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता , और  violence .
He has been called  एक of the महानतम और सबसे influential अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी  in history .
Malcolm X 's father  died—killed by श्वेत supremacists , it थी rumored—when he थी यंग , और  at least one of his uncles was lynched .
When he was 13 , his mother was  लगाई in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल , और he थी लगाई in a श्रेणी  of foster homes .
In  1946 , at आयु 20 , he गई to थाना  for breaking and entering .
In prison , Malcolm X became a member of the Nation of  islam ; बाद उसके पैरोल in 1952 , he जल्दी रोज़ to become एक of इसके  leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group , but disillusionment with Nation of  islam सिर इलियास मुहम्मद led उसे to छोड़ the स्वदेश in कूच  1964 .
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East , he returned  to the संयुक्त राज्य , जहाँ he संस्थापित मुस्लिम मस्जिदे , inc. और the संगठन of afro-american एकता  .
in फ़रवरी 1965 , कम than a साल बाद leaving the स्वदेश of islam  , he was assassinated by three members of the group .
मैल्कम x 's expressed मान्यताओं बदला  substantially over time .
As a spokesman for  the स्वदेश of islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता और advocated विरह of ब्लैक और श्वेत अमेरिकी —in कंट्रास्ट  to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association  साथ it , `` i किया अनेक बाते as a [ ब्लैक ] मुस्लिम कि i 'm sorry लिये अभी .
I was a zombie then ... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni  मुस्लिम , he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ , he जारी to emphasize pan-africanism  , black self-determination , and self-defense .
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson , Jr. ( born March 28 , 1946 ) is  an अमरीकी बैंकर जो परोसा as the 74th संयुक्त राज्य सचिव of  the Treasury .
He had served as the  अध्यक्ष और मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी of गोल्डमैन sachs , और is अभी अध्यक्ष of the paulson संस्थान , जिससे he संस्थापित in 2011 to प्रचार चिरस्थायी आर्थिक विकास और a क्लीनर पर्यावरण  around the world , with an initial focus on the United States and China .
A virtual machine ( VM ) is a  तन्त्र implemented abstraction of the underlying हार्डवेयर , जिससे is प्रस्तुत  to the application layer of the system .
Virtual machines may be based on specifications of a  काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर or emulate the कंप्यूटर वास्तुकला और कृत्यों of a रियल संसार कंप्यूटर  .
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are  air-breathing arthropods कि have आठ टाँगे और chelicerae साथ  fangs that inject venom .
They are the largest order of arachnids and  रैंक सातवाँ in कुल प्रजाति विविधता among सब अन्य समूह of जीवों  .
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except for  अंटार्कटिक , और have become स्थापित in nearly प्रत्येक आवास साथ the एक्सेप्शन of एयर और समुद्र colonization .
As of 2008 , at least 43,678 spider species , and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists  ; however , वहीँ रै महरूम भ्रम भीतर the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as to कैसा सब ये परिवारों चाहिए be वर्गीकृत , as evidenced by the over 20  different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other  arthropods in कि the usual देह खण्ड हैं fused into दो tagmata , the cephalothorax और उदर , और joined by a छोटी , बेलनाकार  pedicel .
नापसंद कीट , मकड़ियों do नहीं  have antennae .
In all except the most  आदिम समूह , the mesothelae , मकड़ियों have the सबसे centralized बेचैन प्रणालियों of सब arthropods , as सब उनके ganglia हैं fused  into one mass in the cephalothorax .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have no  extensor मांसपेशियां in उनके limbs और बजाय extend उन्हें by हाइड्रोलिक  pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into spinnerets that  extrude रेशा इससे up to छह प्रकार of रेशा ग्रंथियों भीतर उनके उदर  .
Spider webs vary  widely in आकार , आकार और the राशि of स्टिकी  thread used .
It  अभी appears कि the सर्पिल orb वेब may be एक of the earliest फ़ॉर्म  , and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with  silk-producing spigots appeared in the devonian काल परिचय , लकिन ये पशु  apparently lacked spinnerets .
True spiders have been found in  carboniferous रॉक्स इससे , और हैं बहुत समान to the सबसे आदिम surviving अनुक्रम , the  Mesothelae .
The main  समूह of आधुनिक मकड़ियों , mygalomorphae और araneomorphae , पहला appeared in the triassic  period , before .
A herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi , was described in 2008 ,  लकिन सब अन्य ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी , ज़्यादातर preying on कीट और on अन्य मकड़ियों , हालांकि a few विशाल प्रजाति भी  take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to  कैप्चर शिकार : trapping it in स्टिकी webs , lassoing it साथ स्टिकी bolas , mimicking the  prey to avoid detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but the active hunters have acute  दृष्टि , और hunters of the genus portia दिखाएँ लक्षण of प्रज्ञा in उनके चुनाव of tactics और क्षमता to develop नई  ones .
मकड़ियों ' गुस्ताखी हैं too सीमित to लो solids , और वे liquidize उनके खाना by बाढ़ it साथ digestive एंजाइमों  and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps , as they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify  themselves by a किस्में of जटिल प्रेमालाप संस्कार to avoid होने खाया by  the females .
Males  of सबसे प्रजाति जीवित a few matings , सीमित मुख्यतः  by their short life spans .
महिलाओं बुनते रेशा egg-cases , प्रत्येक of  which may contain hundreds of eggs .
Females of many species care for their  यंग , लिये उदाहरण by carrying उन्हें around or by sharing  food with them .
A  अल्पसंख्यक of प्रजाति हैं सोशल , भवन सांप्रदायिक webs कि may  house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals .
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration , as in the widow  मकड़ियों , to co-operative शिकार और food-sharing  .
हालांकि सबसे मकड़ियों सजीव लिये at सबसे दो सालो , tarantulas और अन्य mygalomorph  spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity .
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans  , वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी researching the उपयोग of मकड़ी venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting  pesticides .
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness , strength and elasticity that is superior to that of  सिंथेटिक सामग्री , और मकड़ी रेशा जीनों have महरूम inserted into स्तनधारियों और पौधे to देखिए if ये can be  used as silk factories .
As a result of their wide range of behaviors , spiders have become common symbols in art and  mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of सब्र , क्रूरता और रचनात्मक शक्तियां  .
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13 ,  1960 ) is a fictional अक्षर और एक of the दो मादा लीड in the फॉक्स sitcom कि '70s दिखाएँ , appearing in  all eight seasons .
Portrayed  by लौरा prepon , डोना is the प्रेम ब्याज  to Eric Forman .
us काउंटी household मध्य  income 2009 .
Median US  household आय , 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly  प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी और निजी संस्थानों  .
Each household is  measured by the आय of प्रत्येक निवासी over the आयु  of 15 .
Income includes wages and  salaries , बेरोजगारी बीमे , विकलांगता भुगतान , चाइल्ड support भुगतान प्राप्त , नियमित rental रसीदें , as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार , निवेश  , or other kinds of income received routinely .
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' )  household आय था महरूम increasing लगभग प्रत्येक साल इससे 1945 to 1999 , it  has since been flat and even decreased recently .
u.S. मध्य household आय गिरी इससे $ 51,144  in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United States , meaning households  जीना on कम than $ 2 प्रति दिन पहले सरकारी लाभ , doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 लाख households in 2011 , सहित  2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do not have to be  सम्बन्धित to the सिर of the household लिये उनके आय to be माना भाग of the household 's आय  .
As  households tend to share a समान आर्थिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट , the उपयोग of household  income remains among the most widely accepted measures of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household income categories  , और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल or भी नामुमकिन  .
A registered agent , also known as a resident agent or statutory agent , in United  राज्य कारोबार विधि , is a कारोबार or व्यक्तिगत designated to प्राप्त सेवा of प्रक्रम ( sop ) जब a कारोबार एंटिटी is a पार्टी in a विधिक कार्रवाई ऐसे  as a lawsuit or summons .
The  पंजीकृत एजेंट 's पता may भी be जहाँ the राज्य होगा भेजें the कागजी  for the yearly renewal of the business entity 's charter .
The registered agent for a business entity may  be an व्यक्तिगत सदस्य of the कम्पनी , or ( अधिक प्रायः ) a तीसरा पार्टी , ऐसे as the संगठन 's वकील or a सेवा कम्पनी  .
Failure to  properly maintain a पंजीकृत एजेंट can affect  a company negatively .
दफ्तर लिये आपात  Management .
Office of  युद्ध सूचना युद्ध पोस्टर 1941 - 1945
`` Life , Liberty , and the  pursuit of सुख '' is a well-known phrase in the संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा  of Independence .
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with which all human beings  हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता लिये उनके सुरक्षा of जिससे वे संस्थान सरकारें  .
तलवारबाजी , is typically विभाजित into ओलम्पिक तलवारबाजी , शास्त्रीय  fencing and historical fencing , .
The sport of fencing ( commonly called  ओलम्पिक तलवारबाजी or प्रतिस्पर्धी तलवारबाजी ) is विभाजित into तीन हथियार श्रेणी  : foil , sabre and épée .
Classical fencing uses the  वही तीन हथियार , लकिन  approaches fencing as a martial art .
Competitive Fencing is one of five sports which has  महरूम प्रदर्शित at प्रत्येक एक of the आधुनिक ओलम्पिक खेल , the अन्य चार होने एथलेटिक्स , साइकिलिंग , तैराकी , और जिमनास्टिक्स  .
The  quadriceps femoris ( लैटिन लिये `` four-headed मांसपेशी of the femur `` ) , भी पुकारा बस the quadriceps , quadriceps extensor  , quads , is a large muscle group that includes the four prevailing muscles on the front of the thigh .
It is the great extensor muscle of the knee ,  forming a विशाल मांसल द्रव्यमान जिससे कवर the सामने और पहलू of  the femur .
The proper  लैटिन बहुवचन रूप of the क्रियाशील quadriceps  would be quadricipites .
In modern  अंग्रेज़ी उपयोग , quadriceps is प्रयुक्त  in both singular and plural .
the एकवचन रूप quadricep , उत्पादित  by hypercorrection , is frequently used .
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the  उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर on 15 अप्रैल 1912 बाद colliding साथ an हिमशैल दौरान उसके maiden voyage इससे southampton , uk to  New York City , US .
The sinking of Titanic caused the deaths of  1,502 लोगों in एक of the deadliest peacetime मेरीटाइम आपदाओं  in modern history .
The RMS Titanic was the  largest जलयान afloat at the समय of उसके maiden  voyage .
She was the second of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the White Star Line  , और वो थी निर्मित by the harland और wolff डॉकयार्ड in belfast साथ थामस एंड्रयूज , जो perished साथ the जलयान , as उसके नवल  architect .
On her  maiden voyage , वो carried 2,224  passengers and crew .
Under the command of Edward  स्मिथ , उसके यात्री शामिल कुछ of the wealthiest लोगों in the संसार , as खूब as सैंकड़ों of emigrants इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड , scandinavia  and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new life in North America .
The ship was designed to be the last word in  सुकून और लक्ज़री , साथ an on-board gymnasium , तैराकी पूल , पुस्तकालयों , high-class रेस्तरां  and opulent cabins .
She also had a powerful wireless  टेलीग्राफ provided लिये the convenience of यात्री as खूब as लिये operational  use .
Though she  था उन्नत सुरक्षा सुविधाएँ ऐसे as watertight compartments और remotely activated watertight द्वार , वो lacked  enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard .
Because of outdated  मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा regulations , वो carried तभी पर्याप्त lifeboats लिये 1,178 people—slightly  more than half of the number travelling on the maiden voyage , and one-third her total passenger and crew capacity .
After leaving Southampton on 10 April  1912 , टाइटैनिक पुकारा at cherbourg in फ़्रांस और queenstown (  now Cobh ) in Ireland before heading westwards towards New York .
On 14 April 1912 , four days into the crossing and about 375 miles ( 600 km )  दक्षिण of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड , वो hit an हिमशैल at 11:40 pm जलयान 's समय .
The glancing collision caused  titanics हल प्लेटों to बकल inwards साथ उसके स्टारबोर्ड पक्ष और खोली  five of her sixteen watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water .
meanwhile , यात्री और कुछ क्रू सदस्यों यहूद evacuated  in lifeboats , many of which were launched only partly loaded .
A disproportionate number of men were left aboard  क्युकी of a `` महिलाओं और children पहला `` प्रोटोकॉल followed by कुछ of the अधिकारियों लदान the lifeboats  .
By 2:20 AM , she broke  अलावा और foundered , साथ खूब over एक हजार लोगों  still aboard .
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered , the  cunard लाइनर rms carpathia arrived on the झाँकी of the  sinking , where she brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors .
The disaster was  greeted साथ विश्वव्यापी शॉक और आक्रोश at the विशाल घाटा  of life and the regulatory and operational failures that had led to it .
Public inquiries in Britain and the United States led  to प्रमुख सुधार in मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा  .
One of their most important legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सम्मेलन लिये the सुरक्षा of जीवन at समुद्र ( solas ) , जिससे स्टिल governs  maritime safety today .
Additionally , several new wireless regulations were passed  around the संसार in an प्रयत्न to सीख इससे the अनेक missteps in बेतार संचार -- -which could have saved  many more passengers .
Many of the survivors lost all of their money and possessions and were  बाएँ अक्षम ; अनेक परिवारों , विशेषकर those of क्रू सदस्यों इससे southampton , खोया उनके प्राथमिक  bread-winners .
They were  helped by an outpouring of पब्लिक सहानुभूति और  charitable donations .
Some of the male survivors were accused of  कायरता लिये leaving the जलयान जबकि लोगों यहूद स्टिल on फलक ; the श्वेत स्टार लकीर 's अध्यक्ष , J. ब्रूस ismay , faced सोशल ostracism  for the rest of his life .
The  रेक of the टाइटैनिक remains on the समुद्रतल , विभाजित in दो और धीरे  disintegrating at a depth of .
चूंकि इसके डिस्कवरी in 1985 , हज़ारों of artefacts have महरूम बरामद और put  on display at museums around the world .
टाइटैनिक रै become एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध जहाजों in इतिहास , उसके मेमोरी रखा  alive by numerous books , folk songs , films , exhibits , and memorials .
The human leg is the entire lower extremity or limb of  the इंसान देह , सहित the पैर , जांघ और भी the हिप or gluteal प्रदेश ; however , the precise परिभाषा in इंसान anatomy refers तभी to the खण्ड of  the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle .
Legs are  प्रयुक्त लिये खड़ा , चलना , कूद , कार्यशील , kicking , और समान क्रियाएँ , और constitute  a significant portion of a person 's mass .
This article is about the demographic features of the population of  तुर्कों , सहित जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व , नस्ल , शिक्षा स्तर , स्वास्थ्य of the populace , आर्थिक औकात , धार्मिक संबद्धों और अन्य पहलुओं of the जनसांख्यिकी .
As of 2010 , the  जनसांख्यिकी of तुर्कों is अनुमानित to be 73.7 लाख साथ a विकास रेट of  1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ) .
The  जनसांख्यिकी is अपेक्षाकृत यंग साथ  26.6 % falling in the 0-14 age bracket .
According to the OECD/World Bank population statistics in  तुर्कों the जनसांख्यिकी विकास इससे 1990 to 2008 थी  16 million or 29 % .
1998  bmw 750il
बुइक roadmaster
A full-size car is a  विपणन पद प्रयुक्त in उत्तर अमेरिका लिये an ऑटोमोबाइल larger than  a mid-size car .
In the United States , the EPA uses  the पद `` विशाल car '' to denote full-size  cars .
Joel Grey ( born April 11 , 1932 ) is an  अमरीकी स्टेज और स्क्रीन कर्ता , सिंगर , और नर्तकी , ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका as the निपुण of ceremonies in दोनो the स्टेज और फिल्मी  adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret .
He  रै जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार , टोनी पुरस्कार  and Golden Globe Award .
he भी originated the भूमिका of जार्ज M. cohan  in the musical George M !
in 1973 , the  जादूगर in the musical दुष्ट  .
Grey  भी स्ट्रक्चर in the ब्रॉडवे revivals of anything goes as  Moonface Martin , and Chicago as Amos Hart .
James Madison , Jr. ( March 16 , 1751 ( O.S  . कूच 5 ) – जून 28 , 1836 ) थी an अमरीकी statesman और राजनैतिक theorist , the चौथी अध्यक्ष  of the United States ( 1809–1817 ) .
He is hailed as the “Father of the Constitution”  लिये होने इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the drafting of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान और as the कुंजी चैंपियन और लेखक  of the United States Bill of Rights .
He served as a  राजनेता much of उसके वयस्क  life .
बाद the संविधान था महरूम drafted , मैडिसन became  one of the leaders in the movement to ratify it .
His  सहयोग साथ सिकंदर हैमिल्टन और जॉन  Jay produced the Federalist Papers ( 1788 ) .
Circulated only in New York at the time , they would later be considered among the most important  polemics in support of the संविधान .
He was also a delegate to the Virginia constitutional  ratifying सम्मेलन , और थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल to the कामयाब अनुसमर्थन प्रयत्न in  Virginia .
Like most of his  contemporaries , मैडिसन बदला उसके राजनैतिक  views during his life .
दौरान the drafting और अनुसमर्थन of the संविधान , he favored a दमदार नेशनल सरकारी , हालांकि  later he grew to favor stronger state governments , before settling between the two extremes late in his life .
In 1789 , Madison became a  नेता in the नई हाउस of प्रतिनिधि , drafting  many basic laws .
he is notable लिये drafting the पहला टेन amendments to the संविधान  , and thus is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights `` .
Madison worked closely with  अध्यक्ष जार्ज वॉशिंगटन to व्यवस्थित the नई  federal government .
Breaking with Hamilton and what  became the federalist पार्टी in 1791 , मैडिसन और थामस जेफरसन व्यवस्थित कया वे पुकारा the रिपब्लिकन  Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
as jefferson’s सचिव of राज्य ( 1801–1809 ) , मैडिसन पर्यवेक्षित  the Louisiana Purchase , which doubled the nation’s size .
बाद उसके चुनाव to the प्रेसिडेंसी , he presided  over renewed prosperity for several years .
As president ( 1809–17 ) , after the  विफलता of राजनयिक विरोध और a व्यापार embargo विरूद्ध ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  , he led the nation into the War of 1812 .
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition , he wanted to  समाप्त the influence of the अंग्रेजों among उनके भारतीय allies , जिनकी प्रतिरोध अवरोधित संयुक्त राज्य उपनिवेश in the मिडवेस्ट  around the Great Lakes .
Madison found the war to be an  प्रशासनिक दुःस्वप्न , as the संयुक्त राज्य था neither a दमदार फौज nor वित्तीय प्रणाली ; as a परिणाम , he afterward समर्थित a stronger नेशनल सरकारी  and a strong military , as well as the national bank , which he had long opposed .
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave society , he was a slaveholder who inherited his  वृक्षारोपण ज्ञात as montpelier , और स्वामित्व सैंकड़ों of स्लेव  during his lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops .
Madison  समर्थित the three-fifths सुलह कि अनुमत three-fifths of the enumerated जनसांख्यिकी of स्लेव  to be counted for representation .
`` Roman 's Revenge '' is a song performed  by अमरीकी rapper निकी minaj इससे उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम गुलाबी शुक्रवार  .
It was written by Minaj and rapper Eminem  , जो is भी प्रदर्शित in the सोंग , और थी उत्पादित by swizz  Beatz .
It was released exclusively on October 30 , 2010 through the US  itunes स्टोर , as a promotional रिलीज preceding the एल्बम 's  release .
The song initiated a feud  between लील ' किम और minaj , जहाँ अनेक लोगों लगा the सोंग थी निर्देशित at लील ' किम और regarded around उसके  feelings towards Minaj 's rise to fame .
the सोंग सन्दर्भ minaj 's alter-ego , रोमन zolanski  , and Eminem 's alter-ego , Slim Shady .
The song garnered very positive reviews from  आलोचकों , सबसे of जिससे praised the सोंग as a stand-out track on the एल्बम  .
An official remix featuring Minaj 's mentor  , लील वेन , थी released to the us itunes स्टोर on जनवरी 19 ,  2011 .
The instrumental  थी प्रयुक्त in the सोंग 'firing स्क्वाड '  by Horseshoe G.A.N.G .
हाइड्रोलिक द्रव  being poured .
Hydraulic fluids , also called  हाइड्रोलिक liquids , हैं the मीडियम by जिससे शक्ति is transferred in  hydraulic machinery .
आम हाइड्रोलिक fluids हैं आधारित  on mineral oil or water .
उदाहरण of उपकरण कि might उपयोग हाइड्रोलिक fluids शामिल excavators और backhoes , हाइड्रोलिक brakes , शक्ति परिचालन प्रणालियों , ट्रांसमिशन  , garbage trucks , aircraft flight control systems , lifts , and industrial machinery .
हाइड्रोलिक प्रणालियों जैसे the ones उल्लेखित ऊपर होगा कार्य सबसे efficiently if the  hydraulic fluid used has no compressibility
महिंद्रा ट्रैक्टर
महिंद्रा tractors , the फार्म उपकरण प्रभाग of महिंद्रा & महिंद्रा , builds और स्त्रोत tractors  that are sold worldwide across six continents .
Mahindra is also  among the शीर्ष तीन ट्रैक्टर निर्माताओं  in the world .
Mahindra has a huge  उपभोक्ता आधार in इण्डिया , चीन और अमेरिका और a growing  base in Australia .
The company builds more tractors  in इण्डिया than कोई अन्य निर्माता , और रै the क्षमता to निर्माण 150,000 tractors  a year .
In  1963 , m & m formed a संयुक्त venture साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय harvester to manufacture  tractors carrying the Mahindra nameplate for the Indian market .
Armed  साथ अभियान्त्रिकी , tooling और निर्माण know-how gained इससे इस  relationship , M & M developed its first tractor , the B-275 .
महिंद्रा tractors साथ बिक्री of nearly 85,000 इकाई annually is एक of the largest ट्रैक्टर कंपनियाँ in the संसार , और is क्रमांक  one in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the world .
To expand into the growing  ट्रैक्टर मार्केट in चीन , महिंद्रा acquired  majority stake in Jiangling .
To raise awareness about Mahindra in the US , Mahindra USA  घोषित इसके नई प्रायोजन in the nascar देशभर श्रेणी साथ r3 मोटरस्पोर्ट , जिससे is participating साथ a # 23 महिंद्रा tractors शेवरलेट  .
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson , Jr. Mahindra USA , Inc.  घोषित a 17-race प्राथमिक और 18-race संबद्ध प्रायोजन लिये the 2009 nascar देशभर  Series .
With this sponsorship ,  महिंद्रा थी the पहला भारतीय कम्पनी to प्रायोजक a car in nascar  .
In 2008 , Mahindra was a sponsor of the McDonald Motorsports team  जिससे भागा the # 81 car in the nascar देशभर श्रेणी  .
The POWER6 is a microprocessor  विकसित by ibm कि implemented the शक्ति  ISA v.2.03 .
When it became available in systems in 2007 ,  it succeeded the शक्ति5+ as ibm 's फ्लैगशिप शक्ति माइक्रोप्रोसेसर  .
It is part of the eCLipz project , said to have a goal of  converging ibm 's सर्वर हार्डवेयर जहाँ व्यावहारिक ( hence `` ipz '' in the एक्रोनिम : iseries  , pSeries , and zSeries ) .
The American middle class is a  सोशल क्लास in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion  और आम भाषा उपयोग , समकालीन सोशल वैज्ञानिकों have put आगे अनेक  , more or less congruent , theories on the American middle class .
Depending on class model used , the  मध्य क्लास may constitute anywhere इससे 25 % to 66 % of households  .
One of the first major studies of the middle class in America  थी श्वेत कॉलर : the अमरीकी मध्य वर्ग , प्रकाशित in 1951 by समाजशास्त्री C. राइट wright_mills  Mills Wright_Mills .
Later  sociologists ऐसे as डेनिस गिल्बर्ट of हैमिल्टन कॉलेज commonly divide the  middle class into two sub-groups .
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of  households is the अपर or पेशेवर मध्य क्लास consisting of  highly educated , salaried professionals and managers .
Constituting roughly one third of  households is the निम्नतर मध्य क्लास consisting ज़्यादातर of semi-professionals , skilled कारीगरों और  lower-level management .
middle-class व्यक्तियों commonly have a आरामदायक मानक of जीना , significant आर्थिक सुरक्षा , considerable कार्य स्वायत्तता  and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves .
सदस्यों of the मध्य क्लास belong to विविध समूह  which overlap with each other .
Overall , middle-class  व्यक्तियों , विशेषकर upper-middle-class individuals , हैं characterized by conceptualizing , बनाना और  consulting .
Thus , college  शिक्षा is एक of the प्रमुख indicators of middle-class  status .
Largely attributed to  the प्रकृति of middle-class occupations , मध्य क्लास मान tend to emphasize स्वतंत्रता , adherence to मूलभूत मानकों  , valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity .
नीतियां अधिक क्रियाशील than अन्य जनसांख्यिकी , कॉलेज शिक्षित मध्य क्लास  professionals are split between the two major parties .
Income varies considerably from near  the नेशनल मध्य to खूब in excess  of $ 100,000 .
Household income figures , however , do not always reflect class status and standard  of जीना , as वे हैं largely बहकावे by the क्रमांक of आय earners और असफल to recognize household आकार  .
It is  इसलिए संभावित लिये a विशाल , dual-earner , निम्नतर मध्य क्लास household to out-earn a छोटी , one-earner , अपर  middle class household .
The middle classes are very  influential , as वे encompass the बहुमत of मतदाता , लेखक , शिक्षक  , journalists , and editors .
Most societal  रुझान in the us originate भीतर the मध्य वर्ग  .
The following is a list of Saturday Night Live  डाल सदस्यों , पास्ट और उपस्थित  .
The cast members of Saturday Night Live  यहूद originally referred to as the `` नहीं तैयार लिये प्रधान समय  Players '' .
the असली डाल ( l to r ) : laraine न्युमैन , जॉन belushi , जेन कर्टिन , gilda radner , डान  Aykroyd , Garrett Morris , and Chevy Chase
Ruins  इससे the 1906 सैन फ्रांसिस्को भूकंप , remembered as एक of the worst  natural disasters in United States history
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) hazard  resulting in an इवेंट of substantial extent causing significant शारीरिक क्षति or विनाश , घाटा of जीवन  , or drastic change to the environment .
A disaster can be ostensively defined as any  tragic इवेंट stemming इससे कार्यक्रम ऐसे as भूकंप , floods , अनर्थकारी  accidents , fires , or explosions .
It is a phenomenon that can cause damage to life  और प्रॉपर्टी और नष्ट the आर्थिक , सोशल और सांस्कृतिक  life of people .
In contemporary academia , disasters are  देखी as the consequence of inappropriately प्रबंधित  risk .
These risks  हैं the उत्पाद of a संयोजन of दोनो hazard/s  and vulnerability .
Hazards that strike in areas with low vulnerability will  never become आपदाओं , as is the मामला in uninhabited regions  .
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by disasters occur in developing countries , and losses due to  प्राकृतिक आपदाओं हैं 20 टाइम्स वृहद ( as a प्रतिशत of जीडीपी ) in विकासशील देशों than  in industrialized countries .
In computing , booting ( also known as booting up ) is the  आरंभिक नियत of परिचालन कि a कंप्यूटर प्रणाली performs जब विद्युत शक्ति to the cpu  is switched on .
The process begins when a computer is turned on for the first time or is  re-energized बाद होने turned बंद , और ends जब the कंप्यूटर is तैयार to perform इसके  normal operations .
On modern general purpose computers , this can take  tens of सेकेंड और typically involves performing a power-on self-test , locating और initializing  peripheral devices , and then finding , loading and starting an operating system .
Many computer systems also allow these operations to be initiated by a software command without cycling  शक्ति , in कया is ज्ञात as a नरम रिबूट , हालांकि कुछ of the आरंभिक परिचालन might be छोड़ा on a  soft reboot .
A boot loader is a computer program that loads the  प्रमुख ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime पर्यावरण लिये the कंप्यूटर बाद पूर्णता of  the self-tests .
The  कंप्यूटर पद बूट is छोटी लिये बूटस्ट्रैप or बूटस्ट्रैप लोड  and derives from the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps .
The usage calls attention to the requirement that , if most  तन्त्र is loaded onto a कंप्यूटर by अन्य तन्त्र already कार्यशील on the कंप्यूटर  , some mechanism must exist to load initial software onto the computer .
Early computers used a variety of ad-hoc methods to  मिलेंगी a छोटी कार्यक्रम into मेमोरी to solve इस प्रॉब्लम  .
The invention of integrated  सर्किट read-only मेमोरी ( rom ) of विभिन्न प्रकार हल इस विरोधाभास by allowing कंप्यूटर to be shipped साथ a प्रारंभ up कार्यक्रम  that could not be erased .
विकास in the क्षमता of rom रै अनुमत कभी अधिक विस्तृत  start up procedures to be implemented .
On general purpose computers , the boot  प्रक्रम begins साथ the निष्पादन of an आरंभिक कार्यक्रम भंडारित in बूट roms or पढ़ा in another फ़ैशन  .
In some older  कंप्यूटर , the आरंभिक कार्यक्रम might have महरूम the अनुप्रयोग to  run , if no operating system was used , or the operating system .
In other computers , the initial program is a boot  लोडर कि may तब लोड into random-access मेमोरी ( राम ) , इससे nonvolatile द्वितीयक भंडार ( ऐसे as a मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव ) or , in कुछ पुरानी कंप्यूटर , इससे a मीडियम ऐसे as punched ताश , punched टेप , or चुम्बकीय टेप in पुरानी कंप्यूटर  , the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it .
If  the बूट लोडर is सीमित in इसके आकार और सामर्थ्य , it may , बजाय , लोड a larger और अधिक सक्षम द्वितीयक बूट  loader , which would then load the operating system or runtime environment .
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot  अनुक्रम to शुरू कामकाज और जब turned on may बस चलाएं operational कार्यक्रम कि हैं  stored in ROM .
Firebird is an open source SQL relational database  प्रबन्धन प्रणाली कि रनों on लिनक्स , खिड़कियाँ , और a किस्में of  Unix .
The database  forked इससे borland 's खोलें सोर्स संस्करण of interbase in 2000 , लकिन चूंकि firebird 1.5  the code has been largely rewritten .
Outsourcing is the  contracting आउट of an आतंरिक कारोबार प्रक्रम  to a third-party organization .
The practice of contracting a business  प्रक्रम आउट to a तीसरा पार्टी बल्कि than स्टॉफ it internally is आम  in the modern economy .
The term `` outsourcing '' became popular in  the संयुक्त राज्य निकट the फेरे  of the 21st century .
Outsourcing  sometimes involves transferring कर्मचारी और एसेट इससे एक कड़  to another , but not always .
the परिभाषा of आउटसोर्सिंग शामिल दोनो विदेशी और घरेलू contracting  , and sometimes includes offshoring , which means relocating a business function to another country .
Financial savings from lower  अंतरराष्ट्रीय मजदूर दरों is a बिग प्रेरणा लिये outsourcing/offshoring  .
The opposite of outsourcing is  पुकारा insourcing , जिससे entails bringing प्रक्रियाओं संभाला by third-party firms in-house  , and is sometimes accomplished via vertical integration .
However , a  कारोबार can provide a अनुबंध सेवा to another कारोबार बगैर necessarily  insourcing that business process .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that  कल्याणकारी acquired immunodeficiency सिंड्रोम ( एड्स ) , a कंडीशन in इंसानो in जिससे प्रगतिशील विफलता of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली allows life-threatening opportunistic  infections and cancers to thrive .
संक्रमण साथ hiv occurs by the ट्रांसफ़र of रक्त  , semen , vaginal fluid , pre-ejaculate , or breast milk .
भीतर ये bodily fluids , hiv is उपस्थित as दोनो फ़्री वायरस अणु  and virus within infected immune cells .
HIV infects vital  कोशिकाएं in the इंसान प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली ऐसे as हेल्पर t कोशिकाएं ( specifically cd4 + t कोशिकाएं  ) , macrophages , and dendritic cells .
HIV infection leads to  कम स्तर of cd4+ t कोशिकाएं through a क्रमांक of mechanisms सहित : apoptosis of uninfected bystander कोशिकाएं  , direct viral killing of infected cells , and killing of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells .
जब cd4+ t कोशिका संख्याएँ मनाही नीचे a नाजुक स्तर , cell-mediated प्रतिरक्षण is खोया  , and the body becomes progressively more susceptible to opportunistic infections .
The firepole  in a आग स्टेशन in  Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal  ट्यूब or पाइप संस्थापित between floors in आग स्टेशन , allowing अग्निशमन responding to an सचेतक to जल्दी descend to the मैदान मंजिल तेज़ than  by using a standard staircase .
The device was invented in the  1870s by दाउद kenyon , in शिकागो , इलिनोइस , हालांकि it is प्रायः incorrectly credited  to the Boston Fire Department .
Mary Poppins  is the शीर्षक अक्षर of a श्रेणी of children 's किताबे लिखा  by P. L. Travers .
Throughout the  मरियम poppins श्रेणी , जिससे lasted इससे 1934 to 1988 , मरियम shepard  was the illustrator and acted as a second author .
The books centre on a  जादुई अंग्रेज़ी नैनी , मरियम  Poppins .
She is blown by the East wind to Number Seventeen  चेरी पेड़ लेन , लंदन , और into the बैंको ' household to परवाह  for their children .
मुठभेड़ों साथ चिमनी sweeps , दुकानदारों और विभिन्न adventures follow  until Mary Poppins abruptly leaves , i.e. , `` pops-out '' .
The  adventures लो प्लेस over a कुल of आठ  books .
However ,  तभी the पहला तीन किताबे विशेषता मरियम poppins  arriving and leaving .
The  बाद पाँच किताबे recount previously unrecorded adventures इससे  her original three visits .
As P. L.  ट्रेवर्स explains in उसके परिचय to मरियम poppins in the पार्क , `` वो can नहीं forever arrive  and depart . ''
The books were adapted in 1964 into a musical Disney film starring  जूली एंड्रयूज और लंड वैन dyke  .
In 2004 ,  डिज़्नी नाट्य उत्पादित a स्टेज musical अनुकूलन in  the West End theatre .
The stage musical was transferred to  ब्रॉडवे in 2006 जहाँ it भागा जबतक इसके closing on  March 3 , 2013 .
It has been highly  कामयाब , as  was the 1964 film .
The Last Song is a  2010 अमरीकी coming of आयु टीन रोमांटिक नाटक फिल्मी विकसित alongside निकोलस  Sparks ' novel by the same name .
The film was  निर्देशित by जूली ऐनी रॉबिन्सन in उसके विशेषता फिल्मी directorial डेब्यू और co-written by स्पार्क्स  and Jeff Van Wie .
The  पिछला सोंग सितारों miley सायरस , लियाम hemsworth , और ग्रेग kinnear और फ़ॉलो a troubled किशोरावस्था as वो reconnects  with her estranged father and falls in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town .
The film is  वितरित by touchstone तस्वीरें  .
स्पार्क्स थी approached to लिखें दोनो the फिल्मी 's पटकथा  and the novel .
Sparks completed the  पटकथा in जनवरी 2009 , prior to the पूर्णता of the अनोखा , बनाना the पिछला सोंग  his first script to be optioned for film .
The  सेटिंग , originally in उत्तर कैरोलिना जैसे the अनोखा , स्थानांतरित to जॉर्जिया बाद the  states had campaigned for months to host production .
Upon beginning  उत्पादन in tybee द्वीप , जॉर्जिया और आसपास savannah , the पिछला सोंग became the  first movie to be both shot and set in Tybee Island .
Filming lasted from June 15 to August 18 ,  2009 साथ much of it occurring on the द्वीप 's बीच और  pier .
The Last Song was originally scheduled for wide release on January 8 ,  2010 , लकिन थी स्थगित to कूच 31  , 2010 .
लिखा simlish
Simlish is  a fictional भाषा प्रदर्शित in ea खेल ' sim  series of games .
It debuted  in simcopter , और रै महरूम विशेषकर prominent in the सीम  , The Sims 2 and The Sims 3 .
The Sims development team  निर्मित the अद्वितीय simlish भाषा by experimenting साथ fractured यूक्रेनी , फ्रेंच ,  Latin , Finnish , English , Fijian , Cebuano , and Tagalog .
Simlish can  भी be सुना in simcity 4 , simcity समाजों और  SimCity 2013 , but far less frequently .
civilized जीव in spore can भी be सिखाया to बोलो  Simlish .
It is also  प्रदर्शित to an extent in firaxis खेल  ' Sid Meier 's SimGolf .
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need for  संवाद in the खेल , लकिन विचार कि using a रियल भाषा होता मेक it ध्वनि too दोहराए और होता भी be too costly  to hire translators for world languages .
Initially , inspired by the Native American code talkers of World War II , Sims creator Will Wright and  भाषा विशेषज्ञ मार्क gimbel सुझाया experimenting साथ the navajo भाषा to बनाएँ simlish  .
However , they ultimately decided that Simlish worked best as a  `` भाषा '' बना up of gibberish शब्द कि could n't be अनूदित , so कि इसके अर्थ होता be बाएँ खोलें to the  imagination of the player .
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense language '' turned out to be the right  विकास चुनाव , as लोगों यहूद सक्षम of imagining it अधिक realistically  than a computer could simulate a real one .
the वास्तविक ध्वनि of simlish थी निर्मित improvisationally by आवाज़ अभिनेताओं  Stephen Kearin and Gerri Lawlor .
An  उदाहरण of अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण ( ut ) on ब्लेड जड़ें of a v2500  IAE aircraft engine .
Step 1 : The UT probe is placed  on the रूट of the ब्लेड to be inspected साथ the सहायता of a खास  borescope tool ( video probe ) .
कदम 2 : यंत्र जमावट  are input .
Step 3 : The probe is  scanned over the ब्लेड रूट  .
In this case , an indication ( peak in the data ) through  the रेड लकीर ( or फाटक ) indicates a शुभ ब्लेड ; an indication to the बाएँ of कि  range indicates a crack .
principle of अल्ट्रासोनिक  testing .
LEFT : A probe sends a sound  वेव into a परीक्षण सामग्री .
There  हैं दो indications , एक इससे the आरंभिक पल्स  of the probe , and the second due to the back wall echo .
सही : a defect creates a तीसरा indication और simultaneously reduces the  amplitude of the back wall indication .
The depth  of the defect is संकल्पित by the अनुपात  D/E
In ultrasonic testing ( UT ) , very short  अल्ट्रासोनिक pulse-waves साथ बीच बारंबारता ranging इससे 0.1-15 mhz और occasionally up to 50 mhz हैं शुभारम्भ into  materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize materials .
A common example is ultrasonic  मोटाई मापन , जिससे परीक्षण the मोटाई of the परीक्षण ऑब्जेक्ट  , for example , to monitor pipework corrosion .
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on steel and other metals and  alloys , हालांकि it can भी be प्रयुक्त on कंक्रीट , लकडी और composites , albeit साथ कम रेज़ोल्यूशन  .
It is a  रूप of non-destructive परीक्षण प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग सहित  aerospace , automotive and other transportation sectors .
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ) , also called  ductus deferens ( लैटिन : `` carrying-away पोत '' ; बहुवचन : ductus deferentes ) , is भाग of the पुरूष anatomy of अनेक vertebrates ; वे हस्तांतरण शुक्राणु इससे the epididymis  in anticipation of ejaculation .
Vascular ischemia  of the toes साथ characteristic  cyanosis .
In medicine , ischemia , also spelled as ischaemia or  ischæmia , ( ; इससे यूनानी भाषा ισχαιμία , ischaimía ; isch- रूट denoting a प्रतिबंध or thinning or to मेक or grow thin/lean , haema रक्त ) is a प्रतिबंध in  blood supply to tissues , causing a shortage of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ) .
Ischemia is generally caused by  समस्याएं साथ रक्त बरतन , साथ resultant क्षति to or dysfunction  of tissue .
It also means local anemia in a given part of a body  sometimes resulting इससे जमघट ( ऐसे as vasoconstriction , घनास्रता or वाहिकारोध  ) .
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome , also known as trisomy  21 , is a जेनेटिक विकार caused by the उपस्थिति of सब or भाग of a तीसरा नक़ल of  chromosome 21 .
Down  सिंड्रोम is the सबसे आम chromosome  abnormality in humans .
It is typically associated with a delay in cognitive  क्षमता ( दिमागी retardation , or mr ) और शारीरिक विकास , और a particular नियत of फेशियल विशेषताएँ  .
The average IQ of young  वयस्कों साथ bas सिंड्रोम is around 50 , whereas यंग वयस्कों बगैर the  condition typically have an IQ of 100 .
( MR has  historically महरूम पारिभाषित as an iq नीचे 70 .  )
A large proportion of  individuals साथ bas सिंड्रोम have a कठोर उपाधि of  intellectual disability .
Down syndrome is named after John Langdon Down , the  अंग्रेजों चिकित्सक जो वर्णित the सिंड्रोम  in 1866 .
The condition was clinically described earlier by  जां etienne dominique esquirol in 1838 और edouard seguin  in 1844 .
Down syndrome was identified as a  chromosome 21 trisomy by dr. jérôme lejeune in 1959  .
Down syndrome can be  पहचाना in a baby at जनम or पहले जनम by prenatal स्क्रीनिंग  .
pregnancies साथ इस निदान  are often terminated .
The CDC estimates that  परिचय एक of प्रत्येक 691 शिशु born in the संयुक्त राज्य प्रत्येक साल is born साथ bas  syndrome .
Many children with Down syndrome are educated in  नियमित स्कूल वर्ग जबकि अन्य आवश्यकता specialised शैक्षणिक  facilities .
Some children graduate from high  स्कूल , और , in the us , वहीँ हैं increasing अवसर लिये participating  in post-secondary education .
Education and proper care has been shown  to improve विशेषता of जीवन significantly  .
Many adults with  bas सिंड्रोम हैं समर्थ to कार्य at सशुल्क नियुक्ति in the जातियाँ , जबकि अन्य  require a more sheltered work environment .
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes , or night sweats  if वे happen at रात्रि ) हैं a लक्षण जिससे may have अनेक अन्य कल्याणकारी , लकिन जिससे is प्रायः caused by the बदलना  hormone levels that are characteristic of menopause .
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L . 78-346 , 58 Stat . 284m ) ,  ज्ञात informally as the g.i . विधेयक , थी a विधि कि provided a दायरा of लाभ लिये returning संसार युद्ध ii दिग्गजों ( commonly referred to as  G.I.s ) .
Benefits included low-cost mortgages , low-interest loans to start a business or farm , cash payments of tuition and living  खर्च to attend कॉलेज , ऊँची स्कूल or वोकेशनल शिक्षा , as खूब as एक साल of बेरोजगारी  compensation .
It was available to every veteran who had been on active  ड्यूटी दौरान the युद्ध सालो लिये at तनिक नब्बे दिनों और था नहीं महरूम dishonorably discharged ; कॉम्बैट थी  not required .
By the end of the program in 1956 , roughly 2.2 million veterans had used the G.I . Bill  शिक्षा लाभ in अनुक्रम to attend कॉलेजों or विश्वविद्यालयों , और an अतिरिक्त 6.6 लाख प्रयुक्त  these benefits for some kind of training program .
Since the  असली 1944 विधि , the पद रै आइये to शामिल अन्य दिग्गज लाभ कार्यक्रम निर्मित to assist  veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service .
Historians and economists consider the G.I . Bill a major political success—especially  in कंट्रास्ट to the उपचार of संसार युद्ध i veterans—and a प्रमुख योगदान to अमेरिका 's भण्डार of इंसान पूंजी  that sped long-term economic growth .
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred in the United States in the 1970s as a result of the June 17 , 1972 break-in at the Democratic  नेशनल कमेटी मुख्यालय at the वाटरगेट दफ्तर जटिल in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , और the निक्सन प्रशासन 's attempted cover-up  of its involvement .
The  कांड आखिरकार led to the इस्तीफा of रिचर्ड निक्सन , the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य  , on August 9 , 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. President .
The scandal also resulted in the  indictment , विचारण , conviction , और incarceration of forty-three व्यक्तियों , दर्जनों of जिसको यहूद  Nixon 's top administration officials .
The affair began with the arrest  of पाँच मेन लिये तोड़कर और प्रवेश into the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल कमेटी ( dnc ) मुख्यालय  at the Watergate complex on June 17 , 1972 .
The Federal Bureau  of छानबीन ( एफबीआई ) कनेक्ट नकदी मिला on the burglars to a slush निधि प्रयुक्त by the कमेटी लिये the re-election  of the President , the official organization of Nixon 's campaign .
In July 1973 , as evidence mounted against the  अध्यक्ष 's स्टाफ , सहित गवाही provided by पूर्व स्टाफ सदस्यों in an छानबीन conducted by the सीनेट वाटरगेट कमेटी , it थी नाज़िल कि अध्यक्ष निक्सन  had a tape-recording system in his offices and he had recorded many conversations .
रिकार्डिंग इससे ये टेपों implicated the अध्यक्ष , revealing he था attempted to कवर up the questionable ( और illegal ) goings-on कि  had taken place during his administration , both before and after the break-in .
After a protracted series of bitter court battles , the  u.S. परम् अदालत unanimously शासित कि the अध्यक्ष था to हाथ over the टेपों to सरकारी जांचकर्ताओं ; he ultimately  complied .
Facing near-certain impeachment in the House of Representatives and a strong  सम्भावना of a conviction in the सीनेट , निक्सन resigned the प्रेसिडेंसी on अगस्त 9 , 1974  .
His  successor , जेराल्ड घाट , तब जारी a pardon  to him .
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly Lansing and Spencer ) is a  fictional अक्षर on the एबीसी दिन साबुन ओपेरा सामान्य हॉस्पिटल  .
Elizabeth is the  पोती of dr. स्टीव हार्डी ( जॉन beradino )  , one of the originating core characters of the series .
Rebecca Herbst originated the  अक्षर on अगस्त 1 , 1997 और रै महरूम  the only contract actress to play the role .
Elizabeth is  भाग of दो supercouple pairings , भाग्यशाली स्पेंसर और एलिज़ाबेथ webber और  Jason Morgan and Elizabeth Webber .
The United States presidency of Ronald Reagan , also known as the Reagan administration , was a  रिपब्लिकन प्रशासन headed by रोनाल्ड reagan इससे जनवरी 20 , 1981 , to जनवरी 20 , 1989 .
Domestically , the administration favored reducing  सरकारी कार्यक्रम और introduced the largest across-the-board कर कटौती  in American history .
The economic  नीतियों enacted in 1981 , ज्ञात as `` reaganomics `` , यहूद  an example of supply-side economics .
Reagan aimed to encourage entrepreneurship  और सीमा the विकास of सोशल बिता , as खूब as the कटौती  of regulation and inflation .
Economic growth  देखी a दमदार रिकवरी in the 1980s , helping reagan to जीत a भूस्खलन  re-election .
the नेशनल कर्ज़ increased significantly  , however .
Regarding foreign policy , the administration  थी steadfastly anti-communist , कॉलिंग the सोवियत संघ an `` दुष्ट साम्राज्य `` और समाप्ति 1970s détente .
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military started by his  पूर्ववर्ती , सहित an आक्रमण of हरा , the पहला प्रमुख विदेशी कार्रवाई by u.S. सैनिकों चूंकि  the end of the Vietnam War .
The `` Reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid to paramilitary forces seeking to overthrow  कम्युनिस्ट सरकारें , विशेषकर in war-torn सेंट्रल अमेरिका और अफगानिस्तान  .
Reagan also promoted  नई technologies ऐसे as मिसाइल रक्षा प्रणालियों in अनुक्रम to confront the soviets और उनके  allies .
In diplomacy , Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , and  he मिले साथ सोवियत सामान्य सचिव मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव चार टाइम्स , aiming to shrink the superpowers '  nuclear arsenals .
Reagan 's  प्रेसिडेंसी रै महरूम termed the `` reagan क्रान्ति '' , or the आयु of reagan in मान्यता of the राजनैतिक realignment दोनो भीतर और परे the u.S.  in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets .
the reagan प्रशासन worked toward the पतन of सोवियत साम्यवादी , और it  did collapse just as he left office .
Victory in the Cold War led to a  unipolar संसार साथ the u.S. as the संसार 's एकमात्र  superpower .
जबकि the damaging iran-contra affair engulfed अनेक reagan aides दौरान उसके दूसरी पद , reagan खुद बाएँ  office with a 63 percent approval rating , one of the higher approval ratings of departing presidents .
After years of unstinting praise from the right , and  unrelenting आलोचना इससे the बाएँ , इतिहासकार दाउद हेनरी पाता कि by 2009 a सर्वसम्मति था उभरा among विद्वानों कि reagan revived कोसा और turned the स्वदेश to the सही by demonstrating a `` pragmatic कोसा  '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system .
Furthermore , says Henry , the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the  प्रेसिडेंसी और अमरीकी self-confidence , और contributed critically to समाप्ति the ठंडा युद्ध  .
Crude death  रेट by देश ( 2006  ) .
Mortality rate is a measure of the number of deaths ( in general ,  or due to a विशिष्ट कारण ) in a जनसांख्यिकी  .
scaled to the आकार of कि जनसांख्यिकी , प्रति  unit of time .
Mortality rate is typically  expressed in इकाई of मौतों प्रति 1000 individuals प्रति साल ; यूँ , a मृत्यु रेट of 9.5 ( आउट  of 1000 ) in a population of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population , or 0.95 % out of the total .
It is distinct from morbidity rate , which refers to the number of  individuals in ग़रीब स्वास्थ्य दौरान a दिए समय काल ( the व्यापकता रेट ) or the क्रमांक of newly appearing मामले of the बीमारी  per unit of time ( incidence rate ) .
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to  refer to the क्रमांक of मौतों among a नियत of diagnosed हॉस्पिटल मामले लिये a बीमारी or चोट , बल्कि than  for the general population of a country or ethnic group .
This disease  मृत्यु statistic is अधिक precisely referred to as `` मामला fatality  rate `` ( CFR ) .
एक distinguishes:
The crude death rate , the  कुल क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल प्रति 1000 लोगों  .
the crude death rate for the whole world is  परिचय 8.37 प्रति 1000 प्रति साल according to the वर्तमान सीआईए संसार  Factbook .
the perinatal मृत्यु रेट , the योग of neonatal मौतों और fetal मौतों ( stillbirths  ) per 1000 births .
The maternal mortality  अनुपात , the क्रमांक of मातृ  deaths per 100,000 live births in same time period .
The maternal mortality rate , the number of maternal deaths per 1,000 women of  reproductive आयु in the जनसांख्यिकी ( generally पारिभाषित as 15–44  years of age ) .
The infant  मृत्यु रेट , the क्रमांक of मौतों of children कम than  1 year old per 1000 live births .
The child mortality rate , the number of deaths of children  कम than 5 सालो बूढ़ा प्रति 1000 सजीव births  .
The standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) -  इस represents a आंशिक तुलना to the संख्याएँ of मौतों कि होता have महरूम अपेक्षित if the जनसांख्यिकी था महरूम of a मानक  composition in terms of age , gender , etc .
the age-specific मृत्यु रेट ( asmr ) - इस refers to the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल  per 1000 people of a given age ( e.g . age 62 last birthday ) .
In regard to the or failure of medical  उपचार or प्रक्रियाओं , एक होता भी distinguish:
The early mortality  रेट , the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the जल्दी चरण of an जारी उपचार  , or in the period immediately following an treatment .
The late mortality rate  , the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the लेट चरण of an जारी उपचार , or a significant लंबाई of  time after an acute treatment .
Note that the crude death rate as defined above and  लागू to a पूरे जनसांख्यिकी can दे a भ्रामक छाप  .
The crude death rate depends on the age ( and gender ) specific  मृत्यु दरों और the आयु ( और लिंग ) वितरण of the जनसांख्यिकी  .
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for developed  राष्ट्र than in less-developed देशों , despite जीवन प्रत्याशा होने उच्चतर in विकसित देशों due to मानकों  of health being better .
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely different  जनसांख्यिकी आयु वितरण , साथ a much उच्चतर proportion of पुरानी लोगों , due to दोनो निम्नतर हाल जनम दरों और निम्नतर मृत्यु दरों  .
A more complete  चित्र of मृत्यु is दिए by a  life table which shows the mortality rate separately for each age .
A life table is necessary to give a  शुभ अनुमान of जीवन प्रत्याशा  .
An  otoacoustic उत्सर्जन ( oae ) is a ध्वनि  which is generated from within the inner ear .
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948 , its existence was first  demonstrated experimentally by दाउद kemp in 1978 और otoacoustic emissions have चूंकि महरूम दिखाया to उठता by a क्रमांक of अलग सेल्यूलर  mechanisms within the inner ear .
Studies have  दिखाया कि oaes गायब बाद the भीतरी कान रै महरूम क्षतिग्रस्त , so oaes हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त in the प्रयोगशाला और the  clinic as a measure of inner ear health .
Broadly speaking , there are two types of otoacoustic  emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( soaes ) , जिससे can occur बगैर बाह्य उत्तेजनाओं  , and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ) , which require an evoking stimulus .
Hurricane Tomas was the  उन्नीसवीं नामित तूफ़ान और बारहवीं hurricane of the 2010  Atlantic hurricane season .
टॉमस विकसित इससे a तीव्र वेव ईस्ट of the windward  Islands on October 29 .
Quickly intensifying into a hurricane , it  स्थानांतरित through the windward आइलैंड्स और passed बहुत निकट  Saint Lucia .
After  reaching श्रेणी 2 औकात on the saffir-simpson स्केल , टॉमस जल्दी weakened to a तीव्र तूफ़ान in  the central Caribbean Sea , due to strong wind shear and dry air .
Tomas later regained hurricane status as it  reorganized निकट the windward ड्योढ़ी  .
Throughout the hurricane 's path , 71 people are known to  have महरूम मारे , 14 of जिसको यहूद in संत लूसिया .
Monetary losses throughout the  windward आइलैंड्स यहूद अनुमानित at us $ 588 लाख , मुख्यतः in संत लूसिया .
In the wake of the storm in Haiti ,  बाढ़ intensified an जारी हैजा outbreak indirectly causing अधिक fatalities  .
According to a report released in December 2010  , 55 लोगों यहूद मारे in क्यूबा और hispanola , हालांकि the वितरण of ये fatalities हैं अनजान  .
Overall damage from the storm  थी at तनिक $ 741 लाख  .
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2 , 1959 )  is an अमरीकी हास्य , अभिनेत्री , satirist , सिंगर और अंतरजाल ब्लॉगर बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a डाल सदस्य of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न स्केच कॉमेडी श्रेणी  Saturday Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992 .
She has received attention as a vocal critic of  अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा , और is an क्रियाशील भागीदार in the चाय पार्टी  movement .
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by  भारी रिलायंस on तकनीकों जैसे fragmentation , विरोधाभास , और questionable narrators , और is प्रायः ( हालांकि  not exclusively ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era .
Postmodern works are  देखी as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध आत्मज्ञान सोच और modernist  approaches to literature .
Postmodern  साहित्य , जैसे postmodernism as a पूरे , tends  to resist definition or classification as a `` movement '' .
Indeed , the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory , particularly reader-response and  deconstructionist approaches , और the subversions of the अव्यक्त अनुबंध between लेखक , टेक्स्ट और रीडर by जिससे इसके works हैं प्रायः characterised , have led to pre-modern fictions ऐसे as cervantes  ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence Sterne 's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold .
जबकि वहीँ is छोटी सर्वसम्मति on the precise विशेषताएँ , पैमाना , और  importance of postmodern literature , as is often the case with artistic movements , postmodern literature is commonly defined in relation to a precursor .
For example , a postmodern literary work tends  नहीं to conclude साथ the neatly tied-up समाप्ति as is प्रायः मिला in modernist  literature , but often parodies it .
Postmodern  लेखक tend to celebrate मौका over शिल्प , और further employ  metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority .
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of distinctions between  ऊँची और कम संस्कृति through the उपयोग of pastiche , the संयोजन of विषय और जाति नहीं previously  deemed fit for literature .
Enigma is an electronic musical  प्रोजेक्ट संस्थापित in जर्मनी by माइकल cretu , दाउद  Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990 .
The  romanian-born cretu conceived the पहेली प्रोजेक्ट जबकि working in जर्मनी , लकिन आधारित उसके रिकॉर्डिंग स्टुडियो a.r.t . studios in ibiza , स्पेन  , from the early 1990s until May 2009 , where he has recorded all of Enigma 's studio releases to date .
Cretu is both the  composer और the निर्माता of the प्रोजेक्ट  .
His former wife , pop singer  सैंड्रा , प्रायः provided vocals on पहेली ट्रैक्स  .
Jens  gad co-arranged और निभाई गिटार  on three of the Enigma albums .
Peter  कॉर्नेलियस भी contributed to पहेली  during the 1990s .
Seven studio albums have  महरूम उत्पादित अंतर्गत the नाम of  the project .
Scooby-Doo is an American animated  कार्टून मताधिकार , comprising अनेक एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी उत्पादित इससे 1969 to  the present day .
The original  श्रेणी , scooby-doo , जहाँ  Are You !
, was created for  hanna-barbera प्रोडक्शन्स by लेखक  Joe Ruby and Ken Spears in 1969 .
This Saturday morning cartoon series featured four teenagers— Fred Jones , Daphne Blake , Velma Dinkley ,  और norville `` shaggy '' रोजर्स — और उनके talking भूरा ग्रेट डेन श्वान नामित scooby-doo , जो solve रहस्यों involving माना अलौकिक जीव through a श्रेणी of हरकतों और  missteps .
Following the success of the original series , Hanna-Barbera and its successor Warner Bros . Animation  have उत्पादित numerous follow-up और spin-off एनिमेटेड श्रेणी और अनेक सम्बन्धित works , सहित टेलीविज़न specials और telefilms , a लकीर of direct-to-video  films , and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films .
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature different  विसंगतियाँ on the दिखाएँ 's अलौकिक थीम , और शामिल वर्ण ऐसे as स्कूबी 's cousin scooby-dum और भतीजे  Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters .
Scooby-Doo was originally broadcast on  सीबीएस इससे 1969 to 1976 , जब it स्थानांतरित to एबीसी  .
ABC aired the show until  canceling it in 1986 , और प्रस्तुत a spin-off featuring the वर्ण as children , a pup नामित scooby-doo , इससे  1988 until 1991 .
Two new Scooby-Doo  श्रेणी , कया 's नई , scooby-doo ?
and Shaggy and  scooby-doo मिलेंगी a a सुराग ! ] ] , aired as भाग of बच्चे wb on the wb संजाल और इसके successor  , The CW network , from 2002 until 2008 .
The most recent  scooby-doo श्रेणी , scooby-doo  !
रहस्य incorporated , aired on  Cartoon Network from 2010 to 2013 .
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are  ब्रॉडकास्ट अक्सर on कार्टून संजाल और boomerang in the संयुक्त राज्य और अन्य देशों  .
Call of Duty is  a first-person और third-person  shooter computer/ video game franchise .
the श्रेणी began on the pc , और  later expanded to consoles and handhelds .
Several spin-off  खेल have भी महरूम released  .
The earlier  खेल in the श्रेणी हैं नियत primarily in संसार युद्ध ii , इस शामिल : कॉल of  Duty , Call of Duty 2 , and Call of Duty 3 .
Beginning with Modern Warfare ,  जिससे is नियत in आधुनिक टाइम्स , the श्रेणी रै shifted फ़ोकस  away from World War II .
Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare ( released November 2007 ) was  followed by कॉल of ड्यूटी : संसार at युद्ध और कॉल of ड्यूटी : आधुनिक warfare  2 .
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the  ठंडा युद्ध , जबकि आधुनिक warfare 3 ( released नवम्बर 2011 ) takes प्लेस in the near-future सेटिंग  .
Black Ops 2 ( Released  नवम्बर 13 , 2012 ) takes प्लेस in the  year 2025 .
The Call of Duty games are published  और स्वामित्व by एक्टिविजन साथ aspyr मीडिया प्रकाशन it लिये ठहराना os  X .
While the  स्टुडियो अनंत वार्ड primarily स्टिल develops उन्हें , treyarch रै भी विकसित  several of the titles with the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other .
Some games have been  विकसित by धूसर पदार्थ इंटरैक्टिव , चिंगारी असीमित , विस्मित entertainment , n-space , विद्रोह developments  , Ideaworks Game Studio , Sledgehammer Games and nStigate Games .
The games use a variety of  इंजन , सहित the id तकनीक 3 , the treyarch ngl , और  the IW 5.0 .
Other products in the franchise include a line of action  आंकड़े designed by plan-b खिलौने , a कार्ड खेल निर्मित by अपर डेक , और a कॉमिक किताब  mini-series published by WildStorm .
As of  नवम्बर 11 , 2011 , the कॉल of ड्यूटी श्रेणी have बेची  over 100 million copies .
As of March 31 , 2012 there are 40  लाख मासिक क्रियाशील खिलाड़ी आरपार सब of the कॉल of ड्यूटी शीर्षक , साथ 10 लाख कॉल of ड्यूटी : elite उपयोक्ता और 2 लाख  paying annual members .
Over 1.6 billion  घंटों of ऑनलाइन gameplay have महरूम logged आधुनिक warfare  3 since its 2011 release .
the एस्टेट कर in the संयुक्त राज्य is a कर imposed on the ट्रांसफ़र of the `` taxable एस्टेट `` of a मृतक व्यक्ति , whether ऐसे प्रॉपर्टी is transferred via a होगा , according to the राज्य कानून of intestacy or वरना बना as an घटना of  the death of the owner , such as a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust , or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries .
The  एस्टेट कर is एक भाग of the एकीकृत तोहफा और एस्टेट  Tax system in the United States .
the अन्य भाग of the प्रणाली , the तोहफा कर , imposes a कर on हस्तांतरण of प्रॉपर्टी दौरान  a person 's life ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate .
In addition to the federal  सरकारी , अनेक राज्य भी थोपने an एस्टेट कर , साथ the राज्य संस्करण पुकारा either an  estate tax or an inheritance tax .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of the एस्टेट कर कॉल it the ``  death tax '' .
If an asset is left to a  जीवनसाथी or a federally पहचाना दान , the कर प्रायः  does not apply .
In addition , up to $ 5,250,000  can be दिए by an व्यक्तिगत , पहले and/or upon उनके मौत , बगैर रूष्ट  federal gift or estate taxes .
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October  1967 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी कर्ता और संगीतकार , ज्ञात as the सीसे सिंगर और लय  guitarist of the rock band Bush .
Following Bush 's separation in 2002 , which  lasted लिये आठ सालो , he थी the सीसे सिंगर और guitarist लिये संस्थान ,  and later began a solo career .
When performing  सोलो , गेविन plays गीतों इससे उसके  extensive musical libraries .
Rossdale has been  क्रमित in the शीर्ष 100 भारी मेटल vocalists by hit parader  ( # 75 ) .
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or March 28 , 1483 – April 6 , 1520 ) ,  बेहतर ज्ञात बस as राफेल , थी an इतालवी चित्रकार और वास्तु of the ऊँची पुनर्जागरण  .
His work is  admired लिये इसके स्पष्टता of रूप और आसानी of संयोजन और लिये इसके विज़ुअल  achievement of the Neoplatonic ideal of human grandeur .
Together with Michelangelo  और लियोनार्डो da विंची , he फ़ॉर्म the परंपरागत ट्रिनिटी of ग्रेट  masters of that period .
Raphael  थी enormously उत्पादक , कार्यशील an unusually विशाल कार्यशाला , और despite उसके मौत  at 37 , a large body of his work remains .
Many of his works are found in the Vatican  राजमहल , जहाँ the frescoed राफेल कक्ष यहूद the सेंट्रल  , and the largest , work of his career .
The best known work is The School of  एथेंस in the वेटिकन stanza देला segnatura  .
After his early years in Rome much of his work was  self-designed , लकिन लिये the सबसे भाग चलाया by the कार्यशाला इससे उसके drawings ,  with considerable loss of quality .
He was extremely influential in his lifetime ,  हालांकि बाहर रोम उसके कार्य थी ज़्यादातर ज्ञात इससे उसके  collaborative printmaking .
After his death , the influence of his great rival Michelangelo  थी अधिक फैली जबतक the 18th और 19th सदियां , जब राफेल 's अधिक निर्मल और समन्वयात्मक  qualities were again regarded as the highest models .
His  करियर जलप्रपात naturally into तीन phases और तीन शैलियाँ , पहला वर्णित by giorgio vasari : उसके जल्दी  years in Umbria , then a period of about four years ( from 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic traditions of Florence , followed by his last hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome , working for two Popes and their close associates .
जूलिया फिओना रॉबर्ट्स ( born  October 28 , 1967 ) is an American actress .
She became a Hollywood  स्टार बाद headlining the रोमांटिक कॉमेडी pretty स्त्री ( 1990 ) , जिससे grossed  $ 464 million worldwide .
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations  लिये स्टील magnolias ( 1989 ) और pretty स्त्री , वो जीती the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री  for her performance in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ) .
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ) , My Best  dost 's विवाह ( 1997 ) , रहस्यवादी पिज़्ज़ा ( 1988 ) , नॉटिंग हिल ( 1999 ) , runaway बहू ( 1999 ) , समंदर 's ग्यारह ( 2001 ) , समंदर 's बारह ( 2004 ) , चार्ली विल्सन 's युद्ध ( 2007 ) , वेलेंटाइन 's दिन ( 2010 ) , खा दुवा प्रेम ( 2010 ) , और दर्पण दर्पण ( 2012 ) have collectively brought बक्सा दफ्तर  receipts of over $ 2.6 billion , making her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts .
Roberts had  become एक of the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in the संसार , टॉपिंग the हॉलीवुड पत्रकारों  annual `` power list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006 .
Her fee for 1990 's Pretty  स्त्री थी $ 300,000 ; in 2003 , वो थी सशुल्क an unprecedented $ 25 लाख लिये  her role in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ) .
As of 2010 , Roberts  's जाल लायक थी अनुमानित to be $ 140  million .
Roberts has been named one of People magazine  's `` 50 सबसे खूबसूरत लोगों in the संसार '' ग्यारह टाइम्स ,  tied with Halle Berry .
In 2011 , she was named one of the  `` 100 hottest महिलाओं of all-time '' by मेन  's Health .
In 2001 , Ladies Home Journal ranked her as  the 11th सबसे शक्तिशाली स्त्री in the संयुक्त राज्य .
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg ( born May 14  , 1984 ) is an अमरीकी कंप्यूटर प्रोग्रामर और अंतरजाल उद्योगों  .
He is best known as  एक of पाँच co-founders of the सोशल नेटवर्किंग जालस्थल  Facebook .
As of April 2013 , Zuckerberg is the chairman and chief  कार्यपालिका of फेसबुक , inc. और in 2013 उसके निजी माल थी अनुमानित to be  US $ 13 .3 billion .
Together with  उसके कॉलेज roommates और fellow हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो saverin , एंड्रयू mccollum , डस्टिन moskovitz और क्रिस  Hughes , Zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms .
The group then  introduced फेसबुक onto अन्य campuses देशभर और स्थानांतरित  to Palo Alto , California , United States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards .
In 2007 , at the age of twenty-three years  , zuckerberg became a अरबपति as a परिणाम of फेसबुक और the क्रमांक of फेसबुक उपयोक्ता  worldwide reached a total of one billion in 2012 .
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal disputes that were initiated by others in the group , who  claimed a share of the कम्पनी आधारित upon उनके भागीदारी दौरान the विकास phase of फेसबुक  .
चूंकि 2010 , zuckerberg रै महरूम नामित among the 100 wealthiest और सबसे influential  people in the world by Time magazine as a part of its Person of the Year accolade .
zuckerberg थी निभाई by कर्ता जेसी eisenberg in the 2010 हॉलीवुड फिल्मी the  Social Network in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed .
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620  transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों , सहित a कोर समूह of separatists  , to New England .
उनके स्टोरी is एक of travail और अस्तित्व in a हर्ष  New World environment .
framedthe
Committee of Ways and Means is the chief tax -writing  कमेटी of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of  Representatives .
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed  to serve on कोई अन्य हाउस समितियों जबतक वे लागू लिये a waiver इससे उनके  party 's congressional leadership .
The Committee has  क्षेत्राधिकार over सब कराधान , tariffs और अन्य revenue-raising उपायों , as खूब  as a number of other programs including:
Social  सुरक्षा
बेरोजगारी लाभ
medicare
Enforcement of  चाइल्ड support कानून
अस्थाई सहायता लिये मोहताज परिवारों  , a federal welfare program
Foster  परवाह और अपनाना  programs
the u.S. संविधान requires कि सब बिल्स regarding कराधान  must originate in the House of Representatives .
Since House procedure is that all bills  regarding कराधान जरूर go through इस कमेटी , the कमेटी is बहुत influential , as is इसके सीनेट  counterpart , the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance .
The Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by Charlie Rangel ,  जो था लिया a छोड़ of अनुपस्थिति as अध्यक्ष जबतक हाउस आचार उल्लंघनों यहूद  resolved .
However , his leave of  अनुपस्थिति as अध्यक्ष थी शासित to be a  resignation .
Pete Stark resigned as acting  अध्यक्ष , so sander levin आयोजित कि स्थिति जबतक the प्रारंभ of the 112th  Congress .
Dave Camp  became the कमेटी कुर्सी लिये the 112th कॉंग्रेस , बाद  the Republicans won control of the House in the 2010 election .
The blue whale (  balaenoptera musculus ) is a समुद्री स्तनधारी belonging to the  suborder of baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ) .
At in length and or  अधिक in वज़न , it is the largest ज्ञात एनिमल  to have ever existed .
Long and  slender , the ब्लू व्हेल 's देह can be विभिन्न शेड्स of bluish-grey dorsally और somewhat हल्का  underneath .
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North Pacific , B. m. intermedia  of the दक्षिणी समंदर और B. m. brevicauda ( भी ज्ञात as the सानो ब्लू व्हेल ) मिला in the भारतीय समंदर और दक्षिण प्रशांत  Ocean .
B. m. indica , found in the  भारतीय समंदर , may be another  subspecies .
As with other baleen whales , its diet  consists लगभग exclusively of छोटी crustaceans  known as krill .
ब्लू whales यहूद abundant in nearly सब the महासागर  on Earth until the beginning of the twentieth century .
For over a century , they were  hunted लगभग to extinction by whalers जबतक सुरक्षित by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय जातियाँ  in 1966 .
A 2002 report estimated  वहीँ यहूद 5,000 to 12,000 ब्लू whales विश्वव्यापी  , located in at least five groups .
More recent research into the  सानो subspecies suggests इस may be an underestimate  .
Before whaling , the largest population was in  the अंटार्कटिक , क्रमांकन लगभग 239,000 ( दायरा 202,000 to  311,000 ) .
There remain only much smaller (  around 2,000 ) एकाग्रता in प्रत्येक of the पूर्वी उत्तर प्रशांत , अंटार्कटिक  , and Indian Ocean groups .
There  हैं दो अधिक समूह in the उत्तर अटलांटिक , और at तनिक दो in the दक्षिणी  Hemisphere .
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var .  scolymus ) is a किस्में of a प्रजाति of thistle cultivated  as a food .
The edible matter is buds that  रूप भीतर the पुष्प heads पहले the पुष्प  come into bloom .
the कलियों go दूर or बदलें to a coarse , मुश्किल खाद्य रूप  when the flower blooms .
The  uncultivated or जंगली किस्में of the प्रजाति is  called a cardoon .
It is a perennial  संयंत्र देशी to the  Mediterranean region .
The United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $  100 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त राज्य  currency .
U.S. statesman , inventor , and diplomat  बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse  of the bill .
On the reverse of the  banknote is an चित्र of स्वतंत्रता  Hall .
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has been  मुद्रित चूंकि जुलाई 13 , 1969 , जब the denominations of $ 500 , $ 1,000 , $ 5,000 , और $ 10,000 यहूद रिटायर्ड  .
The Bureau of Engraving  और मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन of a $ 100 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 90 महीने ( 7.5 सालो ) पहले it  is replaced due to wear and tear .
The bills  हैं भी commonly referred to as `` benjamins '' , in सन्दर्भ to the उपयोग of बेंजामिन  Franklin 's portrait on the denomination , or `` C-Notes '' , based on the Roman numeral for 100 .
The bill is one of two  denominations मुद्रित आज कि करता नहीं विशेषता a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ; the अन्य is the  $ 10 bill , featuring Alexander Hamilton .
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the  रिवर्स , according to the u.S. ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और मुद्रण , shows लगभग  4:10 .
One hundred  hundred-dollar बिल्स हैं वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in mustard-colored  straps ( $ 10,000 ) .
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign  थी अनावरण on अप्रैल 21 , 2010 , और थी to be जारी to the पब्लिक on फ़रवरी 11 , 2011 , लकिन उत्पादन थी shut bas in दिसम्बर 2010  because as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw .
A vertical crease in the paper  reveals a रिक्त स्पेस on the विधेयक जब  pulled out .
In their replacement ,  और continuing the ऊँची माँग of इस denomination , the श्रेणी 2006a थी शुभारम्भ  retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ) .
On April 24 , 2013 , the Federal Reserve announced  the नई $ 100 विधेयक होता डालें परिसंचरण on अक्तूबर 8 , 2013  .
King David in  robes of a बीज़ान्टिन सम्राट  .
miniature इससे  the Paris Psalter .
दाउद ( ; आईएसओ 259-3 dawid ; ' ; दमदार 's : daveed ) according to the यहूदी बाइबल , थी the  second king of the United Kingdom of Israel , and according to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke , an ancestor of Jesus .
His life is conventionally  दिनाँक to c. 1040–970 bce , उसके शासनकाल over यहूदा c. 1010–1002 bce ,  and his reign over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE .
The Books of Samuel , 1 Kings , and 1 Chronicles are the only  स्त्रोत of सूचना on दाउद , हालांकि the tel डान stele ( दिनाँक c. 850–835 bce ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ) , पढ़ा as `` हाउस of दाउद '' , जिससे सबसे विद्वानों लो as पुष्टि of the अस्तित्व  in the mid-9th century BCE of a Judean royal dynasty called the House of David .
He  is चित्रित as a righteous किंग , हालांकि नहीं बगैर त्रुटियां , as खूब as an acclaimed योद्धा , संगीतकार , और कवि ,  traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms .
David is  सेंट्रल to यहूदी , ईसाई , और इस्लामी doctrine  and culture .
Biblical tradition  maintains कि a सीधा वंशज of दाउद होगा be the मसीहा  .
In Islam he is  माना to be a नबी और  the king of a nation .
Kathmandu (  ; ) is the पूंजी और largest शहरी agglomerate  of Nepal .
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu Metropolitan City at its  कोर , और इसके सिस्टर शहरों patan , kirtipur ,  Thimi , and Bhaktapur .
It also includes the recently recognized  शहरी क्षेत्रों of shankhapur , karyabinayak  , and Champapur .
Banepa , Dhulikhel , and Panauti are satellite  शहरी क्षेत्रों of काठमांडू स्तिथ बस बाहर the काठमांडू  valley .
Kathmandu  is भी ज्ञात informally as `` ktm '' or  the `` tri-city '' .
According to a census conducted in 2011 , Kathmandu  metropolis अलोन रै 975,453 निवासियों ; और the agglomerate रै a जनसांख्यिकी of अधिक than 2.5 लाख  inhabitants .
the महानगर नगर क्षेत्रफल is और रै a जनसांख्यिकी  density of 19,250 per km2 .
The city stands at an elevation of  लगभग in the bowl-shaped काठमांडू घाटी of सेंट्रल  Nepal .
It is surrounded by  चार प्रमुख kyu : shivapuri , phulchoki ,  Nagarjun , and Chandragiri .
Kathmandu Valley is part of three districts ( Kathmandu , Lalitpur ,  और भक्तपुर ) , रै the उच्चतम जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व in the देश , और is घर to परिचय a बारहवीं  of Nepal 's population .
दौरान rana और शाह eras , the नाम `` नेपाल '' referred तभी to the काठमांडू घाटी ; it  was what people who lived outside the valley called it .
During this  काल , अंग्रेजों इतिहासकारों पुकारा the घाटी itself `` नेपाल  Proper '' .
Today , Kathmandu is not  तभी the पूंजी of the संघीय लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of नेपाल , लकिन भी the मुख्यालय of the  Central Development Region of Nepal .
The  सेंट्रल प्रदेश comprises तीन zones :  Bagmati , Narayani , and Janakpur .
Kathmandu is  स्तिथ in the bagmati  Zone .
Kathmandu is  the गेटवे to पर्यटन  in Nepal .
It is also the nerve  बीच of the देश 's अर्थव्यवस्था  .
It has the most advanced infrastructure of any  शहरी क्षेत्रफल in नेपाल , और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था is केन्द्रित on पर्यटन , जिससे accounted लिये 3.8 % of नेपाल  's GDP in 1995–96 .
(  पर्यटन in काठमांडू अस्वीकृत thereafter दौरान a काल of राजनैतिक  unrest , but since then has improved . )
The city has a rich history , spanning nearly 2000  सालो , as inferred इससे inscriptions मिला in  the valley .
Religious and cultural festivities  रूप a प्रमुख भाग of the जीवनदान of लोगों residing  in Kathmandu .
सबसे of काठमांडू 's लोगों follow हिंदुत्व और अनेक अन्य  follow Buddhism .
There are people  of अन्य धार्मिक मान्यताओं as खूब , giving काठमांडू a  cosmopolitan culture .
नेपाली is the सबसे commonly बोला  language in the city .
Nepal  bhasa is the स्वदेशी भाषा बोला  by the Newar people .
Hindi is widely understood and English  is समझा by काठमांडू 's शिक्षित  residents .
The city 's  साक्षरता रेट is 98  % .
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur  patan ) और भक्तपुर हैं अभिन्न to काठमांडू 's सांस्कृतिक विरासत , पर्यटन उद्योग , और अर्थव्यवस्था ; इसलिए युनेस्को 's संसार विरासत साईट सूचियाँ सब तीन शहरों ' स्मारक  and attractions together under one heading , `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site `` .
Field hockey , usually referred to simply as hockey , is a team sport of the hockey family  जिससे is निभाई between दो टीमों of ग्यारह खिलाड़ी साथ हॉकी sticks और a मुश्किल , ठोस  plastic ball .
At the turn of the 21st century , the game is played globally ,  साथ particular लोकप्रियता throughout यूरोपीय , एशिया , महासागरीय , और दक्षिण अमेरिका – in जोड to होने  the national sport of Pakistan and India .
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada , the United  राज्य , और अन्य regions of the संसार जहाँ the खेल of बर्फ हॉकी is  more popular .
During play , goal keepers are the  तभी खिलाड़ी जो हैं अनुमत to टच the बॉल साथ कोई भाग of उनके देह ( साथ the एक्सेप्शन of a खिलाड़ी 's हाथ माना 'part of the स्टिक ' ) , साथ इस तभी applying भीतर the शूटिंग वृत्त (  also known as the D , or shooting arc , or just the circle ) , while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick .
The  टोली कि स्कोर the सबसे लक्ष्य by the समाप्त of  the match wins .
If the score is  tied at the समाप्त of the खेल , either a चित्रण is घोषित or the खेल goes into अतिरिक्त समय and/or a दंड  shootout , depending on the competition 's format .
The governing body of hockey is the International Hockey Federation ( FIH ) , with men and women being represented internationally in  प्रतियोगिताओं सहित the ओलम्पिक खेल , राष्ट्रमंडल खेल , हॉकी संसार कप , champions ट्रॉफी और जूनियर हॉकी संसार कप , साथ अनेक देशों  running extensive junior , senior , and masters ' club competitions .
The FIH is also responsible for organising the  हॉकी नियम फलक और विकासशील the नियम लिये the  sport .
a लोकप्रिय रूपांतर of फ़ील्ड हॉकी is अंदर हॉकी , जिससे differs in a क्रमांक of respects  while embodying the primary principles of hockey .
Indoor  हॉकी is a 6-a-side रूपांतर , साथ a फ़ील्ड जिससे  is reduced to approximately 40m × 20m .
With many of the rules  बाकी the वही , सहित रुकावट और फीट , वहीँ हैं अनेक कुंजी विसंगतियाँ - खिलाड़ी may नहीं उठाएँ the बॉल जबतक शूटिंग on लक्ष्य , खिलाड़ी  may not hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ) , and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off .
Ethan `` Cane  '' ashby ( né एटकिन्सन ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the अमरीकी  CBS soap opera The Young and the Restless .
He is portrayed by  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई कर्ता डेनियल गोडार्ड , जो originally auditioned लिये ब्रैड स्नाइडर on as the संसार turns लकिन थी अनुशंसित लिये a भूमिका on the यंग और  the Restless instead .
The role was to be  portrayed as an अमरीकी , लकिन गोडार्ड 's ऑस्ट्रेलियाई descent बहकावे the  character 's background .
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the episode airing on January 12 , 2007 as an  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई बारटेंडर in ढूंढें of उसके परिवार , a डेब्यू कि प्राप्त a मिश्रित जवाब .
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip  चांसलर ii ( donnelly rhodes ) और jill फोस्टर एबॉट ( जेस वाल्टन ) लकिन the अक्षर 's पृष्ठभूमि थी rewritten by मरिया एरिना  Bell in 2009 , reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ) .
हालांकि characterized as `` रहस्यमय '' , cane is `` वफ़ादार और समर्पित '' , जबकि गोडार्ड वर्णित the अक्षर as  a `` typical Australian , working-class kind of guy '' .
He  थी the पहला सदस्य of the एटकिन्सन परिवार to appear on the श्रेणी , followed by  his parents and identical twin brother .
Soon after his  डेब्यू , he became a अग्रणी अक्षर , a निर्णय praised by दर्शक  and critics .
The character  रै महरूम शामिल साथ एम्बर मूर ( adrienne frantz ) , क्लो मिशेल ( एलिज़ाबेथ hendrickson  ) and most notably Lily Winters ( Christel Khalil ) , a romance that garnered significant fan attention .
In 2009 , Cane and  लिली यहूद शादीशुदा ; वैश्विक bc होता बाद कॉल लिली the  love of Cane 's life .
The pair  था दो children , चार्ली  and Mattie Ashby .
In  2011 , the कर्ता थी fired , और cane थी शॉट to मौत  onscreen .
However , Goddard was rehired soon after viewers campaigned  लिये उसके वापसी , revealing कि cane 's एकसमान जुड़वा bhai थी  in fact the man who died .
This sacrificed  उसके विवाह to लिली , लकिन the युगल यहूद remarried on वेलेंटाइन  's Day in 2012 .
Goddard has been  widely acclaimed लिये उसके portrayal ; canyon न्यूज कहा कि he portrays the अक्षर honestly , और is `` सदा  dependable , on fire and exciting '' .
John  क्रिस्टोफर `` जॉनी '' डेप ii ( born जून 9 , 1963 ) is an अमरीकी  actor , film producer , and musician .
He has won  the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार और स्क्रीन अभिनेताओं  Guild award for Best Actor .
Depp rose to  prominence on the 1980s टेलीविज़न श्रेणी 21 जम्प गली , बनने a टीन  idol .
Dissatisfied with that status , Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the title character of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office success in  films ऐसे as sleepy खोखला ( 1999 ) , चार्ली और the चॉकलेट फैक्टरी ( 2005 ) , ऐलिस in वंडरलैंड ( 2010 ) , rango ( 2011 ) और the pirates of the caribbean फिल्मी श्रेणी (  2003–present ) .
He has collaborated with director  और dost टिम बर्टन in आठ films  ; the most recent being Dark Shadows ( 2012 ) .
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood , Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco ,  शिकारी S. थॉम्पसन in भय और loathing in लास वेगास , जार्ज जंग in उड़ा , और the बैंको डाकू जॉन dillinger in माइकल  Mann 's Public Enemies .
Films  featuring डेप have grossed over $ 3.1 अरब  at the United States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide .
He  रै महरूम मनोनीत लिये शीर्ष पुरस्कार अनेक टाइम्स , जीतना the बेहतरीन कर्ता पुरस्कार इससे the सुनहरी –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy ग्लोब्स –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy  for Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and from the Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl .
He also has garnered a sex symbol status in  अमरीकी सिनेमा , होने twice नामित as the `` sexiest man जिंदा ``  by People magazine in 2003 and 2009 .
He has been listed in the 2012 Guinness Book of World  रिकॉर्ड as the उच्चतम सशुल्क कर्ता , साथ $  75 million .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or  w3 , commonly ज्ञात as the वेब ) , is a प्रणाली of interlinked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़  accessed via the Internet .
With a web browser , one can view web pages that may contain text ,  बिंब , वीडियो , और अन्य मल्टीमीडिया , और navigate between उन्हें via hyperlinks  .
Using concepts from his earlier  हाइपरटेक्स्ट प्रणालियों जैसे enquire , अंग्रेजों इंजीनियर , कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक और at कि समय कर्मचारी of the cern , सर टिम berners-lee , अभी निदेशक of the संसार  Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau  प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और अभिगम सूचना of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of नोड in जिससे the उपयोक्ता can ब्राउज़ at होगा '' , और वे सरेआम introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in दिसम्बर  of the same year .
Mark Travis John  सांचेज़ ( born नवम्बर 11 , 1986 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the नई यॉर्क jets of the नेशनल  Football League ( NFL ) .
He was  drafted in the पहला गोलाकार of the 2009 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट as the पांचवां overall  selection by the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall .
he निभाई कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल at the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Southern California ( USC ) .
Sanchez grew up  in a well-disciplined और एथलेटिक परिवार  .
In the eighth grade ,  he began to खेल फ़ुटबॉल और सीख the intricacies of the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति , प्रशिक्षण  with his father , Nick .
A well-regarded prospect , Sanchez committed to  दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया following उसके कामयाब ऊँची स्कूल करियर in जिससे he led उसके टोली to a चैंपियनशिप  title during his final season .
At USC , Sanchez was relegated as the backup quarterback during his first  तीन सालो हालांकि he रोज़ to prominence due to उसके ब्रैड दिखावे on the फ़ील्ड in 2007 due to चोटों  suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty .
Sanchez also became  लोकप्रिय भीतर the जातियाँ due to  his Mexican-American heritage .
Named  the प्रारंभ in 2008 , सांचेज़ led यूएससी to a 12–1 रिकार्ड और  won the Rose Bowl against Penn State for which Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable Player award for his performance on offense .
Although many  माना उसे too अनुभवहीन , सांचेज़ घोषित उसके  intention to enter the 2009 NFL Draft .
He was selected by the Jets after  वे traded up साथ the क्लीवलैंड भूरा , और थी नामित the starting क्वार्टरबैक prior  to the start of the season .
Despite a subpar performance , Sanchez led the Jets to the AFC Championship Game , a losing effort to the Indianapolis Colts ,  बनने the चौथी रुकी क्वार्टरबैक in एनएफएल इतिहास to जीत उसके पहला playoff खेल और the दूसरी to जीत दो  playoff games .
In his second season , Sanchez  जारी to develop और led the jets to the playoffs और the टोली 's दूसरी लगातार afc चैंपियनशिप खेल जहाँ वे narrowly खोया to the पिट्सबर्ग  Steelers , 24–19 .
With the win over the New England  देशप्रेमी the सप्ताह prior , सांचेज़ tied चार अन्य quarterbacks लिये the दूसरी सबसे  post-season road victories by a quarterback in NFL history .
In leading the Jets to two consecutive  सम्मेलन championships , सांचेज़ joined क्वार्टरबैक बेन roethlisberger as the तभी दो quarterbacks in एनएफएल इतिहास to पहुँचें the सम्मेलन चैंपियनशिप  in their first two seasons in the league .
The next two seasons would be  a स्लोप लिये दोनो the टोली और सांचेज़  as they failed to reach the playoffs .
Fans  और मीडिया आलोचकों पुकारा लिये a struggling  Sanchez to be benched .
He  आखिरकार थी replaced towards  the end of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy .
Paul Avery ( April 2 , 1934December 10 , 2000 ) was an American  पुलिस रिपोर्टर , बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके कहानियां on the infamous सीरियल कातिल ज्ञात as the zodiac , और बाद लिये उसके कार्य on the पेट्रीसिया hearst  kidnapping .
A  छोटी submersible ac sump पंप साथ  a garden hose connector
A sump pump is a pump used to remove  जल कि रै संचित in a जल collecting sump जलाशय , commonly  found in the basement of homes .
The water may enter via the perimeter  नालों of a तहखाने waterproofing प्रणाली , funneling into the जलाशय or क्युकी of बरसात or प्राकृतिक मैदान जल , if the तहखाने  is below the water table level .
Sump  पंपों हैं प्रयुक्त जहाँ तहखाने बाढ़ happens regularly और to उपाय dampness जहाँ the  water table is above the foundation of a home .
Sump pumps send water away from a  हाउस to कोई प्लेस जहाँ it is no longer समस्यापूर्ण , ऐसे as a नगरपालिका तूफ़ान नाली or  a dry well .
Pumps may discharge to the  sanitary सीवर in पुरानी संस्थापना  .
Once considered acceptable , this practice  may अभी violate the plumbing कोड or नगरपालिका bylaws , क्युकी it can overwhelm the नगरपालिका मलजल उपचार  system .
Municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect  और reroute sump पंप निर्वहन दूर इससे sanitary  sewers .
जुर्माना may be imposed लिये  noncompliance .
अनेक homeowners have inherited उनके sump पंप configurations और do नहीं एहसास कि  the pump discharges to the sewer .
If the  निर्वहन is खिलाया to a laundry डूबना in the तहखाने  , it 's likely going to the sewer .
Usually hardwired into a home 's electrical system  , sump पंपों may have a बैटरी बैकअप  .
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some  पंपों , eliminating the need लिये विद्युत at the व्यय of using potable जल , potentially बनाना उन्हें अधिक महंगी  to operate than electrical pumps and creating an additional water disposal problem .
Since a sump basin may overflow if not constantly  उत्तेजित , a बैकअप प्रणाली is महत्वपूर्ण लिये मामले जब the प्रमुख शक्ति is आउट लिये prolonged अवधि  of time , as during a severe storm .
There  हैं generally दो प्रकार  of sump pumps — pedestal and submersible .
The pedestal pump 's motor  is आरोहित ऊपर the sump , जहाँ it is अधिक easily सर्विस , लकिन  is also more conspicuous .
The pump impeller is driven by a long ,  लंबवत एक्सटेंशन शाफ्ट और the impeller is in a स्क्रॉल आवास  in the base of the pump .
The submersible  पंप is entirely आरोहित अंदर the sump , और is विशेषकर sealed  to prevent electrical short circuits .
Sump pump systems  हैं भी utilized in औद्योगिक और वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग to कंट्रोल जल  table -related problems in surface soil .
An artesian  aquifer or आवधिक ऊँची जल तालिका हालात can कारण the मैदान  to become unstable due to water saturation .
As long as  the पंप कृत्यों , the सतह  soil will remain stable .
ये sumps हैं typically टेन फीट in गहराई or अधिक ; lined साथ corrugated मेटल  pipe that contains perforations or drain holes throughout .
They may include electronic control systems with  विज़ुअल और audible सचेतक और हैं प्रायः covered to prevent मलबा और पशु इससे गिरना  in .
Bleeding Kansas , Bloody Kansas or the Border War , was a series of violent political confrontations involving  anti-slavery free-staters और pro-slavery `` किनारा ruffian `` तत्व , कि took प्लेस in the कान्सास territory और the  neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861 .
At the heart of the  विरोध थी the सवाल of whether कान्सास होता डालें the संघ as a फ़्री राज्य or स्लेव राज्य  .
As such , Bleeding Kansas was a  प्रॉक्सी युद्ध between northerners और southerners over the समस्या  of slavery in the United States .
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by Horace  greeley of the नई यॉर्क ट्रिब्यून ; the कार्यक्रम it encompasses  directly presaged the American Civil War .
Congress had long  struggled to संतुलन the रूचि of pro-slavery शक्तियां और anti-slavery  forces .
The events later known as Bleeding  कान्सास यहूद नियत into गति by the kansas–nebraska अधिनियम of 1854 , जिससे nullified the मिसौरी सुलह और बजाय implemented the अवधारणा  of popular sovereignty .
An  ostensibly लोकतांत्रिक विचार , लोकप्रिय प्रभुता stated कि the निवासियों of प्रत्येक territory or  state should decide whether it would be a free or slave state ; however , this resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides .
At one point , Kansas had two separate  सरकारें , प्रत्येक साथ इसके अपना संविधान , हालांकि तभी एक थी federally  recognized .
On  जनवरी 29 , 1861 , कान्सास थी admitted to the संघ as a फ़्री राज्य , कम than तीन महीने पहले the बैटल of  Fort Sumter which began the Civil War .
Benzene is an organic  रासायनिक यौगिक साथ the आणविक सूत्र c6 h|hydrogen|h6  .
Its molecule is  रचित of 6 कार्बन अणु joined in a रिंग , साथ 1 हाइड्रोजन  atom attached to each carbon atom .
क्युकी इसके अणुओं contain तभी कार्बन और  hydrogen atoms , benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon .
Benzene is  a प्राकृतिक constituent of crude आयल , और is एक of the सबसे मौलिक  petrochemicals .
Benzene is an aromatic  हाइड्रोकार्बन और the दूसरी [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ) , a चक्रीय हाइड्रोकार्बन साथ  a continuous pi bond .
It is  sometimes abbreviated ph –h . बेंजीन is a colorless  and highly flammable liquid with a sweet smell .
It is mainly used as a  precursor to भारी रसायन , ऐसे as ethylbenzene और cumene , जिससे हैं उत्पादित on a अरब  kilogram scale .
Because it has a high octane number , it is an  महत्वपूर्ण घटक of गैसोलीन , composing a few प्रतिशत of इसके द्रव्यमान  .
Most  non-industrial अनुप्रयोग have महरूम सीमित  by benzene 's carcinogenicity .
giovanni virginio स्क्यापारेल्ली ( ; 14 कूच 1835 – 4 जुलाई 1910  ) was an Italian astronomer and science historian .
Wii  homebrew refers to the reuse of निन्टेंडो 's वी खेल कंसोल to  run software that has not been authorized by Nintendo .
it achieves इस by defeating the वी 's नक़ल सुरक्षा और  code signing measures .
In more general  शर्तें , वी homebrew refers to the उपयोग of the वी 's हार्डवेयर , accessories और तन्त्र लिये उद्देश्य  outside those intended by the manufacturer .
Original efforts  केन्द्रित on using the वी रिमोट as a इंगित यंत्र on अन्य ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों , or कार्यशील  web-based games in the built-in web browser .
Subsequent developments in games exploits , such as the `` Twilight hack `` ,  `` bannerbomb '' और इसके बाद अवतार `` letterbomb '' , `` तोड़ स्टेक '' , `` इंडियाना pwns '' , `` yu-gi-owned '' , `` bathaxx '' , और `` वापसी of the  Jodi '' , made installing the `` Homebrew Channel `` possible .
Hadley ( right )  discussing the 2006 israel-lebanon संकट  with Bush and Rice .
Stephen John Hadley ( born  फ़रवरी 13 , 1947 ) थी the 21st u.S. सहायक to the अध्यक्ष लिये नेशनल सुरक्षा अफेयर्स ( commonly referred as नेशनल सुरक्षा सलाहकार ) ,  serving under President George W. Bush .
Take identical growing plants and  दे उर्वरक to हाफ of उन्हें  .
If there are differences  between the निषेचित संयंत्र समूह और the unfertilized `` कंट्रोल '' समूह , ये मतभेद may  be due to the fertilizer .
A scientific  कंट्रोल is an प्रयोग or अवलोकन designed to  minimize the effects of variables other than the single independent variable .
This increases the  विश्वसनीयता of the परिणाम , प्रायः through a तुलना between  control measurements and the other measurements .
Scientific  नियंत्रण हैं a भाग of the  scientific method .
For example , during drug testing , scientists will try to control two groups to keep  उन्हें as एकसमान as संभावित , तब allow एक समूह to कोशिश the ड्रग  .
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by giving it to only half the plants in a garden :  the पौधे कि प्राप्त no उर्वरक हैं the कंट्रोल समूह , क्युकी वे स्थापित the बेसलाइन स्तर of विकास कि the fertilizer-treated पौधे होगा  be compared against .
Without a control group ,  the प्रयोग can नहीं determine whether the fertilizer-treated  plants grow more than they would have if untreated .
Ideally , all variables in an experiment  होगा be नियंत्रित ( accounted लिये by the कंट्रोल माप ) और none होगा  be uncontrolled .
In such an experiment ,  if सब the नियंत्रण कार्य as अपेक्षित , it is संभावित to conclude कि  the experiment is working as intended and that the results of the experiment are due to the effect of the variable being tested .
That is , scientific controls allow an  अन्वेषक to मेक a अर्जी जैसे `` दो परिस्थितियों यहूद एकसमान जबतक फ़ैक्टर x occurred  .
Since factor X is the only difference between  the दो परिस्थितियों , the नई निष्कर्ष थी  caused by factor X . ''
< <  रासायनिक तत्व आंकड़ा सन्दर्भ
John Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S . October 19 , 1735 )  – जुलाई 4 , 1826 ) थी the दूसरी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1797–1801 ) , having पहले परोसा as the पहला वाइस अध्यक्ष of  the United States .
An American  founding पिता , he थी a statesman , राजनयिक , और a अग्रणी एडवोकेट of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता  from Great Britain .
Well educated , he was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote  prolifically परिचय उसके प्रायः seminal विचार , दोनो in प्रकाशित works और in अक्षर to उसके बीवी और कुंजी adviser अबीगैल as खूब as to अन्य  Founding Fathers .
Adams came to  prominence in the जल्दी चरण of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति  .
A lawyer and  पब्लिक फिगर in बोस्टन , as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस , he निभाई  a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence .
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता in 1776 , और थी इसके प्राथमिक एडवोकेट in the कॉंग्रेस  .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe , he  helped negotiate the eventual सलाम सन्धि साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , और थी जिम्मेदार लिये obtaining vital सरकारी लोन इससे  Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist  और इतिहासकार , एडम्स largely लिखा the मैसाचुसेट्स संविधान in 1780 , जिससे साथ साथ उसके पहले विचार on सरकारी  , influenced American political thought .
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775 , he nominated George  वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief , और 25 सालो बाद मनोनीत जॉन मार्शल to be मुख्य इंसाफ of the  United States .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials  secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन 's वाइस अध्यक्ष और उसके अपना चुनाव in 1796 as the दूसरी अध्यक्ष  .
During his one term ,  he encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian republicans , as खूब as the प्रबल गुट in उसके अपना federalist  Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts , and built up the army and navy  विशेषकर in the फेस of an undeclared नवल युद्ध ( पुकारा the `` quasi-war `` ) साथ फ़्रांस  , 1798–1800 .
The major  accomplishment of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी थी उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध in the फेस  of Hamilton 's opposition .
In  1800 , एडम्स थी पराजित लिये re-election by थामस  Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts .
He  बाद resumed उसके दोस्ती साथ  Jefferson .
He and his  बीवी , अबीगैल एडम्स , संस्थापित an संपन्नता परिवार लकीर of राजनेता  , diplomats , and historians now referred to as the Adams political family .
Adams was the  पिता of जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स , the छठे  President of the United States .
His achievements have received greater recognition in  आधुनिक टाइम्स , हालांकि उसके योगदान यहूद नहीं initially as मनाये  as those of other Founders .
Adams was the first U.S. president to  reside in the भवन कि आखिरकार became ज्ञात as the  White House .
A Watt  भाप इंजन .
the भाप इंजन , fuelled primarily by कोयले , propelled the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति  in Great Britain and the world .
The Industrial Revolution was the  परिवर्तन to नई निर्माण प्रक्रियाओं कि occurred in the काल इससे परिचय 1760 to  some time between 1820 and 1840 .
This transition included going from hand production methods to  मशीने , नई रासायनिक निर्माण और आयरन उत्पादन प्रक्रियाओं , improved दक्षता of जल शक्ति , the increasing उपयोग of भाप शक्ति और विकास  of machine tools .
The transition also included the  बदलें इससे लकडी और अन्य bio-fuels to कोयले  .
The Industrial  क्रान्ति began in ब्रिटेन और भीतर a few दशकों स्प्रेड to पश्चिमी यूरोपीय  and the United States .
The Industrial Revolution marks  a प्रमुख turning पाइंट in इतिहास ; लगभग प्रत्येक पहलू of रोज़ जीवन थी  influenced in some way .
Most notably ,  औसत आय और जनसांख्यिकी began to प्रदर्शनी unprecedented  sustained growth .
In the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas , Jr. , `` For the  पहला समय in इतिहास , the जीना मानकों of the masses of ordinary लोगों have begun to undergo sustained विकास ... nothing remotely जैसे इस आर्थिक बर्ताव is उल्लेखित  by the classical economists , even as a theoretical possibility . ''
विलियम घंटी स्कॉट आयरन और  Coal , 1855-60
The period of time  covered by the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति varies साथ अलग  historians .
Eric  hobsbawm आयोजित कि it 'broke आउट ' in ब्रिटेन in the 1780s और थी नहीं fully लगा जबतक the 1830s or 1840s , जबकि  T. S. Ashton held that it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830 .
Some 20th-century historians such  as जॉन clapham और निकोलस crafts have argued कि the प्रक्रम of आर्थिक और सोशल बदलें took प्लेस धीरे और  the term revolution is a misnomer .
This is still a  विषय of बहस among इतिहासकारों  .
GDP per capita  थी broadly stable पहले the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति और the emergence  of the modern capitalist economy .
The Industrial Revolution  began an era of per-capita आर्थिक विकास  in capitalist economies .
Economic  इतिहासकारों हैं in अनुबंध कि the onset of the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति is the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण इवेंट in the इतिहास  of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants .
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and  1870 , जब technological और आर्थिक प्रगति gained आवेग साथ the increasing अपनाना of steam-powered नौकाएँ , जहाजों और रेल , the विशाल स्केल manufacture of यंत्र टूल्स और  the increasing use of steam powered factories .
जूलियट annmarie huddy ( born सितंबर 27 , 1969 ) , is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न न्यूज रिपोर्टर  , currently appearing on Fox News Channel .
This  सूची बाँधने u.S. शहरों by जमीन क्षेत्रफल ( नहीं सहित  bodies of water ) .
Total areas  ( सहित जल ) हैं भी दिए , लकिन नोट कि , जब क्रमित  by total area , a number of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger '' .
San  फ्रांसिस्को is an चरम उदाहरण ; जल makes  up nearly 80 % of its total area of 232 square miles ( 601 km2 ) .
Note also that in many cases a  नगर may be geographically विशाल primarily क्युकी इसके नगरपालिका सरकारी  has merged with the government of the surrounding county .
In some cases the county no longer exists , while in others the arrangement has formed  a संचित city–county ( or city- बरो in अलास्का , or city- मोहल्ला in louisiana )  .
These are shown in bold in the list below  ( लकिन नहीं सब उदाहरण may be indicated  ) .
** These are independent cities ,  अर्थ वे हैं नहीं a भाग of कोई  county .
The large intestine ( or bowel , colon ) is the  पिछला भाग of the digestive प्रणाली in vertebrate  animals .
Its function is to absorb  जल इससे the बाकी indigestible खाना पदार्थ , और तब to pass व्यर्थ बर्बाद सामग्री इससे  the body .
This article is primarily about the human  आंत , हालांकि the सूचना परिचय इसके प्रक्रियाओं हैं सीधे  applicable to most mammals .
the विशाल आंत consists of  the cecum , rectum and anal canal .
It starts  in the सही iliac प्रदेश of the pelvis , बस at or नीचे the सही कमर  , where it is joined to the bottom end of the small intestine .
From here it continues up the abdomen , then across the width of the  abdominal गुहा , और तब it turns bas , continuing to इसके endpoint at the गुदा  .
The large intestine is about long , which is about  one-fifth of the पूरे लंबाई of the intestinal कनाल  .
In Terminologia Anatomica the large intestine includes the  cecum , कोलन , मलाशय , और गुदा कनाल .
however , कुछ स्त्रोत exclude  the anal canal .
The Green Bay Packers are an American  फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in ग्रीन खाड़ी , विस्कॉन्सिन  .
They are members of the North Division of the National  फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग  ( NFL ) .
Green  खाड़ी is the third-oldest मताधिकार in the एनएफएल , having  been organized and playing in 1919 .
The  पैकर्स हैं the तभी non-profit , community-owned प्रमुख लीग पेशेवर  sports team in the United States .
The Packers are the last vestige  of `` छोटी कस्बा टीमों '' कि यहूद एकबार आम in  the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George  व्हिटनी calhoun , the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional टीमों in ग्रीन खाड़ी डेटिंग  back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a  semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध क्लब इससे around  Wisconsin and the Midwest .
They joined the  अमरीकी पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( apfa ) in 1921  , the forerunner to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Although Green Bay is the last NFL ``  छोटी कस्बा '' टोली , इसके लोकल प्रशंसक आधार और मीडिया extends into आसपास मिल्वौकी ; the टोली भी निभाई चयनित घर  games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The  ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स have जीती 13 लीग championships ( अधिक than कोई अन्य टोली in the एनएफएल ) , सहित नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories  —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ) .
The Packers have  long-standing , कड़वा rivalries साथ उनके nfc उत्तर ( formerly the nfc सेंट्रल ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  , the Chicago Bears , Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions .
The Bears-Packers  फंसने is एक of the oldest rivalries in एनएफएल इतिहास  , dating back to 1921 .
The San Fernando  घाटी ( locally ज्ञात as `` the घाटी '' ) is an urbanized घाटी स्तिथ in the लॉस एंजिल्स महानगर क्षेत्रफल of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त  States , defined by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it .
Home to 1.76 million  लोगों , it झूठ उत्तर of the larger और अधिक  populous Los Angeles Basin .
Nearly two  तिहाई of the घाटी 's जमीन क्षेत्रफल is भाग of the नगर  of Los Angeles .
The other incorporated cities in the valley are Glendale  , burbank , सैन फर्नांडो , छुपा पहाड़ियाँ और  Calabasas .
सैन फर्नांडो  Valley , Los Angeles
The exterior of the  वर्तमान संसार of coca-cola at pemberton प्लेस  .
The World of Coca-Cola ,  is a स्थाई प्रदर्शनी featuring the इतिहास of the coca-cola  Company .
Its well-known advertising as well as a host of entertainment areas and attractions , and is located  in अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया ( जहाँ the कम्पनी 's मुख्यालय हैं स्तिथ ) at pemberton प्लेस ( नामित in सम्मान of जॉन pemberton , the आविष्कारक of coca-cola ) .
as  भाग of जॉर्जिया 's  museums .
the complex located across Baker  गली इससे centennial ओलम्पिक पार्क कि is घर to the  Georgia Aquarium and future Center for Civil & Human Rights .
It opened to the public on May 24 , 2007 , relocating from  और replacing the असली प्रदर्शनी  .
Pretties is a  2005 विज्ञान fiction अनोखा और the दूसरी किताब of the  Uglies Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld .
It is set  in a भविष्य dystopian संसार in जिससे everyone is turned `` pretty '' by चरम कॉस्मेटिक  surgery upon reaching age 16 .
It tells  the स्टोरी of किशोरावस्था टैली youngblood जो विद्रोहियों विरूद्ध  society 's enforced conformity .
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26 ,  1971 ) is an अमरीकी स्त्री sentenced to जीवन in थाना लिये murdering  her children .
Born in Union , South  कैरोलिना , और a पूर्व छात्र of the विश्वविद्यालयों of दक्षिण कैरोलिना संघ , वो थी convicted on जुलाई 22 , 1995 लिये murdering उसके दो बेटे , 3-year-old माइकल  Daniel Smith , born October 10 , 1991 , and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith , born August 5 , 1993 .
The  मामला gained विश्वव्यापी ध्यान shortly बाद it विकसित , due to उसके claiming कि  a black man stole her car and kidnapped her sons .
वो बाद claimed कि वो suffered इससे दिमागी स्वास्थ्य मुद्दे कि  impaired her judgment .
According to the South Carolina Department of Corrections , Smith will be eligible for  पैरोल on नवम्बर 4 , 2024 , बाद सेवारत a  minimum of thirty years .
She is incarcerated  at दक्षिण कैरोलिना 's leath correctional  Institution , near Greenwood .
Mount McKinley ( also known as Denali taken from the Inuit Koyukon  athabaskan भाषा अर्थ `` the ग्रेट एक '' ) is the उच्चतम पहाड़ शिखर in the संयुक्त राज्य और in उत्तर  America with a summit elevation of above sea level .
at कुछ , the आधार to शिखर वृद्धि is माना the largest of  any mountain situated entirely above sea level .
Measured by  स्थलाकृतिक prominence , it is the तीसरा  most prominent peak after Mount Everest and Aconcagua .
स्तिथ in the अलास्का दायरा in the आंतरिक of us राज्य of अलास्का  , it is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve .
The first European to document sighting  the पहाड़ थी जार्ज वैंकूवर in 1794  .
in 1903 , जेम्स wickersham अंकित the पहला attempt at चढ़ाई mckinley  which was unsuccessful .
In 1906 , Frederick  कुक claimed the पहला ascent जिससे थी  later proven to be false .
The first verifiable ascent to McKinley 's summit  थी हासिल on जून 7 , 1913 by चढना हडसन stuck , हैरी karstens , वाल्टर हार्पर , और रॉबर्ट  Tatum .
In 1951 , Bradford  washburn pioneered the वेस्ट buttress रूट माना to be the safest और  easiest route and therefore the most popular currently in use .
The Honda  s600 is an ऑटोमोबाइल manufactured by  Honda .
It was  शुभारम्भ in कूच  1964 .
Available as a roadster – bearing strong resemblance to  the होंडा s500 – और as a fastback coupé – introduced in कूच 1965 – the s600  was the first Honda available in two trim levels .
During its production run up to 1966 , the  मॉडल स्टाइलिंग होता remain pretty much the वही , साथ the सबसे notable परिवर्तन coming to the सामने grille , बम्पर , और headlights  .
Powered by a DOHC , water-cooled ,  four-cylinder इनलाइन इंजन साथ चार carburetors , the इंजन  capacity was increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc .
The  इंजन उत्पादित at 8,500 आरपीएम और था  a top speed of .
With the convertible weighing in at mere , the extra  चादर मेटल of the कूप तभी added to the overall वज़न  .
Suspension  थी स्वतंत्र साथ sealed रोलर कड़ी  drive to each rear wheel .
the s600 थी the पहला द्रव्यमान  marketed Honda car .
First offered only in right-hand drive , it soon became  उपलब्धियाँ in left-hand ड्राइव to अपील to निर्यात  markets .
There were a few  pre-production s500s manufactured in बाएँ हाथ  drive , two or three even being shown in some early sales brochures .
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a special , upgraded package called the SM600 which included , among other items , special paint colors , exclusive badging , a  मानक रेडियो और स्पीकर , a खास एंटीना in the यात्री पक्ष सूर्य छज्जा , मानक reversing लाइट्स , a मानक सिगरेट हल्का , a मानक हीटर , बेहतर cushioned सीटे , और a detachable सीट track लिये जल्दी हटाना of the  passenger seat .
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964 ,  साथ उत्पादन चढ़ाई to 7,261 convertibles और 1,519 coupes  in 1965 .
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the  s800 ) साथ तभी 111 roadsters और 281 coupes , giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles और 1,800 coupes लिये the 3 साल स्पैन .
everybody hates क्रिस is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न काल sitcom कि depicts the teenage अनुभवों of हास्य क्रिस चट्टान  ( who is also the narrator ) while growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn , New York .
The show is set between 1983 and 1987 ; however , Rock  खुद थी a किशोरावस्था between 1978 और 1983  .
Rock grew up with a boy named Kenny  montero , जिसको he रै प्रायः referred to as the प्रेरणा  for a lot of the episodes .
In  अनेक साक्षात्कार , चट्टान रै वर्णित केनी as  the reason he got into comedy in the first place .
The show 's title  parodies the सीबीएस sitcom everybody loves रेमंड  .
Rock stated  : `` everybody loves रेमंड लकिन everybody  Hates Chris ! `` .
The show 's lead actors are  टायलर जेम्स विलियम्स , टेरी क्रू , tichina अर्नाल्ड , tequan रिचमंड , imani हकीम  , and Vincent Martella .
In Fall 2008 , the  the cw स्थानांतरित everybody hates क्रिस और the खेल  to the Friday night death slot .
The  चौथी ऋतु of the श्रेणी premiered शुक्रवार , अक्तूबर 3 , 2008 , at 8:00pm  Eastern/7:00PM Central .
on may 21 , 2009 , the cw घोषित कि it था  cancelled Everybody Hates Chris .
Prior to this , executive producer Chris  चट्टान घोषित कि the समाप्त of ऋतु 4 matched up साथ उसके अपना past—dropping आउट of ऊँची स्कूल  to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show .
Pleural effusion is  excess द्रव कि accumulates between the दो pleural परतों , the fluid-filled स्पेस कि surrounds  the lungs .
Excessive  amounts of ऐसे द्रव can impair श्वास by  limiting the expansion of the lungs during ventilation .
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an Old English heroic epic poem consisting of 3182  alliterative long लाइनों , नियत in scandinavia , commonly cited as एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण works of anglo-saxon साहित्य  .
It survives  in a सिंगल पाण्डुलिपि ज्ञात as the nowell  Codex .
Its composition by an  बेनाम anglo-saxon कवि is दिनाँक between the 8th  and the early 11th century .
In 1731 , the manuscript was badly damaged by a fire that swept through a building housing a  संग्रहण of मध्यकालीन पांडुलिपियों समवेत by सर रॉबर्ट ब्रूस कपास  .
The poem fell into obscurity for decades , and  इसके अस्तित्व किया नहीं become widely ज्ञात again जबतक it थी मुद्रित in 1815 in an संस्करण prepared  by the Icelandic-Danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin .
In the poem , Beowulf , a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia , comes to the help  of hroðgar , the किंग of the danes , जिनकी मीड हॉल ( in heorot ) रै महरूम अंतर्गत आक्रमण by a दानव ज्ञात as  Grendel .
After Beowulf slays  उसे , grendel 's माँ हमले the हॉल  and is then also defeated .
विजयी , बियोवुल्फ़ goes घर to geatland in स्वीडन  and later becomes king of the Geats .
After a period of fifty years has passed ,  बियोवुल्फ़ defeats a ड्रैगन , लकिन is fatally wounded in the बैटल .
After his  मौत , उसके सेवकों दफनाने उसे in a tumulus ,  a burial mound , in Geatland .
Shem  हैम और japheth by जेम्स  Tissot 1904 .
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic  : sām ; ge'ez : ሴም , sēm ; `` renown ; समृद्धि ; नाम '' ) थी एक of the बेटे of नूह in  the Hebrew Bible as well as in Islamic literature .
He is most popularly  regarded as the ज्येष्ठ बेटे , हालांकि कुछ परंपराओं लिहाज़ उसे as the दूसरी  son .
Genesis 10:21 refers to  सापेक्ष आयु of shem और उसके bhai japheth , लकिन साथ sufficient ambiguity  to have yielded different translations .
The verse is translated  in the kjv as `` unto shem भी , the पिता of सब the children of eber , the bhai of japheth the elder ,  even to him were children born . `` .
However , the New American Standard Bible gives , `` Also to  shem , the पिता of सब the children of eber , और the पुरानी bhai of japheth , children यहूद born  . ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad , ( but nearly 101 - see Chronology  नोट , ) दो सालो बाद the बाढ़ , बनाना उसे मुश्किल 99 at the समय the बाढ़ began ; और कि he जिया लिये another 500 सालो बाद इस , बनाना  his age at death 600 years .
The children of Shem were Elam  , asshur , arphaxad , lud , और aram , in जोड to  daughters .
Abraham , the patriarch  of the hebrews और arabs , थी एक of the वंशजों of arphaxad  .
Islamic literature  describes shem as एक of the believing बेटे  of Noah .
Some sources even identify Shem as a  नबी in उसके अपना सही और कि he थी the अगला नबी बाद उसके  father .
In one Muslim legend , Shem was  एक of the लोगों कि परमेश्वर बना यीशु उठाएगा  as a sign to the Children of Israel .
The 1st century historian Flavius Josephus ,  among अनेक अन्य , recounted the परंपरा कि ये पाँच बेटे यहूद the progenitors of the राष्ट्र of ईलम , assyria , chaldea  , Lydia , and Syria , respectively .
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages , as a subset of the  afro-asiatic भाषाएं , denoting the आम भाषाई विरासत of अरबी , aramaic , अक्कादी , ethiopic , यहूदी और  Phoenician languages .
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g. , B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah  25:6 ; संख्याएँ rabbah 4:8 . ) , shem is believed to have महरूम melchizedek , किंग of सलेम जिसको अब्राहम is अंकित to have मिले बाद the बैटल of the चार किंग्स  .
In a few of the many  extra-biblical स्त्रोत कि describe उसे ,  Shem is also credited with killing Nimrod , son of Cush .
Shem is mentioned in Genesis 5:32 , 6:10 ; 7:13 ;  9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; भी in 1 क्रॉनिकल्स 1:4  .
Geographic  identifications of flavius josephus , c. 100 ad ; japheth 's बेटे दिखाया in रेड , हैम 's बेटे in ब्लू , shem 's बेटे  in green .
Go Daddy or Go Daddy  समूह inc. is a privately आयोजित कम्पनी कि is primarily an  internet domain registrar and web hosting company .
Go Daddy Group Inc.  दायर लिये an ipo in 2006 , लकिन बाद रद्द it , due to `` मार्केट uncertainties  '' .
In addition to domain registration and hosting  go पापा भी बिकता e-business सम्बन्धित तन्त्र और सेवाएं  .
On June 24 , 2011 , The Wall Street Journal  reported कि private-equity firms केकेआर और चांदी झील साझेदार , साथ साथ a तीसरा निवेशकों , यहूद nearing a सौदे to  buy the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion .
On July 1 , 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR ,  चांदी झील साझेदार और प्रौद्योगिकी क्रॉसओवर ventures था बंद the सौदे  .
Although the purchase price was not officially  घोषित it थी reported to be $ 2.25 अरब , लिये 65 % of the कम्पनी  .
, bob पार्सन्स था ceded the सीईओ भूमिका of go  Daddy to Warren Adelman , who had been with the company for about 10 years .
The  andorran कोट of बाहें at the  Andorran parliament .
Andorra ( ; , ) , officially the  principality of अंडोरा ( ) , भी पुकारा the principality of the घाटियों of अंडोरा , ( ) , is a landlocked microstate in southwestern यूरोपीय , स्तिथ in  the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France .
It is the sixth  smallest स्वदेश in यूरोपीय , having an क्षेत्रफल  of and an estimated population of 85,000 in 2012 .
Its capital , Andorra la Vella , is the highest  पूंजी नगर in यूरोपीय , at an उन्नयन of ऊपर समुद्र स्तर  .
The official language is Catalan ,  हालांकि स्पेनी , पुर्तगाली , और फ्रेंच हैं भी  commonly spoken .
निर्मित अंतर्गत a चार्टर in 988 , the उपस्थित principality  was formed in 1278 .
It is known  as a principality as it is a साम्राज्य headed by दो co-princes – the बिशप  of Urgell and the President of France .
Andorra is a prosperous country mainly  क्युकी of इसके पर्यटन उद्योग , जिससे सेवाएं an अनुमानित 10.2 लाख विज़िटर  annually , and also because of its status as a tax haven .
It is not a member of the  यूरोपीय संघ , लकिन the यूरोपियन is the de facto करेंसी  .
The people of Andorra have the 4th highest human life  प्रत्याशा in the संसार — 82 सालो at जनम  .
The George Washington University ( GW , GWU , or George Washington ) is a  व्यापक निजी , coeducational शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C. .
It awards certificates ,  स्नातक डिग्री , मास्टर्स डिग्री , और phds आरपार अनेक  dozen disciplines .
The university was  चार्टर्ड by an अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस on फ़रवरी 9 , 1821 as the columbian  College in the District of Columbia .
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born October 21 ,  1980 ) is an अमरीकी socialite , टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व और occasional अभिनेत्री  .
In 2007 , she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex  टेप कि subsequently resulted in a अदालत awarding उसके $ 5 लाख ; बाद in कि वही साल  , she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians , and its subsequent  spin-offs , सहित कोर्टनी और किम लो नई यॉर्क और कोर्टनी और किम  Take Miami .
In 2010 , Kardashian was the highest-earning reality  स्टार , साथ अनुमानित आय of $ 6  million .
With sisters Kourtney and  khloé , कार्दशियन co-owns the फ़ैशन बुटीक कड़ी d-a-s-h  .
वो रै महरूम शामिल in the उत्पादन of अनेक  lines of clothing and fragrances .
In August 2011 , Kardashian married  बास्केट खिलाड़ी क्रिस humphries  in a widely publicized ceremony .
That October , Kardashian filed  लिये तलाक following 72 दिनों of विवाह  .
The move garnered significant backlash  इससे the मीडिया , जो labeled it a `` publicity  stunt '' .
After 536 days , Kardashian and Humphries reached an  अघोषित उपनिवेश at the लॉस एंजिल्स श्रेष्ठ अदालत , finalizing the तलाक in अप्रैल  2013 .
Aerial view  of oahu साथ freeways और राजमार्गों ,  3D computer-generated image
fly-around दौरे of the  island
Oahu ( ) or  oahu , ज्ञात as `` the महफ़िल प्लेस '' , is the तीसरा largest of the हवाई आइलैंड्स और the सबसे populous of  the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii .
The state capital ,  होनोलूलू , is on oahu 's southeast  coast .
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the  आइलैंड्स in kaneohe खाड़ी और बंद the पूर्वी ( windward ) coast , it रै a कुल जमीन क्षेत्रफल of , बनाना it the 20th largest  island in the United States .
in the महानतम आयाम , इस volcanic  island is long and across .
The  लंबाई of the shoreline  is .
The island is the result of two separate shield  ज्वालामुखी : waianae और koolau , साथ a व्यापक `` घाटी '' or काठी ( the सेंट्रल oahu मैदान ) between  them .
The highest point is Mt . Ka'ala  in the waianae दायरा , उठती to ऊपर समुद्र स्तर  .
The  आधार करेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य is the u.S. डालर , और is मुद्रित  on bills in denominations of $ 1 , $ 2 , $ 5 , $ 10 , $ 20 , $ 50 , and $ 100 .
At one time ,  however , u.S. करेंसी शामिल पाँच larger denominations  .
Notes in the denominations of $ 500 , $  1,000 , $ 5,000 , और $ 10,000 यहूद मुद्रित लिये सामान्य उपयोग , और a $ 100,000 नोट थी मुद्रित  for certain internal transactions .
British Honduras was a  अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश in सेंट्रल अमेरिका .
In 1981 , the colony gained full independence ,  और is अभी the स्वतंत्र स्वदेश of बेलीज़  .
First colonised by Spaniards  in the 17th सदी , the territory on the ईस्ट coast of सेंट्रल अमेरिका , दक्षिण of मैक्सिको , became a  British crown colony in 1862 .
In 1964  , it became a self-governing  colony .
Belize  became fully स्वतंत्र इससे the संयुक्त किंगडम  in 1981 .
Belize was the last  महाद्वीपीय कब्ज़ा of the संयुक्त किंगडम in the americas  .
Spelt , also known as  dinkel गेहूं , or hulled गेहूं , is an प्राचीन प्रजाति of गेहूं इससे the पांचवां  millennium BC .
Spelt  थी an महत्वपूर्ण स्टेपल in भाग of यूरोपीय इससे the कांस्य आयु to मध्यकालीन टाइम्स ; it अभी survives as a relict  crop in Central Europe and northern Spain and has found a new market as a health food .
Spelt is sometimes considered a subspecies  of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति आम गेहूं ( T. aestivum ) , in जिससे मामला इसके वनस्पति  name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp . spelta .
it is a hexaploid गेहूं , जिससे अर्थात् it  has six sets of chromosomes .
Sherlock Holmes ( or  ) is a fictional जासूस निर्मित by लेखक और चिकित्सक  Sir Arthur Conan Doyle .
A London-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities  किनारा on the fantastic , holmes is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके कुटिल लॉजिकल तर्क , उसके क्षमता to अपनाना लगभग कोई भेस , और उसके उपयोग of forensic विज्ञान  skills to solve difficult cases .
Holmes , who first  appeared in प्रकाशन in 1887 , थी प्रदर्शित  in four novels and 56 short stories .
The first novel , A  पढ़ाई in स्कारलेट , appeared in beeton 's क्रिसमस सालाना in 1887 और the दूसरी , the  Sign of the Four , in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890 .
The character grew tremendously in popularity with the first series of  छोटी कहानियां in the strand पत्रिका , शुरूआत साथ a कांड in बोहेमिया in 1891 ; further श्रेणी of छोटी कहानियां  and two novels published in serial form appeared between then and 1927 .
The  कहानियां कवर a काल इससे around  1880 up to 1914 .
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer , Dr. John H. Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier `` and `` The Lion 's  माने `` ) और दो अन्य हैं लिखा in the तीसरा व्यक्ति ( `` the mazarin स्टोन `` और `` उसके  Last Bow `` ) .
In two stories (  `` the musgrave अनुष्ठान `` और `` the ग्लोरिया स्कॉट `` ) , holmes tells वाटसन the  main story from his memories , while Watson becomes the narrator of the frame story .
The first and fourth  novels , a पढ़ाई in स्कारलेट और the घाटी of भय , प्रत्येक शामिल a long अंतराल of सर्वज्ञ  narration recounting events unknown to either Holmes or Watson .
The United States House of Representatives is  एक of the दो घरों of the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस ( a bicameral विधानमंडल )  .
It is  अक्सर referred to as  the House .
The  अन्य हाउस is the  Senate .
The composition and  शक्तियां of the हाउस हैं स्थापित in  Article One of the United States Constitution .
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its  बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट और further सहमत to by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले बनने विधि ( जबतक दोनो the हाउस और सीनेट  re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills , to impeach  officials , और to elect the u.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला वहीँ is no बहुमत in the चुनावी कॉलेज  .
Each U.S. state is  represented in the हाउस in proportion to इसके जनसांख्यिकी लकिन is हकदार to at तनिक एक प्रतिनिधि  .
the सबसे populous राज्य , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , फिलहाल  has 53 representatives .
The total number  of मतदान प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by विधि  at 435 .
Each  प्रतिनिधि serves लिये a two-year  term .
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives , who presides over the chamber  , is निर्वाचित by the सदस्यों of the हाउस , और is इसलिए traditionally the नेता of the हाउस लोकतांत्रिक caucus or the हाउस रिपब्लिकन  Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The House  meets in the दक्षिण wing of the  United States Capitol .
Jell-O is a brand name belonging  to u.s.-based kraft भोजन लिये a क्रमांक of जिलेटिन desserts , सहित फल gels ,  puddings and no-bake cream pies .
The brand 's  लोकप्रियता रै led to it होने प्रयुक्त as a जेनेरिक पद  for gelatin dessert across the U.S. and Canada .
Kennywood is an amusement park located in West Mifflin  , पेन्सिलवेनिया , a उपनगरीय of पिट्सबर्ग  .
The park first opened in 1898 as a `` trolley park ''  आकर्षण at the समाप्त of the mellon परिवार 's monongahela गली रेल  .
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and  एंड्रयू mcswigan और यूँ began the kennywood entertainment कम्पनी कि रै remained a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार  for over 100 years .
This traditional  मनोरंजन पार्क स्टिल रै structures और यात्राएँ डेटिंग वापस to इसके खोलने और the जल्दी  1900s .
Along with Rye Playland Park ,  it is एक of तभी दो मनोरंजन पार्क सूचीबद्ध in the नेशनल पंजीकरण of ऐतिहासिक स्थान  .
kennywood is स्वामित्व by kennywood entertainment कम्पनी , जिससे जबतक दिसम्बर 2007 थी a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार  owned by the Henninger and McSwigan families .
Kennywood Entertainment is now operated by California-based Palace  entertainment , a subsidiary of parques reunidos , an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मनोरंजन पार्क कम्पनी  based in Madrid , Spain .
Parque Reunidos is  in फेरे a subsidiary of candover निवेश , an निवेश निधि  based in the UK .
A Social Security  कार्ड जारी by the रेलरोड रिटायरमेंट फलक in 1943 to a  now deceased person .
In the United States , a Social Security number (  ssn ) is a nine-digit क्रमांक जारी to u.S. नागरिकों , स्थाई निवासियों , और अस्थाई ( working ) निवासियों अंतर्गत खण्ड 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the  Social Security Act , codified as .
The number is issued to an individual by  the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रशासन , an स्वतंत्र एजेंसी  of the United States government .
Its primary  purpose is to track individuals लिये सोशल सुरक्षा  purposes .
A  सोशल सुरक्षा क्रमांक may be प्राप्त by applying on रूप  SS-5 , `` Application for A Social Security Number Card '' .
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of art and design , especially visual art  और म्यूज़िक , जहाँ the कार्य is नियत आउट to expose the essence or पहचान of a विषय through eliminating सब non-essential फ़ॉर्म ,  features or concepts .
Minimalism is any design or style in which  the सरलतम और fewest तत्व हैं प्रयुक्त to बनाएँ the अधिकतम  effect .
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified with developments  in post–world युद्ध ii पश्चिमी आर्ट , सबसे strongly साथ अमरीकी विज़ुअल कला  in the 1960s and early 1970s .
Prominent artists associated with this  गति शामिल डोनाल्ड judd , जॉन mccracken , agnes मार्टिन , डान flavin , रॉबर्ट मॉरिस , ऐनी truitt , और फ़्रैंक  Stella .
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism  , और is प्रायः interpreted as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध अमूर्त अभिव्यंजनावाद और a सेतु to postminimal आर्ट practices  .
The terms have expanded to  encompass a गति in म्यूज़िक जिससे सुविधाएँ repetition और iteration , as in the रचनाएं of la मोंटे यंग , टेरी रिले , स्टीव reich , फिलिप  Glass , and John Adams .
Minimalist compositions are  sometimes ज्ञात as प्रणालियों  music .
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied  colloquially to designate anything कि is अतिरिक्त or stripped to इसके अनिवार्य  .
It has also been used to  describe the plays और novels of सैमुएल beckett , the films of रॉबर्ट bresson , the कहानियां  of Raymond Carver , and even the automobile designs of Colin Chapman .
The word  थी पहला प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेज़ी in the जल्दी 20th सदी to  describe the Mensheviks .
In chemistry and physics , Dalton 's law ( also called Dalton 's law of  आंशिक pressures ) राज्य कि the कुल दबाव exerted by the मिश्रण of non-reactive गैसों is बराबर to the योग of the  partial pressures of individual gases .
This empirical law was  observed by जॉन डाल्टन in 1801 और is सम्बन्धित  to the ideal gas laws .
Mathematically , the pressure of a  मिश्रण of गैसों can be पारिभाषित as the संकलन
or
where represent  the आंशिक दबाव of प्रत्येक  component .
It is assumed that  the गैसों do नहीं प्रतिक्रिया साथ  each other
जहाँ is the mole भिन्न of the i-th घटक  in the total mixture of n components .
The relationship below  provides a रास्ता to determine the आवाज़ आधारित विशेषज्ञता of कोई व्यक्तिगत गैसीय  component
where is the  विशेषज्ञता of the i-th घटक expressed in ppm  .
Dalton 's law  is नहीं exactly followed by रियल गैसों  .
Those  deviations हैं considerably विशाल at ऊँची pressures  .
in ऐसे शर्तें , the आवाज़ occupied by the अणुओं can become significant  compared to the free space between them .
In particular , the short average distances between molecules raises the intensity of intermolecular forces between  गैस अणुओं पर्याप्त to substantially बदलें the दबाव  exerted by them .
Neither of those effects  हैं माना by the आदर्श गैस मॉडल  .
This is a list of the largest United  राज्य कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों by नामांकन लिये कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों in the संयुक्त  States .
कया इस सूची  includes:
Colleges  और विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर the संयुक्त  States
University  प्रणालियों if the प्रणाली is चलाएं अंतर्गत a सिंगल  administration
Enrollment is  the योग of the headcount of undergraduate और  graduate students
Enrollment is  गिने by the एकीकृत post-secondary शिक्षा  System within the U.S. Department of Education .
Enrollment is the  12-month unduplicated headcount , indicating the क्रमांक of अद्वितीय विद्यार्थी जो attended  the university during the year .
कया इस सूची करता  not include:
Any indication of how many of the enrolled students are full or  भाग समय ( e.g. , कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों may have a ऊँची नामांकन , लकिन have  most students enrolled in only a single class )
For other lists that measure  विश्वविद्यालयों नामांकन , देखिए the देखिए भी खण्ड  below .
`` Right Round '' is a song performed by American  rapper flo rida , released as the सीसे सिंगल इससे उसके दूसरी स्टुडियो  album , R.O.O.T.S . ( 2009 ) .
The  सोंग सुविधाएँ अतिथि vocals  from Kesha .
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 and was  डिजिटली released on 10 फ़रवरी by पो लड़के entertainment और  Atlantic Records .
The song lyrically speaks of Flo Rida 's net ball  रेफरी enthusiasm , जबकि adapting the कोरस of the 1984 मुर्दे or जिंदा सोंग `` तुम स्पिन me गोलाकार  ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook .
according to एक of the सोंग 's लेखक , the  chorus refers to oral sex .
Kesha contributed guest vocals to the song , but  in the संयुक्त राज्य , दौरान the चलाएं atop the चार्ट , kesha थी uncredited  .
The song received mostly negative reviews  इससे आलोचकों , जो claimed it थी kitsch और  misogynistic .
however , it थी a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी , reaching  the top ten of the charts in nineteen countries worldwide .
In the United States , it became Flo Rida 's  दूसरी number-one सिंगल और broke the रिकार्ड लिये first-week बिक्री जब it थी released  to digital retailers .
the सिंगल 's accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो थी निर्देशित by मैल्कम  Jones and nominated for an MTV Video Music Award .
The song has been used in  अनेक फिल्मों , ऐसे as the hangover , the भद्दा  Truth and the Telugu movie Pilla Zamindar .
In the movie Pitch  पूर्ण , the सोंग is performed by the a cappella समूह  the Treblemakers .
The  मुख्य इंसाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य is the सिर of the संयुक्त राज्य संघीय अदालत प्रणाली ( the न्यायिक  branch of the federal government of the United States ) and the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United States .
The Chief Justice is one of nine  परम् अदालत justices ; the अन्य आठ हैं the संबद्ध  Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States .
From  1789 जबतक 1866 , the दफ्तर थी ज्ञात as the  Chief Justice of the Supreme Court .
The Chief Justice is  the उच्चतम न्यायिक अधिकारी in the देश , और अधिनियमों as a मुख्य प्रशासनिक अधिकारी लिये the संघीय न्यायालयों और as सिर of the न्यायिक सम्मेलन  of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts .
The Chief  इंसाफ भी serves as a प्रवक्ता  for the judicial branch .
The Chief Justice leads  the कारोबार of the परम् अदालत  .
He presides over  मौखिक वितर्क पहले the अदालत  .
When the court renders an  राय , the मुख्य justice—when in the majority—decides जो writes  the court 's opinion .
The Chief Justice also has significant  agenda-setting शक्ति over the अदालत 's बैठक  .
In the case of an impeachment of  a अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , जिससे रै occurred twice , the मुख्य इंसाफ presides over the  trial in the Senate .
In modern tradition , the Chief Justice has the ceremonial  ड्यूटी of administering the शपथ of दफ्तर of the अध्यक्ष  of the United States .
the पहला मुख्य इंसाफ  was John Jay .
The 17th and current Chief  इंसाफ is जॉन G. रॉबर्ट्स , jr  .
हिरण निकट prudhoe  Bay , 1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a  विशाल आयल फ़ील्ड on अलास्का 's  North Slope .
It is the largest oil field in  दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और in उत्तर अमेरिका , covering और originally  containing approximately of oil .
The amount of recoverable oil in the field is more than double  कि of the अगला largest फ़ील्ड in the संयुक्त राज्य , the ईस्ट टेक्सास आयल फ़ील्ड  .
The field is operated by  bp ; साझेदार हैं exxonmobil और conocophillips  Alaska .
Labor unions are legally recognized  as प्रतिनिधि of मजदूर in अनेक उद्योग in  the United States .
Their activity today centers on  सामूहिक bargaining over मजदूरी , लाभ , और working शर्तें लिये उनके सदस्यता , और on representing उनके  members in disputes with management over violations of contract provisions .
larger संघ भी typically engage in lobbying क्रियाएँ और  electioneering at the state and federal level .
Most unions in  अमेरिका हैं लकीर साथ एक of दो larger छतरियाँ संगठन : the afl-cio निर्मित in 1955 , और  the Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005 .
Both  एडवोकेट नीतियों और विधान on निमित्त of मजदूर in  the United States and Canada , and take an active role in politics .
The  afl-cio is विशेषकर चिंतित  with global trade issues .
In 2010 , the percentage of workers belonging to a union in the  संयुक्त राज्य ( or कुल मजदूर संघ `` घनत्व '' ) थी 11.4 % , compared to 18.4 % in जर्मनी , 27.5 % in कनाडा , और 70 % in  Finland .
Union  सदस्यता in the निजी सेक्टर रै गिरे  under 7 % — levels not seen since 1932 .
संघ allege कि employer-incited विपक्ष रै contributed  to this decline in membership .
The most prominent unions are  among पब्लिक सेक्टर कर्मचारी ऐसे as शिक्षक और पुलिस  .
Members of unions are  disproportionately पुरानी , पुरूष और निवासियों of the पूर्वोत्तर , the  Midwest , and California .
Union workers average 10-30 % higher pay than non-union in America after controlling for  व्यक्तिगत , जॉब , और मजदूर मार्केट विशेषताएँ  .
Although much smaller compared to their peak membership in the 1950s , American unions remain a prominent political factor ,  दोनो through mobilization of उनके अपना सदस्यताएँ और through coalitions साथ like-minded activist संगठन around मुद्दे ऐसे as अप्रवासी अधिकारों , व्यापार नीति , स्वास्थ्य परवाह , और जीना मजदूरी अभियान .
To fight  कथित नियोक्ता anti-union कार्यक्रम , संघ हैं फिलहाल वकालत नई `` कार्ड जाँच `` संघीय विधान कि होता आवश्यकता नियोक्ता to सौदेबाजी  with a union if more than 50 % of workers signed forms , or `` cards , '' stating they wish to be represented by that union .
The current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 days for a federally supervised  secret-ballot कर्मचारी referendum on the विषय  .
The economist Joseph Stiglitz has asserted that , ``  दमदार संघ have helped to reduce असमानता , whereas weaker संघ have बना it easier लिये ceos , sometimes working साथ मार्केट शक्तियां  that they have helped shape , to increase it . ''
The decline in unionization since WWII in the United  राज्य रै महरूम संबद्ध साथ a सुनाया वृद्धि in आय और  wealth inequality .
a ईसाई lacroix फ़ैशन  boutique
A boutique is a small shopping outlet , especially one  कि specializes in elite और फैशनेबल वस्तुएं ऐसे as कपडे  and jewelry .
The word is French for `` shop '' , via Latin from Greek  ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ) , `` storehouse  '' .
The term entered into everyday English use in the late 1960s  जब , लिये a ब्रैड काल , लंदन थी the केन्द्र of the फ़ैशन व्यापार  .
Carnaby Street and the Kings Road were  the फ़ोकस of much मीडिया ध्यान as घर to the सबसे फैशनेबल boutiques  of the era .
Now the East of London has been regenerated and more  boutiques पॉप up in फैशनेबल क्षेत्रों , ऐसे as मीनार सेतु सड़क .
It can also refer  to a specialised कड़ ऐसे as a बुटीक निवेश  bank or boutique law firm .
The word is often used to describe a property in the independent section of the  होटल मार्केट ( ऐसे as the rockwell in लंदन ) in अनुक्रम to फर्क themselves इससे larger जंजीरों ( ऐसे as हिल्टन  Hotels ) .
In  ऐसे मामले the establishments उद्देश्य to convey the विचार  that the operation is elite and highly specialised .
In the strictest sense of the word , boutiques would be one-of-a-kind  लकिन अधिक generally बोलना , कुछ जंजीरों can be referred  to as boutiques if they specialize in particular styles .
Recently , the term `` boutique '' has started being applied to  normally-mass-market वस्तुएं कि हैं either niche or उत्पादित in intentionally छोटी संख्याएँ at बहुत ऊँची  prices .
This may be referred to  as बुटीक निर्माण  .
For example , before the release of the Wii , a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo could become a `` boutique  video-game कम्पनी '' , producing खेल लिये niche ऑडियंस , बल्कि than trying to compete सीधे साथ microsoft  and Sony .
In the traditional luxury- watch industry Scalfaro International is considered  as the precursor in निर्माण और बिक्री of bespoke घड़ियाँ  .
The Swiss  कम्पनी उपयोग a अत्यधिक लचीली बुटीक निर्माण साईट , जिससे allows producing  small series or even unique timepieces .
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items and other truly one-of-a-kind items , others simply produce  t-shirts , स्टिकर , और अन्य फ़ैशन accessories in artificially छोटी रनों और बेचें उन्हें at unusually ऊँची कीमतें  .
In the  जल्दी 1990s सेलिना प्रारंभ निर्माण उसके अपना लकीर  of women 's clothing .
खोलने दो boutiques labeled as `` सेलिना इत्यादि . बुटीक & सैलून '' एक स्तिथ in कॉर्पस christi  and one located in San Antonio , Texas .
One  थी due to खोलें in monterrey , मैक्सिको  , in 1995 but due to her death it was not opened .
Around 1999 the San Antonio  स्थान बंद और the कॉर्पस christi  location was closed in 2009 .
In late 1990s  कुछ यूरोपीय खुदरा व्यापारियों विकसित the विचार of tailoring a दूकान towards a जीवनशैली थीम , in the रूप of `` अवधारणा  stores '' , which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments .
एक of the पहला अवधारणा स्टोर्स थी 10 कोरसो como in मिलान , इटली followed by  Colette in Paris and Quartier 206 in Berlin .
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters , D-A-S-H , and The Gap , Australian chain  billabong और , हालांकि कम आम , रब & टेलर adapted to the अवधारणा स्टोर ट्रेंड बाद  2000 .
Navy  संघीय क्रेडिट संघ ( or नेवी संघीय ) is a क्रेडिट संघ headquartered in वियना , वर्जिनिया  , chartered and regulated under the authority of the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government .
Navy Federal is the largest  प्राकृतिक सदस्य ( or खुदरा ) क्रेडिट संघ in the संसार , दोनो in एसेट  size and in membership .
As of  सितंबर 2012 , नेवी संघीय था over $ 50 अरब usd in एसेट  , and over 4 million members .
Stevland Hardaway  मॉरिस ( born may 13 , 1950 as stevland hardaway judkins ) , ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम स्टीवी अचरज , is an अमरीकी सिंगर , songwriter , और multi-instrumentalist  , a child prodigy who developed into one of the most creative musical figures of the late 20th century .
Blind  चूंकि shortly बाद जनम , अचरज हस्ताक्षरित साथ motown 's tamla लेबल at the आयु of ग्यारह , और  continues to perform and record for Motown to this day .
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` Superstition `` , `` Sir Duke  `` , `` तुम हैं the सनशाइन of my जीवन `` और `` i बस पुकारा to कह i प्रेम तुम  `` .
Well known albums also include Talking Book ,  innervisions और गीतों in the कुंजी of जीवन  .
He has recorded more than thirty U.S. top ten hits and received  twenty-two ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , the सबसे कभी awarded to a पुरूष सोलो  artist .
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for  राजनैतिक कल्याणकारी , सहित उसके 1980 अभियान to मेक मार्टिन लूथर किंग , jr. 's जन्मदिवस a अवकाश  in the United States .
In 2009 , Wonder was  नामित a संयुक्त राष्ट्र मेसेंजर  of Peace .
In 2008 , Billboard magazine released a  सूची of the hot 100 all-time शीर्ष कलाकारों to celebrate the us singles चार्ट  's fiftieth anniversary , with Wonder at number five .
By  लोकप्रिय vote , स्टीवी थी inducted into the soulmusic हॉल  of Fame at SoulMusic.com in December 2012 .
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '' , for mind/soul , and -ωσις `` -osis '' , for abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind , and is a generic  मनोरोग पद लिये a दिमागी राज्य प्रायः वर्णित as involving a `` घाटा of सम्पर्क साथ वास्तविकता `` .
People suffering from psychosis  हैं वर्णित as psychotic  .
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder ,  दौरान जिससे मति और delusions , सकल उत्तेजना or बेहोशी और  impaired insight may occur .
the पद `` मनस्ताप '' is बहुत व्यापक और can औसत anything इससे अपेक्षाकृत  normal aberrant experiences through to the complex and catatonic expressions of schizophrenia and bipolar type 1 disorder .
Moreover a wide variety of central  बेचैन प्रणाली रोगों , इससे दोनो बाह्य substances और आतंरिक  physiologic illness , can produce symptoms of psychosis .
This  led अनेक पेशेवर to कह कि मनस्ताप is नहीं विशिष्ट  enough as a diagnostic term .
Despite this , `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in  सामान्य बर्ताव ( ऋणात्मक लक्षण ) और अधिक commonly to विविध प्रकार of मति or delusional मान्यताओं ( e.g  . grandiosity , delusions of persecution ) .
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '' , whereas  एक exhibiting बहुत हल्का लक्षण could be वर्गीकृत in the श्रेणी of an `` attenuated  psychotic risk syndrome '' .
An excess in  dopaminergic signalling is traditionally linked to the धनात्मक लक्षण of मनस्ताप  , especially those of schizophrenia .
This is thought to occur through a mechanism of  aberrant salience of पर्यावरणीय stimuli  .
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ;  meta-analyses of placebo-controlled ट्रायल of ये दवाएँ , however , दिखाएँ either no significant अंतर between ड्रग और placebo , or a बहुत छोटी प्रभाव आकार , suggesting कि the pathophysiology of मनस्ताप is much अधिक  complex than an overactive dopamine system .
People  experiencing मनस्ताप may प्रदर्शनी कुछ व्यक्तित्व परिवर्तन  and thought disorder .
Depending  on इसके गंभीरता , इस may be accompanied by असामान्य or विचित्र बर्ताव , as खूब as परेशानी साथ सोशल  interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities .
General  grievous is a fictional अक्षर in the स्टार युद्धों  universe .
a पुनरावर्ती विपक्षी , he is the परम् कमांडर of the confederacy of  Independent Systems , a political faction of planetary systems waging war on the Galactic Republic .
Trained in  सब सात फ़ॉर्म of lightsaber कॉम्बैट by गिनती dooku , he is a निष्ठुर  and powerful warrior devoted to Jedi 's destruction during the Clone Wars .
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi body count  होता संकेत the आकाशगंगा to दे उसे the उपनाम the knightslayer  .
हालांकि the बदनाम जेडी slayer थी the होने in the आकाशगंगा दौरान the क्लोन युद्धों जो था मारे the सबसे  Jedi in single combat , he did not hesitate to flee from battles he knew he would lose .
Statistics  खेल an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in summarizing बेसबॉल प्रदर्शन और evaluating  players in the sport .
Since the flow of a  बेसबॉल खेल रै प्राकृतिक ब्रेक to it , और सामान्यतः खिलाड़ी अधिनियम individually बल्कि than performing  in clusters , the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics .
Statistics have been  रखा लिये पेशेवर बेसबॉल चूंकि the सृष्टि of the नेशनल  League and American League , now part of Major League Baseball .
Many statistics are also  उपलब्धियाँ इससे बाहर of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल , इससे लीग ऐसे as the नेशनल संघ  of Professional Base Ball Players and the Negro Leagues .
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts destitute pea pickers  in कैलिफ़ोर्निया , centering on फ्लोरेंस ओवेन्स थॉम्पसन , आयु 32 , a माँ of सात children , in nipomo  , California , March 1936 .
USA  सालाना रियल जीडीपी इससे 1910–60 , साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट  Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The unemployment  रेट in the us 1910–1960 , साथ the सालो  of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression  थी a कठोर विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक अवसाद in the दशक  preceding World War II .
The timing of the Great Depression  varied आरपार राष्ट्र , लकिन in सबसे देशों it प्रारंभ in 1930 और  lasted until the late 1930s or middle 1940s .
It was  the longest , सबसे फैली , और deepest अवसाद of the  20th century .
In the 21st century , the Great  अवसाद is commonly प्रयुक्त as an उदाहरण of कैसा दूर the संसार 's अर्थव्यवस्था  can decline .
The depression originated in the U.S. , after the fall in stock prices that began around  सितंबर 4 , 1929 , और became विश्वव्यापी न्यूज साथ the भण्डार मार्केट क्रैश of अक्तूबर 29 , 1929 ( ज्ञात  as Black Tuesday ) .
The  ग्रेट अवसाद था विनाशकारी प्रभाव in देशों  rich and poor .
निजी आय , कर आय , profits और कीमतें dropped , जबकि अंतरराष्ट्रीय  trade plunged by more than 50 % .
Unemployment in the U.S. rose to 25  % , और in कुछ देशों रोज़ as ऊँची  as 33 % .
Cities all  around the संसार यहूद hit मुश्किल , विशेषकर those निर्भर on  heavy industry .
Construction  थी वस्तुतः halted in अनेक देशों  .
Farming  और ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों suffered as क्रॉप कीमतें गिरी by लगभग  60 % .
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate sources of jobs , areas  निर्भर on प्राथमिक सेक्टर उद्योग ऐसे as नकदी cropping , खनन  and logging suffered the most .
कुछ economies प्रारंभ to रिकवर  by the mid-1930s .
In many countries , the negative effects of the  ग्रेट अवसाद lasted जबतक the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध ii  .
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ) , also known as a premature ventricular complex ,  ventricular असामयिक संकुचन ( or जटिल or देवालय ) ( vpc ) , ventricular असामयिक ताल ( vpb ) , or ventricular extrasystole ( ves ) , is a अपेक्षाकृत आम इवेंट जहाँ the धड़कन is initiated by purkinje मछली  in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node , the normal heartbeat initiator .
The electrical events of the heart detected by  the electrocardiogram allow a पीवीसी to be easily विशिष्ट इससे a सामान्य  heart beat .
A PVC may be perceived  as a `` छोड़ा ताल `` or लगा as palpitations  in the chest .
In a normal heartbeat , the ventricles  अनुबंध बाद the atria have helped to भरण उन्हें by contracting ; in इस रास्ता the ventricles can पंप a maximized राशि  of blood both to the lungs and to the rest of the body .
In a  पीवीसी , the ventricles अनुबंध पहला और पहले the atria have optimally भर the ventricles  with blood , which means that circulation is inefficient .
However , single beat PVC arrhythmias do not  प्रायः पोज़ a खतरे और can be asymptomatic in स्वस्थ individuals  .
William Gary Busey  ( born जून 29 , 1944 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात as गेरी busey , is an  American film and stage actor , and artist .
He has appeared in a variety of films , including Lethal Weapon , Point Break ,  और अंतर्गत घेरा , as खूब as अतिथि दिखावे on gunsmoke , वाकर , टेक्सास रेंजर , विधि &  Order , and Entourage .
He  थी मनोनीत लिये an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये  Best Actor in 1978 for his role in The Buddy Holly Story .
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ) , is a  बहुराष्ट्रीय सन्धि लिये the purpose of establishing अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानकों लिये बौद्धिक प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों प्रवर्तन .
The agreement aims to establish an international legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods , generic  दवाइयाँ और कापीराइट infringement on the अंतरजाल , और होता बनाएँ a नई शासी देह बाहर मौजूदा forums , ऐसे as the संसार व्यापार संगठन , the संसार बौद्धिक प्रॉपर्टी संगठन  , or the United Nations .
The agreement was signed in October 2011 by  ऑस्ट्रेलिया , कनाडा , जापानी , मोरक्को , नई जीलैंड , सिंगापुर , दक्षिण कोरियाई ,  and the United States .
In 2012 , Mexico , the  यूरोपीय संघ और 22 देशों जिससे हैं सदस्य राज्य  of the European Union signed as well .
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally  स्वीकृत ) the अनुबंध , जिससे होता आइये into फ़ोर्स in देशों कि ratified  it after ratification by six countries .
Supporters have described  the अनुबंध as a जवाब to `` the बढ़ाएँ in वैश्विक व्यापार of नकली  goods and pirated copyright protected works '' .
Trades  संघ representing मजदूर in the म्यूज़िक , फिल्मी और tv उद्योग और विशाल बौद्धिक property-based संगठन ऐसे as the गति चित्र  Association of America and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America were active in the treaty 's development .
Opponents say the convention adversely affects  आधारभूत अधिकारों सहित स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति और गोपनीयता .
ACTA has also been criticised by Doctors Without  सीमायें लिये endangering अभिगम to दवाइयाँ in विकासशील देशों  .
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups , developing countries and the  सामान्य पब्लिक इससे the अनुबंध 's negotiation प्रक्रम और it रै महरूम वर्णित as नीति laundering by आलोचकों सहित the इलेक्ट्रॉनिक frontier न्यास और the entertainment  Consumers Association .
The signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in  the इस्तीफा in विरोध of the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट 's नियुक्त मुख्य अन्वेषक , rapporteur कादर आरिफ  , as well as widespread protests across Europe .
In 2012 the  newly-appointed rapporteur , अंग्रेजों mep दाउद मार्टिन , अनुशंसित विरूद्ध the सन्धि , stating : `` the intended लाभ  of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties '' .
On 4 July 2012 , the European Parliament rejected the agreement  in plenary सत्र , साथ 478 मतदान विरूद्ध the सन्धि , 39 in पक्ष और 165 meps abstaining  .
FAW semi-trailer  ट्रक in चीन
ट्रैक्टर साथ पक्ष डम्प ट्रेलर  semi-trailer
A tractor with  an auto-transport semi-trailer  .
semi-trailer ट्रक साथ स्लीपर पीछे  the cab .
A semi-trailer  ट्रक is an articulated गाडी कि consists of a towing इंजन , ज्ञात as a ट्रैक्टर in the संयुक्त राज्य और ट्रक in अनेक अन्य स्थान , संलग्न to एक  or more semi-trailers to carry freight .
It is also known as a transport in Canada , prime mover in Australia , semi ,  tractor-trailer , ट्रक और ट्रेलर , ट्रांसफ़र ट्रक , 18-wheeler , mack ट्रक , बिग रिग in the संयुक्त राज्य , or artic , छोटी लिये articulated लारी , in ब्रिटेन  and Ireland .
A semi-trailer does not  ट्रेल completely पीछे the towing गाडी , लकिन is संलग्न at a पाइंट कि is बस आगे  of the rear-most axle of the towing unit .
इस is किया so कि a भिन्न of the वज़न  of the trailer is carried by the prime mover .
This  व्यवस्था अर्थात् कि दोनो ट्रैक्टर और semi-trailer होगा have a distinctly  different design than a rigid truck and trailer .
the पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स हैं a पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित  in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the American  फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल )  .
Founded in ,  the स्टीलर्स हैं the oldest मताधिकार in  the AFC .
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl titles ( six ) , won more AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and  निभाई in ( पंद्रह ) और hosted अधिक ( ग्यारह ) सम्मेलन चैंपियनशिप खेल than कोई अन्य afc or  NFC team .
The  स्टीलर्स share the रिकार्ड लिये सबसे सुपर कटोरी दिखावे साथ the डलास  Cowboys ( eight ) .
The Steelers won  उनके सबसे हाल चैंपियनशिप , सुपर कटोरी  XLIII , on February 1 , 2009 .
The Steelers were  संस्थापित as the पिट्सबर्ग pirates on जुलाई 8 , 1933 , by आर्ट रूनी , लेने इसके असली नाम इससे the बेसबॉल टोली  of the same name , as was common practice for NFL teams to do at the time .
The ownership of  the स्टीलर्स रै remained भीतर the रूनी परिवार चूंकि इसके founding  .
The current owner is Art 's son , Dan  रूनी , जो रै दिए much कंट्रोल of the  franchise to his son Art Rooney II .
Long one  of the एनएफएल 's फ्लैगशिप टीमों , the स्टीलर्स आनंद  a large , widespread fanbase nicknamed Steeler Nation .
The Steelers currently play their home games at Heinz Field on Pittsburgh 's  उत्तर पक्ष in the उत्तर shore पड़ोस , जिससे भी होस्ट the विश्वविद्यालयों of पिट्सबर्ग पैंथर्स  .
Built in  2001 , the स्टेडियम replaced तीन नदियाँ स्टेडियम जिससे  hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons .
Prior to Three Rivers ,  the स्टीलर्स था निभाई उनके खेल in pitt स्टेडियम और फोर्ब्स  Field .
Three different  kinds of गेहूं और rye आटा
Flour is  a चूर्ण जिससे is बना by पीस खाद्यान्न दाने  , or other seeds or roots ( like Cassava ) .
It is the main  संघटक of ब्रैड , जिससे is a स्टेपल खाना लिये अनेक संस्कृतियों , बनाना the उपलब्धता of पर्याप्त आपूर्तियाँ of आटा a  major economic and political issue at various times throughout history .
Wheat flour is one of the most important foods in European , North American  , मध्य पूर्वी , भारतीय और उत्तर अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों , और is the धमक संघटक in सबसे of उनके शैलियाँ of  breads and pastries .
While wheat is the most  आम आधार लिये आटा , मकई आटा रै महरूम महत्वपूर्ण in mesoamerican भोजन चूंकि प्राचीन  times , and remains a staple throughout the Americas .
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread  in much of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय , और राइस can भी be प्रयुक्त in आटा , हालांकि इस is अपेक्षाकृत  uncommon .
Heart rate is the  क्रमांक of heartbeats प्रति ईकाई of समय , typically  expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ) .
Heart rate can vary as the body 's need to absorb oxygen and  excrete कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड परिवर्तन , ऐसे as दौरान शारीरिक कसरत , नींद , बीमारी , or as a  result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system  stimulants ऐसे as amphetamines बढ़ाएँ दिल रेट  .
सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली depressants or sedatives decreases the दिल रेट ( अलावा इससे कुछ विशेषकर अजीब ones साथ  equally strange effects , such as ketamine which can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ) .
There are many  तरीके in जिससे the दिल रेट speeds up or  slows down .
Most involve stimulant-like  endorphins और हार्मोन होने released in the दिमाग , अनेक of जिससे हैं  those that are 'forced'/'enticed ' out by the ingestion and processing of drugs .
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume , one  of the physiological तरीके to उद्धार अधिक ऑक्सीजन to an अंग is to बढ़ाएँ दिल रेट to परमिट रक्त to pass by the अंग अधिक  often .
सामान्य resting दिल दरों दायरा  from 60-100 bpm .
Bradycardia is  पारिभाषित as a resting दिल रेट नीचे 60  bpm .
However , heart  दरों इससे 50 to 60 bpm हैं आम among स्वस्थ लोगों और do  not necessarily require special attention .
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm , though persistent  बाकी दरों between 80-100 bpm , मुख्यतः if वे हैं उपस्थित दौरान नींद , may be लक्षण of हाइपरथाइरॉयडिज़्म or रक्ताल्पता  ( see below ) .
Catherine II 's carved  , चित्रित और gilded राजतिलक कोच ( hermitage  Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people , usually  horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) और सेडान कुर्सियां हैं excluded , चूंकि वे हैं wheelless वाहनों  .
The carriage is especially designed  लिये निजी यात्री उपयोग और लिये सुकून or लालित्य , हालांकि कुछ हैं भी  used to transport goods .
It may be light , smart  और तेज़ or भारी , विशाल  and comfortable .
Carriages normally have suspension using leaf  स्रोतों , अंडाकार स्रोतों ( in the 19th सदी ) or चमड़े दीर्घकाय  .
A public passenger vehicle  होता नहीं प्रायः be पुकारा a carriage – शर्तें  for such include stagecoach , charabanc and omnibus .
Working vehicles such as  the ( four-wheeled ) वैगन और ( two-wheeled ) कार्ट share महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the इतिहास  of the carriage , as is the fast ( two-wheeled ) chariot .
The 2004  भारतीय समंदर भूकंप थी an undersea megathrust भूकंप कि occurred at 00:58:53 utc on संडे , 26 दिसम्बर 2004 ,  with an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra , Indonesia .
The quake  itself is ज्ञात by the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ as the sumatra–andaman  earthquake .
The resulting  सुनामी थी दिए विभिन्न names , सहित the 2004 भारतीय समंदर सुनामी , दक्षिण एशियाई सुनामी  , Indonesian tsunami , and the Boxing Day tsunami .
The earthquake was  caused by subduction और triggered a श्रेणी of विनाशकारी tsunamis साथ the coasts of सबसे landmasses bordering the भारतीय समंदर  , killing over 230,000 people in fourteen countries , and inundating coastal communities with waves up to high .
It  थी एक of the deadliest प्राकृतिक  disasters in recorded history .
Indonesia was the hardest-hit  देश , followed by श्री लंका , इण्डिया , और थाईलैंड  .
साथ a परिमाण of mw 9.1–9.3 , it is the तीसरा largest  earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph .
The earthquake had the longest duration  of faulting कभी observed , between 8.3 और 10 मिनट्स  .
It caused the entire planet  to हिलना as much as और triggered अन्य भूकंप  as far away as Alaska .
Its epicentre was between Simeulue and  मेनलैंड इंडोनेशिया .
The  दुर्दशा of the प्रभावित लोगों और देशों prompted a विश्वव्यापी  humanitarian response .
In all , the worldwide community  दान अधिक than $ 14 अरब ( 2004 us $ ) in humanitarian  aid .
Steam rising from the  nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन in आइसलैंड .
geothermal उर्जा is थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न और  stored in the Earth .
Thermal  उर्जा is the उर्जा कि  determines the temperature of matter .
The Geothermal  उर्जा of the धरती 's क्रस्ट originates इससे the असली गठन of the ग्रह ( 20 %  ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is the difference in temperature  between the कोर of the ग्रह और इसके सतह , ड्राइव a निरन्तर conduction of थर्मल  energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal  originates इससे the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge ) , अर्थ धरती , और θερμος ( thermos  ) , meaning hot .
At the core of the  धरती , थर्मल उर्जा is निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय और temperatures may पहुँचें  over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ) .
Heat  conducts इससे the कोर to surrounding  cooler rock .
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt ,  बनाना मैग्मा संवहन upward चूंकि it is हल्का than the ठोस  rock .
The magma heats rock and water  in the क्रस्ट , sometimes up to 370 °c  ( 700 °F ) .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating  चूंकि प्राचीन रोमन टाइम्स , लकिन it is अभी बेहतर ज्ञात लिये विद्युत  generation .
विश्वव्यापी , परिचय 10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal  power is online in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct  geothermal हीटिंग क्षमता is संस्थापित लिये ज़िला हीटिंग , स्पेस हीटिंग , स्पा , औद्योगिक  processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
geothermal शक्ति is लागत प्रभावी , विश्वसनीय , चिरस्थायी , और environmentally दोस्ताना , लकिन रै historically महरूम सीमित to क्षेत्रों निकट tectonic  plate boundaries .
Recent technological  अग्रिम have dramatically विस्तारित the दायरा और आकार of सुगठित संसाधन , विशेषकर लिये अनुप्रयोग ऐसे  as home heating , opening a potential for widespread exploitation .
Geothermal  कुएं रिलीज ग्रीनहाउस गैसों फंस गहन भीतर the धरती , लकिन ये emissions  are much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels .
As a result , geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate  वैश्विक वार्मिंग if widely तैनात in प्लेस of चट्टान fuels  .
The  धरती 's geothermal संसाधन हैं theoretically अधिक than पर्याप्त to सप्लाई मानवता 's उर्जा  needs , but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and  खोजी लिये गहन संसाधन is  very expensive .
Forecasts for the future of geothermal  शक्ति निर्भर on assumptions परिचय प्रौद्योगिकी , उर्जा कीमतें , subsidies ,  and interest rates .
Pilot  कार्यक्रम जैसे eweb 's ग्राहक ऑप्ट in ग्रीन शक्ति कार्यक्रम दिखाएँ कि ग्राहक  would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal .
But as a result of government assisted research and  उद्योग अनुभव , the लागत of generating geothermal शक्ति रै decreased by 25 %  over the past two decades .
In 2001 , geothermal energy cost  between दो और टेन सेंट प्रति सम्पात .
The term cubic foot is an Imperial and US  प्रथागत ( non- मीट्रिक ) ईकाई of आवाज़ , प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त राज्य और the संयुक्त  Kingdom .
It is defined as the volume of a cube with  पहलू of एक पैर ( 0.3048 m ) in  length .
To  गणना घन फीट गुणा लंबाई x चौडाई x  height .
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation : , Southern Vietnamese pronunciation : ) ;  19 may 1890 – 2 सितंबर 1969 ) , born nguyễn sinh cung और भी ज्ञात as nguyễn tất thành और nguyễn ái quốc , थी a वियतनामी कम्युनिस्ट क्रांतिकारी नेता जो थी प्रधान मंत्री  ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ) .
He  थी a कुंजी फिगर in the न्यास of the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945 , as खूब as the people’s फौज of वियतनाम  ( PAVN ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War .
He led the Việt Minh independence movement from 1941 onward , establishing the communist  -नियमd लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of वियतनाम in 1945 और defeating the फ्रेंच संघ in 1954 at the बैटल  of Điện Biên Phủ .
He officially stepped down from power in 1955 due to health problems , but remained a highly visible figurehead and  प्रेरणा लिये those वियतनामी लड़ लिये उसके cause—a संयुक्त , कम्युनिस्ट vietnam—until उसके  death .
After the war , Saigon , capital of the  गणतंत्र of वियतनाम , थी renamed hồ chí मिन्ह नगर  .
All Roads  सीसे घर is a विशेषता फिल्मी released on सितंबर 26  , 2008 .
Directed by Dennis Fallon , it stars  पीटर बॉयल , patton oswalt , जेसन लंदन , vivien cardone , वैनेसा शाखा ,  Peter Coyote , Stephen Milton , and Allan Kayser .
The movie was  फिल्माया in और around कान्सास  City , Missouri .
The movie  बना इसके संसार प्रीमियर जनवरी 27 at the  Santa Barbara International Film Festival .
The film has also  recently महरूम in अनेक फिल्मी त्यौहार , और रै  received bad reviews .
Peter Boyle died  पहले the फिल्म 's रिलीज  .
It was the  पिछला फिल्म he appeared  in .
Sales taxes in the United States are  कर लगाई on the बिक्री or पट्टे of goods और सेवाएं in the  United States .
While no national general sales tax  exists , the संघीय सरकारी levies अनेक नेशनल चयनात्मक बिक्री कर  on the sale or lease of particular goods and services .
Furthermore , forty-five states , the  ज़िला of कोलंबिया , और गुआम थोपने सामान्य बिक्री कर कि लागू to the बिक्री or पट्टे of सबसे goods और कुछ सेवाएं  , and states also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services .
States may  भी प्रतिनिधि to लोकल सरकारें the प्राधिकार to थोपने अतिरिक्त सामान्य  or selective sales taxes .
Sales tax is  गणना by multiplying the खरीदें  price by the applicable tax rate .
Tax rates vary widely by  क्षेत्राधिकार और दायरा इससे कम  than 1 % to over 10 % .
Sales tax is collected by  the विक्रेता at the समय of  sale .
Use tax is  स्वः assessed by a खरीदार जो रै नहीं सशुल्क बिक्री कर  on a taxable purchase .
Unlike the value  added कर , a बिक्री कर is imposed तभी  once , at the retail level .
However , in cases where items are  बेची at खुदरा अधिक than एकबार , ऐसे as प्रयुक्त गाड़ियाँ , the बिक्री कर can be चार्ज  on the same item indefinitely .
The definition of retail sales and  कया goods और सेवाएं हैं taxable  vary among the states .
nearly सब jurisdictions provide numerous श्रेणी  of goods and services that are exempt from sales tax , or taxed at reduced rates .
The purchase of goods for  further manufacture or लिये पुनर्विक्रय is uniformly exempt इससे बिक्री कर .
Most jurisdictions exempt food sold in  किराना स्टोर्स , नुस्खा medications , और अनेक agricultural आपूर्तियाँ  .
Sales taxes , including those  imposed by लोकल सरकारें , हैं generally administered at the राज्य स्तर .
States imposing sales tax  आवश्यकता खुदरा विक्रेता to collect कर इससे ग्राहक , संचिका रिटर्न  , and remit the tax to the state .
प्रक्रियात्मक नियम  vary widely .
Sellers  generally जरूर collect कर इससे in-state purchasers  unless the purchaser provides an exemption certificate .
सबसे राज्य allow or आवश्यकता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  remittance .
A  सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण ईकाई ( cpu ) , भी referred to as a सेंट्रल प्रोसेसर ईकाई , is the हार्डवेयर भीतर a कंप्यूटर कि carries आउट the निर्देश of a कंप्यूटर  program by performing the basic arithmetical , logical , and input/output operations of the system .
The term  रै महरूम in उपयोग in the कंप्यूटर उद्योग at तनिक  since the early 1960s .
The form , design , and implementation of  cpu have बदला over the कोर्स of उनके इतिहास  , but their fundamental operation remains much the same .
A computer can have more  than एक cpu ; इस is पुकारा multiprocessing  .
Some integrated  circuits ( ics ) can contain अनेक cpu on a सिंगल चिप ; those ics हैं  called multi-core processors .
Two typical components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic  ईकाई ( alu ) , जिससे performs गणित और लॉजिकल परिचालन , और the कंट्रोल ईकाई ( cu ) , जिससे extracts निर्देश इससे मेमोरी और  decodes and executes them , calling on the ALU when necessary .
Not all computational systems rely  on a सेंट्रल प्रसंस्करण ईकाई  .
An array processor or vector processor  रै अनेक समानांतर कम्प्यूटिंग तत्व , साथ no  one unit considered the `` center '' .
In  the वितरित कम्प्यूटिंग मॉडल , समस्याएं हैं हल by a  distributed interconnected set of processors .
rfid चिप अगला to a  grain of rice .
This chip contains a  radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड कुंडली कि modulates an बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र a coded पहचान क्रमांक जब  queried by a reader device .
This small type is incorporated in  उपभोक्ता उत्पाद , और implanted in पालतु  , for identification purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा , लिये the उद्देश्य of automatically identifying और ट्रैकिंग टैग संलग्न to  objects .
The tags contain  electronically भंडारित सूचना  .
Some tags are powered and read at short  सीमाएँ ( a few मीटर ) via चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड ( इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  induction ) .
Others use a local power  सोर्स ऐसे as a बैटरी , or else have no बैटरी लकिन collect उर्जा इससे the interrogating em फ़ील्ड , और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder to emit  microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery powered tags may  operate at सैंकड़ों of मीटर  .
Unlike a bar code , the tag does not  necessarily need to be भीतर लकीर of sight of the रीडर , और may be अंतःस्थापित in the tracked ऑब्जेक्ट  .
RFID  टैग हैं प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग  .
An RFID tag attached to an automobile  दौरान उत्पादन can be प्रयुक्त to track इसके प्रगति  through the assembly line .
दवाएँ can be tracked  through warehouses .
Livestock and pets may  have टैग injected , allowing धनात्मक पहचान  of the animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing , possessions , or even implanted  भीतर लोगों , the सम्भावना of पढना personally-linked सूचना बगैर सहमति रै उठाया गोपनीयता चिंताएं  .
Overtime is the  राशि of समय किसी works परे  normal working hours .
Normal  घंटों may be संकल्पित  in several ways:
by  कस्टम ( कया is माना स्वस्थ  or reasonable by society ) ,
by practices  of a दिए व्यापार or  profession,
by legislation,
by अनुबंध between नियोक्ता  and workers or their representatives .
Most nations have overtime labor laws designed to  dissuade or prevent नियोक्ता इससे forcing उनके कर्मचारी to कार्य excessively long घंटों  .
These laws may take into account other considerations than the  humanitarian , ऐसे as preserving the स्वास्थ्य of मजदूर so कि वे may continue to be उत्पादक  , or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy .
One common approach to regulating overtime is to  आवश्यकता नियोक्ता to अदा मजदूर at a उच्चतर hourly रेट लिये ओवरटाइम कार्य  .
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay  भी if नहीं obliged to do so by विधि , विशेषकर if वे मानना कि वे फेस a पिछड़ा झुकने सप्लाई वक्र  of labour .
Overtime pay rates can cause workers to work  longer घंटों than वे होता at a चपटा hourly रेट  .
Overtime  कानून , attitudes toward ओवरटाइम और घंटों of कार्य vary greatly इससे देश to देश और between  different economic sectors .
कल्पना of कड़ी between पृष्ठों on a विक  using a force-directed layout .
Force-directed graph drawing algorithms are a  क्लास of algorithms लिये आरेखण रेखाचित्र in an aesthetically pleasing  way .
Their purpose is to  स्थिति the नोड of a आलेख in two-dimensional or three-dimensional स्पेस so कि सब the किनारे हैं of अधिक or कम बराबर लंबाई और वहीँ हैं as few क्रासिंग किनारे as संभावित , by assigning शक्तियां among the नियत of किनारे और the नियत of नोड  , based on their relative positions , and then using these forces either to simulate the motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize their energy .
While graph  आरेखण can be a मुश्किल प्रॉब्लम , force-directed algorithms , होने शारीरिक simulations ,  usually require no special knowledge about graph theory such as planarity .
Purchasing power (  sometimes retroactively पुकारा समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) is the राशि of goods or सेवाएं कि can be खरीदा  with a unit of currency .
For example , if you had taken one  डालर to a स्टोर in the 1950s , तुम होता have महरूम समर्थ to ख़रीदे a वृहद क्रमांक of वस्तुएं than तुम होता आज , indicating  that you would have had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s .
Currency can be either a commodity money , like gold or silver  , or fiat करेंसी , or free-floating market-valued करेंसी जैसे us डॉलर  .
As Adam Smith noted , having money gives one  the क्षमता to `` कमांड '' अन्य ' मजदूर , so खरीदना शक्ति to कुछ extent is शक्ति over अन्य लोगों , to the extent कि  they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency .
If one 's monetary income stays the same , but the price  स्तर increases , the खरीदना शक्ति of कि आय  falls .
Inflation does not always imply  गिरना खरीदना शक्ति of एक 's धन आय चूंकि it may वृद्धि तेज़  than the price level .
A higher real income means a  उच्चतर खरीदना शक्ति चूंकि रियल आय refers to the आय समायोजित  for inflation .
For a price  अनुक्रमणिका , इसके मान in the आधार साल is प्रायः सामान्यीकृत to a मान  of 100 .
The purchasing power of a unit of currency , say  a डालर , in a दिए साल , expressed in डॉलर of the आधार साल , is 100/p , जहाँ p is  the price index in that year .
So , by  परिभाषा the खरीदना शक्ति of a डालर decreases  as the price level rises .
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount C of money , t years into the  भविष्य , can be computed साथ the सूत्र लिये the उपस्थित मान :
where in this  मामला i is an assumed भविष्य सालाना  inflation rate .
Education in South Korea is viewed as being crucial for success and  प्रतियोगिता is नतीजतन बहुत heated और fierce  .
A central administration oversees the  प्रक्रम लिये the शिक्षा of children इससे किंडरगार्टन to the तीसरा और फाइनल  year of high school .
Mathematics , science , Korean ,  अंग्रेज़ी , और सोशल अध्ययन हैं generally माना  to be the most important subjects .
Normally physical education is not  माना महत्वपूर्ण as it is नहीं recognised , by the generally अकादमिक elitist दक्षिण कोरियाई populace , as शिक्षा और इसलिए अनेक स्कूलों  lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics .
दक्षिण कोरियाई थी the पहला देश in the संसार to provide high-speed अंतरजाल  access to all primary , junior , and high schools .
Although South Korean  विद्यार्थी प्रायः रैंक अत्यधिक on अंतरराष्ट्रीय तुलनात्मक आकलन जब compared to विद्यार्थी of सबसे पश्चिमी शिक्षा प्रणालियों , the दक्षिण कोरियाई शिक्षा  system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation .
The South Korean education system is rather notably strict and  overly संरचित as compared to इसके counterparts in सबसे  Western societies .
Also , the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools (  hagwon [ 학원 ] ) , जिससे too emphasise on passive memorisation , as opposed to conceptual समझना , in विद्यार्थी हैं criticised  as a major social problem .
The My Lai Massacre ( , ; , , or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between 347 and 504  निहत्थे नागरिकों in दक्षिण वियतनाम on कूच 16 , 1968 , by संयुक्त राज्य फौज सैनिको of `` चार्ली '' कम्पनी of 1st बटालियन , 20th infantry रेजीमेंट  , 11th Brigade of the Americal Division .
Victims included women  , मेन , children , और infants  .
Some of the women were gang-raped  और उनके लाशें यहूद बाद मिला to be mutilated और अनेक महिलाओं यहूद allegedly  raped prior to the killings .
While 26 U.S. soldiers were initially charged with  दण्ड offenses लिये उनके क्रियाएँ at mỹ lai , तभी दूसरी लेफ्टिनेंट विलियम calley , a प्लाटून नेता in चार्ली  Company , was convicted .
Found guilty of killing 22  ग्रामीणों , he थी originally दिए a जीवन वाक्य ,  but only served three and a half years under house arrest .
The  नरसंहार took प्लेस in the hamlets of my lai और my  Khe of Son My village .
the इवेंट is भी ज्ञात as the  Son My Massacre , especially in the Vietnamese state media .
The U.S. military  codeword लिये the `` viet cong stronghold '' थी `` pinkville  '' .
The incident prompted  वैश्विक आक्रोश जब it became पब्लिक ज्ञान  in 1969 .
The massacre also increased domestic  विपक्ष to the u.S. भागीदारी in the वियतनाम  War .
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried to halt the massacre and protect the  wounded यहूद initially denounced by अनेक u.s . कांग्रेसियों as traitors  .
They  प्राप्त नफ़रत मेल और मौत खतरे और मिला mutilated  animals on their doorsteps .
The three were later widely praised and decorated by  the फौज लिये उनके वीर क्रियाएँ  .
The hijackers in the September 11 attacks were  19 मेन संबद्ध साथ al-qaeda , और 15 of the 19 यहूद नागरिकों of  Saudi Arabia .
Others were from  मिश्र , लेबनान , और  the UAE .
The  hijackers यहूद व्यवस्थित into चार टीमों , प्रत्येक led by a pilot-trained hijacker साथ चार `` मांसपेशी hijackers  '' who were trained to help subdue the pilots , passengers , and crew .
The first hijackers to arrive in the United States  यहूद खालिद al-mihdhar और nawaf al-hazmi , जो  settled in the San Diego area in January 2000 .
They were followed by three hijacker-pilots , Mohamed Atta ,  marwan al-shehhi , और ziad jarrah जल्दी in the गर्मियाँ of 2000 to undertake उड़ान  training in south Florida .
The fourth  hijacker-pilot , hani hanjour , arrived in सैन डिएगो  in December 2000 .
The rest of  the `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' arrived in the वसन्त और जल्दी गर्मियाँ of 2001 , बस  months before the September 11 attacks .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ) , also  transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ) , थी a धार्मिक , राजनैतिक , और सैन्य नेता इससे मक्का जो एकीकृत अरब into a सिंगल धार्मिक  polity under Islam .
He is believed  by मुसलमान और bahá'ís to be  a messenger and prophet of God .
Muhammad is almost  universally माना by मुसलमान as the पिछला नबी  sent by God for mankind .
non-muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the संस्थापक of  Islam .
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an  अनछुए असली monotheistic आस्था of आदम , नूह , अब्राहम , मूसा , यीशु , और अन्य नबियों  .
born in परिचय 570 ce in the arabian नगर of मक्का , he थी अनाथ at an जल्दी आयु और  brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly as a merchant ,  as खूब as a गड़रिये , और थी पहला शादीशुदा  by age 25 .
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding  kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ , he बाद reported कि it थी वहीँ , at आयु 40 , कि he  received his first revelation from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly ,  proclaiming कि `` परमेश्वर is एक `` , कि पूरा `` आत्मसमर्पण '' to उसे ( lit  .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable  to परमेश्वर , और कि he खुद थी a नबी और  messenger of God , in the same vein as other Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few  अनुसरणकर्ता जल्दी on , और थी मिले साथ  hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly .
To escape persecution , Muhammad  भेजा कुछ of उसके अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in मक्का migrated to मदीना  ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
This event , the Hijra , marks the beginning of  the इस्लामी पंचांग , जिससे is भी ज्ञात as the hijri पंचांग  .
In Medina ,  मुहम्मद संयुक्त the जनजातियों अंतर्गत  the Constitution of Medina .
After eight years of fighting with the  meccan जनजातियों , उसके अनुसरणकर्ता , जो by तब था grown to 10,000 , took कंट्रोल of मक्का in the largely शांतिपूर्ण  Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the  pagan मूर्तियों in the नगर और तब भेजा उसके अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to नष्ट सब  of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
In  632 , a few महीने बाद returning to मदीना इससे the विदाई यात्राएं  , Muhammad fell ill and died .
By the time of  उसके मौत , सबसे of the arabian प्रायद्वीप था परिवर्तित to islam , और he था संयुक्त अरब into  a single Muslim religious polity .
The  खुलासे ( or ayah , lit  .
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad  reported receiving जबतक उसके मौत – रूप the आयतें of the कुरान , regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द  of God '' and around which the religion is based .
besides the कुरान , मुहम्मद 's जीवन ( सिरा ) और परंपराओं ( सुन्नत  ) are also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law .
They  discuss मुहम्मद और अन्य नबियों of islam साथ reverence , adding the phrase सलाम be upon उसे  whenever their names are mentioned .
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times  यहूद largely ऋणात्मक , appraisals in आधुनिक इतिहास have महरूम दूर  less so .
This is a list of  टेबल of the सत्यापित oldest लोगों in the संसार in ordinal  rank , such as oldest person or oldest man .
In these tables , a supercentenarian is considered 'verified '  if उसके or उसके अर्जी रै महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically सौदे in आयु शोध , ऐसे as the जराविद्या  Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest  unambiguously प्रलेखित इंसान जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997  ) , who died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She met  विंसेंट वैन gogh जब वो  was 12 or 13 .
This led  to न्यूज मीडिया ध्यान in 1985 , बाद  Calment turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found documentation for  calment 's आयु , परे कोई उचित सवाल , in the रिकॉर्ड of उसके देशी नगर , arles , फ़्रांस  .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any  अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype in the methodology लिये verifying the आयु of the  world 's oldest people .
The longest undisputed  जीवनकाल लिये पुरूष supercentenarians is कि of jiroemon  Kimura , who currently lives in Japan and is age as of .
Since the death of  115-year बूढ़ा दीना manfredini of the संयुक्त राज्य , on 17 दिसम्बर 2012 , किमुरा , born 19 अप्रैल 1897 , is  the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented .
He has also been the oldest  जीना man चूंकि the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर breuning  on 14 April 2011 .
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12  जनवरी 2013 , the oldest जीना स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa , भी इससे जापानी , born on 5 कूच  1898 .
This is a timeline of the  african-american सिविल अधिकारों गति .
The Civil Rights  गति थी a स्वतंत्रता संघर्ष by अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी in the  1950s and 1960s to gain equality .
The goals of the  गति यहूद स्वतंत्रता इससे पक्षपात , बराबर अवसर in नियुक्ति , शिक्षा और आवास , the सही  to vote and equal access to public facilities .
Heavy metal ( often  referred to as मेटल ) is a विधा of चट्टान म्यूज़िक कि विकसित in the  late 1960s and early 1970s , largely in the United Kingdom and in the United States .
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic rock , the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick , massive sound ,  characterized by अत्यधिक प्रवर्धित distortion , विस्तारित गिटार solos , emphatic बीट्स ,  and overall loudness .
Heavy metal lyrics and performance  शैलियाँ हैं generally संबद्ध साथ मर्दानगी और machismo  .
The first heavy metal bands such  as led zeppelin , गहन जामुनी और ब्लैक sabbath आकर्षित विशाल ऑडियंस , हालांकि वे यहूद प्रायः derided by आलोचकों , a औकात  common throughout the history of the genre .
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's  एवोल्यूशन by discarding much of इसके ब्लूज़ influence ; motörhead introduced a पंक  rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed .
Bands in the New Wave of British  भारी मेटल ऐसे as आयरन maiden followed in a समान  vein .
Before the end of the decade , heavy metal  प्रशंसक became ज्ञात as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers  `` .
During the  1980s , glam मेटल became a वाणिज्यिक फ़ोर्स साथ समूह  like Mötley Crüe and Poison .
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme , aggressive  शैलियाँ : thrash मेटल broke into the मुख्यधारा साथ bands ऐसे as मेटालिका , मेगाडेथ , slayer , और एंथ्रेक्स , जबकि अन्य शैलियाँ of the सबसे  extreme subgenres of metal like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena .
Since the mid-1990s , popular styles such as nu metal , which often incorporates elements of grunge and  हिप हॉप ; और metalcore , जिससे मिश्रणों चरम मेटल साथ हार्डकोर पंक , have further विस्तारित the  definition of the genre .
The  far-right ( भी ज्ञात as the चरम सही ) refers to the उच्चतम उपाधि  of rightism in right-wing politics .
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete  सोशल पदानुक्रम in समाज , और supports सर्वोच्चता of निश्चित individuals or समूह deemed to be innately श्रेष्ठ or अस्तबलों जो हैं to be अधिक valued than those deemed  to be innately inferior or undesirable .
The far right 's advocacy of supremacism is based on what its  adherents perceive as स्वाभाविक विशेषताएँ of लोगों कि can नहीं  be changed .
This stands as a  पाइंट of अंतर साथ the centre-right 's आरोपण of behaviours , ऐसे as  laziness or decadence , as the primary sources of social inequalities .
The  केन्द्र right—unlike the दूर right—claims कि लोगों can समाप्त उनके behavioural हीनता through बदलना उनके  habits and choices .
The  असली दूर सही , जिससे उभरा in फ़्रांस बाद the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति , refused to accept the फ्रेंच गणतंत्र  and supported a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy .
The far right is  commonly संबद्ध साथ व्यक्तियों or समूह जो थाम चरम राष्ट्रवादी  , xenophobic , racist , religious fundamentalist or reactionary views .
The most extreme-right movements have pursued  दमन और नरसंहार विरूद्ध समूह of लोगों on the आधार of उनके कथित हीनता  .
Thomas  hobbes of malmesbury ( 5 अप्रैल 1588 – 4 दिसम्बर 1679 ) , in कुछ पुरानी ग्रन्थ थामस हाब्स  of Malmsbury , was an English philosopher , best known today for his work on political philosophy .
His 1651 book Leviathan established the foundation for most of Western  राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र इससे the परिप्रेक्ष्य of सोशल अनुबंध  theory .
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign , but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought  : the सही of the व्यक्तिगत ; the प्राकृतिक समता of सब मेन ; the कृत्रिम अक्षर of the राजनैतिक अनुक्रम ( जिससे led to the बाद भेद between सिविल समाज और the राज्य ) ; the दृश्य कि सब legitimate राजनैतिक शक्ति जरूर be `` प्रतिनिधि '' और आधारित on the सहमति of the लोगों  ; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid .
He was  एक of the संस्थापकों of आधुनिक राजनैतिक  philosophy .
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion , obeying the same physical laws as  अन्य पदार्थ और गति , remains influential ; और उसके खाता of इंसान प्रकृति as self-interested सहयोग ,  and of political communities as being based upon a `` social contract `` remains one of the major topics of political philosophy .
In addition to political philosophy ,  hobbes भी contributed to a विविध सरणी of अन्य फ़ील्ड , सहित इतिहास , भूगोल , the भौतिकी of गैसों , धर्मशास्त्र  , ethics , and general philosophy .
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability  to पहचानो , assess , और कंट्रोल the भाव of oneself , of अन्य  , and of groups .
It can be divided  into क्षमता ei  and trait EI .
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and has stronger  संबंध साथ परंपरागत प्रज्ञा , whereas trait ei is प्रायः measured using self-report questionnaires और रै stronger  relationships with personality .
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real  प्रज्ञा और whether it रै वृद्धिशील वैध over iq और the  Big Five personality traits .
Heredity is  the गुजर of traits to औलाद इससे इसके  parents or ancestor .
इस is the प्रक्रम by जिससे an औलाद कोशिका or सजीव acquires or becomes predisposed to the  characteristics of its parent cell or organism .
Through heredity ,  विसंगतियाँ exhibited by individuals can accumulate और कारण कुछ प्रजाति to evolve  .
The study of heredity in biology is  पुकारा आनुवंशिकी , जिससे शामिल the फ़ील्ड of  epigenetics .
For United  राज्य व्यक्तिगत आय कर , समायोजित सकल आय ( agi ) is कुल  gross income minus specific reductions .
taxable आय is समायोजित सकल आय ऋण भत्तों  for personal exemptions and itemized deductions .
For  सबसे व्यक्तिगत कर उद्देश्य , agi  is more relevant than gross income .
Gross income is sales price of goods  or प्रॉपर्टी , ऋण लागत of the प्रॉपर्टी बेची  , plus other income .
It includes wages ,  ब्याज , dividends , कारोबार आय , rental आय , और सब अन्य प्रकार of  income .
Adjusted  सकल आय is सकल आय कम deductions इससे  a business or rental activity and 21 other specific items .
Several deductions ( e.g . medical expenses and  विविध itemized deductions ) हैं सीमित आधारित on a प्रतिशत of  AGI .
Certain phase outs , including  those of निम्नतर कर दरों और itemized deductions , हैं आधारित on स्तर  of AGI .
Many states  आधार राज्य आय कर on agi साथ निश्चित deductions  .
`` Lazy Eye '' is the  तीसरा सिंगल इससे silversun pickups ' डेब्यू  album Carnavas .
The band performed the song  on the लेट दिखाएँ साथ दाउद लेटरमैन , the tonight दिखाएँ साथ jay लीनो , बाद साथ jools  Holland , and Last Call with Carson Daly .
The song is a  playable track on चट्टान बैंड 2 और गिटार नायिका  : World Tour .
An alternate  संस्करण of the सोंग , साथ a लंबाई of 7:27 , थी निभाई on xmu पहले the shorter  version was played on FM and other XM channels .
This version was featured on their demo  cd ( जिससे प्रदर्शित जल्दी संस्करण of चार ट्रैक्स  ) .
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone number ; in the North  अमरीकी क्रमांकन योजना देशों ( देश कोड 1 ) , it is the पहला तीन अंक of a  seven-digit phone number .
In  अन्य देशों दोनो the उपसर्ग और the क्रमांक  may have different lengths .
It shows which exchange  the बाकी संख्याएँ refer to  .
A full telephone number is usually made up of country code ( required for  अंतरराष्ट्रीय काल्स तभी ) , क्षेत्रफल कोड ( जरूरी लिये काल्स between टेलीफोन क्षेत्रों  ) , prefix , and subscriber number .
Some places restrict  निश्चित prefixes to फैक्स संख्याएँ or कोशिका फोन तभी ; in अन्य स्थान  such dedicated prefixes are not used .
As telephone technology advanced , the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many places ; 485 in London , UK , was once the GULliver  एक्सचेंज , लकिन अभी 44207485xxxx is बस माना एक of अनेक क्रमांक ब्लॉक परोसा by the clken kentish कस्बा एक्सचेंज  ; 4420770703xx is another .
Metformin ( BP , pronounced , ; originally sold as Glucophage  ) is an मौखिक antidiabetic ड्रग in the biguanide क्लास  .
It is  the first-line ड्रग of चुनाव लिये the उपचार of प्रकार 2 मधुमेह , in particular  , in overweight and obese people and those with normal kidney function .
Its use in  गर्भकालीन मधुमेह रै महरूम सीमित by  safety concerns .
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome ,  और रै महरूम investigated लिये अन्य रोगों जहाँ इंसुलिन प्रतिरोध may  be an important factor .
Metformin works by  suppressing ग्लूकोज उत्पादन by the जिगर  .
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug  कि रै महरूम conclusively दिखाया to prevent the cardiovascular जटिलताओं of मधुमेह  .
It helps reduce LDL  कोलेस्ट्रॉल और triglyceride स्तर , और is नहीं संबद्ध साथ वज़न  gain .
, metformin is one of only two  मौखिक antidiabetics in the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन मॉडल सूची of अनिवार्य  Medicines ( the other being glibenclamide ) .
When prescribed appropriately , metformin causes  few प्रतिकूल प्रभाव ( the सबसे आम is जठरांत्र परेशान ) और is संबद्ध  with a low risk of hypoglycemia .
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a serious concern in overdose and  जब it is विहित to लोगों साथ contraindications , लकिन वरना , वहीँ is no significant रिस्क  .
First synthesized and found to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s , metformin was  forgotten लिये the अगला दो दशकों as शोध shifted to इंसुलिन और अन्य  antidiabetic drugs .
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several  रिपोर्ट्स कि it could reduce रक्त शुगर स्तर in लोगों , और in 1957 , फ्रेंच चिकित्सक जां sterne  published the first clinical trial of metformin as a treatment for diabetes .
It was  introduced to the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1958 , कनाडा in 1972  , and the United States in 1995 .
Metformin is now believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United States  अलोन , अधिक than 48 लाख prescriptions यहूद भर in 2010 लिये इसके जेनेरिक formulations  .
The Mount  rushmore नेशनल मेमोरियल is a मूर्तिकला carved into the ग्रेनाइट फेस of माउंट rushmore निकट keystone , दक्षिण डकोटा  , in the United States .
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son ,  lincoln borglum , माउंट rushmore सुविधाएँ sculptures of the heads of चार संयुक्त राज्य राष्ट्रपतियों : जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , थामस जेफरसन , थियोडोर  Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln .
The  संपूर्ण मेमोरियल कवर  and is above sea level .
The tallest mountain in the  प्रदेश is harney शिखर  ( ) .
South Dakota historian Doane  रॉबिन्सन is credited साथ conceiving the विचार of नक्काशी the likenesses of प्रसिद्ध लोगों into the  Black Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the region .
Robinson 's initial idea was to sculpt the Needles ;  however , gutzon borglum अस्वीकृत the needles साईट क्युकी of the ग़रीब विशेषता of the ग्रेनाइट और दमदार विपक्ष इससे पर्यावरणविद  and Native American groups .
वे settled on the माउंट rushmore स्थान , जिससे भी रै the लाभ  of facing southeast for maximum sun exposure .
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and  क्लार्क , रेड बादल और भैंस विधेयक कोड़ी लकिन borglum decided the मूर्तिकला चाहिए have a अधिक नेशनल फ़ोकस , और chose the चार राष्ट्रपतियों  whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain .
After  securing संघीय funding , निर्माण on the मेमोरियल began in 1927 , और the राष्ट्रपतियों  ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939 .
Upon Gutzon Borglum 's death in March  1941 , उसके बेटे lincoln borglum took over निर्माण  .
Although the initial concept  पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक अध्यक्ष to be चित्रित इससे सिर to कमर  , lack of funding forced construction to end in late October 1941 .
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the memorial in 1933 , while it  थी स्टिल अंतर्गत निर्माण , और रै प्रबंधित the मेमोरियल to the उपस्थित दिन  .
It attracts  nearly तीन लाख लोगों annually  .
Charvet dress  कमीज़ इससे the 1930s , norsk folkemuseum  , Oslo .
A shirt , dress shirt , button-front , button-front shirt , or  button-up कमीज़ is a परिधान साथ a कॉलर , a full-length खोलने at the सामने इससे the कॉलर to the हेम , और टाँक  with cuffs .
Shirts are  predominantly प्रयुक्त by मेन , चूंकि महिलाओं प्रायः पहनें  blouses .
The front opening  is fastened using बटन or studs , और the  cuffs close with buttons or cuff links .
Shirts are normally made from woven cloth , and are often  accompanied by a जैकेट और टाई , लिये उदाहरण साथ a सूट or formalwear , लकिन शर्ट  are also worn more casually .
In British English , dress shirt means  specifically the अधिक औपचारिक संध्या परिधान worn साथ black- or white- टाई , भी discussed  below .
Some  of ये औपचारिक शर्ट have stiff  fronts and detachable collars attached with collar studs .
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of shirt which has a collar fastened down by buttons  ) is sometimes प्रयुक्त in गलती to लागू to सब शर्ट ( साथ or बगैर buttoned bas छल्लों ) , होने प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये  `` button-up '' or `` button-front '' .
प्रशासनिक पेशेवर दिन ( भी ज्ञात as secretaries दिन or एडमिन दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries , प्रशासनिक assistants , receptionists  , and other administrative support professionals .
In North America , it is  मनाये on the बुधवार of the पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of अप्रैल ( अप्रैल  24 in 2013 ) .
in फ़्रांस it is मनाये on the तीसरा गुरुवार  in April ( April 18 in 2013 ) .
In Australia  it is मनाये on the पहला शुक्रवार  in May
धमाकेदार can be:
अक्खड़ धमाकेदार
धमाका भट्टी
Rock  धमाकेदार
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 )  थी the अग्रणी चित्रकार of the शास्त्रीय फ्रेंच बरॉक स्टाइल , हालांकि  he spent most of his working life in Rome .
His work is characterized by  स्पष्टता , लॉजिक , और अनुक्रम , और  favors line over color .
Until the 20th century he remained a major inspiration for  ऐसे classically उन्मुख कलाकारों as jacques-louis दाउद , jean-auguste-dominique ingres  and Paul Cézanne .
He worked in Rome for a  वृत्त of अग्रणी collectors वहीँ और elsewhere , मगर लिये a छोटी काल जब कार्डिनल रिचलू ordered उसे  back to France to serve as First Painter to the King .
Most of his works are history  paintings of धार्मिक or पौराणिक विषय कि बहुत प्रायः have a विशाल  landscape element .
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1 , 1954Stambler , Irwin , and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ) . - Country Music : The Encyclopedia . - New York : St. Martin 's Press . - p.533 . - ISBN  978-0-312-26487-1.—carlin , रिचर्ड ( 2003 ) . - देश म्यूज़िक : a biographical शब्दकोष . - नई यॉर्क : routledge - p.427 . - isbn 978-0-415-93802-0.—larkin , कोलिन ( 1995 ) . - the गिनीज ज्ञानकोष of लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक . - नई यॉर्क : स्टॉकटन दबायें - p.4462 . - isbn 978-0-85112-662-3.—stanton , स्कॉट ( 2003 ) . - the tombstone पर्यटक : संगीतकारों . - नई यॉर्क : जेब किताबे . - p.395 . - isbn 978-0-7434-6330-0.—hicks , जोकर . - `` सिंगर कैथ whitley 's मेमोरी जिंदा through गीतों , प्रेम in घर कस्बा '' . - the केंटकी पोस्ट . - सितंबर 25 , 1991.—  '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley Dead at 33 '' . - Lexington Herald-Leader . - May 10 , 1989.——Hurst , Jack . - `` Whitley 's Last Days '' . - Chicago Tribune . - May 14 , 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley '' . - United Press International . - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ) . - May 10 , 1989 . — May 9 , 1989 ) , known professionally as Keith Whitley , was an American country music singer .
Whitley 's brief career in  मुख्यधारा देश म्यूज़िक lasted इससे 1984 जबतक उसके मौत in 1989 , लकिन he continues  to influence an entire generation of singers and songwriters .
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts , including five  लगातार क्रमांक ones : `` do n't बंद अपना आँखें `` , `` जब तुम कह nothing at सब `` , `` i 'm no अजनबी to the बरसात `` , `` i अचरज do तुम  Think of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ) .
Statute of Grand  duchy of लिथुआनिया , लिखा  in Polish
A statute is a formal  लिखा enactment of a विधान प्राधिकार कि governs a राज्य  , city , or county .
Typically ,  statutes कमांड or prohibit कुछ , or घोषित  policy .
The word is often used to distinguish law made by legislative bodies  इससे मामला विधि , decided by न्यायालयों , और regulations जारी by सरकारी एजेंसियों  .
Statutes are sometimes  referred to as विधान or `` ब्लैक अक्षर  law . ''
As a  सोर्स of विधि , statutes हैं  considered primary authority ( as opposed to secondary authority ) .
Ideally all statutes must be  in सामंजस्य साथ the आधारभूत विधि of the जमीन ( संवैधानिक  ) .
This word is used in  contradistinction to the आम  law .
statutes acquire उनके फ़ोर्स इससे the समय  of their passage , however unless otherwise provided .
statutes हैं of अनेक kinds ; namely  , Public or private .
declaratory or remedial  .
अस्थाई or perpetual  .
A temporary statute is one which is limited  in इसके अवधि at the समय  of its enactment .
It continues in force until the  समय of इसके limitation रै समाप्त , जबतक  sooner repealed .
A perpetual statute is one for the continuance of which there is no limited time  , हालांकि it may नहीं be expressly घोषित to be so  .
If , however , a statute which  किया नहीं itself contain कोई limitation is to be governed by another जिससे is अस्थाई तभी , the पूर्व  will also be temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter .
पहले a statute becomes विधि in कुछ देशों , it जरूर be सहमत upon  by the highest executive in the government , and finally published as part of a code .
In many countries ,  statutes हैं व्यवस्थित in topical इंतजाम ( or `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) भीतर publications पुकारा  codes , such as the United States Code .
In many nations statutory law is  विशिष्ट इससे और अधीनस्थ to संवैधानिक विधि  .
The  बाह्य iliac धमनियों हैं दो प्रमुख धमनियों जिससे bifurcate बंद the आम  iliac arteries anterior to the sacroiliac joint of the pelvis .
They proceed anterior and inferior along  the medial किनारा of the psoas प्रमुख मांसपेशियां  .
They exit the pelvic  girdle posterior और अवर to the वंक्षण स्नायु परिचय एक तीसरा laterally इससे the प्रविष्ट पाइंट of the वंक्षण स्नायु  on the pubic tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries .
The external iliac  धमनी is प्रायः the धमनी प्रयुक्त to संलग्न the renal धमनी to the प्राप्तकर्ता  of a kidney transplant .
Steam is a digital distribution , digital rights management ,  एकाधिक और संचार मंच विकसित by  Valve Corporation .
It is used to  वितरित खेल और सम्बन्धित मीडिया ऑनलाइन , इससे छोटी स्वतंत्र डेवलपर to larger तन्त्र घरों  ; in October 2012 , Valve expanded the service to include non-gaming software .
Steam provides the user  साथ संस्थापना और स्वचालित प्रबन्धन of तन्त्र आरपार अनेक कंप्यूटर , जातियाँ सुविधाएँ  such as friends lists and groups , cloud saving , and in-game voice and chat functionality .
The software provides a freely available application programming interface , Steamworks , that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of  भाप 's कृत्यों भीतर उनके तन्त्र उत्पाद , सहित नक़ल सुरक्षा , नेटवर्किंग और matchmaking , in-game उपलब्धियाँ और micro-transactions , और support लिये user-created सामग्री  through Steam Workshop .
Though initially developed for use on  microsoft खिड़कियाँ , the क्लाएंट रै विस्तारित to शामिल os x और लिनक्स संस्करण , और क्लाइंट साथ सीमित  functionality on the PlayStation 3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices .
In addition to being a central hub for gaming  तन्त्र , वाल्व रै निर्मित a संस्करण of भाप साथ altered कार्यक्षमता to be प्रयुक्त in स्कूलों लिये शैक्षणिक तन्त्र , सहित a परिवर्धित संस्करण  of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons .
,  वहीँ हैं nearly 2000 खेल उपलब्धियाँ through भाप  , and 54 million active user accounts .
As  of जनवरी 2013 , भाप रै देखी over 6.6 लाख संयुक्त  players .
Steam has an  अनुमानित 50–70 % share of the डिजिटल वितरण मार्केट लिये वीडियो  games .
The Steam logo is a stylised  left-side fly-crank और लाठी इससे the walschaerts वाल्व गियर of a  steam locomotive .
Jerry Lewis (  born कूच 16 , 1926 ) is an अमरीकी हास्य  , actor , singer , film producer , screenwriter and film director .
He is known for his  slapstick ह्यूमर in फिल्मी , टेलीविज़न , स्टेज और रेडियो  .
He was  originally युग्म up साथ डीन मार्टिन in 1946 , forming the famed  comedy team of Martin and Lewis .
In  जोड to the duo 's लोकप्रिय nightclub कार्य , वे स्ट्रक्चर in a कामयाब  series of comedy films for Paramount Pictures .
Lewis is also known for his  दान fund-raising telethons और स्थिति as नेशनल अध्यक्ष लिये the muscular dystrophy  Association ( MDA ) .
Lewis has won  अनेक पुरस्कार लिये आजीवन उपलब्धियाँ इससे the अमरीकी कॉमेडी पुरस्कार , लॉस एंजिल्स फिल्मी आलोचकों संघ , और वेनिस  Film Festival , and he has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
In 2005 , he  प्राप्त the राज्यपालों पुरस्कार of the अकादमी of टेलीविज़न कला & sciences फलक  of Governors , which is the highest Emmy Award presented .
On February 22 , 2009 , the Academy of  गति चित्र कला और sciences awarded लुईस the जां hersholt humanitarian  Award .
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss  कैण्टन of grisons in the southeastern स्विस ऐल्प्स through जर्मनी और आखिरकार बहती into the उत्तर समुद्र coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the बारहवीं longest नदी in यूरोपीय , at परिचय , साथ  an average discharge of more than .
The  राइन और the डेन्यूब formed सबसे of the उत्तरी अंतर्देशीय frontier of the रोमन साम्राज्य और , चूंकि those दिनों , the राइन रै महरूम  a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland .
It has also served as a  रक्षात्मक विशेषता और रै महरूम the आधार लिये क्षेत्रीय और  international borders .
The many castles and  प्रागैतिहासिक fortifications साथ the राइन गवाही to इसके महत्व  as a waterway .
नदी ट्रैफ़िक could be रोका at ये स्थितियाँ , प्रायः लिये the purpose of collecting tolls ,  by the state that controlled that portion of the river .
Sri  ( सिंहली  )
Sri (  देवनागरी : श्री , iast ; śrī ) , भी transliterated as sree or shri or श्री is a शब्द of संस्कृत उत्पत्ति , प्रयुक्त in the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप as विनम्र रूप of पता समतुल्य to  the English `` Mr. '' in written and spoken language , or as a title of veneration for deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ) .
Design of complex structures  जैसे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन needs in-depth समझना of संरचनात्मक  Analysis .
Civil engineering is a professional engineering  अनुशासन कि सौदे साथ the डिज़ाइन , निर्माण , और मेंटेनेंस of the शारीरिक और naturally निर्मित पर्यावरण , सहित  works like roads , bridges , canals , dams , and buildings .
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline  बाद सैन्य अभियान्त्रिकी , और it थी पारिभाषित to फर्क non-military  engineering from military engineering .
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering , geotechnical engineering , geophysics , geodesy , control engineering ,  संरचनात्मक अभियान्त्रिकी , biomechanics , nanotechnology , परिवहन अभियान्त्रिकी , धरती विज्ञान , वायुमंडलीय sciences , forensic अभियान्त्रिकी , नगरपालिका or शहरी अभियान्त्रिकी , जल संसाधन अभियान्त्रिकी , सामग्री अभियान्त्रिकी , तटीय अभियान्त्रिकी , सर्वेक्षण  , and construction engineering .
Civil engineering takes place on all levels : in the public sector from municipal through to national  सरकारें , और in the निजी सेक्टर इससे व्यक्तिगत homeowners through to अंतरराष्ट्रीय कंपनियाँ  .
Katherine  dunham in तीव्र  Revue
कैथरीन dunham in स्टुडियो
Katherine  dunham in तीव्र पुनर्विलोकन तीव्र पुनर्विलोकन , मार्टिन  Beck Theatre
कैथरीन dunham wearing  dance costume
कैथरीन dunham  in Cumbia
कैथरीन dunham ( जून 22 , 1909 – may 21 , 2006 ) थी an अमरीकी नर्तकी , कोरियोग्राफर  , author , educator , and social activist .
Dunham had one of the most  कामयाब नृत्य करियर in अमरीकी और यूरोपीय थिएटर of the 20th सदी , और निर्देशित उसके अपना नृत्य कम्पनी  for many years .
She  रै महरूम पुकारा the `` matriarch और  queen mother of black dance '' .
दौरान उसके heyday in the 1940s और 1950s , dunham थी प्रसिद्ध throughout यूरोपीय और लैटिन अमेरिका और थी  widely popular in the United States , where the Washington Post called her `` dancer Katherine the Great '' .
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance Company , the only  self-supported अमरीकी ब्लैक नृत्य troupe at कि समय , और over उसके long करियर वो choreographed अधिक than नब्बे व्यक्तिगत  dances .
Dunham was an innovator in African-American modern dance as  खूब as a नेता in the फ़ील्ड of नृत्य मानवशास्त्र , or ethnochoreology  .
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500  प्रजाति of mosses , commonly पुकारा peat मॉस due to इसके व्यापकता in गीला habitats जहाँ it contributes to the गठन of  peat bogs and mires .
Sphagnum accumulations can store water , since both living and dead plants can hold  विशाल quantities of जल अंदर उनके कोशिकाएं ; पौधे may थाम इससे 16-26 टाइम्स as much जल as उनके शुष्क वज़न depending  on the species .
The  खाली कोशिकाएं सहायता retain  water in drier conditions .
Hence , as sphagnum moss  grows , it can धीरे स्प्रेड into drier शर्तें , forming  larger peatlands , both raised bogs and blanket bogs .
These peat accumulations  तब provide आवास लिये a चौड़ी सरणी of peatland पौधे , सहित sedges  and ericaceous shrubs , as well as orchids and carnivorous plants .
sphagnum और the peat formed इससे it do नहीं क्षय readily क्युकी of the phenolic  compounds embedded in the moss 's cell walls .
In addition , bogs , like all wetlands , develop  अवायवीय मृदा शर्तें , जिससे produces धीमा अवायवीय क्षय बल्कि than एरोबिक  microbial action .
peat मॉस can भी acidify इसके परिवेश by लेने up cations  , such as calcium and magnesium , and releasing hydrogen ions .
Under the  सही शर्तें , peat can accumulate to a  depth of many meters .
अलग प्रजाति of sphagnum have अलग सहिष्णुता हद लिये बाढ़ और ph , so  any one peatland may have a number of different Sphagnum species .
व्यक्तिगत peat मॉस पौधे consist of a प्रमुख स्टेम , साथ tightly arranged क्लस्टर of शाखा fascicles प्रायः  consisting of two or three spreading branches and two to four hanging branches .
The top of the  संयंत्र , or capitulum , रै कॉम्पैक्ट क्लस्टर  of young branches .
Along  the स्टेम हैं बिखरे पत्ते of विभिन्न आकार , नामित स्टेम पत्ते ; the  shape varies according to species .
The leaves consist of two kinds  of कोशिकाएं ; छोटी , ग्रीन , जीना कोशिकाएं ( chlorophyllose कोशिकाएं ) , और विशाल , साफ , संरचनात्मक ,  dead cells ( hyaline cells ) .
The latter  have the विशाल water-holding  capacity .
The earliest version of the  संजाल कार्ड , जारी हस्तचालित बल्कि than through an aptis  machine .
The first APTIS  संस्करण of the संजाल  Card .
This was used from the start of the APTIS era in  1986/1987 जबतक खूब into the 1990s , as स्टॉक्स था to be प्रयुक्त up despite the परिचय of  the new-look orange-banded version in 1991 .
The introduction of the weekday minimum  किराया कंडीशन in 2002 resulted in a नाबालिग बदलें : the रेड `` r '' shows कि इस is the `` संशोधित  '' version of the railcard .
This version is  स्टिल in उपयोग as of  2007 .
The Network Railcard is a discount card  introduced in 1986 by अंग्रेजों रेल , upon the सृष्टि of उनके संजाल southeast क्षेत्रफल around लंदन , इंग्लैण्ड  .
The  कार्ड is intended to प्रोत्साहित अवकाश सफर by रेल by offering छूट लिये वयस्कों और accompanying children on  a wide range of off-peak fares .
The range of discounts available , and the price of the card , have varied since that time , but the card  रै सदा महरूम मान्य लिये a साल 's असीमित उपयोग  .
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or Rail  नियुक्त सफर एजेंट , by completing an अनुप्रयोग रूप - no फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक पहचान or अन्य दस्तावेज़ीकरण  is needed to buy or use the card .
It is one of a number of  concessionary किराया योजनाएं उपलब्धियाँ on the अंग्रेजों  railway system .
The United  राष्ट्र ( un ; फ्रेंच : संगठन देस राष्ट्र unies , onu ) is  the world 's largest , foremost , and most prominent international organization .
The stated aims of the  संयुक्त राष्ट्र शामिल promoting और facilitating सहयोग in अंतरराष्ट्रीय विधि , अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा , आर्थिक विकास , सोशल प्रगति , इंसान अधिकारों  , civil rights , civil liberties , political freedoms , democracy , and the achievement of lasting world peace .
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the  लीग of राष्ट्र , to रोकें युद्धों between देशों , और to provide a मंच लिये संवाद  .
It contains  अनेक subsidiary संगठन to  carry out its missions .
At its founding ,  the un था 51 सदस्य राज्य ; as of 2011  , there are 193 .
From its  कार्यालयों around the संसार , the un और इसके specialized एजेंसियों decide  on substantive and administrative issues in regular meetings held throughout the year .
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting in  promoting अंतरराष्ट्रीय आर्थिक और सोशल सहयोग और विकास ) ; the सचिवालय ( लिये providing अध्ययन , सूचना , और सुविधाएं needed by the un ) ; the अंतरराष्ट्रीय अदालत of इंसाफ ( the प्राथमिक  judicial organ ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is currently inactive ) .
Other prominent UN System agencies  शामिल the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन ( जो ) , the संसार खाना कार्यक्रम ( wfp ) और संयुक्त राष्ट्र  Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) .
The UN 's  सबसे prominent स्थिति is कि of the दफ्तर of secretary-general जिससे  has been held by Ban Ki-moon of South Korea since 2007 .
The United Nations Headquarters resides  in अंतरराष्ट्रीय territory in नई यॉर्क नगर , साथ further प्रमुख  offices at Geneva , Nairobi , and Vienna .
The organization is financed from assessed  और voluntary योगदान इससे इसके सदस्य राज्य , और रै छह आधिकारिक भाषाएं : अरबी , चाइनीज , अंग्रेज़ी , फ्रेंच , रूसी  , and Spanish .
South Beach , also nicknamed SoBe , is a neighborhood in the  नगर of मियामी बीच , फ्लोरिडा , संयुक्त राज्य , स्तिथ due ईस्ट of मियामी नगर उचित between biscayne खाड़ी और  the Atlantic Ocean .
The area encompasses all of the  अवरोध आइलैंड्स of मियामी बीच दक्षिण of भारतीय  Creek .
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed , starting in the 1910s , thanks to the development efforts of Carl G. Fisher , the Lummus Brothers ,  और जॉन S. कॉलिन्स , the latter जिनकी निर्माण of the कॉलिन्स सेतु provided the पहला vital जमीन कड़ी between मेनलैंड मियामी और the समुद्रतट  .
The  क्षेत्रफल रै गए through numerous कृत्रिम और प्राकृतिक परिवर्तन over the सालो , सहित a booming क्षेत्रीय  economy , increased tourism , and the 1926 hurricane , which destroyed much of the area .
As of 2010 , about 39,186  निवासियों सजीव in दक्षिण बीच  .
The United States presidential election of 1960 was the 44th  quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , आयोजित on मंगलवार , नवम्बर 8  , 1960 .
The Republican Party nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard Nixon , while the Democratic  पार्टी मनोनीत जॉन F. कैनेडी , सीनेटर इससे मैसाचुसेट्स .
The incumbent President ,  रिपब्लिकन ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर , थी नहीं योग्य लिये re-election बाद  serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes ,  or 0.17 % of the लोकप्रिय vote , giving उसे a विजय of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी कॉलेज ,  the closest since 1916 .
This was the first  चुनाव in जिससे सब पचास of the वर्तमान संयुक्त राज्य participated  .
A  क्रमांक of कारकों बताइये क्यों the चुनाव थी  so close .
Kennedy gained  चूंकि वहीँ थी an आर्थिक मंदी जिससे ठेस the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन , और he था the लाभ  of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans .
Furthermore , the new votes that Kennedy  gained among catholics लगभग neutralized the नई मत निक्सन  gained among Protestants .
Kennedy 's  campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched  Nixon 's .
In the end , Nixon 's  जोर on उसके अनुभव carried छोटी वज़न , और he wasted उर्जा by campaigning in सब 50 राज्य बजाय  of concentrating on the swing states .
Kennedy used his large ,  well-funded अभियान संगठन to जीत the नामांकन , सुरक्षित समर्थन , और , साथ  the aid of the last of the big-city bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He relied on running  mate lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण और प्रयुक्त टेलीविज़न effectively  .
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S . Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president  , a घटना कि रै महरूम दोहराया एकबार , by बराक ओबामा और जो बिडेन in 2008 ( in दोनो मामले , the अध्यक्ष थी the younger , अधिक जूनियर  senator ) .
A poster for a c. 1884 American  उत्पादन of मैकबेथ , अभिनीत थामस W. keene  .
Depicted , counter clockwise from top-left , are  : मैकबेथ और banquo मिलें the witches ; बस बाद the हत्या of डंकन ; banquo 's भुत  ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth .
Macbeth is a play  लिखा by विलियम शेक्सपियर  .
It is  माना एक of उसके darkest और सबसे  powerful tragedies .
Set in Scotland , the play dramatizes the  corroding मनोवैज्ञानिक और राजनैतिक प्रभाव उत्पादित जब इसके समर्थक , the स्कॉटिश रब मैकबेथ  , chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power .
he commits regicide to become किंग और तब furthers उसके moral descent साथ a शासनकाल of murderous  terror to stay in power , eventually plunging the country into civil war .
in the समाप्त , he loses सबकुछ कि देता अर्थ और purpose to  his life before losing his life itself .
the खेल is believed to have महरूम लिखा between 1603 और  1607 , and is most commonly dated 1606 .
The earliest account of  a प्रदर्शन of कया थी संभवतः शेक्सपियर 's खेल is अप्रैल 1611 , जब साइमन  Forman recorded seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre .
It was first published in the  folio of 1623 , संभवतः इससे a संकेत  book .
It was most  संभावित लिखा दौरान the शासनकाल of जेम्स i , जो था महरूम जेम्स vi of स्कॉटलैंड  before he succeeded to the English throne in 1603 .
James was  a संरक्षक of shakespeare’s एक्टिंग कम्पनी , और of सब the plays शेक्सपियर लिखा दौरान james’s शासनकाल  , Macbeth most clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship with the sovereign .
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy , and  tells the स्टोरी of a वीर स्कॉटिश सामान्य नामित मैकबेथ जो receives a prophecy  from a trio of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland .
Consumed by ambition and spurred to  कार्रवाई by उसके बीवी , मैकबेथ हत्याएं किंग डंकन और takes  the throne for himself .
His reign is  racked साथ guilt और paranoia , और he जल्द becomes a tyrannical  ruler as he is forced to commit more and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion .
The bloodbath swiftly takes Macbeth  और महिला मैकबेथ into realms of arrogance , दीवानगी  , and death .
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of  स्कॉटलैंड , macduff , और डंकन in holinshed 's क्रॉनिकल्स ( 1587 ) , a इतिहास of इंग्लैण्ड , स्कॉटलैंड और आयरलैंड परिचित to शेक्सपियर और उसके contemporaries  , although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth .
In the backstage world of theatre , some believe that  the खेल is शापित , और होगा नहीं जिक्र इसके शीर्षक aloud , referring to it बजाय  as `` the Scottish play `` .
Over the course of many centuries , the  खेल रै आकर्षित कुछ of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध अभिनेताओं to the भूमिकाएँ of मैकबेथ और महिला  Macbeth .
It has been adapted to film , television  , ओपेरा , novels , कॉमिक किताबे , और अन्य मीडिया  .
The  मिल्टन hershey स्कूल is a निजी परोपकारी ( pre-k through 12  ) boarding school in Hershey , Pennsylvania .
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School ,  the संस्था थी संस्थापित और वित्तपोषित by चॉकलेट उद्योगपति मिल्टन snavely hershey और उसके बीवी , कैथरीन  Sweeney Hershey .
The school was originally established for impoverished ,  स्वस्थ , caucasian , पुरूष अनाथ , जबकि आज it serves विद्यार्थी of विभिन्न पृष्ठभूमि  .
The Milton Hershey School Trust , which funds the school , owns controlling interest in  the hershey कम्पनी और owns the hershey entertainment और रिसॉर्ट कम्पनी ( herco ) जिससे oversees अनेक  of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark .
With  over छह अरब डॉलर in एसेट , the मिल्टन hershey स्कूल is एक  of the wealthiest schools in the world .
The  स्कूल is overseen by a फलक  of Managers .
The school  फिलहाल serves 1,818 विद्यार्थी , और योजनाएँ to grow to 2,100 विद्यार्थी  by 2013 .
A  सदस्य of कोर : गठबन्धन लिये आवासीय शिक्षा , it  is the largest residential education program in the US .
Epub  may refer to:
EPUB , a free and  खोलें e-book मानक
Electronic article ,  आलेख in scholarly जर्नल्स or मैगज़ीन कि can be पहुँचा via इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  transmission
The Controlled  substances अधिनियम ( सीएसए ) थी enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक  Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S.  ड्रग नीति अंतर्गत जिससे the manufacture , importation , कब्ज़ा , उपयोग और वितरण of निश्चित  substances is regulated .
The Act also served as the national implementing  विधान लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन on narcotic दवाएँ  .
The  विधान निर्मित पाँच schedules ( classifications ) , साथ  varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various  schedules , हालांकि the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग , और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000 , जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i . वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड  including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
Second-language acquisition or  second-language सीखना is the प्रक्रम by जिससे लोगों सीख a दूसरी भाषा  .
Second-language acquisition (  प्रायः abbreviated to sla ) भी refers to the वैज्ञानिक अनुशासन devoted  to studying that process .
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a person 's first  भाषा ; हालांकि the अवधारणा is नामित second-language अधिग्रहण , it can भी चरितार्थ the सीखना  of third , fourth , or subsequent languages .
second-language अधिग्रहण refers to कया learners do ; it करता  not refer to practices in language teaching .
The  अकादमिक अनुशासन of second-language अधिग्रहण is a subdiscipline  of applied linguistics .
It is  broad-based और अपेक्षाकृत  new .
As well as the various branches of  भाषाविज्ञान , second-language अधिग्रहण is भी closely सम्बन्धित to मनोविज्ञान , संज्ञानात्मक  psychology , and education .
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself , the terms second-language  अधिग्रहण शोध , second-language अध्ययन , और second-language अधिग्रहण अध्ययन हैं भी प्रयुक्त  .
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary  फ़ील्ड , और क्युकी of इस it is मुश्किल to पहचानो a precise starting  date .
however , it करता appear to have विकसित a ग्रेट सौदे  since the mid-1960s .
The term acquisition  थी originally प्रयुक्त to emphasize the अवचेतन प्रकृति of  the learning process , but in recent years learning and acquisition have become largely synonymous .
Second-language acquisition can incorporate heritage  भाषा सीखना , लकिन it करता नहीं प्रायः चरितार्थ bilingualism  .
Most SLA researchers see  bilingualism as होने the समाप्त परिणाम of सीखना a भाषा , नहीं the प्रक्रम  itself , and see the term as referring to native-like fluency .
Writers in fields such as  शिक्षा और मनोविज्ञान , however , प्रायः उपयोग bilingualism loosely to refer  to all forms of multilingualism .
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign  भाषा ; बल्कि , the सीखना of दूसरी भाषाएं और the सीखना of विदेशी भाषाएं involve the वही आधारभूत  processes in different situations..
There has been much debate  परिचय exactly कैसा भाषा is सीखे , और अनेक मुद्दे  are still unresolved .
There are many theories of second-language acquisition  , लकिन none हैं स्वीकृत as a पूरा स्पष्टीकरण by सब sla शोधकर्ताओं  .
Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field of  second-language अधिग्रहण , इस is नहीं अपेक्षित to happen in  the foreseeable future .
Forbes list of billionaires is  an सालाना रैंकिंग of the संसार 's wealthiest लोगों , compiled और प्रकाशित by फोर्ब्स , an अमरीकी  national business magazine .
The total net worth of each individual on the list is estimated ,  in संयुक्त राज्य डॉलर , आधारित on उनके एसेट और हिसाब  for debt .
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a  सिंगल दिन , due to रोज़ fluctuations among एक्सचेंज दरों  and stock valuations .
The United States Secret Service is a U.S.  संघीय विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसी कि is भाग of the संयुक्त  States Department of Homeland Security .
The sworn members are divided  among the खास एजेंटों और  the Uniformed Division .
Until March 1 , 2003 , the Service was  भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग of the राजकोष  .
The U.S. Secret Service  रै दो पृथक क्षेत्रों of responsibility:
Financial Crimes , covering missions such  as रोकथाम और छानबीन of counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी और u.S.  treasury securities , and investigation of major fraud .
Protection , which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders and their families , such as the President , past  राष्ट्रपतियों , वाइस राष्ट्रपतियों , अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवार , visiting heads of राज्य , और विदेशी embassies ( प्रति an अनुबंध साथ the u.S. राज्य विभाग 's ब्यूरो of राजनयिक सुरक्षा  ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ) , etc . )
The Secret Service 's initial responsibility was to  investigate counterfeiting of u.S. करेंसी , जिससे  was rampant following the U.S. Civil War .
The  एजेंसी तब विकसित into the संयुक्त राज्य ' पहला घरेलू  intelligence and counterintelligence agency .
Many of the agency 's missions were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) , Bureau of  दारू , तम्बाकू , firearms और विस्फोटक ( atf ) , आव्रजन और कस्टम प्रवर्तन ( बर्फ ) , और आतंरिक आय सेवा ( irs ) .
`` Me and Bobby McGee '' is a song  लिखा by क्रिस kristofferson और फ्रेड फोस्टर , originally performed by रोजर मिलर  .
Others performed the song  बाद , सहित kristofferson खुद , और janis joplin जो अव्वल the u.S. singles चार्ट साथ the सोंग in 1971 बाद उसके मौत , बनाना the सोंग the दूसरी posthumous  number-one single in U.S. chart history after `` ( Sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding .
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , FDR , was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 )  और a सेंट्रल फिगर in संसार कार्यक्रम दौरान the mid-20th सदी , अग्रणी the संयुक्त राज्य दौरान a समय of विश्वव्यापी आर्थिक अवसाद और कुल  war .
A dominant leader of the  लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और the तभी अमरीकी अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित to अधिक than दो शर्तें , he निर्मित a नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि realigned अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932 , as उसके  domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the  bouncy लोकप्रिय सोंग `` प्रसन्न दिनों हैं यहाँ again `` as उसके अभियान थीम , fdr पराजित लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन हर्बर्ट  Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his  निजी विजय over पोलियो , fdr 's unfailing आशावाद और सक्रियता contributed to a नवीकरण of the  national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General  सचिव जोसेफ स्टालिन in अग्रणी the allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी और जापानी in संसार युद्ध ii , और restoring समृद्धि to the  nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of  कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the नई सौदे —a किस्में of कार्यक्रम designed to उपज राहत ( सरकारी कार्य लिये the बेरोजगार ) , रिकवरी ( आर्थिक विकास ) , और सुधार ( through विनियमन  of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy  improved rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937 , लकिन तब  relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937  prevented उसके पैकिंग the परम् अदालत or गुजर कोई considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम जब बेरोजगारी diminished दौरान  World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85 , except  लिये the विनियमन of वॉल गली by the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग , जिससे  still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major  surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the संघीय जमा बीमे निगम , जिससे थी निर्मित in 1933 , और सोशल सुरक्षा  , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed  बाद 1938 , साथ the जापानी आक्रमण of चीन और the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी , fdr दिया दमदार  diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal  थी to मेक अमेरिका the `` आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र ``  which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with  congressional स्वीकृति , provided lend-lease सहायता to the देशों लड़ विरूद्ध नाजी जर्मनी साथ  Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack  on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर 7 , 1941 , कॉलिंग it a `` तिथि जिससे होगा  live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the  u.S. अर्थव्यवस्था to support the अलाइड युद्ध प्रयत्न  .
As an active military leader ,  रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall युद्ध रणनीति on दो fronts कि  ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered  the internment of 100,000 जापानी  American civilians .
बेरोजगारी dropped to 2 % , राहत कार्यक्रम largely ended , और the औद्योगिक अर्थव्यवस्था grew rapidly to नई हाइट्स as लाखो of लोगों स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers , और 16  million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
रूज़वेल्ट वर्चस्व the अमरीकी राजनैतिक झाँकी  not only during the twelve years of his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated  the realignment of मतदाता कि निर्मित the  Fifth Party System .
fdr 's नई सौदे गठबन्धन संयुक्त मजदूर संघ , बिग नगर मशीने ,  white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also  बहकावे the बाद सृष्टि of the संयुक्त  Nations and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is  consistently रेटेड by विद्वानों as एक of the शीर्ष तीन u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों  , along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological  स्थिति as `` a छोटी बाएँ of बीच . ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS ,  मारा , और ms-13 ) is a transnational दण्ड गिरोह कि originated in लॉस एंजिल्स और रै स्प्रेड to अन्य भाग  of the United States , Canada , Mexico , and Central America .
The majority of the gang is ethnically  रचित of सेंट्रल अमेरिकी और क्रियाशील in शहरी और  suburban areas .
In the U.S. , the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California ; the Washington , D.C. metropolitan  क्षेत्रों of फेयरफैक्स काउंटी , वर्जिनिया , मोंटगोमरी काउंटी , मेरीलैंड , और प्रिंस जार्ज 's काउंटी , मेरीलैंड ; long द्वीप , नई यॉर्क ; the बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स क्षेत्रफल ; शेर्लोट  , North Carolina ; and Houston , Texas .
There is also a  उपस्थिति of ms-13 in टोरंटो , ओंटारियो  , Canada .
Members of MS  फर्क themselves by टैटू covering the देह और भी प्रायः  the face , as well as the use of their own sign language .
They are  बदनाम लिये उनके उपयोग of हिंसा और a subcultural moral कोड कि predominantly  consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions .
This cruelty of the distinguished members of the `` Maras '' or `` Mareros '' earned them a path to be recruited by the  sinaloa कार्टेल battling विरूद्ध लॉस zetas in an जारी ड्रग युद्ध दक्षिण of the संयुक्त राज्य किनारा  .
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn  the ध्यान of the एफबीआई और आव्रजन और कस्टम प्रवर्तन , जो have initiated wide-scale छापे विरूद्ध ज्ञात और suspected  gang members – netting hundreds of arrests across the country .
Bones is an  अमरीकी अपराधों comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on the फॉक्स संजाल in the संयुक्त राज्य on सितंबर  13 , 2005 .
The show is based on forensic anthropology and forensic archaeology , with each episode focusing on an FBI case file concerning the mystery behind human remains brought  by एफबीआई खास एजेंट seeley बूथ ( दाउद boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist dr. temperance `` हड्डियों '' ब्रेनन ( एमिली deschanel  ) .
The rest of the main  डाल शामिल michaela conlin , T. J. thyne , eric millegan ,  Tamara Taylor , Jonathan Adams , and John Francis Daley .
Created by Hart Hanson , the series is very loosely based on the life and writings of  उपन्यासकार और forensic anthropologist कैथी reichs , जो भी produces  the show .
Its title character , Temperance Brennan , is named  बाद the समर्थक of reichs ' अपराधों अनोखा श्रेणी  .
Conversely , Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels based  around a fictional ( in the हड्डियों ब्रह्मांड ) forensic anthropologist  named Kathy Reichs .
Bones is a joint  उत्पादन by जोसेफसन entertainment , दूर फ़ील्ड प्रोडक्शन्स और 20th  Century Fox Television .
The series has completed airing  इसके आठवीं ऋतु और रै महरूम नवीनीकृत लिये a  ninth season .
Super Bowl XXV was an American football game between the American Football  सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियन भैंस बिल्स और the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) चैंपियन नई यॉर्क दिग्गज to decide the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) चैंपियन लिये the  1990 season .
the दिग्गज पराजित the बिल्स by the स्कोर of 20–19 , जीतना  their second ever Super Bowl .
It is the  तभी सुपर कटोरी decided by  one point .
The game was held at  tampa स्टेडियम in tampa , फ्लोरिडा , on जनवरी 27 , 1991 , दौरान the  height of the Gulf War .
It was  यूँ निभाई अंतर्गत  much patriotic fervor .
The proceedings included a  rousing rendition of `` the star-spangled ध्वज `` by व्हिटनी ह्यूस्टन दौरान  the pregame ceremonies .
The Bills and their explosive  no-huddle ठोकर यहूद बनाना उनके पहला सुपर कटोरी रूप बाद finishing  the regular season with a 13-3 record , and leading the league in total points scored with 428 .
In advancing to their second  सुपर कटोरी , the दिग्गज भी posted a 13-3 नियमित ऋतु रिकार्ड , लकिन साथ a ball-control  offense and a defense that allowed a league low 211 points .
The game is best  remembered लिये बिल्स placekicker स्कॉट नॉर्वुड 's last-second फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य attempt जिससे गई चौड़ी सही of the uprights  , leading to a Giants victory , and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills .
The  दिग्गज नियत a सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड पकड़कर कब्ज़ा of  the ball for 40 minutes and 33 seconds .
New York  भी overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit , और बना  a 75-yard touchdown drive that consumed a Super Bowl record 9:29 off the clock .
Giants running back Ottis Anderson , who  carried the बॉल 21 टाइम्स लिये 102 गज और एक touchdown , थी नामित सुपर कटोरी mvp  .
He was the  पहला awardee to प्राप्त the newly नामित `` पीट rozelle ट्रॉफी '' ( नामित लिये the पूर्व  commissioner ) .
Anderson also recorded one  रिसेप्शन लिये सात गज .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born  मैल्कम छोटी और भी ज्ञात as el-hajj malik el-shabazz ( ) , थी an african-american मुस्लिम मंत्री और  human rights activist .
To his admirers , he was a  साहसी एडवोकेट लिये the अधिकारों of अश्वेतों , a man जो indicted श्वेत  America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans .
Detractors accused him  of उपदेश जातिवाद , ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता  , and violence .
He has been called one of the greatest and most  influential अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी in इतिहास  .
Malcolm X 's father  died—killed by श्वेत supremacists , it थी rumored—when he थी यंग ,  and at least one of his uncles was lynched .
When he was 13 , his  माँ थी लगाई in a दिमागी हॉस्पिटल , और he थी लगाई  in a series of foster homes .
In 1946 , at  आयु 20 , he गई to थाना लिये  breaking and entering .
In prison , Malcolm X became a member of the Nation of Islam ; after his  पैरोल in 1952 , he जल्दी रोज़ to become एक of इसके नेताओ  .
For a dozen  सालो , मैल्कम x थी the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह , लकिन मोहभंग साथ स्वदेश of islam सिर  Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964 .
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East , he returned to the  संयुक्त राज्य , जहाँ he संस्थापित मुस्लिम मस्जिदे , inc. और the संगठन of afro-american एकता  .
In February 1965 , less  than a साल बाद leaving the स्वदेश of islam , he थी assassinated  by three members of the group .
मैल्कम x 's expressed मान्यताओं बदला substantially  over time .
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white  अमेरिकी —in कंट्रास्ट to the सिविल अधिकारों गति 's जोर on संयोजन  .
After  तोड़कर साथ the स्वदेश of islam in 1964—saying  of his association with it , `` I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now .
I was a zombie then ... pointed in a certain direction and told to  कूच '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम , he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ , he जारी  to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
The third season of 90210  , an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी , premiered on सोमवार सितंबर 13 ,  2010 .
The CW  officially नवीनीकृत the दिखाएँ लिये a तीसरा  season on February 16 , 2010 .
With  the खुलासा of the संजाल पतन 2010 अनुसूची , वे घोषित  their decision to move 90210 to Monday nights at 8:00 pm , as a lead-in to Gossip Girl .
It premiered on September 13 , 2010 and was  मिले साथ generally धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों  .
the ऋतु चयन up at the समाप्त of गर्मियाँ और focuses  on the students senior year of high school .
It follows Adrianna 's rise to fame , a new  संबंध between चांदी और navid और a उलझन टेडी जो decides to खुलासा to उसके  family and friends he is gay .
It  भी सौदे साथ the aftermath  of Naomi Clark 's assault .
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes , Tristan Wilds ,  annalynne mccord , रयान eggold , जेसिका stroup , माइकल steger , जेसिका  Lowndes , Matt Lanter , Gillian Zinser , Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin .
Rebecca  sinclair जारी उसके भूमिका as कार्यपालिका  producer for the season .
The  ऋतु premiered to 1.96 लाख दर्शक और a 0.9 दरजा  in the adults 18–49 demographic .
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday  दीवानगी '' , hit ऋतु highs  in all key demos with 2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34 , a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49 .
It was also the most watched  एपीसोड in over a साल साथ 2.2 लाख दर्शक ट्यूनिंग in .
The  ऋतु finale aired on may 16  , 2011 .
the ऋतु averaged 1.75 लाख सजीव दर्शक  and a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating .
It was released on DVD in  the संयुक्त राज्य on अगस्त 30 , 2011 .
Elizabeth II (  एलिज़ाबेथ एलेक्जेंड्रा मरियम ; born 21 अप्रैल 1926 ) is the संवैधानिक monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य , ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms , और उनके territories  and dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of  इंग्लैण्ड और , in कुछ of उसके realms , carries the शीर्षक of defender of the आस्था as भाग of उसके पूरा  title .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven  स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल देशों : the संयुक्त किंगडम , कनाडा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , नई जीलैंड , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , पाकिस्तानी और ceylon  .
From 1956 to 1992 , the number  of उसके realms varied as territories gained स्वतंत्रता  and some realms became republics .
At present , in addition to the first four aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados , the Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon  आइलैंड्स , तुवालू , संत लूसिया , संत विंसेंट और the grenadines , बेलीज़ , अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा और संत किट्स  and Nevis .
Her reign of years is  फिलहाल the दूसरी longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया रै reigned longer  at over 63 years .
Elizabeth was born  in लंदन और शिक्षित privately  at home .
उसके पिता acceded to the सिंहासन as जार्ज vi in 1936 on the abdication of  his brother Edward VIII , from which time she was the heir presumptive .
She  began to undertake पब्लिक कर्तव्य दौरान  the Second World War , in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947 , she  शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप , ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग , साथ जिसको वो रै  four children : Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
Her  राजतिलक सेवा took प्लेस in 1953 और थी the पहला  to be televised .
The Queen  's अनेक ऐतिहासिक विज़िट और बैठक शामिल a राज्य विज़िट to the गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड और reciprocal  visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen  रै देखी प्रमुख संवैधानिक परिवर्तन in उसके realms , ऐसे as devolution in the संयुक्त किंगडम और the  patriation of the Canadian constitution .
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children , the births of her grandchildren ,  the प्रतिष्ठापन of the प्रिंस of वेल्स , और the जश्न of माइलस्टोन ऐसे as उसके चांदी , सुनहरी , और डायमंड jubilees in 1977 , 2002 ,  and 2012 , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the  परेशानियों in उत्तरी आयरलैंड , the falklands युद्ध , युद्धों साथ इराकी और the  War in Afghanistan .
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56 , the assassination of Prince  फिलिप 's ताऊ , रब माउंटबेटन , the विश्लेषण of उसके children 's विवाह in 1992 ( a साल deemed उसके annus horribilis ) , the  death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced  कठोर दबायें आलोचना of the royal परिवार और रिपब्लिकन sentiments , लकिन support लिये the साम्राज्य और उसके  personal popularity remain high .
The 2010 United States Senate election in Florida took place  on नवम्बर 2 , 2010 साथ साथ अन्य चुनावों to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट in अन्य राज्य as खूब as सब चुनावों to  the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections .
Republican Marco Rubio , former Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives ,  पराजित स्वतंत्र चार्ली crist और डेमोक्रेट kendrick नम्र in a three-way  race .
One term Senator Mel Martinez was elected  in a बहुत बंद रेस विरूद्ध डेमोक्रेट बेट्टी अरंडी in 2004 साथ 49  % of the vote .
Martinez announced on December 2 , 2008 that  he होता नहीं तलाश re-election to the सीनेट , और होता इस्तीफा prior to the  end of his term .
In August 2009 ,  राज्यपाल चार्ली crist घोषित कि he होता नियुक्त  his former Chief of Staff , George LeMieux , a Republican , to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez .
Governor Crist publicly  घोषित he थी कार्यशील लिये the सीट  in mid-2009 .
At the time he received many Republican endorsements , such as  the नेशनल रिपब्लिकन senatorial कमेटी , मार्टिनेज , और the 2008 रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय nominee  John McCain .
His  support of the अमरीकी रिकवरी और reinvestment  Act of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives , and candidate Marco Rubio surged .
In April 2010 Crist  घोषित he होता बूँद आउट of the रिपब्लिकन प्राथमिक और चलाएं as an स्वतंत्र  .
The National Republican Senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement of  crist और मांगे a refund of इसके अभियान निधि कि it provided लिये the crist अभियान  .
Congressman  kendrick नम्र थी the पहला डेमोक्रेट to घोषित  his intention to run .
सिकंदर snitker थी the पहला सदस्य of the libertarian पार्टी  on the ballot for senator in Florida 's history .
उपग्रह दृश्य  of Doha
Doha ( , ' or ' , literally :  `` the बिग पेड़ '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the राज्य of क़तर  .
Located on the  coast of the पारसी गल्फ  ,
it had a  जनसांख्यिकी of 998,651 in 2008 , और is भी  one of the municipalities of Qatar .
Doha  is क़तर 's largest नगर , साथ over 60 % of the स्वदेश 's जनसांख्यिकी residing in दोहा or इसके surrounding  suburbs , and is also the economic centre of the country .
Doha also serves as the seat of  सरकारी of क़तर , जिससे is शासित by शेख़ हमद बिन खलीफा al थानी  .
दोहा is घर to the शिक्षा नगर  , an area devoted to research and education .
Doha was the site of the first  ministerial-level बैठक of the दोहा विकास गोलाकार of संसार व्यापार संगठन  negotiations .
The city of  दोहा आयोजित the 2006 एशियाई खेल , जिससे थी the  largest Asian Games ever held .
Doha also hosted the 2011  पण अरब खेल और सबसे of the खेल at the 2011  AFC Asian Cup .
Doha hosted the UNFCCC Climate  negotiations ( cop 18 ) दिसम्बर 2012 और होगा मेजबान a विशाल क्रमांक of the venues लिये the 2022 फीफा संसार  Cup .
The  संसार पेट्रोलियम परिषद आयोजित the 20th संसार पेट्रोलियम सम्मेलन  in Doha in December 2011 .
paranasal साइनस हैं a समूह of चार युग्म air-filled स्पेसेस कि घेर the nasal गुहा ( ऊर्ध्वहनु साइनस ) , ऊपर  the eyes ( frontal sinuses ) , between the eyes ( ethmoid sinuses ) , and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ) .
The sinuses are named  लिये the फेशियल हड्डियों in जिससे वे हैं स्तिथ  .
Lean manufacturing , lean enterprise , or lean production , often simply , `` Lean , '' is a  उत्पादन अभ्यास कि considers the व्यय of संसाधन लिये कोई लक्ष्य अन्य than the सृष्टि of मान लिये the समाप्त ग्राहक to be अपव्यय , और यूँ a निशाना  for elimination .
Working from the perspective of the customer who consumes a product or service  , `` मान '' is पारिभाषित as कोई कार्रवाई or प्रक्रम कि a ग्राहक होता be willing to  pay for .
essentially , झुकना is केन्द्रित on  preserving value with less work .
Lean  निर्माण is a प्रबन्धन दर्शनशास्त्र निकला ज़्यादातर इससे the टोयोटा उत्पादन प्रणाली ( tps ) ( hence the पद toyotism is भी  prevalent ) and identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s .
TPS is  प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके फ़ोकस on कटौती of the असली टोयोटा सात wastes to improve overall ग्राहक मान  , but there are varying perspectives on how this is best achieved .
The  स्थिर विकास of टोयोटा , इससे a छोटी कम्पनी to the संसार 's largest automaker  , has focused attention on how it has achieved this success .
icarly लोगो
icarly is an अमरीकी sitcom कि airs on निकलोडियन  , which premiered on September 8 , 2007 .
Nickelodeon promoted many  एपीसोड so दूर ऐसे as `` ido '' , `` ihire an idiot '' , `` ipity the nevel '' , `` idate sam & फ्रेडी ''  , etc . as specials , despite their being regular episodes .
Every  एपीसोड शीर्षक begins साथ a निम्नतर मामला i जिससे represents  the internet , as in `` iCarly '' .
The show  थी मनोनीत लिये an एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया  Children 's Program in 2009 .
the श्रेणी अभिनीत मिरांडा cosgrove as कार्ली शे , a 13-year-old  who becomes an Internet star .
The  श्रेणी ended on नवम्बर 23 , 2012 साथ the one-hour खास  episode `` iGoodbye '' .
A total of 7 seasons  और 109 एपीसोड यहूद ब्रॉडकास्ट .
The largest audience of the  श्रेणी थी 11.2 लाख दर्शक , साथ the खास एपीसोड `` isaved अपना जीवन '' premiered  in January 2010 .
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and her  sassy बेहतरीन dost sam ( jennette mccurdy ) अधिनियम मजेदार at a स्कूल हुनर दिखाएँ ऑडिशन , tech-savvy फ्रेडी  ( Nathan Kress ) tapes it and posts it online without telling them .
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and  banter , the ऑनलाइन दर्शक clamors लिये अधिक और the icarly वेबकास्ट  is born .
While grappling with typical issues of adolescence , Carly , Sam , and Freddie find out that they have also become online  हस्तियाँ as उनके दिखाएँ – जिससे सुविधाएँ हुनर प्रतियोगिताओं , व्यंजनों , problem-solving , और यादृच्छिक नाचना – garners अंतरराष्ट्रीय accolades  .
Carly lives in Seattle , Washington  साथ उसके 26-year-old bhai और संरक्षक स्पेंसर ( जेरी trainor ) और produces  the show in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment .
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned , but their father , Steven Shay ( David Chisum ) , is  a u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स अधिकारी temporarily stationed on a पनडुब्बी , और is प्रायः उल्लेखित लकिन is तभी देखी in व्यक्ति दौरान the श्रेणी finale एपीसोड , `` igoodbye  '' .
Westlife were an Irish boy  बैंड जिससे formed in 1998 और disbanded  in 2012 .
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and managed by Louis Walsh , the  समूह 's फाइनल line-up consisted of nicky byrne , kian egan , चिह्नित feehily  and Shane Filan .
Brian McFadden was a member from 1998  जबतक उसके प्रस्थान in 2004 .
Westlife sold over 50 million  रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी , a कुल कि शामिल स्टुडियो एल्बम , singles , वीडियो  releases , and compilation albums .
The group accumulated 14 number-one  singles in the संयुक्त किंगडम ( the third-highest in uk इतिहास ) , tying साथ चट्टान रिचर्ड  and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley .
They achieved a total of 26 top ten  singles over उनके 14-year करियर .
By 2010 , Westlife was  सूचीबद्ध in the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड , as the uk 's top-selling एल्बम समूह of the 21st  century .
They  भी जीती the रिकार्ड of the साल ( the तभी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार आधारित on पब्लिक मत in the uk ) a record-breaking चार टाइम्स और in 2012 , the आधिकारिक चार्ट कम्पनी सूचीबद्ध  Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history .
Despite their European and Asian success ,  westlife never प्रबंधित to ब्रेक into the u.S. मार्केट , achieving तभी  one hit single in 2000 : `` Swear It Again `` .
In October 2011 ,  westlife घोषित उनके इरादे to विभाजित in 2012 , following उनके महानतम हिट्स दौरे और  the release of their Greatest Hits album .
The  boyband 's फाइनल कॉन्सर्ट यहूद आयोजित on 22  and 23 June 2012 at Croke Park Stadium in Dublin .
the पहला विदाई कॉन्सर्ट , offering 85,000 टिकटें , बेची आउट in a record-breaking  5 minutes and the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide .
Vitamin A is a  समूह of nutritionally असंतृप्त hydrocarbons , जिससे शामिल रेटिनॉल , retinal , retinoic एसिड और अनेक provitamin a carotenoids  among which beta-carotene is the most important .
Vitamin A has multiple functions , it is important for growth and  विकास , लिये the मेंटेनेंस of the प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली और  good vision .
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of  retinal , जिससे combines साथ प्रोटीन opsin to रूप rhodopsin the light-absorbing अणु , कि is जरुरी लिये दोनो low-light  ( scotopic vision ) and color vision .
Vitamin A also functions in a very different  भूमिका as an irreversibly oxidized रूप of रेटिनॉल ज्ञात as retinoic एसिड , जिससे is an महत्वपूर्ण hormone-like विकास फ़ैक्टर लिये epithelial  and other cells .
In foods of animal origin , the major  रूप of विटामिन a is an ester , primarily retinyl palmitate  , which is converted to retinol ( chemically an alcohol ) in the small intestine .
The retinol form  कृत्यों as a भंडार रूप of the विटामिन , और can be परिवर्तित to और इससे इसके visually क्रियाशील  aldehyde form , retinal .
The associated acid ( retinoic acid ) , a metabolite that can be irreversibly  synthesized इससे विटामिन a , रै तभी आंशिक विटामिन a कार्यकलाप , और करता नहीं फलन  in the retina for the visual cycle .
Retinoic acid is used  लिये विकास और सेल्यूलर differentiation  .
All forms of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid  कड़ी is संलग्न , पुकारा a retinyl समूह .
Both structural features are  अनिवार्य लिये विटामिन कार्यकलाप  .
The orange  रंजक of गाजर – beta-carotene – can be represented as दो कनेक्ट retinyl समूह  , which are used in the body to contribute to vitamin A levels .
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene also have a single  retinyl समूह , जिससे दे उन्हें कुछ विटामिन कार्यकलाप  .
None of the other  carotenes have विटामिन कार्यकलाप  .
The  carotenoid शर्तa- cryptoxanthin possesses  an ionone group and has vitamin activity in humans .
Vitamin A can be  मिला in दो प्रिंसिपल फ़ॉर्म in भोजन  :
Retinol , the form of vitamin A absorbed when  खाने एनिमल खाना स्त्रोत , is a पीला , fat-soluble पदार्थ  .
Since the pure alcohol form is unstable ,  the विटामिन is मिला in ऊतकों in  a form of retinyl ester .
It is also commercially produced  और administered as esters ऐसे as retinyl एसीटेट or palmitate  .
The carotenes alpha-carotene , beta-carotene , gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings )  , लकिन no अन्य carotenoids , फलन as provitamin a in herbivores और सर्वाहारी पशु , जिससे possess the एंजाइम ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) जिससे cleaves beta-carotene  in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol .
In general , carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids , and  pure carnivores ऐसे as बिल्लियों और ferrets कमी 15-15'-dioxygenase और can नहीं बदलें कोई carotenoids  to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin A for these species ) .
सेलिना मारी गोमेज़ ( born जुलाई 22  , 1992 ) is an American singer and actress .
She made her debut as a  चाइल्ड अभिनेत्री in बार्नी & मित्रों  .
In  2007 , गोमेज़ आए to prominence as a अभिनीत डाल सदस्य in the टेलीविज़न  series Wizards of Waverly Place .
She  हस्ताक्षरित to हॉलीवुड रिकॉर्ड the following साल , और became the  founder and lead singer of the pop band Selena Gomez & the Scene .
Their  स्टुडियो एल्बम चुंबन & बताना ( 2009 ) , a साल बगैर बरसात ( 2010 ) , और जब the सूर्य goes bas ( 2011 ) यहूद certified सुनहरा by the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ  of America ( RIAA ) and have spawned Platinum-certified singles `` Naturally `` , `` Who Says `` , and `` Love You like a Love Song `` .
बाद the रिलीज of टेलीविज़न films और उनके accompanying soundtracks , गोमेज़ बना उसके नाट्य फिल्मी  debut in Ramona and Beezus in 2010 and starred in Monte Carlo in 2011 .
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly Place and the  अंतराल of सेलिना गोमेज़ & the झाँकी in 2012 , वो केन्द्रित on उसके फिल्मी करियर , सेवारत as a आवाज़ अभिनेत्री in होटल  Transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year .
Her debut solo album  is tentatively अनुसूचित to be released in गर्मियाँ 2013 , और is preceded by इसके  lead single `` Come & Get It `` .
बाहर of उसके कार्य in the entertainment उद्योग , गोमेज़ is शामिल in परोपकारी  activities through charity work and various social and environmental causes .
Tracie  monique स्पेंसर ( born जुलाई 12 , 1976 ) is an अमरीकी r & b और पॉप singer-songwriter  , actress , and model .
Sacramento is the  पूंजी नगर of the u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the सीट of सरकारी  of Sacramento County .
It is  स्तिथ at the संगम of the sacramento नदी और the अमरीकी नदी  in the northern portion of California 's expansive Central Valley .
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891  , it is the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the 35th largest नगर in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Sacramento is the core cultural and  आर्थिक बीच of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल सात काउंटी साथ  an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth  largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया बाद the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल , सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल , और the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल , as खूब  as the 25th largest in the United States .
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as  अमेरिका 's सबसे ethnically और racially एकीकृत नगर  in 2002 .
sacramento became a नगर through the प्रयत्न of the स्विस अप्रवासी जॉन sutter , sr. , उसके बेटे जॉन sutter  , Jr. , and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection  of sutter 's फोर्ट , जिससे थी स्थापित by sutter in  1839 .
During the California Gold  फटाफट , sacramento थी a प्रमुख वितरण पाइंट , a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच , और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल , stagecoaches , riverboats , the टेलीग्राफ ,  the Pony Express , and the First Transcontinental Railroad .
California State  विश्वविद्यालयों , sacramento , अधिक commonly ज्ञात as sacramento राज्य or  Sac State , is the largest local university .
It  is एक of the twenty-three campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों  system .
drexel विश्वविद्यालयों sacramento is स्तिथ  in Downtown , Sacramento .
विश्वविद्यालयों of the प्रशांत 's mcgeorge स्कूल  of Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the  विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , डेविस is स्तिथ in आसपास डेविस ,  west of the capital .
The UC Davis  चिकित्सा बीच , a world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल , is स्तिथ in the  city of Sacramento .
Memorial Day is a United States federal holiday which occurs every  साल on the फाइनल सोमवार of  May .
Memorial Day is  a दिन of remembering the मेन और महिलाओं जो died जबकि सेवारत  in the United States Armed Forces .
Formerly known  as सजावट दिन , it originated बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध to commemorate the संघ और confederate सैनिको जो died in  the Civil War .
By the 20th  सदी मेमोरियल दिन था महरूम विस्तारित to सम्मान सब  Americans who have died in all wars .
It typically marks the start of the summer  अवकाश ऋतु , जबकि मजदूर दिन marks इसके समाप्त  .
Many people visit cemeteries and  memorials , विशेषकर to सम्मान those जो have died in सैन्य  service .
Many volunteers place an  अमरीकी ध्वज on प्रत्येक संगीन in नेशनल कब्रिस्तान  .
By the early 20th century , Memorial Day was an occasion for more general  expressions of मेमोरी , as लोगों visited the क़ब्रों of उनके मृतक रिश्तेदारों in गिरिजाघर कब्रिस्तान , whether वे था परोसा  in the military or not .
It  भी became a long वीकेंड increasingly devoted to खरीदारी , परिवार महफिलों , आतिशबाजी , यात्राएँ  to the beach , and national media events .
Annual Decoration Days for  particular कब्रिस्तान हैं आयोजित on a संडे in लेट वसन्त or जल्दी गर्मियाँ in कुछ ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों of the  American South , notably in the mountains .
In cases involving a  परिवार graveyard जहाँ रिमोट पूर्वजो as खूब as those जो यहूद मृतक अधिक recently हैं दफ्न , इस may लो on the अक्षर of an विस्तारित परिवार  reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles .
People gather on the designated day  और put पुष्प on क़ब्रों और नवीनीकृत सम्पर्क साथ kinfolk और  others .
There often is a religious service and a `` dinner  on the मैदान , '' the परंपरागत पद लिये a potluck भोजन in जिससे लोगों प्रयुक्त to स्प्रेड the बर्तन आउट on चादरें or चौके on  the grass .
It is believed that this practice began before the American  सिविल युद्ध और यूँ may प्रतिबिंबित the रियल उत्पत्ति of the `` मेमोरियल दिन ''  idea .
Memorial Day is not to be confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men  और महिलाओं जो died जबकि सेवारत , जबकि दिग्गजों दिन मनाता the सेवा of सब u.S. सैन्य  veterans , living or dead .
Mt . Zion Church state history  मार्कर निकट फिलाडेल्फिया , मिसिसिपी  .
Freedom Summer ( also known as the  मिसिसिपी गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट ) थी a अभियान in the संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ in जून 1964 to attempt to पंजीकरण as अनेक अफ़्रीकी  American voters as possible in Mississippi , which had historically excluded most blacks from voting .
The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools ,  स्वतंत्रता घरों , और जातियाँ centers in छोटी कस्बों throughout मिसिसिपी to सहायता the लोकल ब्लैक जनसांख्यिकी  .
The project was  व्यवस्थित by the परिषद of federated संगठन ( cofo ) , a गठबन्धन of the मिसिसिपी शाखाओं of the चार  major civil rights organizations ( SNCC , CORE , NAACP and SCLC ) .
Most of the impetus , leadership , and  financing लिये the गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट आए इससे the sncc .
Robert Parris  मूसा , sncc फ़ील्ड सचिव और co-director of cofo , निर्देशित  the summer project .
Blues is  the नाम दिए to दोनो a musical रूप और a म्यूज़िक विधा कि originated in समुदायों of primarily the `` गहन दक्षिण `` of the संयुक्त राज्य around the समाप्त of the 19th सदी  from spirituals , work songs , field hollers , shouts and chants , and rhymed simple narrative ballads .
The blues form , ubiquitous in jazz , rhythm and blues , and rock and roll  is characterized by विशिष्ट कॉर्ड progressions , of जिससे the twelve-bar ब्लूज़ कॉर्ड progression  is the most common .
The blue notes that , for expressive purposes are sung or played flattened or  धीरे झुकी ( नाबालिग 3rd to प्रमुख 3rd ) in संबंध to the पिच of the प्रमुख स्केल , हैं भी an महत्वपूर्ण  part of the sound .
The blues genre is based on the  ब्लूज़ रूप लकिन possesses अन्य विशेषताएँ ऐसे as विशिष्ट  lyrics , bass lines , and instruments .
Blues can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from  देश to शहरी ब्लूज़ कि यहूद अधिक or कम लोकप्रिय दौरान अलग  periods of the 20th century .
Best  ज्ञात हैं the डेल्टा , piedmont , जम्प , और  Chicago blues styles .
World War II marked the  परिवर्तन इससे ध्वनिक to इलेक्ट्रिक ब्लूज़ और the प्रगतिशील खोलने of ब्लूज़ म्यूज़िक to a  wider audience , especially white listeners .
In the 1960s and  1970s , a संकर रूप पुकारा blues-rock  evolved .
The term  `` the ब्लूज़ '' refers to the `` ब्लू शैतानों '' , अर्थ वेदना और उदासी ; an जल्दी उपयोग  of the term in this sense is found in George Colman 's one-act farce Blue Devils ( 1798 ) .
Though the use of the phrase in African-American music may be older , it has been attested to since 1912  , जब हार्ट wand 's `` डलास ब्लूज़ `` became the पहला स्वत्वाधिकार ब्लूज़ संयोजन  .
In  गीत the phrase is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to describe a  depressed mood .
A quarter dollar , commonly shortened to quarter , is a coin  लायक 1⁄4 of a संयुक्त राज्य डालर  or 25 cents .
the क्वार्टर रै महरूम उत्पादित  since 1796 .
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination , as opposed  to 20¢ जिससे is अधिक आम in अन्य भाग of the संसार , originated साथ the अभ्यास of dividing  Spanish Milled Dollars into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ) .
At one time `` two bits  `` , i.e . दो wedges , प्रत्येक कील an आठवीं , यूँ a क्वार्टर of the स्पेनी रियल , थी  a common nickname for a quarter .
Day of the  मुर्दे ( ) is a मैक्सिकन अवकाश मनाये throughout मैक्सिको और around the संसार in  other cultures .
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family  और मित्रों to दुवा लिये और याद मित्रों और परिवार सदस्यों जो  have died .
It is particularly celebrated in  मैक्सिको , जहाँ it is a नेशनल अवकाश , और सब  banks are closed .
The  जश्न takes प्लेस on नवम्बर 1 और 2 , in कनेक्शन साथ  the Catholic holidays of All Saints ' Day and All Souls ' Day .
Traditions connected with the holiday include building  निजी altars honoring the मृतक using शुगर skulls , marigolds , और the पसंदीदा  foods and beverages of the departed and visiting graves with these as gifts .
They  भी छोड़ possessions  of the deceased .
Scholars trace the origins of the modern Mexican  अवकाश to स्वदेशी observances डेटिंग वापस सैंकड़ों of सालो और to an एज़टेक पर्व समर्पित to the देवी  Mictecacihuatl .
The holiday has spread  throughout the संसार : in ब्राज़ील , dia de finados is a पब्लिक अवकाश  that many Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches .
In  स्पेन , वहीँ हैं त्यौहार और parades , और , at  the end of the day , people gather at cemeteries and pray for their dead loved ones .
Similar observances occur  elsewhere in यूरोपीय , और similarly प्रसंग जश्न appear in अनेक  Asian and African cultures .
अनीता  Mk VIII .
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark  viii calculators यहूद शुभारम्भ simultaneously in लेट 1961 as the संसार 's पहला all-  electronic desktop calculators .
designed और निर्मित by the घंटी  Punch Co .
in Britain , and marketed  through इसके sumlock comptometer प्रभाग , वे प्रयुक्त वैक्यूम tubes और cold-cathode switching tubes in उनके लॉजिक circuits  and nixie tubes for their numerical displays .
They were the first of a series of desktop  और hand-held इलेक्ट्रॉनिक calculators कि the कम्पनी थी to develop और बेचें अंतर्गत  the ANITA name into the mid-1970s .
George Washington ( – , 1799 ) was the first President of the United States (  1789–1797 ) , the commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध , और एक of the founding fathers of  the United States .
He presided over the convention that  drafted the संविधान , जिससे replaced the आलेख of कनफेडरेशन और स्थापित the स्थिति  of President .
Washington was elected President as the unanimous  चुनाव of the 69 निर्वाचक in 1788 , और he  served two terms in office .
He oversaw the creation of a strong , well-financed  नेशनल सरकारी कि कायम neutrality in the युद्धों raging in यूरोपीय , suppressed विद्रोह , और जीती  acceptance among Americans of all types .
His leadership style established  अनेक फ़ॉर्म और संस्कार of सरकारी कि have महरूम प्रयुक्त चूंकि , ऐसे as using a कैबिनेट  system and delivering an inaugural address .
Further , the peaceful transition  इससे उसके प्रेसिडेंसी to the प्रेसिडेंसी of जॉन एडम्स स्थापित a परंपरा कि continues into  the 21st century .
वॉशिंगटन थी hailed as `` पिता of उसके देश ``  even during his lifetime .
Washington  थी born into the प्रांतीय gentry of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया ; उसके धनवान planter  family owned tobacco plantations and slaves .
After both his father and older  bhai died जब he थी यंग , वॉशिंगटन became personally और professionally संलग्न to the शक्तिशाली विलियम फेयरफैक्स  , who promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier .
वॉशिंगटन जल्दी became a वरिष्ठ अधिकारी in the औपनिवेशिक  forces during the first stages of the French and Indian War .
Chosen by the Second Continental  कॉंग्रेस in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the महाद्वीपीय फौज in the अमरीकी क्रान्ति , वॉशिंगटन प्रबंधित  to force the British out of Boston in 1776 , but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City .
बाद क्रासिंग the डेलावेयर नदी in the मुर्दे of शीत , he पराजित the अंग्रेजों in दो लड़ाइयों , retook  New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause .
क्युकी of उसके रणनीति , क्रांतिकारी शक्तियां captured दो प्रमुख अंग्रेजों सेना at साराटोगा  in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781 .
Historians laud Washington for his selection and  पर्यवेक्षण of उसके सेनापतियों , प्रोत्साहन of मनोबल और क्षमता to थाम साथ the फौज , समन्वय साथ the राज्य राज्यपालों और राज्य मिलिशिया इकाई  , relations with Congress and attention to supplies , logistics , and training .
In battle , however ,  वॉशिंगटन थी repeatedly outmaneuvered by अंग्रेजों सेनापतियों  with larger armies .
After  विजय था महरूम finalized in 1783 , वॉशिंगटन resigned as commander-in-chief बल्कि than seize शक्ति , proving  his opposition to dictatorship and his commitment to American republicanism .
असंतुष्ट साथ the कमजोरियों of the आलेख of कनफेडरेशन , in 1787 वॉशिंगटन  presided over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution .
Elected unanimously as the first President of  the संयुक्त राज्य in 1789 , he attempted to लाओ प्रतिद्वंद्वी गिरोहों साथ to unify the  nation .
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's  कार्यक्रम to अदा बंद सब राज्य और नेशनल कर्ज़ , to implement an प्रभावी कर प्रणाली और to बनाएँ a नेशनल बैंको ( despite विपक्ष  from Thomas Jefferson ) .
Washington proclaimed the  संयुक्त राज्य न्यूट्रल in the युद्धों raging in यूरोपीय बाद  1793 .
He avoided war with Great  ब्रिटेन और गारंटी a दशक of सलाम और लाभप्रद व्यापार by securing the jay सन्धि in 1795 , despite तीव्र  opposition from the Jeffersonians .
Although never officially  joining the federalist पार्टी , he समर्थित  its programs .
Washington 's Farewell  पता थी an influential प्राइमर on रिपब्लिकन पुण्य और a चेतावनी विरूद्ध partisanship , sectionalism , और  involvement in foreign wars .
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and  लौटे to उसके घर , माउंट vernon , और उसके घरेलू जीवन जहाँ he प्रबंधित a किस्में  of enterprises .
he freed सब उसके स्लेव  by his final will .
Washington had a  दृष्टि of a ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली स्वदेश कि होता be  built on republican lines using federal power .
He sought to use the national government to preserve  स्वतंत्रता , improve अवसंरचना , खोलें the पश्चिमी lands , प्रचार कॉमर्स , मिला a स्थाई पूंजी , reduce क्षेत्रीय तनाव और  promote a spirit of American nationalism .
At his death ,  वॉशिंगटन थी eulogized as `` पहला in युद्ध , पहला in सलाम , और पहला in the दिल of  his countrymen '' by Henry Lee .
the federalists बना उसे the प्रतीक of उनके पार्टी लकिन लिये अनेक सालो ,  the Jeffersonians continued to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument .
As the leader of the first successful  क्रान्ति विरूद्ध a औपनिवेशिक साम्राज्य in संसार इतिहास , वॉशिंगटन became an अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतीक लिये मुक्ति और राष्ट्रवाद  , especially in France and Latin America .
फिस्कल साल 2012 u.S. संघीय बिता – नकदी  or Budget Basis .
Fiscal Year  2012 u.S. संघीय  Receipts .
The Budget of the  संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी प्रायः begins as the अध्यक्ष 's प्रस्ताव to the u.S. कॉंग्रेस जिससे अनुशंसा funding स्तर लिये the  next fiscal year , beginning October 1 .
However , Congress is the body required by law  to pass a बजट annually और to submit the बजट passed by दोनो घरों to the अध्यक्ष लिये हस्ताक्षर  .
Congressional decisions are governed  by नियम और विधान regarding the संघीय  budget process .
Budget committees set spending limits for the House and  सीनेट समितियों और लिये appropriations subcommittees , जिससे तब स्वीकृति व्यक्तिगत appropriations बिल्स to allocate funding  to various federal programs .
If Congress  fails to pass an सालाना बजट ( as रै महरूम the मामला चूंकि 2009 ) , a श्रेणी of appropriations बिल्स  must be passed as `` stop gap '' measures .
After Congress approves an appropriations bill , it is sent to  the अध्यक्ष , जो may चिह्न it into विधि , or may वीटो it ( as he होता a बजट जब passed by the कॉंग्रेस ) .
A  vetoed विधेयक is भेजा वापस to कॉंग्रेस , जिससे can pass it into विधि साथ  a two-thirds majority in each chamber .
Congress may also combine all or some  appropriations बिल्स into an omnibus reconciliation  bill .
In addition , the president may request and the Congress may pass  supplemental appropriations बिल्स or आपात supplemental appropriations  bills .
Several government agencies provide  बजट आंकड़ा और विश्लेषण .
These include the Government Accountability  दफ्तर ( gao ) , congressional बजट दफ्तर , the दफ्तर of प्रबन्धन और बजट ( omb ) और  the U.S. Treasury Department .
These agencies  have reported कि the संघीय सरकारी is facing a श्रेणी of महत्वपूर्ण financing  challenges .
In the short-run , tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession and  कर नीति चुनाव , जबकि expenditures have विस्तारित लिये युद्धों , बेरोजगारी बीमे और अन्य सुरक्षा जाल  spending .
In the long-run , expenditures related to healthcare programs such  as medicare और medicaid हैं प्रक्षिप्त to grow तेज़ than the अर्थव्यवस्था overall as the जनसांख्यिकी matures  .
New Guinea ( also , Tok  पिसिन : niugini , डच : nieuw गिनी , और ; historically : पापुआ ) is the  world 's second largest island , after Greenland , covering a land area of 786,000 km2 .
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean , it lies geographically to the east of the  मलय द्वीपसमूह , साथ जिससे it is sometimes शामिल as भाग of a वृहद indo-australian द्वीपसमूह  .
geologically it is a भाग of the वही tectonic  plate as Australia .
When world sea levels were low , the two  साझा shorelines ( जिससे अभी झूठ 100 to 140 मीटर नीचे समुद्र स्तर ) , combining साथ lands अभी inundated into the tectonic महाद्वीप  of Sahul , also known as Greater Australia .
The two landmasses became  अलग जब the क्षेत्रफल अभी ज्ञात as the टोरेस जलसन्धि flooded बाद the समाप्त of the  last glacial period .
Anthropologically , New  गिनी is माना भाग of  Melanesia .
Politically , the western  हाफ of the द्वीप comprises दो इंडोनेशियाई प्रांतों : पापुआ और वेस्ट  Papua .
The  पूर्वी हाफ फ़ॉर्म the मेनलैंड of the देश  of Papua New Guinea .
The island has a population of about 7.5  लाख , साथ a बहुत कम जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व of तभी 8 inh/km2  .
New Guinea is  differentiated इससे इसके drier , खुशामद , और कम fertile दक्षिणी बंटवारा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , by इसके much उच्चतर वर्षा और इसके क्रियाशील volcanic  geology , with its highest point , Puncak Jaya , reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ) .
Yet the two land masses share a similar animal  fauna , साथ marsupials , सहित wallabies और possums , और the egg-laying monotreme , the spiny anteater  , or echidna .
अन्य than bats और कुछ दो दर्जन स्वदेशी कृंतक genera , वहीँ हैं no  pre-human indigenous placental mammals .
Pigs , several  अतिरिक्त प्रजाति of चूहे , और the पूर्वज of the नई गिनी गायन श्वान यहूद introduced साथ इंसान colonization  .
The  इंसान उपस्थिति on the द्वीप तिथियाँ वापस at तनिक 40,000 सालो to the oldest इंसान migrations  out of Africa .
Research indicates that the highlands were an early and independent center of  कृषि , साथ प्रमाण of सिंचाई going वापस at तनिक 10,000 सालो  .
Because of the time depth of its inhabitation and its highly fractured landscape , an unusually high number of  भाषाएं हैं बोला on the द्वीप , साथ कुछ 1,000 भाषाएं ( a फिगर उच्चतर than कि of सबसे महाद्वीपों ) having महरूम catalogued आउट of an अनुमानित  world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects .
Most are classified as  पापुआई भाषाएं , a generally स्वीकृत भौगोलिक पद जिससे a  minority of authors hold to be a genetic one .
A  क्रमांक of ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई भाषाएं हैं बोला on  the coast and on offshore islands .
In the 16th  सदी स्पेनी explorers खोजा the द्वीप  and called it Nueva Guinea .
In recent history western New Guinea  थी शामिल in the डच ईस्ट इंडीज  colony .
The Germans annexed the northern  coast of the पूर्वी हाफ of the द्वीप as जर्मनी नई गिनी in उनके pre–world युद्ध i प्रयत्न to स्थापित themselves as a औपनिवेशिक शक्ति  , whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain .
Following the Treaty of Versailles , the  जर्मनी portion थी awarded to ऑस्ट्रेलिया ( जिससे थी already शासी the अंग्रेजों अर्जी , नामित the territory  of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate .
The eastern half of the  द्वीप थी granted स्वतंत्रता इससे ऑस्ट्रेलिया as पापुआ नई गिनी in  1975 .
The western half gained  स्वतंत्रता इससे the डच in 1961 , लकिन became भाग of इंडोनेशिया जल्द afterwards  in controversial circumstances .
`` The Van Buren Boys '' is the  148th एपीसोड of the sitcom seinfeld , और नाम of a fictional  New York street gang .
Their  चिह्न is क्रासिंग the हैंड्स , साथ एक हाथ साथ  all the fingers 'up ' and spread out .
The other hand has all but the  अंगूठा और सूचक उंगली up , लिये a कुल of आठ (  8 ) .
The gang  is नामित लिये the 8th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , मार्टिन वैन buren  ( who was the first president from New York ) .
This was the  14th एपीसोड लिये the 8th ऋतु  .
It aired on  फ़रवरी 6 , 1997 .
bevo चिह्न
Bevo was a non-alcoholic  malt पेय , or निकट बियर , brewed in the संयुक्त राज्य by the anheuser-busch कम्पनी शुरूआत  in the early 20th century .
bevo enjoyed इसके महानतम कामयाबी दौरान the समय of निषेध , जब बियर , वाइन और आसुत liquors  , were made illegal for thirteen years .
The Anheuser-Busch company  प्रारंभ brewing bevo जब alcoholic पेय यहूद निषिद्ध in 1916  by the United States armed forces .
Production rose greatly with national prohibition in 1919  , और bevo थी by दूर the सबसे लोकप्रिय of the अनेक `` खाद्यान्न पेय  '' or `` near beers '' of the time .
At the peak of its popularity in the early 1920s ,  अधिक than पाँच लाख मामले of bevo यहूद बेची annually  .
Renard with a  मग of bevo , चित्रित in टेरा cotta on the आंतरिक  walls of the Bevo building , St. Louis
Labels  on the बोतलों billed it as  `` Bevo the Beverage '' .
The name `` Bevo '' was coined  इससे the शब्द `` पेय '' और the स्लावी भाषा शब्द लिये बियर `` pivo '' , और थी सुनाया  `` Bee-vo '' .
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` Renard the  फॉक्स `` ( आधारित on the समर्थक of a मध्यकालीन फ्रेंच folk-tale ) , और promotional मग साथ इस अक्षर यहूद  manufactured .
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied cars  in इसके st. लुई दुकानें पुकारा the `` bevo नौकाएँ '' जिससे यहूद प्रयुक्त लिये  promotion .
Seven are believed to have been built on  pierce-arrow 8-cylinder chassis जबकि एक surviving उदाहरण थी आधारित upon 1930 कैडिलैक  353 V8 .
बिलबोर्ड विज्ञापन bevo in trenton  , New Jersey , 1917
A contemporary advertisement read ``  कूलिंग और invigorating , bevo the पेय  .
Order by the case from your grocer  , druggist , or डीलर .  ''
The paper label on the  वापस of the बोतल पढ़ा `` the all-year-round नरम पेय  .
Appetizing -  healthful - पौष्टिक - ताज़ा  .
Milk or  जल may contain जीवाणु  .
BEVO  never करता .  ''
Bevo became part of the  लोकप्रिय संस्कृति of the समय , और is उल्लेखित in विभिन्न लोकप्रिय गीतों और vaudeville  skits of the era .
This led  to द्वितीयक कठबोली उपयोग of the शब्द ; लिये उदाहरण , in अमरीकी सैन्य कठबोली a यंग  and inexperienced officer was called a `` Bevo '' .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों of टेक्सास नामित इसके शुभंकर `` bevo  '' , a name which has stuck to this day .
Irving Berlin included a paean to the drink ,  `` तुम ca n't रहो up on bevo '' , in उसके 1917 फौज revue , यिप यिप  Yaphank .
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg beer and liquor  as खूब as `` homebrew `` , काटें into bevo 's marketshare  .
With sales flattening to 100,000 cases by  1929 , anheuser-busch रोका उत्पादन  .
The Bevo Mill  , st. लुई , in 2008
The Bevo building , with the Renard  अक्षर prominently प्रदर्शित at the किनारे , स्टिल operates as  a bottling facility at their main brewery in St. Louis , Missouri .
the लैंडमार्क bevo मिल , constructed  by August Anheuser Busch , Sr. in 1917 .
It was closed in 2009  , लकिन it reopened in अक्तूबर 2009 अंतर्गत नई स्वामी  .
Bevo is also mentioned in  the छोटी स्टोरी `` the हत्यारे `` by अर्नेस्ट हेमिंगवे ; as खूब as  in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis .
mylanta is an over the काउंटर दवा प्रयुक्त लिये the उपचार  of acid reflux , heartburn , and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ) .
foremilk और hindmilk नमूने  of human breast milk
A glass of  pasteurized गाय मिल्क
Milk is a  श्वेत द्रव उत्पादित by the mammary ग्रंथियों  of mammals .
It is the  प्राथमिक सोर्स of पोषण लिये यंग स्तनधारियों पहले वे  are able to digest other types of food .
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum , which carries the  माँ 's antibodies to the baby और can reduce the रिस्क of अनेक रोगों in the baby .
It also  contains अनेक अन्य nutrients  .
As an  agricultural उत्पाद , मिल्क is निकाली इससे स्तनधारियों  and used as food for humans .
Worldwide , dairy farms  उत्पादित परिचय 730 लाख टन of  milk in 2011 .
India is the  संसार 's largest निर्माता और उपभोक्ता of मिल्क  , yet neither exports nor imports milk .
New  जीलैंड , the यूरोपीय संघ 's 27 सदस्य राज्य  , Australia , and the United States are the world 's largest exporters of milk and milk products .
China  और रूस हैं the संसार 's largest  importers of milk and milk products .
Throughout the world , there are more  than 6 अरब उपभोक्ता of मिल्क और मिल्क  products .
Over 750  लाख लोगों सजीव भीतर  dairy farming households .
Milk is a key contributor to improving nutrition and  खाना सुरक्षा विशेषकर in विकासशील देशों  .
Improvements in livestock and dairy technology  प्रस्ताव significant वादा in reducing गरीबी और कुपोषण in the  world .
Motorcycle speedway , usually referred to as  स्पीडवे , is a मोटरसाइकिल खेल involving चार और  sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit .
Speedway motorcycles use only one gear and have no brakes and  रेसिंग takes प्लेस on a चपटा ओवल track प्रायः consisting of मैल or loosely  packed shale .
प्रतिस्पर्धी उपयोग इस सतह to स्लाइड उनके मशीने बगलों  , powersliding or broadsiding into the bends .
On the  सीधा भाग of the track the मोटरसाइकिल  reach speeds of up .
The  सटीक origins of the खेल हैं अनजान लकिन वहीँ is प्रमाण of a प्रकार of स्पीडवे रेसिंग होने practised in  the USA before the First World War and in Australia in the late 1910s and early 1920s .
There are now both domestic and international  प्रतियोगिताओं in a क्रमांक of देशों सहित the स्पीडवे संसार कप whilst the उच्चतम overall स्कोरिंग व्यक्तिगत in the स्पीडवे ग्रैंड प्रिक्स कार्यक्रम is सुनाया  the world champion .
Speedway is popular in central  और उत्तरी यूरोपीय और to a lesser extent in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और उत्तर अमेरिका  .
A variant of track racing , speedway is administered  internationally by the fédération internationale de motocyclisme  ( FIM ) .
Domestic speedway events  हैं regulated by fim संबद्ध नेशनल मोटर  sport federations .
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible  लिये intestinal अवशोषण of कैल्सियम और  phosphate .
In humans , the most  महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन  D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 )  हैं अद्वितीय as वे constitute कया we जान as विटामिन d और can be ingested इससे the आहार and/or  supplements .
The body can also synthesize vitamin D  ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब सूर्य एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence इसके उपनाम , the `` सनशाइन  vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin , it is not actually an essential  dietary विटामिन in the सख्त भाव , as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by सबसे  mammals exposed to sunlight .
(  बिल्लियों और कुत्तो can नहीं synthesize विटामिन d efficiently  and must receive it in their diet . )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of  यौगिकों ) is तभी scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an सजीव  , and must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with other compounds commonly  पुकारा विटामिन , विटामिन d थी खोजा in an प्रयत्न to ढूँढें the dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी , namely , rickets , the बाल्यकाल  form of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like  अन्य यौगिकों पुकारा विटामिन , in the विकसित संसार विटामिन d is added to स्टेपल  foods , such as milk , to avoid disease due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous  संश्लेषण इससे एक्सपोज़र to धूप as खूब as सेवन इससे the आहार , और it is believed कि संश्लेषण may योगदान generally to the  maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of  विटामिन d इससे सूर्य एक्सपोज़र works in a प्रतिक्रिया लूप कि रोकता toxicity लकिन , क्युकी of अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट रिस्क इससे धूप , no सुझाव  are issued by the Institute of Medicine , USA , for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference Intakes  लिये विटामिन d assume कि no संश्लेषण occurs और कि सब  of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet , although that will rarely occur in practice .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or  25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; और जिससे is the विशिष्ट विटामिन d metabolite कि is measured in सीरम to determine a  person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to  calcitriol , the biologically क्रियाशील रूप of विटामिन D. calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त , regulating the विशेषज्ञता of कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream और  promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys  लिये अन्य उद्देश्य , ऐसे as the अप्रसार , differentiation और apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol भी  affects neuromuscular function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to  prevent osteomalacia or rickets , the प्रमाण लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of विटामिन d supplementation  in the general population is inconsistent .
The best evidence of benefit is for  अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी in मृत्यु  in elderly women .
The Duramax is a  सामान्य मोटर्स डीज़ल इंजन परिवार लिये light- और मीडियम ड्यूटी ट्रक , designed  by Isuzu .
The 6.6-liter Duramax is  उत्पादित by dmax , a संयुक्त venture between gm और isuzu in  Moraine , Ohio .
This engine was initially installed in 2001 model year Chevy and GMC trucks  और रै महरूम an विकल्प चूंकि तब in pickups , वैन , और  medium-duty trucks .
In 2006 , production at Moraine was reportedly  सीमित to लगभग 200,000 इंजन प्रति साल .
On May 9 , 2007 , DMAX  घोषित the उत्पादन of the 1,000,000th duramax v-8 डीज़ल  at its Moraine facility .
duramax  LML
balto .
is also a traditional written  संक्षिप्त लिये बाल्टीमोर , मेरीलैंड  .
Statue of Balto in Central  पार्क ( नई यॉर्क नगर  )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14 , 1933  ) थी a siberian हस्की sled श्वान जो led उसके टोली on the फाइनल लेग of the 1925 सीरम चलाएं to nome , in जिससे डिप्थीरिया antitoxin  was transported from Anchorage , Alaska , to Nenana , Alaska , by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease .
The run  is commemorated by the सालाना iditarod ट्रेल  Sled Dog Race .
balto थी नामित बाद the  Sami explorer Samuel Balto .
Balto  died at the आयु  of 14 .
Professor Stephen  हॉकिंग , ज्ञात लिये होने a सैद्धांतिक physicist , रै  appeared in many works of popular culture .
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level  लक्ज़री car manufactured by निसान , marketed as the `` four-door  sports car '' .
The origins of the Maxima began in July  1976 as the डैटसन 810 , an upscale six-cylinder संस्करण of the bluebird , और थी spun into  its own line in 1981 , having been made continuously since then .
The ``  उच्चिष्ट '' नाम थी लागू धीरे , शुरूआत in 1981  .
Most pre-2004  maximas यहूद निर्मित in oppama , जापानी , जबतक the वर्तमान उत्तर  American Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna , Tennessee .
The `` Maxima '' has also been  लागू to cefiros और चलेगा in विभिन्न बाज़ार  .
Propolis  as छत्ता sealing
Propolis is a resinous mixture  कि मधु मधुमक्खियों collect इससे पेड़ कलियों , sap बहती , or अन्य वनस्पति  sources .
It  is प्रयुक्त as a sealant लिये अनावश्यक खोलें स्पेसेस  in the hive .
propolis is प्रयुक्त लिये छोटी गैप ( लगभग or कम ) ,  while larger spaces are usually filled with beeswax .
Its color varies depending on its  वनस्पति सोर्स , the सबसे आम होने अंधेरा भूरा  .
propolis is स्टिकी at और ऊपर रूम तापमान  , .
At lower temperatures ,  it becomes मुश्किल और बहुत भंगुर  .
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26 , 1948 ) is an American singer ,  songwriter , और multi-instrumentalist , बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the frontman और सीसे सिंगर of the बोस्टन -आधारd चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ  , in which he also plays the harmonica , and occasional piano and percussion .
He is known as the  `` राक्षस of screamin ' '' due to उसके ऊँची  screams and his wide vocal range .
He is also  ज्ञात लिये उसके on-stage  acrobatics .
During  उसके high-energy प्रदर्शन , he प्रायः पोशाक in उज्जवल , रंगीन outfits  with his trademark scarves hanging from his microphone stand .
In the 1970s , Tyler rose  to prominence as the frontman of एरोस्मिथ , जिससे released  such milestone hard rock albums as Toys in the Attic and Rocks .
In  the लेट 1970s और जल्दी 1980s , टायलर  had a heavy drug and alcohol addiction , and the band 's popularity waned .
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and  subsequently कायम गम्भीरता लिये over 20 सालो , लकिन था a पतन साथ नुस्खा painkillers  in the late 2000s , for which he successfully received treatment in 2009 .
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and early 1990s with the albums Permanent  अवकाश , पंप , और मिलेंगी a पकड़ , टायलर became a household नाम और रै remained  a relevant rock icon .
As a result , he  रै चूंकि embarked on अनेक सोलो endeavors सहित अतिथि दिखावे on अन्य कलाकारों ' म्यूज़िक , फिल्मी और tv भूमिकाएँ ( सहित as a न्यायधीश on  American Idol ) , authoring a bestselling book , and solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ) .
However , he has  जारी to रिकार्ड म्यूज़िक और perform साथ एरोस्मिथ , बाद अधिक than  43 years in the band .
The band 's  नवीनतम एल्बम , म्यूज़िक इससे  Another Dimension !
, was released on  नवम्बर 6 , 2012  .
टायलर is शामिल among रोलिंग पत्थरों  100 Greatest Singers .
He was also  क्रमित 3rd on hit parader 's शीर्ष 100 मेटल vocalists  of All Time .
In 2001 he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall  of कीर्ति साथ एरोस्मिथ , और he थी the प्रस्तुतकर्ता जब ac/dc थी inducted into  the Hall of Fame in 2003 .
In 2013 , Tyler and his  songwriting संगी जो पेरी होगा be प्राप्तकर्ता of the ascap संस्थापकों पुरस्कार और होगा भी be inducted into  the Songwriters Hall of Fame .
The liver produces urea in the urea  साईकिल as a बर्बाद उत्पाद of the पाचन of प्रोटीन  .
Normal human adult blood should  contain between 7 to 21 mg of यूरिया नाइट्रोजन प्रति 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dl )  of blood .
व्यक्तिगत laboratories may have अलग सन्दर्भ सीमाएँ , और  this is because the procedure may vary .
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2 , 1940  ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल कोच और कॉलेज और पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी जो थी the सिर कोच of the एनएफएल 's डेट्रॉयट शेर  from 1988 to 1996 .
His 67 wins and 71  नुकसान हैं प्रत्येक the सबसे लिये a सिर कोच in टोली  history .
The Jews ( ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ) , also known as the Jewish  लोगों , हैं a स्वदेश और an ethnoreligious समूह , originating in the israelites or hebrews of the प्राचीन  Near East .
The Jewish ethnicity , nationality , and religion are  strongly interrelated , as judaism is the परंपरागत आस्था of the यहूदी  nation .
converts to judaism , जिनकी औकात as यहूदियों भीतर the यहूदी ethnos is बराबर to those born  into it , have been absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia .
In Jewish tradition , Jewish ancestry is traced to the Biblical patriarchs Abraham ,  इसहाक़ और याक़ूब in the दूसरी मिलेनियम bce .
The modern  राज्य of इसराईल थी स्थापित as a यहूदी nation-state , और defines itself  as such in its Basic Laws .
Its  विधि of वापसी अनुदान the सही of नागरिकता  to any Jew who requests it .
Israel is the only country  जहाँ यहूदियों हैं a बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी  .
Jews also  enjoyed राजनैतिक स्वायत्तता twice पहले in प्राचीन  history .
The first of these periods  lasted इससे 1350 to 586 bce , और encompassed the अवधि of the न्यायाधीशों , the संयुक्त साम्राज्य , और the विभाजित साम्राज्य of the kingdoms  of Israel and Judah , ending with the destruction of the First Temple .
The second was the period of  the hasmonean किंगडम spanning इससे  140 to 37 BCE .
Since the destruction of the First  टेम्पल , सबसे यहूदियों have जिया in diaspora  .
A minority in every country in which they live ( except Israel ) , they have  अक्सर अनुभवी persecution throughout इतिहास , resulting in a जनसांख्यिकी कि रै fluctuated दोनो  in numbers and distribution over the centuries .
The world Jewish population reached a peak of 15  लाख prior to the दूसरी संसार युद्ध , लकिन छह लाख यहूदियों यहूद मारे  in the Holocaust .
Since then the population has risen again and , was estimated at  13.4 लाख by the उत्तर अमरीकी यहूदी आंकड़ा बैंको , or कम than 0.2 % of the कुल संसार जनसांख्यिकी  ( roughly one in every 514 people ) .
According to this report , about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ) , and 39.3 %  in the संयुक्त राज्य ( 5.3 लाख ) , साथ सबसे of the शेष जीना in यूरोपीय  ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ) .
These numbers include all those who consider  themselves यहूदियों , whether or नहीं वे हैं संबद्ध साथ a यहूदी संगठन .
The total world Jewish population ,  however , is मुश्किल to माप  .
in जोड to मुद्दे साथ जनसांख्यिकी methodology , वहीँ हैं halakhic विवादों  regarding who is a Jew and secular , political , and ancestral identification factors that may affect the figure considerably .
कॉर्पस christi बारात  .
आयल on कैनवास by कार्ल  Emil Doepler .
कॉर्पस domini redirects  here .
For other  उपयोग देखिए कॉर्पस domini  ( disambiguation )
The Feast of Corpus Christi ( Latin for Body of Christ ) , also known as  कॉर्पस domini , is a लैटिन रीति liturgical solemnity celebrating the  tradition and belief in the body and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist .
It emphasizes the joy of the  संस्था of the eucharist , जिससे थी observed on पावन गुरुवार in  the somber atmosphere of the nearness of Good Friday .
In the present  रोमन missal , the feast is designated the solemnity  of The Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ .
It is  भी मनाये in कुछ anglican , लूथरन , और बूढ़ा कैथोलिक  Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence .
The feast is liturgically  मनाये on the गुरुवार बाद ट्रिनिटी संडे or , `` जहाँ the solemnity of the सबसे पावन देह और रक्त of मसीह is नहीं a पावन दिन of दायित्व , it  is assigned to the Sunday after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper day '' .
At the end of Holy Mass , there is often  a बारात of the धन्य sacrament , generally प्रदर्शित  in a monstrance .
The procession is  followed by सुनाकर of the धन्य sacrament  .
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the Pope each year in Rome ,  जहाँ it begins at the archbasilica of st. जॉन lateran और makes इसके रास्ता to the basilica of संत मरियम प्रमुख , जहाँ it concludes साथ सुनाकर  .
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found  in the रक्त , the स्तर of जिससे वृद्धि in जवाब to सूजन ( i.e . c-reactive प्रोटीन is  an acute-phase protein ) .
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the  सतह of मुर्दे or मरना कोशिकाएं ( और कुछ प्रकार of जीवाणु ) in अनुक्रम to activate the पूरक  system via the C1Q complex .
CRP is synthesized by the  जिगर in जवाब to कारकों released by macrophages और मोटे कोशिकाएं ( adipocytes  ) .
It is a member of  the pentraxin परिवार  of proteins .
it is नहीं सम्बन्धित to c-peptide  or protein C .
C-reactive protein  थी the पहला पैटर्न मान्यता receptor ( prr  ) to be identified .
The start of the systematic European  colonization of the americas is typically दिनाँक to 1492 , जब a स्पेनी expedition headed by क्रिस्टोफर कोलंबस sailed लिये इण्डिया to खोलें व्यापार लकिन inadvertently  discovered the Americas .
European  conquest , large-scale खोजी और colonization  soon followed .
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied with many internal wars and was slowly  recovering इससे the अनेक मौतों कि the bubonic प्लेग caused , the रैपिड विस्तार at जिससे it grew in माल और शक्ति थी unforeseeable  in the early 1400s .
The first expeditions occurred along the  caribbean coasts on the आइलैंड्स of हिस्पानिओला , प्यूर्टो रीको और क्यूबा , और बाद 1500 विस्तारित into  the interiors of both North and South America .
In 1497 , sailing from the north on behalf of England , John Cabot  उतरा on the उत्तर अमरीकी coast , और a साल बाद , कोलंबस 's तीसरा voyage पहुँचे  the South American coast .
France founded colonies in much of eastern  उत्तर अमेरिका , on a क्रमांक of caribbean आइलैंड्स , और in  South America .
Portugal  colonized ब्राज़ील  .
Eventually , the entire Western Hemisphere came under the control  of यूरोपीय सरकारें , अग्रणी to profound परिवर्तन to इसके लैंडस्केप , जनसांख्यिकी  , and plant and animal life .
In  the 19th सदी अलोन over 50 लाख लोगों बाएँ  Europe for the Americas .
The  post-1492 era is ज्ञात as the काल of the columbian  Exchange .
Keith Richards  ( born 18 दिसम्बर 1943 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी संगीतकार , singer-songwriter और संस्थापक सदस्य of the अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड  the Rolling Stones .
Rolling Stone magazine said Richards had created `` rock 's  महानतम सिंगल देह of riffs '' , रैंकिंग उसे 4th on इसके सूची  of 100 best guitarists .
Fourteen songs Richards  लिखा साथ the रोलिंग पत्थरों ' सीसे vocalist मिक जैगर हैं सूचीबद्ध among रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's `` 500 महानतम  Songs of All Time `` .
Richards ' notoriety  लिये अवैध ड्रग उपयोग तना in भाग इससे अनेक ड्रग busts दौरान the लेट 1960s और 1970s और उसके candour regarding  his addiction to and eventual abstinence from heroin .
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the  androgen समूह और is मिला in स्तनधारियों , सरीसृपों , पक्षियों , और अन्य  vertebrates .
In mammals ,  टेस्टोस्टेरोन is primarily स्रावित in the अंडकोष of males और the अंडाशय of महिलाओं , हालांकि छोटी amounts  are also secreted by the adrenal glands .
It is the  प्रिंसिपल पुरूष sex हार्मोन और an anabolic स्टेरॉयड  .
In men , testosterone plays a key role in the development  of पुरूष reproductive ऊतकों ऐसे as the testis और प्रोस्टेट as खूब as promoting द्वितीयक यौन  characteristics such as increased muscle , bone mass , and the growth of body hair .
In addition ,  टेस्टोस्टेरोन is अनिवार्य लिये स्वास्थ्य और well-being as खूब as the रोकथाम  of osteoporosis .
On average , in adult human  males , the प्लाज्मा विशेषज्ञता of टेस्टोस्टेरोन is परिचय 7–8 टाइम्स as ग्रेट as the विशेषज्ञता in वयस्क इंसान महिलाओं ' प्लाज्मा , लकिन as the metabolic  consumption of testosterone in males is greater , the daily production is about 20 times greater in men .
Females  भी हैं अधिक संवेदनशील to the हार्मोन  .
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is observed in सबसे vertebrates  .
Fish make a  थोड़ा अलग रूप पुकारा 11-ketotestosterone  .
Its counterpart  in कीट is ecdysone  .
These ubiquitous  steroids सुझाएँ कि sex हार्मोन have an प्राचीन  evolutionary history .
क्लस्टर sampling is a sampling तकनीक प्रयुक्त जब `` प्राकृतिक '' लकिन अपेक्षाकृत समरूप  groupings are evident in a statistical population .
It is  प्रायः प्रयुक्त in विपणन शोध  .
In this technique , the total  जनसांख्यिकी is विभाजित into ये समूह ( or क्लस्टर ) और a सरल यादृच्छिक  sample of the groups is selected .
Then the required  सूचना is एकत्रित इससे a सरल यादृच्छिक नमूना of the तत्व भीतर  each selected group .
This may be done for every  तत्व in ये समूह or a subsample of तत्व may be चयनित  within each of these groups .
A common  प्रेरणा लिये क्लस्टर sampling is to reduce the कुल क्रमांक of साक्षात्कार और लागत दिए  the desired accuracy .
Assuming a fixed sample size , the technique gives more accurate results when most of the  विभिन्नता in the जनसांख्यिकी is भीतर the समूह , नहीं between उन्हें .
Jamestown is a town  in guilford काउंटी , उत्तर कैरोलिना , संयुक्त राज्य , और is a उपनगरीय of the आसपास  cities of Greensboro and High Point .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,382 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Natalie Portman ( born Natalie Hershlag ; ;  जून 9 , 1981 ) is an अभिनेत्री और मॉडल साथ डुअल अमरीकी और israeli नागरिकता  .
Her  पहला भूमिका थी as an अनाथ लिया in by a हिटमैन in the 1994 कार्रवाई फिल्मी , लकिन मुख्यधारा कामयाबी आए जब वो थी डाल as padmé amidala  in the Star Wars prequel trilogy ( released in 1999 , 2002 and 2005 ) .
In 1999 , she enrolled at  हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों to पढ़ाई मनोविज्ञान जबकि स्टिल working  as an actress .
She completed her  स्नातक 's उपाधि in  2003 .
In 2001 , Portman opened in New  यॉर्क नगर 's पब्लिक थिएटर उत्पादन of एंटोन चेखव  's The Seagull .
In 2005 , Portman received a nomination for the Academy Award for  बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री और जीती the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन supporting अभिनेत्री - गति चित्र  for the drama Closer .
She won a  नक्षत्र पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन मादा प्रदर्शन और a शनि पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके अभिनीत  role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ) .
She played  अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in the ऐतिहासिक dramas गोया 's भूत ( 2006 ) और the अन्य बोलिन  Girl ( 2008 ) .
In May 2008 , she served  as the youngest सदस्य of the 61st सालाना  Cannes Film Festival jury .
Portman 's directorial debut , Eve , opened the 65th Venice  अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व 's शॉर्ट्स प्रतियोगिता in  2008 .
Portman directed a  खण्ड of the सामूहिक फिल्मी नई यॉर्क , i प्रेम तुम  .
In 2011 , Portman won the Academy Award , the Golden Globe Award , the BAFTA Award , the Screen Actors Guild  पुरस्कार , और the स्वतंत्र स्पिरिट पुरस्कार लिये उसके सीसे प्रदर्शन as नीना sayers  in Black Swan .
Copper  is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक  Cu ( from ) and atomic number 29 .
It is a ductile metal  साथ बहुत ऊँची थर्मल और विद्युत  conductivity .
Pure copper is soft  और malleable ; a freshly उजागर सतह रै a reddish-orange  color .
It is used as a  कंडक्टर of ऊष्मा और विद्युत , a भवन सामग्री , और a constituent of  various metal alloys .
The metal and its alloys  have महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये हज़ारों  of years .
In the Roman era , copper was principally  mined on साइप्रस , hence the उत्पत्ति of the नाम of the मेटल as сyprium ( मेटल of साइप्रस  ) , later shortened to сuprum .
Its compounds are commonly  encountered as तांबे ( ii ) लवण , जिससे प्रायः impart ब्लू or ग्रीन रंगों to खनिज ऐसे as azurite  and turquoise and have been widely used historically as pigments .
Architectural structures built with  तांबे corrode to दे ग्रीन verdigris ( or  patina ) .
Decorative art prominently  सुविधाएँ तांबे , दोनो by itself और as भाग of pigments  .
Copper is essential to all living  जीवों as a ट्रेस dietary खनिज क्युकी it is a कुंजी constituent of the respiratory एंजाइम जटिल  cytochrome c oxidase .
In molluscs and crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood  रंजक hemocyanin , जिससे is replaced by the iron-complexed हीमोग्लोबिन in  fish and other vertebrates .
The main areas where  तांबे is मिला in vertebrates हैं जिगर , मांसपेशी  and bone .
In sufficient concentration , copper compounds are poisonous to higher organisms and are used as  bacteriostatic substances , fungicides , और लकडी preservatives  .
The major  पेशेवर खेल लीग , or बस प्रमुख लीग , in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा हैं the उच्चतम पेशेवर  competitions of team sports in the two countries .
Although  व्यक्तिगत खेल ऐसे as गोल्फ़ , टेनिस , और स्वचालित रेसिंग हैं भी बहुत लोकप्रिय , the पद is प्रायः  limited to team sports .
The term `` major league ''  थी पहला प्रयुक्त in 1921 in सन्दर्भ to प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ) , the शीर्ष स्तर  of professional American baseball .
Today ,  the प्रमुख उत्तरी उत्तर अमेरिका पेशेवर टोली खेल लीग हैं प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल ( एमएलबी ) , the नेशनल बास्केट संघ  ( NBA ) , the National Football League ( NFL ) , and the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
अन्य notable लीग शामिल प्रमुख लीग सॉकर ( mls ) , the कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( cfl ) , the एरिना फ़ुटबॉल लीग , प्रमुख लीग lacrosse , the नेशनल  Lacrosse League and the Women 's National Basketball Association .
The NFL , MLB , NBA , and NHL  हैं commonly referred to as  the Big Four .
Each of these is the richest  पेशेवर क्लबों प्रतियोगिता in इसके खेल  worldwide .
The best players can become cultural icons in both countries and elsewhere in the world , because the leagues enjoy a  significant प्लेस in लोकप्रिय संस्कृति in the us और कनाडा .
The NFL has  32 टीमों , और the अन्य have  30 each .
The vast majority of major league teams  हैं concentrated in the सबसे populous महानगर क्षेत्रों of  the United States .
Baseball , football , hockey , and soccer have had  पेशेवर लीग लिये over 100 सालो ; जल्दी लीग ऐसे as the नेशनल संघ , ओहियो लीग , और नेशनल हॉकी संघ formed the  basis of the modern MLB , NFL and NHL respectively .
Soccer was first  professionalized in 1894 , लकिन लीग suffered greatly इससे कमी of स्थिरता  and seldom lasted more than a decade .
Soccer 's greatest  सफलताओं यहूद in the रूप of the अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ) , the असली उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1968-1984 ) , the नेशनल पेशेवर सॉकर लीग  ( 1984-2001 ) and , currently , Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ) .
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the NBA evolved  इससे the नेशनल बास्केट लीग और इसके splinter समूह the बास्केट संघ of अमेरिका , लेने on  its current form in 1949 .
Every major league  averages 15,000 प्रशंसक in उपस्थिति प्रति खेल or उच्चतर as  of 2011 .
Meridian Altitude is an  खगोलीय नेविगेशन विधि of calculating an निरीक्षक 's अक्षांश  .
Earned value management ( EVM ) , or Earned  मान project/performance प्रबन्धन ( evpm ) is a प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन तकनीक लिये measuring प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन  and progress in an objective manner .
क्युकी evm रै the क्षमता  to combine measurements of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
और cost,
in a single integrated system , Earned Value Management is  समर्थ to provide सटीक forecasts of प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन समस्याएं , जिससे is an महत्वपूर्ण योगदान लिये प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन  .
Early EVM research showed  कि the क्षेत्रों of नियोजन और कंट्रोल हैं significantly impacted by इसके उपयोग ; और similarly , using the methodology improves दोनो पैमाना  definition as well as the analysis of overall project performance .
More recent  शोध अध्ययन have दिखाया कि the सिद्धान्त of evm हैं धनात्मक predictors  of project success .
Popularity of EVM has grown significantly in recent years beyond government  contracting , in जिससे सेक्टर इसके महत्व continues to वृद्धि ( e.g. , हाल नई dfar नियम ) , in भाग क्युकी evm can भी सतह in और  help substantiate contract disputes .
रंगीन वसन्त गार्डन  flowers
Spring is one  of the चार conventional शीतोष्ण सीज़न , following शीत और  preceding summer .
There are various technical  परिभाषाएं of वसन्त , लकिन लोकल उपयोग of the पद varies  according to local climate , cultures and customs .
When it is  वसन्त in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध , it होगा be पतझड़  in the southern hemisphere .
At the spring equinox , days are close to  12 घंटों long साथ दिन लंबाई increasing as the ऋतु progresses  .
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season , and also to  विचार of rebirth , कायाकल्प , नवीकरण , क़यामत , और regrowth , साथ  festivals such as Carnival , Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time .
jamestown थी a उपनिवेश in the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया , the पहला स्थाई अंग्रेज़ी  settlement in the Americas .
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on May 14 , 1607 ( O.S . , May 24 , 1607 N.S . ) , it followed several earlier failed  कोशिशें , सहित the खोया उपनिवेश of roanoke  .
Jamestown  परोसा as the पूंजी of the उपनिवेश लिये 83 सालो ,  from 1616 until 1699 .
The settlement was located  भीतर the territory of a राजनैतिक एंटिटी ज्ञात as tsenacommacah , the राज्य of the powhatan confederacy , साथ  around 14,000 native inhabitants , and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe .
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing , feasting and tobacco ceremonies , and they provided crucial provisions and support for the survival of the colonists , who were not  agriculturally inclined , हालांकि संबंध साथ the newcomers भी soured fairly जल्दी on , अग्रणी to the कुल annihilation of the paspahegh  in warfare within 3 years .
Within a year of Jamestown 's founding ,  the वर्जिनिया कम्पनी brought पॉलिश और डच colonists to सहायता improve the उपनिवेश  .
In 1619 , the first documented Africans were brought to Jamestown ,  हालांकि the आधुनिक धारणा of गुलामी in the भविष्य संयुक्त राज्य किया नहीं शुरू in वर्जिनिया जबतक  1660 .
When the colony was subdivided into the  असली आठ shires of वर्जिनिया in 1634 , the कस्बा became स्तिथ in the eponymous  James City Shire .
The London Company 's second settlement , Bermuda , claims to be the site of the oldest town in the English New World , as  st. जार्ज 's , बरमूडा थी officially स्थापित ( as नई लंदन ) in 1612 , whereas जेम्स फोर्ट , in  Virginia , was not to be converted into James towne until 1619 , and further did not survive into the present day .
In 1699 , the capital was  relocated इससे jamestown to कया is आज williamsburg , बाद जिससे jamestown ceased to मौजूद as a उपनिवेश  , existing today only as an archaeological site .
Today , Jamestown is one of three locations comprising the  ऐतिहासिक त्रिभुज of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया , साथ साथ williamsburg और yorktown , साथ  two primary heritage sites .
Historic Jamestowne , the archaeological site on Jamestown Island , is a  सहकारी प्रयत्न by jamestown नेशनल ऐतिहासिक साईट ( भाग of औपनिवेशिक नेशनल ऐतिहासिक पार्क  ) , and Preservation Virginia .
The  jamestown उपनिवेश , a जीना इतिहास interpretive साईट  , is operated by the Jamestown Yorktown Foundation in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia .
James Christopher Frey ( born September 12 ,  1969 ) is an अमरीकी लेखक  .
His books A  लाख छोटी टुकड़े ( 2003 ) और my dost लियोनार्ड ( 2005 ) , as खूब as उज्जवल चमकदार morning ( 2008  ) , were bestsellers .
He was the subject of a scandal when investigators discovered that prison time and the extent of certain injuries were  अतिरंजित in a लाख छोटी टुकड़े , a अधिकारीगण autobiographical खाता of the लेखक 's संघर्ष साथ व्यसन  .
Deere & Company , most  commonly ज्ञात by इसके नाम जॉन deere , is an अमरीकी निगम आधारित in moline , इलिनोइस , और एक of the largest निर्माताओं  of agricultural machinery in the world .
In 2012 , it was listed as  97th in the सौभाग्य 500 अमेरिका 's रैंकिंग और 190th in the सौभाग्य 500 वैश्विक  ranking .
Deere and Company agricultural products , sold under the John Deere name , include  tractors , combine हार्वेस्टर , कपास हार्वेस्टर , balers , planters / seeders , sprayers  , and UTVs .
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment , as  खूब as a प्रदायक of डीज़ल इंजन और drivetrains ( axles  , transmissions , gearboxes ) used in heavy equipment .
Additionally , John Deere manufactures  उपकरण प्रयुक्त in लॉन , grounds , और turf परवाह , ऐसे as walk-behind लॉन mowers  , zero-turn lawn mowers , lawn tractors , and snowthrowers .
To support the  कोर व्यवसायों , जॉन deere भी provides वित्तीय  services and other related activities .
The company 's slogan is ``  nothing रनों जैसे a deere '' और रै a चित्र of a leaping हिरण as a लोगो , a शब्द खेल pun on `` nothing रनों जैसे  a deer '' .
Carl Westby  coined the phrase `` nothing रनों जैसे a deere '' लिये a विपणन  campaign to sell snowmobiles .
The company 's products are also  identifiable by इसके distinctive शेड of ग्रीन पेंट , प्रायः augmented by  yellow trim .
the संयुक्त राज्य ten-dollar विधेयक ( $ 10  ) is a denomination of United States currency .
The first U.S. Secretary of  the राजकोष ( 1789–95 ) , सिकंदर हैमिल्टन , is फिलहाल प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक , जबकि the  U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse .
( Hamilton is one of  दो non-presidents प्रदर्शित on फिलहाल  issued U.S. bills .
The other is Benjamin  फ्रैंकलिन , on the $ 100 विधेयक  .
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not  born in the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त राज्य , as he थी इससे the वेस्ट इंडीज  .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland ( $  500 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ) ; जार्ज meade , स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस , इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10  1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In addition , Kamehameha  i , appears on the 2008 हवाई राज्य क्वार्टर  . )
All $ 10 bills  जारी आज हैं संघीय आरक्षित टीप  .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing  says the औसत जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced  due to wear .
लगभग 6 % of सब us banknotes मुद्रित in 2009  were $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar bills are  वितरित by संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in पीला  straps .
The source of  the फेस on the $ 10 विधेयक is जॉन trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट संग्रहण of नई यॉर्क  City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is  the तभी u.S. पेपर करेंसी in परिसंचरण in जिससे the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the बाएँ ( the $ 100,000 विधेयक प्रदर्शित a पोर्ट्रेट of  Woodrow Wilson facing to the left , but was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
Andy  सैमुएल ग्रिफ़िथ ( जून 1 , 1926 – जुलाई 3 , 2012 ) थी an अमरीकी कर्ता , टेलीविज़न  producer , Grammy Award -winning Southern-gospel singer , and writer .
He was a Tony Award nominee for two roles , and gained prominence  in the अभिनीत भूमिका in निदेशक एलिया कज़न 's फिल्मी a फेस in the भीड ( 1957 ) पहले he became बेहतर ज्ञात लिये उसके टेलीविज़न भूमिकाएँ ,  playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock .
टेरेसा पेनेलोप `` terri '' इरविन , ( née raines ; born जुलाई 20 , 1964 ) is an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई -आधारd , अमरीकी  -born naturalist , author , the widow of Australian naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah , Queensland , Australia .
She co-starred with her  husband on the मगरमच्छ शिकारी , उनके unconventional टेलीविज़न प्रकृति वृत्तचित्र श्रेणी  along with its spin-off series , Croc Files and The Crocodile Hunter Diaries .
वो रै जिया in ऑस्ट्रेलिया चूंकि 1992 , जब वो शादीशुदा  Steve Irwin .
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the Copernican  प्रणाली , इससे the harmonia macrocosmica ( 1660 ) .
Heliocentrism , or heliocentricism , is  the खगोलीय मॉडल in जिससे the धरती और ग्रह revolve around a अपेक्षाकृत stationary  Sun at the center of the Solar System .
The word comes from the  यूनानी ( helios `` सूर्य '' और kentron `` बीच  '' ) .
historically , heliocentrism थी opposed to geocentrism  , which placed the Earth at the center .
The notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as early as the 3rd century BC by  aristarchus of samos , लकिन aristarchus 's heliocentrism आकर्षित छोटी ध्यान जबतक कोपरनिकस revived  and elaborated it .
Lucio Russo ,  however , argues कि इस is a भ्रामक छाप resulting  from the loss of scientific works of the Hellenistic Era .
Using indirect  प्रमाण he argues कि a heliocentric दृश्य थी expounded  in Hipparchus 's work on gravity .
It was not until the 16th century that a fully  predictive गणितीय मॉडल of a heliocentric प्रणाली थी प्रस्तुत , by the पुनर्जागरण गणितज्ञ  , astronomer , and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland , leading to the Copernican Revolution .
In the following century , Johannes  कॅप्लर elaborated upon और विस्तारित इस मॉडल to शामिल अंडाकार  orbits , and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei .
With the  observations of विलियम हर्शेल , फ्रेडरिक bessel , और अन्य , खगोलशास्त्रियों एहसास कि the सूर्य थी नहीं the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड और  by the 1920s Edwin Hubble had shown that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions .
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar ; March  30 , 1979 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter , pianist , और अभिनेत्री  .
She is  the बेटी of भारतीय सितार खिलाड़ी रवि  Shankar and Sue Jones .
She is also  anoushka शंकर 's half-sister  .
In 2002 , she launched her  सोलो म्यूज़िक करियर साथ the रिलीज of the commercially कामयाब और critically acclaimed एल्बम आइये दूर साथ me , a संलयन of  country music and pop with elements of jazz which was certified diamond album , selling over 26 million copies .
The record earned Jones five  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , सहित the एल्बम of the साल , रिकार्ड of the साल  , and Best New Artist .
Her subsequent studio albums , Feels Like Home , released in 2004 , Not Too Late ,  released in 2007 , the वही साल वो बना उसके फिल्मी डेब्यू in my ब्लूबेरी नाइट्स , और उसके 2009 रिलीज the पतन सब gained प्लेटिनम औकात , selling over a लाख नक़ल और यहूद generally खूब प्राप्त  by critics .
Jones '  पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम , छोटी टूटा दिल , थी released  on April 27 , 2012 .
Jones has won nine  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और थी 60th on बिलबोर्ड पत्रिका  's artists of the 2000–2009 decade chart .
Throughout her  करियर , जोन्स रै जीती numerous पुरस्कार और रै बेची अधिक than 50  million albums worldwide .
बिलबोर्ड नामित उसके the शीर्ष जैज़ कलाकार of  the 2000–2009 decade .
Not  to be उलझन साथ आयाम of a शारीरिक  quantity .
For other  उपयोग , देखिए आयाम  ( disambiguation ) .
From  बाएँ to सही , the वर्गाकार , the  cube , and the tesseract .
The square is bounded by  1-dimensional लाइनों , the घन by 2-dimensional क्षेत्रों , और  the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes .
a प्रक्षेप of the घन is दिए चूंकि it is viewed on  a two-dimensional screen .
The same applies  to the tesseract , जिससे additionally can तभी be दिखाया as a प्रक्षेप  even in three-dimensional space .
A diagram  प्रर्दशित the पहला चार स्थानिक  dimensions .
In physics and  गणित , the आयाम of a स्पेस or ऑब्जेक्ट is informally पारिभाषित as the न्यूनतम क्रमांक of  coordinates needed to specify any point within it .
Thus a line has a  आयाम of एक क्युकी तभी एक निर्देशांक is needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it  ( for example , the point at 5 on a number line ) .
A surface  ऐसे as a प्लेन or the सतह of a बेलन or गोला रै a आयाम of दो क्युकी दो निर्देशांक हैं needed  to specify a point on it ( for example , to locate a point on the surface of a sphere you need both its latitude and its longitude ) .
the अंदर of a घन , a बेलन or a गोला is three-dimensional  because three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces .
In physical terms , dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its position in time ( perceived as a scalar dimension along  the t-axis ) , as खूब as the स्थानिक संविधान of वस्तुएँ within—structures कि correlate साथ दोनो कण और फ़ील्ड conceptions , interact according to सापेक्ष गुण of द्रव्यमान —and हैं fundamentally  mathematical in description .
These , or other axes , may be referenced to  uniquely पहचानो a पाइंट or ढांचा in इसके रवैया और संबंध to अन्य  objects and occurrences .
Physical theories that incorporate time , such as general  आपेक्षिकता , हैं कहा to कार्य in 4-dimensional `` spacetime `` , ( पारिभाषित as a मिन्कोवस्की स्पेस  ) .
Modern theories tend to be ``  higher-dimensional '' सहित क्वांटम फ़ील्ड और स्ट्रिंग  theories .
The state-space of quantum  यांत्रिकी is an infinite-dimensional फलन स्पेस  .
The concept  of आयाम is नहीं प्रतिबंधित to  physical objects .
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences  लिये अनेक कारण , अक्सर as विन्यास स्पेसेस ऐसे as in लाग्रांजीय or हेमिल्टोनीय यांत्रिकी ; ये हैं अमूर्त स्पेसेस , स्वतंत्र of  the physical space we live in .
fontana ( ) is a नगर of 200,762 निवासियों in  San Bernardino County , California .
Founded in 1913 , it remained essentially rural until  संसार युद्ध ii , जब उद्योगों हेनरी J. कैसर निर्मित a विशाल स्टील मिल in the  area .
It is now a regional hub of the trucking industry ,  साथ अंतरराज्यीय 10 और राज्य रूट 210 transecting the नगर इससे ईस्ट to वेस्ट , और अंतरराज्यीय 15 गुजर diagonally through इसके northwestern  quadrant .
It is home to the largest of the San  bernardino काउंटी प्रणाली पुस्तकालयों , a संवर ऐतिहासिक थिएटर , a नगरपालिका पार्क , और the स्वचालित क्लबों स्पीडवे on the साईट of the कैसर  Steel Mill .
Fontana also hosts  the fontana दिनों हाफ मैराथन  and 5K run .
This race is the  तीव्रतम half-marathon कोर्स in the संसार  .
The U.S.  2012 जनसांख्यिकी reported कि fontana 's जनसांख्यिकी थी 200,762 in 2012 , बनाना it the दूसरी सबसे populous नगर in सैन bernardino  county county and 14th in the state .
Cowboys Stadium is a stadium  साथ a retractable छत in आर्लिंगटन , टेक्सास  .
It serves as the home of the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's डलास  Cowboys .
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium ,  जिससे खोली in 1971 , और परोसा as the cowboys ' घर through  the 2008 season .
It was  समाप्त on may 27 , 2009 .
The  स्टेडियम सीटे 85,000 , बनाना it the  third largest stadium in the NFL by seating capacity .
The maximum capacity of the stadium ,  सहित खड़ा रूम , is 105,000 .
The Party Pass (  खोलें क्षेत्रों ) भाग हैं पीछे सीटे in प्रत्येक समाप्त मण्डल और on a श्रेणी of छह  elevated platforms connected by stairways .
It has the world 's  largest column-free आंतरिक और the चौथी largest ऊँची परिभाषा वीडियो स्क्रीन , जिससे  hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line .
The facility can also be used for a variety of other activities outside of  इसके प्रमुख purpose ( पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल ) ऐसे as कॉन्सर्ट , बास्केट खेल , मुक्केबाज़ी मिलान , कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और ऊँची  school football contests , soccer matches , and motocross races .
Canadian  इतिहासकारों जबतक the 1980s tended to फ़ोकस on आर्थिक  history , including labour history .
In part this is because  कनाडा रै था दूर कम राजनैतिक or सैन्य विरोध  than other societies .
This was  विशेषकर सच्चा in the पहला हाफ of the बीसवीं  century when economic history was overwhelmingly dominant .
Many of the most  prominent अंग्रेज़ी कनाडाई इतिहासकारों इससे इस काल यहूद आर्थिक इतिहासकारों  , such as Harold Innis , Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian  इतिहास यहूद वारिस to the परंपराओं कि विकसित in यूरोपीय और the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन frameworks  that worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada .
The heavily Marxist  बहकावे आर्थिक इतिहास कि dominates यूरोपीय रै  little relevance to most of Canadian history .
A focus on class , urban areas , and  उद्योग fails to पता कनाडा 's ग्रामीण और संसाधन  based economy .
Similarly , the monetarist school that  is प्रबल in the संयुक्त राज्य भी रै महरूम मुश्किल to ट्रांसफ़र उत्तर of the  border .
The study of  आर्थिक इतिहास in कनाडा became अत्यधिक केन्द्रित on आर्थिक भूगोल , और लिये अनेक सालो the  dominant school of thought has been the staples thesis .
This school of thought bases the study of the Canadian  अर्थव्यवस्था on the पढ़ाई of प्राकृतिक संसाधन  .
This approach has since  भी become प्रयुक्त बाहर of कनाडा in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and in many developing nations .
Before the arrival of  europeans , the पहला राष्ट्र of कया होता become कनाडा था a विशाल  and vibrant trade network .
Furs , tools , decorative items , and other goods were often transported  हज़ारों of किलोमीटर , ज़्यादातर by कैनो throughout the अनेक नदियाँ और  lakes of the region .
The early European history of the  कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था is प्रायः पढ़ाई through the स्टेपल्स लेख जिससे argues the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था विकसित  through the exploitation of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe .
Carbon-14 , 14C , or radiocarbon , is a radioactive isotope of  कार्बन साथ a केंद्रक containing 6 protons और 8  neutrons .
Its presence in organic materials is the basis of  the radiocarbon डेटिंग विधि pioneered by willard लिब्बी और सहयोगियों ( 1949 ) to तिथि  archaeological , geological and hydrogeological samples .
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February  1940 , by मार्टिन कामेन और sam रूबेन at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया विकिरण प्रयोगशाला in बर्कली  , although its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934 .
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the  कार्बन is carbon-12 , 1 % is carbon-13 , और carbon-14 occurs in ट्रेस amounts , i.e. , बनाना up परिचय 1 भाग प्रति खरब (  0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere .
The half-life of  carbon-14 is 5,730±40  years .
carbon-14 decays into nitrogen-14 through  beta decay .
The primary natural  सोर्स of carbon-14 on धरती is लौकिक रे कार्रवाई upon नाइट्रोजन in the  atmosphere , and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide .
However , open-air nuclear testing  between 1955–1980 contributed to इस पूल  .
The different  isotopes of कार्बन do नहीं differ appreciably in उनके रासायनिक  properties .
This is used in chemical and biological research , in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms can be used to  बदलें nonradioactive कार्बन , in अनुक्रम to ट्रेस रासायनिक और biochemical प्रतिक्रियाएँ involving कार्बन अणु इससे कोई दिए सशुल्क यौगिक  .
Lightning is a highly  दृश्य रूप of उर्जा  transfer
Lightning  हमलों हैं विद्युत discharges on a विशाल स्केल between the माहौल  and an earth-bound object .
वे ज़्यादातर originate in thunderclouds और terminate on the मैदान  , called Cloud to Ground ( CG ) lightning .
However , they may also  be initiated इससे a बहुत लम्बा grounded ऑब्जेक्ट और पहुँचें into  the clouds .
Although `` a lightning strike '' is commonly used to describe all  बिजली , it is बल्कि ग़लत और a misnomer , as तभी परिचय 25 % of सब बिजली कार्यक्रम विश्वव्यापी हैं cg , the विशाल बल्क of बिजली कार्यक्रम हैं intracloud ( ic ) or बादल to बादल ( cc  ) , where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere .
The scientific  नाम लिये the पूरा प्रक्रम of a सिंगल बिजली इवेंट is a और it is a बहुत जटिल , अनेक stepped  interaction , which is not completely understood .
Most CG flashes only ``  स्ट्राइक '' एक शारीरिक स्थान , referred to as a termination  .
The primary conducting channel , the bright coursing light you may see and call a `` strike '' , is only about 1 inch  in व्यास , हालांकि to हमारी आँखें it looks much larger  .
वे हैं मील long , upwards of tens of  miles .
And the entire  फ्लैश , lasts तभी a few भिन्नों of a दूसरी , सबसे of जिससे  is not visible to human eyes .
Thunder is always  उत्पादित by बिजली  .
Just like lightning , that deceives our eyes , usually looking  larger or करीब than it वाकई is , the धरती 's माहौल और हमारी दिमाग 's बोध of the बाहर संसार , ultimately determines  whether it is `` heard '' or not .
Lightning can not  happen in a वैक्यूम विहीन of ions , nor can थंडर occur बगैर  molecules to vibrate .
थंडर is a शारीरिक निरपेक्ष लिये प्रत्येक सिंगल फ्लैश of  lightning .
Contrary to popular belief , a  बिजली स्ट्राइक itself is प्रायः नहीं जिम्मेदार लिये अनेक मौतों  or injuries from a single event .
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of  a फ्लैश , जबतक लोगों or पशु यहूद stacked on शीर्ष of प्रत्येक अन्य , or वे यहूद somehow arranged खड़ा और  part of the flash channel .
When lightning  ignites an उपलब्धियाँ ईंधन सोर्स और an विस्फोट occurs , it is the शॉक वेव or आग causing the  injuries , not the strike itself .
Ground Currents , also called step potential , of an earth termination is what truly  कल्याणकारी सबसे चोटों or मौत to इंसानो  and animals .
The  निकट instantaneous फटाफट of सतह आरोप , induced by the ओवरहेड thundercloud itself , रेस to the स्ट्राइक पाइंट इससे  hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge .
This current , caused during each  स्ट्रोक , takes the पाथ of तनिक प्रतिरोध , जिससे may be आयन समृद्ध इंसान  or animal legs , over poorly conducting earth .
This is why it is  बेहतरीन to crouch , साथ फीट बंद साथ , if कभी caught  in the open during a thunderstorm .
Unfortunately , most reports do not draw a distinction between the real cause of injury  or मौत , be it the स्ट्राइक itself , a resulting विस्फोट or आग , or प्रायः जिम्मेदार कदम संभावित  .
Peter F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is  the वर्तमान attorney सामान्य of rhode द्वीप  .
Kilmartin is also a  रिटायर्ड पुलिस कप्तान और a पूर्व सदस्य  of the Rhode Island House of Representatives .
A  युगल following उनके विवाह in the  Manti Utah Temple .
Sealing is an ordinance ( ritual ) performed in  latter दिन संतो मंदिरों by a व्यक्ति पकड़कर the sealing प्राधिकार  .
The purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar  संबंध , बनाना संभावित the अस्तित्व of परिवार संबंध throughout शाश्वत  .
LDS  शिक्षाओं प्लेस ग्रेट महत्व on the विशिष्ट प्राधिकार जरूरी  to perform these sealings .
Church doctrine  सिखाती कि इस प्राधिकार , पुकारा the priesthood ,  corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in .
Sealings are typically performed as  विवाह or as sealing of children to अभिभावक .
They were performed  prior to the मौत of जोसेफ स्मिथ , jr. ( the प्रमुख संस्थापक of the latter दिन संत गति ) , और हैं फिलहाल performed  in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints .
Although some  अन्य denominations , ऐसे as the जातियाँ of मसीह , दृश्य sealing as an centuries of स्मिथ 's अभ्यास of  plural marriage , some do still perform them .
The 2000s ,  सुनाया `` दो हज़ारों '' , थी a दशक कि began on जनवरी 1 , 2000  , and ended on December 31 , 2009 .
Globalization , which had  त्वरित बाद the जल्दी 1990s पतन of साम्यवादी , जारी to be a फ़ोर्स  in the 2000s .
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to globalization during the decade , making it possible for people to interact with other people , express ideas ,  introduce अन्य to अलग संस्कृतियों और पृष्ठभूमि , उपयोग goods और सेवाएं , बेचें और ख़रीदे ऑनलाइन , शोध और सीख परिचय बाते , साथ साथ experiencing  the world without having to leave home .
The institutions , linkages and technologies that emerged or were  redefined पहले होता subsequently in इस दशक लाभ अनेक देशों , in particular चीन और  India .
however , in अन्य भाग of the संसार ऐसे प्रगति विफल to पता जारी  struggles with modernity , most notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups .
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the United States , United Kingdom , Spain , Canada and other nations invading  अफगानिस्तान , as खूब as implementing विभिन्न anti-terrorist उपायों at घर और विदेश in  what was known as the War on Terror .
the यूरोपीय संघ देखी further संयोजन और  expansion throughout much of Europe .
The economic growth  of the 2000s था considerable पर्यावरणीय consequences , उठाया माँग लिये घटाते  energy resources , and was still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s .
The  gunfight at the o.k . corral थी a gunfight कि took प्लेस at परिचय 3:00 p.m. on बुधवार , अक्तूबर 26 , 1881 , in tombstone  , Arizona Territory , and is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West .
The gunfight , believed to have lasted only about  तीस सेकेंड , थी लड़ा between the गैरकानूनी cowboys बिली claiborne , आइक और बिली clanton , और tom और फ़्रैंक mclaury , और the opposing कस्बा मार्शल वर्जिल earp और उसके भाइयो सहायक कस्बा मार्शल मॉर्गन और अस्थाई lawman  Wyatt , aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil .
Ike Clanton  और बिली claiborne भागा इससे the लड़ो unharmed , लकिन आइक 's bhai बिली clanton  was killed , along with both McLaurys .
Lawmen Virgil and Morgan  earp और दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे यहूद  wounded .
Only  व्याट earp आए through  the fight unharmed .
The fight has come to represent a time in American history when the frontier was open  दायरा लिये outlaws opposed by विधि प्रवर्तन कि थी स्प्रेड पतला over विशाल territories , leaving कुछ क्षेत्रों unprotected  .
The gunfight  थी नहीं खूब ज्ञात to the अमरीकी पब्लिक जबतक 1931 जब लेखक स्टुअर्ट झील प्रकाशित कया रै चूंकि महरूम संकल्पित to be a largely fictionalized जीवनी , व्याट earp  : Frontier Marshal , two years after Earp 's death .
झील retold उसके स्टोरी in a 1946 किताब कि निदेशक जॉन घाट  developed into the movie My Darling Clementine .
After the movie Gunfight at the O.K . Corral was released in 1957 , the  गोलीबारी आए to be ज्ञात by कि नाम .
Since then , the  विरोध रै महरूम portrayed साथ varying डिग्री of सटीकता in numerous  Western films and books .
Despite its name , the  gunfight दरअसल occurred in a सीमित लॉट छह द्वार वेस्ट of the पश्च प्रवेश to  the O.K . Corral on Fremont Street , and also in the street .
the दो opposing पार्टियों यहूद  initially only about apart .
About thirty shots  यहूद fired in तीस सेकेंड .
Ike Clanton filed murder charges against  the earps और दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे लकिन वे यहूद आखिरकार exonerated by a लोकल न्यायधीश बाद a 30-day प्रारंभिक सुनना  and then again by a local grand jury .
On  दिसम्बर 28 , 1881 , वर्जिल earp थी maimed in an हत्या attempt by the गैरकानूनी  Cowboys , and on March 18 , 1882 , they assassinated Morgan Earp .
The suspects  सुसज्जित ठोस alibis , और newly नियुक्त डिप्टी u.s . मार्शल व्याट earp took matters into उसके अपना हैंड्स दौरान  the Earp Vendetta Ride , ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny Behan with warrants for the Earp 's arrest .
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed video data and compressed/uncompressed  डिजिटल ऑडियो आंकड़ा इससे a hdmi-compliant यंत्र ( `` the सोर्स यंत्र '' ) to a संगत कंप्यूटर मॉनिटर , वीडियो प्रोजेक्टर , डिजिटल टेलीविज़न , or डिजिटल ऑडियो यंत्र  .
HDMI is  a डिजिटल बदलना लिये मौजूदा एनालॉग  video standards .
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable  कनेक्टर्स उपलब्धियाँ , प्रत्येक of जिससे can be प्रयुक्त लिये कोई uncompressed tv or pc वीडियो स्वरूप , सहित मानक , उन्नत , ऊँची परिभाषा , और 3d वीडियो सिग्नल ; up to 8 चैनल्स of संपीडित  or uncompressed digital audio ; a CEC ( Consumer Electronics Control ) connection ; and an Ethernet data connection .
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards , which define video formats and  waveforms , हस्तांतरण of संपीडित , uncompressed , और lpcm ऑडियो , auxiliary आंकड़ा , और implementations  of the VESA EDID .
The CEC allows HDMI devices to control each other when  जरुरी और allows the उपयोक्ता to operate अनेक डिवाइस साथ एक रिमोट कंट्रोल हैंडसेट .
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with  the cea-861 सिग्नल प्रयुक्त by डिजिटल विज़ुअल इंटरफ़ेस ( dvi ) , no सिग्नल परिवर्तन is जरुरी , nor is वहीँ a घाटा of वीडियो विशेषता जब a dvi-to-hdmi एडाप्टर  is used .
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection , HDMI is independent of the various digital television standards used by individual devices ,  ऐसे as atsc और dvb , as ये हैं encapsulations of संपीडित एमपीईजी वीडियो स्ट्रीम ( जिससे can be decoded और  output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ) .
Production of  उपभोक्ता hdmi उत्पाद प्रारंभ in लेट  2003 .
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is  शामिल in the hd तैयार in-store labeling specification लिये tv सेट  for HDTV , formulated by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005 .
HDMI began to appear  on उपभोक्ता hdtv camcorders और डिजिटल स्टिल  cameras in 2006 .
As  of जनवरी 8 , 2013 , जिससे is टेन सालो बाद the रिलीज of the पहला hdmi specification  , over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped since the launch of the HDMI standard .
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ;  भी ज्ञात in the श्रेणी as ब्री होज और ब्री वेस्टन ) is a fictional अक्षर और  one of the four protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives .
She is played by actress Marcia Cross , who  रै प्राप्त अनेक पुरस्कार और nominations लिये उसके portrayal , सहित an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन , तीन सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार nominations , और दो स्क्रीन  Actors Guild Awards .
क्रॉस 's portrayal of ब्री रै महरूम widely  praised by critics and fans .
क्रॉस originally auditioned लिये the भूमिका of मरियम ऐलिस यंग , लकिन  series creator Marc Cherry thought she was better suited for the role of Bree .
Dana Delany , who eventually was cast as  कैथरीन mayfair , थी originally चुनी लिये the भूमिका लकिन turned it bas  , saying it was too similar to her role in Pasadena .
Bree 's main struggle throughout the series has been her attempts to maintain a perfect  जीवन despite विभिन्न बाधाएं ऐसे as widowhood , तलाक , और alcoholism hindering  her .
She  रै महरूम शादीशुदा तीन टाइम्स ; to रेक्स वैन de kamp ( स्टीवन culp ) , orson होज ( काइल  MacLachlan ) and Trip Weston ( Scott Bakula ) .
See also the Town  of algoma in winnebago काउंटी , विस्कॉन्सिन  .
See  भी algoma ( बहुविकल्पी  ) .
Algoma is a city in  kewaunee काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन  .
The population was  3,167 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
Algoma is part of the Green  खाड़ी महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The Hangover Part II  is a 2011 अमरीकी कॉमेडी फिल्मी उत्पादित by legendary तस्वीरें और  distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures .
It is the  sequel to 2009 's the hangover और the  second film in The Hangover franchise .
Todd Phillips directed the film in  जोड to co-authoring the स्क्रिप्ट साथ क्रेग mazin , और scot आर्मस्ट्रांग  .
The film stars Bradley Cooper , Ed Helms , Zach Galifianakis , Ken Jeong ,  जेफरी tambor , जस्टिन bartha और पॉल giamatti  .
The Hangover Part II tells  the स्टोरी of फिल , stu , एलन , और डग as वे सफर to थाईलैंड  for Stu 's wedding .
After  the स्नातक पार्टी in लास वेगास , stu takes no संभावना और opts  for a safe , subdued pre-wedding brunch .
However , things do not go  as नियोजित , resulting in another ख़राब hangover साथ no यादें  of the previous night .
Development of The  hangover भाग ii began in अप्रैल 2009 , दो महीने पहले the hangover  was released .
The principal actors were cast  in कूच 2010 to reprise उनके भूमिकाएँ इससे the पहला  film .
Production began  in अक्तूबर 2010 , in ओंटारियो , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , पहले चलती on स्थान  in Thailand .
The film was released on May 26 , 2011 and ,  despite receiving ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , it became the highest-grossing r-rated कॉमेडी  during its theatrical run .
A  तीसरा फिल्मी is नियत लिये  on May 24 , 2013 .
Young Man Among Roses ,  पोर्ट्रेट miniature by निकोलस  Hilliard , 1588 , V & A .
Believed  to be the अर्ल of  Essex
The Ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth  i by the विदेशी मार्कस gheeraerts the  Younger , c.1592
The English Renaissance  थी a सांस्कृतिक और कलाकारी गति in इंग्लैण्ड डेटिंग इससे the लेट 15th और जल्दी  16th centuries to the early 17th century .
It is associated with  the pan-european पुनर्जागरण कि is प्रायः regarded as शुरूआत in  Italy in the late 14th century .
जैसे सबसे of उत्तरी यूरोपीय , इंग्लैण्ड देखी छोटी of ये developments जबतक  more than a century later .
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken , as a  convenience , to be 1485 , जब the बैटल of bosworth फ़ील्ड ended the युद्धों of the गुलाब और उदघाटन  the Tudor Dynasty .
Renaissance style and ideas , however , were slow in penetrating England , and the  elizabethan era in the दूसरी हाफ of the 16th सदी is प्रायः regarded as the ऊँचाई of the अंग्रेज़ी पुनर्जागरण  .
एलिज़ाबेथ ऐन bloomer वारेन `` बेट्टी '' घाट ( अप्रैल 8 , 1918 – जुलाई 8 , 2011 ) , थी पहला महिला of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1974 to  1977 during the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford .
As First Lady , she was active in  सोशल नीति और निर्मित precedents as a नीतियां क्रियाशील अध्यक्षीय  wife .
throughout उसके husband 's पद in दफ्तर , वो कायम ऊँची स्वीकृति दरजा despite विपक्ष इससे कुछ रूढ़िवादी republicans जो objected  to her more moderate and liberal positions on social issues .
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer awareness following her  1974 mastectomy और थी a passionate समर्थक of , और activist लिये , the बराबर अधिकारों amendment  ( ERA ) .
Pro-choice  on गर्भपात और a नेता in the महिलाओं 's गति , वो gained कीर्ति as एक of the सबसे निष्कपट पहला महिलाओं  in history , commenting on every hot-button issue of the time , including feminism , equal pay , the ERA , sex , drugs , abortion , and gun control .
She also raised awareness of addiction when she announced  उसके long-running बैटल साथ alcoholism  in the 1970s .
Following her White House years , she continued to lobby for the ERA  और remained क्रियाशील in the feminist गति  .
She was the founder , and served as the first chair of the board of directors , of the Betty  घाट बीच लिये पदार्थ गाली और व्यसन और is a प्राप्तकर्ता of the congressional सुनहरा पदक ( co-presentation साथ उसके husband , जेराल्ड R.  Ford , October 21 , 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone , presented 1991 , by George H. W. Bush ) .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of  differentiation 31 ( cd31 ) is a प्रोटीन कि in इंसान is एनकोडेड by the pecam1 जीन मिला on chromosome  17 .
PECAM-1 plays a key  भूमिका in निकालना aged neutrophils इससे the देह  .
जेसिका rafalowski , मिस फ्लोरिडा  USA 2008
Jenna  एडवर्ड्स , मिस फ्लोरिडा  USA 2007
मेलिसा witek , मिस फ्लोरिडा  USA 2005
क्रिस्टन berset , मिस फ्लोरिडा  USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA  प्रतियोगिता is the pageant कि selects the प्रतिनिधि  for the state Florida in the Miss USA pageant .
जबकि फ्लोरिडा रै महरूम कामयाब in शर्तें of runners-up , finalists और semi-finalists , the राज्य रै never जीती the मिस यूएसए pageant , हालांकि  Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe .
Florida 's best  परिणाम यहूद दौरान the mid-1960s to mid-1970s  .
Their most recent  फाइनलिस्ट थी lissette गार्सिया जो लगाई in the शीर्ष 16 in 2011  .
Two former Miss Florida  टीन यूएसए titleholders have जीती इस प्रतियोगिता , और तीन titleholders  have also competed at Miss America .
the वर्तमान titleholder is मिशेल aguirre  of Hialeah .
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history  of the भाग of ब्रिटेन कि became ज्ञात as इंग्लैण्ड , स्थायी इससे the समाप्त of रोमन occupation और स्थापना of anglo-saxon kingdoms in the 5th सदी जबतक the नॉर्मन conquest  of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror .
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring to the Germanic peoples who came  to ब्रिटेन दौरान the 5th और 6th सदियां , सहित कोण , saxons , frisii , और jutes  .
The term also refers to the language spoken at the time in England ,  जिससे is अभी पुकारा बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी , और to the संस्कृति of the era , जिससे रै long आकर्षित  popular and scholarly attention .
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy ,  the kingdoms of नॉर्थम्ब्रिया , mercia , ईस्ट anglia , एसेक्स , केंट , ससेक्स  , and Wessex .
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon paganism during the early  काल , लकिन परिवर्तित to christianity दौरान the 7th सदी  .
Paganism had a final stronghold in a  काल of mercian आधिपत्य दौरान the 640s , समाप्ति साथ the मौत of पेंदा  of Mercia in 655 .
Facing the  threat of viking invasions , the हाउस of wessex  became dominant during the 9th century , under the rule of Alfred the Great .
दौरान the 10th सदी , the व्यक्तिगत kingdoms एकीकृत अंतर्गत the नियम of wessex into the किंगडम  of England , which stood opposed to the Danelaw , the Viking kingdoms established from the 9th century in the north and east of England .
The Kingdom of  इंग्लैण्ड गिरी in the viking आक्रमण इससे डेनमार्क in 1013 और थी शासित by the हाउस of डेनमार्क जबतक 1042 , जब  the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored .
The  पिछला anglo-saxon किंग , हेरोल्ड godwinson , थी मारे in 1066  at the Battle of Hastings .
Lighting a traditional red  ईंटों जॉन रॉस jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a  तैयारी of सामन , typically a fillet कि रै महरूम cured और hot or ठंडा स्मोक्ड  .
Due to its moderately high price  , स्मोक्ड सामन is माना a कोमलता  .
Although the term lox is sometimes applied to  स्मोक्ड सामन , वे हैं अलग उत्पाद  .
View  of defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड स्थिति  and placement .
Defibrillation is a common treatment for  life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , और pulseless  ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation  consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of विद्युत उर्जा to the प्रभावित  heart with a device called a defibrillator .
इस depolarizes a नाजुक द्रव्यमान of the दिल मांसपेशी , terminates  the dysrhythmia , and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial node of the heart .
Defibrillators can be external ,  transvenous , or implanted , depending on the प्रकार  of device used or needed .
Some  बाह्य इकाई , ज्ञात as स्वचालित बाह्य defibrillators ( aeds ) , automate the निदान of treatable लय , अर्थ  that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel ( August  19 , 1883 – जनवरी 10 , 1971 ) थी a फ्रेंच फ़ैशन पंक्तियां और संस्थापक of the चैनल  brand .
She was the only fashion designer to appear on Time magazine  's सूची of the 100 सबसे influential लोगों of the 20th  century .
Along with Paul Poiret , Chanel was credited with  liberating महिलाओं इससे the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' और popularizing the स्वीकृति of a sportive , कैज़ुअल चिक as the feminine  standard in the post- World War I era .
A prolific fashion  निर्माता , चैनल 's influence विस्तारित  beyond couture clothing .
Her design  aesthetic थी एहसास in आभूषण , हैंडबैग  , and fragrance .
Her signature scent ,  चैनल no . 5 , रै become an iconic  product .
Chanel was known for  उसके lifelong determination , महत्वाकांक्षा और उर्जा  which she applied to her professional and social life .
She achieved both success as  a businesswoman और सोशल prominence धन्यवाद  to the connections she made through her work .
These included  अनेक कलाकारों और craftspeople to जिसको वो became  a patron .
However , Chanel 's highly competitive , opportunistic personality led  उसके to मेक questionable जीवन चुनाव जिससे have उत्पन्न विवाद around उसके प्रतिष्ठा , विशेषकर उसके आचरण दौरान  the German occupation of France in World War II .
Allied  मिलों आटा मिल on the बैंको of the  Manchester Ship Canal
A gristmill ( also : grist  मिल , मकई मिल or आटा मिल ) grinds अनाज into  flour .
The term can refer to  दोनो the पीस यांत्रिकी और the भवन  that holds it .
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country located  at the चौराहे of सेंट्रल और southeastern यूरोपीय , bordering on the ब्लैक समुद्र  .
Romania shares a border with Hungary and Serbia to the west , Ukraine and Moldova to  the पूर्वोत्तर और ईस्ट , और बुल्गारिया to the  south .
At , Romania is the  आठवीं largest देश of the यूरोपीय संघ by क्षेत्रफल , और रै the सातवाँ largest जनसांख्यिकी of the यूरोपीय संघ साथ अधिक  than 19 million people .
Its capital and  biggest नगर is बुखारेस्ट , the 11th largest  city in the EU .
The United  principalities उभरा जब the territories of moldavia और wallachia यहूद संयुक्त  under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859 .
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to the  सिंहासन as the सत्ताधारी प्रिंस of the रोमानियाई principate और in 1881 he थी आखिरकार  crowned as King Carol I the first monarch of the Kingdom of Romania .
Independence from the Ottoman Empire was declared  on 9 may 1877 , और थी internationally पहचाना the  following year .
At the end  of संसार युद्ध i , transylvania , bukovina और bessarabia  united with the Kingdom of Romania .
World War  ii दिया कारण to the वृद्धि of a सैन्य तानाशाही in रोमानिया अंतर्गत फासिस्ट सामान्य आयन antonescu , जो chose  to fight on the side of the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944 .
After his removal , Romania  switched पहलू in 1944 और joined the  Allies .
By the end of  the युद्ध , कुछ formerly रोमानियाई northeastern territories यहूद occupied by the सोवियत संघ , साथ  Red Army units stationed on Romanian soil .
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a  लोगों 's गणतंत्र ( 1947-1965 ) और a सदस्य of the वॉरसॉ अनुबंध  .
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became General Secretary of the Romanian Communist Party , and the harsh austerity measures , political repression , and cult of personality he implemented  led to the समाजवादी गणतंत्र of रोमानिया ( 1965-1989 ) बनने the सबसे stalinist पुलिस राज्य  in the Eastern bloc .
Eventually his authoritarian government was  toppled in दिसम्बर 1989 दौरान the रोमानियाई क्रान्ति  of 1989 .
With the fall of the  आयरन पर्दा , रोमानिया began इसके परिवर्तन towards लोकतंत्र  and a capitalist market economy .
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems and living-standards  मनाही , extensive reforms fostered आर्थिक रिकवरी  .
As of 2010  , रोमानिया is an upper-middle-income देश साथ a ऊँची इंसान  development index .
Romania joined NATO on 29  कूच 2004 , और the यूरोपीय संघ on 1 जनवरी  2007 .
It is also a member of the :  लैटिन संघ , francophonie , osce , wto , bsec , संयुक्त  Nations , etc .
Today , Romania is a unitary  semi-presidential गणतंत्र , in जिससे the कार्यपालिका शाखा consists of the अध्यक्ष और  the Government .
`` Ancient  '' redirects  here .
For other uses , see  प्राचीनता ( बहुविकल्पी ) .
The times  पहले लिखने belong either to protohistory or to प्रागितिहास  .
Khafre 's Pyramid (  4th राजवंश ) और ग्रेट sphinx of गीज़ा  ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the written past from the  शुरूआत of अंकित इंसान इतिहास to the जल्दी मध्य  Ages .
The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years , with  cuneiform स्क्रिप्ट , the oldest खोजा रूप of सुसंगत लिखने , इससे  the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC .
This is the beginning of  इतिहास , as opposed to प्रागितिहास , according to the परिभाषा प्रयुक्त by  most historians .
The term classical antiquity is often used to refer to history in the Old World from  the शुरूआत of अंकित यूनानी इतिहास in 776 bc  ( First Olympiad ) .
This roughly coincides with the traditional date of the  founding of रोम in 753 bc , the शुरूआत of the इतिहास of प्राचीन रोम , और the  beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece .
Although the ending date of ancient history is disputed , some  पश्चिमी विद्वानों उपयोग the पतन of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in 476 ad , the closure of the platonic अकादमी in 529 ad , the मौत of the सम्राट जुस्तिनियन i , the  coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history .
In  इण्डिया , the काल शामिल the जल्दी काल of the मध्य kingdoms , और , in  China , the time up to the Qin Dynasty is included .
Methylcobalamin (  दिखाया ) is a रूप of  vitamin B12 .
Physically  it resembles the अन्य फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन b12 , occurring as अंधेरा रेड crystals कि freely  form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water .
Vitamin  b12 , विटामिन b12 or विटामिन b-12 , भी पुकारा cobalamin , is a water-soluble विटामिन  with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system , and for the formation of blood .
It is  एक of the आठ  B vitamins .
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human  देह , विशेषकर affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण और विनियमन , लकिन भी वसीय एसिड संश्लेषण और उर्जा  production .
Neither fungi ,  पौधे , nor पशु हैं सक्षम of producing  vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea  have the एंजाइमों जरूरी लिये इसके संश्लेषण , हालांकि अनेक भोजन  are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis .
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated  विटामिन और can be उत्पादित industrially तभी through बैक्टीरियल fermentation-synthesis  .
Vitamin B12  consists of a क्लास of chemically सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ) , सब  of which have vitamin activity .
It contains the  biochemically विरल तत्व कोबाल्ट  .
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by  जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ) , लकिन परिवर्तन between अलग  forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin ,  cyanocobalamin , करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति , लकिन is उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin और तब प्रयुक्त in अनेक दवाएँ और पूरक , और as a खाना  additive , because of its stability and lower production cost .
In the body  it is परिवर्तित to the इंसान physiological फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin  , leaving behind the cyanide , albeit in minimal concentration .
More recently ,  hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin , और adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in अधिक महंगी pharmacological  products and food supplements .
The extra  यूटिलिटी of ये is फिलहाल debated  .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the  बीमारी घातक रक्ताल्पता , जिससे is an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of the पेट जिम्मेदार लिये secreting  intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is  निर्णायक लिये the सामान्य अवशोषण of b12 , so a कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर , as  seen in pernicious anemia , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin  b12 कमियां और उनके biochemical प्रभाव have  since been elucidated .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization  , characterised by an निरंकुश रूप of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings around the भूमध्यसागरीय in यूरोपीय , अफ़्रीकी , और एशिया  .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic ,  जिससे preceded it , था महरूम destabilized through  a series of civil wars .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire , including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ;  the बैटल of actium ( 31 bc ) ; और the granting of the honorific augustus to octavian by the रोमन सीनेट (  27 BC ) .
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period  of unprecedented स्थिरता और समृद्धि ज्ञात as the pax romana ( `` रोमन  Peace '' ) .
It reached its greatest  expanse दौरान the शासनकाल of त्राजान  ( 98–117 AD ) .
In the  3rd सदी , the साम्राज्य underwent a संकट कि threatened इसके अस्तित्व , लकिन थी reunified  and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian .
Christians rose to power in the 4th century ,  दौरान जिससे समय a प्रणाली of डुअल नियम थी विकसित in the लैटिन वेस्ट और यूनानी  East .
After the collapse of  सेंट्रल सरकारी in the वेस्ट in the 5th सदी , the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as कया होता  later be known as the Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and  स्थायी influence on the विकास of भाषा , धर्म , वास्तुकला , दर्शनशास्त्र , विधि , और फ़ॉर्म of सरकारी in the territory it governed , विशेषकर यूरोपीय , और by अर्थात् of यूरोपीय  expansionism throughout the modern world .
Total body  सतह क्षेत्रफल ( tbsa ) is an मूल्यांकन माप of  burns of the skin .
In adults , the `` rule of  nines '' is प्रयुक्त to determine the कुल प्रतिशत of क्षेत्रफल burned लिये प्रत्येक प्रमुख खण्ड  of the body .
In some cases , the burns may cover more than one body part , or may not fully  कवर ऐसे a भाग ; in ये मामले , burns हैं measured by using the casualty 's ताड़ as a सन्दर्भ पाइंट  for 1 % of the body .
लिये children और infants , the lund-browder  chart is used to assess the burned body surface area .
Different percentages are used because the ratio of the combined surface area  of the सिर और गर्दन to the सतह क्षेत्रफल of the limbs is typically larger in children than कि of an वयस्क  .
Typical  मान लिये आम समूह  of humans follow .
( Due to  rounding , मान may नहीं add to 100 %  . )
World infant  मृत्यु दरों by पाँच सालो averages  in 2008 .
This is a list of  देशों by शिशु  mortality rate .
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June 26 ,  1975 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम kj-52 , is a ईसाई rapper इससे  Tampa , Florida .
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his old rap  alias , `` किंग J. मैक , '' a नाम जिससे he बाद वर्णित in एक of उसके podcasts  as `` horribly cheesy . ''
`` 52 '' , which is pronounced `` five two '' , not `` fifty-two '' , is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with five  loaves और दो मछली , जिससे is भी सुंग परिचय in उसके सोंग `` धक्का up '' इससे the yearbook और in the `` kj पाँच दो '' on it 's सुनाया 'five दो  .
He was awarded the Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the  साल लिये `` never dekh दूर '' और rap/hip हॉप एल्बम of the साल at the जीएमए dove पुरस्कार of 2007  .
On July 28 , 2009 ,  kj-52 released `` समाप्त of my रस्सी '' , जिससे is the पहला सिंगल लिये उसके  album Five-Two Television .
His song ``  डिअर पतला '' is आधारित on एमिनेम 's सोंग `` स्टेन `` और is a sort  of personal message from KJ-52 to Eminem .
The degree  प्रतीक ( ° ) is a typographical प्रतीक कि is प्रयुक्त , among अन्य बाते , to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g . in भौगोलिक निर्देशांक  systems ) , hours ( in the medical field ) , or degrees of temperature .
the प्रतीक consists of a छोटी उठाया वृत्त , historically  a zero glyph .
In  युनिकोड it is एनकोडेड  at .
This  is a सूची of जड़ें , प्रत्यय , और prefixes प्रयुक्त in चिकित्सा  terminology , their meanings , and their etymology .
There are a  few नियम जब using चिकित्सा  roots .
Firstly , prefixes and  प्रत्यय , primarily in यूनानी , लकिन भी in लैटिन , have  a droppable -o- .
As a general rule  , इस -o- लगभग सदा अधिनियमों as a joint-stem to कनेक्ट दो consonantal जड़ें  , e.g . arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology .
But generally , the -o- is dropped when  connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g . arthr- + itis = गठिया  , instead of arthr-o-itis .
Secondly , medical roots generally go  साथ according to भाषा : यूनानी prefixes go साथ यूनानी प्रत्यय और लैटिन prefixes साथ लैटिन प्रत्यय  .
हालांकि अंतरराष्ट्रीय वैज्ञानिक शब्दावली is नहीं कठोर परिचय segregating  combining forms of different languages , it is advisable when coining new words not to mix different lingual roots .
Stomach cancer , or gastric cancer ,  refers to कर्कट arising इससे कोई  part of the stomach .
Stomach cancer causes about  800,000 मौतों विश्वव्यापी प्रति  year .
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year  अस्तित्व < 5 to 15 % ) क्युकी सबसे मरीजों उपस्थित  with advanced disease .
Sara Lynn Evans (  born फ़रवरी 5 , 1971 ) is an अमरीकी  country singer and songwriter .
For her  संपूर्ण करियर , वो रै महरूम हस्ताक्षरित to आरसीए रिकॉर्ड  Nashville .
Evans ' debut ,  तीन मदारी और the सच्चाई , किया नहीं उपज a शीर्ष 40 hit  on the Hot Country Songs charts .
She followed  इस up साथ no प्लेस कि दूर ( 1998 ) , born to मक्खी ( 2000 ) , बेचैन  ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ) .
No Place That Far  प्राप्त a सुनहरा प्रमाणन इससे the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa ) , जबकि the अन्य तीन एल्बम सब यहूद certified  platinum .
These discs include the number  1 singles `` no प्लेस कि दूर `` , `` born to मक्खी `` , `` suds in the बाल्टी `` और `` a रियल ठीक प्लेस to प्रारंभ `` , प्लस the शीर्ष 10 हिट्स `` i could नहीं पूछो लिये अधिक `` ( a कवर of the एडविन  McCain song ) , `` I Keep Looking `` , `` Perfect `` and `` Cheatin ' `` .
Her 2007 Greatest  हिट्स शामिल the शीर्ष 15 हिट्स `` तुम 'll सदा be my baby ``  and `` As If `` .
Stronger ( 2011 ) included  उसके पांचवां क्रमांक 1 hit , `` a छोटी बिट stronger `` , जिससे थी co-written by हिलेरी  Scott of Lady Antebellum .
इवांस रै भी जीती एक पुरस्कार प्रत्येक इससे बिलबोर्ड , the अकादमी of देश म्यूज़िक , देश म्यूज़िक  Association , Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award .
The world 's principal religions and spiritual  परंपराओं may be वर्गीकृत into a छोटी क्रमांक of प्रमुख समूह , हालांकि इस is  by no means a uniform practice .
This theory  began in the 18th सदी साथ the लक्ष्य of recognizing the सापेक्ष  levels of civility in societies .
Berliners watching a C-54  जमीन at tempelhof विमानक्षेत्र ( 1948  )
The  बर्लिन नाकेबंदी ( 24 जून 1948 – 12 may 1949 ) थी एक of the पहला प्रमुख  international crises of the Cold War .
दौरान the बहुराष्ट्रीय occupation of post–world युद्ध ii जर्मनी , the सोवियत  Union blocked the Western Allies ' railway , road , and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Allied control .
Their aim was to force the western powers to allow the Soviet zone to start supplying  बर्लिन साथ खाना और ईंधन , thereby giving the soviets व्यावहारिक कंट्रोल over  the entire city .
In response , the Western Allies organized  the बर्लिन एयरलिफ्ट to carry आपूर्तियाँ to the लोगों  in West Berlin .
Aircrews from the United States Air Force , the British Royal Air Force  , the royal ऑस्ट्रेलियाई एयर फ़ोर्स , the royal कनाडाई एयर फ़ोर्स , the royal नई जीलैंड एयर फ़ोर्स , और the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी एयर फ़ोर्स उड़ाया over 200,000 फ़्लाइट in एक साल , providing up to 4700 टन  of daily necessities such as fuel and food to the Berliners .
By the spring of 1949 , the effort was clearly succeeding and , by April , the  एयरलिफ्ट थी delivering अधिक कार्गो than था previously महरूम transported into the नगर by रेल  .
The success of the Berlin Airlift brought  शर्मिंदगी to the soviets जो था refused to मानना it could मेक a अंतर  .
The blockade was lifted in  may 1949 और resulted in the सृष्टि of दो  separate German states .
The Federal  गणतंत्र of जर्मनी ( वेस्ट जर्मनी ) और the जर्मनी लोकतांत्रिक  Republic ( East Germany ) split up Berlin .
In remembrance of the  एयरलिफ्ट , तीन एयरपोर्ट in the पूर्व पश्चिमी zones of the नगर परोसा as the प्राथमिक  gateways to Germany for another fifty years .
The euro  चिह्न ; logotype और हस्तलिखित  .
The euro sign is the currency sign used for  the यूरोपियन , the आधिकारिक करेंसी of the eurozone in the  European Union ( EU ) .
The design was presented to the public by the  यूरोपीय आयोग on 12 दिसम्बर 1996 .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय three-letter कोड ( according to आईएसओ मानक आईएसओ 4217 )  for the euro is EUR .
In  युनिकोड it is  encoded at .
In  अंग्रेज़ी , the चिह्न precedes the  value .
In some styleguides , but  नहीं अन्य , the यूरोपियन चिह्न is unspaced  .
Mate ( , ; sometimes also spelled maté ) , also known as chimarrão ( )  or cimarrón ( ) , is a परंपरागत दक्षिण अमरीकी infused पेय , विशेषकर in अर्जेंटीना , उरुग्वे , पैराग्वे और the दक्षिणी  states of Brazil and to a lesser degree in south of Chile , the Bolivian Chaco , Syria and Lebanon .
It is prepared from steeping dried leaves of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis  , ज्ञात in पुर्तगाली as erva-mate ) in hot  water .
Mate  is परोसा साथ a मेटल स्ट्रॉ इससे  a shared hollow calabash gourd .
The straw is called a bombilla in some Latin American countries , a bomba in  पुर्तगाली , और a bombija or , अधिक generally , a masassa ( प्रकार of स्ट्रॉ  ) in Arabic .
The straw is  traditionally बना of  silver .
आधुनिक , commercially उपलब्धियाँ लोभी हैं typically बना of निकल  silver , called Alpaca ; stainless steel , or hollow-stemmed cane .
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in  ब्राज़ील , it रै the विशिष्ट नाम of cuia , or भी cabaça ( the नाम लिये indigenous-influenced calabash gourds in अन्य regions of ब्राज़ील , स्टिल प्रयुक्त  for general food and drink in remote regions ) .
Even  if the जल is supplied इससे a आधुनिक thermos , the infusion is traditionally  drunk from mates or cuias .
As with other brewed herbs , yerba mate  पत्ते हैं सूखी , कटा , और मैदान into a powdery  mixture called yerba .
The bombilla acts as both a  स्ट्रॉ और a sieve  .
The submerged end is flared , with small holes or slots that allow the brewed  द्रव in , लकिन ब्लाक the चंकी पदार्थ कि makes up much of  the mixture .
A modern bombilla design uses a straight tube with  छेद , or वसन्त स्लीव to अधिनियम as a sieve  .
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of  mate ( mate cocido ) have महरूम on the मार्केट in अर्जेंटीना , पैराग्वे और उरुग्वे लिये अनेक सालो अंतर्गत ऐसे व्यापार names as `` taragüí vitality  '' in Argentina , `` Pajarito '' and `` Kurupí '' in Paraguay , and in Brazil under the name `` Mate Leão '' .
This is  माना a completely  different drink .
It is never drunk  इससे cuias or पुकारा chimarrão , nor is it संबद्ध  with the gaucho/gaúcho culture .
The automotive industry is a term that covers a wide range of companies  और संगठनों शामिल in the डिज़ाइन , विकास , manufacture , विपणन , और selling of मोटर वाहनों , towed वाहनों  , motorcycles and mopeds .
It is one of the  संसार 's सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आर्थिक सेक्टर by आय  .
The term automotive industry usually does not include  उद्योग समर्पित to the मेंटेनेंस of ऑटोमोबाइल following डिलीवरी to the end-user , ऐसे  as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations .
The term automotive was created from Greek autos  ( स्वः ) , और लैटिन motivus ( of गति ) to represent कोई रूप of  self-powered vehicle .
This term  थी प्रस्तावित by sae सदस्य  Elmer Sperry .
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista , Jr. ( born January 18 , 1969 ) , is an American mixed martial artist , bodybuilder , actor , and former  पेशेवर पहलवान बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके समय in संसार कुश्ती entertainment स्पर्धा अंतर्गत the रिंग नाम  Batista .
In WWE , he became  a six-time संसार चैंपियन , जीतना the संसार हेवीवेट चैंपियनशिप चार टाइम्स  , and the WWE Championship two times .
He  is the longest-reigning संसार हेवीवेट चैंपियन in डब्ल्यूडब्ल्यूई इतिहास  .
In  जोड to ये championships , बतिस्ता रै जीती the संसार टैग टोली चैंपियनशिप तीन टाइम्स ( twice साथ ric  Flair and once with John Cena ) and the WWE Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ) .
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal  rumble मैच और गई on to शीर्षक रेसलमेनिया 21 , एक of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing pay-per-view कार्यक्रम  in pro wrestling history .
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant , Batista signed a  अनुबंध साथ the wwf in 2000 और थी भेजा to इसके developmental territory , ओहियो घाटी कुश्ती ( ovw ) , जहाँ he जीती the ovw हेवीवेट  Championship .
In August 2012 , Bautista signed a contract with  क्लासिक entertainment & खेल to लड़ो in मिश्रित martial कला .
He won his MMA debut on  अक्तूबर 6 , 2012 , defeating विंस lucero via tko in the पहला गोलाकार  .
Henry T. Thomas Sampson , Jr. ( born in  जैक्सन , मिसिसिपी in 1934 ) is an african-american  inventor .
He graduated from high  स्कूल in 1951 इससे lanier ऊँची स्कूल in  Jackson , Mississippi .
He then  attended मोरहाउस कॉलेज लिये a युगल of सालो पहले transferring to purdue विश्वविद्यालयों जहाँ he became  a member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity .
He  प्राप्त a स्नातक 's उपाधि in विज्ञान  from Purdue University in 1956 .
He graduated with an MS  उपाधि in अभियान्त्रिकी इससे the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया ,  Los Angeles in 1961 .
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear Engineering from the  विश्वविद्यालयों of इलिनोइस urbana-champaign in 1965 , और उसके phd in 1967  .
He is the first African American to  earn a ph.d.in नाभिकीय अभियान्त्रिकी  in the United States .
Some of his accomplishments  शामिल होने a सदस्य of the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी between the सालो 1962 और 1964 और कमाई an परमाणु उर्जा  Commission honor between 1964 and 1967 .
Later he was awarded  the ब्लैक चित्र पुरस्कार इससे aerospace निगम in 1982  .
He was awarded  the अश्वेतों in अभियान्त्रिकी , लागू विज्ञान पुरस्कार , और पुरस्कार लिये शिक्षा , by the लॉस एंजिल्स  Council of Black Professional Engineers in 1983 .
In June 2007 , Sampson was married to Laura Howzell  यंग in st. थामस , u.S. वर्जिन आइलैंड्स .
Young-Sampson is a professor in  the कॉलेज of शिक्षा at कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों  San Bernardino .
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born March  29 , 1971 ) is a वरिष्ठ अभियान adviser लिये us अध्यक्ष बराक  Obama .
Previously , he  थी the 28th श्वेत हाउस दबायें सचिव  .
Gibbs was the  संचार निदेशक लिये then- u.s . सीनेटर  Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign .
Gibbs , who has worked with Obama since 2004 , was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004  अध्यक्षीय अभियान और रै previously specialized in सीनेट अभियान , having परोसा as संचार निदेशक लिये the लोकतांत्रिक senatorial अभियान कमेटी और लिये चार  individual Senate campaigns , including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998 .
Gibbs  थी भी the दबायें सचिव of प्रतिनिधि  Bob Etheridge .
On November  22 , 2008 , गिब्स थी घोषित  as the press secretary of the Obama administration .
He assumed the role of press  सचिव on जनवरी 20 , 2009 , और दिया उसके पहला आधिकारिक drug on  January 22 .
On January 5 , 2011 , Gibbs announced that he would leave the  श्वेत हाउस to become an बाहर adviser to the प्रशासन  .
He left on  फ़रवरी 11 , 2011  .
On February 12 ,  2013 , it थी घोषित कि गिब्स था महरूम नियुक्त as a योगदानकर्ता  for cable-news channel MSNBC .
His first appearance was on the same  रात्रि prior to the 2013 राज्य of the संघ पता  .
Armando Pérez ( born January 15 , 1981 ) , better  ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम pitbull , is an अमरीकी rapper , songwriter  , and record producer .
His first recorded performance  थी इससे the लील jon एल्बम किंग्स of crunk in 2002  .
In 2004  , he released उसके डेब्यू एल्बम titled m.i.a.m.i . ( छोटी लिये धन  Is A Major Issue ) under TVT Records .
Since then , he has released three other  एल्बम अंतर्गत the लेबल : el mariel in 2006 , the boatlift in 2007 , और ग्रह  Pit in 2011 .
He released  rebelution in 2009 , जिससे शामिल singles `` i जान तुम want  Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy `` .
The latter peaked at No . 30 on the Hot 100 and No . 11 on the Hot Rap Tracks charts  जबकि `` i जान तुम want me '' peaked at no . 2 on the hot 100 और peaked भीतर the शीर्ष टेन धब्बे of चार्ट in the uk , कनाडा , इटली , और the नीदरलैंड्स  .
The  सोंग पहुँचे no . 1 in फ़्रांस और the यूरोपीय hot 100 on the सप्ताह समाप्ति  August 29 , 2009 according to Billboard magazine .
He later signed with Polo  grounds म्यूज़िक through सोनी म्यूज़िक और निर्मित उसके अपना लेबल mr.  305 Inc .
Another single from Rebelution was `` Hotel  रूम सेवा `` , जिससे peaked at no . 8 on the hot  100 .
Rebelution went on to sell over 7.5  लाख विश्वव्यापी डिजिटल singles और एल्बम संयुक्त  .
nevertheless , he dropped a तोड़ पुकारा `` दे me सबकुछ '' जिससे पहुँचे # 1 विश्वव्यापी  , and featured artists Ne-yo , Nayer , and Afrojack .
He has also performed as a featured artist  in the remixes of अनेक अन्य hit गीतों , जैसे tik टोक , चीख & चिल्लाओ , lo hecho esta hecho , ख़राब , papi , ईंट , कैसा कम , tonight  ( I 'm Lovin ' You ) , Video Phone , Over To You Now and Bumpy Ride .
Pérez is also the host of his own Spanish-language program on the cable  चैनल mun2 titled la esquina ( स्पेनी लिये the  Corner ) .
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean  'diddy ' combs co-founded ख़राब लड़के लातीनी , a subsidiary of combs ' ख़राब लड़के रिकॉर्ड  label .
It primarily focuses on Latin hip hop ,  लैटिन आत्मा , लैटिन पॉप और अन्य तीव्र म्यूज़िक , और रै कार्यालयों in नई यॉर्क और  Miami , Florida .
Along with co-founding it ,  pérez फिलहाल heads the a & r  division of the label .
Pérez has become a product endorser ,  representing alongside ड्रेक , रिहाना , और trey songz the “so kodak” अभियान लिये the कोडक ब्रांड और embarking on a साझेदारी साथ the नरम पेय दानव dr pepper  as part of the campaign “ Vida 23 ” for which he recorded the song specifically featured on his album Armando .
Pitbull also  घोषित he रै become the प्रवक्ता लिये voli वोदका , in जिससे he holds a बहुमत  equity stake , and Budweiser has chosen Pitbull to promote its Bud Light line of beer .
The commercials currently highlight Pitbull dancing and  gyrating on स्टेज पकड़कर up a बोतल of कली लाइट  .
Pitbull has also purchased  an इक्विटी हिस्सेदारी in मियामी subs पिज़्ज़ा और  Grill .
हैलोवीन or hallowe'en ( a संकुचन of `` सब hallows ' संध्या `` ) , भी ज्ञात as सब hallows ' संध्या , is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on अक्तूबर  31 , the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars ,  सब hallows ' संध्या is a christianised feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय कटाई त्यौहार  , and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars maintain that it  originated independently of samhain और रै solely ईसाई  roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties , carving pumpkins  into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , ठहराना bobbing , visiting haunted आकर्षण , playing pranks , telling डरावने  stories , and watching horror films .
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's  राय और विचार using एक 's देह और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो  is willing to receive them .
The term freedom of expression is sometimes  प्रयुक्त synonymously , लकिन शामिल कोई अधिनियम of seeking , receiving और imparting सूचना or विचार , regardless of the  medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of speech is not  निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं , as साथ मानहानि , बदनामी , obscenity , राजद्रोह ( सहित , लिये उदाहरण inciting जातीय द्वेष ) , कापीराइट उल्लंघन ,  revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of  अभिव्यक्ति is पहचाना as a इंसान सही अंतर्गत आलेख 19 of the सार्वभौमिक घोषणा of इंसान अधिकारों और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय इंसान  rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR  राज्य कि `` [ e ] veryone shall have the सही to थाम राय बगैर हस्तक्षेप '' और `` everyone shall have the सही to स्वतंत्रता of अभिव्यक्ति ; इस सही shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता to तलाश , प्राप्त और impart सूचना और विचार of सब kinds  , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in writing or in print , in the form of art , or through any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on  to कह कि the कसरत of ये अधिकारों carries `` खास कर्तव्य और जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब  necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of  वाक may be legally curtailed in कुछ धार्मिक विधिक प्रणालियों और in धर्मनिरपेक्ष jurisdictions जहाँ  it is found to cause religious offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
Sydney  harbour इससे the एयर , प्रर्दशित the ओपेरा हाउस , the सीबीडी , गोलाकार quay , the सेतु , the parramatta  River , North Sydney and Kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour  सेतु is a स्टील through मेहराब सेतु आरपार सिडनी harbour कि carries रेल , vehicular ,  bicycle and pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central business district ( CBD ) and the North Shore .
The dramatic view of the bridge , the harbour , and  the आसपास सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस is an iconic चित्र of सिडनी , नई  South Wales , and Australia .
the सेतु is nicknamed `` the coathanger  '' because of its arch-based design .
Under the directions of  dr j.j.c . bradfield of the nsw विभाग of पब्लिक works , the सेतु थी designed और निर्मित  by British firm Dorman Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932 .
The bridge 's design was influenced by  the नरक फाटक  Bridge in New York .
It was the  संसार 's widest long-span सेतु , at 48.8 मीटर ( 160 फीट ) चौड़ी ,  until construction of the new Port Mann Bridge in Vancouver .
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch bridge  in the संसार , और it is the tallest स्टील मेहराब सेतु , measuring इससे  top to water level .
Until 1967 the Harbour  सेतु थी सिडनी 's tallest ढांचा  .
the हवाई हॉटस्पॉट is a volcanic हॉटस्पॉट स्तिथ निकट  the namesake Hawaiian Islands , in the northern Pacific Ocean .
One of the most well-known and heavily studied hotspots in the world , the Hawaii plume is responsible for the creation of the Hawaiian –  सम्राट seamount कड़ी , an over 5,800 किलोमीटर ( 3,600 mi ) long कड़ी of ज्वालामुखी , चार of जिससे हैं क्रियाशील , दो of जिससे हैं dormant , और अधिक than  123 of which are extinct , many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls .
The chain extends from south of the island of Hawaii to the  किनारे of the aleutian गर्त , निकट the पूर्वी किनारे of रूस  .
While most volcanoes are created by geological activity  at tectonic थाली सीमाएँ , the हवाई हॉटस्पॉट is स्तिथ दूर इससे आसपास थाली सीमाएँ ; the क्लासिक हॉटस्पॉट सिद्धान्त , पहला प्रस्तावित in 1963 by जॉन tuzo विल्सन , proposes कि  a single , fixed mantle plume builds volcanoes that then , cut off from their source by the movement of the Pacific Plate , become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years .
According to this  सिद्धान्त , the nearly 60° बेंड separating the सम्राट और हवाई खण्ड of the कड़ी  was caused by a sudden shift in the movement of the Pacific Plate .
In 2003 , fresh  investigations of इस irregularity led to the प्रस्ताव of a मोबाईल हॉटस्पॉट सिद्धान्त , suggesting कि हॉटस्पॉट हैं मोबाईल , नहीं फिक्स्ड  , and that the 47 million year old bend was caused by a shift in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's .
प्राचीन hawaiians यहूद the पहला to recognize the increasing आयु और weathered राज्य  of the volcanoes to the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands .
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and their  निरंतर बैटल साथ the समुद्र थी a प्रमुख तत्व in हवाई mythology , समाविष्ट  in Pele , the deity of volcanoes .
After the arrival of Europeans on the island , in 1880-1881 James Dwight Dana directed  the पहला औपचारिक geological पढ़ाई of the हॉटस्पॉट 's volcanics , confirming the संबंध long observed  by the natives .
1912 marked  the founding of the हवाई ज्वालामुखी वेधशाला by volcanologist थामस jaggar , initiating निरन्तर  scientific observation of the islands .
In the 1970s , a  मानचित्रण प्रोजेक्ट थी initiated to लाभ अधिक सूचना  about the complex geology of Hawaii 's seafloor .
The hotspot has since been  tomographically imaged , प्रर्दशित it to be चौड़ी और up to गहन , और ओलीवाइन और गार्नेट -आधारd अध्ययन have दिखाया इसके मैग्मा  chamber is approximately .
In its at least 85 million years of  कार्यकलाप the हॉटस्पॉट रै उत्पादित an अनुमानित  of rock .
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time , causing the amount of time each  व्यक्तिगत ज्वालामुखी is क्रियाशील to घटी , इससे 18 लाख सालो लिये the 76 लाख साल बूढ़ा डेट्रॉयट seamount , to बस अंतर्गत 900,000 लिये the एक लाख year-old kohala ; on the अन्य हाथ  , eruptive volume has increased from per year to about .
Overall , this has caused a trend towards more active but quickly-silenced , closely spaced  volcanoes—whereas ज्वालामुखी on the निकट पक्ष of the हॉटस्पॉट ओवरलैप प्रत्येक अन्य ( forming ऐसे superstructures as हवाई द्वीप और the प्राचीन मावी नुई ) , the oldest  of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart .
David Palmer , director of the show , announced that the  ऋतु 4 finale is the श्रेणी finale क्युकी निकलोडियन रद्द the  show .
Petitions are being  हस्ताक्षरित to लाओ the दिखाएँ लिये a पांचवां ऋतु  .
The show  airs on treehouse tv कनाडा और  Nick Jr. ( formerly Noggin ) .
Eddie and  the cruisers is a 1983 अमरीकी फिल्मी निर्देशित by मार्टिन डेविडसन साथ  the screenplay written by the director and Arlene Davidson , based on the novel by P. F. Kluge .
It was  marketed साथ the टैगलाइन  `` Rebel .
रॉकर .
प्रेमी  .
आइडल .
vanished . ''
Osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) is a  कठोर अस्थि बीमारी कि affects the maxilla और  the mandible .
विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of onj have महरूम वर्णित over the पिछला 160 सालो , और  a number of causes have been suggested in the literature .
Osteonecrosis of the jaws associated with bisphosphonate therapy , required by some cancer treatment  regimens , रै महरूम पहचाना और पारिभाषित as a pathological एंटिटी चूंकि 2003  .
The possible risk from lower oral  doses of bisphosphonates , लिया by मरीजों to prevent  or treat osteoporosis , remains uncertain .
Various treatment options have  महरूम छान , however कठोर मामले of onj स्टिल आवश्यकता सर्जिकल हटाना  of the affected bone .
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing systemic  समस्याएं और संभावित साइट of दंत संक्रमण हैं जरूरी to सहायता prevent the कंडीशन , विशेषकर if bisphosphonate  therapy is considered .
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball  टोली आधारित in बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स , और a सदस्य of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल 's अमरीकी  League Eastern Division .
Founded in as one of the American League 's eight  चार्टर franchises , the रेड sox 's घर ballpark रै महरूम fenway पार्क चूंकि .
The `` Red Sox '' name was chosen by the team owner , John I.  टेलर , around , following पिछला बोस्टन टीमों कि था महरूम ज्ञात as the `` रेड stockings  `` .
They have played in  11 संसार श्रेणी , जीतना  7 .
Boston was a dominant team in the new league , defeating  the पिट्सबर्ग pirates in the पहला संसार श्रेणी in और जीतना चार  more championships by .
However , they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history , called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged beginning with  the रेड sox 's बिक्री of बेब रुथ to the प्रतिद्वंद्वी यांकीज़ दो सालो बाद उनके संसार चैंपियनशिप in 1918 , an 86-year इंतजार पहले the टोली 's छठे संसार चैंपियनशिप  in .
However , the team 's history during that period was hardly one of futility , but  थी बल्कि punctuated साथ कुछ of the सबसे यादगार पल in संसार श्रेणी इतिहास , सहित enos वध 's ``  mad dash `` in , the `` Impossible Dream `` of , Carlton Fisk 's home run in , and Bill Buckner 's error in .
Red Sox history has also been marked by  the टोली 's तीव्र फंसने साथ the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ , arguably the fiercest और सबसे ऐतिहासिक  in North American professional sports .
The Boston Red Sox are owned by  fenway खेल समूह , जो भी अपना लिवरपूल फ़ुटबॉल क्लबों of  the Premier League in England .
The  रेड sox हैं consistently एक of the शीर्ष एमएलबी टीमों in औसत सड़क उपस्थिति , जबकि the छोटी  capacity of Fenway Park prevents them from leading in overall attendance .
From May 15 , 2003  to अप्रैल 10 , 2013 , the रेड sox बेची आउट प्रत्येक घर game-a कुल of 820 खेल ( 794 नियमित ऋतु ) लिये a  major professional sports record that lasted almost a decade .
Mince pie  भर साथ mincemeat
Mincemeat is  a मिश्रण of कटा सूखी फल , आसुत आत्माओं और मसाले , और  sometimes beef suet , beef , or venison .
originally , mincemeat सदा contained मांस  .
Many modern recipes contain beef suet  , हालांकि सब्ज़ी shortening is sometimes प्रयुक्त in इसके प्लेस  .
Variants of  mincemeat हैं मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , ब्रिटनी , कनाडा , उत्तरी यूरोपीय , आयरलैंड , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , the संयुक्त  Kingdom and the United States .
In  कुछ देशों the पद mincemeat refers  to minced or ground meat .
Diana , Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961 – 31  अगस्त 1997 ) थी the पहला बीवी of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स , the ज्येष्ठ बेटे और वारिस apparent of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ ii  .
She was well known  लिये उसके fund-raising कार्य लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय धर्मार्थ और as an प्रतिष्ठित हस्ती of the लेट  20th century .
Her wedding to the  प्रिंस of वेल्स on 29 जुलाई 1981 थी आयोजित at st पॉल 's गिरजाघर और  seen by a global television audience of over 750 million .
While married she bore the  शीर्षक राजकुमारी of वेल्स , duchess of कॉर्नवॉल , duchess of rothesay , countess  of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew .
The  विवाह उत्पादित दो बेटे , the princes विलियम और हैरी , जो became दूसरी  and third in line to the British throne .
डायना थी born into an वैभवशाली अंग्रेज़ी परिवार  with royal ancestry .
She was the fourth child of John Spencer , 8th Earl Spencer and his  बीवी frances , बेटी of मौरिस रोश ,  4th Baron Fermoy .
She became a public figure with  the घोषणा of उसके सगाई .
She  भी प्राप्त मान्यता लिये उसके दान कार्य और लिये उसके support  of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines .
From 1989 , she was the president of the  ग्रेट ormond गली हॉस्पिटल लिये children , in जोड to  dozens of other charities .
डायना remained the ऑब्जेक्ट of विश्वव्यापी मीडिया scrutiny दौरान और बाद उसके विवाह  , which ended in divorce on 28 August 1996 .
Media attention and public  शोक यहूद considerable following उसके मौत in a car क्रैश in पेरिस on 31  August 1997 .
Argentina , officially the Argentine  गणतंत्र ( ) , is the दूसरी largest देश in दोनो दक्षिण अमेरिका और the लैटिन अमेरिका  region .
The  देश is a संघ of 23 प्रांतों और the autonomous नगर of buenos आयर्स ,  its capital and largest city .
It is the eighth -largest  देश in the संसार by जमीन क्षेत्रफल और the largest among spanish-speaking राष्ट्र by भौगोलिक  area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by population , with over 41 million people .
Argentina is a founding  सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , mercosur , the संघ of दक्षिण अमरीकी राष्ट्र , the संगठन of ibero-american राज्य  , the World Bank Group and the World Trade Organization , and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies .
Argentina is located in South America , bordered  by चिली to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण , बोलीविया और पैराग्वे to the उत्तर और ब्राज़ील और उरुग्वे  to the northeast .
Argentina claims sovereignty over part of Antarctica , the Falkland  आइलैंड्स ( ) और दक्षिण जॉर्जिया और the दक्षिण  Sandwich Islands .
Argentina is the successor  राज्य of the viceroyalty of the río de la प्लाटा , an विदेशी उपनिवेश  of the Spanish Empire .
Argentina  घोषित स्वतंत्रता दौरान the अर्जेंटाइन युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता , जिससे थी followed by  the Argentine Civil Wars during most of the 19th century .
The country  faced अनेक सैन्य coups और राजनैतिक अस्थिरता दौरान the 20th सदी  , along with periodic economic crisis that continue to this day .
A recognized Southern Cone power ,  और मध्य शक्ति , अर्जेंटीना is लैटिन अमेरिका 's third-largest अर्थव्यवस्था , साथ a `` बहुत  high '' rating on the Human development index .
Within  लैटिन अमेरिका , अर्जेंटीना रै the पांचवां उच्चतम नाममात्र जीडीपी प्रति capita और  the highest in purchasing power terms .
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a  `` न्यास लिये भविष्य विकास due to इसके मार्केट आकार , स्तर of विदेशी सीधा निवेश , और प्रतिशत of high-tech  exports as share of total manufactured goods '' , and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy .
Argentina is  the लैटिन अमरीकी देश साथ the सबसे नोबेल पुरस्कार , लिये a कुल of पाँच , सब  obtained during the second half of the twentieth century .
The country  रै तीन नोबेल पुरस्कार in विज्ञान  and two of peace .
The most important aspects of science and technology in  अर्जेंटीना हैं चिंतित साथ आयुर्विज्ञान , नाभिकीय भौतिकी , जैवप्रौद्योगिकी , nanotechnology , स्पेस और प्रक्षेपास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी और अनेक फ़ील्ड सम्बन्धित to the देश  's Main Economic Activities .
The country also has the mega  प्रदर्शनी बीच of विज्ञान , प्रौद्योगिकी , उद्योग और आर्ट कि हैं लैटिन अमेरिका  's largest .
Hickory is a city in  catawba काउंटी , साथ भाग भी in बुर्के काउंटी और काल्डवेल  County .
The city 's  2010 अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी is 40,010  .
Hickory is the principal city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton  एमएसए , in जिससे the जनसांख्यिकी at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी थी  365,497 .
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ) ,  commonly abbreviated पालतु , पीट , or the obsolete petp or pet-p , is a thermoplastic पॉलिमर राल of the पॉलिएस्टर परिवार और is प्रयुक्त in सिंथेटिक मछली ; पेय , खाना  and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber .
The term polyethylene  terephthalate is a सोर्स of भ्रम क्युकी इस पदार्थ  , PET , does not contain polyethylene .
Thus , the alternate form , poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ,  is प्रायः प्रयुक्त in scholarly जर्नल्स लिये the खातिर of सटीकता  and clarity .
Depending  on इसके प्रसंस्करण और थर्मल इतिहास , polyethylene terephthalate may मौजूद दोनो as an amorphous  ( transparent ) and as a semi-crystalline polymer .
The  semicrystalline सामग्री might appear पारदर्शी ( कण आकार < 500 nm ) or अपारदर्शी और श्वेत ( कण  size up to a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size .
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by  the esterification प्रतिक्रिया between terephthalic एसिड और एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल साथ जल as a byproduct , or by transesterification प्रतिक्रिया  between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct .
Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the  monomers ( किया तत्काल बाद esterification/transesterification  ) with water as the byproduct .
The  बहुमत of the संसार 's पालतु उत्पादन is लिये सिंथेटिक मछली ( in excess of 60  % ) , with bottle production accounting for around 30 % of global demand .
In  the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of वस्त्र अनुप्रयोग , पालतु is referred to by इसके आम नाम , `` पॉलिएस्टर  , '' whereas the acronym `` PET '' is generally used in relation to packaging .
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world  पॉलिमर उत्पादन और is the third-most-produced पॉलिमर  ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second , respectively .
PET consists of polymerized units of the monomer  एथिलीन terephthalate , साथ repeating c10h8o4  units .
PET is commonly recycled , and has the  क्रमांक `` 1 '' as इसके रीसाइक्लिंग  symbol .
Louisiana was admitted  to the संघ on अप्रैल 30 , 1812 , और elects सीनेटरों to  Classes 2 and Class 3 .
इसके वर्तमान सीनेटरों हैं डेमोक्रेट मरियम landrieu  and Republican David Vitter .
Black pudding ,  रक्त खीर or रक्त सॉसेज is a प्रकार of सॉसेज बना by कुकिंग रक्त or सूखी रक्त  with a filler until it is thick enough to congeal when cooled .
The dish exists in various  संस्कृतियों इससे एशिया to यूरोपीय और the americas  .
सुअर , चौपायों , शीप , बतख , और बकरी रक्त  can be used depending on different countries .
In Europe and the Americas ,  ठेठ fillers शामिल मांस , मोटे , suet , ब्रैड , cornmeal , मीठी आलू , प्याज ,  chestnuts , barley , and oatmeal .
In Spain ,  पुर्तगाल और एशिया , आलू is प्रायः  replaced by rice .
शेयरधारक may refer  to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ) , a person , group  , संगठन , सदस्य or प्रणाली जो affects or can be प्रभावित by an संगठन  's actions
Stakeholder , an entity that can be affected by the results of that in  जिससे वे हैं कहा to be हितधारकों , i.e.  , that in which they have a stake .
Project  शेयरधारक , a व्यक्ति , समूह or संगठन साथ an ब्याज  in a project
Stakeholder theory , a theory that identifies  और मॉडल the समूह जिससे हैं हितधारकों of a निगम or प्रोजेक्ट
शेयरधारक विश्लेषण , the प्रक्रम of identifying those प्रभावित  by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ) ,  a तीसरा पार्टी जो temporarily holds धन or प्रॉपर्टी जबकि इसके मालिक is स्टिल  being determined
Jack  smight ( कूच 9 , 1925 - सितंबर 1 , 2003 ) थी an अमरीकी  theatre and film director .
Smight was born in  मिनियापोलिस , मिनेसोटा और गई to स्कूल साथ भविष्य कर्ता  Peter Graves .
His film credits include The  traveling जल्लाद , खरगोश , चलाएं , मीत युगल , मिडवे , हार्पर , विमानक्षेत्र 1975 , फटकार alley और the एमी पुरस्कार -winning एडी , as खूब as अनेक एपीसोड of टेलीविज़न  series such as The Twilight Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour .
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th Cousin and composed the music for the  फिल्मी adaption of फेंकें of थंडर सुन my क्राई .
Smight died from  कर्कट in लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 February 1834 – 2 February 1907  o.s . 27 जनवरी 1834 – 20 जनवरी 1907 ) थी a रूसी केमिस्ट और आविष्कारक  .
He formulated the Periodic Law , created his own version of the  आवधिक तालिका of तत्व , और प्रयुक्त it to सही the गुण of कुछ already खोजा  elements and also to predict the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for  `` modest '' ) , officially the नगर of modesto , is the काउंटी सीट और largest नगर of stanislaus  County , California , United States .
With  a जनसांख्यिकी of लगभग 201,165 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी , modesto बाँधने as the  18th largest city in the state of California .
The Modesto Census County  प्रभाग , जिससे शामिल the शहरों of ceres और riverbank , रै a जनसांख्यिकी of 312,842  as of 2010 .
Modesto is located in the central valley area of Northern California , 90 miles north of Fresno , 92 miles east of San  फ्रांसिस्को , 68 मील दक्षिण of the राज्य पूंजी of sacramento , 66  miles west of Yosemite National Park , and 24 miles south of Stockton .
Modesto , a  29-time पेड़ नगर यूएसए honoree , is घिरी by समृद्ध farmland , lending to a रैंकिंग लिये  the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production .
Led by milk , almonds , chickens , walnuts ,  और मकई साइलेज , the काउंटी grossed nearly $ 3.1 अरब in agricultural उत्पादन in  2011 .
Modesto was immortalized in  the 1973 जार्ज लुकास फिल्मी अमरीकी graffiti  .
The award winning film captured the spirit of `` cruising '' and friendship on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and led to  the पुनरुद्धार of 1950 's nostalgia कि शामिल the tv दिखाएँ प्रसन्न दिनों और the अन्य spin-offs  .
Ron Howard ,  हैरिसन घाट और रिचर्ड dreyfuss स्ट्रक्चर in  the film .
The  साउंडट्रैक थी a विशाल कामयाबी  .
Director George  लुकास is a देशी of modesto ,  graduating from Downey High School in 1962 .
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011 , which  साक्षात्कार 1,000 भागीदार रोज़ और asks individuals to assess उनके कार्य , finances , शारीरिक स्वास्थ्य , emotional राज्य of दिमाग और समुदायों , क्रमित modesto  126 out of the 190 cities surveyed .
In December 2009 , Forbes ranked  modesto 48th आउट of 100 among `` बेहतरीन bang-for-the-buck  Cities '' .
In  इस रैंकिंग , modesto क्रमित 8th in आवास affordability और सफर समय  but also ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures .
Independence Day , commonly known as the Fourth of July , is a federal holiday in the United States  commemorating the अपनाना of the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता on जुलाई 4 , 1776 , declaring स्वतंत्रता इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  .
Independence Day is commonly associated with fireworks ,  parades , barbecues , carnivals , मेलों , picnics , कॉन्सर्ट , बेसबॉल खेल , परिवार reunions , और राजनैतिक भाषणों और ceremonies , in जोड to विभिन्न अन्य पब्लिक और निजी कार्यक्रम celebrating  the history , government , and traditions of the United States .
स्वतंत्रता दिन is the नेशनल दिन of  the United States .
A gender symbol denotes the  sex of an सजीव or characterizes an एजेंट by लिंग  .
The two standard gender symbols denoting male ♂ and female ♀ are  निकला इससे astrological प्रतीकों , denoting the शास्त्रीय ग्रह मंगल और शुक्र ,  respectively .
These symbols have been in use since the Renaissance  भी denoting तत्व in alchemy  , specifically the metals iron and copper .
They were first used to denote the  प्रभावी लिंग of पौधे ( i.e . sex of व्यक्तिगत in a दिए crossbreed , चूंकि सबसे पौधे हैं hermaphroditic  ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751 .
A leasehold  एस्टेट is an स्वामित्व of a अस्थाई सही to थाम जमीन or प्रॉपर्टी in जिससे a lessee or a किरायेदार holds अधिकारों  of real property by some form of title from a lessor or landlord .
हालांकि a किरायेदार करता थाम अधिकारों to रियल प्रॉपर्टी , a  leasehold estate is typically considered personal property .
Leasehold is a form of  जमीन कार्यकाल or प्रॉपर्टी कार्यकाल जहाँ एक पार्टी खरीदता the सही to occupy जमीन or a भवन  for a given length of time .
As lease is a  विधिक एस्टेट , leasehold एस्टेट can be खरीदा और  sold on the open market .
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and  thereafter आयोजित लिये an अनिर्धार्य लंबाई of समय , और भी differs इससे a tenancy जहाँ a प्रॉपर्टी is let ( rented ) on a आवधिक आधार ऐसे as साप्ताहिक  or monthly .
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in decades or  सदियां ; a 99 साल पट्टे is काफी आम ) the leaseholder रै the सही to remain in occupation as an assured किरायेदार paying  an agreed rent to the owner .
शर्तें of the अनुबंध हैं contained in a पट्टे , जिससे रै तत्व of अनुबंध  and property law intertwined .
The term estate  लिये सालो may occasionally be  used .
This  refers to a leasehold एस्टेट लिये कोई विशिष्ट काल  of time ( the word `` years '' is misleading ) .
An estate for years  is नहीं automatically नवीनीकृत .
colloquially , `` पट्टे '' और `` पट्टे `` हैं प्रायः a formalization of a longer , विशिष्ट काल as compared साथ a `` rental '' कि निर्मित a tenancy  at will , terminable or renewable at the end of a short period .
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the World of the Pig Olivia ) is a British-American  children 's एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी उत्पादित by मीडिया कम्पनी chorion और आधारित on इयान falconer 's किताबे  .
It is  देखी on उपनाम jr. in the us ,  Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and  आयरलैंड , और डिज़्नी जूनियर in लैटिन अमेरिका और ब्राज़ील , treehouse  TV in Canada .
The show has won a  चांदी अभिभावक ' चुनाव पुरस्कार लिये इसके धनात्मक  story lines and characters .
Location of Panama  between प्रशांत ( नीचे ) और caribbean ( शीर्ष ) , साथ कनाल  at top center
the पनामा कनाल ( ) is a जलयान कनाल in पनामा कि connects the  Atlantic Ocean ( via the Caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific Ocean .
The canal cuts  आरपार the isthmus of पनामा और is a कुंजी conduit लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय  maritime trade .
There are locks at  प्रत्येक समाप्त to लिफ्ट जहाजों up to gatun झील (  above sea-level ) .
gatun झील थी निर्मित to reduce the राशि  of work required for the canal .
The current  ताले हैं चौड़ी  .
A  तीसरा , wider लेन of ताले is होने  built .
France began work on the canal in  1881 , लकिन था to रोकें क्युकी of अभियान्त्रिकी समस्याएं और ऊँची  mortality due to disease .
The United States ( US )  बाद took over the प्रोजेक्ट और took a दशक to पूरा the कनाल in 1914 , enabling जहाजों to avoid the lengthy केप सींग रूट around the southernmost टिप of दक्षिण अमेरिका  ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan .
One of the largest and most difficult engineering projects ever  undertaken , the पनामा कनाल शॉर्टकट बना it संभावित लिये जहाजों to सफर between the अटलांटिक और प्रशांत महासागर in हाफ the समय previously  required .
The shorter , faster , safer route to the US West Coast and to nations in and  साथ the प्रशांत समंदर अनुमत those स्थान to become अधिक एकीकृत साथ the संसार  economy .
During this time ,  स्वामित्व of the territory कि is अभी the पनामा कनाल  was first Colombian , then French , and then American ; the United States completed the construction .
The canal was taken over in  1999 by the panamanian सरकारी , as long नियोजित  .
सालाना ट्रैफ़िक रै risen इससे परिचय 1,000 जहाजों जब the कनाल खोली in 1914 , to 14,702 बरतन in  2008 , the latter measuring a total of 309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons .
By 2008 , more than 815,000  बरतन था passed through the कनाल , अनेक of उन्हें much larger than the असली planners could have envisioned ;  the largest ships that can transit the canal today are called Panamax .
The American  समाज of सिविल इंजीनियर्स रै नामित the पनामा कनाल एक of the सात चमत्कार  of the modern world .
Benjamin Franklin ( April  17 , 1790 ) थी एक of the founding fathers of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
A noted polymath ,  फ्रैंकलिन थी a अग्रणी लेखक , मुद्रक , राजनैतिक theorist , राजनेता , postmaster , वैज्ञानिक , संगीतकार  , inventor , satirist , civic activist , statesman , and diplomat .
As a scientist , he was a  प्रमुख फिगर in the अमरीकी आत्मज्ञान और the इतिहास of भौतिकी लिये उसके discoveries  and theories regarding electricity .
He invented the lightning rod ,  bifocals , the फ्रैंकलिन स्टोव , a carriage ओडोमीटर , और the कांच  'armonica ' .
He facilitated many  नागरिक संगठन , सहित a आग विभाग और  a university .
Franklin earned the title of `` The First American '' for his early and  indefatigable campaigning लिये औपनिवेशिक एकता ; as an लेखक और प्रवक्ता in लंदन लिये अनेक colonies , तब as the पहला संयुक्त  States Ambassador to France , he exemplified the emerging American nation .
Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift , hard work , education , community spirit ,  self-governing संस्थानों , और विपक्ष to authoritarianism दोनो राजनैतिक और धार्मिक , साथ the वैज्ञानिक और सहिष्णु मान of the आत्मज्ञान  .
In the words of  इतिहासकार हेनरी स्टील commager , `` in a फ्रैंकलिन could be मिलाया the virtues of puritanism  without its defects , the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat . ''
To  वाल्टर isaacson , इस makes फ्रैंकलिन `` the सबसे संपन्नता अमरीकी of उसके आयु और the सबसे  influential in inventing the type of society America would become . ''
Franklin , always  गर्व of उसके working क्लास जड़ें , became a कामयाब समाचारपत्र एडिटर और मुद्रक in फिलाडेल्फिया , the  leading city in the colonies .
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of whom published the Pennsylvania  वृत्तान्त , a समाचारपत्र कि थी ज्ञात लिये इसके क्रांतिकारी sentiments और आलोचनाओं of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य  in the American colonies .
He became wealthy  प्रकाशन ग़रीब रिचर्ड 's almanack और the पेन्सिलवेनिया गजट  .
Franklin gained international renown as a scientist for his  प्रसिद्ध प्रयोग in विद्युत और लिये उसके अनेक आविष्कारों , विशेषकर the बिजली  rod .
He  निभाई a प्रमुख भूमिका in establishing the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया और थी निर्वाचित  the first president of the American Philosophical Society .
Franklin became a national hero in America  जब he पथप्रदर्शन the प्रयत्न to have पार्लियामेंट repeal  the unpopular Stamp Act .
An accomplished diplomat , he was widely admired  among the फ्रेंच as अमरीकी मंत्री to पेरिस और थी a प्रमुख फिगर in the विकास  of positive Franco-American relations .
लिये अनेक सालो he थी the अंग्रेजों postmaster लिये the colonies , जिससे सक्रिय  him to set up the first national communications network .
He was  क्रियाशील in जातियाँ अफेयर्स , औपनिवेशिक और राज्य राजनीती , as  well as national and international affairs .
From 1785 to 1788 , he  परोसा as राज्यपाल of पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Toward the end of his  जीवन , he freed उसके स्लेव और became एक of the सबसे prominent  abolitionists .
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement , and status as one  of अमेरिका 's सबसे influential founding fathers , have देखी फ्रैंकलिन सम्मानित on coinage और धन ; warships ; the names of अनेक कस्बों , काउंटी , शैक्षणिक संस्थानों , namesakes , और कंपनियाँ ; और अधिक than दो सदियां बाद उसके मौत , अनगिनत  cultural references .
Criminal Minds is an American  पुलिस प्रक्रियात्मक टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम कि premiered सितंबर  22 , 2005 , on CBS .
The series follows a team of profilers from the FBI 's Behavioral  विश्लेषण ईकाई ( bau ) आधारित in क्वांटिको  , Virginia .
The BAU is  भाग of the एफबीआई नेशनल बीच लिये the विश्लेषण  of Violent Crime .
The show differs  इससे अनेक प्रक्रियात्मक dramas by focusing on प्रोफाइलिंग the  criminal , rather than the crime itself .
The show is produced  by the चिह्नित गॉर्डन कम्पनी in संघ साथ सीबीएस टेलीविज़न studios ( originally सर्वोपरि संजाल टेलीविज़न तब सीबीएस सर्वोपरि संजाल  Television ) and ABC Studios ( originally Touchstone Television ) .
CBS announced in October 2009 that Legacy  इंटरैक्टिव होता develop a वीडियो खेल आधारित  on the show .
The game  होता आवश्यकता खिलाड़ी to जाँचें अपराधों दृश्यों लिये clues to  help solve murder mysteries .
The interactive puzzle game was released in  2012 , लकिन किया नहीं विशेषता कोई of the आवाज़ें of the दिखाएँ 's डाल , nor थी the डाल  involved with the project .
On  कूच 14 , 2012 , सीबीएस नवीनीकृत दण्ड minds लिये an आठवीं ऋतु , जिससे premiered  on September 26 , 2012 .
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a song by the American  grunge बैंड निर्वाण , लिखा by vocalist और guitarist कर्ट कोबेन .
The song was released as the  पहला सिंगल इससे the समूह 's तीसरा और फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम ,  In Utero , in 1993 .
It was one of two songs from the  एल्बम मिश्रित by स्कॉट litt in अनुक्रम to augment the असली उत्पादन  by producer Steve Albini .
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a  शारीरिक सिंगल लिये बिक्री in the संयुक्त राज्य , `` heart-shaped बक्सा '' प्राप्त much अमरीकी रेडियो airplay , reaching क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड आधुनिक चट्टान ट्रैक्स चार्ट  .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय रिलीज of the सिंगल पहुँचे क्रमांक पाँच on  the UK Singles Chart .
the सोंग 's म्यूज़िक वीडियो , निर्देशित by एंटोन corbijn  , garnered critical plaudits .
The orbital speed of a body , generally a planet ,  a प्राकृतिक उपग्रह , an कृत्रिम उपग्रह , or a अनेक स्टार , is the गति at जिससे it orbits around the barycenter  of a system , usually around a more massive body .
It can be used to refer to  either the औसत कक्षीय गति , the औसत गति as it completes an कक्षा , or instantaneous कक्षीय गति , the गति  at a particular point in its orbit .
The orbital speed at any position in  the कक्षा can be computed इससे the अलहदा to the सेंट्रल देह at कि स्थिति , और the विशिष्ट कक्षीय उर्जा , जिससे is स्वतंत्र of स्थिति  : the kinetic energy is the total energy minus the potential energy .
Brown  राजमहल आंतरिक और अलिंद
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest operating hotel  in डेनवर , कोलोराडो और is एक of the पहला atrium-style होटल  ever built .
It is now  संचालित by कोरम होटल और रिसॉर्ट  .
It was built in 1892  , एक साल बाद than the ऑक्सफोर्ड  Hotel .
It was named for its original owner , Henry  C. भूरा , और थी designed साथ इसके विषम triangular आकार by वास्तु फ़्रैंक  Edbrooke .
The hotel is  स्तिथ at 321 17th st , डेनवर , co between 17th गली , ब्रॉडवे और tremont street/pl  in downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza .
The  प्रमुख प्रवेश द्वार is  on Tremont Street .
DVD-Video is a consumer  वीडियो स्वरूप प्रयुक्त to स्टोर डिजिटल वीडियो on dvd discs , और is फिलहाल the प्रबल उपभोक्ता वीडियो  format in Asia , North America , Europe , and Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2  डिकोडर ( e.g. , a dvd खिलाड़ी , or a कंप्यूटर dvd ड्राइव साथ  a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD  फिल्मों हैं एनकोडेड using a संयोजन of h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 संपीडित वीडियो और ऑडियो of varying स्वरुप  ( often multi-channel formats as described below ) .
Typically , the data rate for DVD movies ranges from  3 mbit/s to 9.5 mbit/s , और the  bit rate is usually adaptive .
It was first  उपलब्धियाँ लिये खुदरा around  1997 .
The DVD-Video specification was  निर्मित by dvd फ़ोरम और can be प्राप्त इससे dvd format/logo लाइसेंसिंग  Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000 .
The specification is not publicly  उपलब्धियाँ , क्युकी प्रत्येक सदस्य जरूर चिह्न a non-disclosure  agreement .
Certain information in  the dvd किताब is मालिकाना और गोपनीय  .
The nautical mile ( symbol M , NM or nmi ) is a unit of length that is about one minute of arc  of अक्षांश measured साथ कोई मध्याह्न , or परिचय एक मिनट of चाप of देशांतर  at the equator .
By international agreement it has been  नियत at 1,852 मीटर exactly ( परिचय 6,076 फीट )  .
it is a non- si ईकाई ( हालांकि स्वीकृत लिये उपयोग in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली of इकाई by the bipm ) प्रयुक्त विशेषकर  by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries , and also in polar exploration .
It is commonly used in international law and  treaties , विशेषकर regarding the हद of territorial  waters .
It  विकसित इससे the समुद्र मील और the  related geographical mile .
The nautical mile remains in  उपयोग by समुद्र और एयर navigators विश्वव्यापी क्युकी of इसके convenience  when working with charts .
Most nautical charts use the  मर्केटर प्रक्षेप जिनकी स्केल varies by परिचय a फ़ैक्टर of छह इससे the equator to 80° अक्षांश , so चार्ट covering विशाल  areas can not use a single linear scale .
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a  मिनट of अक्षांश on a चार्ट , so a अलहदा measured साथ a चार्ट divider can be  roughly converted to nautical miles using the chart 's latitude scale .
Shippensburg is a borough  in कम्बरलैंड और फ्रैंकलिन काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of  Pennsylvania .
Settled in 1730 , Shippensburg lies in the Cumberland Valley ,  41 मील ( 66 km ) west-southwest of harrisburg , और is भाग of the harrisburg– carlisle महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
In 1900 , 3,228  लोगों जिया वहीँ ; in 1910 , 3,457 ; और in 1940 , 5,244  people lived there .
The population was 5,492  at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी .
shippensburg थी incorporated as a बरो on जनवरी  21 , 1819 .
In the past , there were furniture factories ,  इंजन और पंप works , और अन्य औद्योगिक works स्तिथ भीतर the कस्बा  .
Shippensburg is also the home of The Beistle Company , the oldest and  largest निर्माता of सजावट और पार्टी goods , जिससे बिकता इसके distinctive मधुकोश पेपर सजावट  worldwide .
It is  भी the स्थान of pague और fegan , the oldest लगातार  operated hardware store in Pennsylvania .
In May  2012 , वोल्वो निर्माण उपकरण began a $ 100 लाख विस्तार प्रोजेक्ट to लाओ इसके  American headquarters to Shippensburg .
Shippensburg is also home to Shippensburg  विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया , एक of 14 विश्वविद्यालयों of the पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य  System of Higher Education .
Yearly  the पिछला पूरा सप्ताह of जुलाई , the shippensburg जातियाँ  Fair is held .
Begun in 1958 , the fair bills itself as  पेन्सिलवेनिया 's largest bi-county  fair .
The fair includes agricultural  दर्शाती , a शिल्प दिखाएँ , खाना विक्रेता , और कार्निवल यात्राएँ amongst  other things .
Every summer on the last Saturday of  अगस्त , shippensburg holds the मकई पर्व , an इवेंट कि brings क्षेत्रीय शिल्पकार और विक्रेता to operate  stands downtown .
The downtown is closed to traffic  लिये at तनिक 5 ब्लॉक लिये सबसे of the  day .
Average attendance at  the पर्व is अनुमानित at 60,000  - 70,000 each year .
Black hairy  जीभ ( bht , भी termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a कंडीशन of the जीभ जहाँ the filiform papillae  elongate with black or brown discoloration , giving a black and hairy appearance .
The  रूप may be alarming ,  but it is a harmless condition .
predisposing कारकों शामिल धूम्रपान , xerostomia ( शुष्क मुँह ) , नरम आहार , ग़रीब  oral hygiene and certain medications .
Management is by improving oral  hygiene , विशेषकर scraping or brushing the जीभ  .
the आईईईई 1394 इंटरफ़ेस is a सीरियल बस इंटरफ़ेस मानक लिये high-speed  communications and isochronous real-time data transfer .
It was developed in the late 1980s and  जल्दी 1990s by ठहराना , जो पुकारा it firewire  .
The 1394 interface is comparable to USB ,  और प्रायः those दो technologies हैं माना साथ ,  though USB has more market share .
Apple first included FireWire in some of its 1999 models , and  सबसे ठहराना कंप्यूटर चूंकि the साल 2000 have शामिल firewire पोर्ट , हालांकि , as of 2013 , nothing परे the 800 संस्करण  ( IEEE-1394b ) .
The interface is also  ज्ञात by the ब्रांड i.link ( सोनी  ) , and Lynx ( Texas Instruments ) .
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many  अनुप्रयोग , क्युकी of निम्नतर क्रियान्वयन लागत और a सरलीकृत , अधिक अनुकूलनीय  cabling system .
the 1394 मानक भी defines a backplane  interface , though this is not as widely used .
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video  संजाल गठबंधन ( हाना ) मानक कनेक्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये a/v ( audio/visual ) घटक  communication and control .
FireWire is also available in wireless , fiber  ऑप्टिक , और समाक्षीय संस्करण using the isochronous प्रोटोकॉल  .
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3 , 1954 –  अगस्त 27 , 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist , singer-songwriter ,  and record producer .
Often  referred to by उसके आद्याक्षर srv , vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding सदस्य  and leader of Double Trouble .
Together with drummer Chris Layton and  bassist टॉमी शैनन , वे ignited the ब्लूज़ पुनरुद्धार  of the 1980s .
With a career spanning seven years , Vaughan and Double  ट्रबल consistently बेची आउट कॉन्सर्ट जबकि उनके एल्बम अक्सर  went gold .
He was born and raised  in डलास , टेक्सास , और लिये a छोटी काल  of time lived in Graham , Texas .
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan , Vaughan started playing the guitar at age  सात और formed अनेक bands कि occasionally performed in लोकल nightclubs  .
At age 17 ,  he dropped आउट of ऊँची स्कूल और स्थानांतरित to ऑस्टिन to further pursue उसके musical करियर  , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he  formed ट्रिपल threat revue , a बैंड कि आखिरकार विकसित into दोगुना ट्रबल  and regularly performed around Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the  montreux जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड , catching the ध्यान of  musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan  to खेल on उसके आगामी स्टुडियो एल्बम let 's नृत्य , जबकि browne offered  the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album .
In March 1983  , vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to एपिक रिकॉर्ड by दिग्गज रिकार्ड निर्माता जॉन हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू  album , Texas Flood in June of that year .
After  कामयाब touring , the समूह released the एल्बम , could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा  ( 1985 ) , the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had progressed successfully , Vaughan checked into a  पुनर्वास हॉस्पिटल in अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया to दे up a कोका और दारू आदत और लौटे to touring साथ the बैंड  .
In June 1989 , In Step was released and earned them a Grammy  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन समकालीन ब्लूज़ प्रदर्शन  .
On  अगस्त 27 , 1990 , vaughan थी मारे in a हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following  a performance in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic  yet तीव्र स्टाइल थी निकला इससे a किस्में of musical  genres .
He was  बहकावे by ब्लूज़ संगीतकारों सहित अल्बर्ट किंग , फ्रेडी किंग , ओटिस फटाफट ,  and Muddy Waters , and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar  playing reflected the क्लासिक ब्लूज़ और pentatonic  scales .
He has received wide  नाजुक मान्यता लिये उसके गिटार playing , रैंकिंग at # 6 on  Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues  हॉल of कीर्ति in 2000 और a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा थी erected in ऑस्टिन  's Auditorium Shores park .
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be  एक of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये इससे the राज्य  of Texas .
GigE  redirects यहाँ  .
For the  कैमरा प्रोटोकॉल , देखिए gige  vision .
In computer  नेटवर्किंग , gigabit ईथरनेट ( gbe or 1 gige ) is a पद describing विभिन्न technologies लिये transmitting ईथरनेट फ्रेम्स at a रेट of a gigabit प्रति  second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ) , as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard .
It came into use beginning in 1999 , gradually  supplanting तेज़ ईथरनेट in तार लोकल संजाल , जहाँ it performed considerably  faster .
The cables and equipment are very similar  to पिछला मानकों और यहूद बहुत आम और किफायती by  2010 .
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through hubs are allowed by the  specification , लकिन full-duplex उपयोग साथ switches is much अधिक आम  .
Intel PRO/1000 GT  पीसीआई संजाल इंटरफ़ेस कार्ड
The main  components of a stamp:
1 . चित्र
2 . perforations
3  . denomination
4 . देश  name
A postage  स्टैम्प is a छोटी टुकड़ा of पेपर कि is खरीदा और प्रदर्शित  on an item of mail as evidence of payment of postage .
Typically  , stamps हैं बना इससे खास पेपर , साथ a नेशनल नामांकन और denomination ( दाम ) on the  face , and a gum adhesive on the reverse side .
Postage stamps are  खरीदा इससे a डाक प्रशासन or अन्य प्राधिकृत विक्रेता और हैं प्रयुक्त to अदा लिये the लागत शामिल  in moving mail as well as other business necessities such as insurance and registration .
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a small  आयताकार of varying proportions , हालांकि त्रिकोण or अन्य आकार हैं occasionally  used .
The stamp is  affixed to an लिफाफा or अन्य डाक कवर ( i.e. , पैकेट , बक्सा , mailing बेलन  ) that the customer wishes to send .
The item is then processed by the postal  प्रणाली , जहाँ a postmark , sometimes ज्ञात as a रद्दीकरण चिह्नित , is प्रायः  applied over the stamp and cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used , which prevents its reuse .
The postmark indicates the  तिथि और पाइंट of उत्पत्ति of the mailing  .
The mailed item is then delivered to the  पता कि the ग्राहक रै लागू to the लिफाफा or  cover .
postage stamps have facilitated the डिलीवरी  of mail since the 1840s .
Before this time , ink and hand-stamps ( hence the  शब्द 'stamp ' ) , प्रायः बना इससे लकडी or कॉर्क , यहूद प्रायः प्रयुक्त to फ़्रैंक  the mail and confirm the payment of postage .
The first adhesive postage stamp ,  commonly referred to as the पैनी ब्लैक , थी जारी in the  United Kingdom in 1840 .
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system  in the संयुक्त किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड , जिससे in the जल्दी 19th सदी थी in अस्तव्यस्तता और rife साथ भ्रष्टाचार  .
There  हैं varying खाते of the आविष्कारक or  inventors of the stamp .
Before the introduction of postage stamps , mail  in the uk थी सशुल्क लिये by the प्राप्तकर्ता , a प्रणाली कि थी संबद्ध साथ an irresolvable प्रॉब्लम : the लागत of delivering मेल यहूद नहीं recoverable by the डाक  service when recipients were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items , and senders had no incentive to restrict the number , size , or weight of items sent , whether or not they would ultimately be paid for .
The postage stamp resolved this  समस्या in a सरल और सुरुचिपूर्ण manner , साथ the अतिरिक्त लाभ of रूम  for an element of beauty to be introduced .
Later related inventions  शामिल डाक स्टेशनरी ऐसे as prepaid-postage लिफाफे , पोस्ट ताश , lettercards , aerogrammes और wrappers , postage मीटर , और , अधिक recently , specialty बाक्स  and envelopes provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing .
The  postage स्टैम्प afforded convenience लिये दोनो the मेलर और डाक officials , अधिक efficiently बरामद लागत  for the postal service , and ultimately resulted in a better , faster postal system .
With the conveniences stamps offered , their use  resulted in greatly increased mailings दौरान the  19th and 20th centuries .
Postage stamps during this era were the most popular way  of paying लिये मेल , लकिन by the समाप्त of the 20th सदी यहूद rapidly होने आत  by the use of metered postage and bulk mailing by businesses . )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over the last decade of the 20th century and the first  दशक of the 21st due to घटती लागत of long अलहदा टेलीफोन संचार और the विकास और विस्फोटक स्प्रेड of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the अंतरजाल ) और  bill paying systems had .
As  postage stamps साथ उनके engraved imagery began to appear on a फैली  basis , historians and collectors began to take notice .
The study of  postage stamps और उनके उपयोग is referred to  as philately .
Stamp  collecting can be दोनो a शौक और a रूप of ऐतिहासिक पढ़ाई और सन्दर्भ , as government-issued  postage stamps and their mailing systems have always been involved with the history of nations .
The University  of अलबामा at बर्मिंघम ( uab ) is a पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों in बर्मिंघम  in the U.S. state of Alabama .
Developing from an  एक्सटेंशन बीच स्थापित in 1936 , the संस्था became an autonomous संस्था in 1969 और is आज  one of three institutions in the University of Alabama System .
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12  अकादमिक विभाजन अग्रणी to स्नातक 's , निपुण 's , डॉक्टरेट , और पेशेवर डिग्री in the सोशल और behavioral sciences  , the liberal arts , business , education , engineering , and health-related fields such as medicine , dentistry , optometry , nursing , and public health .
The  स्कूल is अत्यधिक प्रसिद्ध लिये इसके चिकित्सा शोध और प्राकृतिक  sciences programs .
The UAB Health  प्रणाली , एक of the largest अकादमिक चिकित्सा centers in the संयुक्त राज्य , is संबद्ध  with the university .
UAB Hospital sponsors residency  कार्यक्रम in विभिन्न चिकित्सा specialties , सहित आतंरिक आयुर्विज्ञान , न्यूरोलॉजी , सर्जरी  , radiology , and anesthesiology .
UAB Hospital is  the तभी acs सत्यापित स्तर i आघात बीच in अलबामा , as रेटेड by the अमरीकी  College of Surgeons Trauma Program .
UAB is the state 's  largest नियोक्ता , साथ अधिक than 18,000 संकाय और स्टाफ और over 53,000  jobs at the university and in the health system .
An estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the  birmingham-hoover महानगर क्षेत्रफल और 1 in 33 कार्य in the राज्य of अलबामा हैं सीधे  or indirectly related to UAB .
the विश्वविद्यालयों 's overall सालाना आर्थिक  impact was estimated to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010 .
In the fall of  2012 , the विश्वविद्यालयों of अलबामा at बर्मिंघम नामांकित 17,999 विद्यार्थी इससे अधिक  than 110 countries , including 1,605 freshmen .
There are  योजनाएँ to commence साथ an `` आक्रामक ''  growth in enrollment at UAB .
the वर्तमान uab अध्यक्ष is  Dr. Ray L. Watts .
Tofu , also  पुकारा सेम दही , is a खाना बना by coagulating सोया रस और तब  pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks .
It is a component in many  ईस्ट एशियाई और southeast एशियाई व्यंजन  .
There are many different varieties of tofu ,  सहित भैस टोफू और टोफू कि रै महरूम processed in  some way .
Tofu has a subtle flavor and can be  प्रयुक्त in savory और मीठी  dishes .
It is often  seasoned or marinated  to suit the dish .
Tofu  originated in प्राचीन चीन कुछ 2,000  years ago .
चाइनीज लेजेंड ascribes इसके आविष्कार to प्रिंस लियू an ( चाइनीज  : 劉安 Liú Ān , 179–122 BC ) .
Tofu and its production technique were  introduced into कोरियाई और तब जापानी दौरान  the Nara period .
It spread  into अन्य भाग of ईस्ट एशिया as खूब  .
This spread likely coincided with the  स्प्रेड of buddhism क्युकी it is an महत्वपूर्ण सोर्स of प्रोटीन in the शाकाहारी  diet of East Asian Buddhism .
Li Shizhen in the Ming Dynasty  वर्णित a विधि of बनाना टोफू in bencao gangmu  .
Tofu has  a कम कैलोरी गिनती , अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts  of protein , and little fat .
It is high in iron and depending on the  coagulant प्रयुक्त in निर्माण , may भी be ऊँची in कैल्सियम and/or मैग्नीशियम  .
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee ,  ज्ञात लिये होने the one-time पालतु of अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार माइकल जैक्सन , जो  bought the primate from a Texas research facility in the early 1980s .
The animal was a frequent travel companion to the singer , whose attachment  to the एनिमल led to मीडिया mockery और , among अन्य कारकों , to a पब्लिक  perception of Jackson as an eccentric .
During the Bad World Tour , for  उदाहरण , जैक्सन brought बुलबुले साथ उसे to जापानी , जहाँ वे दोनो पिया चाय  with the mayor of Osaka .
बुलबुले थी initially रखा at the जैक्सन परिवार 's घर in encino , लॉस  Angeles , but was moved to Neverland Ranch in 1988 .
There , he slept in a crib in Jackson 's  बेडरूम , प्रयुक्त the सिंगर 's प्रसाधन , और ate कैंडी in  the Neverland movie theater .
In 2003 the public learned  कि , जैसे सब खिलाते chimpanzees , बुलबुले था matured into a विशाल  and aggressive adult chimp unsuitable as a companion animal .
He was sent to  a कैलिफ़ोर्निया एनिमल प्रशिक्षक  , where he was reported to have attempted suicide .
When the trainer shut down his  आपरेशन in 2004 , बुलबुले थी स्थानांतरित to the बीच लिये ग्रेट apes , a अभयारण्य in  Wauchula , Florida , where he has lived since 2005 .
Muse  हैं an अंग्रेज़ी चट्टान बैंड इससे  Teignmouth , Devon , which formed in 1994 .
The band consists of school friends Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals , lead guitar , piano , keyboards , keytar ) ,  क्रिस्टोफर wolstenholme ( बास , vocals , keyboards , लय गिटार , हार्मोनिका ) और डोमिनिक हावर्ड ( ड्रम , percussion ,  synthesisers , sampling ) .
Since the release of  उनके 2006 एल्बम ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे , keyboardist और percussionist मॉर्गन nicholls रै  performed live with the band .
Muse are known for their energetic and extravagant  सजीव प्रदर्शन और उनके संलयन of अनेक म्यूज़िक जाति , सहित स्पेस चट्टान , प्रगतिशील चट्टान , वैकल्पिक चट्टान , भारी मेटल  , classical music and electronica .
Muse have released six studio albums :  showbiz ( 1999 ) , उत्पत्ति of सममिति ( 2001 ) , absolution ( 2003 ) , ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे  ( 2006 ) , The Resistance ( 2009 ) and The 2nd Law ( 2012 ) .
They have  भी जारी तीन सजीव एल्बम , hullabaloo साउंडट्रैक ( 2002 ) , जिससे is भी a संकलन of b-sides , absolution दौरे ( 2005 ) , और haarp ( 2008 ) , जिससे दस्तावेज़ the  band 's performances at Wembley Stadium in 2007 .
Black Holes and Revelations earned the band a Mercury Prize  नामांकन और a तीसरा प्लेस समाप्त in the nme एल्बम of the साल सूची लिये 2006 .
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history , including five MTV Europe Music Awards  , छह q पुरस्कार , आठ nme पुरस्कार , दो ब्रिट पुरस्कार —winning `` बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों सजीव अधिनियम '' twice , an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार  , four Kerrang !
पुरस्कार और an अमरीकी  Music Award .
They  यहूद भी मनोनीत लिये पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , of जिससे वे जीती बेहतरीन चट्टान एल्बम , लिये उनके पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम  The Resistance ( 2009 ) .
Muse  have बेची over 15 लाख  albums worldwide .
Bloemfontein ( , ;  डच लिये `` फव्वारा of पुष्प '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the फ़्री राज्य प्रांत of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी ; और , as the न्यायिक पूंजी of the स्वदेश , एक of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's तीन नेशनल राजधानी – the अन्य  two being Cape Town , the legislative capital , and Pretoria , the administrative capital .
Bloemfontein is popularly and poetically known as `` the city  of गुलाब `` , owing to the प्रचुरता of ये पुष्प और the सालाना रोज़ पर्व आयोजित वहीँ  .
The city 's Sesotho name is Mangaung , meaning `` place of cheetahs ``  और it रै महरूम शामिल in the mangaung लोकल नगरपालिका चूंकि 2000  .
Bloemfontein is situated  on शुष्क घासभूमि at , at an ऊँचाई  of above sea level .
The  नगर is घर to 369,568 निवासियों , जबकि the mangaung  Local Municipality has a population of 645,455 .
Where  do we आइये इससे  ?
कया हैं  We ?
जहाँ हैं we going  ?
One  of post-impressionist पॉल gauguin  's most famous paintings .
The  अर्थ of जीवन is a philosophical सवाल concerning  the significance of life or existence in general .
It can also be expressed in different forms , such as  `` क्यों हैं we यहाँ ? `` , `` कया is जीवन सब परिचय ? `` , और `` कया is the purpose of अस्तित्व  ? ''
It has been the subject of  much philosophical , वैज्ञानिक , और theological अटकलें throughout  history .
There  have महरूम a विशाल क्रमांक of प्रस्तावित जवाब to ये सवाल इससे  many different cultural and ideological backgrounds .
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and  धार्मिक conceptions of अस्तित्व , सोशल ties , चेतना , और सुख , और सीमायें on अनेक अन्य मुद्दे , ऐसे as सांकेतिक अर्थ , सत्तामीमांसा , मान , purpose , आचार , शुभ और दुष्ट , फ़्री होगा , the अस्तित्व of एक or अनेक देवताओं  , conceptions of God , the soul , and the afterlife .
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical  तथ्य परिचय the ब्रह्मांड , exploring the कॉन्टेक्स्ट और पैरामीटर्स concerning the 'how ' of जीवन  .
Science also studies and can provide  सुझाव लिये the pursuit of well-being और a सम्बन्धित धारणा of नैतिकता .
An  वैकल्पिक , humanistic दृष्टिकोण मुद्राएँ the सवाल `` कया is the अर्थ of  my life ? ''
The value  of the सवाल pertaining to the purpose of जीवन may coincide साथ the उपलब्धि of परम वास्तविकता  , or a feeling of oneness , or even a feeling of sacredness .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also  provides the आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin , stewie griffin , ब्रायन griffin , और ग्लेन  Quagmire .
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features  पाँच प्रमुख आवाज़ अभिनेताओं , और numerous नियमित डाल और पुनरावर्ती अतिथि  stars .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex Borstein , Seth Green , Mila Kunis ( who replaced  लेसी chabert बाद the पहला ऋतु ) और माइक हेनरी और अभी , the नई कर्ता beau ओसबोर्न  .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam  वेस्ट , जॉन G. ब्रेनन , निकोल सुलीवान और जेनिफर tilly , और repeat अतिथि सितारों शामिल  Phyllis Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast members provide  आवाज़ें लिये अनेक वर्ण  .
The voice actors , in  portraying the विभिन्न अक्षर personalities on  the show , draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture .
Family Guy characters have been played by more  than एक कर्ता , बाद सदस्यों of the दिखाएँ बाएँ the श्रेणी or था conflicting दायित्वों  .
Kunis was  मनोनीत लिये an एनी पुरस्कार लिये voicing मेग griffin in the ऋतु 5 एपीसोड `` मुश्किल विधिक `` और macfarlane रै भी जीती an एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया voice-over प्रदर्शन और an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an  Animated Television Production , though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series .
1911  उदाहरण by एडमंड  Dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` The Princess on the Pea '' ) is a literary fairy  टेल by hans ईसाई andersen परिचय a यंग स्त्री जिनकी royal पहचान is स्थापित by a परीक्षण of उसके शारीरिक संवेदनशीलता  .
The tale was first published with three others by  andersen in an inexpensive पुस्तिका on 8 may 1835 in कोपेनहेगन  by C.A . Reitzel .
Andersen had heard the story as a child , and it  संभावित रै इसके सोर्स in लोक सामग्री , संभवतः originating  from Sweden as it is unknown in the Danish oral tradition .
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of  1835 यहूद खूब प्राप्त by डैनिश आलोचकों , जो disliked उनके कैज़ुअल , chatty स्टाइल , और उनके  lack of morals .
In 1959 `` The Princess and  the मटर '' थी adapted to the musical स्टेज in a उत्पादन पुकारा एकबार upon  a Mattress starring Carol Burnett .
German Americans ( ) are  नागरिकों of the संयुक्त राज्य जो यहूद either born in जर्मनी or हैं of जर्मनी  ancestry .
They comprise  परिचय 50 लाख लोगों , बनाना उन्हें the largest ancestry समूह ahead  of Irish Americans , African Americans and English Americans .
They comprise about 1/3 of the  जर्मनी diaspora सब over the संसार  .
None of the  जर्मनी राज्य था नई संसार  colonies .
नहीं जबतक the 1670s किया the पहला significant समूह of जर्मनी आप्रवासियों  arrive in the British colonies , settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania .
Immigration continued in very large numbers during the 19th  सदी , साथ कुछ आठ लाख आमद इससे जर्मनी .
They were pulled by the attractions  of जमीन और धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता , और धकेल आउट of यूरोपीय by shortages of जमीन  and religious or political oppression .
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom , others for economic  अवसर वृहद than those in यूरोपीय , और अन्य बस लिये the मौका to प्रारंभ भैस in the  New World .
The arrivals before 1850  यहूद ज़्यादातर किसानो जो sought आउट the सबसे उत्पादक जमीन , जहाँ उनके intensive  farming techniques would pay off .
बाद 1840 , अनेक आए to शहरों , जहाँ `` germania '' —german-speaking  districts—soon emerged .
German  अमेरिकी स्थापित the पहला kindergartens in the संयुक्त राज्य , introduced the क्रिसमस पेड़ परंपरा  , and originated popular American foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers .
German American celebrations  हैं आयोजित throughout the देश , एक of the सबसे well-known होने the german-american steuben परेड in नई यॉर्क नगर , आयोजित प्रत्येक तीसरा  Saturday in September .
There are also  प्रमुख सालाना कार्यक्रम in शिकागो , सिनसिनाटी , मिल्वौकी  , Pittsburgh , St. Louis and other cities .
Like many other immigrants that came to the United States , an overwhelming  क्रमांक of लोगों of जर्मनी or आंशिक जर्मनी descent have essentially become americanized  .
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief  परिचयात्मक बयान of the संविधान 's आधारभूत उद्देश्य और guiding  principles .
It states in general terms , and  न्यायालयों have referred to it as विश्वसनीय प्रमाण of , the founding fathers ' इरादों regarding the संविधान 's अर्थ और कया वे hoped the संविधान  would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United  राज्य और it सेट into गति a सवाल as it pertains to कि विशाल जनसांख्यिकी concerning the व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों और समता among सब लोगों ; इस can be देखी सबसे broadly in the divide between republicanism और सोशल लोकतंत्र  .
The history  of the अंतरजाल began साथ the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर  in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to  the अवधारणाओं कि होता सीसे to the अंतरजाल जब a संदेश थी भेजा over the arpanet इससे कंप्यूटर विज्ञान प्राध्यापक लियोनार्ड kleinrock 's प्रयोगशाला  at University of California , Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I  at npl in the uk , cyclades , मेरिट संजाल , tymnet , और telenet , यहूद विकसित in  the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular  led to the विकास of प्रोटोकॉल लिये internetworking , in जिससे अनेक पृथक संजाल could  be joined together into a network of networks .
In 1982 , the Internet protocol suite (  tcp/ip ) थी मानकीकृत , और नतीजतन , the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल  of interconnected TCP/IP networks , called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science  संजाल ( csnet ) और again in 1986 जब nsfnet provided अभिगम to महासंगणक साइट in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे शोध और शिक्षा  organizations .
Commercial Internet  सेवा प्रदाताओं ( isps ) began to emerge in the लेट 1980s और  early 1990s .
The  arpanet थी decommissioned in 1990  .
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when  nsfnet थी decommissioned , निकालना the पिछला प्रतिबंध on the उपयोग of the अंतरजाल to  carry commercial traffic .
Since the  mid-1990s , the अंतरजाल रै था a क्रांतिकारी प्रभाव on संस्कृति और कॉमर्स , सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल , तत्काल messaging , आवाज़ over  Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '' , two-way interactive video calls , and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums , blogs , social networking , and online shopping sites .
The research and education  जातियाँ continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल ऐसे as nsf 's बहुत ऊँची गति  Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and  उच्चतर speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल ऑपरेटिंग at 1-gbit/s  , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global  संचार लैंडस्केप थी लगभग तत्काल in ऐतिहासिक शर्तें : it तभी communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way  telecommunications networks in the year 1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007 .
Today the Internet continues to grow , driven by ever greater  amounts of ऑनलाइन सूचना , कॉमर्स , entertainment , और सोशल नेटवर्किंग  .
Southwest Airlines Co.  ( ) is a प्रमुख u.S. एयरलाइन और the संसार 's largest low-cost  carrier , headquartered in Dallas , Texas .
It was established  in 1967 और अपनाया इसके वर्तमान नाम  in 1971 .
The airline has more than 46,000  कर्मचारी और operates अधिक than 3,400 फ़्लाइट  per day .
As of June 5 , 2011 , it carries  the सबसे घरेलू यात्री of कोई u.S. एयरलाइन  .
As of April 2013 ,  दक्षिणपश्चिम एयरलाइंस रै अनुसूचित सेवा to 84 गंतव्यों in 41 राज्य  and Puerto Rico .
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s  , मगर लिये a few सालो in the 1970s और 1980s , जब it संचालित बोइंग  727s .
As of August 2012  , दक्षिणपश्चिम is the largest ऑपरेटर of the 737 विश्वव्यापी साथ over 550 in  service , each operating an average of six flights per day .
In May 2011 , the airline acquired AirTran  एयरवेज़ , साथ संयोजन of the वाहक अपेक्षित to be पूरा by  2014 .
On March 1 , 2012 , the company  थी जारी a सिंगल ऑपरेटिंग प्रमाणपत्र , technically बनने  one airline .
Rolling  चट्टान is a 4.6 % abv पाले lager शुभारम्भ in 1939 by  the Latrobe Brewing Company .
Although founded as a local  बियर in पश्चिमी पेन्सिलवेनिया , it थी marketed aggressively और आखिरकार became a नेशनल उत्पाद  .
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis ,  मिसौरी , in मिड 2006 , जिससे transferred brewing परिचालन to नई  Jersey .
Benedict XVI ( , , ; born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger on  16 अप्रैल 1927 ) is पोप emeritus of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर  .
He  परोसा as पोप इससे 2005 to  2013 .
In that position , he was both the  नेता of the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और sovereign of the वेटिकन  City State .
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005  in a papal conclave , मनाये उसके papal उद्घाटन द्रव्यमान on 24 अप्रैल 2005 , और took कब्ज़ा  of his cathedral , the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran , on 7 May 2005 .
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in  उसके देशी बायर्न , ratzinger स्थापित खुद as a अत्यधिक regarded विश्वविद्यालयों  theologian by the late 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958 .
After a long career as an academic , serving as a professor of theology at several German universities—the last being the University of Regensburg , where he served as Vice President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he  थी नियुक्त archbishop of म्यूनिख और freising और कार्डिनल by पोप पॉल vi in 1977 , an असामान्य प्रमोशन लिये किसी साथ छोटी लुभावने अनुभव  .
In 1981 , he settled in Rome  जब he became prefect of the सभा लिये the doctrine of the आस्था , एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण  dicasteries of the Roman Curia .
From 2002  जबतक उसके चुनाव as पोप , he थी भी डीन of the कॉलेज  of Cardinals , and as such , the primus inter pares among the cardinals .
Prior to becoming pope , he  थी `` a प्रमुख फिगर on the वेटिकन स्टेज लिये a क्वार्टर of a सदी '' as `` एक of the सबसे आदरणीय , influential और विवादास्पद सदस्यों of the कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स ''  ; he had an influence `` second to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants .
He was  originally a उदार theologian , लकिन अपनाया रूढ़िवादी  views after 1968 .
His prolific  कृतियाँ बचाव परंपरागत कैथोलिक  doctrine and values .
During his papacy , Benedict  xvi advocated a वापसी to आधारभूत ईसाई मान to काउंटर the increased secularisation of  many Western countries .
He views relativism 's denial of objective truth , and the denial of moral  सच्चाई in particular , as the सेंट्रल प्रॉब्लम of the 21st सदी  .
He  सिखाया the महत्व of दोनो the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर  and an understanding of God 's redemptive love .
Pope Benedict also  revived a क्रमांक of परंपराओं सहित elevating the tridentine द्रव्यमान  to a more prominent position .
He renewed  the संबंध between the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और आर्ट , देखने the उपयोग of सौंदर्य as a पाथ to the पवित्र ,  promoted the use of Latin , and reintroduced traditional papal garments , for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics '' .
He has been described as `` the main intellectual force  in the गिरिजाघर '' चूंकि the mid-1980s  .
Several of Pope  बेनेडिक्ट 's विद्यार्थी इससे उसके अकादमिक करियर हैं भी prominent churchmen  today and confidantes of him , notably Christoph Schönborn .
On 11 February 2013 , Pope  बेनेडिक्ट घोषित उसके इस्तीफा in a वाक in लैटिन पहले the कार्डिनल्स , citing a `` कमी of शक्ति of दिमाग और देह  '' due to his advanced age .
His resignation  became प्रभावी on 28 फ़रवरी 2013 .
He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415 , and  the पहला to do so on उसके अपना पहल चूंकि पोप celestine v in 1294  .
As  पोप emeritus , बेनेडिक्ट retains the स्टाइल of उसके पवित्रता , और the शीर्षक of पोप , और होगा continue  to dress in the papal colour of white .
He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013 , and he moved into the  newly संवर मेटर ecclesiae मठ लिये उसके रिटायरमेंट on 2  May 2013..
जेब stereoscope साथ  original test image .
Used by military to  जाँचें stereoscopic pairs of aerial  photographs .
View of Boston , c. 1860 ; an early stereoscopic card  लिये देखने a झाँकी इससे प्रकृति
Kaiser-Panorama  consisted of a multi-station देखने apparatus और सेट  of stereo slides .
patented by A. fuhrmann  around 1890 .
कम्पनी of महिलाओं watching stereoscopic छायाचित्र ,  painting by Jacob Spoel , before 1868 .
A very early  चित्रण of लोगों using a stereoscope  .
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique for  बनाना or बढ़ाना the भ्रम of गहराई in an चित्र by अर्थात् of stereopsis  for binocular vision .
The word stereoscopy derives from the Greek `` στερεός  '' ( stereos ) , `` कड़ , ठोस '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ) , `` to dekh '' , `` to देखिए  '' .
Most stereoscopic methods present  दो ऑफसेट बिंब separately to the बाएँ और सही नजर of the  viewer .
These two-dimensional  बिंब हैं तब संयुक्त in the दिमाग to दे the बोध  of 3D depth .
This technique is distinguished from 3D displays that display an  चित्र in तीन पूरा आयाम , allowing the निरीक्षक to बढ़ाएँ सूचना परिचय the 3-dimensional वस्तुएँ  being displayed by head and eye movements .
John Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S . October 19 , 1735 ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was the  दूसरी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1797–1801 ) , having पहले परोसा as the पहला वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य  .
An American Founding Father , he was  a statesman , राजनयिक , और a अग्रणी एडवोकेट of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता  from Great Britain .
Well educated , he was an  आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically परिचय उसके  often seminal ideas , both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
एडम्स आए to prominence in the जल्दी चरण  of the American Revolution .
A lawyer and  पब्लिक फिगर in बोस्टन , as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स to the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस , he निभाई a अग्रणी  role in persuading Congress to declare independence .
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in  drafting the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in 1776 , और थी इसके प्राथमिक एडवोकेट in  the Congress .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe , he helped  negotiate the eventual सलाम सन्धि साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , और थी जिम्मेदार  for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist and historian , Adams largely wrote the  मैसाचुसेट्स संविधान in 1780 , जिससे साथ साथ उसके पहले विचार on सरकारी , बहकावे अमरीकी  political thought .
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775 , he nominated George Washington  to be commander-in-chief , और 25 सालो बाद मनोनीत जॉन मार्शल to be मुख्य इंसाफ of the  United States .
Adams ' revolutionary  श्रेय secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन 's वाइस अध्यक्ष और उसके अपना चुनाव  in 1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he encountered ferocious attacks by the  jeffersonian republicans , as खूब as the प्रबल गुट in उसके अपना federalist पार्टी led by उसके कड़वा  enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams  हस्ताक्षरित the विवादास्पद एलियन और राजद्रोह अधिनियमों , और निर्मित up the फौज और नेवी विशेषकर in the फेस of  an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major  accomplishment of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी थी उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन of the विरोध  in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In  1800 , एडम्स थी पराजित लिये re-election by थामस जेफरसन  and retired to Massachusetts .
He  बाद resumed उसके दोस्ती  with Jefferson .
He  और उसके बीवी , अबीगैल एडम्स , संस्थापित an संपन्नता परिवार लकीर of राजनेता , राजनयिकों , और  historians now referred to as the Adams political family .
एडम्स थी the पिता of जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स , the छठे  President of the United States .
His achievements have received greater  मान्यता in आधुनिक टाइम्स , हालांकि उसके योगदान यहूद  not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders .
एडम्स थी the पहला u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside  in the building that eventually became known as the White House .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $  10 ) is a denomination of संयुक्त  States currency .
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ) , Alexander Hamilton , is currently  प्रदर्शित on the obverse of the विधेयक , जबकि the u.S. राजकोष भवन is प्रदर्शित on the रिवर्स  .
( Hamilton is one  of दो non-presidents प्रदर्शित on फिलहाल जारी  U.S. bills .
The  अन्य is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन , on the $ 100  bill .
Hamilton is one of only four people featured  on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to the उपस्थित ) जो थी नहीं born in the महाद्वीपीय संयुक्त  States , as he was from the West Indies .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George  meade , स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस , इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000 1862/63 विधिक टेंडर ; $ 10 1878/80  Silver Certificate ) .
In addition ,  kamehameha i , appears on the  2008 Hawaii state quarter . )
सब $ 10 बिल्स जारी आज हैं  Federal Reserve Notes .
The  ब्यूरो of नक्काशी और मुद्रण says the औसत जीवन of a  $ 10 bill in circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
Approximately 6 % of all US  banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 यहूद  $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar bills are delivered by  संघीय आरक्षित बैंको in पीला straps  .
The source of the face on  the $ 10 विधेयक is जॉन trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट of हैमिल्टन कि belongs to the पोर्ट्रेट संग्रहण  of New York City Hall .
The $ 10 bill  is the तभी u.S. पेपर करेंसी in परिसंचरण in जिससे the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the बाएँ ( the $ 100,000 विधेयक प्रदर्शित  a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left , but was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
A rider on a  यामाहा waverunner xl performing a high-speed  turn .
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a  जेट of जल ejected इससे the वापस of the शिल्प  .
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or behind the boat ,  a jetboat draws the जल इससे अंतर्गत the नाव into a पंप अंदर the नाव , तब expels it through a nozzle at the stern  .
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed  a waterjet in 1954 ) लिये आपरेशन in the fast-flowing और उथले नदियाँ of नई जीलैंड , specifically to overcome the प्रॉब्लम of  propellers striking rocks in such waters .
Previous attempts at waterjet propulsion had very short  lifetimes , generally due to the अकुशल डिज़ाइन of the इकाई और the फैक्ट कि वे offered few लाभ  over conventional propellers .
Unlike  ये पिछला waterjet developments , ऐसे as campini 's और the hanley hydrojet , हैमिल्टन था a विशिष्ट need लिये a नोदन प्रणाली to operate  in very-shallow water , and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution .
From this ,  the लोकप्रियता of the जेट ईकाई और  jetboat increased rapidly .
Through further developments , it was found the waterjet offered  अनेक अन्य लाभ over propellers लिये a चौड़ी दायरा of पोत प्रकार , और as ऐसे , waterjets हैं प्रयुक्त widely आज लिये अनेक high-speed बरतन , सहित यात्री ferries  , rescue craft , patrol boats and offshore supply vessels .
Jetboats are highly maneuverable , and many can , from  पूरा गति , be reversed और brought to a रोकें भीतर छोटी अधिक than उनके अपना लंबाई , in  a maneuver known as a `` crash stop '' .
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed  maneuvre जहाँ the नाव 's इंजन throttle is काटें , the परिचालन is turned sharply और the throttle खोली again , causing the नाव to स्पिन जल्दी around साथ  a large spray of water .
There  is no अभियान्त्रिकी सीमा to the आकार of jetboats , हालांकि  the validity of their use depends a lot on the type of application .
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and economical at low speeds , up to about , but as boat speed increases beyond this , the  अतिरिक्त हल प्रतिरोध उत्पन्न by struts , rudders , shafts ( इत्यादि . ) अर्थात् waterjets हैं अधिक कुशल in the 20-50 गांठ  range ( up to ) .
भी , in परिस्थितियों साथ बहुत विशाल propellers turning at slow speeds ( ऐसे as  tug boats ) , the equivalent size waterjet would be too big to be practical .
For these  कारण , the विशाल बहुमत of waterjet इकाई हैं संस्थापित in high-speed बरतन और in particular परिस्थितियों  where shallow draught , maneuverability , and load flexibility are main concerns .
The  biggest jet-driven बरतन हैं मिला in सैन्य उपयोग or the  high-speed passenger/car ferry industry .
South Africa 's s (  लगभग long ) हैं the biggest jet-propelled  vessels so far .
Even these  german-built बरतन हैं सक्षम of performing ``  crash stops '' .
Uveitis  is broadly पारिभाषित as सूजन  of the uvea .
The  uvea consists of the मध्य , pigmented , vascular structures of the नजर और शामिल  the iris , ciliary body , and choroid .
Uveitis requires  an तात्कालिक referral और thorough परिक्षा by an ophthalmologist or optometrist  along with urgent treatment to control the inflammation .
eric `` e  . ''
Murphy  is a fictional अक्षर on the comedy-drama टेलीविज़न  series Entourage .
He is  निभाई by केविन connolly  .
The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror film produced and  निर्देशित by स्टेनली kubrick , co-written साथ उपन्यासकार डायने जॉनसन , और अभिनीत जोकर निकोल्सन , शेली  Duvall , Scatman Crothers , and Danny Lloyd .
The film is based  on the स्टीफन किंग अनोखा the  Shining .
A writer , Jack Torrance , takes a job as an  off-season कार्यवाहक at an पृथक  hotel .
His young son possesses psychic abilities and is able to see  बाते इससे the पास्ट और भविष्य , ऐसे as the भूत जो inhabit  the hotel .
Soon after settling in , the  परिवार is फंस in the होटल by a snowstorm , और जोकर धीरे becomes बहकावे by a अलौकिक उपस्थिति ; he उतरता into  madness and attempts to murder his wife and son .
Unlike previous Kubrick films , which developed an audience  धीरे by भवन on word-of-mouth , the जगमगाता थी released as a mass-market फिल्मी , खोलने at पहला in बस दो शहरों on मेमोरियल दिन , तब देशभर  a month later .
Although initial response to the film was mixed , later critical assessment  थी अधिक अनुकूल और it is अभी viewed  as a classic of the horror genre .
Film director Martin Scorsese ,  लिखने in the रोज़ जानवर , क्रमित it as एक of the 11 scariest हॉरर फिल्मों  of all time .
Film critics , film students , and Kubrick  's निर्माता , जन harlan , have remarked on the विशाल influence the फिल्मी रै था on लोकप्रिय  culture .
The initial European  रिलीज of the जगमगाता थी 25 मिनट्स shorter than the अमरीकी संस्करण , हासिल by निकालना  most of the scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel .
Patio  कोला बोतल
आँगन आहार कोला थी a ब्रांड of आहार सोडा  introduced by Pepsi in 1963 .
It was created in  जवाब to आहार रीति कोला , जिससे थी the पहला  diet cola on the market .
Fitness promoter  डिब्बी ड्रेक थी आँगन आहार कोला 's प्रवक्ता  .
In 1964 , Patio released  नारंगी , अंगूर , और रूट बियर जायका  .
This flavor line was not  meant to compete साथ ब्रांड्स जैसे नारंगी crush , लकिन बल्कि भरण  out the line .
Patio sodas  यहूद उपलब्धियाँ in the cold-bottle  market : grocery and mom-and-pop stores .
Advertising for Patio was  comparatively scarce ; at the समय , bottlers यहूद regionally franchised , और सम्बन्धित विज्ञापन  was necessarily local .
In  1964 , आँगन आहार कोला  became Diet Pepsi .
The newly branded  आहार सोडा थी advertised alongside पेप्सी साथ the टैगलाइन `` पेप्सी either रास्ता  '' , which replaced the slogan `` Dances with flavor '' .
The  छोटी जीवन स्पैन of आँगन आहार कोला makes  it a great addition for bottle collectors .
Most of the remaining  आँगन लकीर of जायका यहूद phased आउट by the जल्दी 1970s , जबकि a few बच  until the mid 70s
अवसंरचना is मौलिक शारीरिक और organizational structures needed लिये the आपरेशन of a समाज  or enterprise , or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function .
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected structural  तत्व कि provide फ्रेमवर्क supporting an संपूर्ण ढांचा of विकास  .
It is an important term for  judging a देश or प्रदेश 's विकास  .
The term typically refers to the technical  structures कि support a समाज , ऐसे as सड़कें , पुलों , जल सप्लाई , sewers , विद्युत ग्रिड , दूरसंचार , और so forth , और can be पारिभाषित as `` the शारीरिक components of interrelated प्रणालियों providing commodities और सेवाएं अनिवार्य to  enable , sustain , or enhance societal living conditions . ''
Viewed functionally , infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and  सेवाएं , और भी the वितरण of समाप्त उत्पाद to बाज़ार , as खूब as मौलिक सोशल सेवाएं ऐसे as स्कूलों  and hospitals ; for example , roads enable the transport of raw materials to a factory .
In military parlance ,  the पद refers to the इमारतें और स्थाई संस्थापना  necessary for the support , redeployment , and operation of military forces .
To make it simple ,  अवसंरचना is anything कि is needed रोज  , an everyday item .
A  आलेखीय प्रतिनिधित्व of  the ideal human karyotype
mitochondrial  DNA .
Human genetic variation  is the जेनेटिक मतभेद दोनो भीतर और among  populations .
There may be  अनेक विसंगतियाँ of कोई दिए जीन in the इंसान जनसांख्यिकी  ( genes ) , leading to polymorphism .
Many genes are not polymorphic , meaning  कि तभी a सिंगल allele is उपस्थित in the जनसांख्यिकी : the जीन  is then said to be fixed .
No two  इंसानो हैं genetically  identical .
Even monozygotic twins , who develop from one zygote , have infrequent  जेनेटिक मतभेद due to mutations occurring दौरान विकास और जीन नक़ल क्रमांक विभिन्नता  .
मतभेद between individuals , भी closely सम्बन्धित individuals , हैं the कुंजी  to techniques such as genetic fingerprinting .
Alleles occur at different  बारंबारता in अलग इंसान populations , साथ populations कि हैं अधिक geographically और ancestrally रिमोट tending  to differ more .
कल्याणकारी of मतभेद between individuals शामिल the एक्सचेंज of जीनों दौरान  meiosis and various mutational events .
वहीँ हैं at तनिक दो कारण क्यों जेनेटिक विभिन्नता  exists between populations .
Natural selection may confer an  अनुकूली लाभ to individuals in a विशिष्ट पर्यावरण  if an allele provides a competitive advantage .
alleles अंतर्गत चयन हैं संभावित to occur तभी in those भौगोलिक  regions where they confer an advantage .
The second  प्रमुख कारण of जेनेटिक विभिन्नता is due to the ऊँची  degree of neutrality of most mutations .
Most mutations do not appear to  have कोई चयनात्मक प्रभाव एक रास्ता or the अन्य on the सजीव  .
The main cause is genetic drift , this  is the प्रभाव of यादृच्छिक परिवर्तन in the जीन  pool .
In humans , founder  प्रभाव और पास्ट छोटी जनसांख्यिकी आकार ( increasing the likelihood  of genetic drift ) may have had an important influence in neutral differences between populations .
The theory that humans  recently migrated आउट of अफ़्रीकी supports  this .
The study of human  जेनेटिक विभिन्नता रै दोनो विकासवादी significance  and medical applications .
it can सहायता वैज्ञानिकों समझे प्राचीन इंसान जनसांख्यिकी migrations as खूब as कैसा  different human groups are biologically related to one another .
For  आयुर्विज्ञान , पढ़ाई of इंसान जेनेटिक विभिन्नता may be महत्वपूर्ण क्युकी  some disease-causing alleles occur more often in people from specific geographic regions .
New  निष्कर्षों दिखाएँ कि प्रत्येक इंसान रै on औसत  60 new mutations compared to their parents .
Apart from  mutations , अनेक जीनों कि may have aided इंसानो in प्राचीन  times plague humans today .
For example , it is suspected that  जीनों कि allow इंसानो to अधिक efficiently प्रक्रम खाना हैं those कि मेक लोगों susceptible to मोटापा  and diabetes today .
Tea  पार्टी प्रदर्शनकारियों on the वेस्ट लॉन of the u.S. कैपिटल और the नेशनल मॉल at the करदाताओं कूच  on Washington on September 12 , 2009 .
The Tea  पार्टी गति is an अमरीकी राजनैतिक गति कि अधिवक्ताओं सख्त adherence to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , reducing u.S. सरकारी  spending and taxes , and reduction of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit .
The movement has been called partly conservative ,  partly libertarian , और partly populist  .
The  गति रै प्रायोजित विरोध और समर्थित राजनैतिक उम्मीदवार  since 2009 .
The name of the movement is  निकला इससे the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी of 1773 , an iconic  event in American history .
Anti-tax protesters in the  संयुक्त राज्य have प्रायः referred to the असली बोस्टन चाय पार्टी  for inspiration .
References to the Boston Tea  पार्टी यहूद भाग of कर दिन विरोध आयोजित  throughout the 1990s and earlier .
By 2001 , a custom had developed among  कुछ रूढ़िवादी कार्यकर्ताओं of mailing चाय बैग to विधायक और अन्य officials as a सांकेतिक अधिनियम  .
The currencies  of प्यूर्टो रीको closely follow the ऐतिहासिक विकास of प्यूर्टो  Rico .
As a  उपनिवेश of स्पेन और the संयुक्त राज्य , प्यूर्टो  Rico was granted the use of both foreign and provincial currencies .
Following the Spanish  colonization in 1502 , प्यूर्टो रीको became an महत्वपूर्ण बंदरगाहों , साथ इसके अपना सप्लाई  of gold .
however , as the खनिज reserves भागा खाली भीतर  the century , the archipelago 's economy suffered .
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado Mexicano , which meant that a semi-regular shipment  of सुनहरा इससे the viceroyalty of नई स्पेन होता be भेजा to the द्वीप , as a रास्ता  to provide economic support .
Between 1636 and 1637 , Philip IV  of स्पेन imposed a कर जिससे था to be सशुल्क using a आय  stamp .
Inspired by this , Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766 , becoming the first colony to print  8- रियल banknotes in the स्पेनी साम्राज्य और जिससे in the स्पेनी सरकारी 's स्वीकृति of subsequent  issues .
The situado was discontinued  दौरान the 19th सदी , बनाना an आर्थिक संकट , as a परिणाम  of Mexico gaining its independence from Spain .
Salvador Meléndez Bruna ,  the औपनिवेशिक राज्यपाल in दफ्तर , ordered the समस्या of प्रांतीय banknotes , बनाना  the Puerto Rican peso .
However , printing of  ये banknotes ceased बाद 1815  .
During the following  दशकों , विदेशी सिक्के became  the widespread currency .
In  the 1860s और 1870s , banknotes  reemerged .
On February 1 , 1890  , the banco español de प्यूर्टो रीको थी उदघाटन और  began issuing banknotes .
The bank designed four  श्रेणी और लगाई तीन in परिसंचरण अंतर्गत स्पेनी  rule .
In 1895  , a royal डिक्री ordered the उत्पादन  of provincial peso coins .
On August 13 , 1898 , the Spanish-American  युद्ध ended साथ स्पेन ceding प्यूर्टो रीको to the संयुक्त राज्य  .
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto Rico  और जारी बिल्स समतुल्य to the संयुक्त राज्य डालर , बनाना the  Puerto Rican dollar .
In  1902 , the पहला नेशनल बैंको of पोर्टो रीको जारी banknotes in a  parallel manner .
दो अधिक श्रेणी यहूद जारी जबतक  1913 .
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully integrated into the United States '  आर्थिक और मौद्रिक प्रणाली , the प्यूर्टो rican डॉलर यहूद redeemed लिये those जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य राजकोष  .
The peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary  मुद्दे , सहित commemorative banknotes , निजी करेंसी , और a क्वार्टर सिक्का designed साथ  Fort San Felipe del Morro in the face .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as  पेप्सी , formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय कि  is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo .
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as  ब्रैड 's पेय , it थी renamed as pepsi-cola on अगस्त 28 , 1898 , तब to पेप्सी in 1961 .
The Book of Ezekiel is the third  of the latter नबियों in the यहूदी बाइबल , following the किताबे  of Isaiah and Jeremiah and preceding the Book of the Twelve .
(  the अनुक्रम is somewhat अलग in the ईसाई  Old Testament ) .
It derives its  नाम इससे , और रिकॉर्ड the  visions of , the 6th century BC priest and prophet Ezekiel .
According to the book , the prophet , exiled in Babylon , experienced a series of  सात visions दौरान the 22 सालो इससे 593 to 571 bc , a काल जिससे spans the फाइनल विनाश of जेरूसलम  in 586 .
The  visions , और the किताब , हैं संरचित around तीन विषयवस्तु : ( 1 ) निर्णय on इसराईल ( अध्याय 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) निर्णय on the राष्ट्र  ( chapters 25-32 ) ; and future blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ) .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a major  संयुक्त राज्य बंदरगाहों और the largest नगर और महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the राज्य  of Louisiana .
The  जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर थी 343,829  as of the 2010 U.S. Census .
The New  ऑरलियन्स महानगर क्षेत्रफल ( नई orleans–metairie–kenner महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States .
The New  orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , a larger व्यापार  area , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans  , a नगर स्तिथ on the loire नदी in केन्द्र , फ़्रांस , और is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके पृथक फ्रेंच क्रियोल वास्तुकला , as  well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage .
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine , music ( particularly as  the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ) , और इसके सालाना जश्न और त्यौहार , सबसे notably  Mardi Gras .
The city is often  referred to as the `` सबसे अद्वितीय '' in अमेरिका  .
New Orleans is located in  southeastern louisiana , straddling the मिसिसिपी  River .
The  नगर और ऑरलियन्स मोहल्ला (  ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to  the उत्तर , st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट , plaquemines to the दक्षिण और जेफरसन to the दक्षिण और वेस्ट  .
Lake Pontchartrain ,  भाग of जिससे is शामिल in the नगर हद , झूठ to the उत्तर और झील borgne झूठ to  the east .
The National Birth Control  लीग थी a जनम कंट्रोल संगठन in  the United States .
It was founded  in कूच 1915 by मरियम dennett , क्लारा  Gruening Stillman and Jessie Ashley .
Its main  purpose थी to overturn the कानून जिससे बैन contraceptives  from the U.S. mails .
Campaigns were  आरोहित in नई यॉर्क , लकिन in 1919 the लीग थी disbanded और reformed  into the Voluntary Parenthood League .
Cancer , known medically as a  malignant फुलाव , is a व्यापक समूह of विभिन्न रोगों , सब involving unregulated  cell growth .
In cancer ,  कोशिकाएं divide और grow uncontrollably , forming malignant tumors  , and invade nearby parts of the body .
The cancer may also  स्प्रेड to अधिक दूर भाग of the देह through the lymphatic  system or bloodstream .
Not all  tumors हैं cancerous  .
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably , do not  invade neighboring ऊतकों , और do नहीं स्प्रेड throughout the देह  .
There are over 200  अलग ज्ञात cancers कि पहुँचकर  humans .
Determining  कया कल्याणकारी कर्कट is जटिल  .
Many things are known  to बढ़ाएँ the रिस्क of कर्कट , सहित तम्बाकू उपयोग , निश्चित infections , विकिरण , कमी of शारीरिक कार्यकलाप  , obesity , and environmental pollutants .
ये can सीधे क्षति जीनों or combine साथ मौजूदा  genetic faults within cells to cause the disease .
Approximately  पाँच to टेन प्रतिशत of cancers हैं entirely  hereditary .
कर्कट can be detected in a क्रमांक of तरीके , सहित the उपस्थिति of  certain signs and symptoms , screening tests , or medical imaging .
एकबार a संभावित कर्कट is detected it is diagnosed  by microscopic examination of a tissue sample .
Cancer is usually treated with  कीमोथेरेपी , विकिरण चिकित्सा और सर्जरी  .
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type and  स्थान of the कर्कट और the extent of बीमारी at the  start of treatment .
While cancer can affect people of  सब आयु , और a few प्रकार of कर्कट हैं अधिक आम in children , the रिस्क of विकासशील  cancer generally increases with age .
In 2007 , cancer  caused परिचय 13 % of सब इंसान मौतों  worldwide ( 7.9 million ) .
Rates are rising as more people  सजीव to an बूढ़ा आयु और as द्रव्यमान जीवनशैली परिवर्तन occur in the  developing world .
Spring ski touring  on hardangervidda , नार्वे
Skiing is a recreational activity and competitive sport in which the  भागीदार attaches long धावक or skis to बूट or जूते on the फीट और उपयोग उन्हें to सफर  on top of snow .
Aside from  मनोरंजन और प्रतियोगिता , स्कीइंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये सैन्य उद्देश्य और भी  travelling in areas that experience heavy snowfall .
Many types of competitive  स्कीइंग कार्यक्रम हैं पहचाना by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ओलम्पिक कमेटी , और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Ski Federation .
John  मेनार्ड keynes , 1st सामन्त keynes , cb , fba ( ; 5 जून 1883 – 21 अप्रैल 1946 ) थी a अंग्रेजों अर्थशास्त्री जिनकी विचार have fundamentally प्रभावित the सिद्धान्त और अभ्यास of  modern macroeconomics , and informed the economic policies of governments .
he निर्मित on और greatly परिष्कृत पहले कार्य on the कल्याणकारी of कारोबार चक्र , और is widely माना to be एक of the संस्थापकों of आधुनिक macroeconomics  and the most influential economist of the 20th century .
His ideas are the basis  लिये the स्कूल of विचार ज्ञात as keynesian अर्थशास्त्र , as  well as its various offshoots .
In many ways , subsequent developments in 20th century  अर्थशास्त्र can be viewed as either भवन on keynes ' विचार  or reacting against them .
In the 1930s , Keynes  पथप्रदर्शन a क्रान्ति in आर्थिक सोच , overturning the पुरानी विचार of neoclassical अर्थशास्त्र कि आयोजित कि फ़्री बाज़ार होता  , in the short to medium term , automatically provide full employment , as long as workers were flexible in their wage demands .
Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand determined the overall level of  आर्थिक कार्यकलाप , और कि अपर्याप्त कुल माँग could सीसे to prolonged अवधि of ऊँची  unemployment .
He advocated the  उपयोग of फिस्कल और मौद्रिक उपायों to mitigate the प्रतिकूल  effects of economic recessions and depressions .
Following the outbreak of the Second World  युद्ध , keynes 's विचार concerning आर्थिक नीति यहूद  adopted by leading Western economies .
In 1942 ,  keynes थी awarded a खानदानी peerage as सामन्त keynes of tilton  in the County of Sussex .
Keynes died in 1946 ,  लकिन दौरान the 1950s और 1960s the कामयाबी of keynesian अर्थशास्त्र  resulted in almost all capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations .
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s , partly as a result of problems that began  to पहुँचकर the anglo-american economies इससे the प्रारंभ of the दशक , और partly क्युकी of critiques इससे मिल्टन फ्राइडमैन और अन्य अर्थशास्त्रियों जो यहूद pessimistic परिचय the क्षमता of सरकारें to विनियमित the  business cycle with fiscal policy .
However ,  the आगमन of the वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट in 2007  caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought .
Keynesian economics  provided the सैद्धांतिक underpinning लिये आर्थिक नीतियों undertaken in जवाब to the संकट by राष्ट्रपतियों जार्ज W. बुश और बराक ओबामा of the संयुक्त राज्य , प्रधान मंत्री गॉर्डन भूरा of the संयुक्त किंगडम  , and other heads of governments .
In  1999 , समय पत्रिका शामिल keynes in उनके सूची of the 100 सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और influential लोगों of the  20th century , commenting that : `` His radical idea that governments should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism . ''
In addition to being an economist , Keynes was also a civil servant , a director of the British Eugenics Society , a  निदेशक of the बैंको of इंग्लैण्ड , a संरक्षक of the कला और an आर्ट कलेक्टर , a भाग of the bloomsbury समूह of intellectuals , an सलाहकार to अनेक charitable trusts , a लेखक , a पारस ,  a private investor , and a farmer .
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by  jekuthiel sofer emulated the 1675 टेन आयतें at the एम्सटर्डम  Esnoga synagogue .
The Ten Commandments , also known as the Decalogue , are a set of biblical laws relating to  आचार और इबादत , जिससे खेल a आधारभूत भूमिका in judaism , islam और christianity  .
They include instructions  to इबादत तभी परमेश्वर , to रखना the sabbath पावन और prohibitions विरूद्ध idolatry  , blasphemy , murder , theft , deception and adultery .
Different groups  follow थोड़ा अलग परंपराओं लिये interpreting  and numbering them .
the टेन आयतें appear twice in the यहूदी बाइबल  , in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy .
According to the story in Exodus , God inscribed them on  दो स्टोन टैबलेट , जिससे he दिया to मूसा on माउंट sinai  .
आधुनिक स्कॉलरशिप रै मिला संभावित प्रभाव in hittite और mesopotamian कानून और treaties , लकिन  is divided over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them .
The discography of the English alternative rock band The Smiths consists of four studio  एल्बम , एक विस्तारित खेल ( ep ) , एक सजीव एल्बम , टेन संकलन एल्बम , बीस singles , एक वीडियो एल्बम और चौदह म्यूज़िक वीडियो on the अशिष्ट व्यापार , sire और wea  record labels .
The band was formed in 1982 in Manchester by vocalist Morrissey , guitarist  जॉनी marr , बास खिलाड़ी एंडी rourke और वादक  Mike Joyce .
Despite being  championed by बीबीसी रेडियो 1 डिस्क jockey जॉन छिलके , the बैंड 's डेब्यू सिंगल , `` हाथ in दस्ताने  `` ( May 1983 ) , failed to chart .
Its follow-up , `` This Charming Man `` ( October 1983 )  , मिले साथ नाजुक acclaim और पहुँचे क्रमांक twenty-five on the uk singles  Chart .
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984 , as  वे पहुँचे क्रमांक बारह in the uk साथ the `` कया अंतर करता it मेक ? `` सिंगल और पहुँचे क्रमांक दो on the uk एल्बम चार्ट साथ उनके डेब्यू  album , The Smiths ( 1984 ) .
उनके अगला तीन singles सब पहुँचे the शीर्ष बीस of the चार्ट in the uk ,  helping to consolidate their previous chart success .
The next  स्टुडियो एल्बम , मांस is हत्या ( 1985 ) , पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the अंग्रेजों चार्ट ; however , the तभी सिंगल to be released इससे the एल्बम , `` कि चुटकुला is n't मजेदार  Anymore `` ( 1985 ) , failed to break the UK Top 40 .
Returning to form , The Smiths ' next six singles  सब पहुँचे the उच्चतर than क्रमांक तीस in the uk और उनके तीसरा एल्बम , the  Queen Is Dead ( 1986 ) , reached number two in the UK .
Despite the band 's  चार्ट कामयाबी , marr बाएँ the समूह in अगस्त 1987 due  to a strained relationship with Morrissey .
Failing to find a replacement , The Smiths disbanded by the  समय उनके फाइनल स्टुडियो एल्बम , strangeways , यहाँ we आइये , थी released  in September that year .
Strangeways , Here We Come reached number two in the UK  और became the बैंड 's highest-charting रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य जब  it reached number fifty-five on the Billboard 200 .
in जल्दी 1992 , wea acquired the संपूर्ण वापस कैटलॉग of the smiths और उत्पादित दो compilations – बेहतरीन ...  I and ... Best II – the first of which reached the top of the UK Albums Chart .
WEA  released दो further singles compilations in 1995 और 2001 , साथ a further संकलन  , The Sound of The Smiths , released in November 2008 .
Gone  साथ the हवा is a अनोखा लिखा by मार्गरेट मिशेल  , first published in 1936 .
It is often placed in the literary sub-genre of the  ऐतिहासिक रोमांस अनोखा .
However , it has been argued the novel is a `` near miss  '' और करता नहीं contain सब of the तत्व of the रोमांस विधा , बनाना it बस a ऐतिहासिक  novel .
The story is set in  क्लेटन काउंटी , जॉर्जिया , और अटलांटा दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल  War and Reconstruction .
It depicts the experiences of  स्कारलेट o'hara , the बिगड़े बेटी of a well-to-do वृक्षारोपण मालिक , जो जरूर उपयोग प्रत्येक अर्थात् at उसके  disposal to come out of the poverty she finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the Sea '' .
Margaret Mitchell began writing  गए साथ the हवा in 1926 to pass the समय जबकि recovering इससे an auto-crash  injury that refused to heal .
In  अप्रैल 1935 , हेरोल्ड लैथम of macmillan , an एडिटर जो  was looking for new fiction , read what she had written and saw that it could be a best-seller .
After Latham agreed to publish the book , Mitchell  worked लिये another छह महीने checking the ऐतिहासिक सन्दर्भ , और rewrote the खोलने  chapter several times .
मिशेल और उसके husband जॉन दलदल , a  copy editor by trade , edited the final version of the novel .
मिशेल लिखा the किताब 's फाइनल पल पहला , और तब  wrote the events that led up to it .
As to what became of  उसके प्रेमियों , रहेट और स्कारलेट , बाद the अनोखा ended , मिशेल किया नहीं जान , और कहा , `` लिये  all I know , Rhett may have found someone else who was less difficult . ''
Mitchell received the Pulitzer  पुरस्कार लिये fiction लिये the किताब in 1937  .
The book was adapted  into a 1939 अमरीकी फिल्मी .
Gone with the Wind  is the तभी अनोखा by मिशेल प्रकाशित दौरान  her lifetime .
Endodontics  ( इससे the यूनानी endo `` अंदर '' ; और odons `` दाँत '' ) is एक of the दंत specialties पहचाना by the अमरीकी दंत संघ , royal  College of Dentists of Canada , and Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons , and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth .
Endodontists perform a variety of procedures  सहित endodontic चिकित्सा ( commonly ज्ञात as `` रूट कनाल चिकित्सा '' ) , endodontic retreatment  , surgery , treating cracked teeth , and treating dental trauma .
Root canal  चिकित्सा is एक of the सबसे आम  procedures .
If the pulp ( containing nerves , arterioles ,  venules , lymphatic ऊतक , और तंतुमय ऊतक ) becomes diseased or घायल , endodontic  treatment is required to save the tooth .
Serial Attached  scsi ( sas ) is a point-to-point सीरियल प्रोटोकॉल कि चालें आंकड़ा to और इससे कंप्यूटर भंडार डिवाइस  such as hard drives and tape drives .
SAS replaces the  पुरानी समानांतर scsi ( सुनाया ``  scuzzy '' ) bus technology that first appeared in the mid-1980s .
SAS  , जैसे इसके पूर्ववर्ती , उपयोग the मानक  SCSI command set .
SAS offers  पिछड़ा संगतता साथ second-generation  SATA drives .
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be  कनेक्ट to sas backplanes , लकिन sas ड्राइव can नहीं कनेक्ट  to SATA backplanes .
The T10  तकनीकी कमेटी of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय कमेटी लिये सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी मानकों ( incits ) develops और  maintains the SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology .
भाग of the संवैधानिक प्रावधान as it appeared  in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United States is one of the eligibility requirements established in the  संयुक्त राज्य संविधान लिये चुनाव  to the office of President or Vice President .
This requirement was  intended to protect the स्वदेश इससे विदेशी influence  .
The  संविधान करता नहीं define the phrase natural-born  citizen , and various opinions have been offered over time regarding its precise meaning .
A 2011  congressional शोध सेवा रपट stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several decisions of the United States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with the question of eligibility for citizenship by birth  , लकिन the परम् अदालत रै never सीधे addressed the सवाल of a विशिष्ट अध्यक्षीय or vice-presidential प्रत्याशी 's पात्रता as a natural-born नागरिक  .
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June  22 , 1971 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल  player .
He  निभाई क्वार्टरबैक लिये तीन नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) टीमों : the st. लुई  Rams , the New York Giants , and the Arizona Cardinals .
He was originally signed  by the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स as an undrafted फ़्री एजेंट in 1994 बाद playing कॉलेज  football at Northern Iowa .
Warner would go on to be considered the  बेहतरीन undrafted खिलाड़ी of सब समय , following a 12-year करियर regarded as एक of the महानतम कहानियां in एनएफएल इतिहास  .
Warner first attained stardom while playing for the St.  लुई मेढ़ों इससे 1998 to 2003 , जहाँ he जीती दो एनएफएल mvp पुरस्कार in 1999 और 2001 as खूब  as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV .
He led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super  कटोरी xliii ( the मताधिकार 's पहला सुपर कटोरी berth ) , और owns the तीन उच्चतम single-game  passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history .
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest career  passer दरजा of all-time ( 93.7 ) , और the third-highest करियर पूर्णता  percentage in NFL history with 65.5 % .
In 13 career playoff  खेल , warner बाँधने पहला all-time in पूर्णता प्रतिशत ( 66.5 % ) , गज प्रति attempt ( 8.55 ) , और दूसरी  in passer rating ( 102.8 ) .
He also  holds the उच्चतम पूर्णता प्रतिशत लिये a सिंगल खेल दौरान the नियमित ऋतु , at 92.3 प्रतिशत  ( 24/26 ) , on September 20 , 2009 , against the Jacksonville Jaguars .
He announced  उसके रिटायरमेंट on जनवरी 29 , 2010. < संदर्भ name='cnn  2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ; born  may 26 , 1953 ) is the जूनियर संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटर इससे उत्तर कैरोलिना , in दफ्तर  since January 2009 .
Previously she served in  the उत्तर कैरोलिना सीनेट इससे 1999 to  2009 .
She is a member of the  लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी और is viewed as a मॉडरेट सदस्य  of her party .
When Hagan defeated Republican incumbent Elizabeth Dole in the 2008 United  राज्य सीनेट चुनाव , वो became the पहला स्त्री to शिकस्त an लाज़िम स्त्री in a सीनेट  election .
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman ) , is awarded annually to the  खिलाड़ी deemed the सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी in कॉलेजिएट  football .
It was  निर्मित in 1935 as the शहर एथलेटिक क्लबों ट्रॉफी और renamed in 1936 following the मौत of the क्लबों 's एथलेटिक निदेशक , जॉन heisman ( पूर्व भूरा विश्वविद्यालयों और विश्वविद्यालयों  of Pennsylvania player ; head football coach at Oberlin College , Auburn University , Clemson University , Rice University , and the University of Pennsylvania ; and football , basketball , and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ) .
The award is presented by the  heisman ट्रॉफी विश्वास in जल्दी दिसम्बर पहले the postseason  bowl games .
It is the oldest of several overall awards in college football , including  the मैक्सवेल पुरस्कार , वाल्टर शिविर पुरस्कार , और the ap खिलाड़ी of the साल .
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most outstanding player , while the Maxwell  पुरस्कार और वाल्टर शिविर पुरस्कार recognize the बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी , और the आर्ची griffin पुरस्कार recognizes the सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी .
The United Nations Command (  unc ) is the एकीकृत कमांड ढांचा लिये the बहुराष्ट्रीय सैन्य शक्तियां supporting the  Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War .
After  सैनिकों of the लोकतांत्रिक लोगों 's गणतंत्र of कोरियाई ( उत्तर कोरियाई or dprk ) invaded दक्षिण कोरियाई on जून 25 , 1950 , the  United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 82 calling on North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel .
On June 27 , 1950 , it adopted Resolution 83 ,  recommending कि सदस्यों of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र provide सहायता to the गणतंत्र of कोरियाई `` to repel the हथियारबंद आक्रमण और to restore अंतरराष्ट्रीय  peace and security to the area '' .
Security Council Resolution 84 ,  अपनाया on जुलाई 7 , 1950 , अनुशंसित कि सदस्यों providing सैन्य शक्तियां और अन्य सहायता to दक्षिण कोरियाई `` मेक ऐसे शक्तियां और  other assistance available to a unified command under the United States of America '' .
Although the resolutions  सुझाया the शक्तियां अंतर्गत the unc यहूद `` संयुक्त राष्ट्र शक्तियां '' , और संयुक्त राष्ट्र itself could be माना a belligerent , in अभ्यास the संयुक्त  Nations exercised no control over the combat forces , which were controlled by the United States .
Most observers concluded that the forces  अंतर्गत the unc यहूद नहीं in विधि संयुक्त राष्ट्र सैनिकों , और the अधिनियमों of the  UNC were not the acts of the United Nations .
The UNC can be regarded as an alliance  of नेशनल सेना , ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the सामूहिक सही  of self-defense .
On August 29 , 1950 , the British  राष्ट्रमंडल 's 27th infantry ब्रिगेड arrived at बुसान to जुड़ें the unc , जिससे जबतक तब शामिल  only ROK and U.S. forces .
The  27th ब्रिगेड स्थानांतरित into the naktong नदी लकीर  west of Daegu .
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid succession ; Australia , Belgian  संयुक्त राष्ट्र कमांड , कनाडा , कोलंबिया , इथियोपिया , फ़्रांस , यूनानियों , ध्वज , the नीदरलैंड्स , नई जीलैंड , the  Philippines , Thailand and Turkey .
the संघ of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी provided एयर इकाई  which fought alongside the air forces of other member nations .
Denmark , India ,  नार्वे , और स्वीडन provided चिकित्सा  units .
Italy provided a hospital , even  हालांकि it थी नहीं a un सदस्य .
The United Nations Command and  the chinese-north कोरियाई कमांड हस्ताक्षरित the कोरियाई armistice  Agreement on 27 July 1953 , ending the heavy fighting .
The armistice agreement established the Military Armistice Commission  ( मैक ) , consisting of प्रतिनिधि of the दो signatories , to supervise the क्रियान्वयन of the  armistice terms .
The  उत्तर korean-chinese मैक रै महरूम replaced by panmumjon प्रतिनिधि अंतर्गत  exclusive North Korean management .
Regular meetings have been stopped , although duty officers of Joint  सुरक्षा क्षेत्रफल , commonly ज्ञात as the युद्धविराम गाँव of panmunjom , इससे प्रत्येक पक्ष मिलें  regularly .
Lincoln Heights is an American family drama television series about Eddie Sutton , a Mission Vista police officer who  चालें उसके परिवार वापस to उसके बूढ़ा पड़ोस , lincoln हाइट्स , to प्रारंभ a नई जीवन और to सहायता आउट उसके बूढ़ा पड़ोस  .
It is a dangerous place to raise a family , and through the many trials the family goes through ,  वे जल्द सीख कि settling in is नहीं as आसान as it seems  .
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every day life  as a गली cop in लॉस एंजिल्स , उसके बच्चे कोशिश to अनुरूप in at उनके नई स्कूलों और साथ उनके नई पड़ोसी  .
The show premiered January 8 ,  2007 on the एबीसी परिवार संजाल साथ 13 एपीसोड ordered लिये  the first season .
It  थी स्वीकृत लिये a दूसरी ऋतु , जिससे  premiered September 4 , 2007 .
Vanessa  हजेंस ' सोंग , कह ok था महरूम प्रयुक्त in a वाणिज्यिक to प्रचार the दूसरी  season .
to प्रचार the तीसरा ऋतु , वे दिखाया क्लिप्स of cassie और चार्ल्स 's संबंध  to the song , Crush by the American Idol 's seventh season runner-up , David Archuleta .
to प्रचार ऋतु 4 , वे 're using the  song , Avalanche by Marie Digby .
the दिखाएँ 's थीम सोंग थी लिखा और performed by bassist स्टेनली क्लार्क और singer-songwriter  Blaire Reinhard .
On January 29 , 2010 , ABC  परिवार घोषित the रद्दीकरण of the श्रेणी बाद चार सीज़न  .
A Christian denomination is an  identifiable धार्मिक देह अंतर्गत a आम नाम , ढांचा , और doctrine  within Christianity .
In the Orthodox tradition , churches are  विभाजित प्रायः साथ जातीय और भाषाई लाइनों , into पृथक  churches and traditions .
Technically , divisions between  एक समूह और another हैं पारिभाषित by doctrine और गिरिजाघर  authority .
Issues such as the  प्रकृति of यीशु , the प्राधिकार of अपोस्टोलिक उत्तराधिकार , eschatology , और papal primacy पृथक  one denomination from another .
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members , over half of all  ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी , बनाना it the largest denomination लिये कोई धर्म विश्वव्यापी  ( although the church does not view itself as a denomination , but as the original pre-denominational church ) .
Protestant denominations comprise  roughly 38–39 % of ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी , और साथ the catholics , protestants , anglicans , और अन्य closely  related denominations comprise Western Christianity .
the पूर्वी परंपरागत गिरिजाघर , प्राच्य परंपरागत चर्च और the assyrian  Church of the East are considered Eastern Christian denominations .
Western  ईसाई denominations जीतना in पश्चिमी  Europe and its former colonies .
Eastern Christian  denominations हैं represented ज़्यादातर in पूर्वी यूरोपीय  , the Middle East and North Africa .
Christians have various doctrines about the Church , the body of faithful that they  मानना थी स्थापित by यीशु मसीह , और कैसा the दैवी गिरिजाघर corresponds to ईसाई  denominations .
Both the  catholics और the पूर्वी परंपरागत consider प्रत्येक of themselves solely to faithfully represent the एक  Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church to the exclusion of the other .
Protestants separated from the  कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर क्युकी of theologies और practices कि वे माना to be in उल्लंघन  of their interpretation .
Generally , members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as  ईसाइयों , at तनिक to the extent कि वे have mutually पहचाना baptisms और acknowledge historically परंपरागत दृश्य सहित the देवत्व of यीशु और  doctrines of sin and salvation , even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches .
Since the reforms surrounding Vatican II , the  कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर रै referred to प्रोटोस्टेंट समुदायों as `` denominations '' , जबकि reserving the पद `` गिरिजाघर  '' for apostolic churches , including the Eastern Orthodox ( see subsistit in and branch theory ) .
There are  however कुछ non-denominational ईसाइयों जो do नहीं follow  any particular branch .
The  पांडा ( ailuropoda melanoleuca  , lit .
`` black and white  cat-foot '' ) , भी ज्ञात as the दानव पांडा to फर्क it इससे the unrelated रेड पांडा ,  is a bear native to central-western and south western China .
It is  easily पहचाना by the विशाल , distinctive ब्लैक धब्बे around इसके आँखें , over  the ears , and across its round body .
Though it belongs to the order  carnivora , the पांडा 's आहार is 99 % बाँसुरी  .
Pandas  in the जंगली होगा occasionally खा अन्य grasses , जंगली tubers , or  even meat in the form of birds , rodents or carrion .
In captivity , they may receive honey , eggs ,  मछली , yams , झाड़ी पत्ते , संतरे , or केले साथ  with specially prepared food .
The giant panda lives in a few mountain ranges in central China ,  मुख्यतः in सिचुआन प्रांत , लकिन भी in the shaanxi और गांसू  provinces .
As a result of farming ,  वनों और अन्य विकास , the पांडा रै महरूम  driven out of the lowland areas where it once lived .
The panda  is a संरक्षण reliant endangered  species .
A 2007 report shows 239  pandas जीना in captivity अंदर चीन और another  27 outside the country .
Wild  जनसांख्यिकी estimates vary ; एक अनुमान shows कि वहीँ हैं परिचय 1,590 individuals जीना in the जंगली , जबकि a 2006 पढ़ाई via डीएनए विश्लेषण अनुमानित कि इस  figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000 .
Some reports also show that  the क्रमांक of pandas in the जंगली is on the वृद्धि  .
However , the IUCN does not believe there is enough certainty yet to  reclassify the प्रजाति इससे endangered to  Vulnerable .
While  the ड्रैगन रै प्रायः परोसा as चीन 's नेशनल emblem , internationally  the panda appears at least as commonly .
as ऐसे , it is बनने widely प्रयुक्त भीतर चीन in अंतरराष्ट्रीय  contexts , for example the five Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics .
The Kite Runner is a 2007 American drama  फिल्मी निर्देशित by मार्क forster आधारित on the अनोखा  of the same name by Khaled Hosseini .
It tells the story of Amir , a well-to-do boy from  the वज़ीर akbar खान ज़िला of काबुल , जो is tormented by the guilt of abandoning उसके dost हसन , the बेटे of उसके पिता 's hazara  servant .
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events , from the fall of the monarchy in  अफगानिस्तान through the सोवियत सैन्य हस्तक्षेप , the द्रव्यमान exodus of अफगान शरणार्थियों to पाकिस्तानी और the संयुक्त राज्य , और the तालिबान  regime .
Though most of the film is set in Afghanistan , these parts were  ज़्यादातर शॉट in काश्गर , चीन , due to the खतरों of फिल्मांकन in अफगानिस्तान at the  time .
The majority of the film  's संवाद is in जमींदारी , साथ the शेष बोला in अंग्रेज़ी  .
The child actors are native speakers  , लकिन अनेक वयस्क अभिनेताओं था to सीख  Dari .
फिल्मांकन लपेटा up on दिसम्बर 21 , 2006 , और the फिल्मी  was expected to be released on November 2 , 2007 .
However , after concern for the safety of the young actors in the film due to fears  of हिंसक reprisals to the यौन प्रकृति of कुछ दृश्यों in जिससे वे appear , इसके रिलीज तिथि  was pushed back six weeks to December 14 , 2007 .
The Kite Runner was  released on dvd on कूच 25 , 2008  .
A HD DVD release  थी घोषित लिये the वही तिथि  , but was canceled following the format 's demise .
the फिल्मी थी मनोनीत लिये the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये  Best Foreign Language Film in 2007 .
The  फिल्मी 's स्कोर by अल्बर्टो इग्लेसियस थी मनोनीत  for Best Original Score at the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards .
The legality of  कैनबिस varies इससे देश to  country .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most  देशों और रै महरूम चूंकि the शुरूआत of फैली कैनबिस निषेध  in the late 1930s .
However , many countries have  decriminalized the कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस , विशेषकर in उत्तर अमेरिका , दक्षिण अमेरिका और यूरोपीय  .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and  होता be in the u.S. राज्य of कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय विधि , जिससे governs  persons in all states .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a  क्रमांक of देशों , सहित कनाडा , the चेक गणतंत्र  and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis , enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established  औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि खण्डन संघीय विधि ; दो राज्य ( कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन ) have repealed उनके कानून prohibiting the recreational उपयोग of कैनबिस और replaced उन्हें साथ a नियामक शासन ,  also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as  vigorously prosecuted as अन्य लकिन , अलावा इससे the देशों कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम to चिकित्सा मारिजुआना ,  most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are  लिया अधिक seriously in कुछ देशों than अन्य in लिहाज़ to the cultivation , उपयोग , कब्ज़ा  or transfer of cannabis for recreational use .
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties  लिये कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities of कैनबिस , बनाना it दंडनीय by confiscation और a ठीक , बल्कि  than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/  ड्रग न्यायालयों उपयोग अनिवार्य उपचार कार्यक्रम लिये यंग or बारंबार उपयोक्ता , साथ स्वतंत्रता इससे narcotic दवाएँ as  the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
वहीँ हैं भी परिवर्तन in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक दिशा  as in Canada .
Drug tests  to detect कैनबिस हैं increasingly आम in अनेक देशों और have resulted  in jail sentences and people losing their jobs .
However ,  सरल कब्ज़ा can carry long कारावास वाक्य in कुछ देशों , विशेषकर in भाग of ईस्ट एशिया और southeast एशिया जहाँ the बिक्री  of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution .
Loxahatchee  is a जातियाँ स्तिथ in ताड़ बीच काउंटी , फ्लोरिडा  , United States .
It is located in the areas north of  वेलिंगटन और वेस्ट और उत्तरपश्चिम of royal ताड़ बीच , फ्लोरिडा और लगभग वेस्ट of वेस्ट ताड़ बीच  .
Loxahatchee is also the name of the Post  दफ्तर कि serves इस क्षेत्रफल , जिससे is अंतर्गत the zip  code of 33470 .
The  नाम loxahatchee अर्थात् `` कछुआ  river . ''
Loxahatchee  is स्तिथ भीतर the भारतीय trails सुधार ज़िला और the loxahatchee  Groves Water Control District .
Lion Country  safari , a drive-through safari पार्क , is स्तिथ in loxahatchee  .
In 2006 , the  राज्य of फ्लोरिडा स्वीकृत incorporation of भाग of loxahatchee  as the Town of Loxahatchee Groves to become the 38th municipality in Palm Beach County .
the प्रमुख कारण लिये incorporating थी to बेहतर protect the क्षेत्रफल इससे बुवाई  growth and to preserve the rural character of the neighborhood .
शायद the सबसे ग्रामीण क्षेत्रफल भीतर a बंद निकटता  to West Palm Beach , with lot sizes range from 1-20 acres .
साथ साथ the acreage , it is notable लिये ढीला जमीन प्रतिबंध और the देशी  and exotic animal presence is quite notable .
Seminole Ridge High  स्कूल serves the क्षेत्रफल  .
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a test , administered by Citizenship and Immigration Canada  ( सीआईसी ) , कि is जरूरी लिये सब आवेदकों लिये कनाडाई नागरिकता जो हैं aged between 18  and 54 and who meet the basic requirements for citizenship .
The test is  उपलब्धियाँ in दोनो फ्रेंच और अंग्रेज़ी , the आधिकारिक भाषाएं  of Canada .
पुनर्जागरण क्रूज़ , originally संस्थापित in 1989 स्वामित्व by fearnley & eger rederi in ओस्लो - नार्वे , बाद खरीदा  by Edward Rudner ( founder of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf War .
They operated year-round cruise  itineraries to the भूमध्यसागरीय , the यूनानी isles , tahiti और the दक्षिण प्रशांत , उत्तरी  Europe and Scandinavia .
The company  ceased परिचालन on 25 सितंबर 2001 और  accommodated up to 220,000 guests in 2000 .
While  the कम्पनी था महरूम in ग़रीब वित्तीय स्वास्थ्य लिये काफी कुछ समय , the आर्थिक मनाही resulting इससे the सितंबर 11th  terrorist attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line .
The fleet is listed  अंतर्गत सूची of क्रूज जहाजों .
It was  headquartered in फोर्ट lauderdale  , Florida .
epithelium is एक of the चार मौलिक प्रकार of एनिमल ऊतक , साथ साथ संयोजी ऊतक  , muscle tissue and nervous tissue .
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and  सतहों of structures throughout the देह , और भी रूप अनेक ग्रंथियों  .
कृत्यों of epithelial कोशिकाएं शामिल स्राव , चयनात्मक अवशोषण , सुरक्षा  , transcellular transport and detection of sensation .
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means ``  on '' or `` upon '' , और `` θηλή ''  ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple '' .
Epithelial layers are avascular , so they must receive nourishment via  diffusion of substances इससे the underlying संयोजी ऊतक  , through the basement membrane .
Epithelia can also be organized into clusters of  कोशिकाएं कि फलन as बहिःस्रावी और अंतःस्रावी  glands .
Kent E. Hovind ( born  जनवरी 15 , 1953 ) is an अमरीकी यंग धरती creationist  .
Hovind has spoken on creation science and  रै aimed to मनाना श्रोता to अस्वीकृत theories of एवोल्यूशन , भूभौतिकी , और cosmology in एहसान  of his interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible .
Hovind 's views are  contradicted by वैज्ञानिक प्रमाण और कुछ of उसके विचार have भी महरूम criticized by यंग धरती creationist संगठन  such as Answers in Genesis .
Hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991 , and  अक्सर spoke on यंग धरती creationism at seminars at निजी स्कूलों और चर्च , debates , और on रेडियो और टेलीविज़न  broadcasts .
Since January 2007 , Hovind has been serving a  ten-year थाना वाक्य बाद होने convicted of 58 संघीय रिश्तो , सहित 12 कर offenses , एक गिनती of obstructing  federal agents , and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions .
He is incarcerated at the Federal  correctional संस्था at बर्लिन , नई हैम्पशायर  .
Bride with  बिंदी सजा  forehead
A bindi ( , from Sanskrit bindu , meaning `` a drop , small particle ,  बिन्दु '' ) , or a pottu/bottu ( in तमिल , तेलुगु , और मलयालम ) is a माथे सजावट worn in दक्षिण एशिया ( विशेषकर इण्डिया , बांग्लादेश , नेपाल , श्री लंका  and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia .
Traditionally it is  a उज्जवल बिन्दु of रेड रंग लागू in the बीच of the माथे बंद to the eyebrows , लकिन it can भी consist of a चिह्न  or piece of jewelry worn at this location .
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on Tuesday ,  नवम्बर 2 , 2010 , to elect the राज्यपाल of नई यॉर्क , to serve a four-year पद कि began in जनवरी  2011 .
Incumbent Democratic  राज्यपाल दाउद paterson , निर्वाचित as लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल in 2006 as the कार्यशील mate of पूर्व राज्यपाल एलियट स्पिट्जर  , chose not to run for a full-term .
On November 2 , New  यॉर्क attorney सामान्य और डेमोक्रेट एंड्रयू cuomo  defeated Republican Carl Paladino .
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins  प्राप्त over 57,000 मत , allowing the नई यॉर्क ग्रीन पार्टी to be सूचीबद्ध on the बैलट  for the next 4 years .
The main cast of Dragon Ball at  the समाप्त of the manga  .
The Dragon Ball manga  और दुश्मनी श्रेणी सुविधाएँ an extensive डाल of वर्ण निर्मित  by Akira Toriyama .
The  श्रेणी takes प्लेस in a fictional ब्रह्मांड , the वही as toriyama 's पिछला श्रेणी dr. slump , और फ़ॉलो the adventures of martial कलाकार बेटे goku इससे बाल्यकाल to adulthood as he खोज लिये the सात  spheres known as the Dragon Balls , used to summon a wish-granting dragon .
During the course of the story , he  मुठभेड़ों allies ऐसे as bulma , yamcha , kuririn और trunks , विरोधियों ऐसे as tenshinhan  , Piccolo and Vegeta , and enemies such as Freeza and Cell .
While many of the characters are humans  साथ superhuman शक्ति and/or अलौकिक abilities , the डाल भी शामिल anthropomorphic  animals and later , extraterrestrial lifeforms .
The series also includes  depictions of the आफ्टरलाइफ , साथ अनेक वर्ण होने  gods that govern the universe .
250px
The Comanche are a Plains Indian tribe whose historic territory , known as Comancheria ,  consisted of उपस्थित दिन पूर्वी नई मैक्सिको , दक्षिणी कोलोराडो , northeastern एरिज़ोना , दक्षिणी कान्सास , सब of ओक्लाहोमा  , and most of northwest Texas .
The Comanche  लोगों हैं नामांकित in the federally पहचाना comanche  Nation , in Oklahoma .
Historically  , the comanches यहूद hunter-gatherers साथ  a horse culture .
There may have been as many as  45,000 comanches in the लेट 18th  century .
Today , the Comanche Nation  comanche जनजातीय नामांकन संख्याएँ 15,191 साथ लगभग 7,763 सदस्यों residing  in the Lawton – Fort Sill and surrounding areas of Southwest Oklahoma .
The  comanche स्वदेश homecoming powwow is आयोजित annually in walters , ओक्लाहोमा  in mid-July .
The Comanche spoke  the comanche भाषा , a numic भाषा of the uto-aztecan परिवार , sometimes वर्गीकृत as  a Shoshone dialect ; however , only about 1 % of Comanches speak it today .
Ethan Frome is a novel  प्रकाशित in 1911 by the पुलित्जर पुरस्कार -winning अमरीकी  author Edith Wharton .
It is set in  the fictitious कस्बा of starkfield ,  Massachusetts .
the अनोखा थी adapted into a फिल्मी ,  Ethan Frome , in 1993 .
Times  वर्गाकार studios ( तस ) is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न स्टुडियो स्तिथ in the टाइम्स वर्गाकार  neighborhood of the Manhattan borough of New York City , New York .
The studio is best known as the production  घर of एबीसी न्यूज ' शुभ morning अमेरिका ( जीएमए ) , a morning न्यूज और बात कार्यक्रम  and segments for GMA on ABC News Now .
The Las Vegas  स्ट्रिप संसार of coca-cola संग्रहालय  in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants , and vending  मशीने in प्रत्येक देश मगर क्यूबा और उत्तर कोरियाई  .
It  is उत्पादित by the coca-cola कम्पनी of अटलांटा , जॉर्जिया , और is प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क  of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent  आयुर्विज्ञान जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th सदी by जॉन pemberton , coca-cola थी खरीदा आउट by बिजनेसमैन asa griggs candler , जिनकी विपणन  tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to  licensed coca-cola bottlers throughout the संसार  .
the bottlers , जो थाम territorially विशेष अनुबंध साथ the कम्पनी , उपज समाप्त उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the concentrate  in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
the bottlers तब बेचें , वितरित और merchandise  Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines .
ऐसे bottlers शामिल coca-cola उद्यमों , जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola  bottler in North America and western Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells  concentrate लिये सोडा स्रोतों to प्रमुख रेस्तरां  and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has ,  on अवसर , introduced अन्य कोला पेय अंतर्गत the  Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with  अन्य सहित caffeine-free coca-cola , आहार कोक caffeine-free , coca-cola चेरी , coca-cola  Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best  वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011 , coca-cola थी the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान  brand .
प्रकार of bar-lines
In musical notation , a  बार ( or माप ) is a खण्ड of समय पारिभाषित by a दिए क्रमांक of बीट्स , प्रत्येक of जिससे  are assigned a particular note value .
dividing म्यूज़िक into बार provides नियमित सन्दर्भ अंक to pin पाइंट  locations within a piece of music .
It also makes written music easier to  follow , चूंकि प्रत्येक बार of स्टाफ प्रतीकों can be पढ़ा और निभाई  as a batch .
Typically , a piece consists of several bars of the same length , and in modern musical  संकेतन the क्रमांक of बीट्स in प्रत्येक बार is निर्दिष्ट at the शुरूआत of the स्कोर by the शीर्ष क्रमांक of a समय हस्ताक्षर ( ऐसे as 3/4 ) , जबकि the नीचे क्रमांक indicates the नोट मान of the ताल  ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ) .
The word bar is more common in British English , and the word  माप is अधिक आम in अमरीकी अंग्रेज़ी , हालांकि संगीतकारों generally समझे  both usages .
In American English , although the words bar and measure are often used interchangeably the correct  उपयोग of the शब्द 'bar ' refers तभी to the लंबवत लकीर itself , जबकि the शब्द 'measure ' refers to the बीट्स  contained between bars .
In international usage  , it is बराबर सही to बोलो of बार संख्याएँ और माप संख्याएँ , e.g .  ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm . 9–16’ .
Along  the वही लाइनों , it is हिकमत to आरक्षित the abbreviated रूप  ‘bb .
3–4’ etc .  लिये बीट्स तभी ; बार चाहिए be referred to by नाम  in full .
the पहला metrically पूरा  measure within a piece of music is called ‘bar 1’ or ‘m . 1’ .
When the piece  begins साथ an anacrusis ( an अधूरी माप at the सिर of  a piece of music ) , ‘bar 1’ or ‘m . 1’ is the following measure .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of  भंडार और can सप्लाई शक्ति 24 घंटों a दिन .
Solar energy , radiant light and  ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य , रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स  using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity  , सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis , जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान to solving कुछ of the सबसे तात्कालिक उर्जा समस्याएं  the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive  सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on the रास्ता वे कैप्चर , बदलें और वितरित  solar energy .
Active  सौर तकनीकों शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors  to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or  लाइट dispersing गुण , और डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस कि naturally circulate  air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the  विकास of सस्ती , inexhaustible और साफ सौर उर्जा technologies होगा have  huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’  उर्जा सुरक्षा through रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी , inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन , बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता , reduce  pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These  लाभ हैं वैश्विक  .
Hence the  अतिरिक्त लागत of the प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ;  they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
Primary care may be  provided in जातियाँ स्वास्थ्य केंद्रों  .
Primary care is the health  परवाह दिए by a स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रदाता  .
typically इस प्रदाता अधिनियमों as the प्रिंसिपल पाइंट of परामर्श लिये मरीजों भीतर  a health care system and coordinates other specialists that the patient may need .
Such a professional can be a primary care physician , such as a general  practitioner or परिवार चिकित्सक , or depending on the मोहल्ले , स्वास्थ्य प्रणाली संगठन , और रोगी 's discretion , वे may देखिए a फार्मासिस्ट , a चिकित्सक सहायक , a नर्स practitioner , a नर्स ( ऐसे as in the संयुक्त किंगडम ) , a नैदानिक अधिकारी ( ऐसे as in भाग of अफ़्रीकी ) , or an आयुर्वेदिक  or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ) .
depending on the प्रकृति of the स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन , मरीजों  may then be referred for secondary or tertiary care .
``  समंदर एवेन्यू '' is a सोंग अंकित by अमरीकी  pop punk group Yellowcard .
It was released in  फ़रवरी 2004 as the दूसरी सिंगल इससे समंदर एवेन्यू और  the third track .
It is known for bringing them into the mainstream , as it  प्राप्त numerous spins on एमटीवी और increasing  radio airplay .
Ocean Avenue is a  गली in jacksonville , फ्लोरिडा , the बैंड 's stomping grounds निकट उनके ऊँची स्कूल , डगलस एंडरसन स्कूल of the  Arts , and another street mentioned in the song , Cherry Street .
The name of Ocean Avenue  in jacksonville is दरअसल बीच boulevard  .
They left their original  आधार पीछे जब वे स्थानांतरित to लॉस एंजिल्स  .
The song was featured on the Much Music  संकलन एल्बम बिग चमकदार धुनें 9 .
A psychiatrist is a  चिकित्सक जो specializes in psychiatry  .
A  मनोचिकित्सक specializes in the उपचार of दिमागी  disorders .
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine , conduct physical  examinations , अनुक्रम और interpret प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण , उपयोग मनोचिकित्सा और may अनुक्रम दिमाग इमेजिंग अध्ययन ऐसे as computed टोमोग्राफी ( ct/cat स्कैन ) ,  magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scanning .
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of health as a state  of पूरा शारीरिक , दिमागी और सोशल well-being , और नहीं merely the अनुपस्थिति of बीमारी or infirmity , reproductive स्वास्थ्य , or यौन health/hygiene , पता  the reproductive processes , functions and system at all stages of life .
Reproductive  स्वास्थ्य , इसलिए , implies कि लोगों हैं समर्थ to have a जिम्मेदार , संतोषजनक और safer sex जीवन और  that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if , when and how often to do so .
One interpretation of this implies that men and  महिलाओं ought to be सूचित of और to have अभिगम to सुरक्षित , प्रभावी , सस्ती और स्वीकार्य विधि of जनम कंट्रोल ; भी अभिगम to उचित स्वास्थ्य परवाह सेवाएं of यौन , reproductive आयुर्विज्ञान और क्रियान्वयन of स्वास्थ्य शिक्षा  programs to stress the importance of women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant .
on the अन्य हाथ individuals do फेस  inequalities in reproductive health services .
Inequalities vary based on  socioeconomic औकात , शिक्षा स्तर , आयु , नस्ल , धर्म , और संसाधन  available in their environment .
It is possible for example , that low  आय individuals कमी the संसाधन लिये उचित स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं और the ज्ञान to जान कया is उचित लिये maintaining  reproductive health .
According to the WHO , ``  reproductive और यौन ill-health खाते लिये 20 % of the वैश्विक बोझ of ill-health लिये महिलाओं  , and 14 % for men . ''
reproductive स्वास्थ्य is a भाग of यौन और reproductive  health and rights .
This is a list of episodes for the Disney Channel original series The  सुइट जीवन on डेक , जिससे aired लिये तीन सीज़न on डिज़्नी चैनल  from September 26 , 2008 to May 6 , 2011 .
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a range of Intel 's consumer 64-bit x86-64  single- , दुआl- , और quad-core microprocessors आधारित on the कोर  microarchitecture .
The single- and  dual-core मॉडल हैं single- die , whereas the quad-core मॉडल comprise दो मरता , प्रत्येक containing दो cores  , packaged in a multi-chip module .
The introduction of Core 2 relegated  the pentium ब्रांड to the mid-range मार्केट , और reunified लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप cpu लाइनों , जिससे previously था महरूम  divided into the Pentium 4 , Pentium D , and Pentium M brands .
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006 , comprising the Solo ( single-core ) , Duo (  dual-core ) , क्वाड ( quad-core ) , और in 2007 , the चरम ( दुआl- or quad-core cpu लिये enthusiasts )  subbrands .
Intel Core 2  processors साथ vpro प्रौद्योगिकी ( designed लिये व्यवसायों ) शामिल  the dual-core and quad-core branches .
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the National Football League ( NFL ) , the highest level of professional  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल in the संयुक्त राज्य , culminating a ऋतु कि begins in the लेट गर्मियाँ of the पिछला  calendar year .
The  सुपर कटोरी उपयोग रोमन numerals to पहचानो  each game , rather than the year in which it is held .
For example , Super Bowl I was played on January  15 , 1967 , following the 1966 नियमित ऋतु , जबकि सुपर कटोरी xlvii थी निभाई on फ़रवरी 3 , 2013  , following the 2012 season .
The game was created as part  of a विलय अनुबंध between the एनएफएल और इसके then-rival लीग , the  American Football League ( AFL ) .
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion teams  होता खेल in an afl–nfl संसार चैंपियनशिप खेल जबतक the विलय थी to officially  begin in 1970 .
After the merger , each league was  redesignated as a `` सम्मेलन `` , और the खेल थी तब निभाई between the सम्मेलन champions  .
Currently , the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) लीड the श्रेणी साथ 25 विन्स to 22 विन्स लिये the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल  Conference ( AFC ) .
The day on which the  सुपर कटोरी is निभाई , अभी माना by कुछ a de facto अमरीकी नेशनल अवकाश , is पुकारा ``  Super Bowl Sunday `` .
It is the second-largest day  लिये u.S. खाना खपत , बाद थैंक्सगिविंग  Day .
In addition , the Super  कटोरी रै अक्सर महरूम the सबसे देखी  American television broadcast of the year .
Super Bowl XLV , played in 2011 , became the most-watched  अमरीकी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम in इतिहास , आरेखण an औसत दर्शक of 111 लाख दर्शक और लेने over the स्पॉट आयोजित by the पिछला साल 's सुपर कटोरी , जिससे  itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H .
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting events in  the संसार , लगभग सब होने उत्तर अमरीकी ऑडियंस , और is दूसरी to संघ  football ’s UEFA Champions League final as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide .
क्युकी of इसके ऊँची viewership , वाणिज्यिक airtime दौरान the सुपर  Bowl broadcast is the most expensive of the year .
Due to the high cost of investing in advertising on  the सुपर कटोरी , कंपनियाँ regularly develop उनके सबसे महंगी विज्ञापन लिये इस  broadcast .
As a  परिणाम , watching और discussing the ब्रॉडकास्ट 's commercials रै become  a significant aspect of the event .
In  जोड , अनेक लोकप्रिय गायकों और संगीतकारों have performed  during the event 's pre-game and halftime ceremonies because of the exposure .
Fiona  is a feminine दिए  name .
The name Fiona was invented , and first used , by the Scottish poet James Macpherson (  1736–96 ) , लेखक of the ossian कविताएं , जिससे he claimed यहूद अनुवाद इससे प्राचीन गैलिक स्त्रोत ( स्त्रोत , जब challenged ,  he never produced ) .
The name was subsequently used as a  pseudonym by विलियम शार्प ( 1855–1905 ) , जो authored अनेक रोमांटिक works अंतर्गत the नाम `` फिओना  Macleod '' .
the नाम रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय  in England , Scotland and Ireland .
The name  is माना to be a latinised रूप of the गैलिक शब्द  fionn , meaning `` white '' , `` fair '' .
The name Fiona is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the Irish-language name  fíona , हालांकि ये names हैं वरना unrelated ( as fíona is निकला इससे an तत्व अर्थ  `` vine '' ) .
There is also a modern tendency to  equate the प्रामाणिक स्कॉटिश गैलिक feminine नाम fionnghal साथ फिओना  .
the नाम फिओना is उठती in लोकप्रियता विशेषकर  in German -speaking countries .
Fiona  थी the 49th सबसे लोकप्रिय नाम लिये baby लड़कियों  born in 2008 in Germany .
Fiona was  tied लिये तीसरा प्लेस in the रैंकिंग of सबसे लोकप्रिय names लिये  baby girls born in the tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008 .
The name  थी the 347th सबसे लोकप्रिय नाम लिये लड़कियों born in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 , जहाँ it रै क्रमित among the  top 1,000 most popular names for girls since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999 .
The name Fiona has been particularly popular for girls of Asian or Pacific Islander descent in New York  नगर , जहाँ फिओना क्रमित as the नवीं सबसे लोकप्रिय नाम लिये लड़कियों इससे those समूह in  2007 .
Many languages are  प्रयुक्त , or historically have महरूम प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त  States .
The  सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त भाषा  is English .
There are also many languages  स्वदेशी to उत्तर अमेरिका or to u.S. राज्य or holdings in the प्रशांत  region .
Languages brought to the country by colonists  or आप्रवासियों इससे यूरोपीय , एशिया , or अन्य भाग of the संसार मेक up a विशाल portion of the भाषाएं फिलहाल प्रयुक्त ; अनेक भाषाएं , सहित creoles  and sign languages , have also developed in the United States .
Approximately 337 languages are  बोला or हस्ताक्षरित by the जनसांख्यिकी , of जिससे 176 हैं स्वदेशी  to the area .
Fifty-two languages formerly spoken  in the देश 's territory हैं अभी  extinct .
the किस्में of अंग्रेज़ी बोला in the संयुक्त  States is known as American English .
English is the de facto national language of the United  राज्य , साथ 80 % of the जनसांख्यिकी claiming it as a माँ जीभ , और कुछ 95 % claiming to बोलो it `` खूब  '' or `` very well '' .
However , no  आधिकारिक भाषा exists at the संघीय  level .
There have  महरूम अनेक प्रस्ताव to मेक अंग्रेज़ी the नेशनल भाषा in amendments  to immigration reform bills , but none of these bills has become law with the amendment intact .
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels , with some states mirroring the federal policy of  adopting no आधिकारिक भाषा in a de jure क्षमता , अन्य adopting अंग्रेज़ी अलोन , अन्य officially adopting अंग्रेज़ी as खूब as लोकल भाषाएं , और स्टिल अन्य adopting a नीति of de facto bilingualism  .
स्पेनी is the दूसरी सबसे आम भाषा in the देश ,  and is spoken by over 12 % of the population .
The  संयुक्त राज्य holds the संसार 's पांचवां largest spanish-speaking  population , outnumbered only by Mexico , Spain , Colombia , and Argentina .
throughout the southwestern संयुक्त राज्य , long-established spanish-speaking  communities coexist with large numbers of more recent Hispanophone immigrants .
Although many new Latin American immigrants are less than fluent in English , nearly all  second-generation हिस्पैनिक अमेरिकी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी धड़ल्ले , जबकि तभी परिचय हाफ स्टिल बोलो  Spanish .
According to the 2000 US census , people of German  ancestry मेक up the largest सिंगल जातीय समूह in the संयुक्त राज्य , और the जर्मनी  language ranks fifth .
Italian ,  पॉलिश , और फ्रेंच हैं स्टिल widely बोला among populations descending इससे आप्रवासियों इससे those देशों in the जल्दी 20th सदी , लकिन the उपयोग  of these languages is dwindling as the older generations die .
Russian  is भी बोला by अप्रवासी populations  .
Tagalog  और वियतनामी have over एक लाख अध्यक्षों प्रत्येक in the संयुक्त राज्य , लगभग entirely  within recent immigrant populations .
Both languages , along with the  किस्में of the चाइनीज भाषा , जापानी , और कोरियाई , हैं अभी प्रयुक्त in चुनावों in अलास्का , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , हवाई , इलिनोइस ,  New York , Texas , and Washington .
Native American languages are spoken in smaller pockets of the country , but these populations  हैं अवरोहण , और the भाषाएं हैं लगभग never widely  used outside of reservations .
Hawaiian , although having few native speakers  , is an आधिकारिक भाषा साथ साथ अंग्रेज़ी at the  state level in Hawaii .
The state government of Louisiana  offers सेवाएं और दस्तावेज़ in फ्रेंच , as करता नई मैक्सिको in स्पेनी  .
Besides English , Spanish , French ,  जर्मनी , navajo और अन्य देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं , सब अन्य भाषाएं हैं प्रायः सीखे इससे अप्रवासी  ancestors that came after the time of independence or learned through some form of education .
1990 's  pontiac ग्रैंड am सेडान  fender and quarter panel
On an automobile , a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is  ज्ञात in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी ) is प्रायः माना the देह फलक जिससे goes between the पश्च द्वार और  the trunk and typically wraps around the wheel well ; however , the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ) , between the door and the hood , is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel .
The  क्वार्टर फलक is typically बना of चादर मेटल , लकिन is sometimes बना of fiberglass  or fiber-reinforced plastic ; although , this varies with different makes and models .
A quarter  फलक is typically a welded on घटक of the uni-body ढांचा  or Monocoque .
बदलना of a चादर मेटल क्वार्टर फलक typically requires it to be काटें बंद the  vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle .
Due to this high amount of specialized labor ,  a क्वार्टर फलक may प्रायः be repaired बल्कि than replaced by hammering आउट the क्षति , और a देह फिलर sometimes referred to as  bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface .
shropshire ( or ; alternatively salop ; abbreviated , in छपाई तभी , shrops ) is a काउंटी  in the West Midlands region of England .
It borders Wales to the west ,  चेशायर to the उत्तर , staffordshire to the ईस्ट , वॉस्टरशायर to the south-east और herefordshire  to the south .
A unitary authority ( Shropshire Council ) was created on 1 April 2009 , taking over from the  पिछला काउंटी परिषद और 5 ज़िला councils , और कवर सबसे of the काउंटी  .
The borough of Telford and Wrekin has been a  पृथक एकात्मक प्राधिकार चूंकि 1998 लकिन continues to be  included in the ceremonial county .
The county 's population and economy is centred on  पाँच कस्बों : the काउंटी कस्बा of shrewsbury , जिससे is culturally और historically महत्वपूर्ण और is स्तिथ in the केन्द्र of the काउंटी ; telford , a नई कस्बा in the ईस्ट जिससे थी constructed around a क्रमांक of पुरानी कस्बों , सबसे notably वेलिंगटन , dawley और madeley , जिससे is आज  the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west , Bridgnorth just to the south of Telford , and Ludlow in the south .
The county has many further market  कस्बों , सहित whitchurch in the उत्तर , न्यूपोर्ट बस to the north-east of telford , और  Market Drayton in the north-east of the county .
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a  युनेस्को संसार विरासत साईट , covering ironbridge , coalbrookdale और a भाग of madeley  .
There are , additionally , other notable historic industrial sites located  around the काउंटी , ऐसे as at shrewsbury , broseley , snailbeach और highley as खूब as the shropshire संघ कनाल  .
The Shropshire Hills Area of Outstanding  प्राकृतिक सौंदर्य कवर परिचय a क्वार्टर of the काउंटी , मुख्यतः in the दक्षिण  .
Shropshire is  एक of इंग्लैण्ड 's सबसे ग्रामीण और sparsely आबादी काउंटी , साथ the जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व  of the Shropshire Council area being just 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ) .
The Wrekin  is एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध प्राकृतिक लैंडमार्क in the काउंटी , हालांकि the उच्चतम पहाड़ियाँ  are the Clee Hills , Stiperstones and the Long Mynd .
Wenlock Edge is another significant  भौगोलिक और geological लैंडमार्क .
In the  low-lying उत्तरपश्चिम of the काउंटी ( और अतिव्यापी the किनारा साथ वेल्स ) is the fenn 's , whixall और bettisfield mosses नेशनल प्रकृति आरक्षित , एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और बेहतरीन preserved  bogs in Britain .
The River  severn , ग्रेट ब्रिटेन 's longest नदी , रनों through the काउंटी , exiting into वॉस्टरशायर  via the Severn Valley .
Shropshire  is landlocked , और साथ an क्षेत्रफल of , is इंग्लैण्ड  's largest inland county .
The  काउंटी पुष्प is the round-leaved  sundew .
For Eurostat purposes , the county ( less the  एकात्मक ज़िला of telford और wrekin ) is a nuts 3 प्रदेश  ( code UKG22 ) .
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering all of the  ceremonial काउंटी ) , साथ साथ the अधिकारियों covering the ceremonial काउंटी of staffordshire  , comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region .
The  बिग बंग सिद्धान्त डाल at कॉमिक कॉन 2009 , इससे बाएँ : कुणाल नय्यर , साइमन helberg ,  Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory ,  निर्मित और कार्यपालिका उत्पादित by चक lorre और विधेयक prady , premiered on सीबीएस on सितंबर  24 , 2007 .
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter , two Caltech physicists ; Penny , a waitress and aspiring actress who lives  आरपार the हॉल ; और लियोनार्ड और शेल्डन 's मित्रों और co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर हावर्ड wolowitz , और astrophysicist  Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to  अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ : लेस्ली winkle ( ऋतु 1 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ) , a physicist सहयोगी , और , at अलग टाइम्स , a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ) , a microbiologist , हावर्ड 's fiancée और subsequent बीवी , और पूर्व part-time वेट्रेस alongside पैनी ; neuroscientist  Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The show also features  numerous supporting वर्ण , प्रत्येक of जिसको plays a prominent  role in a small group of episodes .
The A-Team is an American action-adventure television series , running from  1983 to 1987 , परिचय a fictional समूह of ex– संयुक्त राज्य फौज खास शक्तियां कर्मियों जो कार्य as सैनिको of सौभाग्य , जबकि on the चलाएं इससे the फौज बाद होने ब्रांडेड  as war criminals for a `` crime they did n't commit `` .
A  विशेषता फिल्मी आधारित on the श्रेणी थी released  by 20th Century Fox on June 11 , 2010 .
A comic book series ,  a-team : shotgun विवाह , began कूच 9  , 2010 .
Diana Prince is a fictional  अक्षर appearing regularly in कहानियां प्रकाशित by dc  Comics .
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942 ) and serves as  the civilian और रहस्य पहचान of the सुपरहीरो अचरज  Woman .
The character was created by Charles  moulton और हैरी G. पीटर .
Wat Phra  kaew , बैंकॉक , थाईलैंड
There is no official state religion in the Thai constitution , which guarantees  धार्मिक स्वतंत्रता लिये सब थाई नागरिकों , हालांकि the किंग is जरूरी by विधि to  be Buddhist .
according to the पिछला जनसांख्यिकी ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of thais  are Buddhists of the Theravada tradition .
Muslims are the second largest  धार्मिक समूह in थाईलैंड  at 4.6 % .
थाईलैंड 's southernmost प्रांतों - pattani , yala , narathiwat और भाग of songkhla chumphon have  dominant Muslim populations , consisting of both ethnic Thai and Malay .
The southern  टिप of थाईलैंड is ज़्यादातर जातीय  Malays .
ईसाइयों , मुख्यतः catholics , represent  0.7 % of the population .
A small  लकिन influential जातियाँ of सिखों in थाईलैंड और कुछ हिन्दुओं  also live in the country 's cities , and are heavily engaged in retail commerce .
There is also a  छोटी यहूदी जातियाँ in थाईलैंड , डेटिंग  back to the 17th century .
Since 2001 , Muslim activists , generally described by the Thai government as  आतंकवादी or separatists , have rallied विरूद्ध the सेंट्रल सरकारी क्युकी of कथित भ्रष्टाचार और जातीय पूर्वाग्रह on the भाग  of officials .
Thailand 's Department of Religion , currently under the Ministry of  संस्कृति , is formally जिम्मेदार लिये the पंजीकरण of धार्मिक समूह in थाईलैंड url_http जिससे थाम गुण through legally स्थापित मूलाधार  .
It has oversight , along with the Immigration Police , over the work permits of  प्रचारकों जो हैं `` प्रवासी धार्मिक मजदूर '' of सब धर्मों  .
a मान added कर ( vat ) is a  form of consumption tax .
From the  परिप्रेक्ष्य of the खरीदार , it is a कर on  the purchase price .
From that of the  विक्रेता , it is a कर तभी on the मान added to a उत्पाद , सामग्री , or सेवा  , from an accounting point of view , by this stage of its manufacture or distribution .
The manufacturer remits to  the सरकारी the अंतर between ये दो amounts , और retains the बाकी लिये themselves to ऑफसेट the  taxes they had previously paid on the inputs .
The  मान added to a उत्पाद by or साथ a कारोबार is the बिक्री दाम चार्ज to इसके ग्राहक , ऋण  the cost of materials and other taxable inputs .
A VAT is like a sales tax in  कि ultimately तभी the समाप्त उपभोक्ता  is taxed .
It differs from the sales tax in that , with the latter , the tax is  एकत्रित और remitted to the सरकारी तभी एकबार , at the पाइंट of खरीदें by the समाप्त उपभोक्ता  .
With the VAT , collections , remittances to the government , and  क्रेडिट लिये कर already सशुल्क occur प्रत्येक समय a कारोबार in the  supply chain purchases products .
A  रेफरी कॉलिंग a high-sticking  penaltyHigh
-sticking is the  नाम of दो infractions in the खेल of बर्फ हॉकी कि may occur जब a खिलाड़ी intentionally or  inadvertently plays with his or her stick above the height of the shoulders or above the cross bar of a hockey goal .
This can result in a  stoppage of खेल or in a दंड  .
In the rules of the National Hockey League ,  high-sticking is पारिभाषित as a दंड in नियम 60 और as a non-penalty बेईमानी in नियम 80  .
A stoppage in play results if a  ऊँची स्टिक आता in सम्पर्क साथ the पक और the टोली  who touched it regains control of the puck .
However , play usually continues if a player  छू the पक साथ a ऊँची स्टिक और the opposing टोली gains कंट्रोल of the  puck .
If the puck goes into the opposing net  बाद coming into सम्पर्क साथ a ऊँची स्टिक , the लक्ष्य is प्रतिबंधित  .
The level at which a  स्टिक is माना too ऊँची लिये a लक्ष्य  is the crossbar of the net .
However , if a  खिलाड़ी knocks the पक into उसके अपना जाल साथ a ऊँची स्टिक  , the goal is allowed .
A  दंड is assessed if a खिलाड़ी हमलों another  player with a high stick .
The player is given  a नाबालिग दंड जबतक उसके ऊँची स्टिक caused an चोट , in जिससे मामला the रेफरी रै the विकल्प to assess a double-minor  , major or match penalty .
It is the referee 's  discretion जिससे दंड to assess : the नियम काल्स लिये a दोगुना नाबालिग लिये an आकस्मिक चोट , or a मैच दंड लिये a deliberate attempt  to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ) .
Injury is usually decided by the high stick  causing bleeding , लकिन the उपस्थिति of रक्त करता नहीं automatically औसत an अतिरिक्त दंड is  awarded .
Some referees have been known to award an extra  दंड बगैर the उपस्थिति of रक्त if the रेफरी determines कि the चोट sustained  was sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty .
Typical  आधुनिक मेमोरी कार्ड रीडर , संगत  with many common formats
A memory card reader is a device , typically  having a usb इंटरफ़ेस , लिये accessing the आंकड़ा on a मेमोरी कार्ड ऐसे as a compactflash ( cf ) , सुरक्षित डिजिटल (  SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ) .
Most card  पाठक भी प्रस्ताव लिखें काबिलियत , और साथ साथ the कार्ड  , this can function as a pen drive .
Some  मुद्रक और निजी कंप्यूटर  have a built-in card reader .
A multi card  रीडर is प्रयुक्त लिये संचार साथ अधिक than  one type of flash memory card .
Multi card readers do not have built-in memory capacity , but  हैं समर्थ to accept अनेक प्रकार और शैलियाँ of  memory cards .
The number of compatible memory cards  varies इससे रीडर to रीडर और can शामिल अधिक than 20 अलग  types .
The number of  अलग मेमोरी ताश कि a मल्टी कार्ड रीडर can accept is expressed as x-in-1 , साथ x होने a फिगर of मेरिट indicating the क्रमांक  of memory cards accepted , such as 35-in-1 .
वहीँ हैं तीन श्रेणी of कार्ड पाठक sorted by the प्रकार और मात्रा of the कार्ड स्लॉट : सिंगल कार्ड रीडर ( e.g  . 1x SD-only ) , multi card reader ( e.g . 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g . 4x SD only ) .
Some kinds  of मेमोरी ताश साथ उनके अपना usb कृत्यों do नहीं need the कार्ड रीडर  , such as the Intelligent Stick memory card , which can plug directly into a USB slot .
The  usb यंत्र क्लास प्रयुक्त  is 0x08 .
Bullying is  हानिकारक to विद्यार्थी ' well-being और  development .
Bullying is the  उपयोग of फ़ोर्स or coercion to गाली or intimidate  others .
The behavior  can be habitual और involve an असंतुलन of  social or physical power .
It can include verbal harassment or threat , physical assault or coercion  और may be निर्देशित repeatedly towards particular पीड़ितों , शायद on grounds of रेस , धर्म  , gender , sexuality , or ability .
If bullying is  किया by a समूह , it is पुकारा mobbing  .
The victim of  धमकाना is sometimes referred to as a `` निशाना  '' .
Bullying  can be पारिभाषित in अनेक अलग  ways .
The UK  फिलहाल रै no विधिक परिभाषा of धमकाना , जबकि  some U.S. states have laws against it .
Bullying  consists of तीन मौलिक प्रकार of  abuse – emotional , verbal , and physical .
it typically involves हल्का विधि of coercion  such as intimidation .
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one bullying to more complex  धमकाना in जिससे the बुली may have एक or अधिक `` lieutenants '' जो may seem to be willing to assist the प्राथमिक बुली in उसके  or her bullying activities .
Bullying in school and  the कार्यस्थल is भी referred to as पीर  abuse .
Robert W.  फुलर रै analyzed धमकाना in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of  rankism .
A  धमकाना संस्कृति can develop in कोई कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे इंसान beings  interact with each other .
इस शामिल स्कूल , गिरिजाघर , परिवार , the कार्यस्थल  , home , and neighborhoods .
Happy slapping in the  instituto क्षेत्रीय federico errázuriz , सांता  Cruz , Chile
Laura Bush and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing  ) on अप्रैल 4 , 2007 , in ऑस्टिन , टेक्सास , बाद the 8-year-old introduced mrs. बुश दौरान  announcement of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children .
Rae Leigh was the first child in the U.S. to be recovered as a result  of an एम्बर चेतावनी जब वो थी 8 सप्ताह बूढ़ा in  November 1998 .
An AMBER Alert or a Child Abduction Emergency ( SAME code : CAE ) is a child  abduction चेतावनी प्रणाली originating in 1996 , अभी employed in 9 देशों  .
AMBER is officially a backronym for America 's Missing :  प्रसारण आपात जवाब , नामित लिये एम्बर hagerman , a 9-year-old abducted  and murdered in Arlington , Texas in 1996 .
वैकल्पिक क्षेत्रीय चेतावनी names यहूद एकबार प्रयुक्त ; in जॉर्जिया , `` लेवी 's कॉल '' ( नामित बाद लेवी frady ) ; in हवाई , `` maile एम्बर चेतावनी '' ( बाद maile गिल्बर्ट ) ; और अरकंसास , `` मॉर्गन उपनाम एम्बर चेतावनी  '' ( in memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ) .
AMBER Alerts are distributed via commercial radio stations , Internet radio , satellite radio ,  टेलीविज़न स्टेशन , और केबल tv by the आपात चेतावनी प्रणाली और noaa मौसम रेडियो ( जहाँ वे हैं termed  `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ) .
The  चेतावनियाँ हैं भी जारी via e-mail , इलेक्ट्रॉनिक traffic-condition लक्षण , the led billboards जिससे हैं स्तिथ बाहर of नए walgreens स्थितियाँ , साथ साथ the  LED/LCD signs of billboard companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor , CBS Outdoor and Lamar , or through wireless device SMS text messages .
AMBER Alert has also teamed up  साथ google और फेसबुक to रिले सूचना regarding an  AMBER Alert to an ever growing demographic .
Those interested in subscribing to receive AMBER  चेतावनियाँ in उनके क्षेत्रफल via sms संदेश can विज़िट बेतार एम्बर चेतावनियाँ , जिससे हैं offered by विधि as  free messages .
In some  राज्य , the प्रदर्शक scrollboards in सामने of लॉटरी  terminals are also used .
The decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each police  संगठन ( in अनेक मामले , the राज्य पुलिस or राजमार्ग पैट्रोल ) जिससे investigates  each of the abductions .
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of  the नाम और वर्णन of the abductee , a वर्णन of the suspected abductor , और a वर्णन और अनुज्ञा थाली क्रमांक of the abductor 's गाडी ,  if available .
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom  संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having था an `` improper संबंध '' जबकि वो worked at the श्वेत हाउस in 1995  and 1996 .
The affair and its  परखना ( जिससे शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग  ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
House of Night is a series of vampire -themed fantasy novels by  अमरीकी लेखक P. C. डाल और उसके बेटी kristin डाल  .
It follows the adventures of Zoey  redbird , a sixteen-year-old लड़की जो रै बस become a `` fledgling vampyre '' और is जरूरी to attend  the House of Night boarding school in Tulsa , Oklahoma .
The series has been on the New York Times Best Seller  सूची लिये 63 सप्ताह और वहीँ हैं over सात लाख नक़ल in  print in North America alone .
The sixth novel , Tempted , which went on sale on  अक्तूबर 27 , 2009 साथ a पहला मुद्रण of a लाख नक़ल , डाला the यूएसए आज बेस्टसेलर सूची  that week at # 1 .
In January , 2010 , Gezeichnet , a German  अनुवाद of चिह्नित , पहुँचे the # 1 स्पॉट on the der spiegel  bestseller list .
The series has so  दूर बेची अधिक than टेन लाख किताबे in 39 देशों  .
Burned was released on April 27 ,  2010 , और जैसे इम्तिहान , it डाला the यूएसए आज बेस्टसेलर  list that week at # 1 .
awakened , released in जनवरी , 2011 , भी  entered the list at # 1 .
The series ,  जिससे is प्रकाशित by st मार्टिन 's दबायें  is planned to include twelve books .
In  2008 , योजनाएँ लिये a फिल्मी अनुकूलन  were also announced .
The  दसवाँ किताब in the श्रेणी , छुपा , थी  released on October 16 , 2012 .
The second book in the novellas ( which  दे पृष्ठभूमि on supporting वर्ण ) , lenobia 's प्रण , थी released  January 31 , 2012 .
किताब ग्यारह is फिलहाल पुकारा नाज़िल , और the casts have घोषित कि दो अधिक novellas , neferet’s अभिशाप , नियोजित to be released फ़रवरी 19 , 2013  , and a prequel novel about Kalona , are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books .
In Greek  mythology , the trojan युद्ध थी waged विरूद्ध the नगर of ट्रॉय by the achaeans ( यूनानियों ) बाद पेरिस of ट्रॉय took  Helen from her husband Menelaus king of Sparta .
The war is one of the most  महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम in यूनानी mythology और रै महरूम narrated through अनेक works of यूनानी  literature , most notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey .
The Iliad relates a part  of the पिछला साल of the घेरा of ट्रॉय ; the ओडिसी describes odysseus  's journey home .
Other parts of the  युद्ध हैं contained in a साईकिल of एपिक कविताएं , जिससे have बच through  fragments .
Episodes from the war provided  सामग्री लिये यूनानी त्रासदी और अन्य works of यूनानी साहित्य , और लिये रोमन  poets including Virgil and Ovid .
The war originated  इससे a झगड़ा between the देवियाँ एथेना , hera , और aphrodite , बाद eris , the देवी of संघर्ष और अनबन , दिया उन्हें a सुनहरी  apple , sometimes known as the Apple of Discord , marked `` for the fairest '' .
Zeus sent the  देवियाँ to पेरिस , जो judged कि aphrodite , as  the `` fairest '' , should receive the apple .
In exchange , Aphrodite made Helen , the most beautiful  of सब महिलाओं और बीवी of menelaus , पतन in प्रेम साथ पेरिस , जो took उसके to  Troy .
Agamemnon , king of Mycenae and the  bhai of हेलेन 's husband menelaus , led an expedition of achaean सैनिकों to ट्रॉय और besieged the नगर  for ten years because of Paris ' insult .
After  the मौतों of अनेक नायक , सहित the achaeans achilles और अजाक्स , और the ट्रोजन्स हेक्टर और पेरिस  , the city fell to the ruse of the Trojan Horse .
The Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except  लिये कुछ of the महिलाओं और children जिसको वे रखा or बेची as स्लेव ) और desecrated the मंदिरों , यूँ कमाई the  gods ' wrath .
Few of the Achaeans returned safely  to उनके घरों और अनेक संस्थापित colonies  in distant shores .
The Romans later  traced उनके उत्पत्ति to aeneas , एक of the ट्रोजन्स , जो थी कहा  to have led the surviving Trojans to modern-day Italy .
The  प्राचीन यूनानियों विचार कि the trojan युद्ध थी a ऐतिहासिक इवेंट कि था लिया प्लेस in the 13th or 12th सदी  BC , and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles .
By  आधुनिक टाइम्स , दोनो the युद्ध और the नगर यहूद widely believed  to be non-historical .
In 1868 , however , the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann  मिले फ़्रैंक calvert , जो कायल schliemann कि ट्रॉय थी at hissarlik और schliemann took over calvert 's excavations on प्रॉपर्टी  belonging to Calvert ; this claim is now accepted by most scholars .
whether वहीँ is कोई ऐतिहासिक वास्तविकता पीछे  the Trojan War is an open question .
Many scholars believe that there is a historical core to  the टेल , हालांकि इस may बस औसत कि the homeric कहानियां हैं a संलयन of विभिन्न किस्से of sieges और रिझाने by  Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age .
Those who believe that the  कहानियां of the trojan युद्ध हैं निकला इससे a विशिष्ट ऐतिहासिक विरोध प्रायः तिथि it to the 12th or 11th सदियां bc , प्रायः preferring the तिथियाँ दिए by इरैटोस्थनिज़ , 1194–1184 bc , जिससे  roughly corresponds with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy VIIa .
Anarchists  have employed निश्चित प्रतीकों लिये उनके कारण , सहित सबसे prominently the circle-a और the ब्लैक ध्वज , हालांकि anarchists  have historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political movement .
Since the revival of anarchism  around the प्रारंभ of the 21st-century संयुक्त साथ the वृद्धि of the anti-globalization गति , अराजकतावादी सांस्कृतिक  symbols are widely present .
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine  कनाल ) is a ड्योढ़ी in the कपाल कि transmits the वृहद palatine धमनी , रग , और तंत्रिका between the pterygopalatine fossa  and the oral cavity .
Surface temperature of Antarctica in  शीत और गर्मियाँ इससे the यूरोपीय केन्द्र लिये medium-range मौसम  Forecasts
the जलवायु of अंटार्कटिक is  the coldest on the whole of Earth .
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring temperature ever  अंकित on the मैदान on धरती : −89.2 °c ( −128.6 °f ) at वोस्तोक  Station .
It is also extremely dry (  technically a मरुस्थल ) , averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of वर्षण  per year .
Even so ,  on सबसे भाग of the महाद्वीप the हिम rarely melts और is आखिरकार संपीडित to become the glacial बर्फ कि  makes up the ice sheet .
Weather  fronts rarely घुस दूर into the  continent .
Most of Antarctica has  an बर्फ कैप जलवायु ( köppen ef ) साथ बहुत ठंडा , generally अत्यधिक शुष्क मौसम throughout the साल  and no month averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ) .
Some fringe  तटीय क्षेत्रों have a टुण्ड्रा जलवायु ( köppen et ) साथ a छोटी गर्मियाँ averaging ऊपर जमने  , and much higher precipitation .
Current  सिर कोच माइक tomlin ,  during the 2007 season
The Pittsburgh  स्टीलर्स मताधिकार रै था 16 सिर कोच  throughout its history .
Founded as the  पिट्सबर्ग pirates in , the नाम थी बदला to the स्टीलर्स prior to the ऋतु to  celebrate the city 's heritage of producing steel .
Joe Bach  परोसा दो पृथक शर्तें as सिर कोच और वॉल्ट kiesling परोसा  three separate terms .
During the and seasons ,  due to the राशि of खिलाड़ी जो लड़ा in संसार युद्ध ii , the स्टीलर्स संयुक्त उनके टोली साथ फिलाडेल्फिया और शिकागो , क्रमशः  .
During these  सीज़न , स्टीलर्स ' कोच वॉल्ट kiesling साझा कोचिंग कर्तव्य साथ चिकनी neale और फिल हैंडलर  , who have not been included within this list .
Struggling for much of the  मताधिकार 's जल्दी सालो , the टोली 's पहला ऋतु साथ अधिक विन्स than नुकसान थी coached by jock sutherland  in .
In ,  अंतर्गत sutherland , the स्टीलर्स निभाई उनके पहला playoff  game against the Philadelphia Eagles .
Ten of the 16 head coaches spent their entire professional coaching  करियर साथ the मताधिकार , सहित जॉन mcnally , वॉल्ट kiesling और चक noll , जो have भी महरूम voted into the प्रो फ़ुटबॉल  Hall of Fame .
One  of तभी चार मेन to कोच the वही टोली  for 23 years , Chuck Noll retired in .
Noll is also  the तभी कोच in नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग इतिहास  to win four Super Bowls .
Bill Cowher , Noll 's  बदलना , coached the स्टीलर्स to उनके पांचवां सुपर कटोरी  victory , in 2005 .
The  स्टीलर्स छठे सुपर कटोरी जीत आए in सुपर कटोरी xliii , जबकि सिर coached  by Mike Tomlin , the team 's current head coach .
In criminal  विधि , धोखाधड़ी is जानबूझकर deception बना लिये निजी लाभ or to क्षति another व्यक्तिगत ; the सम्बन्धित  adjective is fraudulent , and verb is defraud .
Fraud is a  अपराधों और a सिविल विधि उल्लंघन , हालांकि the विशिष्ट दण्ड विधि परिभाषा  varies by legal jurisdiction .
Defrauding  लोगों or entities of धन or valuables is a आम  purpose of fraud .
A hoax also involves  deception , लकिन बगैर the इरादे of लाभ or of damaging  or depriving the victim .
Fraud is a defense in a civil action  लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन of a अनुबंध  .
Fraud is a  आधार लिये निष्पक्ष क्षेत्राधिकार  .
Passover , or Pesach (  इससे : in यहूदी , यहूदी ) , tiberian : , आधुनिक यहूदी : /ˈpesaχ/ pesah , pesakh , यहूदी : peysekh , paysakh  , Paysokh ) is an important Biblically -derived Jewish festival .
Historically , together with Shavuot ( ``  पेंटेकोस्ट '' ) और sukkot ( `` झोपड़ियों '' ) , passover is एक of the तीन यात्राएं त्यौहार ( shalosh regalim ) दौरान जिससे  the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem .
Samaritans still make this pilgrimage to  माउंट gerizim , लकिन तभी मेन participate in पब्लिक इबादत  .
Passover  commences on the 15th of the यहूदी माह of nisan और lasts लिये either सात दिनों ( in इसराईल  ) or eight days ( in the diaspora ) .
In Judaism , a day  commences at संध्या और lasts जबतक the following संध्या , यूँ the पहला दिन of passover तभी begins बाद संध्या of the 14th of nisan और ends at  dusk of the 15th day of the month of Nisan .
The rituals unique to the Passover celebrations commence  साथ the passover seder जब the 15th of nisan रै begun  .
In the  उत्तरी गोलार्ध passover takes प्लेस in वसन्त as the तोरा prescribes it : `` in the माह  of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ) .
It is one of the most widely  observed यहूदी छुट्टियाँ  .
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a  commemoration of उनके मुक्ति over 3,300 सालो पहले by परमेश्वर इससे गुलामी in प्राचीन मिश्र कि थी शासित by the pharaohs , और उनके जनम as a स्वदेश अंतर्गत  the leadership of Moses .
It  commemorates the स्टोरी of the exodus as वर्णित in the यहूदी  Bible especially in the Book of Exodus , in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt .
In the narrative of the Exodus , the Bible tells that  परमेश्वर helped the children of इसराईल एस्केप इससे उनके गुलामी in मिश्र by inflicting टेन plagues upon  the ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born .
The Israelites were instructed to mark the doorposts of  उनके घरों साथ the रक्त of a slaughtered वसन्त मेमने और , upon देखकर इस , the स्पिरिट of the रब  knew to pass over the first-born in these homes , hence the name of the holiday .
There is  कुछ बहस over जहाँ the पद is दरअसल  derived from .
जब the pharaoh freed the israelites , it is कहा कि वे बाएँ in ऐसे a hurry कि वे could  not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ) .
In  commemoration , लिये the अवधि of passover no leavened ब्रैड is खाया , लिये जिससे  reason it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread '' .
Thus  matzo ( चपटा unleavened ब्रैड ) is खाया दौरान  Passover and it is a symbol of the holiday .
Halley 's Comet or Comet  हैली ( or ) , officially designated 1p/halley , is the best-known of the short-period धूमकेतुओं और is दृश्य  from Earth every 75–76 years .
Halley is  the तभी short-period धूमकेतु कि is clearly दृश्य to the नग्न नजर इससे धरती , और यूँ the तभी naked-eye  comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime .
Other  naked-eye धूमकेतुओं may be उज्जवल और अधिक spectacular , लकिन होगा  appear only once in thousands of years .
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System  have महरूम observed और अंकित by खगोलशास्त्रियों चूंकि at तनिक 240  BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made  by चाइनीज , babylonian , और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय chroniclers , लकिन यहूद नहीं पहचाना as reappearances  of the same object at the time .
The comet 's  periodicity थी पहला संकल्पित in 1705 by  English astronomer Edmond Halley , after whom it is now named .
हैली 's धूमकेतु पिछला appeared in the भीतरी सौर प्रणाली in 1986  and will next appear in mid-2061 .
During its 1986 apparition , Halley became  the पहला धूमकेतु to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft , providing the पहला observational आंकड़ा on the ढांचा of  a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations  समर्थित a क्रमांक of longstanding hypotheses परिचय धूमकेतु निर्माण , विशेषकर फ्रेड whipple 's `` गंदा स्नोबॉल '' मॉडल , जिससे correctly पूर्वानुमानित कि हैली होता  be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The  मिशन भी provided आंकड़ा जिससे substantially reformed और reconfigured ये विचार ; लिये उदाहरण it is अभी  understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that only a small portion of it is icy .
anti-communism is विपक्ष to साम्यवादी  .
Organized anti-communism  विकसित in प्रतिक्रिया to the वृद्धि of साम्यवादी , विशेषकर बाद the 1917 अक्तूबर क्रान्ति in रूस  and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War .
Most anti-communists reject the  अवधारणा of ऐतिहासिक भौतिकवाद , जिससे is a सेंट्रल विचार  in Marxism .
Anti-communists  अस्वीकृत the मार्क्सवादी विश्वास कि पूंजीवाद होगा be followed by समाजवादी और साम्यवादी  , just as feudalism was followed by capitalism .
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist claim  कि the समाजवादी राज्य होगा `` wither दूर '' जब it becomes अनावश्यक  in a true communist society .
Anti-communists  argue कि the दमन in the जल्दी सालो of bolshevik नियम , जबकि नहीं as चरम as कि दौरान जोसेफ स्टालिन 's नियम , थी स्टिल कठोर by उचित मानकों , citing उदाहरण ऐसे as फेलिक्स dzerzhinsky  's secret police , which eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions , and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion .
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism and fascism as  सर्वसत्तावाद , देखकर समानता between the क्रियाएँ of कम्युनिस्ट और फासिस्ट  governments .
इतिहासकार रॉबर्ट conquest रै argued कि साम्यवादी थी जिम्मेदार  for tens of millions of deaths during the 20th century .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि कम्युनिस्ट पार्टियों कि have आइये to शक्ति have  tended to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition .
These opponents claim  कि सबसे कम्युनिस्ट देशों have दिखाया no लक्षण of advancing  from Marx 's socialist stage of economy to an ideal communist stage .
Rather , Communist governments have been accused of creating a new  सत्ताधारी क्लास ( a nomenklatura ) , साथ शक्तियां और privileges वृहद than those previously enjoyed by the अपर वर्ग in the non-  communist regimes .
Gil Heron ( 9 April  1922 – 27 नवम्बर 2008 ) थी a jamaican  professional footballer .
He was the first black player to play for Scottish club  सेल्टिक , और थी the पिता of कवि और संगीतकार gil scott-heron  .
He died in  डेट्रॉयट of a दिल आक्रमण  on 27 November 2008 .
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( UK ) (  glycine अधिकतम ) is a प्रजाति of legume देशी to ईस्ट एशिया , widely grown लिये इसके खाद्य  bean which has numerous uses .
The plant is  classed as an oilseed बल्कि than a पल्स by the un खाना  and Agricultural Organization ( FAO ) .
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant  और सस्ती सोर्स of प्रोटीन लिये एनिमल फ़ीड्स और अनेक prepackaged meals ; सोया सब्ज़ी आयल is another उत्पाद of प्रसंस्करण the सोयाबीन  crop .
For example ,  सोयाबीन उत्पाद ऐसे as textured सब्ज़ी प्रोटीन ( tvp ) हैं संघटक  in many meat and dairy analogues .
Soybeans produce  significantly अधिक प्रोटीन प्रति एकड़ than  most other uses of land .
Traditional nonfermented food uses  of soybeans शामिल सोया मिल्क , और इससे the latter  tofu and tofu skin .
Fermented foods  शामिल सोया सॉस , fermented सेम paste , natto , और  tempeh , among others .
The oil is used  in अनेक औद्योगिक अनुप्रयोग  .
The main producers of soy  हैं the संयुक्त राज्य ( 35 % ) , ब्राज़ील ( 27 % ) , अर्जेंटीना ( 19 % ) , चीन ( 6 % ) और इण्डिया  ( 4 % ) .
The beans contain  significant amounts of phytic एसिड , alpha-linolenic  acid , and isoflavones .
Harrison Ford ( born July 13 ,  1942 ) is an अमरीकी फिल्मी कर्ता और निर्माता  .
He is famous for his performances as Han Solo in the original Star  युद्धों त्रयी और the शीर्षक अक्षर of the इंडियाना जोन्स फिल्मी श्रेणी .
Ford is also known for his roles as Rick Deckard in Blade Runner , John  किताब in गवाह और जोकर रयान in patriot खेल और साफ और  Present Danger .
His career has spanned six  दशकों और शामिल भूमिकाएँ in अनेक हॉलीवुड blockbusters , सहित presumed निर्दोष  , The Fugitive , Air Force One , and What Lies Beneath .
At one point ,  चार of the शीर्ष छह box-office हिट्स of सब समय शामिल एक of उसके  roles .
पाँच of उसके films have महरूम inducted into  the National Film Registry .
In 1997 , Ford was ranked No . 1 in Empire `` The  शीर्ष 100 फिल्म सितारों of सब समय '' सूची  .
, the United States domestic box office grosses  of घाट 's films कुल over us $ 3.5 अरब , साथ विश्वव्यापी grosses surpassing $ 6 अरब , बनाना घाट the तीसरा उच्चतम grossing u.S. घरेलू  box-office star .
Ford is the  husband of अभिनेत्री calista flockhart  .
a ट्यूब of chapstick
ChapStick is a brand name for  लिप बाम manufactured by फाइजर उपभोक्ता healthcare और  used in many countries worldwide .
It is  intended to सहायता दावत और prevent  chapped lips ; hence the name .
Many  किस्में भी शामिल सनस्क्रीन in अनुक्रम to prevent  sunburn .
Due to its  लोकप्रियता , the पद रै become a  genericized trademark .
It popularly refers to any lip balm  contained in a lipstick-style ट्यूब और लागू in the वही manner  as lipstick .
However , the term is still a  पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क , साथ अधिकारों exclusively स्वामित्व by  Pfizer .
In Sweden and in the United Kingdom ,  the उत्पाद 's प्रमुख प्रतिस्पर्धी is lypsyl , बना by novartis उपभोक्ता स्वास्थ्य , जिससे is वितरित in समान पैकेजिंग to chapstick  .
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January  1753 ) , भी ज्ञात as बिशप बर्कली ( बिशप of cloyne ) , थी an anglo-irish पारस जिनकी प्राथमिक  achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ) .
This  सिद्धान्त झुठलाए the अस्तित्व of सामग्री पदार्थ और बजाय contends कि परिचित वस्तुएँ जैसे टेबल और  chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers , and as a result can not exist without being perceived .
Thus , as Berkeley  famously put it , लिये शारीरिक वस्तुएँ `` esse est percipi  '' ( `` to be is to be perceived `` ) .
Berkeley  is भी ज्ञात लिये उसके critique of abstraction , an महत्वपूर्ण  premise in his argument for immaterialism .
In 1709 , Berkeley published his first major work , , in which he discussed the limitations of human vision and advanced the theory  कि the उचित वस्तुएँ of sight हैं नहीं सामग्री वस्तुएँ , लकिन लाइट और रंग  .
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge in 1710 which , after its poor reception ,  he rewrote in संवाद रूप और प्रकाशित अंतर्गत the शीर्षक तीन संवाद between hylas और philonous in 1713  .
In this book , Berkeley 's views were represented by Philonous (  यूनानी : 'प्रेमr of दिमाग ' ) , जबकि hylas ( यूनानी : 'मैटr ' ) embodies the आयरिश thinker’s प्रतिद्वंद्वियों , in particular जॉन locke  .
Berkeley argued against Sir  इसहाक़ न्यूटन 's doctrine of निरपेक्ष स्पेस , समय और गति in de मोटू  ( on Motion ) , published 1721 .
His arguments  यहूद a precursor to the दृश्य of mach और आइंस्टीन  .
In 1732 , he published Alciphron , a Christian apologetic  विरूद्ध the free-thinkers , और in 1734 , he प्रकाशित the विश्लेषक , an empiricist critique of the मूलाधार of infinitesimal  calculus , which was influential in the development of mathematics .
His last major philosophical work ,  siris ( 1744 ) , begins by वकालत the औषधीय उपयोग of तारकोल जल , और तब continues  to discuss a wide range of topics including science , philosophy , and theology .
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War II , because he  tackled अनेक of the मुद्दे of सर्वोपरि ब्याज to दर्शनशास्त्र in the 20th सदी ऐसे as the समस्याएं of बोध , the अंतर between प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक qualities , और the महत्व of भाषा  .
Qingdao ( ) , historically known as Tsingtao , is a major city in eastern Shandong  प्रांत , पूर्वी चीन , साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of over 8.715 लाख  ( 2010 census ) .
Its built  up क्षेत्रफल , बना of 6 शहरी जिले और 4 county-level शहरों  , is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010 .
It  सीमायें yantai to the पूर्वोत्तर ,  Weifang to the west and Rizhao to the southwest .
Qīng ( ) in Chinese means `` green  '' or `` रसीले '' , जबकि dǎo ( ) अर्थात्  `` island '' .
चिंगदाओ is administered at the sub-provincial  level .
Lying  आरपार the शानदोंग प्रायद्वीप जबकि looking आउट to the पीला समुद्र , चिंगदाओ is a प्रमुख  seaport , naval base , and industrial centre .
It is also  the साईट of the tsingtao ब्रेवरी  .
The world 's  longest समुद्र सेतु , the चिंगदाओ haiwan सेतु , कड़ी the प्रमुख शहरी क्षेत्रफल of चिंगदाओ साथ huangdao ज़िला , straddling  the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas .
Qingdao is named  चीन 's सबसे livable नगर .
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified species named  acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( apmv ) , or is a समूह of phylogenetically सम्बन्धित विशाल वाइरस ( designated  usually MimiN ) .
In colloquial speech , APMV is more  commonly referred to as बस `` mimivirus  '' .
Until October 2011 ,  जब a larger वायरस megavirus chilensis  was described , it had the largest capsid diameter of all known viruses .
mimivirus रै a विशाल और जटिल genome compared  with most other viruses .
mimivirus , छोटी लिये `` mimicking microbe '' , is so पुकारा to प्रतिबिंबित  its large size and apparent Gram-staining properties .
The Mexican War of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed conflict between the people of  मैक्सिको और the स्पेनी औपनिवेशिक अधिकारियों जिससे प्रारंभ on सितंबर  16 , 1810 .
The movement , which became known as the Mexican War of Independence , was led by  mexican-born spaniards , mestizos और amerindians जो sought स्वतंत्रता इससे स्पेन  .
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against their  औपनिवेशिक मास्टर्स , लकिन ended as an असंभावित गठबंधन between मैक्सिकन ex-royalists और मैक्सिकन छापामार insurgents  .
Crohn 's disease , also  ज्ञात as crohn सिंड्रोम और क्षेत्रीय enteritis , is a प्रकार of जलन bowel बीमारी कि may affect कोई भाग of the जठरांत्र  tract from mouth to anus , causing a wide variety of symptoms .
It primarily causes abdominal pain , diarrhea ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at its  worst ) , उल्टी ( can be निरन्तर ) , or वज़न घाटा , लकिन may भी कारण जटिलताओं बाहर the जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट ऐसे as  skin rashes , arthritis , inflammation of the eye , tiredness , and lack of concentration .
Crohn 's  बीमारी is caused by interactions between पर्यावरणीय , immunological और  bacterial factors in genetically susceptible individuals .
This results  in a दीर्घकालिक जलन विकार , in जिससे the देह 's प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली हमले the जठरांत्र  tract possibly directed at microbial antigens .
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been described as an autoimmune  बीमारी in the पास्ट ; हाल जांचकर्ताओं have वर्णित it as an प्रतिरक्षा कमियां  state .
There is a genetic  संघ साथ crohn 's बीमारी , primarily साथ विसंगतियाँ of the  NOD2 gene and its protein , which senses bacterial cell walls .
सहोदर of प्रभावित individuals  are at higher risk .
Males and females are  बराबर प्रभावित .
Smokers are two times more likely to  develop crohn 's बीमारी than nonsmokers  .
Crohn  's बीमारी affects between 400,000 और 600,000  people in North America .
Prevalence estimates for Northern Europe  have ranged इससे 27–48 प्रति 100,000  .
Crohn 's disease tends to present  initially in the किशोर और twenties , साथ another शिखर incidence in the fifties to seventies , हालांकि the बीमारी  can occur at any age .
There is no known pharmaceutical or  सर्जिकल इलाज़ लिये crohn 's बीमारी  .
Treatment options are restricted  to controlling लक्षण , maintaining remission , और preventing  relapse .
The disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn , who , in 1932 , together with two other colleagues at Mount Sinai Hospital in New  यॉर्क , वर्णित a श्रेणी of मरीजों साथ सूजन of the टर्मिनल ileum , the क्षेत्रफल सबसे commonly प्रभावित by the बीमारी  .
This is  an अधूरी सूची of the tallest  buildings and structures by country .
The list directly includes the tallest buildings and structures for each country , and where appropriate , it also points  to अधिक विस्तृत country-specific सूचियाँ  .
Rough and Ready is a census-designated  प्लेस in नेवाडा काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त राज्य  .
It is  स्तिथ वेस्ट of ग्रास घाटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , लगभग  62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 963 at  the 2010 census .
YouTube is a  video-sharing जालस्थल , निर्मित by तीन पूर्व paypal कर्मचारी in फ़रवरी 2005 , on  which users can upload , view and share videos .
The company is based in San Bruno , California ,  और उपयोग adobe फ्लैश वीडियो और html5 प्रौद्योगिकी to प्रदर्शक a चौड़ी किस्में of user-generated वीडियो सामग्री , सहित फिल्म क्लिप्स  , TV clips , and music videos , as well as amateur content such as video blogging , short original videos , and educational videos .
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals , although media  corporations सहित सीबीएस , the बीबीसी , vevo , hulu , और अन्य संगठन प्रस्ताव कुछ  of their material via the site , as part of the YouTube partnership program .
Unregistered users can  देखें वीडियो , जबकि पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता can अपलोड an  unlimited number of videos .
Videos considered to contain  potentially अप्रिय सामग्री हैं उपलब्धियाँ तभी to पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता at तनिक  18 years old .
In November 2006 , YouTube , LLC was  खरीदा by google लिये us $ 1.65 अरब , और operates as a subsidiary of google  .
Sister Act is a musical written by Cheri Steinkellner  और विधेयक steinkellner साथ अतिरिक्त किताब सामग्री by डगलस कार्टर beane , साथ गीत by ग्लेन स्लेटर और म्यूज़िक  by Alan Menken .
It is based on  the hit 1992 फिल्मी कॉमेडी of the वही  name .
The 2009 West End production  थी उत्पादित by स्टेज entertainment , whoopi गोल्डबर्ग , और माइकल रेनो  for Sis Acts LLC .
गोल्डबर्ग is भी a निर्माता of the 2011  Broadway adaptation .
Microsoft DirectX is a collection  of अनुप्रयोग प्रोग्रामिंग अंतरफलक ( api ) लिये हैंडलिंग कार्य सम्बन्धित to मल्टीमीडिया , विशेषकर खेल  programming and video , on Microsoft platforms .
Originally , the  names of ये api सब began साथ सीधा , ऐसे as direct3d , directdraw , directmusic , directplay , directsound  , and so forth .
The name DirectX was coined as  आशुलिपि पद लिये सब of ये api ( the x खड़ा in लिये the particular api  names ) and soon became the name of the collection .
When Microsoft later set out to develop a gaming console , the X was used as  the आधार of the नाम एक्सबॉक्स to indicate कि the कंसोल थी आधारित on डाइरेक्टएक्स  technology .
The X initial has been carried forward in the naming of APIs designed for the Xbox such as XInput and the Cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ) , while  the डाइरेक्टएक्स पैटर्न रै महरूम जारी लिये खिड़कियाँ api  such as Direct2D and DirectWrite .
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely  प्रयुक्त in the विकास of वीडियो खेल लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ , microsoft एक्सबॉक्स , microsoft एक्सबॉक्स 360 और कुछ sega dreamcast  games .
Direct3D is also used by other software applications for visualization  और ग्राफिक्स कार्य ऐसे as cad/cam अभियान्त्रिकी .
As  direct3d is the सबसे widely publicized घटक of डाइरेक्टएक्स , it is  common to see the names `` DirectX '' and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably .
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in  redistributable शब्दकोष रूप , साथ साथ accompanying दस्तावेज़ीकरण और headers लिये उपयोग in कोडिंग  .
Originally , the runtimes were only  संस्थापित by खेल or explicitly by the उपयोक्ता  .
खिड़कियाँ 95 किया नहीं लॉन्च साथ डाइरेक्टएक्स , लकिन डाइरेक्टएक्स थी शामिल साथ  Windows 95 OEM Service Release 2 .
Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0 both shipped with  डाइरेक्टएक्स , as रै प्रत्येक संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ released चूंकि  .
The SDK is  उपलब्धियाँ as a फ़्री डाउनलोड  .
While  the runtimes हैं मालिकाना , closed-source तन्त्र  , source code is provided for most of the SDK samples .
Starting with the  रिलीज of खिड़कियाँ 8 डेवलपर पूर्वावलोकन , डाइरेक्टएक्स sdk  has been integrated into Windows SDK .
Direct3D 9Ex , Direct3D 10 , and Direct3D 11 are only available for Windows Vista and newer because  प्रत्येक of ये नई संस्करण थी निर्मित to निर्भर upon the नई खिड़कियाँ प्रदर्शक ड्राइवर मॉडल कि थी introduced लिये खिड़कियाँ विस्टा  .
The  नई vista/wddm ग्राफिक्स वास्तुकला शामिल a नई वीडियो मेमोरी मैनेजर supporting आभासीकरण of  graphics hardware for various applications and services like the Desktop Window Manager .
Quetzaltenango , also commonly  ज्ञात by इसके स्वदेशी नाम , xelajú , or अधिक commonly , xela , is the दूसरी largest  city of Guatemala .
It is both the capital of Quetzaltenango Department and  the नगरपालिका सीट of quetzaltenango नगरपालिका .
It has  an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी  of 224,703 .
The population is about  61 % स्वदेशी or amerindian , 34 % मेस्टिज़ो or ladino  and 5 % European .
Quetzaltenango is located in a  पहाड़ घाटी at an उन्नयन of 2,330 मीटर ( 7,655 ft ) ऊपर समुद्र  level at its lowest part .
It may  पहुँचें ऊपर 2,400 मीटर भीतर the  city .
The  नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango consists  of an area of .
municipalities abutting the नगरपालिका of quetzaltenango शामिल : salcajá , cantel , almolonga ,  Zunil , El Palmar , Concepción Chiquirichapa , San Mateo , La Esperanza , Olintepeque , and San Andrés Xecul .
All these municipalities are part of the Department  of quetzaltenango , मगर सैन आन्द्रेस xecul जिससे is a भाग of the विभाग of  Totonicapán .
The Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is  amongst the earliest surviving works of साहित्य .
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five  स्वतंत्र sumerian कविताएं परिचय 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian लिये  Gilgamesh ) , king of Uruk .
Four of these were used as  सोर्स सामग्री लिये a संयुक्त एपिक in अक्कादी .
This first combined epic , known as the `` Old Babylonian ''  संस्करण , तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is titled बाद इसके incipit , shūtur एली sharrī  ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a few  fragments of it have बच  .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to  the 10th सदियां bc और bears the incipit शा naqba  īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this  longer , twelve-tablet संस्करण have महरूम बरामद  .
Some of the best copies were discovered in the  पुस्तकालयों तबाह of the 7th-century bc assyrian किंग  Ashurbanipal .
The story  centers on a दोस्ती between gilgamesh  and Enkidu .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as  gilgamesh 's बराबर to distract उसे इससे oppressing the लोगों of uruk  .
Together , they journey to the Cedar  पहाड़ to शिकस्त humbaba , इसके monstrous संरक्षक .
Later they kill the Bull of  स्वर्ग , जिससे the देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा gilgamesh लिये spurning उसके  advances .
As a punishment for  ये क्रियाएँ , the देवताओं वाक्य enkidu  to death .
The second half of the epic focuses on  gilgamesh 's तकलीफ at enkidu 's मौत , और उसके  quest for immortality .
In order to learn  the रहस्य of अनन्त जीवन , gilgamesh undertakes a long और perilous यात्रा  .
He learns that `` The life  कि तुम हैं seeking तुम होगा never ढूँढें  .
When the  देवताओं निर्मित man वे आवंटित to उसे मौत , लकिन जीवन वे retained  in their own keeping . ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old  babylonian संस्करण of the एपिक , और तब attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim in the  Akkadian version of the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death , because of his great  भवन प्रोजेक्ट , और उसके खाता of कया utnapishtim बताई उसे happened दौरान  the flood .
the स्टोरी रै महरूम अनूदित into अनेक अलग भाषाएं , और  Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction .
There are  numerous debates over जो निर्मित the पहला वीडियो खेल , साथ the जवाब  depending largely on how video games are defined .
The  एवोल्यूशन of वीडियो खेल represents a उलझे वेब of अनेक अलग उद्योग , सहित  scientific , computer , arcade , and consumer electronics .
The ``  वीडियो '' in `` वीडियो खेल `` traditionally refers to a रास्टर  display device .
With the  लोकप्रिय कैच phrase उपयोग of the पद `` वीडियो खेल '' , the पद अभी  implies all display types , formats , and platforms .
Historians have  भी sought to बायपास the समस्या by बजाय using the अधिक विशिष्ट `` डिजिटल खेल  '' descriptive .
This term leaves  आउट the पहले analog-based  computer games .
This is a list of  best-selling वीडियो खेल franchises कि have बेची or shipped at  least 5 million copies .
Unless otherwise  stated , संख्याएँ indicate विश्वव्यापी इकाई बेची , ordered alphabetically whenever दो or अधिक  list the same amount .
The exception are the ones specifying  शिपमेंट , जिससे have निम्नतर पूर्वता than अन्य लिस्टिंग बिक्री  .
मताधिकार बिक्री शामिल विस्तार पैक भी हालांकि वे हैं  not considered full video games .
For best-selling  व्यक्तिगत वीडियो खेल , देखिए सूची  of best-selling video games .
The sales figures given below do not include arcade game sales , which  can be मिला at सूची of highest-grossing  arcade video games .
– This  रंग indicates a sub-series of a larger वीडियो  game franchise .
This does not necessarily  लागू लिये श्रेणी कि हैं नहीं वीडियो game-based .
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards ( September 1 , 1933 – September 13 ,  2006 ) थी an अमरीकी राजनेता और the 45th राज्यपाल of टेक्सास  .
She first came to national  ध्यान as the राज्य कोषाध्यक्ष of टेक्सास , जब वो वितरित the  keynote address at the 1988 Democratic National Convention .
Richards  परोसा as the 45th राज्यपाल of टेक्सास इससे 1991 to 1995 और थी पराजित  for re-election in 1994 by George W. Bush .
Ann  रिचर्ड्स थी the दूसरी मादा  governor of Texas .
Data Execution Prevention (  dep ) is a सुरक्षा विशेषता शामिल in आधुनिक ऑपरेटिंग  systems .
It is known to be available in Linux , Mac OS X ,  आईओएस , microsoft खिड़कियाँ और एंड्रॉइड ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों और is intended to prevent an अनुप्रयोग or सेवा इससे निष्पादित  code from a non-executable memory region .
This  helps prevent निश्चित कारनामे कि स्टोर कोड  via a buffer overflow , for example .
DEP runs in two  मोड्स : hardware-enforced dep लिये cpu कि can चिह्नित मेमोरी पृष्ठों as nonexecutable , और software-enforced dep साथ सीमित सुरक्षा  for CPUs that do not have hardware support .
software-enforced dep करता नहीं protect विरूद्ध निष्पादन of कोड  in data pages , but instead counters SEH overwrite , another type of attack .
DEP was introduced on  लिनक्स in 2004 ( कर्नेल 2.6.8 ) , on खिड़कियाँ in 2004 साथ खिड़कियाँ xp सेवा पैक 2 , जबकि ठहराना introduced  DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006 .
Example  उदाहरण of दो आम futanari  variants
, is the Japanese word for  hermaphroditism , जिससे is भी प्रयुक्त in a broader भाव लिये androgyny  .
Beyond Japan  the पद is प्रयुक्त to describe a commonly pornographic विधा of कंप्यूटर खेल ,  comics and animations , which includes characters that show both primary sexual characteristics .
But in today 's language it refers almost  exclusively लिये वर्ण जो have an overall feminine  appearance .
In that case the  पद is भी प्रायः abbreviated as futa ( s ) , जिससे is occasionally  also used as term for the works itself .
Early CAPTCHAs  ऐसे as ये , उत्पन्न by the ez-gimpy  program , were used on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA ,  बल्कि than attempting to बनाएँ a distorted पृष्ठभूमि और ऊँची स्तर of warping on the टेक्स्ट , might फ़ोकस on  making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line .
Another way to make segmentation difficult is to crowd  प्रतीकों साथ , as in याहू ! 's वर्तमान  CAPTCHA format .
Some CAPTCHAs try  to utilize the क्षमता of लोगों  to see three-dimensional objects .
On  इस चित्र , प्रतीकों हैं drawn साथ लाइनों of  different thickness to make an effect of extrusion .
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response test used in computing  as an attempt to ensure कि the जवाब is उत्पन्न by a इंसान होने  .
The process  प्रायः involves a कंप्यूटर पूछे a उपयोक्ता to पूरा a सरल परीक्षण जिससे the कंप्यूटर is समर्थ  to grade .
These tests are  designed to be आसान लिये a कंप्यूटर to generate लकिन मुश्किल लिये a कंप्यूटर to solve , लकिन  again easy for a human .
If a correct solution is  प्राप्त , it can be presumed to have महरूम डाला  by a human .
A common type of CAPTCHA  requires the उपयोक्ता to प्रकार अक्षर and/or अंक इससे a distorted चित्र कि appears  on the screen .
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites , since a normal human  can easily पढ़ा a captcha , जबकि the bot can नहीं प्रक्रम the चित्र अक्षर और इसलिए , can नहीं जवाब properly , or at सब  .
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated , many of them have become difficult even  लिये a इंसान to पढ़ा , so चित्र captchas यहूद निर्मित in जिससे a इंसान is दिखाया a सरल परीक्षण to दिखाएँ a चित्र of a निश्चित एनिमल ( दिए few एनिमल तस्वीरें ) , जिससे is सरल लिये a इंसान होने to प्रक्रम , और इसलिए आसान to चुनें , जबकि a bot can नहीं प्रक्रम और solve the सवाल  because although it can analyze the picture , it can not easily guess the animal .
The term  `` captcha '' थी coined in 2000 by लुइस वोन ahn , मैनुएल ब्लम , निकोलस  J. Hopper , and John Langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ) .
It is an acronym based on the word ``  कैप्चर '' और खड़ा लिये `` completely स्वचालित पब्लिक turing परीक्षण  to tell Computers and Humans Apart '' .
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to trademark the term on 15  अक्तूबर 2004 , लकिन the ट्रेडमार्क अनुप्रयोग थी abandoned on 21 अप्रैल  2008 .
A CAPTCHA is sometimes  वर्णित as a रिवर्स turing परीक्षण , क्युकी it is administered by a यंत्र और targeted at a इंसान  , in contrast to the standard Turing test that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine .
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in English as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval officer , explorer ,  conservationist , फिल्मकार , innovator , वैज्ञानिक , फ़ोटोग्राफ़र , लेखक और शोधकर्ता जो पढ़ाई the समुद्र और सब फ़ॉर्म of जीवन in  water .
He  co-developed the aqua-lung , pioneered समुद्री संरक्षण और थी a सदस्य  of the Académie française .
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a fast  खाना रेस्तरां कड़ी headquartered in louisville , केंटकी  , United States , which specializes in fried chicken .
An `` American icon '' , it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain  overall ( as measured by बिक्री ) बाद मैकडोनाल्ड 's , साथ over 18,000 आउटलेट in 120 देशों और territories  .
The company  is a subsidiary of  Yum !
Brands , a restaurant  कम्पनी जिससे भी owns पिज़्ज़ा हट और टैको घंटी  .
KFC was founded by Harland Sanders , who began selling fried chicken from his  roadside रेस्तरां in कोर्बिन , केंटकी दौरान the ग्रेट अवसाद .
Sanders was one of the first people to  देखिए the संभावित of the रेस्तरां फ़्रेंचाइज़िंग अवधारणा , साथ the पहला `` केंटकी fried मुर्गा  '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952 .
The franchise popularized  मुर्गा in the तेज़ खाना उद्योग , thereby diversifying the मार्केट  and challenging the dominance of the hamburger .
Marketing himself as `` Colonel Sanders '' , he became a  legendary फिगर of अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक इतिहास , और उसके चित्र is स्टिल prominently प्रयुक्त in केएफसी ब्रांडिंग  .
The company 's rapid expansion saw it grow too  विशाल लिये सैंडर्स to मैनेज , और in 1964 he बेची the कम्पनी to a समूह of निवेशकों led by जॉन  Y . Brown , Jr. and Jack Massey .
KFC was  एक of the पहला तेज़ खाना जंजीरों to विस्तार internationally , खोलने आउटलेट in  England , Mexico and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s .
Throughout the  1970s और 1980s , केएफसी अनुभवी मिश्रित सौभाग्य domestically , as it गई through a श्रेणी of कॉरपोरेट स्वामी जो  had little or no experience in the restaurant business .
In the early 1970s , KFC was sold to the spirits firm Heublein ,  जो यहूद लिया over by the r.J. रेनॉल्ड्स खाना और तम्बाकू संगुटिका  , who sold the chain to PepsiCo .
The chain continued to expand overseas however  , और in 1987 केएफसी became the पहला पश्चिमी रेस्तरां कड़ी to खोलें  in China .
The chain has since expanded rapidly in China , and  the देश is अभी the कम्पनी 's सबसे लाभप्रद मार्केट  .
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants  प्रभाग as tricon वैश्विक रेस्तरां , जिससे बाद बदला  its name to Yum !
ब्रांड्स .
KFC primarily sells fried chicken pieces and variations such as  मुर्गा सैंडविच और wraps , सलाद और पक्ष बर्तन ऐसे as फ्रेंच फ्राइज़ और coleslaw ,  desserts and soft drinks , often supplied by PepsiCo .
Its  सबसे प्रसिद्ध उत्पाद is दबाव fried मुर्गा टुकड़े , seasoned साथ सैंडर्स  ' `` Original Recipe '' of 11 herbs and spices .
The exact  प्रकृति of ये संघटक is अनजान , और represents a notable  trade secret .
Larger  portions of fried मुर्गा हैं परोसा in a distinctive गत्ता `` बाल्टी '' , जिससे रै  become a signature of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman .
KFC is famous for the slogan `` finger lickin ' good '' ,  जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम replaced by `` nobody करता मुर्गा जैसे केएफसी '' और ``  So good '' .
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or  coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 प्रजाति of पशु मिला exclusively  in aquatic and mostly marine environments .
Their distinguishing feature is  cnidocytes , specialized कोशिकाएं कि वे उपयोग मुख्यतः लिये  capturing prey .
Their bodies consist of mesoglea , a non-living jelly-like  पदार्थ , sandwiched between दो परतों of epithelium कि हैं ज़्यादातर एक  cell thick .
They have two basic body forms : swimming medusae and sessile polyps , both of which are  radially सममित साथ mouths घिरी by tentacles कि  bear cnidocytes .
Both forms have a single  orifice और देह गुहा कि हैं प्रयुक्त लिये पाचन और श्वसन  .
Many cnidarian species  उपज colonies कि हैं सिंगल जीवों रचित of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids , or दोनो  .
Cnidarians '  क्रियाएँ हैं समन्वित by a विकेन्द्रित तंत्रिका जाल और सरल  receptors .
Several free-swimming  cubozoa और scyphozoa possess balance-sensing statocysts , और  some have simple eyes .
Not  सब cnidarians reproduce  sexually .
Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and  यौन medusae , लकिन कुछ omit either the polyp or  the medusa stage .
Cnidarians were for a long  समय grouped साथ ctenophores in the phylum coelenterata , लकिन increasing जागरूकता of उनके मतभेद caused उन्हें  to be placed in separate phyla .
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones , corals , sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( box  jellies ) ; और hydrozoa , a विविध समूह कि शामिल सब the freshwater cnidarians as खूब as अनेक समुद्री फ़ॉर्म , और रै दोनो स्थानबद्ध सदस्यों ऐसे as hydra और औपनिवेशिक swimmers ऐसे  as the Portuguese Man o ' War .
Staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in their own right rather than a  sub-group of scyphozoa , और वहीँ is बहस परिचय whether myxozoa और polypodiozoa हैं cnidarians or करीब to bilaterians ( अधिक  complex animals ) .
Most cnidarians prey  on जीवों ranging in आकार इससे प्लवक to पशु अनेक टाइम्स larger than themselves , लकिन अनेक obtain much  of their nutrition from endosymbiotic algae , and a few are parasites .
Many are  preyed upon by अन्य पशु सहित starfish  , sea slugs , fish and turtles .
Coral reefs , whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic  शैवाल , support कुछ of the संसार 's सबसे उत्पादक ecosystems , और protect वनस्पति  in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides .
While corals are almost  entirely प्रतिबंधित to गरम , उथले समुद्री waters , अन्य cnidarians सजीव in the  depths , in polar seas and in freshwater .
Fossil cnidarians have been found in  रॉक्स formed परिचय , और अन्य जीवाश्मों दिखाएँ कि corals may have महरूम उपस्थित shortly पहले और diversified  a few million years later .
Fossils of  cnidarians कि do नहीं निर्माण mineralized structures  are very rare .
Scientists currently think that cnidarians ,  ctenophores और bilaterians हैं अधिक closely सम्बन्धित to calcareous sponges than ये हैं to अन्य sponges , और कि anthozoans  are the evolutionary `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians , and the most closely related to bilaterians .
हाल analyses have concluded कि cnidarians , हालांकि माना अधिक `` आदिम  '' than bilaterians , have a wider range of genes .
The Aztec  पिरामिड at st. cecilia acatitlan ,  Mexico State .
Aztec jade mask  depicting the परमेश्वर xipe totec  .
विशाल सिरेमिक प्रतिमा of an एज़टेक  Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram  in the pre-hispanic codex fejérváry-mayer  - the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center .
the एज़टेक लोगों यहूद निश्चित जातीय समूह of सेंट्रल मैक्सिको , विशेषकर those समूह जो spoke the नावातल  language and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries .
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and  aztecah ( बहुवचन ) औसत `` लोगों इससे aztlan `` , a पौराणिक प्लेस लिये the nahuatl-speaking संस्कृति of the  time , and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people .
Often the term `` Aztec '' refers exclusively to the Mexica  लोगों of tenochtitlan ( अभी the स्थान of मैक्सिको नगर ) , situated on an द्वीप in झील texcoco , जो referred to  themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica .
Sometimes the term  भी शामिल the निवासियों of tenochtitlan 's दो प्रिंसिपल अलाइड city-states , the acolhuas of texcoco और the tepanecs  of Tlacopan , who together with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire '' .
In other contexts , Aztec may refer to all the various city states and their peoples , who shared large  भाग of उनके जातीय इतिहास और सांस्कृतिक traits साथ the mexica , acolhua और tepanecs , और जो प्रायः भी प्रयुक्त the नावातल  language as a lingua franca .
In this meaning it is  संभावित to बात परिचय an एज़टेक सभ्यता सहित सब the particular सांस्कृतिक पैटर्न आम लिये  most of the peoples inhabiting Central Mexico in the late postclassic period .
From the 13th  सदी , the घाटी of मैक्सिको थी the दिल of एज़टेक सभ्यता : यहाँ the पूंजी of the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन  , the city of Tenochtitlan , was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco .
The Triple Alliance formed a tributary empire expanding its political hegemony far beyond the  घाटी of मैक्सिको , conquering अन्य नगर राज्य throughout मेसोअमेरिका  .
At its pinnacle ,  एज़टेक संस्कृति था समृद्ध और जटिल पौराणिक और धार्मिक परंपराओं , as खूब as reaching  remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments .
In 1521 Hernán Cortés , along with a large number of  नावातल बोलना स्वदेशी allies , conquered tenochtitlan और पराजित the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन अंतर्गत the नेतृत्व  of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II .
subsequently the स्पेनी संस्थापित the नई उपनिवेश of मैक्सिको नगर on the साईट of the ruined एज़टेक  capital , from where they proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America .
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo  महापौर in मैक्सिको नगर ; इससे स्वदेशी छाल पेपर codices ; इससे eyewitness खाते by स्पेनी conquistadors ऐसे as hernán cortés और बर्नल díaz डेल कैस्टिलो ; और विशेषकर इससे 16th और 17th सदी descriptions of एज़टेक संस्कृति और इतिहास लिखा by स्पेनी  clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language , such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants .
एंडरसन hays कूपर ( born जून 3 , 1967 ) is an अमरीकी पत्रकार  , author , and television personality .
He is the  प्राथमिक लंगर of the सीएनएन न्यूज  show Anderson Cooper 360° .
The program  is सामान्यतः ब्रॉडकास्ट सजीव इससे a नई यॉर्क नगर स्टुडियो ; however  , Cooper often broadcasts live on location for breaking news stories .
As of  सितंबर 2011 , he भी serves as मेजबान of उसके अपना eponymous syndicated दिन बात दिखाएँ , एंडरसन सजीव , जिससे होगा be रद्द  at the end of the second season .
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped curve ) where  प्रत्येक बैंड रै a चौडाई of 1 मानक विचलन – देखिए भी : 68-95-99.7  rule
संचयी संभाव्यता of a सामान्य वितरण साथ  expected value 0 and standard deviation 1 .
In statistics and probability theory , standard deviation (  represented by the प्रतीक सिग्मा , σ ) shows कैसा much विभिन्नता or dispersion exists इससे the औसत ( औसत )  , or expected value .
A low standard deviation indicates  कि the आंकड़ा अंक tend to be बहुत बंद to the औसत ; ऊँची मानक विचलन  indicates that the data points are spread out over a large range of values .
The standard  विचलन of a यादृच्छिक परिवर्तनीय , सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी , आंकड़ा नियत  , or probability distribution is the square root of its variance .
It is  algebraically simpler हालांकि practically कम मजबूत  than the average absolute deviation .
A useful property of  मानक विचलन is कि , नापसंद variance , it is expressed in the  same units as the data .
Note , however  , कि लिये माप साथ प्रतिशत as ईकाई , the मानक  deviation will have percentage points as unit .
In addition to expressing the  variability of a जनसांख्यिकी , मानक विचलन is commonly प्रयुक्त to माप विश्वास in सांख्यिकीय  conclusions .
For example , the margin  of गलती in polling आंकड़ा is संकल्पित by calculating the अपेक्षित मानक विचलन in the परिणाम  if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times .
The reported margin of error  is typically परिचय twice the मानक विचलन ­– the दायरा of a 95 प्रतिशत  confidence interval .
In science , researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data , and only effects that fall far outside the  दायरा of मानक विचलन हैं माना statistically significant – सामान्य यादृच्छिक गलती or विभिन्नता in the माप is in  this way distinguished from causal variation .
Standard deviation is also important in finance , where the  मानक विचलन on the रेट of वापसी on an निवेश is a माप of the  volatility of the investment .
When only a sample of data from a population is available , the  मानक विचलन of the जनसांख्यिकी can be अनुमानित by a परिवर्धित मात्रा पुकारा the `` नमूना मानक विचलन  '' .
When the sample is the entire population , its  unmodified मानक विचलन is पुकारा the `` जनसांख्यिकी मानक  deviation '' .
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) (  ullucus tuberosus ) is a संयंत्र grown primarily as a रूट सब्ज़ी , secondarily  as a leaf vegetable .
The  ulluco is एक of the सबसे widely grown और economically  important root crops in the Andean region of South America , second only to the potato .
It is known there with the common  नाम of पापा लिसा , लकिन भी by the क्षेत्रीय names melloco ( इक्वाडोर ) , olluco ( पेरू ) , chugua ( कोलंबिया )  or ruba ( Venezuela ) , among others .
The  पत्ता और the tuber हैं खाद्य , समान  to spinach and the potato , respectively .
They are known to contain high levels of protein  , कैल्सियम , और केरोटीन .
Papalisa were used by the  incas prior to आगमन of europeans in दक्षिण  America .
ulluco tubers हैं marketed as  `` Earth Gems '' in New Zealand , by Halfords Exotic Produce .
ulluco tubers in  New Zealand
An April 24 , 1851 poster warning the `` colored people of Boston '' about  पुलिसकर्मियों एक्टिंग as स्लेव catchers  .
The Fugitive  स्लेव विधि or भगोड़े स्लेव अधिनियम थी passed by the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस on सितंबर 18 , 1850 , as भाग of the सुलह of 1850 between दक्षिणी  slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers .
This was one of the most controversial  अधिनियमों of the 1850 सुलह और heightened उत्तरी fears of a `` स्लेव शक्ति  conspiracy '' .
It declared that  सब runaway स्लेव यहूद , upon कैप्चर , to be लौटे to उनके मास्टर्स .
Abolitionists nicknamed it the  `` bloodhound विधि '' लिये the कुत्तो कि यहूद प्रयुक्त to track bas runaway  slaves .
Frank Joseph Pallone , Jr. ( born  अक्तूबर 30 , 1951 ) is the u.S. प्रतिनिधि  for , serving since 1993 .
He  is a सदस्य of the  Democratic Party .
He  previously represented the  3rd district from 1988 to 1993 .
trin-i-tee 5:7 is a इन्जील duo इससे नई ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana in the United States .
The group was marketed as a  इन्जील वैकल्पिक to r & b लड़की समूह ऐसे as नियति  's Child and TLC .
Trin-i-tee 5:7 has  बेची over 2.5 लाख  albums .
in 1998 , the समूह released उनके पहला एल्बम हकदार trin-i-tee 5:7 जिससे डेब्यू  at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts .
The album featured  the गीतों `` परमेश्वर 's अनुग्रह '' और the कवर  song `` Oh !
Mary  do n't तुम रोते  '' .
The album  बाद became certified सुनहरा  .
in 1999 , terri भूरा बाएँ the समूह  and was later replaced by singer Adrian Anderson .
दौरान कि साल , the समूह अंकित और released उनके दूसरी  album , Spiritual Love .
The album became  the समूह 's दूसरी # 1 एल्बम on the  Top Gospel charts .
The album contained the singles  `` put अपना हैंड्स '' और ``  My Body '' .
In 2002  , the समूह released उनके तीसरा एल्बम the चुंबन जिससे  debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts .
In 2007 , the group left GospoCentric  रिकॉर्ड और हस्ताक्षरित a रिकार्ड सौदे साथ स्पिरिट उठती म्यूज़िक  .
In late 2007 , Trin-i-tee  5:7 released उनके पांचवां एल्बम t57 , जिससे प्रदर्शित the  top ten gospel single `` Listen '' .
T57 charted # 2 on the  शीर्ष इन्जील एल्बम , # 5 on the शीर्ष ईसाई चार्ट , और  # 12 on the Top R & B charts .
The United States federal earned  आय कर क्रेडिट or अर्जित आय क्रेडिट ( eitc or eic ) is a refundable कर क्रेडिट लिये low- और medium-income individuals  and couples , primarily for those who have qualifying children .
When the  क्रेडिट exceeds the राशि of कर owed , it परिणाम in a कर refund to those  who claim the credit .
This credit  is provided to ऑफसेट the बोझ of सोशल सुरक्षा कर और भी  to promote an incentive to work .
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child ( ren ) , the age ,  संबंध , और साझा रेसिडेंसी आवश्यकताएँ जरूर be मिले , as खूब as कुछ अन्य आवश्यकताएँ  .
U.S. tax forms 1040EZ ,  1040a , or 1040 can be प्रयुक्त to अर्जी eic बगैर qualifying children  .
To claim the credit with  qualifying children , 1040a or 1040 जरूर be प्रयुक्त , as खूब as attaching  Schedule EIC .
EIC phases in slowly , has a  medium-length पठार , और तब phases आउट  more slowly than it phased in .
Since the  क्रेडिट phases आउट at 21 % ( लिये दो children और लिये तीन or अधिक qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( लिये एक qualifying चाइल्ड ) , it is सदा अस्तबलों to have एक अधिक डालर of वास्तविक सैलरी or मजदूरी ( हालांकि  technically , since the EIC table moves by fifty dollar increments , it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ) .
For tax year 2011 , the maximum  eic लिये a सिंगल व्यक्ति or युगल दाखिल बगैर  qualifying children was $ 464 .
The maximum EIC with one qualifying  चाइल्ड थी $ 3,094 , साथ दो children थी $ 5,112 , और साथ  three or more qualifying children was $ 5,751 .
These amounts are indexed  annually लिये महंगाई .
the अर्जित आय कर क्रेडिट रै महरूम भाग of राजनैतिक debates in the संयुक्त राज्य regarding whether उठाने  the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs .
The following  is a सूची of मध्यांतर shows आयोजित at the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग  's championship game , the Super Bowl .
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of competition , the Super Bowl halftime show represents a fundamental link to  पॉप संस्कृति , जिससे helps broaden the टेलीविज़न दर्शक और देशभर  interest .
In most years since the mid-1980s , the halftime  दिखाएँ of the सुपर कटोरी रै प्रदर्शित लोकप्रिय रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकारों और अन्य well-known हस्तियाँ  .
It has measurably increased  टेलीविज़न दर्शक दौरान और  after the halftime show .
The performance is regarded one of the  most-watched कार्यक्रम in अमरीकी टेलीविज़न annually साथ over 100 लाख  viewers in the United States alone .
Musical genres over the years have  represented a व्यापक दायरा of म्यूज़िक प्रकार , सहित पॉप , चट्टान , क्लासिक चट्टान  , country , hip hop , rap , blues , and soul .
In some  सालो , छोटी skits or नाटक दृश्यों हैं acted  out on a stage .
The performance group Up with People has performed at the  सबसे सुपर कटोरी मध्यांतर shows , अभिनीत in चार दौरान the 1970s और  1980s .
According to Nielsen ratings , Super Bowl  xlvi मध्यांतर दिखाएँ headlined by मैडोना in 2012 remains the most-watched मध्यांतर दिखाएँ in इतिहास , साथ  114 million viewers or about 3 million more than the actual game .
Beyonce 's 2013 halftime  दिखाएँ प्रदर्शन थी the दूसरी सबसे viewed दिखाएँ  in history .
It  is सूचीबद्ध on the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड as the largest tv दर्शक  for a Super Bowl half-time performance .
International Men 's Day ( IMD ) is  an सालाना अंतरराष्ट्रीय इवेंट मनाये on 19th नवम्बर  .
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad  और टोबैगो , the दिन और इसके कार्यक्रम ढूँढें support इससे a किस्में of individuals और समूह in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , the caribbean ,  North America , Asia , Europe and Africa .
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO , Director of Women and  संस्कृति of सलाम ingeborg breines कहा of imd , `` इस is an बेहतरीन विचार और होता  give some gender balance . ''
She added that UNESCO  थी looking आगे to cooperating साथ  the organizers .
The objectives of celebrating an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's दिन शामिल focusing on मेन 's और लड़कों ' स्वास्थ्य , improving लिंग संबंध , promoting  gender equality , and highlighting positive male role models .
It is an occasion  to हाइलाइट पक्षपात विरूद्ध मेन और लड़कों और to celebrate उनके उपलब्धियाँ और योगदान , in particular  for their contributions to community , family , marriage , and child care .
The  broader और परम उद्देश्य of the इवेंट is to प्रचार  basic humanitarian values .
International Men 's Day is  मनाये in over 60 देशों , सहित त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो , जमैका , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , इण्डिया , चीन , संयुक्त राज्य , रोमानिया , सिंगापुर , माल्टा , संयुक्त किंगडम , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , तंजानिया , ज़िम्बाब्वे , बोत्सवाना , australia , बुरुंडी , हंगेरियाई , आयरलैंड , आइल of man , घाना , कनाडा , डेनमार्क , नार्वे , ऑस्ट्रिया  , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Ukraine , France , Italy , Pakistan , Cuba , Antigua and Barbuda , St. Kitts and Nevis , St. Lucia , Grenada and Cayman Islands , on 19 November , and global support for the celebration is broad .
Valley  गाँव parkvalley
Village is a  ज़िला in the सैन फर्नांडो घाटी प्रदेश of लॉस एंजिल्स  , California .
The  मध्य आयु of इसके जनसांख्यिकी , at 36 , is `` बूढ़ा लिये the नगर of लॉस एंजिल्स . '' और इसके औसत household  size of two people is low , compared to other parts of the city .
Developmental psychology is the  वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of परिवर्तन कि occur in इंसान beings over the कोर्स of उनके जीवन स्पैन  .
Originally concerned  साथ infants और children , the फ़ील्ड रै विस्तारित to शामिल किशोरावस्था  , adult development , aging , and the entire life span .
This field examines change across a broad range of  विषय सहित मोटर कौशल और अन्य psycho-physiological प्रक्रियाओं ; संज्ञानात्मक विकास involving क्षेत्रों ऐसे as प्रॉब्लम solving , moral समझना , और conceptual समझना ; भाषा अधिग्रहण ; सोशल , व्यक्तित्व  , and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity formation .
Developmental  मनोविज्ञान शामिल मुद्दे ऐसे as the extent to जिससे विकास occurs through the क्रमिक accumulation of ज्ञान बनाम stage-like विकास  , or the extent to which children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience .
Many  शोधकर्ताओं हैं दिलचस्पी in the बातचीत between निजी विशेषताएँ , the व्यक्तिगत 's बर्ताव , और पर्यावरणीय  factors including social context , and their impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach .
Developmental psychology informs several applied fields , including : educational  मनोविज्ञान , चाइल्ड psychopathology , और forensic developmental मनोविज्ञान  .
Developmental  मनोविज्ञान complements अनेक अन्य मौलिक शोध फ़ील्ड in मनोविज्ञान  including social psychology , cognitive psychology , ecological psychology , and comparative psychology .
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional  अक्षर जो पहला appeared on the 1970s अमरीकी sitcom सब in the परिवार .
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of Mike Stivic ( played by  रोब reiner ) और ग्लोरिया stivic ( निभाई by सैली struthers ) , और the पोता of आर्ची बंकर ( कैरल  O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ) .
The  अक्षर पहला appeared as a नवजात baby in a two-part एपीसोड  of All in the Family which aired in December 1975 .
After many  दिखावे on सब in the परिवार जबतक reiner और struthers बाएँ the श्रेणी in 1978 ( by कि समय , जॉय था महरूम निभाई सबसे प्रायः by प्रत्यावर्ती जुड़वा जेसन और जस्टिन draeger ) , the जॉय stivic अक्षर अगला appeared on the सब  in the Family spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original ) Archie Bunker 's Place in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion . ''
In this  उदाहरण , the अक्षर थी निभाई by चाइल्ड कर्ता लंड billingsley और  was appropriately pre-school age .
With Gloria now  अलग इससे माइक , वो लौटे to आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस साथ जॉय in  the February 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home . ''
in इस एपीसोड , जॉय थी निभाई  by Christopher Johnston .
जॉय stivic थी a नियमित अक्षर on the सब in the  Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983 .
On this series , in which the now-divorced  ग्लोरिया बंकर अक्षर था स्थानांतरित to upstate नई यॉर्क in अनुक्रम to कार्य as an सहायक veterinarian , the भाग of जॉय stivic थी निभाई  by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs .
After Gloria was canceled in 1983 , Joey Stivic disappeared  इससे प्रधान समय टेलीविज़न लिये 11 सालो , जबतक the अक्षर बना एक पिछला रूप on 704 hauser , a short-lived 1994 श्रेणी परिचय a ब्लैक परिवार जो था स्थानांतरित into the बूढ़ा बंकर घर  , years after Bunker had sold it .
In this appearance , the Joey Stivic character was  निभाई by केसी siemaszko , an कर्ता born in 1961 ( 14 सालो पहले जॉय stivic 's fictional  birth ) .
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch ``  जॉय stivic गुड़िया '' ( पुकारा `` आर्ची बंकर 's पोता '' ) जिससे थी billed as the `` पहला anatomically सही  male doll . ''
The doll  प्रेरित mild विवाद at the समय , और is a collectors  ' item today .
The 2011 Rose Bowl was the 97th edition of the annual bowl game played on  जनवरी 1 , 2011 , as भाग of the 2010 कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल  season .
Played in Pasadena , California , the TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain West  सम्मेलन पराजित the विस्कॉन्सिन badgers of the बिग टेन सम्मेलन by a स्कोर  of 21 – 19 .
The Pasadena Tournament of  गुलाब संघ थी the आयोजक of the  game .
Vizio Inc. was the  कॉरपोरेट प्रायोजक और the खेल थी officially नामित `` the रोज़ कटोरी खेल  presented by Vizio '' .
This game  चिह्नित the पहला समय a टोली इससे a non-automatic qualifying सम्मेलन  played in , and won , the Rose Bowl in its 97 years .
The contest was broadcast on cable  टेलीविज़न स्टेशन ईएसपीएन साथ a रेडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on ईएसपीएन रेडियो और xm उपग्रह रेडियो और espn3 स्ट्रीमिंग  video over the internet .
Coverage  began at 1:30 pm ( pst ) साथ kickoff at 2:10  PM ( PST ) .
This marked the first time that the game was not broadcast nationally  `` over-the-air '' ( स्थलीय टेलीविज़न ) चूंकि the खेल prior to the 1952 रोज़ कटोरी , जिससे थी the पहला nationally televised कॉलेज  football game .
the रोज़ कटोरी खेल , प्रसंग भवन सपनो , friendships , & यादें , थी a contractual sell-out , साथ  64,500 tickets allocated to the participating teams and conferences .
टिकट कीमतें लिये सब सीटे in  the Rose Bowl are listed at $ 145 .
The remaining tickets went to the  टूर्नामेंट of गुलाब सदस्यों , प्रायोजकों , नगर of pasadena निवासियों , और the सामान्य  public .
The Rose Bowl stadium capacity is listed at  लगभग 91,000  .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement  अपनाया by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4 , 1776 , जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies , तब at युद्ध साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , regarded themselves  as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
Instead they now  formed a नई nation—the संयुक्त  States of America .
John Adams was a  नेता in pushing लिये स्वतंत्रता , जिससे थी  unanimously approved on July 2 .
A  कमेटी था already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा , to  be ready when congress voted on independence .
एडम्स persuaded the कमेटी to चुनें थामस जेफरसन to लिखें the असली ड्राफ्ट of  the document , which congress would edit to produce the final version .
The Declaration  थी ultimately a औपचारिक स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  , more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the  स्वतंत्रता दिन is मनाये on जुलाई 4 , हालांकि एडम्स चाही जुलाई  2 .
बाद ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4 , कॉंग्रेस  issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published as  the मुद्रित डनलप broadside कि थी widely वितरित और  read to the public .
The most famous version of the Declaration , a  हस्ताक्षरित नक़ल कि is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता , is प्रदर्शित at the नेशनल अभिलेख in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Although the wording of the  घोषणा थी स्वीकृत on जुलाई 4 , the तिथि of इसके हस्ताक्षर थी  August 2 .
The original July 4 United States Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता पाण्डुलिपि थी खोया जबकि सब अन्य नक़ल have महरूम निकला इससे इस असली दस्तावेज़  .
The  स्त्रोत और निर्वचन of the घोषणा have महरूम the विषय of  much scholarly inquiry .
The Declaration justified the independence  of the संयुक्त राज्य by लिस्टिंग औपनिवेशिक grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज iii , और by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक और विधिक  rights , including a right of revolution .
Having served its original  purpose in announcing स्वतंत्रता , the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा थी initially  ignored after the American Revolution .
Since then , it has come to be  माना a प्रमुख बयान on इंसान अधिकारों , विशेषकर  its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created  बराबर , कि वे हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable अधिकारों , कि among ये हैं जीवन , स्वतंत्रता और the pursuit of सुख  .
This has been called `` one of  the best-known वाक्य in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '' , containing `` the सबसे potent और consequential शब्द in अमरीकी  history . ''
The  ड्योढ़ी आए to represent a moral मानक to जिससे the संयुक्त  States should strive .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the Declaration to be the  न्यास of उसके राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र , और argued कि the घोषणा is a बयान of सिद्धान्त through जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution should be interpreted .
It has  प्रेरित कार्य लिये the अधिकारों of अधिकारहीन लोगों  throughout the world .
Chitty Chitty Bang Bang is a 1968  अंग्रेजों musical फिल्मी loosely आधारित on इयान फ्लेमिंग  's novel .
The  फिल्मी 's स्क्रिप्ट is by roald dahl और केन ह्यूजेस और इसके गीतों by the  Sherman Brothers .
It  सितारों लंड वैन dyke as caractacus potts और  Sally Ann Howes as Truly Scrumptious .
The film was directed  by केन ह्यूजेस और उत्पादित by अल्बर्ट R. ब्रोकोली ( co-producer  of the James Bond series of films , also based on Fleming 's novels ) .
John  stears पर्यवेक्षित the खास  effects .
Irwin  kostal पर्यवेक्षित और conducted the म्यूज़िक , जबकि the musical संख्याएँ यहूद मंचन by मार्क  Breaux and Dee Dee Wood .
A region is arid when it is characterized by  a कठोर कमी of उपलब्धियाँ जल , to the extent of hindering or preventing the विकास और विकास of  plant and animal life .
Environments subject to arid  climates tend to कमी वनस्पति और हैं पुकारा xeric  or desertic .
सबसे `` arid '' climates घेर the equator ; ये स्थान शामिल सबसे of अफ़्रीकी  and parts of South America and Central America .
Cancer  ( ♋ ) is an astrological चिह्न , जिससे is संबद्ध साथ the  constellation Cancer .
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac ,  between 90 और 125.25 उपाधि of celestial देशांतर , जिससे the सूर्य transits इस क्षेत्रफल on औसत  between June 22 to July 22 each year .
And under the  sidereal zodiac , it is फिलहाल इससे  July 21 to August 9 .
The United States presidential election  of 1960 थी the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , आयोजित on मंगलवार , नवम्बर  8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party nominated  लाज़िम vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन , जबकि the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी मनोनीत जॉन F.  Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President , Republican Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर , थी नहीं योग्य लिये re-election बाद सेवारत  the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes , or 0.17 % of the popular vote  , giving उसे a विजय of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी कॉलेज , the closest चूंकि  1916 .
This  थी the पहला चुनाव in जिससे सब  fifty of the current United States participated .
A number of  कारकों बताइये क्यों the चुनाव थी so बंद  .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which  ठेस the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन , और he था the लाभ of 17 लाख अधिक पंजीकृत डेमोक्रेट  than Republicans .
Furthermore , the new votes that Kennedy gained among  catholics लगभग neutralized the नई मत  Nixon gained among Protestants .
Kennedy 's  campaigning कौशल decisively outmatched  Nixon 's .
In the end , Nixon 's  जोर on उसके अनुभव carried छोटी वज़न , और he wasted उर्जा by campaigning  in all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states .
Kennedy used his large , well-funded campaign organization to win the nomination , secure  समर्थन , और , साथ the सहायता of the पिछला of the big-city bosses , to मिलेंगी आउट the vote in the बिग शहरों  .
He relied  on कार्यशील mate lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण और  used television effectively .
This election is notable as being the first time in  u.S. इतिहास कि दो बैठे u.s . सीनेटरों ( कैनेडी और जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष और vice-president , a घटना कि रै महरूम दोहराया एकबार , by बराक ओबामा और जो बिडेन  in 2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
Sherwood is  a नगर in वॉशिंगटन काउंटी , ऑरेगॉन , संयुक्त राज्य  .
Located in the southeast corner of  the काउंटी , it is a आवासीय जातियाँ in the tualatin घाटी दक्षिणपश्चिम of पोर्टलैंड  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 11,791 at the 2000  census .
According to the 2010 census  , the जनसांख्यिकी थी 18,205 निवासियों .
Indirectly  नामित लिये the शेरवुड वन in इंग्लैण्ड , it थी पहला  incorporated in 1893 as a town .
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act  of the u.S. कॉंग्रेस कि थी हस्ताक्षरित into विधि by अध्यक्ष  George W. Bush on October 26 , 2001 .
The title of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT )  कि स्टैंड लिये uniting ( और ) strengthening अमेरिका ( by ) providing उचित टूल्स जरूरी ( to ) इंटरफेस ( और ) obstruct आतंक  Act of 2001 .
The act , as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th , significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s  प्राधिकार to विनियमित वित्तीय ट्रांजेक्शन , विशेषकर those involving विदेशी individuals और entities ; और broadened the discretion of विधि प्रवर्तन और आव्रजन अधिकारियों in निमाड़ और deporting आप्रवासियों  suspected of terrorism-related acts .
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to  शामिल घरेलू आतंक , यूँ enlarging the क्रमांक of क्रियाएँ to जिससे the यूएसए patriot act’s विस्तारित विधि  enforcement powers can be applied .
On May 26 , 2011 , President Barack Obama used an Autopen to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011 , a four-year extension of  तीन कुंजी प्रावधानों in the यूएसए patriot अधिनियम जबकि he थी in फ़्रांस : roving wiretaps , खोज of कारोबार रिकॉर्ड ( the `` पुस्तकालयों रिकॉर्ड प्रावधान `` ) , और conducting निगरानी of `` लोन भेड़ियों '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related क्रियाएँ नहीं linked to आतंकवादी  groups .
रिपब्लिकन नेताओ questioned if the उपयोग of the autopen मिले the संवैधानिक  requirements for signing a bill into law .
A house in Queen  ऐनी स्टाइल at 223 एवेन्यू a .
Snohomish is a city in  snohomish काउंटी , वॉशिंगटन , संयुक्त  States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 9,098 at  the 2010 census .
The mayor of Snohomish is  karen guzak , और the नगर मैनेजर is लैरी bauman  .
Snohomish prides itself for its historical downtown , and  थी एकबार ज्ञात लिये इसके अनेक पुरातन दुकानें जब it थी ज्ञात as the ``  Antique Capital of the Northwest . ''
The historic business and residential center of the  कस्बा constitutes the snohomish ऐतिहासिक ज़िला , जिससे is सूचीबद्ध on the नेशनल  Register of Historic Places .
Many houses bear plaques with the  साल the हाउस थी निर्मित और the नाम of the परिवार or व्यक्तिगत जो originally occupied  it .
Once every year , the city gives  टुर of the ऐतिहासिक घरों ; एक of उन्हें , the blackman हाउस , is  a year-round museum .
A  सामान्य विमानन एयरफील्ड , घनघोर एयरफील्ड  , is less than one mile southwest of Downtown Snohomish .
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an American  चट्टान बैंड कि थी formed in charlottesville , वर्जिनिया  , United States , in 1991 .
The founding members were  singer-songwriter और guitarist डेव matthews , bassist stefan lessard , वादक /backing vocalist कार्टर  Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore .
Boyd  tinsley थी added to the बैंड as a violinist जल्द बाद  the band was formed .
Moore died suddenly in August 2008 due to  जटिलताओं इससे चोटों sustained in an atv  accident .
GRAMMY Award -winner  जेफ़ ताबूत of béla fleck और the flecktones रै चूंकि  filled Moore 's spot as the band 's saxophonist .
Rashawn Ross and Tim  रेनॉल्ड्स have भी become full-time  touring members of the band .
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first album since Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the  बिलबोर्ड 200 , कमाई the बैंड उनके पांचवां लगातार number-one debut— बनाना उन्हें the दूसरी बैंड पीछे मेटालिका to  do so .
Their most recent album , Away from  the संसार , थी released in 2012 , और भी debuted at क्रमांक  one on the Billboard chart .
As of 2010 ,  the डेव matthews बैंड रै बेची over 30 लाख  records worldwide .
The band is known for their annual  summer-long टुर of the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय , featuring lengthy improvisational renditions  of their songs , accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show .
This portion of the tour has become a  स्टैम्प of dmb और रै grown साथ the बैंड चूंकि fenton विलियम्स  began working with them in the early 1990s .
After twenty consecutive  सालो of touring the बैंड घोषित कि it होता लो the  summer of 2011 off .
डेव matthews बैंड रै जीती एक ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  , and was awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award .
According to  जूलियन बंध , `` वे बेचें आउट the largest arenas on धरती , लकिन अक्सर  give their music away . ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A Chapter from an  अलिखित रोमांस is a गद्य व्यंग्य लिखा by louisa may alcott , परिचय उसके परिवार 's भागीदारी साथ the transcendentalist जातियाँ  Fruitlands in the early 1840s .
The work  थी पहला प्रकाशित in a नई यॉर्क समाचारपत्र in 1873 , और reprinted  in 1874 , 1876 , and 1915 and after .
In her account , Alcott  provides the रियल लोगों शामिल साथ पतला pseudonymous  disguises .
Her father  अमोस bronson alcott is `` abel मेमने , '' जबकि उसके संगी और जातियाँ co-founder चार्ल्स लेन is `` timon शेर ;  '' Abigail May Alcott , Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's wife , is `` Sister Hope . ''
Alcott depicts her father as  वर्चस्व by उसके अधिक forceful संगी , और दोनो मेन as लापरवाह  and impractical dreamers .
The men of the community  खर्च उनके समय in pointless debates जबकि सिस्टर आशा works इससे  dawn to dusk to maintain their existence .
A crisis arises at harvest  समय , जब the अनाज क्रॉप is threatened by an approaching  storm .
In Alcott 's words , `` About the time the grain was ready to house  , कुछ कॉल of the oversoul wafted सब the मेन दूर .  ''
Sister Hope  organizes the तभी उपलब्धियाँ सहायता , तीन  little girls and a boy , and manages to save the crop .
The little community collapses as soon as the weather turns  ठंडा , जब it becomes साफ कि उनके प्रावधानों हैं too meager to पिछला  the coming winter .
Timon  शेर और उसके बेटे abscond to जुड़ें the shakers — हालांकि timon is अप्रसन्न to सीख  that life among them is `` all work and no play . ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ;  बाद दिनों of despair he begins to खा again तभी जब he realizes  that his family needs him .
सिस्टर आशा पाता a रास्ता लिये उन्हें  to subsist and persevere .
Alcott 's view of male  arrogance और मादा शोषण in इस टुकड़ा is paralleled in उसके अनोखा , प्रकाशित in the वही  year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats . ''
``  अनुभवातीत जंगली जई '' रै महरूम reprinted in अनेक  modern editions .
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the  sawatch दायरा , भाग of the रॉकी kyu in कोलोराडो  .
It  is स्तिथ in the पावन क्रॉस wilderness निकट the भुत  town of Holy Cross City and in Eagle County .
It was named for the  distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the पूर्वोत्तर फेस  .
Under USDA Forest  सेवा प्रशासन , the पहाड़ थी proclaimed `` पावन  Cross National Monument '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11 , 1929 .
The  स्मारक थी transferred to the नेशनल पार्क  Service in 1933 .
In 1950 , it was returned to the Forest  सेवा और खोया इसके नेशनल स्मारक status—the क्रमांक of विज़िटर to the पहाड़ और the आसपास `` pilgrim 's हट '' था waned , और the व्यय of full-time  staff could not be justified .
इस पहाड़ रै महरूम the विषय of चित्रकार , फ़ोटोग्राफ़र और  even a poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow , ( The Cross of Snow ) .
The first publicly  उपलब्धियाँ फोटोग्राफ थी प्रकाशित in नेशनल  Geographic magazine .
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an oil painting , which now is part of the collection of  the संग्रहालय of the अमरीकी वेस्ट , भाग of the autry नेशनल बीच in लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
It is still much  photographed लकिन it is नहीं as खूब ज्ञात आज as it  was in the past .
Nearby features include Bowl of Tears Lake ,  सीधे अंतर्गत the ईस्ट फेस of the शिखर , tuhare झीलों , in a cirque कि झूठ  south of a significant subpeak , and several other lakes .
Notable locations within include the  dotsero ज्वालामुखी ( निकट अंतरराज्यीय 70 ) , vail और aspen  .
us 24 रनों निकट the शिखर through  Gilman .
Photochrom print of  माउंट of the पावन क्रॉस  c. 1900 .
This image is a reversed view of the  पहाड़ compared to कैसा it दरअसल appears  .
The first recorded ascent of  पावन क्रॉस थी in 1873 , by F. V. hayden और फ़ोटोग्राफ़र W. H. जैक्सन दौरान  one of Hayden 's geographical surveys .
However  , the शिखर may खूब have महरूम ascended previously  by miners or American Indians .
The first winter ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by  russel keene और हावर्ड freedman of the 10th पहाड़ प्रभाग , तब stationed  at Camp Hale .
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least  चार अलग रूट , साथ the easiest और सबसे आम रूट होने the उत्तर लकीरें , जिससे involves of लंबवत लाभ  over and is rated YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling .
The Cross Couloir route forms the vertical portion of the  प्रसिद्ध क्रॉस विशेषता , और provides an उन्नत हिम चढ़ाई or चरम स्की descent  .
माउंट of the पावन क्रॉस रै a इतिहास of endangering  the lives of many hikers .
Primarily , the hikers who require rescue are unfamiliar with the risks of  प्रवेश wilderness क्षेत्रों और do नहीं लाओ पर्याप्त उपकरण और आपूर्तियाँ to respond to आपात शर्तें  .
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a long day hike , unprepared hikers  हैं अक्सर stranded or खोया due to बदलना पर्यावरणीय शर्तें और भ्रम regarding the surrounding लैंडस्केप , विशेषकर  on the descent of North Ridge .
Thorough  शोध और उचित नियोजन चाहिए prevent  most tragedies .
Mount of the Holy cross is accessible  इससे tigiwon सड़क , दक्षिण of minturn , कोलोराडो  .
The  हाफ चंद्रमा pass ट्रेल is the मानक रूट to the समिट of माउंट of the  Holy Cross via the North Ridge .
Following the Fall Creek Trail to an ascent of Notch  पहाड़ ट्रेल provides the बेहतरीन दृश्य of the पावन क्रॉस हिम विशेषता इससे पायदान  Mountain Ridge .
the जीएसएम लोगो is प्रयुक्त to पहचानो  compatible handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile  संचार , originally ' ) , is a मानक नियत विकसित by the यूरोपीय दूरसंचार मानकों संस्थान ( etsi ) to describe प्रोटोकॉल लिये दूसरी पीढी ( 2g ) डिजिटल  cellular networks used by mobile phones .
It  became the de facto वैश्विक मानक लिये  mobile communications with over 80 % market share .
The GSM standard was developed as a  बदलना लिये पहला पीढी ( 1g ) एनालॉग सेल्यूलर संजाल , और originally वर्णित a डिजिटल , सर्किट switched  network optimized for full duplex voice telephony .
This was expanded over time to include data communications , first by circuit switched  हस्तांतरण , तब पैकेट आंकड़ा हस्तांतरण via gprs ( सामान्य पैकेट रेडियो सेवाएं ) और किनारे ( उन्नत आंकड़ा दरों  for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ) .
Further improvements  यहूद बना जब the 3gpp विकसित तीसरा पीढी ( 3g ) umts मानकों followed by चौथी पीढी (  4G ) LTE Advanced standards .
`` GSM '' is a  ट्रेडमार्क स्वामित्व by the जीएसएम संघ  .
President Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट लक्षण the lend-lease विधेयक to दे सहायता to ब्रिटेन और चीन  ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease act  थी an अधिनियम जहाँ the संयुक्त राज्य था समर्थित इसके  allies .
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law that started a program  अंतर्गत जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका supplied the संयुक्त किंगडम , the ussr , गणतंत्र of चीन ,  Free France , and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945 .
it थी हस्ताक्षरित into विधि on कूच 11 , 1941 , a साल और a हाफ बाद  the outbreak of World War II in Europe in September 1939 .
This was  नौ महीने पहले the u.S. डाला the युद्ध  in December 1941 .
Formally  titled an अधिनियम to further प्रचार the रक्षा of the संयुक्त राज्य , the अधिनियम effectively  ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality .
A total of $  50 .1 अरब ( समतुल्य to $ आज ) लायक of आपूर्तियाँ यहूद shipped : $ 31.4 अरब to ब्रिटेन , $ 11.3 अरब to the सोवियत संघ , $ 3.2  billion to France , $ 1.6 billion to China , and smaller sums to other Allies .
Reverse Lend-Lease  comprised सेवाएं ऐसे as किराया on एयर bases कि गई to the u.S. , और totaled $ 7.8 अरब ; of इस  , $ 6.8 billion came from the British and the Commonwealth .
The terms of the agreement  provided कि the materiel थी to be प्रयुक्त जबतक समय लिये उनके वापसी or  destruction .
Supplies after the termination date were sold to Britain at a large  छूट लिये £1 .075 अरब using long-term लोन इससे the संयुक्त राज्य .
Canada operated a similar program  कि भेजा $ 4.7 अरब in आपूर्तियाँ to the संयुक्त किंगडम और the सोवियत संघ  .
The United States  किया नहीं चार्ज लिये सहायता supplied  under this legislation .
This  कार्यक्रम थी a निर्णायक कदम दूर इससे non-interventionist नीति , जिससे था वर्चस्व संयुक्त राज्य  foreign relations since the end of World War I , towards international involvement .
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ) , also called sunroot , sunchoke , earth apple or topinambour , is a species of sunflower native to  पूर्वी उत्तर अमेरिका , और मिला इससे पूर्वी कनाडा और maine वेस्ट to उत्तर डकोटा , और  south to northern Florida and Texas .
It is also  cultivated widely आरपार the शीतोष्ण मण्डल लिये इसके tuber , जिससे is प्रयुक्त  as a root vegetable .
Castillo San Felipe del Morro also known as Fort San Felipe del Morro or Morro  किला , is a 16th-century citadel स्तिथ in सैन जुआन , प्यूर्टो  Rico .
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in  विल्टशायर , इंग्लैण्ड , परिचय वेस्ट of amesbury और उत्तर  of Salisbury .
One of the most famous sites in the world ,  stonehenge is the remains of a रिंग of खड़ा पत्थरों नियत भीतर earthworks  .
It is in the middle of the most dense complex of  पाषाणकालीन और कांस्य आयु स्मारक in इंग्लैण्ड , सहित अनेक सौ दफ़न  mounds .
archaeologists मानना it थी निर्मित anywhere इससे  3000 BC to 2000 BC .
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the first stones  यहूद उठाया between 2400 और 2200 bc , whilst another सिद्धान्त suggests कि bluestones may have महरूम उठाया at the  site as early as 3000 BC .
The surrounding circular  धरती बैंको और खाई , जिससे constitute the earliest phase of the स्मारक ,  have been dated to about 3100 BC .
The site and its  परिवेश यहूद added to the युनेस्को 's सूची of संसार विरासत साइट in 1986 in  a co-listing with Avebury Henge .
It is  a नेशनल legally सुरक्षित अनुसूचित  Ancient Monument .
Stonehenge is  स्वामित्व by the क्राउन और प्रबंधित by अंग्रेज़ी विरासत , जबकि the surrounding  land is owned by the National Trust .
पुरातत्व प्रमाण मिला by the stonehenge riverside प्रोजेक्ट in 2008 indicates कि stonehenge could  have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings .
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that deposits contain human bone  इससे as जल्दी as 3000 bc , जब the खाई और बैंको यहूद पहला  dug .
Such  जमा जारी at stonehenge लिये at तनिक  another 500 years .
The site is a place of  धार्मिक significance और यात्राएं in  Neo-Druidry .
The NCAA Women 's Division I  चैंपियनशिप is an सालाना कॉलेज बास्केट  tournament for women .
Held each April , the Women 's  चैंपियनशिप थी उदघाटन in the 1981–82 ऋतु  .
The NCAA tournament was preceded by the  aiaw महिलाओं 's बास्केट टूर्नामेंट , जिससे थी आयोजित annually  from 1972 to 1982 .
Basketball  थी एक of बारह महिलाओं 's खेल added to the ncaa चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम लिये the 1981-82 स्कूल साल , as the ncaa सगाई in बैटल साथ  the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports .
The AIAW continued to conduct its  स्थापित चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम in the वही बारह ( और अन्य ) खेल ; however , बाद a साल  of dual women 's championships , the NCAA prevailed , while the AIAW disbanded .
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the years  , विशेषकर चूंकि 2003 , जब the फाइनल चैंपियनशिप खेल थी स्थानांतरित to the मंगलवार following the सोमवार मेन 's चैंपियनशिप  game .
The women 's  चैंपियनशिप खेल is अभी the फाइनल overall खेल of the कॉलेज  basketball season .
Before that , the Women 's Final Four was usually  निभाई on the शुक्रवार पहले the मेन 's फाइनल चार or the घंटों पहले the  men played on the final Saturday of the tournament .
the फाइनल थी प्रायः निभाई the संडे दोपहर  following the Men 's Final Four .
The  टूर्नामेंट कोष्ठक is बना up of champions  from each Division I conference , which receive automatic bids .
The remaining slots are  at-large बोलियों , साथ टीमों चुनी by an ncaa चयन कमेटी  .
The  चयन प्रक्रम और टूर्नामेंट seedings हैं आधारित on अनेक कारकों , सहित टोली rankings , win-loss रिकॉर्ड और दरजा  Percentage Index ( RPI ) data .
Unlike the  मेन 's टूर्नामेंट , वहीँ हैं तभी 32 at-large बोलियों ( as of  the next tournament in 2014 ) , and no play-in game .
The women 's tournament , like the men 's ,  is मंचन in a सिंगल विलोपन स्वरूप , और is भाग of the मीडिया और पब्लिक frenzy ज्ञात colloquially  as March Madness or The Big Dance .
सब 63 खेल have महरूम ब्रॉडकास्ट on टेलीविज़न  since 2003 on ESPN and ESPN2 .
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's  टूर्नामेंट कवरेज on सीबीएस , लोकल टीमों हैं दिखाया on प्रत्येक चैनल जब उपलब्धियाँ , साथ `` whip-around '' कवरेज designed to शोकेस the सबसे  competitive contests in the rest of the country .
The  rosetta स्टोन in the  British Museum
The Rosetta  स्टोन is an प्राचीन मिश्र granodiorite stele inscribed साथ a डिक्री जारी  at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V .
The decree appears in three scripts : the upper text is Ancient Egyptian  चित्रलिपि , the मध्य portion demotic स्क्रिप्ट , और the न्यूनतम  Ancient Greek .
Because it presents essentially the same text in all three scripts ( with some  नाबालिग मतभेद between उन्हें ) , it provided the कुंजी to the आधुनिक समझना of मिश्र चित्रलिपि  .
Originally displayed within a temple , the  स्टोन थी संभवतः स्थानांतरित दौरान the जल्दी ईसाई or मध्यकालीन काल और आखिरकार प्रयुक्त as भवन सामग्री in the निर्माण  of Fort Julien near the town of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta .
It was rediscovered there in 1799 by  a सिपाही , pierre-françois bouchard , of the  French expedition to Egypt .
As the first Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times , the Rosetta Stone aroused widespread public interest with  इसके संभावित to decipher इस hitherto untranslated प्राचीन भाषा  .
Lithographic copies and plaster casts  began circulating among यूरोपीय संग्रहालय और  scholars .
Meanwhile , British troops defeated the  फ्रेंच in मिश्र in 1801 , और the असली स्टोन आए into अंग्रेजों  possession under the Capitulation of Alexandria .
Transported to London , it has been on public display at  the अंग्रेजों संग्रहालय चूंकि 1802 .
It is the  most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट in  the British Museum .
Ever since its rediscovery  , the स्टोन रै महरूम the फ़ोकस of राष्ट्रवादी rivalries , सहित इसके ट्रांसफ़र इससे फ्रेंच to अंग्रेजों कब्ज़ा दौरान the napoleonic युद्धों , a long-running विवाद over the सापेक्ष मान  of Young 's and Champollion 's contributions to the decipherment , and since 2003 , demands for the stone 's return to Egypt .
Study of the decree was already  अंतर्गत रास्ता as the पहला पूरा अनुवाद of the यूनानी टेक्स्ट appeared in 1803  .
It was 20 years , however , before the transliteration of the Egyptian scripts  थी घोषित by jean-françois champollion in पेरिस in 1822 ; it took longer स्टिल पहले विद्वानों यहूद समर्थ to पढ़ा प्राचीन  Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently .
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three  संस्करण of the वही टेक्स्ट ( 1799 ) ; कि the demotic टेक्स्ट प्रयुक्त ध्वन्यात्मक वर्ण to वर्तनी विदेशी names ( 1802 ) ; कि the hieroglyphic टेक्स्ट किया so as खूब , और था pervasive similarities to the demotic ( थामस यंग  , 1814 ) ; and that , in addition to being used for foreign names , phonetic characters were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion , 1822–1824 ) .
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree were discovered later , and several similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions are now known , including two slightly  पहले ptolemaic डिक्री ( the डिक्री of canopus in 238 bc , और the मेम्फिस डिक्री  of Ptolemy IV , ca . 218 BC ) .
The Rosetta Stone is  इसलिए no longer अद्वितीय , लकिन it थी the अनिवार्य कुंजी to आधुनिक समझना of प्राचीन मिश्र साहित्य  and civilization .
The  पद rosetta स्टोन is अभी प्रयुक्त in अन्य contexts as the नाम लिये the अनिवार्य  clue to a new field of knowledge .
Poison dart frog ( also  dart-poison मेंढक , ज़हर मेंढक or formerly ज़हर तीर मेंढक ) is the आम  name of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America .
These species are diurnal and  प्रायः have brightly रंगीन लाशें  .
Although all wild dendrobatids are at least  somewhat विषाक्त , स्तर of toxicity vary considerably इससे एक प्रजाति to the अगला और  from one population to another .
अनेक प्रजाति हैं threatened  .
These amphibians are often  पुकारा `` डार्ट मेंढक '' due to the amerindians ' स्वदेशी उपयोग of उनके to ज़हर the  tips of blowdarts .
however , of over 175 प्रजाति , तभी चार have महरूम प्रलेखित as होने प्रयुक्त लिये इस purpose ( curare पौधे हैं अधिक commonly प्रयुक्त ) , सब of जिससे आइये इससे the  Phyllobates genus , which is characterized by the relatively large size and high levels of toxicity of its members .
Cajeta  is a मैक्सिकन confection of thickened सिरप प्रायः  made of sweetened caramelised milk .
According to chef Rick Bayless , the name for cajeta came from  the स्पेनी phrase al punto de cajeta , जिससे अर्थात् `` a द्रव thickened to the पाइंट at जिससे a चमचा drawn through the द्रव reveals the नीचे of the घट in  which it is being cooked '' .
Another  परिकल्पना is कि it takes इसके नाम इससे the छोटी  wooden boxes in which it was traditionally packed .
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato ,  हालांकि it is भी उत्पादित साथ the परंपरागत विधि in अनेक कस्बों of the राज्य of jalisco , ऐसे as mazamitla , sayula , और  Atotonilco el Alto .
Cajeta is made by  simmering बकरी 's मिल्क , or occasionally a sweetened द्रव , stirring अक्सर , जबतक it becomes बहुत viscous due to वाष्पीकरण of जल  , and caramelized .
While goat milk is the  सबसे usual आधार , अन्य liquids or रस may  be used .
In Celaya , and  आखिरकार the बाकी of मैक्सिको , the confection of हाफ बकरी 's मिल्क और हाफ गाय 's मिल्क became ज्ञात by the नाम cajeta , लकिन  elsewhere , the milk candy became known as leche quemada , dulce de leche , etc .
It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based  मिठाई जैसे प्रभा और the मिल्क फ़ज burfi , और in the ओपेरा फ़ज of the u.S. cajeta is खाया on इसके अपना as a  sweet , as a spread or filling for breads and pastries , such as churros , and as a topping for ice cream .
निश्चित liquors हैं added to खास व्यंजनों  called cajeta envinada .
In  जोड , cajeta envinada especial is समृद्ध साथ किशमिश  , almonds , pecans or nuts .
प्रायः it is प्रयुक्त as a टॉपिंग लिये crêpes , as a मीठी सॉस boiled और softened  down with milk to soak the crepes , resulting in a tasty dessert .
In  मैक्सिको अनेक ब्रांड्स मेक cajeta लकिन the  most common brand is Coronado .
It is also very  आम to प्लेस cajeta between obleas to मेक a परंपरागत  Mexican dessert .
प्रिंस विलियम , ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज ( विलियम आर्थर फिलिप लुई ; born 21 जून 1982 ) , is the elder बेटे of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स  , and Diana , Princess of Wales , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line of succession , behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth  realms : the संयुक्त किंगडम , कनाडा , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , नई जीलैंड , जमैका , बारबाडोस , the बहामा , हरा , पापुआ नई गिनी , the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स , तुवालू  , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William  थी शिक्षित at चार स्कूलों in the संयुक्त किंगडम और प्राप्त a उपाधि इससे  the University of St Andrews .
He spent parts of a gap year in  चिली , बेलीज़ , तंजानिया , और कीनिया जहाँ he रै जिया  and holidayed several times .
Prince William has also  लिया kiswahili अध्ययन at विश्वविद्यालयों in  Kenya and Tanzania .
He was commissioned as a  लेफ्टिनेंट in the ब्लूज़ और रॉयल्स रेजीमेंट of the household प्यादे —serving साथ उसके bhai प्रिंस हैरी —and , दो सालो बाद , अर्जित उसके विंग्स  by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he  transferred to the royal एयर फ़ोर्स , थी प्रचारित to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट  and underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force .
In 2010 , he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on to RAF Valley on No . 22  स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on फलक a समुद्र किंग ढूंढें और बचाव हेलीकाप्टर  .
Prince  विलियम शादीशुदा उसके longtime गर्लफ्रेंड , कैथरीन मिडलटन , on  29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey .
घंटों prior to उसके विवाह , प्रिंस विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज  , Earl of Strathearn , and Baron Carrickfergus .
माली is a बहुभाषी  country .
The  भाषाएं बोला वहीँ प्रतिबिंबित प्राचीन  settlement patterns , migrations , and its long history .
ऍथनोलॉग रिश्तो  50 languages .
Of these , French is the  आधिकारिक भाषा और bambara is the सबसे widely बोला  .
Altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of  माली have the विधिक औकात  of national language .
Sign  in फ्रेंच , at a स्मारक  in Bamako .
{  { infobox  Holiday
चाइनीज नई साल
9 – 12 February  ( वियतनाम  )
Rogers Building ,  the मुख्यालय of रोजर्स संचार
Rogers  संचार inc. is a diversified पब्लिक कनाडाई संचार  and media company .
It is particularly in the field of wireless communications , cable television ,  टेलीफोन , और अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी साथ significant अतिरिक्त दूरसंचार और द्रव्यमान मीडिया  assets .
The company is  headquartered in the रोजर्स भवन in टोरंटो  , Ontario .
The company claims the  विरासत of the रोजर्स वैक्यूम ट्यूब कम्पनी , संस्थापित in 1925 by एडवर्ड रोजर्स  , which started the CFRB radio station in Toronto , which was later acquired by outside interests .
The  उपस्थित एंटरप्राइज़ तिथियाँ to 1960 , जब रोजर्स ' बेटे ,  Ted Rogers , founded Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd .
That company acquired CHFI that year , as  खूब as aldred-rogers प्रसारण , a साझेदारी साथ जोएल aldred जिससे helped  launch CFTO in 1961 .
रोजर्स बाद खरीदा आउट aldred और प्रारंभ the वर्तमान केबल और बेतार परिचालन  , known as Rogers Cablesystems Ltd .
The  मुख्य प्रतिस्पर्धी to the कम्पनी is घंटी कनाडा , जिससे रै a similarly extensive पोर्टफोलियो of रेडियो और टेलीविज़न मीडिया एसेट , as खूब as बेतार , टेलीविज़न  distribution , and telephone services , particularly in Eastern and Central Canada ; the two companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions .
However , the company also competes nationally with Telus for wireless  सेवाएं , और primarily indirectly साथ शॉ संचार लिये टेलीविज़न  service .
The company also competes  साथ a क्रमांक of अन्य मीडिया कंपनियाँ in the प्रसारण उद्योग  .
The  अंतरजाल is a वैश्विक प्रणाली of interconnected कंप्यूटर संजाल कि उपयोग the मानक अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल  suite ( TCP/IP ) to serve billions of users worldwide .
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private ,  पब्लिक , अकादमिक , कारोबार , और सरकारी संजाल , of लोकल to वैश्विक पैमाना , कि हैं linked by a व्यापक सरणी of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक , बेतार और ऑप्टिकल  networking technologies .
The Internet carries an extensive range of information resources and  सेवाएं , ऐसे as the inter-linked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ of the संसार चौड़ी वेब ( www ) और  the infrastructure to support email .
Most traditional communications media including telephone , music , film , and television are being reshaped or redefined by  the अंतरजाल , giving जनम to नई सेवाएं ऐसे as आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) और अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल टेलीविज़न  ( IPTV ) .
Newspaper , book and other print publishing are adapting to Web  साईट प्रौद्योगिकी , or हैं reshaped into blogging  and web feeds .
The Internet has enabled and accelerated new  फ़ॉर्म of इंसान interactions through तत्काल messaging  , Internet forums , and social networking .
Online shopping has boomed  दोनो लिये प्रमुख खुदरा आउटलेट और छोटी शिल्पकार और व्यापारियों  .
Business-to-business and financial  सेवाएं on the अंतरजाल affect सप्लाई जंजीरों आरपार संपूर्ण उद्योग  .
The origins of the Internet reach back to research commissioned by the United States government in the 1960s to  निर्माण मजबूत , fault-tolerant संचार via कंप्यूटर संजाल  .
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National Science Foundation in the 1980s , as well as private funding for other commercial backbones , led to  विश्वव्यापी भागीदारी in the विकास of नई नेटवर्किंग technologies , और the विलय  of many networks .
The commercialization of what  थी by the 1990s an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संजाल resulted in इसके popularization और incorporation into  virtually every aspect of modern human life .
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the  सेवाएं of the अंतरजाल ; लगभग 100 टाइम्स अधिक लोगों than यहूद using it in 1995 , जब it थी ज़्यादातर प्रयुक्त by tech-savvy मध्य और अपर क्लास लोगों in the संयुक्त राज्य और  several other countries .
The Internet has no centralized governance in either  technological क्रियान्वयन or नीतियों लिये अभिगम और उपयोग ; प्रत्येक constituent संजाल सेट इसके  own policies .
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name spaces in  the अंतरजाल , the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल पता स्पेस और the डोमेन नाम प्रणाली , हैं निर्देशित by a maintainer संगठन , the अंतरजाल निगम  for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ) .
The technical underpinning and standardization of the core protocols ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF ) , a non-profit  संगठन of loosely संबद्ध अंतरराष्ट्रीय भागीदार कि anyone may संबद्ध साथ by contributing तकनीकी विशेषज्ञता  .
The 2006 Winter Olympics , officially known as the XX  ओलम्पिक शीत खेल , थी a शीत multi-sport इवेंट जिससे थी मनाये in टोरीनो , इटली इससे  February 10 , 2006 , through February 26 , 2006 .
This  चिह्नित the दूसरी समय इटली hosted the ओलम्पिक शीत खेल , the पहला होने the सात ओलम्पिक शीत  Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956 .
इटली भी hosted the खेल of  the XVII Olympiad in Rome in 1960 .
टोरीनो थी चयनित as the  host city for the 2006 games in 1999 .
The official logo displayed the name `` Torino '' , the Italian name of  the नगर ; the नगर is ज्ञात as `` टोरीनो '' in दोनो अंग्रेज़ी  and the local traditional language , Piedmontese .
The Olympic mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve ( ``  हिम '' in इतालवी ) , a मादा स्नोबॉल , और gliz , a पुरूष  ice cube .
the आधिकारिक motto of the xx ओलम्पिक शीत  Games was `` Passion lives here '' .
`` Help ! '' is a song  by the बीटल्स कि परोसा as the शीर्षक सोंग  for both the 1965 film and its soundtrack album .
It was also released as a single , and was number one for  तीन सप्ताह in दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य और the संयुक्त किंगडम .
`` Help ! ''  थी लिखा primarily by जॉन लेनन ,  but credited to Lennon–McCartney .
During an interview with Playboy in  1984 , पॉल mccartney stated कि the शीर्षक थी `` आउट  of desperation '' .
पोस्टर लिये the 2005  exhibition
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ) ,  जो प्रायः दिया उसके नाम as S. bing , और थी यूँ प्रायः संदर्भित erroneously as `` सैमुएल bing '' ( सैमुएल ओटो bing , 1850–1905 , थी उसके bhai ) थी a जर्मनी आर्ट डीलर जो जिया in पेरिस as an वयस्क , और जो helped introduce जापानी आर्ट और artworks to the  West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century .
Comparison of male and female  जीवन प्रत्याशा at जनम लिये देशों और territories as पारिभाषित in the 2011  CIA Factbook , with selected bubbles labelled .
The dotted line  corresponds to बराबर मादा और पुरूष  life expectancy .
The apparent 3D volumes  of the बुलबुले हैं linearly आंशिक to उनके जनसांख्यिकी  .
This is a list of countries by  जीवन प्रत्याशा at जनम  .
kennewick is a नगर in benton काउंटी in the southeastern भाग of the u.S.  state of Washington , near the Hanford nuclear site .
It is the most populous of  the तीन शहरों collectively referred to as the tri-cities ( the अन्य  being Pasco and Richland ) .
Kennewick is  स्तिथ साथ the दक्षिणपश्चिम बैंको of the कोलंबिया नदी , विपरीत  Pasco and just south of the confluence of the Columbia and Yakima rivers .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी  73,917 at the 2010 census .
April 1 , 2012 estimates from the  वॉशिंगटन राज्य दफ्तर of वित्तीय प्रबन्धन put the नगर 's जनसांख्यिकी at  75,160 .
The  निकटतम वाणिज्यिक विमानक्षेत्र is the tri-cities विमानक्षेत्र in pasco , a क्षेत्रीय वाणिज्यिक और निजी  airport .
फोर्ब्स पत्रिका नामित kennewick the # 2 क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये जॉब विकास , जबकि आसपास  Yakima was named # 1 .
The article cites the number of scientists employed by  the प्रशांत उत्तरपश्चिम नेशनल प्रयोगशाला और क्षेत्रफल farmland लिये इस आउटलुक  .
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and its derived measures of prothrombin ratio (  pr ) और अंतरराष्ट्रीय सामान्यीकृत अनुपात ( inr ) हैं उपायों of the extrinsic pathway of  coagulation .
इस परीक्षण is भी पुकारा `` protime  INR '' and `` PT/INR '' .
वे हैं प्रयुक्त to determine the clotting tendency of रक्त , in the माप  of warfarin dosage , liver damage , and vitamin K status .
PT  उपायों कारकों i ( फाइब्रिनोजेन ) , ii ( prothrombin  ) , V , VII , and X .
It is used in  संयोजन साथ the activated आंशिक thromboplastin समय ( aptt  ) which measures the intrinsic pathway .
`` I 'm in the Mood for  प्रेम '' is a लोकप्रिय सोंग  .
The  म्यूज़िक थी लिखा by jimmy mchugh  , the lyrics by Dorothy Fields .
The song was  प्रकाशित in 1935  .
It was  introduced by frances langford in the फिल्म प्रत्येक रात्रि at आठ released कि  year .
The song was featured in  the 1936 हमारी गिरोह ( छोटी दुष्टों ) छोटी , the पिंच सिंगर , सुंग by कार्ल `` अल्फाल्फा ''  Switzer , and in the 1936 film Palm Springs .
It is often known to be  switzer 's हस्ताक्षर सोंग  .
James Moody 's saxophone solo on a  1952 रिकॉर्डिंग of इस सोंग प्रेरित the सोंग `` मूडी 's मनोदशा लिये प्रेम  `` .
Hip hop artist  प्रिंस पॉल sampled the सोंग as the आधार लिये the track `` मनोदशा लिये प्रेम '' on उसके एल्बम a प्रिंस among चोरों ( 1999 ) , साथ डॉन newkirk  singing its original lyrics .
The song 's  शीर्षक प्रेरित the अंग्रेज़ी शीर्षक of वोंग kar wai 's फिल्म  In the Mood for Love .
Cross-cultural psychology is the scientific study of  इंसान बर्ताव और दिमागी प्रक्रियाओं , सहित दोनो उनके variability और invariance  , under diverse cultural conditions .
Through  expanding शोध methodologies to recognize सांस्कृतिक variance in बर्ताव , भाषा , और अर्थ  it seeks to extend and develop psychology .
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed largely in North America , some psychologists became concerned that constructs  स्वीकृत as सार्वभौमिक यहूद नहीं as निश्चर as previously assumed , विशेषकर चूंकि अनेक कोशिशें to replicate notable  experiments in other cultures had varying success .
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes , such as affect , cognition , conceptions of the  स्वः , और मुद्दे ऐसे as psychopathology , चिंता , और अवसाद , may कमी बाह्य वैध जब `` exported '' to अन्य सांस्कृतिक contexts , cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान re-examines उन्हें using methodologies designed to फ़ैक्टर in  cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance .
Although some  आलोचकों have pointed to methodological खामियां in cross-cultural मनोवैज्ञानिक शोध और अर्जी कि गंभीर त्रुटियां in the सैद्धांतिक और methodological bases प्रयुक्त impede बल्कि than सहायता the वैज्ञानिक ढूंढें लिये सार्वभौमिक सिद्धान्त in  psychology , cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur , rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry .
in 1972 the अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of cross-cultural  Psychology ( IACCP ) was established .
This branch of psychology has continued to  विस्तार as वहीँ रै महरूम an increasing लोकप्रियता of incorporating संस्कृति और विविधता  into studies .
Cross-cultural psychology is  differentiated इससे सांस्कृतिक मनोविज्ञान  .
The latter is the branch of psychology that holds that human behavior is significantly influenced  by सांस्कृतिक मतभेद , अर्थ कि मनोवैज्ञानिक phenomena can तभी be compared साथ प्रत्येक अन्य आरपार संस्कृतियों to a बहुत सीमित  extent .
In contrast ,  cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान शामिल a ढूंढें लिये संभावित universals in बर्ताव  and mental processes .
Walter J. Lonner , writing for  नजर on psi ची , रै stated कि `` cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान can be विचार of as a प्रकार शोध methodology , बल्कि than an entirely पृथक फ़ील्ड  within psychology ( 2000 ) . ''
`` Judas '' is a song by  अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार महिला गागा , इससे उसके दूसरी स्टुडियो एल्बम born  This Way ( 2011 ) .
It was released by Interscope  रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल 15 , 2011 , चार दिनों  ahead of its scheduled release .
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne , `` Judas '' is a dance  और इलेक्ट्रो हाउस सोंग परिचय a स्त्री in प्रेम साथ a man जो  betrayed her .
It embodies the incidents that  have haunted गागा in the पास्ट , और इसके कोर अर्थ refers  to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further explained that the  सोंग थी भी परिचय honoring एक 's भीतरी अंधेरा in अनुक्रम to लाओ oneself  into the light .
The  कलाकृति लिये the सिंगल थी designed  by Gaga in Microsoft Word .
In spite of a  polarizing प्रभाव on अनेक धार्मिक समूह , the सोंग थी generally खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों , जो likened the सोंग  to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single .
The song has a similar sound  to गागा 's पिछला redone-produced ट्रैक्स , सहित `` पोकर फेस `` , `` lovegame `` , `` ख़राब रोमांस  '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
it contains तीन पृथक  hooks and a house -influenced break down .
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the  विश्लेषण बात परिचय उसके as परे मोचन , regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य  of what a woman should be .
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales  खोलने , लकिन थी कम कामयाब commercially in तुलना to गागा  's previous singles .
The song reached the top ten of the  चार्ट in सबसे प्रमुख म्यूज़िक बाज़ार , और भी पहुँचे the शीर्ष of the चार्ट  in South Korea .
a म्यूज़िक वीडियो लिये the सोंग थी फिल्माया in अप्रैल 2011 , co-directed by गागा और laurieann  Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus .
It has a Biblical storyline  जहाँ reedus निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट और गागा निभाई  Mary Magdalene .
The video portrays  उन्हें as आधुनिक दिन प्रचारकों going  to Jerusalem .
It  शामिल the biblical स्टोरी of यहूदा betraying यीशु , और ended साथ गागा as  Magdalene getting stoned to death .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga  लिये the कथित उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery और उसके भूमिका in the वीडियो  .
However ,  आलोचकों generally praised the वीडियो , नहीं ढूंढना  any offensive content .
the वीडियो थी मनोनीत लिये दो पुरस्कार at the 2011  MTV Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed ``  यहूदा '' on a क्रमांक of टेलीविज़न shows , सहित the ग्राहम नॉर्टन दिखाएँ , शनिवार रात्रि सजीव , शुभ morning americas `` गर्मियाँ कॉन्सर्ट श्रेणी '' , the फ्रेंच x  Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or  avc ( उन्नत वीडियो कोडिंग ) is a मानक लिये वीडियो संपीडन , और is फिलहाल एक of the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त स्वरुप लिये the रिकॉर्डिंग , संपीडन , और वितरण  of high definition video .
the फाइनल drafting कार्य on the पहला संस्करण of the मानक  was completed in May 2003 .
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -based  कोडेक मानक विकसित by the itu-t वीडियो कोडिंग विशेषज्ञ समूह ( vceg ) साथ साथ the iso/iec jtc1 चलती चित्र  Experts Group ( MPEG ) .
The project partnership  प्रयत्न is ज्ञात as the संयुक्त वीडियो टोली ( jvt  ) .
The ITU-T H.264 standard  और the iso/iec mpeg-4 avc मानक ( formally , iso/iec 14496-10 – mpeg-4 भाग 10 , उन्नत वीडियो कोडिंग ) हैं jointly कायम  so that they have identical technical content .
H.264 is perhaps best known as  होने एक of the कोडेक मानकों लिये blu-ray discs ; सब blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी  must be able to decode H.264 .
It is also widely used by  स्ट्रीमिंग अंतरजाल स्त्रोत , ऐसे as वीडियो इससे vimeo , youtube , और the itunes स्टोर , वेब तन्त्र ऐसे as the adobe फ्लैश खिलाड़ी और microsoft silverlight , और भी विभिन्न hdtv प्रसारण  over terrestrial ( ATSC , ISDB-T , DVB-T or DVB-T2 ) , cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ) .
Non-binding arbitration is a type of  मध्यस्थता in जिससे the arbitrator makes a determination of the अधिकारों of the पार्टियों to the विवाद , लकिन इस determination  is not binding upon them , and no enforceable arbitration award is issued .
The `` award  '' is in प्रभाव an सलाहकार राय of the arbitrator 's दृश्य of the संबंधित  merits of the parties cases .
Non-binding  मध्यस्थता is प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन साथ कोशिशें to पहुँचें  a negotiated settlement .
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding  मध्यस्थता is , on the सतह , समान to कि of a मध्यस्थ in a मध्यस्थता  .
However , the  प्रिंसिपल भेद is कि whereas a मध्यस्थ होगा कोशिश to सहायता the पार्टियों ढूँढें a मध्य मैदान to सुलह at , the arbitrator remains totally  removed from the settlement process and will only give a determination of liability and , if appropriate , an indication of the quantum of damages payable .
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration , the parties remain free to pursue their claims either through the  न्यायालयों , or by रास्ता of a बाइंडिंग मध्यस्थता , हालांकि in अभ्यास a उपनिवेश  is the most common outcome .
The award and reasoning in a non-binding  मध्यस्थता is लगभग invariably inadmissible in कोई subsequent कार्रवाई in the न्यायालयों or in another मध्यस्थता  tribunal .
Non-binding arbitration  is utilised ज़्यादातर in the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा  .
It is largely unknown in Europe , although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a settlement  to jointly instruct a महारानी 's counsel लिये an राय on the merits और संभावित क्वांटम of a अर्जी , और तब to negotiate on the आधार of the दृश्य expressed in कि राय  .
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on  अगस्टाइन द्वीप in southwestern कुक इनलेट in the kenai प्रायद्वीप बरो of southcentral तटीय अलास्का , दक्षिणपश्चिम  of Anchorage .
the अलास्का ज्वालामुखी वेधशाला फिलहाल दरों माउंट अगस्टाइन as स्तर  of Concern Color Code Green for aviation and the Volcano Alert Level is at Normal .
Augustine Island has a  जमीन क्षेत्रफल of , जबकि वेस्ट द्वीप , बस बंद अगस्टाइन 's पश्चिमी shores , रै .
The island  is बना up मुख्यतः of पास्ट फटना  deposits .
Scientists have been  समर्थ to discern कि पास्ट गुम्बद पतन रै resulted in विशाल avalanches  .
A map  of बेलीज़ .
The country of  बेलीज़ रै roughly 386 km of तटरेखा , और रै अनेक मूँगा reefs  , cays , and islands in the Caribbean Sea .
Most  of ये रूप the बेलीज़ अवरोध रीफ , the longest in the  western hemisphere stemming approximately .
The reef and  इसके आइलैंड्स have महरूम a युनेस्को संसार  Heritage Site since 1996 .
The following is a list of oceanic islands of  बेलीज़ , arranged according to प्रदेश लकिन सब of जिससे  are in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of the islands  variate in स्पेलिंग between `` cay '' और `` caye '' , और भी उपयोग the स्पेनी  `` cayo '' .
River islands  have नहीं महरूम सूचीबद्ध  .
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet  लिखने अनुप्रयोग लिये the microsoft खिड़कियाँ ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली कि allows ऑप्टिकल डिस्क आंकड़ा भंडार डिवाइस to be प्रयुक्त in a manner समान  to floppy disks .
DLA  is a पैकेट लिखने प्रौद्योगिकी लिये cd और dvd मीडिया कि  uses the UDF file system .
DLA is not compatible with Windows Vista  और नए , हालांकि a पैच exists to फिक्स इस समस्या अंतर्गत खिड़कियाँ  Vista .
Roxio Burn was  introduced on अप्रैल 30 , 2009  .
As a replacement for  dla , it remedies संगतता मुद्दे  Internet Explorer 8 .
Alpha Rex Emmanuel Humbard ( August 13 , 1919 – September 21  , 2007 ) थी a well-known अमरीकी टेलीविज़न इंजीलवादी जिनकी गिरजाघर of कल दिखाएँ थी दिखाया on over 600 स्टेशन at the शिखर  of its popularity .
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller film directed by Neil Burger  और अभिनीत ब्राडली कूपर , abbie cornish , और रॉबर्ट de niro  .
It is  आधारित on the 2001 अनोखा the अंधेरा फ़ील्ड by एलन glynn साथ  the screenplay by Leslie Dixon .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest extremity of the North American  महाद्वीप , साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट , the आर्कटिक समंदर to the उत्तर  , and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the largest  राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य by क्षेत्रफल , the 4th तनिक populous और the तनिक  densely populated of the 50 United States .
लगभग हाफ of अलास्का 's 731,449 निवासियों सजीव भीतर  the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil , natural  गैस , और फ़िशिंग उद्योग ; it रै ये संसाधन in प्रचुरता  .
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30  , 1867 , लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) at लगभग  two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an  व्यवस्थित ( or incorporated ) territory on may 11 , 1912 , और the 49th राज्य of the u.S. on जनवरी  3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period , when it  थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप और is निकला इससे the aleut alaxsxaq , अर्थ `` the मेनलैंड '' or , अधिक वस्तुतः , `` the ऑब्जेक्ट towards जिससे the कार्रवाई  of the sea is directed '' .
It is also known as Alyeska , the `` great land  '' , an aleut शब्द निकला इससे the वही  root .
नेल्सन मंडेला महानगर विश्वविद्यालयों ( nmmu ) is a दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी tertiary शिक्षा संस्था  with its main administration in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth .
A merging of three  संस्थानों संस्थापित nmmu in जनवरी 2005 लकिन इसके इतिहास तिथियाँ वापस to 1882 साथ the न्यास  of Port Elizabeth Art School .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों draws अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्यार्थी  from all over the world .
There are over 3000 international students and include students from the  संयुक्त राज्य , फ़्रांस , चीन , जर्मनी , बेल्जियम , डेनमार्क , फिनलैंड  , Netherlands , Norway , Sweden , United Kingdom and many other countries .
NMMU  is a व्यापक विश्वविद्यालयों offering पेशेवर  and vocational training .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों रै छह campuses - पाँच in बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ  and one in George .
the प्रमुख कैम्पस is the दक्षिण  Campus .
विद्यार्थी at nmmu can पढ़ाई towards diplomas और डिग्री up to और सहित डॉक्टरेट स्तर  qualifications .
A number of courses include  कार्यस्थल अनुभव as भाग of the  curriculum .
covergirl is an अमरीकी कॉस्मेटिक्स ब्रांड संस्थापित in मेरीलैंड , by the noxzema रासायनिक कम्पनी ( बाद  called Noxell ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989 .
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line by allowing `` cover girls  '' , फ़ैशन मॉडल जो appear on the सामने कवर of महिलाओं 's मैगज़ीन , to पहनें इसके  products .
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct  व्यक्तिगत ग्राहक सेवा by providing a चौड़ी किस्में of कॉस्मेटिक्स उपलब्धियाँ  at reasonable prices .
On the Origin of Species , published on 24 November  1859 , is a कार्य of वैज्ञानिक साहित्य by चार्ल्स डार्विन जिससे is माना to be the न्यास of  evolutionary biology .
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural  चयन , or the संरक्षण of favoured दौड़  in the Struggle for Life .
For the sixth edition of 1872 ,  the छोटी शीर्षक थी बदला to the उत्पत्ति  of Species .
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific theory that populations evolve  over the कोर्स of पीढियां through a प्रक्रम of प्राकृतिक चयन  .
It presented a body of evidence that the diversity of life arose by common descent through a  branching पैटर्न of एवोल्यूशन  .
Darwin  शामिल प्रमाण कि he था gathered on the beagle expedition in the 1830s और उसके subsequent  findings from research , correspondence , and experimentation .
Various  विकासवादी विचार था already महरूम प्रस्तावित to बताइये  new findings in biology .
There was growing support for such  विचार among dissident anatomists और the सामान्य पब्लिक , लकिन दौरान the पहला हाफ of the 19th सदी the अंग्रेज़ी वैज्ञानिक स्थापना थी  closely tied to the Church of England , while science was part of natural theology .
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted  साथ the मान्यताओं कि प्रजाति यहूद अपरिवर्तनशील भाग of a designed पदानुक्रम और कि इंसानो यहूद अद्वितीय  , unrelated to other animals .
The  राजनैतिक और theological implications यहूद पडती debated , लकिन transmutation  was not accepted by the scientific mainstream .
The book was written for  non-specialist पाठक और आकर्षित फैली  interest upon its publication .
As Darwin was an eminent  वैज्ञानिक , उसके निष्कर्षों यहूद लिया seriously और the प्रमाण  he presented generated scientific , philosophical , and religious discussion .
The debate over the  किताब contributed to the अभियान by t.h . हक्स्ले और उसके fellow सदस्यों of the x क्लबों to secularise  science by promoting scientific naturalism .
Within two decades there was widespread  वैज्ञानिक अनुबंध कि एवोल्यूशन , साथ a branching पैटर्न of आम descent , था  occurred , but scientists were slow to give natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate .
During the  `` ग्रहण of डार्विनवाद `` इससे the 1880s to the 1930s , विभिन्न अन्य  mechanisms of evolution were given more credit .
With the  विकास of the आधुनिक विकासवादी संश्लेषण in the 1930s और 1940s , डार्विन 's अवधारणा of विकासवादी अनुकूलन through प्राकृतिक चयन became सेंट्रल  to modern evolutionary theory , now the unifying concept of the life sciences .
Charles Dillon  `` केसी '' स्टेंगल ( ; जुलाई 30 , 1890 – सितंबर 29 , 1975 ) , nicknamed `` the बूढ़ा perfessor '' , थी  an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager .
He  थी निर्वाचित to the बेसबॉल  Hall of Fame in .
Stengel was born in Kansas City , Missouri , and originally  nicknamed `` डच '' , a आम उपनाम at कि समय लिये अमेरिकी of जर्मनी ancestry  .
After his major league  करियर began , he acquired the उपनाम `` केसी '' , जिससे originally आए इससे the आद्याक्षर of उसके गृहनगर ( `` K.  C. '' ) , which evolved into `` Casey '' , influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat .
in the 1950s , sportswriters उतावले उसे साथ yet another उपनाम , `` the बूढ़ा प्राध्यापक '' ( or `` perfessor ''  ) , for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on anything baseball -related .
Although his  बेसबॉल करियर spanned a क्रमांक of टीमों और शहरों , he is  primarily associated with clubs in New York City .
between playing और मैनेजिंग , he is the तभी man to have worn चार of नई यॉर्क 's प्रमुख लीग  clubs ' uniforms .
He was the first of four men ( through the season )  to मैनेज दोनो the नई यॉर्क यांकीज़ और नई यॉर्क मेट्स ; योगी berra , डलास ग्रीन , और जो टोरेस हैं  the others .
Like Torre ,  he भी प्रबंधित the braves  and the Dodgers .
He ended his baseball  करियर as the beloved मैनेजर लिये the तब विस्तार नई यॉर्क मेट्स , जिससे जीती over the दिल of नई यॉर्क partly  due to the unique character of their veteran leader .
June ( ) is the sixth month of the year in the  जूलियन और gregorian पंचांग और एक of the चार  months with a length of 30 days .
Ovid provides two etymologies  लिये जून 's नाम in उसके कविता concerning the महीने हकदार  the Fasti .
The first is that the month is named after the Roman goddess Juno ,  बीवी of बृहस्पति और समतुल्य to the यूनानी देवी hera ; the दूसरी is कि the नाम आता इससे the लैटिन शब्द iuniores , अर्थ `` younger ones  , '' as opposed to maiores ( `` elders '' ) for which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ) .
See :  महीने in विभिन्न पंचांग भी पुकारा the ऋतु of the जून is the माह साथ the longest daylight घंटों of the साल  in the Northern Hemisphere and the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere .
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the seasonal  समतुल्य to दिसम्बर in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध और वाइस versa .
In the Northern hemisphere , the  शुरूआत of the meteorological  summer is 1 June .
In the Southern hemisphere  , the शुरूआत of the meteorological शीत  is 1 June .
At the start of June , the sun rises in the constellation of Taurus ; at  the समाप्त of जून , the सूर्य उदय in the नक्षत्र  of Gemini .
However , due to the precession of the equinoxes , June  begins साथ the सूर्य in the astrological चिह्न of मिथुन , और ends साथ the सूर्य in the astrological  sign of Cancer .
June is  ज्ञात लिये the विशाल क्रमांक of विवाह कि occur over the  course of the month .
according to एक etymology , जून  is named after Juno ( Hera ) .
Juno was the goddess of marriage  और a शादीशुदा युगल 's household , so कुछ  consider it good luck to be married in this month .
According to another etymology provided by the Roman  कवि ओविड , जून is नामित लिये the iuniores , लैटिन लिये `` यंग लोगों '' ( fasti vi.88 ) और कि the माह  of May is named for the maiores , Latin for `` elders '' .
In Iceland , folklore says that if you bathe naked in  the morning ओस on the morning of जून 24 , तुम हैं supposed to रखना वृद्धावस्था at खाड़ी  for longer .
A constitution is a set  of आधारभूत सिद्धान्त or स्थापित precedents according to  which a state or other organization is governed .
These rules  साथ मेक up , i.e  . constitute , what the entity is .
When these principles are written down into a single document or set of legal documents , those  दस्तावेज़ may be कहा to embody a लिखा संविधान ; if वे हैं लिखा bas in a सिंगल व्यापक  document , it is said to embody a codified constitution .
Constitutions concern different levels  of संगठन , इससे sovereign राज्य to कंपनियाँ और unincorporated एसोसिएशन .
A  सन्धि जिससे establishes an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन  is also its constitution , in that it would define how that organization is constituted .
Within states , whether sovereign or federated , a constitution defines the principles upon  जिससे the राज्य is आधारित , the कार्यविधि in जिससे कानून हैं बना और by  whom .
कुछ constitutions , विशेषकर संहिताबद्ध constitutions , भी अधिनियम as limiters of राज्य  power , by establishing lines which a state 's rulers can not cross , such as fundamental rights .
George Washington at  संवैधानिक सम्मेलन of 1787 , हस्ताक्षर  of U.S. Constitution .
The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution of  कोई sovereign देश in the संसार , containing 448 आलेख , 12 schedules और 100 amendments , साथ 117,369 शब्द in इसके अंग्रेज़ी भाषा संस्करण , जबकि the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान is the shortest लिखा  constitution , at 7 articles and 27 amendments .
रॉन diftler ( बाएँ ) , नासा robonaut मैनेजर assisting in a robonaut familiarization प्रशिक्षण सत्र in the स्पेस पर्यावरण सिमुलेशन  Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson Space Center .
Engineering management is a  specialized रूप of प्रबन्धन कि is चिंतित साथ the अनुप्रयोग of अभियान्त्रिकी सिद्धान्त  to business practice .
अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबन्धन is a करियर कि brings साथ the technological problem-solving savvy of अभियान्त्रिकी और the  organizational , administrative , and planning abilities of management in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion .
Example areas of engineering are product development , manufacturing ,  निर्माण , डिज़ाइन अभियान्त्रिकी , औद्योगिक अभियान्त्रिकी , प्रौद्योगिकी , उत्पादन , or कोई अन्य फ़ील्ड कि employs कर्मियों  who perform an engineering function .
Successful engineering managers  typically आवश्यकता प्रशिक्षण और अनुभव in कारोबार और अभियान्त्रिकी  .
Technically inept  प्रबंधक tend to be वंचित of support by उनके तकनीकी टोली , और non-commercial प्रबंधक  tend to lack commercial acumen to deliver in a market economy .
Largely , engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by  non-entrepreneurial सोच , यूँ आवश्यकता the जरुरी लोगों कौशल to कोच , mentor और motivate तकनीकी पेशेवर  .
Engineering professionals joining manufacturing  कंपनियाँ sometimes become अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबंधक by डिफॉल्ट बाद a काल  of time .
वे हैं जरूरी to सीख कैसा to मैनेज एकबार वे हैं on the  job , though this is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities .
In an insurance policy , the deductible is the amount of  खर्च कि जरूर be सशुल्क आउट of जेब पहले an insurer होगा अदा कोई खर्च  .
In general usage , the term deductible may be used to  describe एक of अनेक प्रकार of clauses ( देखिए नीचे ) कि हैं प्रयुक्त by बीमे कंपनियाँ as a दहलीज  for policy payments .
Deductibles are typically used to deter the large  क्रमांक of नगण्य दावा कि a उपभोक्ता can be reasonably अपेक्षित to भालू the लागत  of .
By restricting its coverage to events that are  significant पर्याप्त to incur विशाल लागत , the बीमे कड़ expects to अदा आउट थोड़ा छोटी amounts much कम अक्सर , रूष्ट  much higher savings .
As a result ,  बीमे प्रीमियम हैं typically सस्ता जब वे  involve higher deductibles .
Deductibles are normally provided as  clauses in an बीमे नीति कि dictate कैसा much of an insurance-covered व्यय is borne by the policyholder  .
They are normally  कोटेड as a फिक्स्ड मात्रा और is a भाग of सबसे नीतियों  covering losses to the policy holder .
The  insurer तब becomes liable लिये claimable खर्च कि exceed इस राशि ( विषय  to the maximum sum claimable indicated in the contract ) .
depending on the नीति , the deductible may लागू प्रति covered  incident , or per year .
For policies where incidences are not easy to delimit ( for  उदाहरण स्वास्थ्य बीमे ) , the deductible is typically लागू प्रति  year .
Several  deductibles can be नियत by the insurer  based on the cause of the claim .
For example , a single  आवास बीमे नीति may contain अनेक deductible amounts लिये घाटा or क्षति arising  from theft , fire , natural calamities , evacuation etc .
वहीँ हैं भी deductible reimbursement कार्यक्रम कि reimburse a deductible in the इवेंट of  an auto , home , boat/yacht or health insurance claim .
An invoice or bill is  a वाणिज्यिक दस्तावेज़ जारी by a विक्रेता to a खरीदार , indicating the उत्पाद , quantities  , and agreed prices for products or services the seller has provided the buyer .
An  चालान indicates the बिक्री लेनदेन  only .
Payment terms are independent of the  चालान और हैं negotiated by the खरीदार और the विक्रेता  .
भुगतान शर्तें हैं प्रायः शामिल  on the invoice .
The buyer could have already paid for the  उत्पाद or सेवाएं सूचीबद्ध on the चालान  .
Buyer can also have a maximum number of days in which to  अदा लिये ये goods और is sometimes offered a छूट  if paid before the due date .
In the rental industry , an invoice must  शामिल a विशिष्ट सन्दर्भ to the अवधि of the समय होने billed , so in जोड to मात्रा , दाम और छूट  the invoicing amount is also based on duration .
Generally each line of a rental  चालान होगा refer to the वास्तविक घंटों , दिनों , सप्ताह , महीने , etc. , होने billed  .
इससे the पाइंट of दृश्य of a विक्रेता ,  an invoice is a sales invoice .
From  the पाइंट of दृश्य of a खरीदार , an चालान  is a purchase invoice .
The document indicates the buyer and seller , but the term  चालान indicates धन is owed  or owing .
In English , the context of the term invoice is usually used to clarify  इसके अर्थ , ऐसे as `` we भेजा उन्हें an चालान '' ( वे owe us धन ) or `` we प्राप्त an चालान इससे उन्हें  '' ( we owe them money ) .
The right main bronchus ( or right primary  bronchus , or सही प्रिंसिपल bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory  system .
It is wider , shorter  , और अधिक लंबवत in दिशा than  the left .
It is about 2.5 cm long ,  और enters the सही फेफड़ों nearly विपरीत  the fifth thoracic vertebra .
The azygos vein arches over it from  पीछे ; और the सही pulmonary धमनी झूठ at पहला नीचे और  then in front of it .
परिचय 2 cm इससे इसके शुरुआत it देता बंद a  branch to the upper lobe of the right lung .
This  is termed the eparterial शाखा of the bronchus , क्युकी it arises ऊपर  the right pulmonary artery .
The  bronchus अभी गुजरता नीचे the धमनी , और is ज्ञात as the hyparterial शाखा ; it divides  into two branches for the middle and lower lobes .
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the  श्वासनली , it होगा सबसे संभावित डालें the सही प्रमुख bronchus बजाय of the बाएँ , due to the straighter संरेखण of  the right bronchus to the trachea .
Squash  is a racquet खेल निभाई by दो ( singles ) or चार खिलाड़ी ( युगल ) in a four-walled अदालत  with a small , hollow rubber ball .
The players must alternate in striking the ball with their racquet and hit  the बॉल onto the playable सतहों of the चार दीवारें  of the court .
The game was formerly called squash racquets , a  सन्दर्भ to the `` squashable '' नरम बॉल प्रयुक्त in the खेल ( compared साथ the fatter  ball used in its parent game racquets or rackets ) .
Squash is recognized  by the ioc और समर्थक हैं lobbying लिये  its incorporation in a future Olympic program .
In  2003 , फोर्ब्स रेटेड स्क्वैश  as the number one healthiest sport to play .
Residual oil is oil  मिला in कम एकाग्रता naturally or in बेहाल  oil fields .
Often mixed with water , it  can नहीं be बरामद by conventional तकनीकों  .
However , it  can be बरामद using कार्बन dioxide-enhanced आयल रिकवरी ( co2 eor ) जिससे involves injecting  carbon dioxide into the well reducing viscosity and enhancing flow of the oil .
The technique is not new but  रै नहीं महरूम प्रयुक्त extensively on अवशेष आयल zones , low-grade जमा of पेट्रोलियम ऐसे as the 38 वर्गाकार मील in the  Permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr .
the तकनीक is सीमित by उपलब्धता  of carbon dioxide .
It  करता नहीं परिणाम in sequestration of the कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड लकिन the गैस is recycled  as much as possible .
संयुक्त राज्य reserves of अवशेष आयल हैं अनुमानित  to be 100 billion barrels .
Artist 's rendering  of the आग , by जॉन R. chapin , originally मुद्रित in हार्पर 's साप्ताहिक  ; the view faces northeast across the Randolph Street Bridge .
The Great Chicago  आग थी a conflagration कि burned इससे संडे , अक्तूबर 8 , to जल्दी मंगलवार , अक्तूबर 10 , 1871 , हत्या  hundreds and destroying about in Chicago , Illinois .
Though the fire was one of the  largest u.S. आपदाओं of the 19th सदी , the पुनर्निर्माण कि began helped develop शिकागो  as one of the most populous and economically important American cities .
Henry  viii ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 जनवरी 1547 ) थी  king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He was lord , and  बाद किंग , of आयरलैंड , as खूब as continuing the नाममात्र अर्जी  by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France .
Henry was  the दूसरी monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश , succeeding  his father , Henry VII .
besides उसके छह विवाह , हेनरी viii is ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिका in the विरह of  the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church  of इंग्लैण्ड इससे papal प्राधिकार , the विच्छेद of the monasteries , और उसके अपना स्थापना as the परम् सिर of the गिरिजाघर  of England .
Yet he remained a  आस्तिक in कोर कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं , भी बाद उसके excommunication  from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the  विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ the  Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542 .
In 1513 , the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor  , maximillian i , और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल , well-equipped  army , but achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
Maximillian , for his  भाग , प्रयुक्त the अंग्रेज़ी आक्रमण to उसके अपना ends , और इस prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड  's ability to defeat the French .
This foray would prove the start of an  obsession लिये हेनरी , जो invaded again  in 1544 .
This time , Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne , but again the Holy Roman Emperor ,  चार्ल्स v , समर्थित हेनरी तभी as long as he needed to और इंग्लैण्ड , strained by the विशाल लागत of the युद्ध  , ransomed the city back for peace .
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an  आकर्षक , शिक्षित और संपन्नता किंग , और he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` एक of the सबसे charismatic शासकों to बैठना  on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling with absolute  शक्ति , he भी सगाई खुद as an लेखक और  composer .
His desire to  provide इंग्लैण्ड साथ a पुरूष वारिस – जिससे stemmed partly इससे निजी वैनिटी और partly क्युकी he believed a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate the ट्यूडर राजवंश और  the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became  रुग्ण मोटे और उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered , contributing  to his death in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised  in उसके बाद जीवन as a lustful , egotistical , हर्ष , और असुरक्षित किंग  .
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela  उत्पादित by the संयुक्त राज्य टेलीविज़न संजाल telemundo , in संयोजन साथ the एंटेना 3 संजाल और rti producciones  .
Based on a novel of the same name by  स्पेनी लेखक arturo pérez-reverte , the नाटक depicts the वृद्धि of टेरेसा मेंडोज़ा ( केट डेल कैस्टिलो ) , a यंग स्त्री इससे मैक्सिको जो becomes the  most powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain .
Patricio Wills , the  अध्यक्ष of telemundo टेलीविज़न studios , थी the  executive producer .
हालांकि la reina डेल सूर थी मनोनीत लिये novela of the साल , पसंदीदा सीसे  Actress , and Best Bad Luck Video , it won no awards .
With a $ 10 million budget , La Reina del  सूर थी the सबसे महंगी telenovela कभी उत्पादित by telemundo .
the कार्यक्रम 's प्रीमियर on फ़रवरी 28 , 2011 , थी  the network 's highest rated premiere for a telenovela to date .
The program  अक्सर वर्चस्व इसके समय स्लॉट , भी over अंग्रेज़ी भाषा प्रोग्रामिंग  on other major U.S. networks .
La Reina del Sur completed its 63 episode run on Telemundo  और इसके 13 एपीसोड चलाएं on एंटेना 3 simultaneously on may 30 , 2011  .
The final episode was the highest rated  ब्रॉडकास्ट in telemundo 's 19-year इतिहास ( 4.2 लाख दर्शक ) , और ताल सब of the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा u.S. टेलीविज़न  networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic .
The program 's success  spurred telemundo to लॉन्च इसके पहला अभियान to लाभ  the series an Emmy Award nomination .
A one-night  खास featuring अनेक डाल सदस्यों aired on may 31 , 2011 , और चिह्नित the telemundo डेब्यू of विख्यात  Latina television personality Cristina Saralegui .
La Reina del Sur is broadcast in several other  बाज़ार , सहित सर्बिया , कोलंबिया , चिली , साइप्रस , निकारागुआ , कोस्टा रिका , मैक्सिको , अल्बानियाई , हंगेरियाई  , Slovenia , Croatia , Romania , ( among others ) .
an उदाहरण of  rack mounted servers
A web  होस्टिंग सेवा is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग सेवा कि allows individuals और संगठन  to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned or  leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट , as खूब as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी , typically  in a data center .
Web hosts can also provide data center space  और कनेक्टिविटी to the अंतरजाल लिये अन्य सर्वर स्तिथ in उनके आंकड़ा बीच  , called colocation , also known as Housing in Latin America or France .
the पैमाना of वेब होस्टिंग सेवाएं  varies greatly .
The most basic is web  पेज और small-scale संचिका होस्टिंग , जहाँ फाइलें can be अपलोड via संचिका ट्रांसफ़र  Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface .
The  फाइलें हैं प्रायः वितरित to the वेब  `` as is '' or with minimal processing .
Many Internet service  प्रदाताओं ( isps ) प्रस्ताव इस सेवा फ़्री to  subscribers .
Individuals and organizations  may भी obtain वेब पेज होस्टिंग इससे वैकल्पिक सेवा  providers .
Personal web site  होस्टिंग is typically फ़्री , advertisement-sponsored , or  inexpensive .
Business web site  होस्टिंग प्रायः रै a उच्चतर व्यय depending upon the आकार  and type of the website .
Single page hosting is generally  sufficient लिये निजी वेब पृष्ठों  .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that  provides डेटाबेस support और अनुप्रयोग विकास प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g . पीएचपी , जावा , माणिक्य on rails  , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow customers to  लिखें or स्थापना स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग  like forums and content management .
Also , Secure Sockets  परत ( एसएसएल ) is typically प्रयुक्त लिये  e-commerce .
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the  वेब सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट , as खूब as अन्य मौड्यूल और सेवा अनुप्रयोग जैसे e-mail  .
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g . e-commerce ) ,  जिससे हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by larger कंपनियाँ कि outsource संजाल अवसंरचना  .
Madden NFL (  ज्ञात as जॉन मैडेन फ़ुटबॉल पहले 1993 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल वीडियो खेल श्रेणी  developed by Electronic Arts Tiburon for EA Sports .
The game series is named after Pro Football Hall  of famer जॉन मैडेन , a well-known पूर्व सुपर कटोरी –winning कोच of the  Oakland Raiders and color commentator .
The series  is the बेहतरीन selling ea खेल  series .
The  खेल have consistently महरूम a बेहतरीन विक्रेता , और रै  even spawned TV shows where players compete .
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated  playbooks और खिलाड़ी आंकडे , और आवाज़ commentary कि allows खिलाड़ी to सुन the खेल as if it यहूद a रियल tv ब्रॉडकास्ट .
The Madden NFL series has been  nicknamed the एनएफएल 's 33rd मताधिकार  .
The series was originally conceived by  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला संस्थापक ट्रिप हॉकिन्स , जो तब approached मैडेन in 1984 लिये उसके समर्थन और विशेषज्ञता  .
Due  to मैडेन 's insistence कि the खेल be as यथार्थवादी as संभावित  , the first version of John Madden Football was not released until 1988 .
The  दूसरी संस्करण of the खेल थी released in 1990 , साथ सालाना संस्करण  since then .
The series ' name was changed to Madden  एनएफएल in 1993 बाद ea acquired the अधिकारों to उपयोग एनएफएल टीमों और  players .
Despite Madden 's  रिटायरमेंट as a प्रसारणकर्ता in 2009 , he continues to lend उसके नाम  and provide expertise for the game .
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born  जुलाई 10 , 1957 ) is an अमरीकी antiwar activist जिनकी बेटे , u.S. फौज विशेषज्ञ केसी sheehan  , was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War .
She attracted national and international media attention in August 2005 for her extended  antiwar विरोध at a makeshift शिविर बाहर अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश 's टेक्सास ranch —a स्टैंड कि खींचा दोनो  passionate support and angry criticism .
Sheehan ran  unsuccessfully लिये कॉंग्रेस in  2008 .
She is a vocal  आलोचक of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा 's विदेशी  policy .
Her memoir , Peace  माँ : a माँ 's यात्रा through heartache to सक्रियता ,  was published in 2006 .
sheehan थी the 2012 vice-presidential nominee  of the Peace and Freedom Party .
wyclef jeanelle जां ( ; ; born अक्तूबर 17 , 1969 ) wyclef  Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME , Aug 21 , 2010 .
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he  थी कार्यशील लिये अध्यक्ष of हैती , wyclef जां थी स्टिल लिस्टिंग  his age as only 37 years old .
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate , the  haitian-american-irish hip-hop स्टार भी decided to आइये साफ और confirm कि he थी वाकई 40 . '' is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning haitian-american rapper , singer-songwriter , संगीतकार ,  record producer , and politician .
At age nine , Jean moved to the United  राज्य साथ उसके परिवार और रै खर्च much of उसके  life in the country .
He first received fame as a member of  the acclaimed नई जर्सी हिप हॉप समूह the  Fugees .
On  अगस्त 5 , 2010 , जां दायर लिये उम्मीदवारी in the 2010 haitian अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , हालांकि the चुनावी आयोग subsequently शासित उसे अयोग्य  to stand as he had not met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti for five years .
Wyclef  जां to अपील विरूद्ध हैती चुनाव सत्ताधारी – बीबीसी न्यूज , अगस्त  22 , 2010 .
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr  जां थी अयोग्य to स्टैंड as the haitian संविधान requires उम्मीदवार to have जिया in the देश  for five years prior to an election .
the 40-year-old सिंगर जीवनदान  in the US .
Jean 's efforts at  भूकंप राहत , अत्यधिक publicized in 2010 throughout हैती और the संयुक्त राज्य , यहूद channeled through उसके charitable  organization , Yéle Haiti .
The charity , which performed a variety of  charitable works in हैती between 2005 और 2010  , effectively closed in 2012 .
In law , a set-off is a statutory defense to  the पूरे or to a portion of a अभियोक्ता 's अर्जी  .
It had no existence under the English  आम विधि , होने निर्मित by 2 जियो . ii c. 22 लिये the राहत of insolvent कर्जदार ,  although set-off was recognized in equity .
Such a defense could be pleaded  तभी in आदर of परस्पर debts of a definite अक्षर  , and did not apply to cases in which damages were claimed , nor to equitable claims or demands .
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX . r. 3 ) a defendant in an  कार्रवाई may नियत बंद or नियत up कोई सही or अर्जी by रास्ता of counterclaim विरूद्ध the दावा of a अभियोक्ता ,  and such set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action .
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally  introduced to prevent the अन्यायपूर्ण हालात whereby a व्यक्ति ( `` पार्टी a '' ) जो owed धन to another ( `` पार्टी b '' ) could be भेजा to कर्जदार थाना , despite the फैक्ट  that Party B also owed money to Party A .
The law thus allows both parties to defer payment until  उनके संबंधित दावा have महरूम सुना  in court .
Upon judgment , both claims are extinguished and replaced by a single net sum owing ( e.g . If Party A owes  पार्टी b 100 और पार्टी b owes पार्टी a 105 , the दो रकम हैं नियत बंद और replaced साथ a सिंगल दायित्व of 5 इससे  Party B to Party A ) .
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual agreement so that ,  जहाँ a पार्टी मूलभूत , the परस्पर amounts owing हैं automatically नियत बंद और बुझे  .
In certain jurisdictions ( including the  uk ) , set-off takes प्लेस automatically upon the  insolvency of a company .
This means that , for each party which is both a creditor and debtor of the  insolvent कम्पनी , परस्पर debts हैं set-off विरूद्ध प्रत्येक अन्य , और तब either the दिवालिया 's creditor can अर्जी the संतुलन in the दिवालियापन  or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid , depending on which side owed the most .
This has  महरूम criticized as an undeclared सुरक्षा ब्याज  that violates the principle of pari passu .
The alternative , where a creditor has to pay all its debts  , लकिन प्राप्त तभी a सीमित portion of the leftover moneys कि अन्य unsecured लेनदारों  get , poses the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies .
The right  to नियत बंद is विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण जब रिपोर्टिंग  a bank 's exposures to regulatory authorities .
The situation where a  बैंको रै to रपट कि it रै lent a विशाल योग to a borrower ( और is इसलिए उजागर , क्युकी वहीँ is a रिस्क कि the borrower might डिफॉल्ट thereby अग्रणी to the घाटा of the बैंको 's or इसके जमाकर्ताओं ' धन ) is यूँ replaced (  where the bank has taken security over shares or securities of the borrower ) with an exposure of the money lent minus the value of the security taken .
Jennifer Joanna Aniston ( born February 11 , 1969 ) is  an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , फिल्मी निदेशक , और निर्माता  .
Aniston gained worldwide  मान्यता in the 1990s लिये portraying रेचल ग्रीन on the टेलीविज़न sitcom मित्रों , a भूमिका  which earned her an Emmy Award , a Golden Globe Award , and a Screen Actors Guild Award .
एनिस्टन रै भी enjoyed a कामयाब  Hollywood film career .
She gained critical acclaim for  उसके प्रदर्शन in the स्वतंत्र films वो 's the एक ( 1996 ) , दफ्तर स्पेस ( 1999 ) ,  The Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ) .
She has had her greatest commercial successes with the films Bruce Almighty ( 2003  ) , the break-up ( 2006 ) , मार्ले & me ( 2008 ) , बस go साथ it ( 2011 ) और भयानक bosses  ( 2011 ) .
Aniston received a  स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of कीर्ति on फ़रवरी  22 , 2012 .
a श्वेत बंगाल बाघ at the  Houston Aquarium
(  वीडियो  )
A White tiger  at tobu चिड़ियाघर , in saitama  , Japan .
the श्वेत बाघ is a recessive म्यूटेंट of the बंगाल बाघ , जिससे थी reported in the जंगली इससे  time to time in Assam , Bengal , Bihar and especially from the former State of Rewa .
Conventional  पीसीआई ( पीसीआई is an initialism formed इससे परिधीय घटक इंटरकनेक्ट , भाग of the पीसीआई लोकल बस मानक  and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus  supports the कृत्यों मिला on a प्रोसेसर बस , लकिन in a मानकीकृत  format that is independent of any particular processor .
Devices  कनेक्ट to the बस appear to the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट सीधे to the  processor bus , and are assigned addresses in the processor 's address space .
Attached devices can take either the  रूप of an एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड itself , पुकारा a planar यंत्र in the पीसीआई specification  , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI  लोकल बस थी पहला implemented in ibm pc compatibles , जहाँ it विस्थापित the संयोजन of isa  plus one VESA Local Bus as the bus configuration .
It has subsequently  महरूम अपनाया लिये अन्य कंप्यूटर  types .
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI  एक्स्प्रेस , लकिन , सबसे motherboards हैं स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई स्लॉट , जिससे हैं  sufficient for many uses .
The PCI specification covers the physical size of  the बस ( सहित the आकार और अंतरण of the सर्किट फलक किनारे विद्युत सम्पर्क ) , विद्युत विशेषताएँ  , bus timing , and protocols .
The  specification can be खरीदा इससे the पीसीआई खास ब्याज समूह  ( PCI-SIG ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include :  संजाल ताश , ध्वनि ताश , modems , अतिरिक्त पोर्ट ऐसे as usb or सीरियल , tv ट्यूनर ताश और डिस्क परिरक्षक  .
PCI video cards replaced ISA  और vesa ताश , जबतक growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ outgrew the सामर्थ्य of पीसीआई ; the पसन्दीदा इंटरफ़ेस  for video cards became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI video cards  remain उपलब्धियाँ लिये उपयोग साथ बूढ़ा pcs बगैर अगप or  PCI Express slots .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now  commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in सार्वभौमिक सीरियल बस और पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस संस्करण  .
कैफीन is a कड़वा , श्वेत crystalline xanthine एल्कलॉएड कि अधिनियमों  as a stimulant drug .
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds , leaves , and fruit of some plants ,  जहाँ it अधिनियमों as a प्राकृतिक कीटनाशक कि paralyzes और मारता निश्चित कीट feeding on the पौधे , as खूब as बढ़ाना the बदला मेमोरी  of pollinators .
It is most commonly consumed by humans in infusions extracted  इससे the बीज of the कॉफी संयंत्र और the पत्ते of the चाय बुश , as खूब as इससे विभिन्न भोजन और पेय containing उत्पाद निकला इससे  the kola nut .
Other sources  शामिल yerba maté , guarana जामुन , guayusa , और the yaupon  holly .
In humans , caffeine acts as a  सेंट्रल बेचैन प्रणाली उत्तेजक , temporarily warding बंद drowsiness  and restoring alertness .
it is the संसार 's सबसे widely खपत psychoactive ड्रग , लकिन नापसंद अनेक अन्य psychoactive  substances , it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world .
Beverages  containing कैफीन , ऐसे as कॉफी , चाय , नरम पेय , और उर्जा  drinks , enjoy great popularity .
in उत्तर अमेरिका , 90 % of वयस्कों  consume caffeine daily .
Part of the  कारण कैफीन is वर्गीकृत by the खाना और ड्रग प्रशासन as ग्रा ( generally पहचाना as सुरक्षित ) is कि विषाक्त doses ( over  10 grams ) are much higher than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ) .
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks , even when carried on for  सालो – वहीँ may be a modest सुरक्षात्मक प्रभाव विरूद्ध कुछ रोगों , सहित parkinsons बीमारी ,  and certain types of cancer .
Caffeine can  have दोनो धनात्मक और ऋणात्मक प्रभाव on चिंता  disorders .
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine ,  विशेषकर दौरान the संध्या घंटों , लकिन अन्य दिखाएँ छोटी disturbance और the प्रभाव of कैफीन on नींद is अत्यधिक परिवर्तनीय .
Evidence of a  रिस्क to गर्भावस्था is equivocal , लकिन कुछ अधिकारियों have concluded कि दूरदर्शी सलाह is लिये  pregnant women to limit consumption to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less .
The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists ( ACOG  ) concluded in 2010 कि कैफीन खपत is सुरक्षित up to 200 mg प्रति दिन in गर्भवती महिलाओं  .
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects when administered to people who are not used to it , but regular users develop a  सहिष्णुता to इस प्रभाव , और अध्ययन have generally विफल to support the आम ख़्याल कि ordinary खपत contributes significantly to निर्जलीकरण  .
With heavy use , tolerance develops rapidly to  autonomic प्रभाव ऐसे as elevated दिल रेट और मांसपेशी twitching , लकिन नहीं to the  cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine .
The degree to which caffeine can  उपज clinically significant शारीरिक और दिमागी dependence remains a विषय  of controversy in the medical literature .
A  kicktail क्रूजर
A  longboard is a longer रूपांतर of a स्केटबोर्ड  .
It is  commonly प्रयुक्त लिये cruising , downhill रेसिंग , slalom रेसिंग , स्लाइडिंग , and/or  transport .
स्त्रोत बाहर of विकिपीडिया दे  differing estimates:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est . ) and the distribution of religions as Christian 100 % ( of  जिससे रोमन कैथोलिक 18.85 % , प्रोटोस्टेंट 8.15 % , परंपरागत 4.96 % , anglican 1.26 % ) , मुस्लिम 22.74 % , हिन्दू 13.8 % , बौद्ध 6.77 % , सिखों 0.35 % , यहूदी 0.22 % , baha'i 0.11 % , अन्य धर्मों 10.95 % ,  non-religious 9.66 % , atheists 2.01 % .
( 2010 est  . ) .
The  coast सीमाएँ of कैलिफ़ोर्निया स्पैन इससे हम्बोल्ट काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  south to Santa Barbara County .
The other three coastal California  पहाड़ सीमाएँ हैं the अनुप्रस्थ  Ranges , Peninsular Ranges and the Klamath Mountains .
Physiographically , they are  a खण्ड of the larger प्रशांत किनारा प्रांत , जिससे in फेरे हैं भाग of the larger  Pacific Mountain System physiographic division .
UNESCO has included the `` California Coast Ranges Biosphere  आरक्षित `` in इसके man और the जीवमंडल कार्यक्रम of संसार संजाल of  Biosphere Reserves since 1983 .
Vehicles  in उपयोग प्रति देश इससे  2001 to 2007 .
It shows the  significant विकास in bric .
World map of  यात्री गाड़ियाँ प्रति 1000  people
An automobile , autocar , motor car or car is a  wheeled मोटर गाडी प्रयुक्त लिये transporting यात्री , जिससे भी carries इसके अपना इंजन  or motor .
सबसे परिभाषाएं of the पद बताएँ कि ऑटोमोबाइल हैं designed to चलाएं primarily on सड़कें , to have seating लिये एक to आठ लोगों , to typically have चार पहियों , और to  be constructed principally for the transport of people rather than goods .
The term motorcar has also been used in the context of  electrified रेल प्रणालियों to denote a car जिससे कृत्यों as a छोटी लोकोमोटिव लकिन भी provides  space for passengers and baggage .
ये लोकोमोटिव गाड़ियाँ यहूद प्रायः प्रयुक्त on suburban  routes by both interurban and intercity railroad systems .
It was estimated in 2010 that the number of  ऑटोमोबाइल था risen to over 1 अरब वाहनों , up इससे  the 500 million of 1986 .
The numbers are  increasing rapidly , विशेषकर in चीन और इण्डिया  .
John  fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी ( may 29 , 1917 – नवम्बर 22 , 1963 ) , प्रायः referred to by उसके  initials JFK , was the 35th President of the United States , serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service  as कमांडर of the मोटर torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और pt-59 दौरान संसार युद्ध ii in the दक्षिण प्रशांत , कैनेडी  represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
Thereafter , he served in  the u.S. सीनेट इससे 1953 जबतक 1960 .
Kennedy  पराजित वाइस अध्यक्ष और रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी  Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to have  महरूम निर्वाचित to the दफ्तर , the second-youngest अध्यक्ष ( बाद थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ) , और the पहला व्यक्ति born in  the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy  is the तभी non- प्रोटोस्टेंट अध्यक्ष , और is the  only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
कार्यक्रम दौरान उसके प्रेसिडेंसी शामिल the खाड़ी of सूअर आक्रमण , the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट , the भवन  of the Berlin Wall , the Space Race , the African-American Civil Rights Movement , and early stages of the Vietnam War .
therein , कैनेडी increased the क्रमांक of सैन्य advisers , खास  operation forces , and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia .
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the Strategic Hamlet Program  जिससे थी implemented by the दक्षिण वियतनामी सरकारी  .
It  शामिल निश्चित मजबूर relocation , गाँव internment , और पृथक्करण of ग्रामीण दक्षिण  Vietnamese from the northern and southern communist insurgents .
Kennedy was  assassinated on नवम्बर 22 , 1963 in डलास , टेक्सास .
ली घनघोर ओसवाल्ड थी चार्ज साथ the अपराधों , लकिन he थी शॉट और मारे by जोकर माणिक्य दो  days later , before a trial could take place .
The FBI  और the वारेन आयोग officially concluded  that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However , the United States House  चुनें कमेटी on assassinations ( hsca ) concluded  that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
However , ABC News in their investigation , The Kennedy Assassination :  परे षड्यंत्र , पुष्टि the निष्कर्षों of the वारेन आयोग ; having  concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber  कार्यक्रम led to a congressional छानबीन कि lasted  from 1963 to 1970 .
Since the 1960s information concerning  कैनेडी 's निजी जीवन रै आइये to लाइट  .
विवरण of कैनेडी 's स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं in जिससे he struggled have become बेहतर  known , especially since the 1990s .
Although initially  रखा रहस्य इससे the सामान्य पब्लिक , रिपोर्ट्स of कैनेडी  's philandering have garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks  अत्यधिक in पब्लिक राय दरजा  of U.S. presidents .
A  siemens mxl आग सचेतक कंट्रोल फलक ( शीर्ष ) और ग्राफिक annunciator ( नीचे  ) for Potomac Hall , at James Madison University .
A Vigilant VM-1  आग सचेतक कंट्रोल ईकाई ( facu ) / autonomous कंट्रोल ईकाई ( acu ) साथ एकीकृत आवाज़ निकासी  and fire fighter telephone system .
manufactured by एडवर्ड्स  , A UTC F & S Company
A Fire Alarm Control  फलक ( facp ) , or आग सचेतक कंट्रोल ईकाई ( facu ) , is the controlling घटक  of a Fire Alarm System .
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect  परिवर्तन संबद्ध साथ आग , मॉनीटर उनके operational अखंडता और provides लिये स्वचालित कंट्रोल of उपकरण , और हस्तांतरण of सूचना  necessary to prepare the facility for fire based on a predetermined sequence .
The panel may also  सप्लाई विद्युत उर्जा to operate कोई संबद्ध सेंसर  , control , transmitter , or relay .
वहीँ हैं चार मौलिक प्रकार of panels : coded panels , conventional  panels , addressable panels , and multiplex systems .
This is a list of  the पहला म्यूज़िक वीडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट on एमटीवी 's  first day , August 1 , 1981 .
MTV 's  पहला दिन on the एयर थी rebroadcast on vh1 क्लासिक in 2006 और अपलोड onto youtube in 2010 ( हालांकि तभी  the first four hours were authentic ; the rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ) .
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as Katunayake  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र और कोलोन अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र ) is एक of the दो अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयरपोर्ट सेवारत the नगर of कोलोन , the  other is Ratmalana International Airport .
Mattala Rajapaksa  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र स्तिथ in दक्षिणी नगर of hambantota  is the other international airport in Sri Lanka .
Bandaranaike International  विमानक्षेत्र is स्तिथ in katunayake , 22  miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo .
It is administered by  विमानक्षेत्र और विमानन सेवाएं ( श्री लंका ) ltd .
It is the  हब of श्रीलंकन एयरलाइंस , the नेशनल वाहक of श्री लंका , और mihin लंका  , the budget airline of Sri Lanka .
Black Swan is a 2010 American  मनोवैज्ञानिक थ्रिलर और हॉरर फिल्मी निर्देशित by डैरेन aronofsky और अभिनीत नताली पोर्टमैन , विंसेंट cassel , और  Mila Kunis .
The plot revolves around a production of  tchaikovsky 's swan झील बैले by a prestigious नई यॉर्क नगर  company .
The production requires a ballerina to play the innocent and fragile White  swan , लिये जिससे the वचनबद्ध नर्तकी नीना ( पोर्टमैन ) is a पूर्ण अनुरूप , as खूब as the अंधेरा और कामुक ब्लैक swan , जिससे हैं qualities समाविष्ट  by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ) .
Nina is overwhelmed by a feeling of  immense दबाव जब वो पाता herself स्पर्धा लिये the भाग , causing उसके to खोना उसके tenuous पकड़ on वास्तविकता  and descend into a living nightmare .
Aronofsky conceived the premise  by connecting उसके viewings of a उत्पादन of swan झील साथ an unrealized पटकथा परिचय understudies और the ख़्याल of होने haunted  by a double , similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers .
Aronofsky cites Fyodor Dostoyevsky 's `` The  दोगुना `` as another प्रेरणा लिये  the film .
The director also considered  ब्लैक swan a साथी टुकड़ा to उसके 2008 फिल्मी the पहलवान , साथ  both films involving demanding performances for different kinds of art .
He and Portman first discussed the project in 2000 , and after a brief attachment to  सार्वभौमिक studios , ब्लैक swan थी उत्पादित in नई यॉर्क नगर in 2009 by फॉक्स searchlight  Pictures .
Portman and Kunis  प्रशिक्षित in बैले लिये अनेक महीने prior to फिल्मांकन , और notable आंकड़े इससे the बैले संसार helped साथ फिल्मी उत्पादन to  shape the ballet presentation .
The film premiered  as the खोलने फिल्मी लिये the 67th वेनिस  International Film Festival on September 1 , 2010 .
It had a limited release in the  संयुक्त राज्य starting दिसम्बर 3 , 2010 और खोली देशभर on  December 17 .
Black Swan received critical praise upon its release , particularly for  पोर्टमैन 's प्रदर्शन और aronofsky 's दिशा , और थी a significant  box office success , grossing $ 329 million worldwide .
The film received five Academy Award nominations and Portman won the Best  अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार लिये the फिल्मी , as खूब as अनेक अन्य बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार in अनेक guilds और त्यौहार , जबकि aronofsky थी मनोनीत  for Best Director .
In  जोड , the फिल्मी itself प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन  Picture .
The world’s first ice-calorimeter , used in the winter of 1782-83 , by Antoine Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon  लाप्लास , to determine the ऊष्मा शामिल in विभिन्न रासायनिक परिवर्तन ; calculations  which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat .
These experiments  चिह्नित the न्यास of thermochemistry  .
A  ऊष्मामापी ( इससे लैटिन calor , अर्थ ऊष्मा ) is an ऑब्जेक्ट प्रयुक्त लिये कैलोरीमिति  , or the process of measuring the heat of chemical reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity .
Differential scanning calorimeters ,  समतापी microcalorimeters , titration calorimeters और त्वरित रेट  calorimeters are among the most common types .
A simple calorimeter just  consists of a थर्मामीटर संलग्न to a मेटल  container full of water suspended above a combustion chamber .
To find the enthalpy change per mole of  a पदार्थ a in a प्रतिक्रिया between दो substances a और b , the substances हैं added to a ऊष्मामापी और the आरंभिक और  final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after it has finished ) are noted .
Multiplying the temperature change by the mass and  विशिष्ट ऊष्मा capacities of the substances देता a मान लिये the उर्जा दिए बंद  or absorbed during the reaction .
dividing the उर्जा बदलें by कैसा अनेक औज़ार  of A were present gives its enthalpy change of reaction .
This method is used  primarily in अकादमिक शिक्षण as it describes the सिद्धान्त of  calorimetry .
It does not account for the  ऊष्मा घाटा through the संग्राहक or the ऊष्मा क्षमता of the थर्मामीटर  and container itself .
In addition , the object placed inside the calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their heat to the  ऊष्मामापी और into the द्रव , और the ऊष्मा अवशोषित by the ऊष्मामापी और the द्रव is बराबर to the ऊष्मा दिए बंद  by the metals .
A pair of  ग्रीन flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri , thongs , jandals , or a variety of  अन्य names throughout the संसार ) हैं a प्रकार of open-toed चन्दन typically worn in कैज़ुअल परिस्थितियों  , such as outside or at the beach .
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on the foot by  a y-shaped डोरी कि गुजरता between the पहला और दूसरी toes और around either पक्ष of the पैर  .
They  may भी be आयोजित to the पैर साथ a सिंगल डोरी over the सामने  of the foot rather than a thong .
The name `` flip-flop ''  originated क्युकी of the ध्वनि कि is बना by slapping between the  sole of the foot and the floor when walking .
This style of footwear has  महरूम worn by the लोगों of अनेक संस्कृतियों throughout the संसार , originating as जल्दी  as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 B.C .
The modern  flip-flop उतरता इससे the जापानी zōri , जिससे became लोकप्रिय बाद संसार युद्ध  II when soldiers returning to the United States brought them back .
वे became लोकप्रिय in कैज़ुअल जमावट दौरान the 1960s , 1990s , और 2000s , और कुछ किस्में have भी मिला  their way into more formal attire , despite criticism .
The use of flip-flops  can परिणाम in अनेक pains और चोटों ,  including ankle sprains and broken bones .
Some individuals who  चलना लिये long अवधि रपट  pain in the feet , ankles , and lower legs .
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often results in  over-pronation चोटों , caused by the पैर घुसते inwards further  than normal .
This can lead  to चपटा फीट और tendonitis  .
Other injuries that may  परिणाम हैं due to the जूते 's open-toed प्रकृति , ऐसे as stubbed  toes , cuts , and bruises .
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with  thick-cushioned सोल्स , as खूब as those कि have a डोरी कि is नहीं कैनवास  and that comes back almost to the ankle .
The owners of Hanjin Osaka , seen here transiting the  पनामा कनाल in 2008 , घोषित सामान्य औसत following an विस्फोट in the  ship 's engine room on .
The law of general average is a legal  principle of मेरीटाइम विधि according to जिससे सब पार्टियों in a समुद्र venture proportionally share कोई नुकसान resulting इससे a voluntary  sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency .
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea , crew members often have precious little time in which to  determine precisely जिनकी कार्गो वे हैं jettisoning  .
Thus , to avoid quarrelling that could waste valuable time , there  arose the निष्पक्ष अभ्यास whereby सब the व्यापारियों जिनकी कार्गो उतरा सकुशल होता be पुकारा on  to contribute a portion , based upon a share or percentage , to the merchant or merchants whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril .
While general average traces its origins in ancient  मेरीटाइम विधि , स्टिल it remains भाग of the admiralty विधि of सबसे  countries .
the पहला संहिताकरण of सामान्य औसत थी the यॉर्क antwerp  Rules of 1890 .
अमरीकी कंपनियाँ स्वीकृत it in 1949  .
General average requires three  तत्व जिससे हैं clearly stated by mr. इंसाफ grier in बर्नार्ड v.  Adams:
``  1st .
A common danger : a  खतरे in जिससे पोत , कार्गो और क्रू सब participate ; a खतरे निकट और जाहिर 'inevitable , ' मगर by voluntarily रूष्ट  the loss of a portion of the whole to save the remainder . ''
`` 2nd . There must be a voluntary jettison , jactus , or casting  दूर , of कुछ portion of the संयुक्त चिंता लिये the purpose of बचने इस निकट peril , periculi imminentis evitandi causa , or , in अन्य  words , a transfer of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole . ''
`` 3rd  .
This  attempt to avoid the निकट आम peril जरूर  be successful '' .
उदाहरण पॉलिश कॉल लिये टीकाकरण  against Diphtheria and Tetanus .
A  टीकाकरण अनुसूची is a श्रेणी of vaccinations , सहित the समय of सब doses ,  which may be either recommended or compulsory , depending on the country of residence .
A vaccine is an  antigenic तैयारी प्रयुक्त to उपज क्रियाशील प्रतिरक्षण to a बीमारी , in अनुक्रम to prevent or reduce the प्रभाव of संक्रमण by कोई प्राकृतिक or `` जंगली  '' pathogen .
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum  प्रभावकारिता , either to उपज sufficient आरंभिक प्रतिरक्षा जवाब or to बूस्ट जवाब  that fades over time .
For  उदाहरण , टेटनस टीका boosters हैं प्रायः अनुशंसित  every 10 years .
टीका schedules हैं विकसित by सरकारी एजेंसियों or physicians समूह to achieve अधिकतम  effectiveness using required and recommended vaccines for a locality while minimizing the number of health care system interactions .
Over the past two decades , the  अनुशंसित टीकाकरण अनुसूची रै grown rapidly और become अधिक  complicated as many new vaccines have been developed .
Some vaccines are  अनुशंसित तभी in निश्चित क्षेत्रों ( देशों , subnational क्षेत्रों , or  at-risk populations ) where a disease is common .
For instance , yellow fever vaccination is on the routine vaccine schedule of French Guiana , is recommended in certain regions of Brazil but  in the संयुक्त राज्य is तभी दिए to travelers heading to देशों साथ a इतिहास  of the disease .
In developing countries ,  टीका सुझाव भी लो into खाता the स्तर  of health care access , the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage .
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the World Health Organization show a developed country using a schedule which extends over the first five years of a child 's life  और उपयोग टीके जिससे लागत over $ 700 सहित प्रशासन लागत जबकि a विकासशील देश उपयोग a अनुसूची providing टीके  in the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25 .
This difference is due to the lower cost of health care , the lower cost of many vaccines  provided to विकासशील राष्ट्र , और कि अधिक महंगी टीके , प्रायः लिये कम आम रोगों  , are not utilized .
in 1900 , the smallpox टीका थी  the only one administered to children .
by the जल्दी 1950s , children routinely प्राप्त चार टीके  , for protection against ( diphtheria , pertussis , tetanus , polio , and smallpox ) , and as many as five shots by two years of age .
Since the  mid-1980s , अनेक टीके have महरूम added  to the schedule .
, the US Centers for Disease  कंट्रोल और रोकथाम ( सीडीसी ) अभी अनुशंसा टीकाकरण विरूद्ध at तनिक चौदह  diseases .
By two years of age , U.S. children receive  as अनेक as 24 टीका injections , और might प्राप्त up to पाँच गोलियाँ दौरान एक विज़िट to the डॉक्टर  .
The use of combination vaccine products means  कि , , the संयुक्त किंगडम 's immunization कार्यक्रम consists of 10 injections by the आयु of दो , बल्कि than 25 if टीकाकरण  for each disease was given as a separate injection .
Two  revellers नृत्य in the  streets .
The form  of नाचना is पुकारा `` wining '' ( घुमावदार  ) pronounced wine-ing
a म्यूज़िक ट्रक entertains the भीड  on the streets .
Trucks are an integral part  of the गली परेड , featuring सजीव प्रदर्शन  or deejays
The  त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो कार्निवल is an सालाना इवेंट आयोजित on the सोमवार और मंगलवार पहले राख बुधवार , और  is well known for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations .
कार्निवल in त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो is the सबसे significant इवेंट on the आइलैंड्स ' सांस्कृतिक और पर्यटन पंचांग , साथ numerous  cultural events running in the lead up to the street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday .
It is said that if the islanders are not  celebrating it , तब वे हैं तैयारी लिये it , जबकि reminiscing परिचय the पास्ट साल  's festival .
The heart of the musical  जश्न रै महरूम कैलिप्सो ; recently सोका रै replaced  calypso as the most celebrated type of music .
Costumes , stickfighting and  limbo प्रतियोगिताओं हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण components of the  festival .
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad and Tobago  is भी मनाये in शहरों विश्वव्यापी  .
These including Toronto 's Caribana ,  मियामी 's मियामी कार्निवल , ह्यूस्टन carifest , लंदन 's नॉटिंग हिल कार्निवल as खूब as नई यॉर्क  City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few .
Carnival was created when West  अफ़्रीकी स्लेव mimicked उनके फ्रेंच स्वामी जो जहाँ ज्ञात लिये उनके lavish  costumes balls .
हराम to partake in ये festivities और confined to उनके quarters , स्लेव  combined elements from their own cultures to their master 's fete .
Hence the creation of characters such as Jab Jab or Jab  molassie ( शैतानों ) , मध्यरात्रि लुटेरों , imps , lagahroo , soucouyant  , La Diablesse and Demons .
With the abolition of slavery in 1838 , freed Africans took their version of Carnival  to the गलियों through अभिव्यक्ति of ड्रम , riddim भाग जैसे tamboo बाँसुरी और as प्रत्येक नई अप्रवासी जनसांख्यिकी डाला  Trinidad , Carnival evolved into what we know today .
the नगर of शिकागो , इलिनोइस आयोजित a nonpartisan mayoral चुनाव  on Tuesday , February 22 , 2011 .
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley , a member  of the लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी जो था महरूम in दफ्तर चूंकि 1989 , किया नहीं तलाश a सातवाँ पद as  mayor .
Candidates needed to collect  12,500 याचिका हस्ताक्षर by नवम्बर 22 , 2010 to qualify लिये a  place on the ballot .
April 5 , 2011 was scheduled to be a  runoff चुनाव तिथि if no प्रत्याशी प्राप्त  an absolute majority .
Rahm  emanuel जीती the रेस लिये महापौर साथ  more than 55 % of the vote .
He  थी उदघाटन on may 16 , 2011  .
``  उत्तेजित up kicks '' is a सोंग by अमरीकी  indie pop band Foster the People .
It was released as the group 's debut single  in सितंबर 2010 , और the following साल थी शामिल on उनके ep फोस्टर the लोगों  and their debut album Torches .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became  the समूह 's भेदन hit और थी एक of the सबसे लोकप्रिय  songs of 2011 .
The song was  लिखा और अंकित by frontman चिह्नित फोस्टर जबकि he थी working  as a commercial jingle writer .
Contrasting with the upbeat  musical संयोजन , the गीत describe the homicidal विचार  of a troubled youth .
The track received considerable attention after it was posted online in 2010  as a फ़्री डाउनलोड , और it helped the समूह गार्नर a multi-album रिकार्ड सौदे साथ कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड imprint startime  International .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' proved to be a  स्लीपर hit ; in 2011 , बाद receiving significant airplay on आधुनिक चट्टान स्टेशन , the सोंग crossed-over onto समकालीन  hit radio stations .
The song spent eight consecutive weeks at number three on the Billboard Hot 100  चार्ट in the संयुक्त राज्य , बनाना it the पहला बिलबोर्ड वैकल्पिक गीतों number-one सिंगल to क्रैक the  U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009 .
The song was widely praised by  आलोचकों , और it रै महरूम licensed लिये उपयोग in a चौड़ी दायरा of लोकप्रिय मीडिया चूंकि  its release .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' received a  ग्रैमी पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन पॉप duo/group प्रदर्शन  .
The State Fair of  वेस्ट वर्जिनिया is an सालाना राज्य मेला  for West Virginia .
It is held annually in  mid-august on the राज्य fairgrounds in fairlea , निकट lewisburg , वेस्ट वर्जिनिया in the  southeastern part of the state .
the राज्य fairgrounds consists of a विशाल खोलें फ़ील्ड लिये carnivals और  exhibitions , a horse track , grandstands , and several exhibition buildings .
फ़्री पार्किंग is provided सटा to the fairgrounds और , जबतक 2006 , फ़्री कैंप थी  also available in a large field with running-water toilets and showers , but no hookups .
Campers are  अभी चार्ज a  small fee .
The White House , the president 's  आधिकारिक निवास और बीच of the प्रशासन
Under the  संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य  is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the  प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य by influence और मान्यता  .
The  अध्यक्ष is भी the commander-in-chief of the  United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly  निर्वाचित to a four-year पद by an चुनावी कॉलेज ( or by the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए  the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
चूंकि the अनुसमर्थन of the twenty-second amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान in 1951 , no व्यक्ति may be निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष अधिक  than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the  मौत , इस्तीफा , or हटाना इससे दफ्तर of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष , the वाइस  President assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35 years of  आयु और a `` प्राकृतिक born '' नागरिक of the संयुक्त  States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president  following the अनुसमर्थन of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , जिससे took प्रभाव on कूच  4 , 1789 .
For American  नेताओ पहले इस अनुसमर्थन , देखिए अध्यक्ष  of the Continental Congress .
The list does not include any  एक्टिंग राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the twenty-fifth amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as  ग्रोवर क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो non-consecutive शर्तें और is गिने क्रमबद्धता as दोनो the 22nd और 24th  president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt )  , चार यहूद assassinated ( अब्राहम lincoln , जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड , विलियम mckinley , और जॉन F. कैनेडी ) और एक resigned (  Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first president , was  उदघाटन in 1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote of the चुनावी  College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32  दिनों in 1841 , और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट खर्च the longest साथ over बारह सालो , लकिन died shortly into  his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the  तभी अध्यक्ष to serve अधिक than दो शर्तें , और a संवैधानिक amendment ,  affecting presidents after Harry Truman , was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew  जैक्सन , the सातवाँ अध्यक्ष , थी the पहला to be निर्वाचित by  men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren  हार्डिंग थी the पहला निर्वाचित बाद महिलाओं gained मतदान  rights in 1920 .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams ,  रदरफोर्ड B. हेज़ , बेंजामिन हैरिसन और जार्ज W. बुश – जो खोया the लोकप्रिय vote  but assumed office .
जॉन F. कैनेडी रै महरूम the तभी अध्यक्ष of रोमन कैथोलिक आस्था , और the  current president , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
`` Lombardi  ट्रॉफी '' redirects यहाँ  .
For the award awarded  annually to the बेहतरीन कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल lineman or linebacker ,  see Lombardi Award .
The Vince Lombardi Trophy is the trophy awarded each year  to the जीतना टोली of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग 's चैंपियनशिप खेल ,  the Super Bowl .
The trophy is named in  सम्मान of legendary एनएफएल कोच विंस लोम्बार्डी  .
This is a  सूची of टेबल of the सत्यापित oldest लोगों in the संसार  in ordinal rank , such as oldest person or oldest man .
In these tables , a  supercentenarian is माना 'verified ' if उसके or उसके अर्जी रै महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह  that specifically deals in longevity research , such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest  unambiguously प्रलेखित इंसान जीवनकाल is कि of jeanne calment  of France ( 1875–1997 ) , who died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She met Vincent van  gogh जब वो थी 12 or 13  .
This led to news  मीडिया ध्यान in 1985 , बाद calment  turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found  दस्तावेज़ीकरण लिये calment 's आयु , परे कोई उचित सवाल , in the रिकॉर्ड of उसके  native city , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's  जीवनकाल रै महरूम उत्पादित than लिये कोई अन्य supercentenarian ; उसके मामला serves as an archetype  in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male  supercentenarians is कि of jiroemon किमुरा , जो फिलहाल जीवनदान in जापानी  and is age as of .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of  the संयुक्त राज्य , on 17 दिसम्बर 2012 , किमुरा , born 19 अप्रैल 1897 , is the oldest जीना व्यक्ति in the संसार जिनकी आयु can be  documented .
He has also  महरूम the oldest जीना man चूंकि the मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर breuning  on 14 April 2011 .
Since the death of 115-year  बूढ़ा koto okubo of जापानी on 12 जनवरी 2013 , the oldest जीना स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa , भी इससे जापानी  , born on 5 March 1898 .
The People 's Court is an American arbitration-based reality court show , currently presided over by  रिटायर्ड फ्लोरिडा राज्य सर्किट अदालत न्यायधीश मर्लिन milian , in जिससे छोटी दावा विवादों हैं संभाला  .
The People  's अदालत is the पहला अदालत दिखाएँ to उपयोग बाइंडिंग मध्यस्थता , introducing the स्वरूप  into the genre in 1981 .
The system has been duplicated  by सबसे of the दिखाएँ 's successors in the न्यायिक विधा  .
Moreover , The People 's Court is  the पहला लोकप्रिय , long-running वास्तविकता in the न्यायिक विधा  .
It was  preceded तभी by a few short-lived हकीकत in the विधा ; ये short-lived पूर्ववर्तियों यहूद तभी loosely सम्बन्धित  to judicial proceedings , except for one : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings .
prior to the लोगों 's अदालत , the विशाल बहुमत  of TV courtroom shows used actors , and recreated or fictional cases ( as did radio before that ) .
Among examples of these  प्रकार of अदालत shows शामिल प्रसिद्ध जूरी ट्रायल और  Your Witness .
The People 's Court  रै था दो चिहृ जीवनदान  .
The show 's first life was  presided over solely by पूर्व लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी श्रेष्ठ अदालत  Judge Joseph Wapner .
His tenure lasted from the show 's debut on  सितंबर 14 , 1981 , जबतक may 21 , 1993 , जब the दिखाएँ थी रद्द due to कम दरजा  .
This left the  दिखाएँ साथ a कुल of 2,484 1⁄2-hour एपीसोड  and 12 seasons .
The show was taped in  लॉस एंजिल्स दौरान इसके पहला  life .
बाद होने रद्द , reruns  aired until September 9 , 1994 .
On September 8 , 1997 , after being out of production for four  सालो , the लोगों 's अदालत थी revived लिये a दूसरी जीवन in first-run अनुप्रयोग as a 60-minute  program .
Former lawyer and Mayor of New York Ed Koch was  चुनी as arbiter , जिससे he कायम लिये 2 सीज़न इससे the 1997–98 ऋतु through the 1998–99 ऋतु ( the उपस्थित जीवन 's  2nd season and overall show 's 14th ) .
By  the 1999–00 ऋतु , husband of जूडिथ sheindlin ( जो presides over न्यायधीश जुडी ) और  former New York State Supreme Court Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch .
Sheindlin lasted one and a half seasons as he was  replaced towards the समाप्त of the 2000–01 ऋतु ( उपस्थित जीवन 's 4th ऋतु और overall दिखाएँ 's  17th ) .
Beginning in spring 2001 , Florida judge Marilyn  milian took over the लोगों 's अदालत और रै presided over the दिखाएँ कभी  since .
Once Milian completes the 2012–13 season ,  वो होगा have परोसा as longest arbiter over the श्रेणी साथ 12 और a हाफ सीज़न  .
As of the  उपस्थित , however , उसके सालो on the कार्यक्रम टाई wapner  at 12 seasons .
In the 2009-10 television season ,  the लोगों 's न्यायालयों 2nd/present जीवन outlasted इसके पहला जब it पहुँचे  13 seasons .
While the show taped in New York City for the first 15 seasons of its  दूसरी जीवन , it अभी टेपों in stamford , कनेक्टिकट as of the 2012-13  season .
On September 3 , 2012 , The  लोगों 's अदालत 's 2nd/present जीवन डाला इसके 16th ऋतु (  28th overall season ) .
With 28 total seasons , The People 's Court ranks as the 2nd  longest-running courtroom कार्यक्रम पीछे the जारी तलाक अदालत at 33 सीज़न ( इससे इसके  3 combined lives ) .
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho : Wo'tééneihí ' ) is  a राज्य in the पश्चिमी संयुक्त राज्य .
It became the  45th राज्य admitted to the संघ on  January 4 , 1896 .
Utah is the 13th-largest , the 34th-most  populous , और the 10th-least-densely आबादी of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य  .
लगभग 80 % of यूटा 's 2,817,222 लोगों सजीव साथ the wasatch सामने , centering on नमक झील नगर , leaving विशाल expanses of the राज्य nearly uninhabited और बनाना the जनसांख्यिकी the छठे सबसे urbanized in the  U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east , Wyoming on the northeast , Idaho on the north , Arizona on the south , and Nevada on the west .
It also  छू a कोने of नई मैक्सिको on  the southeast .
यूटा is the सबसे religiously समरूप  state in the Union .
लगभग 63 % of utahns हैं reported to be सदस्यों of the गिरिजाघर of यीशु मसीह of latter-day संतो or lds ( mormons ) , जिससे  greatly influences Utah culture and daily life .
The world headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of  latter-day संतो ( lds गिरिजाघर ) is स्तिथ in यूटा 's राज्य  capital .
The state is a center  of परिवहन , शिक्षा , सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी और शोध , सरकारी सेवाएं  , mining , and a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau 's population  estimates , यूटा is the पांचवां fastest-growing राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य as of 2012  .
St. George , was the  fastest–growing महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त राज्य  from 2000 to 2005 .
A 2012 Gallup national survey  मिला यूटा overall to be the `` बेहतरीन राज्य to सजीव in '' आधारित on 13 forward-looking माप  including various economic , lifestyle , and health-related outlook metrics .
coldwater is a छोटी कस्बा in  Tate County , Mississippi .
It is in  the मेम्फिस महानगर  Area .
The population  थी 1,674 at the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी  .
the मुश्किल तालु is a पतला आड़ा बोनी थाली of the कपाल , स्तिथ  in the roof of the mouth .
It  spans the मेहराब formed by the  upper teeth .
It is  formed by the palatine प्रक्रम of the maxilla और आड़ा  plate of palatine bone .
It forms a partition  between the nasal passages और the मुँह .
Also on the anterior  portion of the छत of the मुश्किल तालु is the rugae जिससे हैं the irregular ridges in the श्लेष्मक झिल्ली कि सहायता सुकर the  movement of food backwards towards the pharynx .
This partition is  जारी deeper into the मुँह by a मांसल एक्सटेंशन पुकारा the नरम  palate .
Complete set of  scrolls , constituting the संपूर्ण  Tanakh .
The Tanakh ( , or ;  भी tenakh , tenak , tanach ) is a नाम प्रयुक्त in judaism लिये  the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The  tanakh is भी ज्ञात as the masoretic टेक्स्ट or  the Miqra .
the नाम is an एक्रोनिम formed इससे the आरंभिक यहूदी अक्षर of the masoretic टेक्स्ट 's तीन परंपरागत subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '' ,  also known as the Five Books of Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ) ,  अर्थ `` कि जिससे is पढ़ा '' , is an वैकल्पिक यहूदी पद  for the Tanakh .
The books  of the tanakh यहूद relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक परंपरा passed  on by each generation , called the Oral Torah .
Sobriety  नाका in जर्मनी
Driving under the influence ( DUI ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI ) , drunken driving , drunk  ड्राइविंग , पेय ड्राइविंग , ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence , पीने और ड्राइविंग , or impaired ड्राइविंग is the अपराधों of ड्राइविंग  a motor vehicle with blood levels of alcohol in excess of a legal limit ( `` Blood Alcohol Content '' , or `` BAC '' ) .
Similar regulations cover driving or operating certain types  of मशीनरी जबकि प्रभावित by पीने दारू or लेने अन्य दवाएँ , सहित , लकिन नहीं सीमित to नुस्खा  drugs .
इस is a दण्ड ठोकर  in most nations .
Convictions do not  necessarily involve वास्तविक ड्राइविंग of the  vehicle .
In most jurisdictions a  मापन ऐसे as a रक्त दारू सामग्री ( bac ) in excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज स्तर , ऐसे as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the ठोकर , साथ no need  to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol .
In some jurisdictions , there is an  क्रोधित श्रेणी of the ठोकर at a उच्चतर स्तर  e.g . 0.12 % .
In most  देशों , anyone जो is convicted of injuring or हत्या किसी जबकि अंतर्गत the influence of दारू or दवाएँ can be heavily fined , as in फ़्रांस , in  addition to being given a lengthy prison sentence .
Some  कार्य have उनके अपना नियम और bac हद , लिये उदाहरण वाणिज्यिक पायलट , और the संघीय रेलरोड प्रशासन in the  United States has a 0.04 % limit for train crew .
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC  ; लिये उदाहरण , the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै a 0.08 % bac सीमा , जिससे is  lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a commercial driver 's license .
The California  bac सीमा is 0.01 % लिये those younger than 21 सालो of आयु  and those on probation for a previous DUI conviction .
Some large corporations have their own rules ; Union Pacific Railroad has their own  bac सीमा of 0.02 % कि , if violated दौरान a यादृच्छिक परीक्षण or a for-cause परीक्षण — लिये उदाहरण , बाद a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना — can परिणाम in termination of नियुक्ति  with no chance of future re-hire .
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted truth in sentencing  कानून कि enforce सख्त दिशानिर्देश on sentencing , differing इससे पिछला अभ्यास जहाँ थाना  time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued .
कुछ jurisdictions have न्यायिक दिशानिर्देश requiring  a mandatory minimum sentence .
दंड लिये dui आरोप दायरा इससे महंगी शुल्क to forfetiruree of अपना  license plates and in some serious circumstances , your vehicle .
A drunk  ड्राइविंग सिम्युलेटर in montréal ,  Canada
The specific criminal offense may be called , depending on the jurisdiction , driving under the influence [ of alcohol or other drugs ] ( DUI ) , driving under intense  influence ( duii ) , ड्राइविंग जबकि intoxicated ( dwi ) , ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence ( oui ) ऑपरेटिंग जबकि intoxicated ( owi ) , ऑपरेटिंग a मोटर गाडी जबकि intoxicated ( omvi ) , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the संयुक्त influence of दारू and/or अन्य दवाएँ , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence प्रति se or नशे in चार्ज  [ of a vehicle ] .
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling , boating , piloting  वायुयान , उपयोग of motile फार्म उपकरण ऐसे as tractors और combines , सवारी  horses or driving a horse-drawn vehicle , or bicycling , possibly with different BAC level than driving .
In some jurisdictions there are separate charges depending on the vehicle used , such as  bwi ( bicycling जबकि intoxicated ) , जिससे may carry a हल्का वाक्य  .
In the United States , local law enforcement agencies made 1,467,300 arrests nationwide for  ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence of दारू in 1996 , compared to 1.9 लाख ऐसे रखवाले दौरान the शिखर साल  in 1983 .
In 1997 an  अनुमानित 513,200 dwi अपराधियों यहूद in थाना or कारावास  , down from 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in 1986 .
Officers  इससे us कस्टम और किनारा सुरक्षा बोर्डिंग  a ship
Law enforcement in the United States is one of three major  components of the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली of the संयुक्त राज्य , साथ साथ न्यायालयों  and corrections .
हालांकि वहीँ exists an अंतर्निहित interrelatedness between the अलग समूह कि मेक up the दण्ड इंसाफ प्रणाली  based on their crime deterrence purpose , each component operates independently from one another .
However , the judiciary is vested with the power to  मेक विधिक determinations regarding the conduct of the अन्य दो  components .
Apart from maintaining order and  सेवा कृत्यों , the purpose of policing is the छानबीन of suspected दण्ड कार्यकलाप और the referral of the परिणाम of investigations  and of suspected criminals to the courts .
Law enforcement , to varying  डिग्री at अलग स्तर of सरकारी और in अलग एजेंसियों , is भी commonly चार्ज साथ the जिम्मेदारियों of deterring  criminal activity and of preventing the successful commission of crimes in progress ; the service and enforcement of warrants , writs and other orders of the courts .
Law enforcement  एजेंसियों हैं भी शामिल in providing पहला जवाब to emergencies और अन्य खतरे to पब्लिक सुरक्षा ; the सुरक्षा of निश्चित पब्लिक सुविधाएं और अवसंरचना ; the  maintenance of public order ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ) .
Elmer  figueroa arce ( born जून 28 , 1968 ) , बेहतरीन ज्ञात अंतर्गत the स्टेज  name Chayanne , is a Puerto Rican Latin pop singer and actor .
As a solo artist ,  chayanne रै released 21 सोलो एल्बम और बेची over 15 लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी  .
`` World War  हल्क '' is a कॉमिक किताब क्रॉसओवर कथानक कि भागा through a स्वः titled सीमित श्रेणी और  various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007 , featuring the Hulk .
The series consists of five main issues titled World War Hulk , with Greg Pak as  लेखक और जॉन romita , jr. as penciller , और तीन अन्य सीमित श्रेणी : संसार युद्ध हल्क : सामने लकीर , संसार  War Hulk : Gamma Corps , and World War Hulk : X-Men .
It also ran through several  अन्य आश्चर्य कॉमिक्स श्रेणी  .
The plot is the culmination of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into space by  the illuminati और a जीवन मॉडल decoy of उपनाम फ़्यूरी , the हल्क 's subsequent निर्वासन देखी in ग्रह हल्क और उसके निकट वापसी to धरती  to seek revenge on the Illuminati .
marion मिशेल मॉरिसन ( born marion रॉबर्ट मॉरिसन ; may 26 , 1907 – जून 11 , 1979 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम जॉन वेन , थी  an American film actor , director and producer .
An Academy  पुरस्कार -winner , वेन थी among the शीर्ष बक्सा दफ्तर draws लिये तीन दशकों , और  was named the all-time top money-making star .
An enduring  अमरीकी प्रतीक , he epitomized खुरदरा मर्दानगी और is प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके demeanor , सहित  his distinctive calm voice , walk , and height .
Wayne was born in Winterset , Iowa but  उसके परिवार relocated to the वृहद लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल जब  he was four years old .
He found work at local film studios when he lost his football  स्कॉलरशिप to यूएससी as a परिणाम of a bodysurfing दुर्घटना  .
Initially  working लिये the फॉक्स फिल्मी निगम , he ज़्यादातर appeared in  small bit parts .
His first leading role came in the  वाइडस्क्रीन एपिक the बिग ट्रेल ( 1930 ) , जिससे led to अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ in numerous  films throughout the 1930s , many of them in the western genre .
His career rose to  further हाइट्स in 1939 , साथ जॉन घाट 's stagecoach बनाना उसे  an instant superstar .
Wayne would  go on to स्टार in 142 तस्वीरें , primarily typecast  in Western films .
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ) , which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen O'Hara ; The  searchers ( 1956 ) , in जिससे he plays a सिविल युद्ध दिग्गज जो seeks आउट उसके abducted भांजी ; रिओ ब्रावो ( 1959 ) , playing a शेरिफ साथ डीन मार्टिन ; सच्चा grit ( 1969 ) , playing a humorous u.s . मार्शल जो सेट आउट to avenge a man 's मौत in the भूमिका कि जीती  Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ) , his final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer .
Wayne moved to Orange  काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the 1960s , और थी a prominent रिपब्लिकन in हॉलीवुड  , supporting anti-communist positions .
He  died of पेट कर्कट  in 1979 .
In June  1999 , the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान नामित वेन  13th among the Greatest Male Screen Legends of All Time .
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 January  1642 ) , थी an इतालवी physicist , गणितज्ञ , astronomer , और  philosopher who played a major role in the Scientific Revolution .
His  उपलब्धियाँ शामिल सुधार to the दूरदर्शी और consequent खगोलीय observations  and support for Copernicanism .
Galileo has been called the `` father of modern observational astronomy `` , the  `` पिता of आधुनिक भौतिकी `` , the `` पिता of विज्ञान '' , और `` the पिता of आधुनिक  Science '' .
His  योगदान to observational खगोलशास्त्र शामिल the telescopic पुष्टि of the phases of शुक्र , the डिस्कवरी of the चार largest satellites of बृहस्पति ( नामित the galilean moons in उसके इज्ज़त ) , और the अवलोकन  and analysis of sunspots .
गैलीलियो भी worked in लागू विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी , inventing  an improved military compass and other instruments .
Galileo 's championing  of heliocentrism थी विवादास्पद भीतर उसके आजीवन , जब सबसे subscribed to either geocentrism  or the Tychonic system .
He met with opposition from  खगोलशास्त्रियों , जो doubted heliocentrism due to the अनुपस्थिति of an observed तारकीय लंबन  .
The matter was investigated by the  रोमन inquisition in 1615 , और वे concluded कि it could be समर्थित as तभी a सम्भावना , नहीं  an established fact .
Galileo later defended his views in Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems , which appeared to  आक्रमण पोप शहरी viii और यूँ alienated उसे और the jesuits , जो था दोनो समर्थित गैलीलियो  up until this point .
He was tried by the Inquisition , found `` vehemently suspect of heresy ''  , मजबूर to recant , और खर्च the बाकी of उसके जीवन अंतर्गत हाउस गिरफ़्तार  .
It was while Galileo  थी अंतर्गत हाउस गिरफ़्तार कि he लिखा एक of उसके finest works , दो नई sciences , in जिससे he summarised the कार्य he था किया कुछ चालीस सालो पहले , on the दो sciences  now called kinematics and strength of materials .
55 ''  lg oled tv showcased  at CES 2012
प्रोटोटाइप oled lighting  panel developed by Lumiotec
Demonstration of a  लचीली oled यंत्र
An  oled ( सशुल्क light-emitting डायोड ) is a light-emitting डायोड ( led ) in जिससे the emissive electroluminescent  layer is a film of organic compound which emits light in response to an electric current .
This layer of organic  सेमीकंडक्टर is situated between दो electrodes  .
Generally , at  तनिक एक of ये electrodes is पारदर्शी  .
OLEDs are used to create digital displays in devices such as television  screens , कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर , पोर्टेबल प्रणालियों ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन , हैंडहेल्ड खेल consoles और  PDAs .
A major area of research is the development  of श्वेत oled डिवाइस लिये उपयोग in solid-state lighting अनुप्रयोग  .
वहीँ हैं दो प्रमुख परिवारों of oleds : those आधारित on  small molecules and those employing polymers .
Adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a  light-emitting electrochemical कोशिका or लैक , जिससे रै a थोड़ा अलग  mode of operation .
OLED displays can use  either passive-matrix ( pmoled ) or active-matrix संबोधित  schemes .
Active-matrix  oleds ( amoled ) आवश्यकता a thin-film ट्रांजिस्टर backplane to स्विच प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत पिक्सेल on or  off , but allow for higher resolution and larger display sizes .
An OLED display  works बगैर a backlight  .
Thus , it can display deep black levels  और can be thinner और हल्का than a द्रव क्रिस्टल प्रदर्शक ( एलसीडी  ) .
In low ambient light conditions such as a dark  रूम an oled स्क्रीन can achieve a उच्चतर कंट्रास्ट अनुपात than an एलसीडी , whether the एलसीडी उपयोग ठंडा कैथोड fluorescent दीये  or LED backlight .
A carton and a glass of  eggnog इससे मॉन्ट्रियल , कनाडा , प्रर्दशित इसके फ्रेंच मुखाग्र ( अंग्रेज़ी रिवर्स ) और the फ्रेंच पद लेत de poule ( वस्तुतः  , `` hen 's milk '' )
Eggnog , or egg nog , is a sweetened dairy  -आधारd पेय traditionally बना साथ मिल्क and/or मलाई , शुगर , और whipped अंडे ( जिससे देता it a frothy  texture ) .
Brandy , rum ,  व्हिस्की , bourbon , वोदका , or a संयोजन of liquors  are often added .
the समाप्त सेवारत is प्रायः garnished साथ a sprinkling  of ground cinnamon or nutmeg .
it थी भी ज्ञात as the  egg milk punch .
Eggnog is a popular drink throughout  the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा , और is प्रायः संबद्ध साथ  Christmas .
Eggnog may be added as a  flavoring to खाना or पेय ऐसे as कॉफी  and tea .
Eggnog as a custard can also be  प्रयुक्त as an बर्फ मलाई आधार  .
A pasty (  , ) , ( sometimes ज्ञात in ब्रिटेन as a cornish pasty , और in the संयुक्त राज्य as a pastie or अंग्रेजों pasty ) is a baked पेस्ट्री , a  traditional variety of which is particularly associated with Cornwall , the westernmost county in England .
It is made by placing uncooked filling  typically of मांस और सब्जियां , बगैर मांस in शाकाहारी संस्करण , on a चपटा पेस्ट्री वृत्त और  folding it to wrap the filling , crimping the edge to form a seal .
After baking , the result  is a उठाया semicircular comestible  .
The traditional Cornish pasty , which has Protected Geographical Indication ( PGI ) status in Europe , is filled with  बीफ , sliced or diced आलू , swede ( भी ज्ञात as a पीला शलजम or rutabaga – referred to in कॉर्नवॉल as शलजम ) और प्याज , seasoned साथ नमक  and pepper , and is baked .
Today ,  the pasty is the खाना सबसे संबद्ध साथ कॉर्नवॉल , it is regarded as the नेशनल डिश , और it खाते  for 6 % of the Cornish food economy .
Pasties with many  अलग fillings हैं बना ; कुछ दुकानें specialise in selling सब sorts of  pasties .
The origins  of the pasty हैं unclear , हालांकि वहीँ हैं अनेक सन्दर्भ to उन्हें  throughout historical documents and fiction .
The pasty is now  लोकप्रिय world-wide due to the स्प्रेड of cornish खनिक , और विसंगतियाँ can be मिला in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ,  the United States , Mexico and elsewhere .
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) is  एक of तीन प्रमुख भाग of the autonomic बेचैन प्रणाली : the अन्य होने the enteric और parasympathetic  systems .
Its general action  is to mobilize the देह 's बेचैन प्रणाली fight-or-flight जवाब  .
It is ,  however , constantly क्रियाशील at a मौलिक स्तर to maintain  homeostasis .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a  non-volatile मेमोरी कार्ड स्वरूप लिये उपयोग in पोर्टेबल डिवाइस , ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन , डिजिटल  cameras , GPS navigation devices , and tablet computers .
The  सुरक्षित डिजिटल मानक is कायम by the  SD Card Association ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have been implemented in  अधिक than 400 ब्रांड्स आरपार दर्जनों of उत्पाद श्रेणी और अधिक  than 8,000 models .
The Secure Digital format includes four  कार्ड परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ in तीन अलग रूप कारकों  .
The four  परिवारों हैं the असली standard-capacity ( sdsc ) , the high-capacity ( sdhc ) , the  eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ) , and the SDIO , which combines input/output functions with data storage .
The  तीन रूप कारकों हैं the असली आकार , the `` मिनी '' आकार , और the `` सूक्ष्म  '' size ( see illustration ) .
There are many combinations  of रूप कारकों और यंत्र परिवारों  .
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a  छोटी कार्ड in a मेजबान यंत्र निर्मित to थाम a larger  card .
Host devices that comply with newer  संस्करण of the specification provide पिछड़ा संगतता और accept पुरानी sd ताश , लकिन इस आलेख explains अनेक  factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may  प्रस्ताव वृहद क्षमता than the मेजबान यंत्र can  handle .
A newer  कार्ड may उपयोग a संचिका प्रणाली the मेजबान यंत्र can  not navigate .
Use of  an sdio कार्ड requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed  for the input/output functions the card provides .
The organization of  the कार्ड थी बदला starting साथ the  SDHC family .
Some  विक्रेता उत्पादित sdsc ताश ऊपर 1 gb पहले the sda था  standardized a method of doing so .
The SDA uses several trademarked logos  to enforce अनुपालन साथ इसके विशेषताएँ और assure उपयोक्ता of संगतता  .
The  following is a सूची of आलोचकों  of the New Deal .
Daniel Lawrence Whitney ( born February 17 , 1963 )  बेहतरीन ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम और अक्षर लैरी the केबल guy , is an अमरीकी stand-up हास्य , कर्ता , देश  music artist , voice actor , and former radio personality .
he थी एक of the सदस्यों of the ब्लू कॉलर कॉमेडी दौरे , a कॉमेडी troupe जिससे शामिल विधेयक engvall  , Ron White , and Jeff Foxworthy ( with whom he has starred on Blue Collar TV ) .
Whitney has released seven comedy albums , of  जिससे तीन have महरूम certified सुनहरा by the riaa लिये शिपमेंट  of 500,000 copies .
In addition , he has starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related movies , as  खूब as in the films लैरी the केबल guy : स्वास्थ्य इंस्पेक्टर , डेल्टा तमाशा , और witless सुरक्षा , as खूब as voicing  Mater in the Cars franchise .
Whitney 's catchphrase : ``  git-r-done ! '' is भी the शीर्षक of उसके किताब .
On January 26 , 2010 , the TV channel History announced that it was ordering a  श्रेणी अभिनीत व्हिटनी पुकारा तभी in अमेरिका साथ लैरी the केबल guy , in जिससे he होता explore the देश और immerse  himself in different lifestyles , jobs , and hobbies .
The first episode of  the श्रेणी aired on फ़रवरी 8 , 2011  .
Vitamin D is a  समूह of fat-soluble secosteroids जिम्मेदार लिये intestinal अवशोषण  of calcium and phosphate .
In  इंसानो , the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन  D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 )  हैं अद्वितीय as वे constitute कया we जान as विटामिन d और can be ingested इससे the आहार and/or  supplements .
The body can also  synthesize विटामिन d ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब सूर्य एक्सपोज़र is पर्याप्त ( hence  its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin , it is not  दरअसल an अनिवार्य dietary विटामिन in the सख्त भाव , as it can be synthesized in पर्याप्त amounts by सबसे स्तनधारियों उजागर  to sunlight .
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize  विटामिन d efficiently और जरूर प्राप्त it in  their diet . )
An  सशुल्क रासायनिक यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is तभी  scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with other compounds  commonly पुकारा विटामिन , विटामिन d थी खोजा in an प्रयत्न to ढूँढें the dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी , namely , rickets , the बाल्यकाल रूप of osteomalacia  .
Additionally , like  अन्य यौगिकों पुकारा विटामिन , in the विकसित संसार विटामिन  D is added to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid disease due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight  as खूब as सेवन इससे the आहार , और it is believed कि संश्लेषण may योगदान generally to the मेंटेनेंस of पर्याप्त सीरम एकाग्रता  .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun  एक्सपोज़र works in a प्रतिक्रिया लूप कि रोकता toxicity लकिन , क्युकी of अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट रिस्क इससे धूप , no सुझाव हैं जारी by the  Institute of Medicine , USA , for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and that all  of a व्यक्ति 's विटामिन d is इससे उनके आहार , हालांकि कि होगा rarely occur in अभ्यास  .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) ,  25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin d—abbreviated 25 ( oh ) d ; और जिससे is the विशिष्ट विटामिन d metabolite कि  is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the  calcidiol is परिवर्तित by the गुर्दे to calcitriol , the biologically क्रियाशील रूप of विटामिन D. calcitriol circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त , regulating the विशेषज्ञता  of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to  calcitriol बाहर of the गुर्दे लिये अन्य उद्देश्य , ऐसे as the  proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to prevent  osteomalacia or rickets , the प्रमाण लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव of विटामिन d supplementation  in the general population is inconsistent .
The best evidence of  लाभ is लिये अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी  in mortality in elderly women .
मानक रूप of the आवधिक  table .
The colors  represent अलग श्रेणी of तत्व समझाया  below .
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements , organized on the basis of  उनके परमाणु संख्याएँ , इलेक्ट्रॉन configurations , और पुनरावर्ती रासायनिक गुण  .
तत्व हैं प्रस्तुत in अनुक्रम of increasing परमाणु  number ( number of protons ) .
The standard form of  तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of तत्व , positioned ऊपर  a smaller double row of elements .
The  तालिका can भी be deconstructed into चार आयताकार ब्लॉक : the s-block to the बाएँ , the p-block  to the right , the d-block in the middle , and the f-block below that .
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s- , d-  , और p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह , साथ कुछ of ये having names ऐसे as the हैलोजन्स or the प्रतिष्ठित गैसों  .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates  पुनरावर्ती रुझान , कोई ऐसे तालिका can be प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध between  the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new , yet to be discovered or synthesized , elements .
As a result , a periodic  table—whether in the मानक रूप or कुछ अन्य variant—provides a उपयोगी फ्रेमवर्क लिये analyzing रासायनिक  behavior , and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
Although precursors exist , Dmitri  mendeleev is generally credited साथ the प्रकाशन , in 1869 , of the पहला widely पहचाना  periodic table .
He developed his  तालिका to illustrate आवधिक रुझान in the गुण of the  then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown  तत्व कि होता be अपेक्षित to भरण गैप in इस तालिका  .
Most of his  पूर्वानुमान यहूद proved सही जब  the elements in question were subsequently discovered .
Mendeleev 's  आवधिक तालिका रै चूंकि महरूम विस्तारित और परिष्कृत साथ the डिस्कवरी or संश्लेषण of further नई तत्व और the विकास  of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior .
All elements from atomic  संख्याएँ 1 ( हाइड्रोजन ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have महरूम खोजा or  synthesized .
The elements from 1  to 98 ( californium ) have महरूम मिला to मौजूद naturally , हालांकि कुछ हैं मिला तभी in ट्रेस amounts और यहूद initially  discovered by synthesis in laboratories .
The elements after 98  have तभी महरूम synthesized in laboratories  .
Production  of तत्व परे ununoctium is होने धड़ा , साथ the सवाल of कैसा the आवधिक तालिका may  need to be modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic  radionuclides of naturally occurring तत्व have भी महरूम उत्पादित in laboratories  .
Minimum wage by U.S. state and U.S. territory ( American  समोआ , गुआम , प्यूर्टो रीको , वर्जिन आइलैंड्स ) , as of  Jan. 1 , 2013 .
in the संयुक्त राज्य , मजदूर हैं generally हकदार to be सशुल्क no  less than the statutory minimum wage .
The federal government mandates a  देशभर न्यूनतम मजदूरी स्तर of $ 7.25 प्रति घंटा , जबकि कुछ राज्य और municipalities have नियत न्यूनतम मजदूरी स्तर उच्चतर than the संघीय स्तर , साथ the उच्चतम राज्य न्यूनतम मजदूरी होने $  9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013 .
Among those paid by the hour  in 2012 , 1.6 लाख यहूद reported as कमाई exactly the प्रचलित संघीय  minimum wage .
परिचय 2.0 लाख यहूद reported  as earning wages below the minimum .
Together ,  ये 3.6 लाख मजदूर साथ मजदूरी at or नीचे the न्यूनतम  made up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers .
A selection of  bourbons और टेनेसी whiskeys offered at a liquor स्टोर in  Decatur , Georgia
Evan Williams  bourbon whiskey
Bourbon  whiskey is a प्रकार of अमरीकी whiskey – a barrel-aged आसुत  spirit made primarily from corn .
The name of the spirit derives from its historical association with an area known as Old Bourbon ,  around कया is अभी bourbon काउंटी , केंटकी ( जिससे , in फेरे , थी नामित बाद the फ्रेंच हाउस of  Bourbon royal family ) .
It has been  उत्पादित चूंकि the 18th सदी  .
While it may be made anywhere in the  संयुक्त राज्य , it is strongly संबद्ध साथ the अमरीकी दक्षिण in सामान्य  , and Kentucky in particular .
The Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the  इतालवी कलाकार लियोनार्डो da विंची , जिससे रै महरूम acclaimed as `` the बेहतरीन ज्ञात , the सबसे visited , the सबसे लिखा  about , the most sung about , the most parodied work of art in the world . ''
The painting , thought to be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini , the  बीवी of francesco डेल giocondo , is in आयल on a poplar फलक , और is believed to have महरूम चित्रित between 1503 और  1506 .
It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the property of the French Republic ,  on स्थाई प्रदर्शक at the musée du louvre in पेरिस चूंकि 1797  .
The ambiguity of the subject 's expression , which is frequently described as enigmatic ,  the monumentality of the संयोजन , the हल्का मॉडलिंग of फ़ॉर्म और the वायुमंडलीय illusionism यहूद अनोखा  qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work .
Robert Allen Palmer ( 19 January  1949 – 26 सितंबर 2003 ) , थी an अंग्रेज़ी singer-songwriter और  musician .
He was known  लिये उसके distinctive आवाज़ और the eclectic मिक्सर of musical शैलियाँ on उसके एल्बम , combining आत्मा , जैज़ ,  rock , pop , reggae and blues .
He found success  दोनो in उसके सोलो करियर और in the musical अधिनियम the शक्ति स्टेशन , और  had Top 10 songs in both the UK and the US .
His iconic music videos by Terence Donovan for the hits ``  आदी to प्रेम `` और `` बस irresistible `` प्रदर्शित identically वेश नाचना महिलाओं साथ पाले चेहरों , अंधेरा नजर मेकअप और उज्जवल रेड लिपस्टिक , जिससे resembled  the women in the art of Patrick Nagel , an artist popular in the 1980s .
sharp-suited , उसके भागीदारी in the म्यूज़िक उद्योग commenced in the 1960s , covered पाँच  decades and included a spell with Vinegar Joe .
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his  करियर , सहित दो ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन पुरूष चट्टान गायन प्रदर्शन , an एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , और थी twice मनोनीत लिये the ब्रिट पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों  Male .
Computed tomography  एंजियोग्राफी ( cta ) is a computed टोमोग्राफी तकनीक प्रयुक्त to visualize arterial और venous  vessels throughout the body .
This ranges from arteries  सेवारत the दिमाग to those bringing रक्त to the फेफड़े ,  kidneys , arms and legs .
The Champs-Élysées  सजा साथ ध्वज लिये bastille  Day
Horseman of  the फ्रेंच रिपब्लिकन गार्ड दौरान the 2007 सैन्य परेड  on the Champs-Élysées .
Prise de la Bastille  by jean-pierre-louis-laurent  Houel
Bastille Day is the name given in English-speaking  देशों to the फ्रेंच नेशनल दिन , जिससे is मनाये on the 14th of जुलाई प्रत्येक  year .
In France  , it is formally पुकारा la fête nationale ( ; the नेशनल जश्न ) और commonly le  quatorze juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ) .
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération , held on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ; the anniversary of the storming of the Bastille fortress-prison was seen as  a प्रतीक of the uprising of the आधुनिक स्वदेश , और of the reconciliation of सब the फ्रेंच अंदर the संवैधानिक साम्राज्य जिससे preceded the पहला गणतंत्र  , during the French Revolution .
festivities और आधिकारिक ceremonies हैं आयोजित  all over France .
The  oldest और largest नियमित सैन्य परेड in यूरोपीय is आयोजित on the morning of 14 जुलाई , on the  Champs-Élysées avenue in Paris in front of the President of the Republic , French officials and foreign guests .
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ) , commonly called  the संयुक्त राज्य ( us or u.S. ) or अमेरिका , is a संघीय गणतंत्र consisting  of fifty states and a federal district .
The lower forty-eight  संलग्न राज्य और the संघीय ज़िला of वॉशिंगटन , d.C. हैं in सेंट्रल उत्तर  America between Canada and Mexico .
The state of Alaska is west  of कनाडा और ईस्ट of रूस आरपार the बेरिंग जलसन्धि , और the  state of Hawaii is in the mid-North Pacific .
The country also has five populated  और नौ unpopulated territories in the प्रशांत और  the Caribbean .
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 million km2 ) and with around 315  लाख लोगों , the संयुक्त राज्य is the third- or fourth-largest देश by कुल क्षेत्रफल और the third-largest by दोनो जमीन क्षेत्रफल और जनसांख्यिकी  .
It is one of the world 's most ethnically diverse and  multicultural राष्ट्र , the उत्पाद of large-scale आव्रजन इससे अनेक देशों  .
The geography and climate of the U.S. is also extremely  विविध , साथ रेगिस्तान , मैदान , वनों , और kyu कि हैं घर  to a wide variety of species .
Paleoindians migrated from Asia  to कया is अभी the संयुक्त राज्य मेनलैंड around 15,000 सालो  ago .
बाद 1500 , बूढ़ा संसार रोगों introduced by  Europeans greatly reduced their populations .
European  colonization began around 1600 और  came mostly from England .
the संयुक्त राज्य उभरा इससे तेरह अंग्रेजों  colonies located along the Atlantic seaboard .
Disputes  between ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और the अमरीकी colonies  led to the American Revolution .
On July 4 , 1776 , delegates from the 13  colonies unanimously जारी the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता , जिससे स्थापित  the United States of America .
The American Revolutionary War , which ended with the recognition of independence of the United States  इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , थी the पहला कामयाब युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता विरूद्ध a यूरोपीय  colonial empire .
The current Constitution was adopted  on सितंबर 17 , 1787 ; twenty-seven amendments have चूंकि महरूम added to the  Constitution .
The  पहला टेन amendments , collectively नामित the विधेयक of अधिकारों , यहूद  ratified in 1791 and guarantee many fundamental civil rights and freedoms .
चलित by the doctrine of manifest नियति , the संयुक्त राज्य embarked on a vigorous विस्तार  across North America throughout the 19th century .
This involved displacing  देशी जनजातियों , acquiring नई territories , और धीरे admitting  new states .
The American  सिविल युद्ध ended legalized गुलामी in the संयुक्त  States .
By the  समाप्त of the उन्नीसवीं सदी , the संयुक्त राज्य विस्तारित into the प्रशांत समंदर , और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था  was the world 's largest .
The  spanish–american युद्ध और पुष्टि the  country 's status as a global military power .
The United States emerged from as a  वैश्विक महाशक्ति , the पहला देश साथ नाभिकीय हथियार , और a स्थाई सदस्य of the संयुक्त  Nations Security Council .
The end of the Cold War and the  विच्छेद of the सोवियत संघ बाएँ the संयुक्त राज्य as the एकमात्र  superpower .
The United States is a developed country and has the world 's largest  नेशनल अर्थव्यवस्था , साथ an अनुमानित 2012 जीडीपी of $ 15.6 खरब 19 % of वैश्विक जीडीपी at purchasing-power  parity , as of 2011 .
The per capita GDP of the U.S.  थी the संसार 's sixth-highest as of 2010 , हालांकि अमेरिका 's माल असमानता थी  also ranked highest among OECD countries by the World Bank .
The economy is fueled by an  प्रचुरता of प्राकृतिक संसाधन , a well-developed अवसंरचना , और ऊँची उत्पादकता ; और  while its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers .
The country accounts for 39 % of global  सैन्य बिता , और is a अग्रणी आर्थिक , राजनैतिक , और सांस्कृतिक फ़ोर्स in the संसार , as खूब  as a leader in scientific research and technological innovation .
The NCAA Men 's  प्रभाग i बास्केट चैंपियनशिप is a single-elimination टूर्नामेंट निभाई प्रत्येक वसन्त in the संयुक्त राज्य , फिलहाल featuring 68 कॉलेज  basketball teams , to determine the national championship of the major college basketball teams .
The tournament , organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) ,  थी निर्मित दौरान 1939 by the नेशनल संघ of बास्केट कोच , और थी the  idea of Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen .
Played mostly during  कूच , it is ज्ञात informally as कूच दीवानगी or the बिग नृत्य , और रै  become one of the most famous annual sporting events in the United States .
The NCAA has credited Bob Walsh of the Seattle Organizing  कमेटी लिये starting the कूच दीवानगी जश्न  during 1984 .
The tournament teams include champions  इससे 31 प्रभाग i सम्मेलनों ( जिससे प्राप्त स्वचालित  bids ) , and 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths .
These `` at-large '' teams are chosen  by an ncaa चयन कमेटी , as विस्तृत  below .
The 64 teams are divided into four  regions और व्यवस्थित into a सिंगल विलोपन `` कोष्ठक '' , जिससे predetermines  , when a team wins a game , which team it will face next .
Each team is `` seeded '' ,  or क्रमित , भीतर इसके प्रदेश  .
After an initial four games between eight lower-ranked  टीमों , the टूर्नामेंट occurs दौरान the कोर्स of तीन सप्ताहांत , at  pre-selected neutral sites around the United States .
Lower-ranked teams are  लगाई in the कोष्ठक विरूद्ध उच्चतर क्रमित  teams .
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams , from a round of 64 , to  a `` मीठी सोलह '' , और लिये the पिछला वीकेंड of the टूर्नामेंट a फाइनल  Four ; the Final Four is usually played during the first weekend of April .
These four teams , one from each region , then  compete in एक स्थान लिये the नेशनल चैंपियनशिप  .
The  टूर्नामेंट रै महरूम at तनिक partially  televised since 1969 .
Presently , the games are  reported by सीबीएस , tbs , टीएनटी , और trutv by the trade-name ncaa  March Madness .
Since 2011  , सब खेल हैं उपलब्धियाँ लिये देखने  nationwide .
As television coverage has  grown , so too रै the टूर्नामेंट  's popularity .
Presently , millions of Americans ``  भरण आउट a कोष्ठक '' , predicting विजेता of सब 67 खेल  .
With 11 national titles , UCLA has the record for the most NCAA Men 's Division I  बास्केट championships ; जॉन लकड़ी coached ucla to  10 of its 11 titles .
The University of Kentucky is second ,  साथ 8 नेशनल शीर्षक , जबकि इंडियाना विश्वविद्यालयों और the विश्वविद्यालयों of उत्तर कैरोलिना  are tied for third with 5 national titles .
ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों बाँधने पांचवां  with 4 national titles .
A sample  of सिंथेटिक मोटर  oil
सिंथेटिक आयल is a स्नेहक consisting of रासायनिक यौगिकों  that are artificially made ( synthesized ) .
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using  chemically परिवर्धित पेट्रोलियम components बल्कि than पूरे crude आयल , लकिन can भी be synthesized इससे अन्य  raw materials .
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum when operating in extremes of temperature ,  क्युकी , in सामान्य , it provides श्रेष्ठ mechanical और रासायनिक गुण than those मिला in परंपरागत  mineral oils .
वायुयान जेट इंजन , लिये उदाहरण , आवश्यकता the उपयोग of सिंथेटिक oils , whereas  aircraft piston engines do not .
Jackass is an American reality series , originally shown on MTV from  2000 to 2002 , featuring लोगों performing विभिन्न खतरनाक , crude self-injuring स्टंट  and pranks .
The show served as a launchpad for the television and acting careers of Bam  margera , steve-o , और भी जॉनी knoxville , जो previously था तभी a few नाबालिग एक्टिंग भूमिकाएँ  .
Since 2002 , three Jackass films have been produced and released by MTV  कॉरपोरेट सहोदर सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें , continuing the मताधिकार बाद इसके चलाएं on  television .
The  दिखाएँ sparked अनेक spin-offs सहित चिरायु la bam , wildboyz  , Homewrecker , Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid .
the दिखाएँ लगाई # 68 on entertainment साप्ताहिक  `` New TV Classics '' list .
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born  नवम्बर 3 , 1952 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , comedienne , लेखक , टेलीविज़न निर्माता , निदेशक , और 2012 अध्यक्षीय  nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party .
Barr began her  करियर in stand-up कॉमेडी at क्लब पहले gaining कीर्ति लिये उसके भूमिका in the  sitcom Roseanne .
The show was a hit and lasted  नौ सीज़न , इससे 1988 to 1997  .
She won both an Emmy and a Golden  ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके कार्य on the दिखाएँ  .
Barr had  crafted a `` fierce working-class घरेलू देवी '' persona in the आठ सालो preceding उसके sitcom और चाही  to do a realistic show about a strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism .
The granddaughter of immigrants from  यूरोपीय और रूस , barr थी the oldest of चार children in a working-class यहूदी नमक  Lake City family ; she was also active in the LDS Church .
In 1974 , she  शादीशुदा विधेयक pentland , साथ जिसको वो था तीन children , पहले divorcing in 1990 और  marrying comedian Tom Arnold for four years .
विवाद arose जब वो संग `` the star-spangled ध्वज `` off-key at a 1990 nationally aired बेसबॉल  game , followed by grabbing her crotch and spitting .
After her sitcom ended , she  शुभारम्भ उसके अपना बात दिखाएँ , the roseanne दिखाएँ  , which aired from 1998 to 2000 .
In 2005 , she  लौटे to stand-up कॉमेडी साथ a संसार  tour .
In 2011 , she  स्ट्रक्चर in an unscripted tv दिखाएँ , roseanne 's nuts , कि lasted इससे जुलाई to सितंबर  of that year , about her life on a Hawaiian farm .
In early 2012 , Barr announced  उसके उम्मीदवारी लिये the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन of  the Green Party .
Barr lost  the नामांकन to jill स्टीन  .
She then  sought the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन of the सलाम और स्वतंत्रता  Party , which she won on August 4 , 2012 .
Barr  प्राप्त 61,971 मत in the सामान्य चुनाव ,  placing sixth overall .
Francesco Albani 's 17th century  बपतिस्मा of मसीह is a ठेठ चित्रण साथ the आसमान खोलने और the पावन स्पिरिट descending  as a dove .
The  बपतिस्मा of यीशु marks the शुरूआत of उसके  public ministry .
This event is recorded in  the canonical gospels of मैथ्यू , चिह्नित और ल्यूक  .
John 's  इन्जील करता नहीं describe यीशु ' बपतिस्मा , लकिन जॉन the  Baptist does testify of the other things in .
In the New  वसीयत , जॉन the बैपटिस्ट preached the बपतिस्मा of तौबा लिये the remission of पापों  ( ) , and declared himself a forerunner of he that would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost and with fire '' ( ) .
In so  doing he थी तैयारी the  way for Jesus .
Jesus came to the Jordan  नदी जहाँ he थी baptized by  John .
The baptismal scene includes the  आकाश खोलने , a dove-like descent of the पावन स्पिरिट , और a आवाज़ इससे स्वर्ग saying , `` इस  is my beloved Son , in whom I am well pleased . ''
Most modern scholars  दृश्य the फैक्ट कि यीशु थी baptized by जॉन as an ऐतिहासिक इवेंट to जिससे a ऊँची उपाधि of certainty  can be assigned .
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as  एक of the दो historically निश्चित तथ्य परिचय उसे , और प्रायः उपयोग it as the  starting points for the study of the historical Jesus .
The  बपतिस्मा is एक of the पाँच प्रमुख माइलस्टोन in the इन्जील कथा of the जीवन of यीशु , the अन्य  being the Transfiguration , Crucifixion , Resurrection , and Ascension .
Most Christian denominations view the baptism of Jesus as an important event and  a आधार लिये the ईसाई रीति of बपतिस्मा ( देखिए भी  ) .
In Eastern Christianity , Jesus ' baptism  is commemorated on 6 जनवरी , the feast  of Epiphany .
In the Roman Catholic Church , the Anglican  नियाज़ , the लूथरन चर्च और कुछ अन्य पश्चिमी denominations  , it is recalled on a day within the following week , the feast of the baptism of the Lord .
In Roman  catholicism , the बपतिस्मा of यीशु is एक of the चमकदार  Mysteries sometimes added to the Rosary .
It is a Trinitarian feast  in the पूर्वी परंपरागत चर्च  .
methylcobalamin ( दिखाया ) is  a form of vitamin B12 .
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as  अंधेरा रेड crystals कि freely रूप cherry-colored पारदर्शी  solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or  विटामिन b-12 , भी पुकारा cobalamin , is a water-soluble विटामिन साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the दिमाग  and nervous system , and for the formation of blood .
It is one  of the आठ b विटामिन  .
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body ,  विशेषकर affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण और विनियमन , लकिन भी वसीय एसिड संश्लेषण और उर्जा  production .
Neither  fungi , पौधे , nor पशु हैं सक्षम of  producing vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its  संश्लेषण , हालांकि अनेक भोजन हैं a प्राकृतिक सोर्स of b12 क्युकी of बैक्टीरियल symbiosis  .
The  विटामिन is the largest और सबसे structurally जटिल विटामिन  and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically related  यौगिकों ( vitamers ) , सब of जिससे have विटामिन कार्यकलाप  .
It contains  the biochemically विरल तत्व कोबाल्ट  .
Biosynthesis of the basic  ढांचा of the विटामिन is संपन्नता तभी by जीवाणु ( जिससे प्रायः उपज hydroxocobalamin ) ,  but conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be accomplished in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin ,  cyanocobalamin , करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति , लकिन is उत्पादित इससे बैक्टीरियल hydroxocobalamin और तब  used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements , and as a food additive , because of its stability and lower production cost .
In the body it is converted to the human physiological  फ़ॉर्म methylcobalamin और adenosylcobalamin , leaving पीछे the साइनाइड , albeit  in minimal concentration .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin ,  methylcobalamin , और adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in अधिक महंगी pharmacological उत्पाद और खाना पूरक  .
The extra  यूटिलिटी of ये is फिलहाल debated  .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its  संबंध to the बीमारी घातक रक्ताल्पता , जिससे is an असंक्राम्य बीमारी in जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of the पेट जिम्मेदार  for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal  अवशोषण of b12 , so a कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर , as देखी in घातक  anemia , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency  और उनके biochemical प्रभाव have चूंकि महरूम elucidated  .
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 war film produced , directed  और co-written by स्टेनली kubrick .
it is an अनुकूलन of गुस्ताव hasford 's 1979 अनोखा the short-timers और सितारों मैथ्यू modine , विंसेंट  D'Onofrio , R. Lee Ermey , Arliss Howard , and Adam Baldwin .
The film follows a platoon  of u.S. marines through उनके प्रशिक्षण और the अनुभवों of दो of the प्लाटून 's marines in  the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War .
The film 's title  refers to the पूरा मेटल जैकेट गोली प्रयुक्त by infantry  riflemen .
The film  प्राप्त नाजुक acclaim  .
It  प्राप्त an अकादमी पुरस्कार नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन adapted पटकथा  for Kubrick , Michael Herr and Gustav Hasford .
In 2001 , the American Film Institute placed  पूरा मेटल जैकेट at # 95 in उनके `` एएफआई 's 100 सालो ... 100 thrills ``  poll .
TMZ is a celebrity  न्यूज जालस्थल कि debuted on नवम्बर  8 , 2005 .
It was a collaboration between AOL and  telepictures प्रोडक्शन्स , a प्रभाग of warner भाईs. , जबतक समय warner divested एओएल  in 2009 .
However , it remained affiliated  साथ एओएल न्यूज और रै the एओएल न्यूज लोगो affixed in the  upper right corner .
The name TMZ stands for the historic `` studio zone ``  or 30-mile मण्डल दायरा इससे the चौराहे of वेस्ट बेवर्ली boulevard और उत्तर la cienega  Boulevard in Los Angeles .
TMZ 's managing editor is Harvey Levin ,  a lawyer-turned-journalist जो थी previously a विधिक विशेषज्ञ लिये the लॉस एंजिल्स टेलीविज़न  station KCBS-TV .
The site claims that it does not pay for stories or interviews  ; however , levin रै admitted कि tmz करता `` sometimes अदा स्त्रोत  for leads on stories '' .
Levin has stated that `` everything  is शोधकार्य और vetted  for accuracy . ''
A companion TV series , TMZ on TV  , debuted on सितंबर 10  , 2007 .
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher film created by Kevin  विलियमसन , निर्देशित by वेस craven और लिखा by ehren क्रूगर , अभिनीत  Neve Campbell , Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette .
It was released on February 4 , 2000  as the तीसरा किश्त in the चीख फिल्मी  series .
The events of the story are set three years after  those of चीख 2 और फ़ॉलो sidney प्रेस्कॉट ( कैम्पबेल ) जो रै गए into self-imposed अलगाव following the कार्यक्रम of the पिछला दो films लकिन is drawn to हॉलीवुड बाद a नई ghostface  begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 '' .
Scream 3 combines the  हिंसा of the slasher विधा साथ कॉमेडी और `` whodunit `` रहस्य जबकि  satirizing the cliché of film trilogies .
Unlike the previous Scream films , there was an increased emphasis on  comedic तत्व और the हिंसा और हॉरर थी घटाया in जवाब to increased पब्लिक scrutiny परिचय हिंसा  in media following the Columbine High School massacre .
The film was the concluding chapter of  the चीख श्रेणी जबतक it थी  revived with a sequel , Scream 4 , in 2011 .
Williamson provided a five-page outline for two  सिक्वेल to चीख जब auctioning उसके असली स्क्रिप्ट , उम्मीद to entice bidders साथ the  potential of buying a franchise .
Williamson 's commitments to other projects meant he was unable to develop a complete  स्क्रिप्ट लिये चीख 3 और लिखने कर्तव्य यहूद undertaken by ehren क्रूगर जो discarded much of विलियमसन  's notes .
Craven  और मार्को beltrami लौटे to सीधा और स्कोर the फिल्मी क्रमशः as वे था  with the previous two series entries .
Production was troubled with  स्क्रिप्ट rewrites , साथ पृष्ठों sometimes तभी तैयार on the दिन of फिल्मांकन , और  scheduling difficulties with the main cast .
Scream 3 performed both financially and  critically बदतर than इसके preceding films , कमाई over $ 161 लाख और साथ अनेक आलोचकों claiming कि the  film had become what Scream originally `` spoofed `` .
Despite negative criticism the film did receive  तारीफ़ साथ reviewers कॉलिंग it the पूर्ण समाप्त to the चीख  trilogy .
As of 2012 , the  फिल्मी is फिलहाल the क्रमांक 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in उत्तर अमेरिका , following चीख at  number 1 and Scream 2 at number 2 .
The  फिल्मी 's साउंडट्रैक थी well-received , बिता चौदह सप्ताह on  the Billboard 200 and reaching a high of # 32 .
Shoulder impingement syndrome , also called painful  चाप सिंड्रोम , supraspinatus सिंड्रोम , तैराक 's कंधे , और thrower 's कंधे , is a नैदानिक सिंड्रोम जिससे occurs जब the tendons of the rotator कफ मांसपेशियां become irritated और inflamed as वे pass  through the subacromial space , the passage beneath the acromion .
This  can परिणाम in पीड़ा , कमज़ोरी और घाटा  of movement at the shoulder .
JLA was a monthly comic book published by DC  कॉमिक्स इससे जनवरी 1997 to अप्रैल 2006 featuring the इंसाफ लीग  .
the औपनिवेशिक इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य कवर the इतिहास of यूरोपीय settlements इससे the प्रारंभ  of colonization of America until their incorporation into the United States .
in the लेट 16th सदी , इंग्लैण्ड , फ़्रांस , स्पेन और the नीदरलैंड्स शुभारम्भ  major colonization programs in eastern North America .
Small early attempts—such  as the अंग्रेज़ी खोया उपनिवेश of roanoke —often disappeared ; everywhere the मौत रेट  of the first arrivals was very high .
nevertheless कामयाब colonies यहूद  established .
European settlers came from a  किस्में of सोशल और धार्मिक समूह  .
No aristocrats settled permanently , but a  क्रमांक of adventurers , सैनिको , किसानो , और tradesmen  arrived .
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland , the Swedes and Finns of New Sweden , the English Quakers of  पेन्सिलवेनिया , the अंग्रेज़ी puritans of नई इंग्लैण्ड , the अंग्रेज़ी settlers of jamestown , और the `` worthy ग़रीब '' of जॉर्जिया , आए to the नई महाद्वीप और निर्मित colonies साथ  distinctive social , religious , political and economic styles .
Occasionally one colony took  कंट्रोल of another ( दौरान युद्धों between उनके  European parents ) .
Only in Nova Scotia ( now part of Canada ) did the  conquerors निकाल the पिछला colonists  .
Instead they all lived  पक्ष by पक्ष in  peace .
There were no major civil  युद्धों among the 13 colonies , और the दो मुख्य हथियारबंद विद्रोहों ( in वर्जिनिया  in 1676 and in New York in 1689–91 ) were short-lived failures .
Wars between the French and the British—the French and Indian Wars and Father  rale 's युद्ध —were तूल , और शामिल french-support लिये wabanaki confederacy हमले  on the frontiers .
By 1760 France was  पराजित और the अंग्रेजों जब्त इसके  colonies .
the चार पृथक regions यहूद : नई इंग्लैण्ड , the मध्य colonies , the chesapeake  Bay Colonies ( Upper South ) and the Lower South .
Some  इतिहासकारों add a पांचवां प्रदेश , the frontier ,  which was never separately organized .
By the time European  settlers arrived around 1600–1650 , the बहुमत of the देशी अमेरिकी जीना in the पूर्वी संयुक्त राज्य था महरूम decimated  by new diseases , introduced to them decades before by explorers and sailors .
देखिए समयरेखा of औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका लिये सूची  of historical events .
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt ( born February  20 , 1924 ) is an अमरीकी कलाकार , लेखक , अभिनेत्री , heiress , और socialite सबसे विख्यात  as an early developer of designer blue jeans .
She is a member of the  prominent वेंडरबिल्ट परिवार of नई यॉर्क और the माँ  of CNN 's Anderson Cooper .
Greece ( Romanization of Greek| )  , officially the हैलेनिक गणतंत्र ( ' ) , is a देश in southeast यूरोपीय  .
According to the 2011  जनसांख्यिकी , यूनानियों 's जनसांख्यिकी is around 11 लाख  .
Athens is the  स्वदेश 's पूंजी और largest नगर  , its urban area also including Piraeus .
Greece is strategically located at  the क्रॉसरोड्स of यूरोपीय , एशिया , the मध्य ईस्ट , और अफ़्रीकी , और रै जमीन सीमायें साथ  Albania , the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north , and Turkey to the northeast .
The Aegean Sea lies to the east of  मेनलैंड यूनानियों , the आयोनियन समुद्र to the वेस्ट , और the भूमध्यसागरीय समुद्र to the दक्षिण  .
Greece has the 11th longest coastline in the world at in length  , featuring a विशाल क्रमांक of आइलैंड्स ( लगभग 1,400 , of जिससे 227 हैं inhabited ) , सहित क्रेट , the  Dodecanese , the Cyclades , and the Ionian Islands among others .
Eighty percent of Greece  consists of kyu , of जिससे माउंट  Olympus is the highest at .
Modern Greece traces its roots to the civilization of Ancient  यूनानियों , generally माना the पालना of पश्चिमी  civilization .
As such , it is the birthplace of democracy , Western philosophy , the Olympic Games , Western literature  और historiography , राजनैतिक विज्ञान , प्रमुख वैज्ञानिक और गणितीय सिद्धान्त , और पश्चिमी नाटक  , including both tragedy and comedy .
This legacy is partly reflected in the seventeen  युनेस्को संसार विरासत साइट स्तिथ in यूनानियों , रैंकिंग it 7th in यूरोपीय और 13th in the  world .
The modern  यूनानी राज्य थी स्थापित in 1830 , following the  Greek War of Independence .
Greece is a founding member of the  संयुक्त राष्ट्र , रै महरूम a सदस्य of कया is अभी the यूरोपीय संघ चूंकि 1981 ( और the eurozone  since 2001 ) , and has been a member of NATO since 1952 .
यूनानियों is a विकसित देश साथ an उन्नत , high-income अर्थव्यवस्था और बहुत ऊँची मानकों of जीना , सहित the  world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010 .
Greece 's  अर्थव्यवस्था is भी the largest in the balkans , जहाँ यूनानियों is  an important regional investor .
A prime meridian is a  मध्याह्न , i.e . a लकीर of देशांतर , at जिससे देशांतर  is defined to be 0° .
A  प्रधान मध्याह्न और इसके विपरीत in a 360°-system , the 180th मध्याह्न  ( at 180° longitude ) , form a great circle .
This great circle  divides the गोला , e.g . the धरती , into  two hemispheres .
If one uses directions of East and West from a  पारिभाषित प्रधान मध्याह्न , तब वे can be  called Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere .
Gerardus Mercator in his Atlas Cosmographicae  ( 1595 ) उपयोग a प्रधान मध्याह्न कही बंद to 25°w , गुजर बस to the वेस्ट of  Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic .
His 180th meridian runs along the  जलसन्धि of anián ( बेरिंग जलसन्धि )
A prime meridian  is ultimately मनमानी , नापसंद an equator , जिससे is संकल्पित by the अक्ष of rotation—and  various conventions have been used or advocated in different regions and throughout history .
Minka Dumont  केली ( born minka dumont dufay ; जून 24 , 1980  ) is an American actress .
She is perhaps best known for her roles in  चार्ली 's फ़रिश्ते , शुक्रवार रात्रि लाइट्स , और the रूममेट  .
R.O.B . ( Robotic Operating Buddy )  , released in जापानी as the , is an accessory लिये the  Nintendo Entertainment System ( NES ) .
It was  released in जुलाई 1985 in जापानी और  later that year in North America .
It had a short product  जीवनकाल , साथ support लिये तभी दो खेल जिससे comprised the `` रोबोट श्रेणी  '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up .
R.O.B . was released with the intention of portraying the Nintendo  entertainment प्रणाली as कुछ अनोखा in अनुक्रम to alleviate खुदरा fears following  the video game crash of 1983 .
R.O.B . was  उपलब्धियाँ in the डीलक्स नियत , a विन्यास लिये the कंसोल कि शामिल , among अन्य  things , R.O.B . and Gyromite .
Stack-Up was purchased  separately और शामिल इसके अपना शारीरिक खेल  pieces .
The Walking Liberty half dollar was a silver 50-cent piece or half  डालर सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य मिंट इससे 1916 to 1947 ; it थी designed by एडाल्फ A. weinman  .
In 1915 , the new Mint Director , Robert W.  woolley , आए to मानना कि he थी नहीं तभी अनुमत लकिन जरूरी by विधि to बदलें सिक्का डिजाइन  that had been in use for 25 years .
He therefore began the process of replacing the Barber coinage : dimes , quarters and half  डॉलर , सब bearing समान डिजाइन by long-time मिंट engraver चार्ल्स E. नाई , और पहला struck  in 1892 .
Woolley had the Commission of Fine Arts  conduct a प्रतियोगिता , as a परिणाम of जिससे weinman थी चयनित  to design the dime and half dollar .
Weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the Sun  लिये the हाफ डालर proved मुश्किल to पूर्ण , और राजकोष सचिव विलियम G. mcadoo , जिनकी विभाग शामिल the मिंट , माना having  Barber create his own design .
Mint officials were successful in  getting weinman 's डिज़ाइन into उत्पादन , हालांकि it never struck बहुत खूब , जिससे may have महरूम a फ़ैक्टर in इसके बदलना by the फ्रैंकलिन  half dollar beginning in 1948 .
Nevertheless , art  इतिहासकार कॉर्नेलियस vermeule माना the टुकड़ा to be among  the most beautiful US coins .
Since 1986 , a  परिवर्धन of weinman 's obverse डिज़ाइन रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये the अमरीकी चांदी  Eagle .
The  टोयोटा 4runner is a mid-size खेल यूटिलिटी गाडी ( एसयूवी ) उत्पादित by the जापानी निर्माता टोयोटा  and sold throughout the world from 1984 to present .
In Japan it was  ज्ञात as the टोयोटा  Hilux Surf .
The original 4Runner was a compact SUV and little more than a Toyota pickup truck  साथ a fiberglass शेल over the bed , लकिन the मॉडल रै चूंकि undergone significant स्वतंत्र विकास into a क्रॉस  between a compact and a mid-size SUV .
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara plant  in tahara , aichi , जापानी , or at hino मोटर्स ' hamura , जापानी संयंत्र  , and in Brazil .
Its mid-size crossover SUV  बंटवारा is the टोयोटा highlander  .
This article deals with medicine as  practiced by प्रशिक्षित पेशेवर इससे प्राचीन  times to the present .
The ancient  उन्होंने था a प्रणाली of आयुर्विज्ञान कि थी बहुत उन्नत लिये इसके समय और बहकावे  later medical traditions .
The Egyptians  और babylonians दोनो introduced the अवधारणाओं of निदान  , prognosis , and medical examination .
The  यूनानियों गई भी further , और उन्नत as खूब  medical ethics .
The Hippocratic Oath , still taken by doctors  आज , थी लिखा in यूनानियों in the 5th सदी bce  .
In the  मध्यकालीन era , सर्जिकल practices inherited इससे the प्राचीन मास्टर्स यहूद improved और तब systematized in  Rogerius 's The Practice of Surgery .
विश्वविद्यालयों began व्यवस्थित प्रशिक्षण of physicians  around the years 1220 in Italy .
During the  पुनर्जागरण , समझना of anatomy improved , और the सूक्ष्मदर्शी  was invented .
The germ theory of  बीमारी in the 19th सदी led to cures लिये अनेक संक्रामक रोगों  .
सैन्य डॉक्टर उन्नत the विधि of आघात उपचार  and surgery .
Public health  उपायों यहूद विकसित विशेषकर in the 19th सदी as  the rapid growth of cities required systematic sanitary measures .
Advanced research centers opened in the early  20th सदी , प्रायः कनेक्ट साथ प्रमुख  hospitals .
The  mid-20th सदी थी characterized by नई biological  treatments , such as antibiotics .
These advancements ,  साथ साथ developments in रसायन , आनुवंशिकी , और lab प्रौद्योगिकी ( ऐसे as  the x-ray ) led to modern medicine .
Medicine  थी heavily professionalized in the 20th सदी , और नई करियर खोली to महिलाओं as नर्स  ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ) .
The 21st century  is characterized by बहुत उन्नत शोध  involving numerous fields of science .
The Hippocratic Corpus , is a collection of early medical works from ancient Greece strongly  संबद्ध साथ the प्राचीन यूनानी चिकित्सक हिपोक्रेटिस और उसके शिक्षाओं  .
Potassium is a  रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक k ( इससे neo-latin kalium  ) and atomic number 19 .
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white  क्षारीय मेटल कि oxidizes rapidly in एयर और is बहुत प्रतिक्रिया साथ जल , generating sufficient ऊष्मा  to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame .
Because potassium and sodium are chemically very  समान , उनके लवण यहूद नहीं at पहला differentiated  .
The existence of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from  1702 , और इस थी सिद्ध in 1807 जब पोटैशियम और सोडियम यहूद individually पृथक इससे अलग लवण  by electrolysis .
Potassium  in प्रकृति occurs तभी in  ionic salts .
As  ऐसे , it is मिला dissolved in seawater ( जिससे is 0.04 % पोटैशियम by वज़न )  , and is part of many minerals .
Most industrial  रासायनिक अनुप्रयोग of पोटैशियम employ the अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची घुलनशीलता  in water of potassium compounds , such as potassium soaps .
Potassium metal has only a few special applications , being  replaced in सबसे रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ साथ सोडियम मेटल  .
Potassium ions are necessary  लिये the फलन of सब जीना  cells .
Potassium ion diffusion is  a कुंजी यांत्रिकी in तंत्रिका हस्तांतरण , और पोटैशियम depletion in पशु , सहित इंसानो , परिणाम  in various cardiac dysfunctions .
पोटैशियम accumulates in संयंत्र कोशिकाएं , और यूँ भैस फल और सब्जियां  are a good dietary source of it .
Conversely , most plants except specialist halophytes are intolerant  of नमक , और सोडियम is उपस्थित in उन्हें तभी in कम विशेषज्ञता  .
This resulted in  पोटैशियम पहला होने पृथक इससे potash  , the ashes of plants , giving the element its name .
For the same reason , heavy crop production rapidly depletes soils of potassium ,  और agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of वैश्विक पोटैशियम रासायनिक उत्पादन  .
The  सिंगापुर डालर or डालर ( चिह्न : $ ; कोड : sgd ) is the आधिकारिक  currency of Singapore .
It is normally abbreviated with the dollar sign $ , or  alternatively s $ to फर्क it इससे अन्य डालर -denominated  currencies .
it is विभाजित into 100  cents .
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei  करेंसी और मौद्रिक फलक स्टिल maintain the ऐतिहासिक exchangeability of उनके दो मुद्राएँ , the  Singaporean dollar and the Brunei dollar , respectively .
The dollar is accepted as  `` प्रथागत टेंडर '' in ब्रुनेई according to the करेंसी  Interchangeability Agreement .
Likewise , the Brunei  डालर is customarily स्वीकृत in  Singapore
James Samuel Coleman ( May 12 , 1926 – March 25 , 1995 ) was an American  समाजशास्त्री , theorist और अनुभवजन्य शोधकर्ता , आधारित chiefly at the विश्वविद्यालयों of  Chicago .
He was elected  अध्यक्ष of the अमरीकी  Sociological Association .
Coleman studied the  समाजशास्त्र of शिक्षा , पब्लिक नीति , और थी एक of the earliest उपयोक्ता of the पद `` सोशल  capital `` .
His Foundations of  सोशल सिद्धान्त बहकावे समाजशास्त्रीय  theory .
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman Report '' (  समता of शैक्षणिक अवसर , 1966 ) यहूद दो of the सबसे heavily cited किताबे in  educational sociology .
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform  शैक्षणिक सिद्धान्त , reshape नेशनल शिक्षा नीतियों , और बहकावे पब्लिक और scholarly राय regarding the भूमिका of schooling  in determining equality and productivity in the United States .
Superman ( from  dc कॉमिक्स ) थी the पहला सुपरहीरो निर्मित  , art by Jim Lee .
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super hero ) is a type of stock character  possessing `` असाधारण or superhuman शक्तियां '' और समर्पित to protecting the पब्लिक  .
चूंकि the डेब्यू of the prototypical सुपरहीरो सुपरमैन in 1938 , कहानियां of superheroes—ranging इससे ब्रैड episodic adventures to continuing  years-long sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into other media .
the शब्द itself तिथियाँ to  at least 1917 .
A female superhero is  sometimes पुकारा a superheroine ( भी rendered super-heroine or सुपर  heroine ) .
`` SUPER  नायक '' is a ट्रेडमार्क co-owned by dc कॉमिक्स  and Marvel Comics .
By most  परिभाषाएं , वर्ण do नहीं सख्ती आवश्यकता वास्तविक superhuman शक्तियां to be deemed superheroes , हालांकि शर्तें ऐसे as costumed अपराधों सेनानी or नकाबपोश vigilantes हैं  sometimes used to refer to those such as Batman and Green Arrow without such powers who share other common superhero traits .
Such characters were generally referred to as `` mystery men  '' in the so-called सुनहरी आयु of कॉमिक किताबे to फर्क उन्हें इससे वर्ण साथ super-powers  .
Normally ,  superheroes उपयोग उनके शक्तियां to काउंटर day-to-day अपराधों जबकि भी combating खतरे  against humanity by supervillains , their criminal counterparts .
प्रायः , एक of ये supervillains होगा be the सुपरहीरो  's archenemy .
As well , some longrunning superheroes , such as  सुपरमैन , बैटमैन , spider-man और आयरन man प्रत्येक रै a rogues  gallery of enemies .
As well , superheroes sometimes will combat such  irregular खतरे as एलियंस , magical/ काल्पनिक entities , अमरीकी युद्ध दुश्मनों ऐसे as नात्सीवाद or  communism , and godlike or demonic creatures .
The following is a historical list of actors and primary  अक्षर भूमिकाएँ जिससे appear on the अमरीकी साबुन ओपेरा एक जीवन  to Live .
The Shawshank Redemption  is a 1994 अमरीकी नाटक फिल्मी लिखा और निर्देशित by फ़्रैंक darabont और अभिनीत  Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman .
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption , the film  tells the स्टोरी of एंडी dufresne , a बैंकर जो खर्च nearly दो दशकों in shawshank राज्य थाना लिये the हत्या of उसके बीवी और उसके प्रेमी despite उसके दावा of innocence  .
During his time at the prison , he befriends a fellow inmate , Ellis Boyd `` Red '' Redding , and finds himself protected by  the गार्ड बाद the वार्डन begins using उसे in उसके धन laundering आपरेशन  .
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget , the film received favorable  समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , अनेक पुरस्कार nominations , और रै चूंकि enjoyed a उल्लेखनीय  life on cable television , VHS , DVD , and Blu-ray .
It  थी शामिल in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's  100 Years ... 100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition .
IT  प्रबन्धन is the अनुशासन whereby सब of the प्रौद्योगिकी संसाधन of  a firm are managed in accordance with its needs and priorities .
These resources may  शामिल ठोस निवेश जैसे कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर , तन्त्र , आंकड़ा , संजाल और आंकड़ा केन्द्र सुविधाएं , as खूब as the staffs जो हैं नियुक्त  to maintain them .
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of the  मौलिक प्रबन्धन कृत्यों , जैसे budgeting , स्टॉफ , और आयोजन और controlling , साथ साथ अन्य पहलुओं कि हैं अद्वितीय to प्रौद्योगिकी , जैसे बदलें  management , software design , network planning , tech support etc .
The Penitentiary of New Mexico Prison Riot , which took place on February 2 and 3  , 1980 , in the राज्य 's अधिकतम सुरक्षा थाना दक्षिण of सांता fe , थी एक of the सबसे हिंसक थाना दंगे in the इतिहास of the अमरीकी correctional  system : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates were treated for injuries .
None of the 12  अधिकारियों लिया बंधक यहूद मारे , लकिन सात यहूद treated लिये चोटों  caused by beatings and rapes .
This was the third major riot at the NM State  penitentiary , the पहला occurring on 19 जुलाई 1922 और the दूसरी on 15 जून 1953  .
लेखक रोजर मॉरिस suggests the मौत टोल may have महरूम उच्चतर , as a क्रमांक of लाशें यहूद incinerated  or dismembered during the course of the mayhem .
`` Red  कार्डिनल '' redirects  here .
For  the संयंत्र erythrina herbacea  , see Coral Bean .
The Northern Cardinal (  cardinalis cardinalis ) is a उत्तर अमरीकी बर्ड in the genus cardinalis ; it is भी ज्ञात colloquially  as the redbird or common cardinal .
it can be मिला in दक्षिणी कनाडा , through the पूर्वी संयुक्त राज्य इससे  Maine to Texas and south through Mexico .
It is found  in वुडलैंड्स , gardens , shrublands  , and swamps .
The  उत्तरी कार्डिनल is a mid-sized songbird साथ a देह लंबाई  of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ) .
It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on  the फेस जिससे is ब्लैक in the पुरूष और धूसर in the मादा  .
The male is a  हर्षोल्लास रेड , जबकि the मादा is a फीकी  red-brown shade .
The  उत्तरी कार्डिनल is मुख्यतः granivorous , लकिन भी फ़ीड्स  on insects and fruit .
The male behaves  territorially , अंकन आउट उसके territory  with song .
During  प्रेमालाप , the पुरूष फ़ीड्स बीज to the  female beak-to-beak .
A clutch of three  to चार अंडे is रखी , और दो to चार चंगुल हैं  produced each year .
It was once prized  as a पालतु , लकिन इसके बिक्री as पिंजरा पक्षियों is अभी बैन in the संयुक्त  States by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 .
Surface runoff , also  पुकारा nonpoint सोर्स प्रदूषण , इससे a फार्म फ़ील्ड in आयोवा दौरान  a rain storm .
Topsoil as well as farm  fertilizers और अन्य संभावित प्रदूषक चलाएं बंद unprotected फार्म फ़ील्ड  when heavy rains occur .
Topsoil is the upper ,  outermost परत of मृदा , प्रायः  the top to .
It has the highest concentration  of सशुल्क पदार्थ और microorganisms और is जहाँ सबसे of the धरती 's biological मृदा  activity occurs .
Musical cryptogram : ``  aschbeg '' नियत in schoenberg 's sechs kleine klavierstücke  , Op . 19 , no . 1 , m. 5 .
Note  कि the टीप do नहीं आइये in स्पेलिंग अनुक्रम लकिन हैं  all adjacent ( not separated by other notes ) .
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke ,  op . 19 ( or छह छोटी पियानो टुकड़े ) is a नियत of टुकड़े लिये सोलो पियानो लिखा by the आस्ट्रिया  composer Arnold Schoenberg , published in 1913 .
McAfee , Inc. ( ) is an American global computer security software  कम्पनी headquartered in सांता क्लारा , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , और the संसार 's largest समर्पित सुरक्षा  technology company .
As of  फ़रवरी 28 , 2011 , मैक्एफ़ी is a wholly  owned subsidiary of Intel .
McAfee 's competitors in the antivirus industry are Avira , BitDefender , BullGuard ,  f-secure , frisk , kaspersky , symantec , और ट्रेंड सूक्ष्म to  name a few .
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born  margherita lotti 1381 - may 22 , 1457 ) थी an इतालवी augustinian नन , विधवा  and saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church .
Rita was  शादीशुदा at an जल्दी  age .
The marriage lasted for 18 years , during  जिससे वो is remembered लिये उसके ईसाई मान as a मॉडल बीवी और माँ जो बना प्रयत्न to बदलें उसके  husband from his abusive behavior .
upon the हत्या of उसके husband by another feuding परिवार  , she sought to dissuade her sons from revenge .
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters ,  जहाँ वो थी ज्ञात लिये practicing mortification of the flesh , साथ साथ the apparent efficacy of  her prayers .
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession , and is  प्रायः portrayed साथ a bleeding घाव on उसके माथे , जिससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर दावा to have महरूम a आंशिक stigmata  .
The Roman  कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर , अंतर्गत the pontificate of पोप leo xiii officially canonized रीता on may  24 , 1900 , while her feast day is celebrated every May 22 .
In many pious Catholic countries ,  रीता is ज्ञात to be a patroness लिये abused पत्नियां और शोक  women .
North America is a continent wholly within the  उत्तरी गोलार्ध और लगभग wholly भीतर the पश्चिमी  Hemisphere .
It is also considered a northern  उपमहाद्वीप of the americas  .
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean , to the east by the Atlantic Ocean ,  to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण by the प्रशांत समंदर , और to the southeast by दक्षिण अमेरिका और the caribbean  Sea .
North America covers an area of about 24,709,000  वर्गाकार किलोमीटर ( 9,540,000 वर्गाकार मील ) , परिचय 4.8 % of the ग्रह 's सतह or  about 16.5 % of its land area .
As of July  2008 , इसके जनसांख्यिकी थी अनुमानित at nearly 529 लाख लोगों आरपार 23 स्वतंत्र राज्य  , representing about 7.5 % of the human population .
North America is the  third-largest महाद्वीप in क्षेत्रफल , following एशिया और अफ़्रीकी , और the चौथी in जनसांख्यिकी बाद  Asia , Africa , and Europe .
The first people to live in North  अमेरिका यहूद paleoindians जो began to arrive दौरान the पिछला glacial काल by क्रासिंग the  Bering land bridge .
They differentiated into a number of diverse cultures  और समुदायों आरपार the महाद्वीप  .
The largest and most advanced Pre-Columbian civilizations in  उत्तर अमेरिका यहूद the aztecs in कया is अभी मैक्सिको और the mayans in सेंट्रल  America .
यूरोपीय colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th और 17th सदियां , wiping  out large numbers of the native populations and beginning an era of European dominance .
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28 , 1985 ) ,  बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम J. कोल , is an अमरीकी hip-hop रिकॉर्डिंग  artist and record producer from Fayetteville , North Carolina .
In 2009 , he  became the पहला कलाकार to चिह्न to jay-z 's आरओसी  Nation label .
His long-awaited  डेब्यू एल्बम , हकदार कोल संसार : the sideline स्टोरी , थी released on सितंबर  27 , 2011 .
The album debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200  , शीर्ष r & b एल्बम और शीर्ष रैप एल्बम चार्ट , selling अधिक than 218,000  in its first week .
he प्राप्त a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन नई कलाकार  at the 54th Grammy Awards .
The two main  वर्ण of the श्रेणी , ratchet ( सही ) और  Clank ( left ) .
Ratchet &  clank is a श्रेणी of मंच वीडियो खेल  .
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many different PlayStation consoles ,  ऐसे as प्लेस्टेशन 2 और प्लेस्टेशन 3 साथ the exclusion of आकार matters और रहस्य एजेंट clank , जिससे यहूद विकसित by ऊँची  Impact Games for the PlayStation Portable .
प्रत्येक खेल in the श्रेणी रै महरूम released लिये प्रत्येक कंसोल ,  as the IP is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment .
An animated feature film adaptation  उत्पादित by rainmaker entertainment और नाकेबंदी entertainment is अनुसूचित  for a theatrical release sometime in 2015 .
The games take place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an  animalistic human-like अक्षर ज्ञात as a lombax , जो is a मैकेनिक ) और clank ( a diminutive , sentient रोबोट ) as वे सफर through the ब्रह्मांड , छायांकन it इससे दुष्ट  forces on a regular basis .
The series is noted for the  समावेश of अनेक exotic और अद्वितीय , over the शीर्ष हथियार और डिवाइस , a अवधारणा  that Insomniac Games also expanded into their other games .
A will or testament is a legal declaration by which a  व्यक्ति , the testator , names एक or अधिक व्यक्तियों to मैनेज his/her  estate and provides for the transfer of his property at death .
For the  devolution of प्रॉपर्टी नहीं disposed of by होगा , देखिए उत्तराधिकार  and intestacy .
In the strictest sense , a `` will  '' रै historically महरूम सीमित to रियल प्रॉपर्टी जबकि `` वसीयत '' applies तभी to dispositions of निजी प्रॉपर्टी ( यूँ giving वृद्धि to the लोकप्रिय शीर्षक  of the document as `` Last Will and Testament '' ) , though this distinction is seldom observed today .
A will may  भी बनाएँ a testamentary विश्वास कि is प्रभावी  only after the death of the testator .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain  सुविधाएँ 15 घंटों of भंडार और can सप्लाई शक्ति 24  hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat  इससे the सूर्य , रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies  .
Solar energy  technologies शामिल सौर हीटिंग , सौर photovoltaics , सौर थर्मल विद्युत , सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis , जिससे  can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies  हैं broadly characterized as either passive सौर or क्रियाशील सौर depending on  the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques include the  उपयोग of photovoltaic panels और सौर थर्मल collectors  to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include  orienting a भवन to the सूर्य , selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing  properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 ,  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी कहा कि `` the विकास of सस्ती , inexhaustible और  clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible  और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन , बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता , reduce प्रदूषण , निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating जलवायु बदलें , और रखना चट्टान ईंधन कीमतें  lower than otherwise .
ये लाभ  are global .
Hence the additional costs of the  प्रोत्साहन लिये जल्दी deployment चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ;  they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
सर थामस अधिक ( ; 7 फ़रवरी 14786 जुलाई 1535 ) , ज्ञात to रोमन catholics as संत थामस अधिक चूंकि 1935 , थी an  English lawyer , social philosopher , author , statesman , and noted Renaissance humanist .
He was an  महत्वपूर्ण पार्षद to हेनरी viii of इंग्लैण्ड और थी रब  Chancellor from October 1529 to 16 May 1532 .
He was canonized by  पोप पायस xi in 1935 as एक of the जल्दी शहीदो of the schism कि अलग the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे  Rome in the 16th century .
In 2000 , Pope John Paul  ii घोषित उसे संरक्षक of कैथोलिक कूटनीतिज्ञों और राजनेता  .
More was an opponent of the Protestant  reformation , in particular of मार्टिन लूथर और विलियम  Tyndale .
However , since 1980 , he is also  commemorated by the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड as a reformation  martyr .
More coined the word `` utopia `` – a  नाम he दिया to the आदर्श और काल्पनिक द्वीप स्वदेश , the राजनैतिक प्रणाली of जिससे he  described in Utopia , published in 1516 .
He opposed the King 's separation from the Roman  कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और refused to accept उसे as परम् सिर of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड , a शीर्षक जिससे था महरूम दिए by पार्लियामेंट through  the Act of Supremacy of 1534 .
He was  imprisoned in 1534 लिये उसके refusal to लो the शपथ जरूरी by the पहला उत्तराधिकार अधिनियम  , because the act disparaged Papal Authority and Henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon .
In 1535 , he was tried for  देशद्रोह , convicted on perjured गवाही  , and beheaded .
More also  helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at लोभी '' to औसत `` शिद्दत trying भी व्यर्थ बाते '' , in उसके संवाद of सुकून  Against Tribulation .
Intellectuals  और कूटनीतिज्ञों आरपार यूरोपीय यहूद दंग by अधिक 's  execution .
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose soul was more pure than any snow , whose genius was  ऐसे कि इंग्लैण्ड never था और never again होगा have इसके जैसे  '' .
There was a more controversial  पक्ष to अधिक 's जीवन , क्युकी he advocated the persecution और निष्पादन  of Protestants who refused to recant their faith .
however , the निर्णय of इतिहास रै महरूम largely willing to forgive इस in लाइट of the टाइम्स he  lived in and his martyrdom in the Roman Catholic cause .
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said More was `` the person of  the महानतम पुण्य इस किंगडम कभी उत्पादित '' , a भावना साथ जिससे सैमुएल  Johnson agreed .
Historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said in 1977 that More was `` the first great Englishman whom we  महसूस कि we जान , the सबसे saintly of humanists , the सबसे इंसान of संतो , the सार्वभौमिक man of हमारी कूल उत्तरी पुनर्जागरण . ''
Captain Nemo  , भी ज्ञात as प्रिंस dakkar , is a fictional अक्षर invented  by the French science fiction author Jules Verne .
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels , Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 ) and The Mysterious Island ( 1874 ) ,  और makes a कैमियो रूप in वर्न 's खेल यात्रा through the नामुमकिन ( 1882  ) .
Nemo , one of  the सबसे प्रसिद्ध antiheroes in fiction  , is a mysterious figure .
The son of an Indian Raja , he is a scientific genius who roams the depths of the sea in his  पनडुब्बी , the नॉटिलस , जिससे थी निर्मित on a उजाड़ द्वीप  .
Nemo tries to project a stern ,  नियंत्रित विश्वास , लकिन he is चलित by a प्यास लिये प्रतिशोध और a द्वेष of साम्राज्यवाद ( विशेषकर the  British Empire ) .
He is also wracked by remorse  over the मौतों of उसके क्रू सदस्यों और भी by the मौतों of दुश्मन  sailors .
Nemo has appeared in  विभिन्न adaptations of वर्न 's novels , सहित films , जहाँ  he has been portrayed by a number of different actors .
He has furthermore been adopted by other  लेखक लिये समावेश in उनके novels , सबसे notably in एलन मूर 's the लीग of असाधारण सज्जनों और फिलिप जोस  Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg .
Listed below  हैं the प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल टीमों साथ the बेहतरीन ऋतु  won-lost records in history , as determined by winning percentage ( .700 or better ) , minimum 120 games played .
ध्वनिक coupler  modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a device that modulates an  एनालॉग वाहक सिग्नल to encode डिजिटल सूचना , और भी demodulates ऐसे a वाहक सिग्नल to  decode the transmitted information .
The goal is to  उपज a सिग्नल कि can be transmitted easily और decoded  to reproduce the original digital data .
Modems can be  प्रयुक्त over कोई अर्थात् of transmitting एनालॉग सिग्नल , इससे  light emitting diodes to radio .
The most familiar example is a voice band modem that turns the  डिजिटल आंकड़ा of a निजी कंप्यूटर into modulated विद्युत सिग्नल in the आवाज़ आवृत्ति दायरा  of a telephone channel .
These signals can be transmitted over telephone  लाइनों और demodulated by another मॉडेम at the receiver पक्ष to रिकवर the डिजिटल  data .
Modems are generally classified by the  राशि of आंकड़ा वे can भेजें in a दिए ईकाई of समय , प्रायः expressed in बिट्स प्रति दूसरी ( bit/s  , or bps ) , or bytes per second ( B/s ) .
Modems can  alternatively be वर्गीकृत by उनके प्रतीक  rate , measured in baud .
The baud  ईकाई denotes प्रतीकों प्रति दूसरी , or the क्रमांक  of times per second the modem sends a new signal .
For example ,  the itu v.21 मानक प्रयुक्त ऑडियो आवृत्ति शिफ़्ट keying साथ दो संभावित बारंबारता  corresponding to two distinct symbols ( or one bit per symbol ) , to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud .
By contrast , the original ITU V.22 standard , which was able to transmit and receive  चार पृथक प्रतीकों ( दो बिट्स प्रति प्रतीक ) , संभाला 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 प्रतीकों प्रति दूसरी  ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying .
The  घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता is a बयान अपनाया by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4 , 1776 , जिससे घोषित  that the thirteen American colonies , then at war with Great Britain , regarded themselves as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
बजाय वे अभी formed a नई nation—the  United States of America .
John Adams was a leader in pushing for  स्वतंत्रता , जिससे थी unanimously स्वीकृत  on July 2 .
A committee had  already drafted the औपचारिक घोषणा , to  be ready when congress voted on independence .
Adams  persuaded the कमेटी to चुनें थामस जेफरसन to लिखें the असली ड्राफ्ट of the दस्तावेज़  , which congress would edit to produce the final version .
The Declaration  थी ultimately a औपचारिक स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट  Britain , more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the Independence Day is  मनाये on जुलाई 4 , हालांकि  Adams wanted July 2 .
After  ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई 4 , कॉंग्रेस जारी  the Declaration of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap broadside that  थी widely वितरित और पढ़ा to the पब्लिक  .
The most famous version of the  घोषणा , a हस्ताक्षरित नक़ल कि is popularly regarded as the  Declaration of Independence , is displayed at the National Archives in Washington , D.C .
Although  the wording of the घोषणा थी स्वीकृत on जुलाई 4 , the तिथि  of its signing was August 2 .
The original July 4 United States Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता पाण्डुलिपि थी खोया जबकि सब अन्य नक़ल have  been derived from this original document .
The sources and interpretation of the  घोषणा have महरूम the विषय of much scholarly  inquiry .
The Declaration justified the  स्वतंत्रता of the संयुक्त राज्य by लिस्टिंग औपनिवेशिक grievances विरूद्ध किंग जार्ज iii , और by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक और विधिक अधिकारों , सहित a सही of क्रान्ति  .
Having served its original purpose in  announcing स्वतंत्रता , the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा थी initially  ignored after the American Revolution .
Since  तब , it रै आइये to be माना a प्रमुख बयान  on human rights , particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident ,  कि सब मेन हैं निर्मित बराबर , कि वे हैं endowed by उनके निर्माता साथ निश्चित unalienable अधिकारों , कि among ये  are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness .
This has been called `` one of the  best-known वाक्य in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '' , containing `` the सबसे potent और consequential  words in American history . ''
The passage  आए to represent a moral मानक to जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य  should strive .
This view was  notably प्रचारित by अब्राहम lincoln , जो माना the घोषणा to be the न्यास of उसके राजनैतिक  philosophy , and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted .
It has inspired work  लिये the अधिकारों of अधिकारहीन लोगों throughout the  world .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था of ग्रीनलैंड can be characterized as छोटी  , mixed and vulnerable .
The present economy consists of a big public sector and comprehensive foreign trade  , जिससे रै resulted in an अर्थव्यवस्था साथ अवधि of दमदार विकास , considerable महंगाई , बेरोजगारी समस्याएं और चरम dependence on  capital inflow from Denmark and use of outside , mainly Danish , skilled labor .
GDP per capita is similar to  the औसत यूरोपीय economies लकिन the अर्थव्यवस्था is critically निर्भर upon substantial support इससे the डैनिश सरकारी , जिससे आपूर्तियाँ परिचय हाफ the revenues of  the home rule government who in turn employ about 8,000 Greenlanders out of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ) .
Unemployment nonetheless remains high , with the rest of  the अर्थव्यवस्था निर्भर upon माँग लिये निर्यात of  shrimp and fish .
Hydrogen is a  रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक h और परमाणु  number 1 .
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ) , hydrogen is the lightest element and its monatomic form ( H1 ) is the  सबसे abundant रासायनिक पदार्थ , constituting roughly 75 % of the ब्रह्मांड 's baryonic  mass .
Non- remnant stars  हैं मुख्यतः रचित of हाइड्रोजन  in its plasma state .
At standard temperature and  दबाव , हाइड्रोजन is a colorless , गंधहीन , tasteless , non-toxic , nonmetallic  , highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular formula H2 .
Most of the hydrogen on  धरती is in अणुओं ऐसे as जल और सशुल्क यौगिकों क्युकी हाइड्रोजन readily फ़ॉर्म  covalent compounds with most non-metallic elements .
Hydrogen plays  a विशेषकर महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in acid-base रसायन साथ अनेक प्रतिक्रियाएँ exchanging  protons between soluble molecules .
In  ionic यौगिकों , it can लो a ऋणात्मक चार्ज ( an anion ज्ञात as a हाइड्राइड और लिखा as h−  ) , or as a positively charged species H+ .
The latter cation is written  as हालांकि रचित of a bare प्रोटॉन , लकिन in वास्तविकता , हाइड्रोजन cations in ionic  compounds always occur as more complex species .
The most common isotope of  हाइड्रोजन is protium ( नाम rarely प्रयुक्त , प्रतीक 1h ) साथ a सिंगल प्रोटॉन  and no neutrons .
As the simplest atom known , the  हाइड्रोजन अणु रै महरूम of सैद्धांतिक उपयोग  .
For example , as the only neutral atom with an analytic solution to the Schrödinger  समीकरण , the पढ़ाई of the energetics और संबंध of the हाइड्रोजन अणु निभाई a कुंजी भूमिका in the विकास of क्वांटम यांत्रिकी  .
Hydrogen gas was first  artificially उत्पादित in the जल्दी 16th सदी , via the  mixing of metals with acids .
In 1766–81 , Henry Cavendish was the first to recognize that hydrogen gas was a discrete  पदार्थ , और कि it produces जल जब burned , a प्रॉपर्टी जिससे बाद दिया it इसके नाम : in यूनानी , हाइड्रोजन अर्थात्  `` water-former '' .
Industrial production is mainly  इससे the भाप reforming of प्राकृतिक गैस , और कम प्रायः इससे अधिक energy-intensive हाइड्रोजन उत्पादन विधि  like the electrolysis of water .
Most hydrogen is employed near its production  साईट , साथ the दो largest उपयोग होने चट्टान ईंधन प्रसंस्करण ( e.g. , hydrocracking ) और अमोनिया उत्पादन , ज़्यादातर लिये the  fertilizer market .
Hydrogen is a  चिंता in metallurgy as it can embrittle अनेक धातुओं , complicating the डिज़ाइन of pipelines  and storage tanks .
Unstoppable is a 2010  अमरीकी कार्रवाई थ्रिलर फिल्मी निर्देशित by टोनी स्कॉट , लिखा by चिह्नित bomback  , and starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine .
The film , loosely  आधारित on the real-life csx 8888 घटना , tells the स्टोरी of a runaway भाड़ा ट्रैन , और the दो  men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to stop it .
It was  स्कॉट 's फाइनल विशेषता फिल्मी पहले  his death in 2012 .
The film was released in  the संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा on नवम्बर 12 , 2010 , और in the संयुक्त किंगडम  on November 24 , 2010 .
It received mostly favorable reviews from film critics ; it garnered a ``  certified भैस '' दरजा on सड़े टमाटर आधारित upon समग्र समीक्षाएँ और a दरजा of `` generally  favorable reviews '' at Metacritic .
The film  थी मनोनीत लिये an अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन ध्वनि संपादन at  the 83rd Academy Awards , but lost to Inception .
In photography , bracketing is the general technique of taking  अनेक गोलियाँ of the वही विषय using अलग कैमरा जमावट  .
Bracketing is useful and often  अनुशंसित in परिस्थितियों कि मेक it मुश्किल to obtain a संतोषजनक चित्र साथ a सिंगल शॉट , विशेषकर जब a छोटी विभिन्नता in  exposure parameters has a comparatively large effect on the resulting image .
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a setting on the camera to take several  bracketed गोलियाँ ( in कंट्रास्ट to the फ़ोटोग्राफ़र altering the जमावट by हाथ between प्रत्येक शॉट  ) .
दिए the समय it takes to accomplish अनेक गोलियाँ , it is typically , लकिन नहीं सदा  , used for static subjects .
Insulated glazing ( IG ) , more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane , and increasingly triple glazing/pane )  हैं दोगुना or ट्रिपल कांच खिड़की panes अलग by an एयर or अन्य गैस भर स्पेस to reduce ऊष्मा ट्रांसफ़र आरपार a भाग of  the building envelope .
insulated कांच इकाई हैं manufactured साथ कांच in दायरा of मोटाई इससे 3 mm  to 10 mm or more in special applications .
Laminated or  tempered कांच may भी be प्रयुक्त as भाग of the  construction .
Most units are  manufactured साथ the वही मोटाई of कांच प्रयुक्त on दोनो panes लकिन खास अनुप्रयोग ऐसे as ध्वनिक क्षीणन or सुरक्षा may आवश्यकता  wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit .
A sectioned diagram of a fixed Insulated  चमकीले ईकाई ( igu ) , indicating the क्रमांकन सम्मेलन प्रयुक्त in इस आलेख  .
Surface # 1 is facing outside , Surface # 2 is the inside  सतह of the exterior फलक , सतह # 3 is the बाहर सतह of the आंतरिक फलक , और सतह # 4 is  the inside surface of interior pane .
the खिड़की फ़्रेम is labelled # 5 , a spacer is indicated as # 6 , seals हैं दिखाया in रेड ( # 7 ) , the आतंरिक खुलासा  is on the right hand side ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed unit ( a major cause of  असामयिक विफलता ) , निर्माताओं उपयोग a नियम of अंगूठा कि permits a अंतर of 1 mm between the मोटाई of the  panes of glass used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit .
For example , a unit may be  ordered साथ a 4 mm फलक on the exterior और a 3 mm फलक on the आंतरिक  .
ये विसंगतियाँ हैं अनुमत लिये architectural  and cost reasons .
Other combinations can be specified and produced but the manufacturer  may आरक्षित the सही to सीमा the पद of the वारंटी or इंकार to वारंटी  the unit altogether .
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned unit are named according to the following convention :  सतह # 1 ( facing बाहर ) , सतह # 2 ( अंदर of बाहर फलक ) , सतह # 3 ( बाहर of अंदर फलक ) और सतह # 4 ( अंदर सतह  of inside pane ) .
Applying the corresponding  नामकरण लिये ट्रिपल paned इकाई परिणाम in सतहों # 1 through  # 6 .
The  प्रदर्शन of insulating glazing can be परिवर्धित  through the use of the following:
A typical installation of insulated  glazing खिड़कियाँ साथ upvc खिड़की फ्रेम्स  .
सेलेनियम is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ प्रतीक  Se and atomic number 34 .
It is a  अधातु साथ गुण कि हैं इंटरमीडिएट between those of इसके आवधिक तालिका column-adjacent  chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium .
It rarely occurs  in इसके elemental राज्य in प्रकृति , or as pure अयस्क यौगिकों  .
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` Moon '' ) was discovered in 1817 by Jöns Jacob Berzelius , who noted the similarity  of the नई तत्व to the previously-known tellurium ( नामित लिये the धरती )  .
Selenium is found impurely in  मेटल sulfide ores , जहाँ it partially replaces the गंधक  .
Commercially ,  सेलेनियम is उत्पादित as a byproduct in the शोधन  of these ores , most often during copper production .
Minerals that  हैं pure selenide or selenate यौगिकों  are known , but are rare .
the मुख्य वाणिज्यिक उपयोग लिये सेलेनियम आज हैं  in glassmaking and in pigments .
Selenium is a  सेमीकंडक्टर और is प्रयुक्त in  photocells .
Uses in electronics , once important ,  have महरूम ज़्यादातर supplanted by सिलिकॉन  semiconductor devices .
Selenium continues to be used in a few types of DC power surge  protectors और एक प्रकार of fluorescent  quantum dot .
Selenium salts  हैं विषाक्त in विशाल amounts , लकिन ट्रेस amounts हैं जरुरी लिये  cellular function in many organisms , including all animals .
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and  thioredoxin reductase ( जिससे indirectly reduce निश्चित oxidized अणुओं in पशु और  some plants ) .
It  is भी मिला in तीन deiodinase एंजाइमों , जिससे बदलें एक थायराइड  hormone to another .
Selenium requirements in plants differ by  प्रजाति , साथ कुछ पौधे requiring अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts , और अन्य जाहिर requiring  none .
The United States presidential  चुनाव of 2008 थी the 56th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय  election .
It was  आयोजित on मंगलवार , नवम्बर 4 ,  2008 .
डेमोक्रेट बराक ओबामा , तब the जूनियर सीनेटर इससे इलिनोइस  , defeated Republican John McCain , the senior Senator from Arizona .
As the  अभियान progressed , the युद्ध in इराकी और outgoing रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश  had become increasingly unpopular , and the major-party candidates ran on a platform of change and reform .
Domestic policy and the economy eventually emerged as the main themes in  the पिछला few महीने of the चुनाव अभियान बाद the onset of the worst मंदी चूंकि the 1930s  .
Obama would  go on to जीत a निर्णायक विजय over मैक्केन in दोनो the चुनावी  and popular vote .
Obama received the most votes for a  अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी in अमरीकी इतिहास , और जीती the लोकप्रिय और चुनावी vote by the largest हाशिया in 12 सालो , as खूब as the largest प्रतिशत  of the popular vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century .
This was the first U.S. presidential  चुनाव in जिससे an अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी थी निर्वाचित , having भी महरूम the पहला in जिससे an अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी जीती the नामांकन  of either major party .
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. history that both major  पार्टी उम्मीदवार यहूद बैठे u.s . सीनेटरों , तभी the तीसरा समय ( बाद 1920 और 1960 ) कि कोई बैठे u.s . सीनेटर थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष , और तभी the दूसरी समय कि  the winning President and Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S . Senators .
This was also the  पहला चुनाव चूंकि 1952 in जिससे neither of the प्रमुख पार्टियों  ' nominees was the incumbent President or Vice President .
The Sovereign Prince or Princess of Monaco is  the reigning monarch और सिर of राज्य of the principality of  Monaco .
All princes or princesses have officially  लिया the नाम of the हाउस of grimaldi , लकिन have belonged to विभिन्न अन्य घरों ( goyon de matignon  , Polignac ) in male line .
The  reigning प्रिंस is अल्बर्ट  II .
Visualization of  fragmentation और तब of defragmentation
In the maintenance of file systems , defragmentation  is a प्रक्रम कि reduces the राशि of fragmentation  .
It does this by physically organizing the contents of the mass  भंडार यंत्र प्रयुक्त to स्टोर फाइलें into the smallest क्रमांक of संलग्न  regions ( fragments ) .
It also attempts to create larger regions of free space using  compaction to impede the वापसी of fragmentation .
Some defragmentation utilities try  to रखना छोटी फाइलें भीतर a सिंगल निर्देशिका साथ , as वे हैं प्रायः  accessed in sequence .
defragmentation is लाभदायक और प्रासंगिक to संचिका प्रणालियों on electromechanical  disk drives .
The movement of the hard drive 's read/write heads over different areas of the disk when accessing  fragmented फाइलें is धीमा , compared to accessing the संपूर्ण सामग्री of a non-fragmented संचिका sequentially बगैर चलती  the read/write heads to seek other fragments .
a service-level अनुबंध ( sla ) is a भाग of a सेवा  contract where a service is formally defined .
In practice , the term SLA is sometimes used to refer to the  contracted डिलीवरी समय ( of the सेवा or प्रदर्शन ) .
As an example , internet service providers  होगा commonly शामिल सेवा स्तर समझौतों भीतर the शर्तें of उनके अनुबंध साथ ग्राहक to define the स्तर ( s  ) of service being sold in plain language terms .
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in terms of mean  समय between असफलताओं ( mtbf ) , औसत समय to मरम्मत or औसत समय to रिकवरी ( mttr ) ;  various data rates ; throughput ; jitter ; or similar measurable details .
Union  स्टेशन is a पूर्व खरीदारी मॉल in संघ नगर , जॉर्जिया , in दक्षिणपश्चिम  metro Atlanta adjacent to Interstate 85 .
After new ownership  और renovations in 2006 , the नाम थी बदला इससे शैनन southpark  Mall in 2007 to Union Station Mall .
A previous  नवीकरण थी किया in the लेट  1990s .
the मॉल रै महरूम बंद चूंकि  November 2010 .
This map shows the contiguous  संयुक्त राज्य और , in insets at the निम्नतर बाएँ , the दो  states that are not contiguous .
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the continent  of उत्तर अमेरिका कि हैं दक्षिण of कनाडा और उत्तर of मैक्सिको , प्लस the ज़िला  of Columbia .
The term  excludes the राज्य of अलास्का और हवाई , और सब off-shore u.S. territories  and possessions , such as Puerto Rico .
साथ , the 48 संलग्न राज्य और d.C. occupy a संयुक्त क्षेत्रफल of , जिससे  is 1.58 % of the total surface area of the Earth .
Of  इस , is जमीन , composing 83.65 % of  U.S. land area .
Officially , is water area ,  composing 62.66 % of the स्वदेश 's जल क्षेत्रफल  .
The 2010 census population was 306,675,006 , composing 99.33 % of the nation 's  जनसांख्यिकी , और a घनत्व of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ) , compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2  ) for the nation as a whole .
`` Why ''  is the शीर्षक of a सोंग  recorded by American country band Rascal Flatts .
It is  the तीसरा सिंगल इससे उनके छठे स्टुडियो  album , Unstoppable .
It was released to radio stations  on सितंबर 29 , 2009 और debuted at # 44 on the u.s . बिलबोर्ड us बिलबोर्ड hot देश  Songs chart for the week of October 10 , 2009 .
It was  लिखा by रोब mathes और एलन  Shamblin .
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness , medical need and efficiency of health care services procedures and  सुविधाएं according to स्थापित मापदण्ड or दिशानिर्देश और अंतर्गत the प्रावधानों of an लागू  health benefits plan .
Typically  it शामिल नई क्रियाएँ or निर्णय आधारित  upon the analysis of a case .
Utilization management describes  proactive प्रक्रियाओं , सहित निर्वहन नियोजन , संयुक्त नियोजन , pre-certification  and clinical case appeals .
It also covers proactive processes , such as concurrent  नैदानिक समीक्षाएँ और पीर समीक्षाएँ , as खूब as appeals introduced by the प्रदाता  , payer or patient .
As  pre-certification और संयुक्त पुनर्विलोकन of मामले grew , utilization  management spun out of utilization review .
While not synonymous , health care  पेशेवर tend to उपयोग the शर्तें as interchangeable  .
The difference is utilization management is and intends to  मैनेज स्वास्थ्य परवाह मामले efficiently और लागत effectively पहले और दौरान  health care administration .
Utilization review is more considering  whether स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी appropriately लागू बाद it थी  administered .
There are four  मौलिक तकनीकों in utilization management:
माँग प्रबन्धन
utilization  Review
मामला प्रबन्धन
बीमारी प्रबन्धन
The Outsiders  is a coming-of-age अनोखा by S. E. hinton  , first published in 1967 by Viking Press .
Hinton was 15 when she started writing the novel  , लकिन किया सबसे of the कार्य जब वो थी सोलह  and a junior in high school .
Hinton was 18 when the  किताब थी प्रकाशित  .
The book follows two rival groups , the Greasers and the Socs (  सुनाया by the लेखक as , छोटी लिये socials ) , जो हैं विभाजित  by their socioeconomic status .
The  किताब takes प्लेस in तुलसा , ओक्लाहोमा , in  1965 , but it is never stated in the book .
A film adaptation was produced in 1983  , और a little-known short-lived टेलीविज़न श्रेणी appeared in 1990 , picking  up where the movie left off .
The United States  हाउस of प्रतिनिधि is एक of the दो घरों of the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस  ( a bicameral legislature ) .
It is frequently  referred to as the हाउस  .
The  अन्य हाउस is the  Senate .
The  संयोजन और शक्तियां of the हाउस हैं स्थापित in आलेख  One of the United States Constitution .
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects  the संपूर्ण देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट और further सहमत to by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले बनने विधि ( जबतक दोनो the हाउस और  Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills , to  impeach officials , और to elect the u.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला वहीँ is no बहुमत in the चुनावी कॉलेज  .
प्रत्येक u.S. राज्य is represented in the हाउस in proportion to इसके जनसांख्यिकी लकिन is  entitled to at least one representative .
The most populous state ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , फिलहाल रै 53 प्रतिनिधि  .
The total  क्रमांक of मतदान प्रतिनिधि is फिक्स्ड by विधि  at 435 .
Each representative  serves लिये a two-year पद  .
The Speaker of the  संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि , जो presides over the कक्ष , is निर्वाचित by the सदस्यों of the हाउस , और is इसलिए traditionally the नेता of the हाउस  Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The House meets in the south  wing of the संयुक्त राज्य कैपिटल  .
A  सप्लाई कड़ी is दरअसल a जटिल और डायनेमिक सप्लाई और माँग  network .
( cf .  wieland/wallenburg  , 2011 )
A supply chain is a  प्रणाली of संगठन , लोगों , क्रियाएँ , सूचना , और संसाधन शामिल in चलती a उत्पाद  or service from supplier to customer .
Supply  कड़ी क्रियाएँ रूपांतरण प्राकृतिक संसाधन , कच्चा सामग्री , और components  into a finished product that is delivered to the end customer .
in sophisticated सप्लाई कड़ी प्रणालियों , प्रयुक्त उत्पाद may  re-enter the supply chain at any point where residual value is recyclable .
Supply  जंजीरों कड़ी मान जंजीरों  .
`` Purple Haze '' is  a सोंग लिखा और अंकित by जिमि हेंड्रिक्स in 1967 , released as the दूसरी सिंगल by the जिमि हेंड्रिक्स  Experience in both the United Kingdom and the United States .
It  बाद appeared on the अमरीकी संस्करण of the बैंड  's 1967 album Are You Experienced .
`` Purple Haze  '' रै become एक of the `` archetypical साइकेडेलिक  drug songs of the sixties '' .
`` Purple Haze 's ''  गिटार virtuosic तकनीकों होता be emulated by अनेक  metal guitarists .
A close up  चित्र of a गैंडा स्किन  .
Skin is the soft  बाहरी covering of vertebrates  .
Other animal coverings  ऐसे as the सन्धिपाद बहि have अलग developmental उत्पत्ति , ढांचा  and chemical composition .
The adjective  cutaneous अर्थात् `` of the स्किन '' ( इससे लैटिन  cutis , skin ) .
In mammals , the skin is the largest organ  of the integumentary प्रणाली बना up of अनेक परतों of ectodermal ऊतक , और गार्ड the underlying  muscles , bones , ligaments and internal organs .
Skin of a different nature exists  in amphibians , सरीसृपों , और पक्षियों  .
All mammals have  कुछ बाल on उनके स्किन , भी समुद्री स्तनधारियों  which appear to be hairless .
The skin  अंतरफलक साथ the पर्यावरण और is the पहला लकीर of  defense from external factors .
For example , the skin plays a key role  in protecting the देह विरूद्ध pathogens और excessive  water loss .
Its other functions are  इन्सुलेशन , तापमान विनियमन , सनसनी , और the उत्पादन  of vitamin D folates .
Severely damaged skin  may चंगा by forming scar ऊतक  .
This is  sometimes discoloured और depigmented  .
The thickness  of स्किन भी varies इससे स्थान to स्थान on an  organism .
In humans for example , the skin located under the eyes and around the eyelids is the  thinnest स्किन in the देह at 0.5 mm मोटा , और is एक of the पहला क्षेत्रों to दिखाएँ लक्षण of वृद्धावस्था ऐसे  as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles .
The skin on the palms and  the सोल्स of the फीट is 4 mm मोटा और the thickest स्किन  in the body .
फर is घना बाल  .
Primarily , fur augments the  इन्सुलेशन the स्किन provides लकिन can भी serve as a द्वितीयक यौन characteristic  or as camouflage .
On some animals  , the स्किन is बहुत मुश्किल और मोटा , और  can be processed to create leather .
Reptiles and fish have hard protective scales on their skin  लिये सुरक्षा , और पक्षियों have मुश्किल feathers , सब बना of मुश्किल β- keratins  .
Amphibian skin is not a strong  अवरोध to ड्योढ़ी of रसायन और is प्रायः विषय to परासरण और diffusive  forces .
For example , a frog  बैठे in an anesthetic समाधान होता be sedated जल्दी , as the रासायनिक diffuses  through its skin .
थामस स्कॉट
The Rev . Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is  प्रधानतया ज्ञात लिये उसके best-selling कार्य a commentary on the पूरे बाइबल और the फ़ोर्स of सच्चाई  , and as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society .
डेनियल radcliffe , जो portrays हैरी कुम्हार , रै महरूम the  icon of the film series since the release of the first film in 2001 .
Some of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom and Ireland  have voiced or portrayed वर्ण appearing in the हैरी कुम्हार फिल्मी श्रेणी आधारित on the किताब श्रेणी by J. K. रोलिंग  .
Daniel Radcliffe ,  रुपर्ट grint और एम्मा वाटसन have निभाई हैरी कुम्हार , रॉन वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी  Granger in all the films .
जब वे यहूद डाल तभी  Radcliffe had previously acted in a film .
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham  कार्टर , जिम broadbent , जॉन cleese , रोबी coltrane , warwick डेविस , ralph fiennes , माइकल gambon , ब्रेंडन gleeson , रिचर्ड ग्रीफिथ , रिचर्ड हैरिस , जॉन ठेस , जेसन isaacs , miriam margolyes , हेलेन mccrory , गेरी oldman , एलन rickman ,  Fiona Shaw , Maggie Smith , Timothy Spall , Imelda Staunton , David Thewlis , Emma Thompson , and Julie Walters , among others .
तेरह अभिनेताओं have appeared as the वही अक्षर in सब  eight films of the franchise .
Some  well-known अंग्रेजों अभिनेताओं जो have नहीं appeared in the  series , are asked in jest why they have not been cast .
When David Yates was directing the fifth film , Bill Nighy , who had previously collaborated with Yates on three of his television projects  , कहा कि he joked साथ येट्स कि संभवतः अभी he होता n't be the तभी कर्ता in इंग्लैण्ड जो था n't महरूम in हैरी  Potter .
`` But nobody  पुकारा '' , nighy added .
But in 2009  , येट्स डाल nighy as मंत्री of जादू rufus scrimgeour  in Deathly Hallows .
Nighy said  , `` i am no longer the तभी अंग्रेज़ी कर्ता  not to be in Harry Potter and I am very pleased . ''
Jude Law has quipped  , `` nobody 's पूछा me  .
I was  a बिट too बूढ़ा लिये हैरी ''  .
When a reporter compared potions professor Horace Slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the series ' connection to `` every  notable अंग्रेजों कर्ता , '' जिम broadbent , जो plays slughorn कहा , `` खूब , नहीं प्रत्येक कर्ता  gets invited .
I know  कुछ जो हैं स्टिल  waiting . ''
With  the एक्सेप्शन of क्रिस कोलंबस , प्रत्येक निदेशक रै था a कैमियो रूप in उसके संबंधित फिल्मी : अलफोंसो cuarón appears as a जादूगर पकड़कर a मोमबत्ती दौरान a झाँकी at the तीन broomsticks in कैदी of azkaban ; माइक newell is सुना briefly  as the radio presenter in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix .
Producer David Heyman also makes  a कैमियो रूप as a जादूगर प्रदर्शित भीतर a जादुई  moving portrait in the third film , Prisoner of Azkaban .
J. K. Rowling gave a speech during the world premiere  of the फाइनल फिल्मी in the series— हैरी कुम्हार और the deathly hallows भाग 2 —on 7 जुलाई 2011  in London , England .
She announced that she could never have dreamt of  the प्रतिभाशाली अभिनेताओं और अभिनेत्रियों जो have appeared in सब  the Harry Potter movies .
Rowling also announced that there are seven Harry Potter film series cast members , who she  refers to as `` the बिग सात '' , वे हैं डेनियल radcliffe , रुपर्ट grint , एम्मा वाटसन , tom felton , मैथ्यू  Lewis , Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright .
The list below is sorted by film and character ,  as कुछ वर्ण have महरूम portrayed by अनेक अभिनेताओं .
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the  कर्ता or अभिनेत्री lent तभी उसके or उसके आवाज़ लिये उसके  or her film character
( y ) indicates the actor or actress  portrayed the भूमिका in a फ्लैशबैक झाँकी or जब the अक्षर थी  young .
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did not  appear in कोई नई फुटेज लिये the फिल्मी ; फुटेज इससे an पहले फिल्मी  or films was used .
A light grey cell (  ऐसे as the एक in the `` दान burbage '' पंक्ति in the `` पारस  's Stone '' column ) indicates the character was not in the film adaptation .
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles ( accepted by  सदस्यों as 'spiritual सिद्धान्त , ' आधारित on the स्वीकृत साहित्य ) outlining a कोर्स of कार्रवाई लिये रिकवरी  from , compulsion , or other behavioral problems .
Originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a method of recovery from alcoholism , the Twelve Steps were  पहला प्रकाशित in the किताब alcoholics बेनाम : the स्टोरी of कैसा अधिक than एक सौ मेन have बरामद  from Alcoholism in 1939 .
The method was then adapted  और became the न्यास of अन्य twelve-step कार्यक्रम  .
As summarized by  the अमरीकी मनोवैज्ञानिक संघ  , the process involves the following:
admitting that  एक can नहीं कंट्रोल एक 's व्यसन  or compulsion ;
recognizing a उच्चतर शक्ति कि can दे शक्ति  ;
examining  पास्ट त्रुटियाँ साथ the सहायता of a प्रायोजक (  experienced member ) ;
बनाना amends लिये ये  errors ;
सीखना to सजीव a नई जीवन साथ a नई कोड  of behavior ;
helping  अन्य जो suffer इससे the वही  addictions or compulsions .
Witness impeachment  , in the विधि of प्रमाण of the संयुक्त राज्य , is the प्रक्रम of कॉलिंग into सवाल the विश्वसनीयता of  an individual who is testifying in a trial .
the संघीय नियम of प्रमाण contain the नियम शासी  impeachment in federal courts .
Party leaders and whips of the United  राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि हैं निर्वाचित by उनके संबंधित पार्टियों in a closed-door caucus by रहस्य बैलट और  are also known as floor leaders .
The U.S. House of Representatives does not officially use the  पद `` अल्पसंख्यक नेता '' हालांकि the मीडिया अक्सर  do .
The House instead uses the terms `` Republican  नेता '' or `` लोकतांत्रिक नेता '' depending on जिससे  party holds a minority of seats .
The current House Majority Leader  is रिपब्लिकन eric cantor , जबकि the वर्तमान हाउस अल्पसंख्यक नेता  is Democrat Nancy Pelosi .
The current House Majority  चाबुक is रिपब्लिकन केविन मैकार्थी , जबकि the वर्तमान हाउस अल्पसंख्यक चाबुक  is Democrat Steny Hoyer .
Following the outbreak of World War I in 1914 , the German Army opened the Western Front by first invading Luxembourg and Belgium , then gaining military control  of महत्वपूर्ण औद्योगिक regions in फ़्रांस  .
The tide of  the अग्रिम थी dramatically turned साथ the बैटल  of the Marne .
Following the race to the sea , both sides dug in  साथ a meandering लकीर of fortified trenches , stretching इससे the उत्तर समुद्र to the स्विस  frontier with France .
This line remained  essentially अपरिवर्तित लिये सबसे of the  war .
Between 1915 and 1917  वहीँ यहूद अनेक प्रमुख offensives साथ  this front .
The attacks employed massive artillery  bombardments और massed infantry अग्रिम .
However , a combination of  entrenchments , यंत्र गन nests , कंटीले तार , और तोपखाने repeatedly inflicted कठोर हताहत  on the attackers and counterattacking defenders .
As a result ,  no significant अग्रिम यहूद बना  .
Among the most costly of these offensives  यहूद the बैटल of verdun साथ a संयुक्त [ अनुमानित ] 700,000 मुर्दे , the बैटल of the  Somme with more than [ an estimated ] million casualties , and the Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties .
In an effort to break the  deadlock , इस सामने देखी the परिचय of नई सैन्य प्रौद्योगिकी , सहित ज़हर  gas , aircraft and tanks .
But it was only after the adoption of  improved tactics कि कुछ उपाधि of गतिशीलता थी लौटी  .
The German Spring  अप्रिय of 1918 थी बना संभावित by the सन्धि of brest-litovsk  that marked the end of the conflict on the Eastern Front .
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics ,  the जर्मनी सेना उन्नत nearly to the वेस्ट , जिससे चिह्नित the deepest अग्रिम by either पक्ष चूंकि 1914 और बहुत nearly succeeded in forcing  a breakthrough .
In spite of the generally stagnant  प्रकृति of इस सामने , इस थिएटर होता prove निर्णायक  .
The  inexorable अग्रिम of the अलाइड सेना दौरान the दूसरी  half of 1918 persuaded the German commanders that defeat was inevitable , and the government was forced to sue for conditions of an armistice .
The terms of peace were  सहमत upon साथ the हस्ताक्षर of the सन्धि of versailles  in 1919 .
The following is a  सूची of पुनरावर्ती और नाबालिग वर्ण in the डिज़्नी चैनल असली श्रेणी  The Suite Life of Zack & Cody .
These characters were regularly rotated ,  प्रायः disappearing लिये long अवधि दौरान the श्रेणी .
the following सूची of वर्ण रै महरूम  sorted alphabetically , by first name .
Some of the characters had no last name and most were commonly  referred to by उनके पहला नाम so इस appeared to be the सबसे लॉजिकल विधि  .
In the case of Chef Paolo , who had no known  पहला नाम , वे have महरूम  listed by title .
The First Lady of the  संयुक्त राज्य ( flotus ) is the होस्टेस  of the White House .
Because this position is  traditionally भर by the बीवी of the अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , the शीर्षक is सबसे  often applied to the wife of a sitting president .
The current  पहला महिला is मिशेल ओबामा  .
After her  husband बराक ओबामा थी re-elected on नवम्बर 6 , 2012 , वो is  scheduled to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Septic shock is a medical condition as a result of severe infection  और सेप्सिस , हालांकि the microbe may be प्रणालीगत or स्थानीयकृत to a particular  site .
It can cause multiple organ  dysfunction सिंड्रोम ( formerly ज्ञात as अनेक अंग विफलता ) और  death .
Its most  आम पीड़ितों हैं children , immunocompromised individuals , और the बुजुर्ग , as उनके प्रतिरक्षा  systems can not deal with the infection as effectively as those of healthy adults .
Frequently , patients suffering from septic  शॉक हैं cared लिये in intensive परवाह इकाई  .
The mortality rate  इससे सेप्टिक शॉक is लगभग  25–50 % .
Kevin Brereton ( born February 20 , 1972 ) , better known by his stage name k-os ( ; ``  अराजकता '' ) , is a कनाडाई rapper , सिंगर , songwriter और  record producer .
His given  नाम may भी be cited as kheaven  , a spelling he later adopted .
The alias `` k-os '' , spelled with a lower case `` k '' , was intended to be  कम आक्रामक than the pseudonyms of अन्य rappers जिनकी names यहूद सब अपर मामला , ऐसे as krs-one  .
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self , '' although in a later interview he said that it originally stood for  `` केविन 's असली ध्वनि . '' k-os ' म्यूज़िक incorporates a चौड़ी किस्में of म्यूज़िक जाति , सहित रैप , दुर्गंध , चट्टान , और रेगी  .
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at times expressing  आलोचना of मुख्यधारा हिप हॉप संस्कृति 's obsession साथ धन , कीर्ति और glorification  of violence .
A musician as well as a  निर्माता , k-os रै लिखा और उत्पादित nearly  every part of all four of his albums .
k-os प्रायः performs साथ a सजीव बैंड , कुछ  that is uncommon in the hip hop genre .
He  sometimes plays गिटार और कुंजीपटल दोनो दौरान सजीव प्रदर्शन  and in the studio .
k-os received his first  musical एक्सपोज़र साथ the सिंगल `` musical essence '' , released  in 1993 .
After the  रिलीज of उसके दूसरी सिंगल `` वृद्धि जैसे the सूर्य '' in 1996 , he withdrew इससे the उद्योग क्युकी he थी असंतुष्ट  with his musical style .
he reappeared briefly in 1999 और released  his debut album Exit in 2002 .
The album  प्राप्त धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ लकिन बेची अपेक्षाकृत  few copies .
He  released उसके दूसरी एल्बम आनन्द विद्रोह in 2004 , जिससे  received platinum status in Canada .
A third  एल्बम , , थी released in 2006 और  also went platinum .
His fourth  एल्बम , यस  !
,  थी released in  2009 .
His  पांचवां एल्बम ब्लैक on सुनहरे  was released in 2013 .
The official  2007 संस्करण of the ucc  .
भी the गोपनीय अशिष्ट मसौदा of the ucc यहूद saved और  published as a 10-volume set .
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ) , first published in 1952 , is  एक of a क्रमांक of वर्दी अधिनियमों कि have महरूम promulgated in संयोजन साथ प्रयत्न to harmonize the विधि of बिक्री और अन्य वाणिज्यिक ट्रांजेक्शन  in all 50 states within the United States of America .
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent  of चढ़ाई रूट साथ एक or अधिक stops at a belay स्टेशन  .
Each section of actual  चढ़ाई between stops at the belay स्टेशन is  called a pitch .
The leader ascends the pitch  , रखकर गियर और stopping to लंगर themselves to the belay स्टेशन .
The  कारण लिये the stops can be संकल्पित by  choice , convention or necessity .
लिये example:
The rope is too short to  do the संपूर्ण रूट in एक पिच ( necessity  ) .
the नेता रै चलाएं आउट of सुरक्षात्मक  gear ( necessity ) .
There is a convenient protectable ledge , or fixed bolts placed by previous  चढना , at the स्थान लिये a belay स्टेशन ( सम्मेलन  ) .
The leader chooses to rest or  एक्सचेंज लीड पहले the अगला खण्ड of the चढ़ाई ( चुनाव  ) .
The general purpose  of ये stops is to allow the दूसरी to ascend to the पाइंट of the सीसे climber जबकि  collecting the protective gear from the route in the course of the lead climber 's ascent .
At the belay station , the protective gear is collected ,  संभवतः exchanged to a नई नेता , और the नेता of the अगला पिच ascends the  route .
A diagram showing an I Formation on  ठोकर और a 4-3 गठन on रक्षा
In American football , each team has  ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the फ़ील्ड at एक समय .
The specific role that a  खिलाड़ी takes on the फ़ील्ड is पुकारा उनके स्थिति  .
Under the  आधुनिक नियम of अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल , टीमों हैं अनुमत असीमित subsititutions , कि  is teams may change any number of players after any play .
This has resulted in the development of three ``  platoons '' of खिलाड़ी , the ठोकर ( the टोली साथ the बॉल , जो is trying to स्कोर ) , the रक्षा ( the टोली trying to prevent the अन्य  team from scoring , and to take the ball from them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons , various  विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ मौजूद depending on कया the खिलाड़ी 's  main job is .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted  into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii of the व्यापक ड्रग गाली रोकथाम  and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which  the manufacture , importation , कब्ज़ा , उपयोग और वितरण of निश्चित substances is regulated .
The Act also served as the national  implementing विधान लिये the सिंगल सम्मेलन  on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created five  schedules ( classifications ) , साथ varying योग्यता लिये a पदार्थ  to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug  प्रशासन , determine जिससे substances हैं added to or removed इससे the विभिन्न schedules , हालांकि the statute passed by कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग , और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape  Prevention Act of 2000 , which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a New Jersey Transit  park-and-ride स्टेशन in वेन , नई जर्सी साथ the montclair-boonton लकीर कि provides बस सेवा to नई यॉर्क नगर और विभिन्न अन्य अंक in the क्षेत्रफल as खूब as montclair-boonton लकीर ट्रैन सेवा  to New York , Hoboken , and intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University .
It is located off of the southbound  गलियों of नई जर्सी रूट 23 on वेस्ट बेल्ट सड़क , निकट the इंटरचेंज जहाँ रूट 23 , अंतरराज्यीय 80 , और  U.S. Route 46 meet , across from the Willowbrook Mall .
the स्टेशन खोली in जनवरी 2008 और  has 1,000 parking spaces .
New  जर्सी पारगमन intends लिये इस संयुक्त रेल और बस स्टेशन to become an `` interceptor स्टेशन , '' कि होगा सहायता relieve the habitual  congestion at the West Belt Road Interchange , where the three major highways meet .
In addition , the construction of the station was meant to also  आसानी the जमघट at कया थी तब रूट 23 पार्क & सवारी , a बस डिपो on रूट 23 उत्तर कि रै चूंकि महरूम renamed माँ 's पार्क & सवारी , और the willowbrook  Mall Park & Ride ; the now-Mother 's site had limited parking while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook .
The Wayne Township bus garage is  स्तिथ on the विपरीत पक्ष of रूट  23 .
There has been a proposal to build  a पार्किंग डेक साथ another हजार धब्बे और develop the जमीन at the  station .
In addition to  montclair-boonton रेल , the पारगमन बीच is परोसा by the following नई  Jersey Transit bus lines:
75  to न्यूर्क penn स्टेशन  and Butler
194 to  बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल  and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to  बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार बस टर्मिनल और विलियम  Paterson University
324  to बंदरगाहों प्राधिकार और वेन  Route 23
748 to  willowbrook मॉल और paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly called the at symbol , ampersat  , apetail or वाणिज्यिक at in english—and कम commonly a चौड़ी दायरा of  other terms .
The fact that there is no single word in English for the symbol has prompted  कुछ लेखक to उपयोग the फ्रेंच arobase or स्पेनी और पुर्तगाली arroba—or to सिक्का नई शब्द ऐसे as asperand  , ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency .
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate of '' ( e.g . 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14  ) , it थी नहीं शामिल on the कुंजीपटल of the earliest commercially कामयाब typewriters , लकिन थी on at तनिक एक 1889 मॉडल और the बहुत कामयाब underwood मॉडल इससे the `` underwood no . 5 '' in 1900  onward .
It is now universally  शामिल on कंप्यूटर keyboards  .
In recent years , its meaning has grown to include the sense of being `` located at , '' `` and  , '' or `` निर्देशित at '' , विशेषकर in ईमेल पता और सोशल मीडिया , विशेषकर  Twitter .
the चिह्नित is एनकोडेड  at .
The Catcher  in the rye is a 1951 अनोखा by  J. D. Salinger .
Originally  प्रकाशित लिये वयस्कों , it रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय साथ adolescent  readers for its themes of teenage angst and alienation .
It  रै महरूम अनूदित into लगभग सब of the संसार  's major languages .
Around 250,000 copies are sold  प्रत्येक साल साथ कुल बिक्री of अधिक than 65 लाख किताबे  .
The novel 's  समर्थक और antihero , होल्डन caulfield ,  has become an icon for teenage rebellion .
The novel was included on Times 2005  सूची of the 100 बेहतरीन english-language novels लिखा चूंकि 1923 , और it थी नामित by आधुनिक  Library and its readers as one of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century .
It has been  अक्सर challenged in the संयुक्त राज्य और अन्य देशों लिये इसके  liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality .
It also deals with  जटिल मुद्दे of पहचान , belonging , कनेक्शन , और alienation  .
Skeletal  मांसपेशियां होमो sapiens
This is a  तालिका of मांसपेशियां of the इंसान  anatomy .
There are  लगभग 642 skeletal मांसपेशियां भीतर the ठेठ इंसान , और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of  identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult to  define क्युकी अलग स्त्रोत समूह मांसपेशियां differently , e.g . regarding कया is पारिभाषित as अलग  parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
उदाहरण दायरा इससे 640  to 850 .
The  मांसपेशियां of the इंसान देह can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating  to the head and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
the कार्रवाई refers to the कार्रवाई of प्रत्येक  muscle from the standard anatomical position .
In  अन्य स्थितियाँ , अन्य क्रियाएँ  may be performed .
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American  वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by जोनाथन मरे लिये the  Oxygen television station .
The show centers on seven feisty and  शरारती महिलाओं साथ अलग पृष्ठभूमि और personalities , जो have a क्रमांक of मनोवैज्ञानिक  and behavioral problems .
They are introduced to  the दिखाएँ बंद उनके घातक बर्ताव और accomplish विशिष्ट  goals .
The cast ,  deemed `` ख़राब लड़कियों '' , आनंद a luxurious जीवनशैली in a ठीक  mansion for three months , during which they must obey specified rules .
Their lives  अंदर – और बाहर – of the हाउस हैं chronicled और अंकित  by the production team .
The Bad  लड़कियों क्लबों is ब्रॉडकास्ट in पाँच देशों ( संयुक्त  States , Netherlands , Australia , Hungary , and Sweden ) .
It has received negative  समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , जो मानना the दिखाएँ promotes हिंसा by adolescent  viewers .
Furthermore , several cast members made  विवादास्पद remarks जिससे outraged अनेक दर्शक  .
The format of the  दिखाएँ रै बदला इससे जल्दी सीज़न  .
If a  `` ख़राब लड़की '' ब्रेक a नियम , वो is evicted इससे the दिखाएँ और , if it is जल्दी  in the season , replaced by a new `` bad girl '' .
There have been nine complete seasons of The Bad  लड़कियों क्लबों , साथ the दसवाँ ऋतु फिलहाल  airing .
The fourth season had the highest ratings  in the दिखाएँ 's इतिहास , बनने इसके `` भेदन  season '' .
There  have महरूम तीन spin-offs of the ख़राब  Girls Club .
One of them , Love Games :  ख़राब लड़कियों need प्रेम too , जहाँ पास्ट डाल सदस्यों तलाश सच्चा प्रेम , रै gained ऊँची दरजा  .
Oxygen has also released a mobile  खेल , कॉमिक स्ट्रिप और merchandise to  promote the show .
Of the 92 contestants ,  केरी harvick ( of ऋतु एक ) थी a कामयाब देश सिंगर  before the show .
Tanisha Thomas  ( of ऋतु दो ) बाद hosted ऑक्सीजन  's OxygenLive !
and the subsequent  सीज़न of प्रेम खेल : ख़राब लड़कियों need  Love Too .
Thomas , who has been dubbed the `` godmother '' to all  प्रतियोगी , रै उसके अपना टेलीविज़न वृत्तचित्र हकदार  Tanisha Gets Married .
As of Season  8 वो 's महरूम the मेजबान of the पुनर्मिलन  specials .
The Iowa Senate is the  अपर हाउस of the आयोवा सामान्य  Assembly .
There are 50 seats in  the आयोवा सीनेट , representing 50 single-member जिले  across the state with populations of approximately 60,927 per constituency , .
Each Senate district is  रचित of दो हाउस जिले  .
The Senate meets at the  आयोवा राज्य कैपिटल in देस moines  .
Unlike the lower house , the Iowa House of Representatives , Senators serve  four-year शर्तें , साथ हाफ of the सीनेट लड़खड़ाते लिये re-election प्रत्येक दो सालो  .
वहीँ हैं no पद हद लिये  the Senate .
mechanical मरम्मत
मेंटेनेंस , मरम्मत , और परिचालन ( mro ) or मेंटेनेंस , मरम्मत , और overhaul involves फिक्सिंग कोई sort of mechanical , plumbing or विद्युत यंत्र  should it become out of order or broken ( known as repair , unscheduled or casualty maintenance ) .
It also includes performing routine  क्रियाएँ जिससे रखना the यंत्र in working अनुक्रम ( ज्ञात as अनुसूचित मेंटेनेंस ) or prevent ट्रबल इससे arising  ( preventive maintenance ) .
MRO may be defined as , `` All actions which have the objective  of retaining or restoring an मद in or to a राज्य in जिससे it can perform इसके जरूरी  function .
The actions include the  संयोजन of सब तकनीकी और सम्बन्धित प्रशासनिक , managerial ,  and supervision actions . ''
MRO operations can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the customer , i.e . a service is being  offered , or whether the उत्पाद is खरीदा by the reprocessing संगठन और बेची to कोई ग्राहक wishing to मेक the खरीदें ( guadette  , 2002 ) .
In  the पूर्व मामला it may be a backshop आपरेशन  within a larger organisation or smaller operation .
The former of these represents a  बंद लूप सप्लाई कड़ी और प्रायः रै the पैमाना of मेंटेनेंस  , repair or of the product .
The latter  of the categorisations is an खोलें लूप सप्लाई कड़ी और is typified  by refurbishment and remanufacture .
The main characteristic of the closed loop system is  कि the माँग लिये a उत्पाद is matched साथ the सप्लाई  of a used product .
Neglecting asset write-offs and  असाधारण क्रियाएँ the कुल जनसांख्यिकी of the उत्पाद between the ग्राहक और the सेवा प्रदाता  remains constant .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) , is the elder  बेटे of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स , और डायना , राजकुमारी of वेल्स , और third-eldest पोता of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ ii और प्रिंस फिलिप , ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग  .
He is second in the line of succession , behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , Jamaica ,  बारबाडोस , the बहामा , हरा , पापुआ नई गिनी , the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स , तुवालू , संत लूसिया , संत विंसेंट और the grenadines , बेलीज़ , अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा  , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was  शिक्षित at चार स्कूलों in the संयुक्त किंगडम और प्राप्त a उपाधि  from the University of St Andrews .
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile ,  बेलीज़ , तंजानिया , और कीनिया जहाँ he रै जिया और holidayed अनेक टाइम्स  .
प्रिंस विलियम रै भी लिया kiswahili अध्ययन  at universities in Kenya and Tanzania .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and  रॉयल्स रेजीमेंट of the household प्यादे —serving साथ उसके bhai प्रिंस हैरी —and , दो सालो बाद , अर्जित उसके विंग्स by completing  pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred  to the royal एयर फ़ोर्स , थी प्रचारित to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent हेलीकाप्टर उड़ती प्रशिक्षण in अनुक्रम  to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force .
In 2010 , he completed his general and  special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर प्रशिक्षण और गई on to raf घाटी on no . 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on फलक  a Sea King search and rescue helicopter .
Prince  विलियम शादीशुदा उसके longtime गर्लफ्रेंड , कैथरीन मिडलटन  , on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey .
Hours prior to his wedding ,  प्रिंस विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज  , Earl of Strathearn , and Baron Carrickfergus .
DeAndre  cortez रास्ता ( born जुलाई 28 , 1990 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम soulja लड़के बताना 'em , or बस soulja लड़के ,  is an American rapper , record producer , actor , and entrepreneur .
in सितंबर 2007 , उसके सिंगल `` crank कि ( soulja  Boy ) `` reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 .
The single was  initially self-published on the अंतरजाल , और it बाद became a number-one  hit in the United States for seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007 .
On August 17 Way was listed at # 18 on  the फोर्ब्स सूची of hip-hop नकदी किंग्स of 2010 कमाई $ 7 लाख लिये  that year .
रास्ता रै फिलहाल released तीन स्टुडियो एल्बम और एक स्वतंत्र एल्बम : उसके डेब्यू  studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was certified platinum by the RIAA .
However , his next two albums , iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) did not match the commercial success of his debut , the latter only selling 100,000  नक़ल , despite the कामयाबी of अनेक singles आरपार दोनो एल्बम , ऐसे as `` चुंबन me thru the फोन `` और `` फेरे my swag on `` ( isouljaboytellem  ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ) .
This was  मुख्यतः due to negotiation समस्याएं साथ interscope रिकॉर्ड जिससे meant a सीमित राशि of रिकॉर्ड यहूद  made available to the public .
As of 2011 , Way has  पुष्टि he is working on उसके चौथी स्टुडियो एल्बम , हकदार यूएसए ड्रे , जिससे  will be released in 2013 .
The electron transport chain in the  सूत्रकणिका is the साईट of oxidative phosphorylation  in eukaryotes .
The NADH and succinate  उत्पन्न in the साइट्रिक एसिड साईकिल हैं oxidized , providing  energy to power ATP synthase .
Photosynthetic electron  हस्तांतरण कड़ी of the thylakoid झिल्ली  .
An electron  हस्तांतरण कड़ी ( इत्यादि ) युगल इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्रांसफ़र between an इलेक्ट्रॉन दाता  ( such as NADH ) and an electron acceptor ( such as O2 ) with the transfer of H+ ions ( protons ) across a membrane .
The  resulting electrochemical प्रोटॉन अनुपात is प्रयुक्त to generate रासायनिक उर्जा in the रूप of एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट  ( ATP ) .
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms used for extracting energy from sunlight in  photosynthesis और भी इससे रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रियाएँ , ऐसे as the ऑक्सीकरण of sugars  ( respiration ) .
In chloroplasts , light drives the conversion of water to  ऑक्सीजन और nadP+ to nadph साथ ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions आरपार  chloroplast membranes .
In mitochondria , it is the  परिवर्तन of ऑक्सीजन to जल , nadh to naD+ और succinate to fumarate कि  are required to generate the proton gradient .
Electron  हस्तांतरण जंजीरों हैं प्रमुख साइट of असामयिक इलेक्ट्रॉन leakage to ऑक्सीजन , generating superoxide और potentially  resulting in increased oxidative stress .
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip , Ryzolt , Ultracet , Ultram in the  यूएसए , ralivia , zytram xl durella { cr-100/200 mg } in कनाडा or adolonta in स्पेन ) is a centrally एक्टिंग सिंथेटिक analgesic प्रयुक्त to दावत मॉडरेट  to moderately severe pain .
The drug has a wide range of applications , including treatment of  आमवातीय गठिया , बेचैन टाँगे सिंड्रोम , मोटर neurone बीमारी  and fibromyalgia .
It was launched and marketed as  tramal by the जर्मनी फार्मास्युटिकल कम्पनी  Grünenthal GmbH in 1977 .
tramadol is a कमजोर μ-opioid receptor agonist कि भी induces  serotonin release and inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine .
Tramadol is metabolized  to o-desmethyltramadol , a significantly  more potent μ-opioid agonist .
Tramadol and its major metabolite ( s ) are distinguished from other more potent  opioid agonists by सापेक्ष selectivity लिये μ-opioid receptors  .
Bernard  लॉरेंस `` बर्नी '' madoff ( ; born अप्रैल 29 , 1938 ) is an अमरीकी पूर्व stockbroker , निवेश  advisor , financier , and white collar criminal .
He is the former non-executive  अध्यक्ष of the नैस्डैक भण्डार मार्केट , और the admitted ऑपरेटर of a पेन्शन योजना  that is considered to be the largest financial fraud in U.S. history .
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm Bernard L. Madoff  निवेश प्रतिभूति llc in 1960 , और थी इसके अध्यक्ष जबतक उसके गिरफ़्तार  on December 11 , 2008 .
The firm was one of the top  मार्केट मेकर व्यवसायों on वॉल गली , जिससे bypassed `` विशेषज्ञ '' firms by सीधे निष्पादित आदेश over the काउंटर  from retail brokers .
He employed  at the कड़ उसके bhai पीटर as वरिष्ठ मैनेजिंग निदेशक और मुख्य अनुपालन  Officer ; Peter has since been sentenced to 10 years in prison .
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's rules and compliance officer and attorney , and  उसके बेटे एंड्रयू और चिह्नित ( चिह्नित वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या by फांसी exactly दो सालो बाद उसके पिता  's arrest ) .
On  दिसम्बर 10 , 2008 , madoff 's बेटे बताई अधिकारियों कि उनके पिता था confessed to  them that the asset management unit of his firm was a massive Ponzi scheme , and quoted him as describing it as `` one big lie . ''
The  following दिन , एफबीआई एजेंटों गिरफ्तार madoff और चार्ज उसे साथ  one count of securities fraud .
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had previously conducted  investigations into madoff 's कारोबार practices , लकिन किया नहीं  uncover the massive fraud .
In March 2009 , Madoff pleaded guilty to 11  संघीय felonies और admitted to turning उसके माल प्रबन्धन कारोबार into a विशाल पेन्शन योजना कि झांसे हज़ारों of निवेशकों of अरबों of डॉलर  .
Madoff said he  began the पेन्शन योजना in the जल्दी  1990s .
However , federal  जांचकर्ताओं मानना the धोखाधड़ी began as जल्दी as the 1970s , और those चार्ज साथ recovering the लापता धन मानना  the investment operation may never have been legitimate .
The amount missing from client accounts , including  fabricated gains , थी लगभग $ 65 अरब  .
The  court-appointed ट्रस्टी अनुमानित वास्तविक नुकसान to निवेशकों  of $ 18 billion .
On June 29 , 2009 , he was sentenced  to 150 सालो in थाना ,  the maximum allowed .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in  अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries , प्रशासनिक assistants , receptionists , और अन्य प्रशासनिक support पेशेवर .
In North  अमेरिका , it is मनाये on the बुधवार of the  last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ) .
In France it is celebrated on  the तीसरा गुरुवार in अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 18  in 2013 ) .
In  ऑस्ट्रेलिया it is मनाये on the  first Friday in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator or  ट्रिब्यूनल फलक , generally of a पब्लिक प्रशासनिक एजेंसी , जिससे रै शक्तियां और प्रक्रियाओं resembling those of a अदालत of विधि or न्यायधीश , और जिससे is obligated to objectively determine तथ्य और चित्रण  conclusions from them so as to provide the basis of an official action .
Such actions are able to remedy a situation or impose legal  दंड , और may affect the विधिक अधिकारों , कर्तव्य or privileges of विशिष्ट  parties .
Monument of  tycho ब्राहे और योहानेस कॅप्लर  in Prague
Tycho  ब्राहे ( 14 दिसम्बर 154624 अक्तूबर 1601 ) , born tyge ottesen ब्राहे , थी a डैनिश  nobleman known for his accurate and comprehensive astronomical and planetary observations .
He was  born in स्कैनिया , तब भाग of डेनमार्क , अभी भाग of  modern-day Sweden .
tycho थी खूब ज्ञात in उसके आजीवन as an astronomer  and alchemist .
in उसके de नोवा स्टेला ( on the नई स्टार ) of 1573 , he refuted the  Aristotelian belief in an unchanging celestial realm .
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars , '' ( stellae novae , now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572 , lacked the parallax expected  in sub-lunar phenomena , और यहूद इसलिए नहीं `` वायुमंडलीय '' tailless धूमकेतुओं as previously believed , लकिन यहूद ऊपर the माहौल और  moon .
Using similar measurements he showed  कि धूमकेतुओं यहूद भी नहीं वायुमंडलीय phenomena , as previously विचार  , and must pass through the supposedly `` immutable '' celestial spheres .
As an astronomer , Tycho worked to  combine कया he देखी as the geometrical लाभ of the copernican प्रणाली साथ the philosophical लाभ of the ptolemaic प्रणाली into  his own model of the universe , the Tychonic system .
furthermore , he थी the पिछला of the प्रमुख नग्न नजर  astronomers , working without telescopes for his observations .
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of Hven and the funding to build the Uraniborg , an early research institute , where he built large  खगोलीय यंत्र और took अनेक careful माप , और बाद stjerneborg , भूमिगत , जब he खोजा कि उसके यंत्र in the पूर्व यहूद नहीं fear  steady .
On the island ( on which he demonstrated autocratic  अक्षर और बर्ताव toward the निवासियों ) he संस्थापित manufactories ऐसे as paper-making to provide सामग्री लिये मुद्रण  his results .
After disagreements with the new Danish king Christian IV in  1597 , he थी आमंत्रित by the bohemian किंग और पावन रोमन सम्राट rudolph ii to प्राग , जहाँ  he became the official imperial astronomer .
He built the new  वेधशाला at benátky nad jizerou  .
Here , from 1600 until his death in 1601 , he was assisted by Johannes  कॅप्लर जो बाद प्रयुक्त tycho 's खगोलीय आंकड़ा to develop कॅप्लर  's laws of planetary motion .
Guro District (  guro-gu ) is a ज़िला of सियोल , दक्षिण  Korea , which was separated from Yeongdeungpo District on April 1 , 1980 .
Located in the southwestern part of the city ,  जहाँ besides yangcheon ज़िला और geumcheon ज़िला guro ज़िला रै an महत्वपूर्ण स्थिति as a हस्तांतरण कड़ी  which contains railroads , land routes from the rest of Seoul to the south of the country .
The Gyeongbu  और gyeongin रेल लाइनों कनेक्ट सियोल to बुसान और  Incheon .
In addition , Seoul  महानगर सबवे लाइनों 1 , 2 , और 7 , और प्रमुख राजमार्गों  intersect in Guro District .
The name Guro originates from  the लेजेंड कि नौ ( ) बूढ़ा मेन ( कोरियाई : ro ) enjoyed आयु  in the district .
A  डिजिटल औद्योगिक जटिल is  located in Guro District .
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex , which played a leading industrial role  मुख्यतः साथ वस्त्र निर्माण , dressmaking और अन्य labour-intensive उद्योग in 1967 , रै महरूम rapidly बदला  into an IT industrial complex .
This  जटिल निभाई a pivotal भूमिका in the आर्थिक विकास of the दक्षिण कोरियाई 's विकास era , referred to as the `` चमत्कार on the  Han River `` , and also contributed 10 percent of national export in the 1970s .
twenty-one प्रतिशत of the कुल क्षेत्रफल of guro ज़िला is a प्रतिबंधित मण्डल  to be used as a greenbelt with the only arboretum in Seoul .
The zone is changing into a lively district as large  labour-intensive कारखानों हैं चलती इससे the क्षेत्रफल और the परिषद is  developing what it terms its four zones .
An `` e-government  `` प्रणाली आधारित on इस hosted the अंतरराष्ट्रीय e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी 7–9 , 2007 , साथ the भागीदारी  of more than thirty-seven countries .
The forum was launched with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André Santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux , France ) , Kevin Foy ( Chapel Hill , US ) , Apirak Kosayothin ( Bangkok , Thailand ) , Uvais Mohamed Emthiyas ( Colombo , Sri Lanka ) , and world  विशेषज्ञ ऐसे as dr विलियम H. dutton ( निदेशक of ऑक्सफोर्ड अंतरजाल संस्थान at the विश्वविद्यालयों of ऑक्सफोर्ड , uk ) और dr ari-veiko anttiroiko ( प्राध्यापक at the विश्वविद्यालयों of tampere , फिनलैंड ) participated in the  forum .
The Guro Declaration , adopted  दौरान the फ़ोरम , aims to नियत up a पोर्टल साईट लिये e-government विकास और to स्थापित a कंक्रीट प्रोजेक्ट in अनुक्रम to सेतु the डिजिटल divide  among the world 's cities .
This practice has been recognised for  providing a नई महत्वपूर्ण कदम in the विकास of e-democracy  .
The e-participation forum was a key factor for Guro to play the leading  भूमिका in bridging the डिजिटल divide among शहरों , to provide i.t . उद्यमों स्तिथ in guro डिजिटल औद्योगिक जटिल the अवसर to लॉन्च into the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मार्केट  , to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy .
The international  e-participation फ़ोरम on फ़रवरी  7–9 , 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan , wanton , or  wuntun in ट्रांसक्रिप्शन इससे cantonese ; मंदारिन : húndùn ) is a प्रकार of पकौड़ी commonly मिला in a क्रमांक of  Chinese cuisines .
Many  लोगों यहूद शामिल in the आविष्कार  of radio as we now know it .
Several possible methods of wireless communication were  माना , सहित आगमनात्मक और capacitive प्रेरण और हस्तांतरण through the मैदान , however the विधि  used for radio today exclusively involves the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves .
After early speculation on the subject , experimental work on the connection between electricity and magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans  ईसाई ओर्स्टेड और जारी साथ the कार्य of andré-marie एम्पीयर , जोसेफ हेनरी , और माइकल  Faraday .
These investigations culminated in  the पूरा सिद्धान्त of विद्युत्चुम्बकत्व विकसित by जेम्स  Clerk Maxwell .
This theory described the  सैद्धांतिक आधार of the propagation of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  waves .
After Maxwell 's theory was published many  लोगों experimented साथ बेतार संचार , कुछ intentionally  using Maxwell 's theory some not .
It is considered likely that  the पहला जानबूझकर हस्तांतरण of a सिग्नल by अर्थात् of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक लहरें थी performed by दाउद एडवर्ड ह्यूजेस around 1880 , हालांकि इस  was considered to be induction at the time .
The first systematic and unequivocal  हस्तांतरण of em लहरें थी performed by heinrich रुडॉल्फ हर्ट्ज़ और वर्णित in papers  published in 1887 and 1890 .
Hertz famously considered  ये परिणाम as होने of छोटी व्यावहारिक मान  .
After Hertz 's work many people were involved in the development of components and  सिद्धान्त शामिल साथ the हस्तांतरण और रिसेप्शन of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  waves .
Others  , notably guglielmo मार्कोनी , यहूद चिंतित साथ व्यावहारिक सुधार और the वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग  of radio to wireless telegraphy .
Later on Reginald A. Fessenden became the  पहला to भेजें an ऑडियो सिग्नल by अर्थात् of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  waves .
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a deficiency of vitamin C , which  is जरूरी लिये the संश्लेषण of कोलेजन in इंसानो  .
the रासायनिक नाम लिये विटामिन c , एस्कॉर्बिक एसिड , is निकला इससे the लैटिन नाम of स्कर्वी , scorbutus , जिससे भी  provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of , characterized by or having to do with scurvy '' ) .
Scurvy  प्रायः presents itself initially as लक्षण of malaise और lethargy , followed by गठन of धब्बे on  the skin , spongy gums , and bleeding from the mucous membranes .
Spots are most  abundant on the जांघों और टाँगे , और a व्यक्ति साथ the ailment looks पाले  , feels depressed , and is partially immobilized .
As scurvy advances ,  वहीँ can be खोलें , suppurating wounds , घाटा of दांत , पीलिया , ज्वर  , neuropathy and death .
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors , pirates and others  सवार जहाजों at समुद्र longer than perishable फल और सब्जियां could be भंडारित ( subsisting बजाय तभी on cured और salted meats और सूखी  grains ) and by soldiers similarly deprived of these foods for extended periods .
It was described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c .  380 bc ) , और हर्बल cures लिये स्कर्वी have महरूम ज्ञात in अनेक देशी संस्कृतियों  since prehistory .
Scurvy was one of the limiting factors of marine travel , often  हत्या विशाल संख्याएँ of the यात्री और क्रू on long-distance voyages  .
This  became a significant समस्या in यूरोपीय इससे the शुरूआत of the आधुनिक era in the आयु of डिस्कवरी in the 15th  century , continuing to play a significant role through World War I in the 20th century .
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional deficiency ,  जबतक the अलगाव of विटामिन c और सीधा प्रमाण of इसके कड़ी to स्कर्वी in 1932 , numerous theories और उपचार यहूद प्रस्तावित , प्रायः on छोटी  or no experimental data .
This inconsistency is  attributed to the कमी of विटामिन c as a पृथक अवधारणा , an अक्षमता to reliably कड़ी अलग भोजन ( notably उपस्थित in  fresh citrus , watercress , and organ meat ) to scurvy .
An additional concept required to  समझे स्कर्वी थी the degradation of विटामिन c by एक्सपोज़र to एयर और तांबे और अन्य परिवर्तन मेटल लवण ऐसे as those  of iron , thus changing the links of foods to scurvy over time .
Treatment by fresh food , particularly citrus  फल , थी periodically implemented , as it था महरूम चूंकि  antiquity .
However until  the 1930s , उपचार थी असंगत , साथ अनेक अप्रभावी उपचार प्रयुक्त into  the 20th century .
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy , James Lind who first  proved it could be treated साथ citrus फल in प्रयोग he वर्णित in उसके 1753 किताब , a treatise of the स्कर्वी  , though his advice was not implemented by the Royal Navy for several decades .
In infants , scurvy is sometimes referred  to as barlow 's बीमारी , नामित बाद सर थामस barlow , a अंग्रेजों चिकित्सक जो वर्णित  it .
However , Barlow 's disease  may भी refer to mitral वाल्व prolapse  .
अन्य eponyms लिये स्कर्वी शामिल moeller 's  disease and Cheadle 's disease .
Scurvy does not occur in most animals  क्युकी वे can synthesize उनके अपना विटामिन  C .
However , humans and other higher primates ( the  simians - बंदरों और apes - और tarsiers ) , गिनी सूअर , सबसे or सब bats , और कुछ प्रजाति of पक्षियों और मछली कमी an एंजाइम ( l-gulonolactone  oxidase ) necessary for such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet .
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues , with particularly high  एकाग्रता occurring in citrus फल ( संतरे , नींबू , limes , grapefruits ) , टमाटर  , potatoes , cabbages , and green peppers .
आयरन is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक fe  ( from ) and atomic number 26 .
It is a  मेटल in the पहला परिवर्तन  series .
It is the most common element ( by mass )  forming the ग्रह धरती as a पूरे , forming much of  Earth 's outer and inner core .
It is  the चौथी सबसे आम तत्व  in the Earth 's crust .
Iron 's very common presence in rocky planets like Earth is due to its abundant production as  a परिणाम of संलयन in high-mass सितारों , जहाँ the उत्पादन of nickel-56 ( जिससे decays to the सबसे आम समस्थानिक of  iron ) is the last nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic .
This causes radioactive nickel to become the last element  to be उत्पादित पहले पतन of a सुपरनोवा लीड to the विस्फोटक कार्यक्रम कि scatter इस precursor radionuclide of आयरन  abundantly into space .
जैसे अन्य समूह 8 तत्व , आयरन exists in a चौड़ी दायरा of ऑक्सीकरण राज्य  , −2 to +6 , although +2 and +3 are the most common .
elemental आयरन occurs in meteoroids और अन्य कम ऑक्सीजन environments , लकिन  is reactive to oxygen and water .
भैस आयरन सतहों appear lustrous silvery-gray , लकिन oxidize in सामान्य एयर to दे hydrated आयरन आक्साइड , commonly  known as rust .
Unlike many other metals which form passivating oxide layers , iron  आक्साइड occupy अधिक आवाज़ than आयरन मेटल , और यूँ आयरन आक्साइड फ्लेक बंद  and expose fresh surfaces for corrosion .
Iron metal has been  प्रयुक्त चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स , हालांकि तांबे alloys , जिससे have निम्नतर melting  temperatures , were used first in history .
Pure  आयरन is नरम ( softer than एल्युमिनियम ) , लकिन is unobtainable by smelting  .
The material is significantly hardened and strengthened by  impurities इससे the smelting प्रक्रम , ऐसे as कार्बन .
A  निश्चित proportion of कार्बन ( between 0.002 % और 2.1 % ) produces स्टील  , which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron .
Crude iron metal is  उत्पादित in धमाका furnaces , जहाँ अयस्क is घटाया by कोक to सुअर आयरन  , which has a high carbon content .
Further refinement with oxygen  reduces the कार्बन सामग्री to the सही proportion  to make steel .
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels  ) हैं by दूर the सबसे आम धातुओं in औद्योगिक उपयोग , due to उनके ग्रेट दायरा of वांछनीय गुण  and the abundance of iron .
Iron chemical  यौगिकों , जिससे शामिल अमिश्रित और  ferric compounds , have many uses .
Iron oxide mixed  साथ एल्युमिनियम चूर्ण can be ignited to  create a thermite reaction , used in welding and purifying ores .
It forms binary  यौगिकों साथ the हैलोजन्स और the chalcogens  .
Among its  कार्बधातुक यौगिकों is ferrocene , the पहला सैंडविच  compound discovered .
Iron plays an important role in  जीवविज्ञान , forming देवालय साथ आणविक ऑक्सीजन in हीमोग्लोबिन और myoglobin ; ये  two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates .
Iron is also the metal used at the active site of many important redox enzymes  dealing साथ सेल्यूलर श्वसन और ऑक्सीकरण और कटौती in पौधे और पशु  .
The Blue Cross  ब्लू शील्ड संघ ( bcbsa ) is a संघ  of 38 separate health insurance organizations and companies in the United States .
Combined , they  सीधे or indirectly provide स्वास्थ्य बीमे  to over 99 million Americans .
The history of Blue Cross dates  वापस to 1929 , जबकि the इतिहास of ब्लू शील्ड तिथियाँ to 1939  .
The Blue Cross Association dates back to  1960 , जबकि इसके ब्लू शील्ड बंटवारा थी  created in 1948 .
The  दो संगठन मिलाया in 1982  , forming the current association .
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American ,  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई , नई जीलैंड , कनाडाई , singaporean , हांग काँग , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी और jamaican अंग्रेज़ी ; as a कुरकुरे in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी और hiberno-english  , and as either a chip or wafer in Indian English ) is a thin slice of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy .
Potato  चिप्स हैं commonly परोसा as an क्षुधावर्धक  , side dish , or snack .
The basic chips are cooked and salted ;  अतिरिक्त किस्में हैं manufactured using विभिन्न flavorings और संघटक सहित seasonings , herbs , मसाले , cheeses  , and artificial additives .
`` Crisps '' , however , may also refer to many different types of savory snack products  बेची in the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड , कुछ बना इससे आलू , लकिन may भी be बना इससे मक्का , tapioca or  other cereals .
an उदाहरण of ये kinds of savory  snacks is Monster Munch .
Potato chips are a predominant part of the snack  खाना मार्केट in english-speaking देशों और numerous अन्य पश्चिमी  nations .
The global potato chip market generated  कुल revenues of us $ 16.4 अरब  in 2005 .
This  accounted लिये 35.5 % of the कुल savory स्नैक्स मार्केट in  that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ) .
Henry Clay , Sr. ( April 12 , 1777 – June 29 , 1852 ) was a lawyer ,  राजनेता और skilled orator जो represented केंटकी in दोनो the सीनेट और in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  .
He served three  अलग शर्तें as स्पीकर of the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  and was also Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829 .
He lost his  अभियान लिये अध्यक्ष in 1824 ,  1832 and 1844 .
Clay was a  प्रबल फिगर in दोनो the  First and Second Party systems .
As a leading war hawk in 1812 , he favored war  साथ ब्रिटेन और निभाई a significant भूमिका in अग्रणी the स्वदेश to युद्ध in the युद्ध  of 1812 .
In 1824 he ran for president and  खोया , लकिन फेंका उसके चुनावी मत to जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स , जो बना उसे सचिव of राज्य as the jacksonians denounced कया वे माना  a `` corrupt bargain . ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844 as the  प्रत्याशी of the whig पार्टी , जिससे he संस्थापित और प्रायः वर्चस्व .
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System , fighting for an increase in tariffs to foster  उद्योग in the संयुक्त राज्य , the उपयोग of संघीय funding to निर्माण और maintain अवसंरचना , और a दमदार  national bank .
He opposed the  annexation of टेक्सास , fearing it होता इंजेक्ट the गुलामी समस्या into  politics .
Clay also opposed the  mexican-american युद्ध और the `` manifest नियति `` नीति of  Democrats , which cost him votes in the close 1844 election .
Dubbed  the `` ग्रेट pacificator , '' मिट्टी brokered महत्वपूर्ण compromises दौरान the nullification  Crisis and on the slavery issue .
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio , '' along  साथ उसके सहयोगियों डेनियल वेबस्टर और जॉन C. calhoun , he थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in formulating the मिसौरी  Compromise of 1820 and the Compromise of 1850 .
He was viewed as the  प्राथमिक प्रतिनिधि of पश्चिमी रूचि in इस समूह  , and was given the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star . ''
A plantation owner , Clay held  स्लेव दौरान उसके आजीवन लकिन freed उन्हें in उसके  Will .
Abraham Lincoln , the Whig leader in Illinois , was  a ग्रेट admirer of मिट्टी , saying he थी `` my आदर्श of a ग्रेट man  . ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly  समर्थित मिट्टी 's आर्थिक कार्यक्रम  .
In 1957 , a Senate Committee selected Clay as one of  the पाँच महानतम u.s . सीनेटरों , साथ साथ डेनियल वेबस्टर , जॉन C. calhoun , रॉबर्ट la  Follette , and Robert Taft .
BJ 's Wholesale Club , Inc. , commonly  referred to बस as bj 's , is a membership-only गोदाम क्लबों कड़ी ऑपरेटिंग on the संयुक्त राज्य ईस्ट coast , as खूब as in the  state of Ohio .
The company is ranked #  232 on सौभाग्य पत्रिका 's 2010 लिस्टिंग of  America 's 500 largest public corporations .
The Wizard of Oz , known during  उसके शासनकाल as the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली oz , is the epithet of ऑस्कर zoroaster phadrig इसहाक़ नॉर्मन  Henkel Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs , a fictional character in the Land of Oz , created by American author L. Frank Baum .
The character was further  popularized by the क्लासिक 1939 फिल्म , wherein उसके पूरा नाम is नहीं उल्लेखित  .
Kristinia Jamie  debarge ( ; born कूच 8 , 1990 ) is an अमरीकी सिंगर ,  songwriter , dancer and actress .
She first appeared on national television in 2003  as a प्रतियोगी on the अमरीकी आइडल spin-off , अमरीकी juniors  .
In 2009 , DeBarge  हस्ताक्षरित a अनुबंध साथ the द्वीप रिकॉर्ड विभाग sodapop , releasing उसके डेब्यू एल्बम उजागर  in July of the same year .
The  पहला सिंगल , `` अलविदा `` , पहुँचे  the top 20 in the US and Canada .
The lead single ( `` Cry Wolf ''  ) इससे उसके बेनाम sophomore एल्बम थी released  on September 27 , 2012 .
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the  विश्वविद्यालयों of hawaiʻi at mānoa in ncaa प्रभाग i  FBS college football .
The team is  coached by norm चाउ .
It was part of the Western Athletic Conference until July  2012 , जब the टोली joined the पहाड़ वेस्ट सम्मेलन  .
The  हवाई योद्धाओं यहूद the तीसरा non-aq टोली to खेल in a bcs कटोरी खेल ; खोने to जॉर्जिया  41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January 1 , 2008 in New Orleans , Louisiana .
Marvin  gaye ( अप्रैल 2 , 1939april 1 , 1984 ) , born मारविन pentz  Gay , Jr. , was an American singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How  मीठी it is ( to be loved by तुम ) `` और `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम कुएं और  Tammi Terrell , later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept  एल्बम कया 's going on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown  to break away from the reins of its production company .
Gaye 's  बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे अनेक r &  B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe  अंतर्गत a कर निर्वासन in the जल्दी 1980s , gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning  hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye  रै महरूम मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों , सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन  Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
Location of  chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र
the abandoned नगर of pripyat साथ  Chernobyl plant in the distance
abandoned आवास ब्लॉक in  Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster ( , Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear  दुर्घटना कि occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त ( तब officially the यूक्रेनी ssr ) , जिससे थी अंतर्गत the सीधा क्षेत्राधिकार of  the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and fire released  विशाल quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय अणु into the  atmosphere , which spread over much of the western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history , and is  एक of तभी दो वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य होने the फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति  in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the  संदूषण और avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000 मजदूर  and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles .
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been  विवादित , और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे as cancers और deformities हैं स्टिल  being accounted for .
Mrs. Claus says  अलविदा to उसके husband as he सेट बंद on उसके यात्रा in इस 1919  postcard
Mrs. Claus  is the बीवी of सांता क्लॉस , the क्रिसमस gift-bringer in उत्तर अमरीकी  and European Christmas tradition .
She is  ज्ञात लिये बनाना कुकीज़ साथ  the elves and preparing toys with her husband Santa Claus .
Her first name  is a रहस्य , हालांकि वो रै महरूम referred to as मरियम , जेसिका  , Layla , Annette , Heidi , or Martha .
HijackThis ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is an  खोलें सोर्स enumerating औजार लिये microsoft खिड़कियाँ originally निर्मित by merijn bellekom , और  later sold to Trend Micro .
The program is notable for targeting  browser-hijacking विधि , बल्कि than relying on a डेटाबेस  of known spyware .
It scans a user 's computer quickly , and  प्रदर्शक ब्राउजर hijacking स्थितियाँ , प्रर्दशित कया प्रविष्टियां  are there .
hijackthis is प्रयुक्त primarily लिये निदान of ब्राउजर hijacking , as uninformed उपयोग of इसके हटाना सुविधाएं  can cause significant software damage to a computer .
hijackthis करता नहीं हटाएँ or detect स्पाइवेयर ; it सूचियाँ सबसे आम  locations where browser hijacking activity can occur .
ब्राउजर hijacking can कारण मैलवेयर  to be installed on a computer .
On February 16 , 2012 , Trend Micro released the  hijackthis सोर्स कोड as खोलें सोर्स और it is अभी उपलब्धियाँ on the sourceforge साईट  .
Saddle Creek  रिकॉर्ड is an अमरीकी रिकार्ड लेबल  based in Omaha , Nebraska .
Started as a college class project on entrepreneurship , the label was  संस्थापित by माइक mogis और जस्टिन oberst in 1993 ( as lumberjack रिकॉर्ड  ) .
Mogis soon turned  over उसके भूमिका in the कम्पनी to robb nansel  .
The label is named after Saddle Creek Road , a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha , and the beginnings of a scene whose members included Conor Oberst ( then a solo artist , currently of Bright  आँखें , conor oberst और the रहस्यवादी घाटी बैंड , desaparecidos और राक्षस of लोक ) , टिम kasher ( तब of slowdown वर्जिनिया , फिलहाल of कर्सिव और  The Good Life ) , and others .
Collectively ,  वे यहूद ज्ञात unofficially as the  `` Creekers '' .
Saddle Creek first appeared in print on a show flyer , offering to  `` खर्च an संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक '' ( बाद to be the  title of the label 's DVD . )
Saddle Creek became an  incorporated एंटिटी as a परिणाम of a क्लास प्रोजेक्ट on उद्यमिता  .
Distribution is handled by the Alternative  वितरण गठबंधन , जिससे is अंतर्गत the warner  Music Group umbrella .
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the flagship label of a style of music  पुकारा `` the ओमाहा ध्वनि `` , characterized by a पतला देश twang  .
This is increasingly inaccurate , though , with the rise of more  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ध्वनि ऐसे as those favored by the faint और टूटा spindles  .
The eclectic sounds of Saddle Creek 's disparate member bands is somewhat  समझाया by उनके इतिहास ; a क्रमांक of the असली सदस्यों of the लेबल attended  grade school together .
A `` sister label '' , of sorts , to  काठी क्रीक is टोली प्रेम , प्रारंभ by conor oberst in  2004 .
The label opened arms to their first bands  नहीं आधारित in ओमाहा in 2001 साथ रिलीज by अभी it 's ओवरहेड और sorry परिचय ड्रेसडेन  .
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed , including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley , Eric  bachmann ( formerly नेता of archers of loaf और कुटिल उंगलियाँ इससे उत्तर कैरोलिना ) , georgie जेम्स ( वॉशिंगटन d.C.  ) , Two Gallants ( San Francisco ) , and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ) .
In 2005 , Spend an Evening  साथ काठी क्रीक , a वृत्तचित्र detailing the पहला टेन सालो  of the record label 's history , was released .
The DVD  सुविधाएँ extensive साक्षात्कार साथ the काठी क्रीक bands , archival फुटेज , और विरल सजीव  performances .
On June 8  , 2007 , the लेबल खोली उनके अपना म्यूज़िक स्थान नामित slowdown ( बाद the समूह slowdown  Virginia ) , located in downtown Omaha , Nebraska .
The following is a list of episodes for  the टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ पूरा हाउस  .
In total , there were 192 episodes filmed for  the दिखाएँ over the कोर्स of इसके आठ सीज़न  , from 1987 to 1995 .
पूरा हाउस is a हालात कॉमेडी जिससे क्रॉनिकल्स a विधवा पिता 's struggles of उठाने  his three young daughters and the lives that they have touched .
The patriarch of the family , Danny ( Bob Saget  ) , आमंत्रण उसके brother-in-law जेसी ( जॉन stamos ) और उसके बेहतरीन dost जॉय ( डेव coulier ) , to सहायता उठाएँ उसके children ( candace cameron , jodie sweetin , और मरियम kate/ashley olsen ) , बाद  his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver .
After episodes 88 and 89 , Jesse marries Becky (  लोरी loughlin ) , और वे मूव into the  attic .
Then , after episodes 104 and 105 , Becky and Jesse have twin  लड़कों नामित nicky और एलेक्स ( डेनियल और केविन renteria/blake और डिलन  Tuomy-Wilhoit ) .
The series ends with episode  192 , `` मिशेल यात्राएँ again भाग 2 '' , जब  Michelle loses her memory and the family tries to restore it .
Notice  of स्टैम्प अधिनियम of 1765  in Newspaper
American newspapers reacted to the  स्टैम्प अधिनियम साथ गुस्सा और पूर्वानुमान of the निधन of पत्रकारिता  .
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in American Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 George III , c. 12 ) imposed a direct tax by the British Parliament  specifically on the colonies of अंग्रेजों अमेरिका , और it जरूरी कि अनेक मुद्रित सामग्री in the colonies be उत्पादित on stamped पेपर  produced in London , carrying an embossed revenue stamp .
These printed  सामग्री यहूद विधिक दस्तावेज़ , मैगज़ीन , अखबारों और अनेक अन्य प्रकार  of paper used throughout the colonies .
Like previous taxes , the  स्टैम्प कर था to be सशुल्क in मान्य अंग्रेजों करेंसी  , not in colonial paper money .
The  purpose of the कर थी to सहायता अदा लिये सैनिकों stationed  in North America after the British victory in the Seven Years ' War .
The British  सरकारी लगा कि the colonies यहूद the प्राथमिक beneficiaries of इस सैन्य उपस्थिति  , and should pay at least a portion of the expense .
The Stamp  अधिनियम मिले ग्रेट प्रतिरोध in the  colonies .
The  colonies भेजा no प्रतिनिधि to पार्लियामेंट , और इसलिए था no influence over कया  taxes were raised , how they were levied , or how they would be spent .
Many colonists considered it a  उल्लंघन of उनके अधिकारों as अंग्रेजो to be taxed बगैर उनके सहमति —consent  that only the colonial legislatures could grant .
Colonial  सभाओं भेजा  petitions and protests .
The Stamp Act Congress held in New  यॉर्क नगर , reflecting the पहला significant संयुक्त औपनिवेशिक जवाब to कोई अंग्रेजों माप , भी petitioned पार्लियामेंट  and the King .
Local protest  समूह , led by औपनिवेशिक व्यापारियों और landowners , स्थापित कनेक्शन्स through पत्राचार कि निर्मित a ढीला गठबन्धन  that extended from New England to Georgia .
Protests and  demonstrations initiated by the बेटे of स्वतंत्रता प्रायः turned हिंसक और  destructive as the masses became involved .
Very soon all stamp  कर वितरकों यहूद सहमे into resigning उनके आयोग  , and the tax was never effectively collected .
विपक्ष to the स्टैम्प अधिनियम थी नहीं  limited to the colonies .
British merchants and  निर्माताओं , जिनकी निर्यात to the colonies यहूद threatened by औपनिवेशिक आर्थिक समस्याएं exacerbated by the कर  , also pressured Parliament .
The Act was repealed on March 18 , 1766 as a matter of expedience , but Parliament affirmed its power  to legislate लिये the colonies “in सब मामले whatsoever” by भी गुजर the declaratory  Act .
There followed a series  of नई कर और regulations , likewise opposed by the  colonists .
The episode played a major role in defining the  grievances और enabling the व्यवस्थित औपनिवेशिक प्रतिरोध कि led to the अमरीकी क्रान्ति  in 1775 .
pt-105 underway  .
PT boats were a variety  of torpedo-armed तेज़ आक्रमण शिल्प प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी in संसार युद्ध  II to attack larger surface ships .
``  pt '' is the us हल वर्गीकरण प्रतीक लिये ``  Patrol Torpedo '' .
The PT boat squadrons were  nicknamed `` the मच्छर बेड़े '' .
The Japanese  पुकारा उन्हें `` शैतान नौकाएँ ''  .
The original pre– World War  i torpedo नौकाएँ यहूद designed साथ `` विस्थापन  '' hulls .
They  विस्थापित up to 300 टन और the  top speed was .
The PT boats  प्रयुक्त in संसार युद्ध ii यहूद निर्मित using the planing -type  hull form developed for racing boats .
They were much  छोटी ( 30–75 टन ) और तेज़ ( 35–40  knots ) .
दोनो प्रकार यहूद designed to स्ट्राइक at larger warships साथ torpedoes , using अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची  speed to get close , and small size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire .
They were  much कम महंगी than विशाल  warships .
PT boats were much  तेज़ , छोटी , और सस्ता than conventional ( विस्थापन  hull ) vessels .
During World War II , American PT boats engaged enemy  destroyers और numerous अन्य सतह शिल्प , ranging इससे छोटी नौकाएँ to विशाल सप्लाई  ships .
PT boats also operated as gunboats against  दुश्मन छोटी शिल्प , ऐसे as कराया barges प्रयुक्त by the जापानी शक्तियां लिये inter-island हस्तांतरण  .
शुभ शुक्रवार is a धार्मिक अवकाश observed primarily  by Christians commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death at Calvary .
The holiday is observed  दौरान पावन सप्ताह as भाग of the paschal triduum on the शुक्रवार preceding ईस्टर संडे , और may coincide साथ the  Jewish observance of Passover .
It is also known as Holy Friday , Great Friday , Black Friday , or Easter Friday ,  हालांकि the latter properly refers to the शुक्रवार in ईस्टर सप्ताह  .
Based on the details of the Canonical gospels , the Crucifixion of  यीशु थी सबसे संभावित to have महरूम on a शुक्रवार ( the दिन पहले the  Sabbath ) ( ) .
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33 , by two  अलग समूह , और originally as ad 34 by इसहाक़ न्यूटन via the मतभेद between the biblical और जूलियन पंचांग और the crescent of the चंद्रमा  .
A third method , using a completely different  खगोलीय दृष्टिकोण आधारित on a चंद्र crucifixion अंधेरा और ग्रहण मॉडल ( सतत साथ apostle पीटर 's सन्दर्भ to a `` चंद्रमा of रक्त '' in अधिनियमों 2:20 ) , अंक to शुक्रवार , 3 अप्रैल  AD 33 .
the ग्रेट जलाशय is the largest क्षेत्रफल of endorheic watersheds  in North America .
It is noted for both its  arid शर्तें और इसके जलाशय और दायरा स्थलाकृति कि varies इससे the उत्तर अमरीकी कम पाइंट at badwater जलाशय to the उच्चतम पाइंट of the संलग्न संयुक्त राज्य  , less than away at the summit of Mount Whitney .
The region  spans अनेक physiographic विभाजन  , biomes / ecoregions , and deserts .
रास्टर may refer  to:
Raster  ग्राफिक्स , आलेखीय तकनीकों using  arrays of pixel values
रास्टर ग्राफिक्स एडिटर , a  computer program
Raster scan , the pattern of image readout ,  हस्तांतरण , भंडार , और पुनर्निर्माण in टेलीविज़न और कंप्यूटर  images
Rasterisation , or  rasterization , परिवर्तन of a वेक्टर चित्र to a रास्टर  image
Raster image processor , or RIP , a  घटक of a मुद्रण प्रणाली कि performs rasterisation
Raster interrupt ,  a कंप्यूटर इन्टरनेट सिग्नल
रास्टर to वेक्टर , an  image conversion process
रास्टर बार , an  effect used in computer demos
raster-noton ,  a record label
rastrum , a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in मध्यकालीन म्यूज़िक पांडुलिपियों  to draw staff lines
रास्टर दस्तावेज़ ऑब्जेक्ट ,  a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish hero and later turned king in the  एपिक कविता नामित बाद उसे , एक of the oldest surviving टुकड़े of साहित्य in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा  .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by  the जापानी इम्पीरियल सामान्य मुख्यालय ( आपरेशन z in नियोजन ) और the बैटल of पर्ल हार्बर ) थी a आश्चर्य सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी  against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From the standpoint  of the defenders , the आक्रमण commenced at 7:48  a.m. Hawaiian Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with  सैन्य क्रियाएँ the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the संयुक्त किंगडम , the नीदरलैंड्स , और  the United States .
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters , bombers and torpedo  planes in दो लहरें , शुभारम्भ इससे छह वायुयान  carriers .
सब आठ u.S. नेवी battleships यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त ,  with four being sunk .
Two  of ये यहूद बाद उठाया , और साथ the बाकी  four repaired , six battleships returned to service later in the war .
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers , three  destroyers , an anti-aircraft प्रशिक्षण जलयान  , and one minelayer .
188 U.S. aircraft  यहूद नष्ट ; 2,402 अमेरिकी यहूद  killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as the  शक्ति स्टेशन , डॉकयार्ड , मेंटेनेंस , और ईंधन और torpedo भंडार सुविधाएं , as खूब as the पनडुब्बी पियर और मुख्यालय भवन ( भी घर of  the intelligence section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses were light : 29  वायुयान और पाँच midget submarines खोया , और 65 servicemen  killed or wounded .
One Japanese sailor was  captured  .
The  आक्रमण आए as a profound शॉक to the अमरीकी लोगों और led सीधे to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into  World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters .
The following  दिन ( दिसम्बर 8 ) , the संयुक्त राज्य घोषित  war on Japan .
Domestic support for  non-interventionism , जिससे था महरूम दमदार , disappeared  .
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example  the neutrality पैट्रोल ) थी replaced by क्रियाशील गठबंधन  .
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and  इटली to घोषित युद्ध on the u.S. on दिसम्बर 11 , जिससे थी reciprocated  by the U.S. the same day .
There were  numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents लिये unannounced सैन्य  action by Japan .
However , the lack of any formal warning , particularly while negotiations were  स्टिल जाहिर जारी , led अध्यक्ष फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट to proclaim दिसम्बर 7 , 1941 , ``  a date which will live in infamy `` .
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south United States  राजमार्ग कि रनों लिये in the पहाड़ - उत्तरी मैदान राज्य of the  United States .
The southern  टर्मिनस of the रूट is at the संयुक्त states-mexico किनारा in el पासो , टेक्सास  , connecting with Mexican Federal Highway 45 .
The northern terminus is at the United  states-canada किनारा in fortuna , उत्तर डकोटा , जहाँ the रूट continues उत्तर as  Saskatchewan Highway 35 .
In both  the संयुक्त राज्य और saskatchewan , कनाडा  the route is known as the CanAm Highway .
Sections of US  85 हैं माना भाग of the थियोडोर  Roosevelt Expressway .
The United States  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1968 थी the 46th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय चुनाव , आयोजित  on Tuesday , November 5 , 1968 .
The Republican nominee , former Vice-President Richard Nixon , won the  चुनाव over the लोकतांत्रिक nominee , लाज़िम vice-president ह्यूबर्ट humphrey  .
Nixon ran on a campaign that  promised to restore विधि और अनुक्रम to the स्वदेश 's शहरों , फटा by  riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently  disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन कि था वर्चस्व अध्यक्षीय राजनीती लिये 36 सालो  .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B.  जॉनसन जीती in a ऐतिहासिक भूस्खलन , the चुनाव देखी the लाज़िम अध्यक्ष मजबूर आउट of the रेस और a रिपब्लिकन निर्वाचित लिये the पहला  time in twelve years .
It was a wrenching national  अनुभव , conducted दौरान a साल of हिंसा कि शामिल the हत्या of सिविल अधिकारों नेता मार्टिन लूथर किंग , jr. , और subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the स्वदेश , the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. कैनेडी ,  widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses , and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
The  चुनाव प्रदर्शित the strongest तीसरा पार्टी प्रयत्न चूंकि 1912 by  former Alabama Governor George Wallace , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's  अभियान opposed संघीय हस्तक्षेप in the दक्षिण to समाप्त स्कूल पृथक्करण , he carried the गहन दक्षिण  and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This was the last  चुनाव in जिससे नई यॉर्क था the सबसे मत in the चुनावी  college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census , California gained  the सबसे चुनावी मत और रै remained the सबसे populous राज्य  since then .
This is the latest election where a presidential  टिकट जीती बगैर carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी 's घर राज्य  .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System  मॉनिटर अनुप्रयोग शामिल साथ the microsoft खिड़कियाँ nt परिवार of ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों कि provides सीमित सूचना परिचय कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शन और कार्यशील अनुप्रयोग , प्रक्रियाओं और cpu उपयोग , कमिट चार्ज और मेमोरी सूचना , संजाल कार्यकलाप और आंकडे , logged-in उपयोक्ता , और प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft लिये  Windows , 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly , e.g , `` Process Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set  प्रक्रम प्राथमिकताएं , प्रोसेसर अपनापन , forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं , और shut bas , restart , hibernate or  log off from Windows .
Windows Task  मैनेजर थी introduced साथ खिड़कियाँ  NT 4.0 .
पिछला संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ nt शामिल the कार्य सूची अनुप्रयोग  , which had far fewer features .
The task list was capable of listing currently  कार्यशील प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें , or बनाना a नई प्रक्रम  .
In Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is  भी उपस्थित कि allows अभिगम to standby , hibernate , फेरे बंद , restart , log  Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows (  microsoft खिड़कियाँ 3.x , खिड़कियाँ 95 , खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as कार्य to प्रदर्शक the कार्यक्रम  currently running .
This file was executed by running  the taskman.exe संचिका इससे the c : \खिड़कीs निर्देशिका  .
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used in the  आधुनिक जापानी लिखने प्रणाली साथ साथ hiragana ( ひらがな , ) , katakana ( カタカナ , ) , hindu-arabic numerals , और the occasional उपयोग of the लैटिन  alphabet .
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the Chinese characters literally  अर्थात् `` हान वर्ण '' और is लिखा using the वही वर्ण as the चाइनीज hanzi ( )  .
John R Williams ( May 4 , 1782 – October 20 , 1854 ) was  an अमरीकी सिपाही , व्यापारी , और राजनेता जो is सबसे खूब ज्ञात लिये  serving as the first mayor of Detroit , Michigan .
In total , he served as  डेट्रॉयट 's महापौर लिये पाँच अन्य  terms .
He  भी थी a ब्रिगेडियर सामान्य in the  United States Army during the Black Hawk War .
A simple dry  चुम्बकीय पोर्टेबल कम्पास  .
A smartphone that can be used as  a कम्पास क्युकी of the magnetometer अंदर  .
An iPhone  कि can be प्रयुक्त as a geological कम्पास क्युकी  of the 3-axis teslameter and 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A military compass  कि थी प्रयुक्त दौरान संसार  War I .
A compass is a navigational instrument that shows  दिशानिर्देश in a फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ कि is stationary सापेक्ष to the सतह of the  earth .
The frame of reference  defines the चार कार्डिनल दिशानिर्देश ( or अंक ) – उत्तर  , south , east , and west .
इंटरमीडिएट दिशानिर्देश हैं भी  defined .
Usually , a diagram called a compass rose , which shows the directions  ( साथ उनके names प्रायः abbreviated to आद्याक्षर ) , is चिह्नित on the कम्पास  .
When the compass is in use , the  रोज़ is लकीर साथ the रियल दिशानिर्देश in the फ़्रेम of  reference , so , for example , the `` N '' mark on the rose really points to the north .
Frequently , in addition to the rose or sometimes  बजाय of it , कोण markings in डिग्री हैं दिखाया on the  compass .
North  corresponds to शून्य डिग्री , और the कोण बढ़ाएँ clockwise , so ईस्ट is 90 डिग्री  , south is 180 , and west is 270 .
These numbers allow the  कम्पास to दिखाएँ azimuths or बियरिंग , जिससे हैं commonly stated  in this notation .
The magnetic  कम्पास थी पहला invented as a यंत्र लिये भविष्यवाणी as जल्दी as the  Chinese Han Dynasty ( Since about 206 BC ) .
The compass was used in Song  राजवंश चीन by the सैन्य लिये navigational orienteering by 1040-1044 , और थी प्रयुक्त लिये  maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117 .
The use of a  कम्पास is अंकित in पश्चिमी यूरोपीय between 1187 और 1202 , और  in Persia in 1232 .
the शुष्क कम्पास थी invented in यूरोपीय  around 1300 .
This was  supplanted in the जल्दी 20th सदी by the  liquid-filled magnetic compass .
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire (  quechua : tawantinsuyu ) थी the largest साम्राज्य in pre-columbian अमेरिका  .
The administrative , political and military center of the  साम्राज्य थी स्तिथ in कुज़्को in modern-day पेरू  .
The Inca  सभ्यता arose इससे the हाइलैंड्स of पेरू sometime  in the early 13th century .
From 1438 to 1533 , the Incas used a variety of methods , from conquest to peaceful assimilation , to incorporate a large portion of western South America , centered on the Andean  पहाड़ सीमाएँ , सहित , besides पेरू , विशाल भाग of आधुनिक इक्वाडोर , पश्चिमी और दक्षिण सेंट्रल बोलीविया , उत्तरपश्चिम अर्जेंटीना , उत्तर और सेंट्रल चिली , और दक्षिणी कोलंबिया into a राज्य comparable to the  historical empires of Eurasia .
The official  भाषा of the साम्राज्य थी quechua , हालांकि सैंकड़ों of लोकल भाषाएं  and dialects of Quechua were spoken .
The Inca referred to their empire as Tawantinsuyu which can  be अनूदित as the चार regions or the चार  United Provinces .
There were many local forms of worship , most of  उन्हें concerning लोकल पवित्र `` huacas `` , लकिन the इन्का नेतृत्व प्रोत्साहित the इबादत of inti —the सूर्य god—and imposed इसके प्रभुता ऊपर  other cults such as that of Pachamama .
The Incas considered their King , the  sapa इन्का , to be the `` चाइल्ड of the सूर्य  . ''
The kidneys are organs that serve several essential  नियामक भूमिकाएँ in सबसे पशु , सहित vertebrates और कुछ invertebrates  .
They are essential in the urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the  विनियमन of इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स , मेंटेनेंस of acid–base संतुलन , और विनियमन of रक्त दबाव ( via maintaining नमक  and water balance ) .
वे serve the देह as a प्राकृतिक फिल्टर of the रक्त  , and remove wastes which are diverted to the urinary bladder .
In producing urine , the  गुर्दे excrete wastes ऐसे as यूरिया और अमोनियम , और वे  are also responsible for the reabsorption of water , glucose , and amino acids .
The kidneys also produce hormones  सहित calcitriol , erythropoietin , और the एंजाइम  renin .
स्तिथ at the पश्च of the abdominal गुहा in the retroperitoneum  , the kidneys receive blood from the paired renal arteries , and drain into the paired renal veins .
प्रत्येक गुर्दा excretes मूत्र into a ureter , itself a युग्म ढांचा  that empties into the urinary bladder .
Renal physiology is the study of  गुर्दा फलन , जबकि nephrology is the चिकित्सा specialty  concerned with kidney diseases .
Diseases of the kidney are  विविध , लकिन individuals साथ गुर्दा बीमारी अक्सर प्रदर्शक characteristic  clinical features .
Common clinical conditions  involving the गुर्दा शामिल the nephritic और nephrotic syndromes , renal cysts , अधि गुर्दा चोट , दीर्घकालिक गुर्दा  disease , urinary tract infection , nephrolithiasis , and urinary tract obstruction .
Various cancers of the  गुर्दा मौजूद ; the सबसे आम वयस्क renal कर्कट is  renal cell carcinoma .
Cancers , cysts , and some other renal  शर्तें can be प्रबंधित साथ हटाना of the  kidney , or nephrectomy .
When renal function , measured by  glomerular filtration रेट , is persistently ग़रीब ,  dialysis and kidney transplantation may be treatment options .
Although  वे हैं नहीं severely नुकसानदेह , गुर्दा पत्थरों can be  painful and a nuisance .
The removal  of गुर्दा पत्थरों involves अल्ट्रासाउंड उपचार to ब्रेक up the पत्थरों into छोटी  pieces , which are then passed through the urinary tract .
One common symptom of kidney  पत्थरों is a शार्प पीड़ा in the medial/lateral खण्ड of  the lower back .
Lockton Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately held  बीमे brokerage कड़ , providing बीमे , रिस्क प्रबन्धन और कर्मचारी लाभ समाधान  .
In addition to its Kansas City ,  मिसौरी मुख्यालय , lockton operates 60 स्थितियाँ in 17  countries .
Lockton is currently  घर to अधिक than 4,450 शरीक विश्वव्यापी  .
The company was founded by  जोकर lockton in 1966 और रै चूंकि become the world’s 9th  largest insurance brokerage firm .
Lockton serves a  चौड़ी सरणी of उद्योग साथ सेवाएं कि शामिल रिस्क प्रबन्धन , casualty  , surety , professional indemnity and more .
For 46 years , Lockton  posted असाधारण सशुल्क विकास , साथ वैश्विक revenues reaching  $ 915 million in fiscal 2012 .
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s  टोली works closely साथ बीमे वाहक और प्रशासकों to बनाएँ व्यापक और एकीकृत  benefits strategies for clients .
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including compliance , executive benefits ,  स्वास्थ्य और welfare , स्वास्थ्य रिस्क समाधान , रिटायरमेंट और अधिक  .
lockton अपनापन : lockton अपनापन , an संबद्ध of lockton कंपनियाँ , meets the बीमे needs  of affinity groups , franchises , professional organizations , and associations of all sizes .
Lockton Affinity offers a  किस्में of बीमे उत्पाद विकल्प और कार्यक्रम  .
Products include :  सामान्य देयता , पेशेवर देयता , प्रॉपर्टी , मजदूर मुआवजे , निर्देशकों & अधिकारियों  Liability , Commercial Auto , Specialty Coverage , Excess , Health Plans and more .
Lockton International : Lockton International  operates कार्यालयों in the uk और आयरलैंड , as खूब as कार्यालयों throughout  Asia and Latin America .
In Europe , Lockton International is a partner  in eos risq , europe’s अग्रणी बीमे  broking and risk management consultancy .
EOS RISQ is an  equity-based यूरोपीय साझेदारी of प्रमुख स्वतंत्र बीमे brokers साथ over 3,500 कर्मचारी  based in more than 30 countries in Europe .
lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय provides specialized समाधान लिये निजी लाइनों , sme’s और प्रमुख  multi-national clients .
White chocolate is  a चॉकलेट डेरिवेटिव  .
It commonly consists of cocoa butter , sugar , milk solids and  नमक , और is characterized by a पाले पीला or आइवरी रूप  .
The melting point of  cocoa मक्खन , इसके प्राथमिक cocoa सेम घटक , is  high enough to keep white chocolate solid at room temperature .
Donald Leon `` Don '' Blankenship ( born March 14 , 1950 ) was Chairman and CEO of Massey Energy Co.  , the छठे largest कोयले कम्पनी  ( by 2008 production ) in the United States .
He served in  those भूमिकाएँ इससे नवम्बर 30 ,  2000 , until December 31 , 2010 .
Blankenship is an active financial backer of the  रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और भागीदार in लोकल और राज्य राजनीती , विशेषकर in उसके घर राज्य  of West Virginia .
He has frequently spoken out  सरेआम परिचय राजनीती , the पर्यावरण , संघ , और  coal production .
U.S. Securities  और एक्सचेंज आयोग filings दिखाएँ blankenship थी सशुल्क $ 17.8  million in 2009 , the highest in the coal industry .
His 2009 pay represents a $  6.8 लाख उठाएँ over 2008 और लगभग दोगुना उसके मुआवजे पैकेज  in 2007 .
blankenship भी प्राप्त a deferred मुआवजे पैकेज valued  at $ 27.2 million in 2009 .
On December 3 , 2010 , Blankenship announced that he was retiring  as सीईओ at the समाप्त of the साल , और होता be succeeded by massey  President Baxter F. Phillips Jr .
Bow Wow  is एक of the transcriptions  used in English to describe a dog 's bark .
Bow Wow  may भी refer  to:
Bow Wow ( band )  , a जापानी मुश्किल rock/heavy  metal band
Bow Wow ( rapper  ) , an अमरीकी rapper और  actor
Bow  wow सॉस , a सॉस विकसित in the cotswolds  region of England
Bow Wow Wow , a  uk नई वेव बैंड
`` Bow Wow '' , a song by The Fiery  furnaces इससे उनके 2003 एल्बम gallowsbird  's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues ( My Mama Treat Me like a Dog ) '' , a song  रचित in the 1920s by चट्टान dost & nat ओसबोर्न
लापरवाही ( lat . negligentia , इससे neglegere , to उपेक्षा , वस्तुतः `` नहीं to चुनें up कुछ  '' ) is a failure to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances .
The area of tort law known as negligence involves  नुक़सान caused by carelessness , नहीं जानबूझकर नुक़सान  .
According  to jay M. feinman of the rutgers  University School of Law ;
`` The core idea of  लापरवाही is कि लोगों चाहिए कसरत उचित परवाह जब वे अधिनियम by लेने खाता  of the potential harm that they might foreseeably cause harm to other people . ''
`` those who go personally or bring  प्रॉपर्टी जहाँ वे जान कि वे or it may आइये into टक्कर साथ the व्यक्तियों or प्रॉपर्टी  of others have by law a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision . ''
Fletcher v  rylands ( [ 1866 ] lr 1 ex 265  )
Through civil litigation , if an injured person proves that another  व्यक्ति acted negligently to कारण उनके चोट , वे can रिकवर क्षतिपूर्ति to compensate लिये उनके  harm .
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the injured  अभियोक्ता to मुआवजे लिये नुक़सान to उनके देह , प्रॉपर्टी , दिमागी well-being , वित्तीय औकात , or अंतरंग  relationships .
However , because negligence cases are very fact-specific , this general definition does not  fully बताइये the अवधारणा of जब the विधि होगा आवश्यकता एक व्यक्ति to compensate another लिये नुकसान caused by आकस्मिक चोट .
Further , the law  of लापरवाही at आम विधि is तभी एक पहलू of the विधि  of liability .
हालांकि resulting क्षतिपूर्ति जरूर be सिद्ध in अनुक्रम to रिकवर मुआवजे  in a negligence action , the nature and extent of those damages are not the primary focus of negligence cases .
A melanocytic  nevus ( भी ज्ञात as `` nevocytic nevus '' ) is a प्रकार  of lesion that contains nevus cells ( a type of melanocyte ) .
कुछ स्त्रोत equate the पद  mole with `` melanocytic nevus '' .
Other sources  आरक्षित the पद `` mole '' लिये अन्य उद्देश्य  .
The majority of moles appear during the first two decades  of a person’s जीवन , जबकि परिचय एक in प्रत्येक 100 शिशु is born साथ औज़ार  .
Acquired moles are a form of benign neoplasm , while  जन्मजात औज़ार , or जन्मजात nevi , हैं माना a नाबालिग malformation or hamartoma और may be at a उच्चतर रिस्क  for melanoma .
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a pigmented  विकास on the स्किन , formed ज़्यादातर of a प्रकार of कोशिका  known as a melanocyte .
The high  विशेषज्ञता of the body’s pigmenting  agent , melanin , is responsible for their dark color .
Moles are a member of  the परिवार of स्किन lesions ज्ञात as nevi  .
The  व्यापक metabolic फलक , or रासायनिक स्क्रीन , ( cmp ; cpt कोड 80053 ) is a फलक of 14  blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool .
The CMP provides a rough check of kidney  फलन , जिगर फलन , और electrolyte और द्रव संतुलन , लकिन  it is far from perfect .
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a result of false positives  और यूँ the cbc may need to be दोहराया लिये a रोगी ( or replaced  with a more specific test ) .
The CMP is an expanded version of  the मौलिक metabolic फलक ( bmp ) , जिससे  does not include liver tests .
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as part of a routine physical examination , or may be used to  मॉनिटर a रोगी साथ a दीर्घकालिक बीमारी , ऐसे as मधुमेह mellitus or hypertension  .
Previous names  लिये the फलक of परीक्षण have महरूम chem 12 , रसायन फलक  , Chemistry screen , SMA 12 , SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - Computer ) .
The tests are  performed on मशीने आधारित on the autoanalyzer  invented in 1957 .
Natural  गैस निष्कर्षण by देशों in घन मीटर  per year .
Natural gas is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon  गैस मिश्रण consisting primarily of मिथेन , लकिन commonly सहित varying amounts of अन्य hydrocarbons , कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड , नाइट्रोजन , और हाइड्रोजन  sulfide .
Natural gas is an energy source  प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये हीटिंग , कुकिंग , और विद्युत  generation .
It is also  प्रयुक्त as ईंधन लिये वाहनों और as a रासायनिक फर्टिलाइजर in the manufacture of प्लास्टिक और अन्य  commercially important organic chemicals .
Natural gas is found in deep  भूमिगत प्राकृतिक चट्टान formations or संबद्ध साथ अन्य हाइड्रोकार्बन टंकी  in coal beds and as methane clathrates .
Petroleum  is भी another संसाधन मिला in निकटता to और साथ  natural gas .
Most natural gas was created over  समय by दो mechanisms : biogenic और thermogenic  .
Biogenic gas is created by methanogenic  जीवों in marshes , bogs , landfills , और उथले sediments  .
Deeper in the earth , at greater  तापमान और दबाव , thermogenic गैस is निर्मित  from buried organic material .
Before natural gas can be used as a fuel , it must undergo processing  to हटाएँ impurities , सहित जल , to मिलें the विशेषताएँ of marketable प्राकृतिक गैस  .
the by-products of प्रसंस्करण शामिल इथेन , प्रोपेन , butanes , pentanes , और उच्चतर आणविक वज़न hydrocarbons  , hydrogen sulfide ( which may be converted into pure sulfur ) , carbon dioxide , water vapor , and sometimes helium and nitrogen .
Natural gas is often informally referred to  बस as गैस , विशेषकर जब compared to अन्य  energy sources such as oil or coal .
This  पेज is परिचय the कल्पना  Movers band .
For information about the TV show  अभिनीत the बैंड , देखिए कल्पना मूवर्स ( tv श्रेणी  ) .
कल्पना मूवर्स is a बैंड formed in नई ऑरलियन्स  , Louisiana , in 2003 .
The  लाइनअप शामिल समृद्ध कॉलिन्स , स्कॉट durbin , डेव poche  , and Scott `` Smitty '' Smith .
Members  of the समूह यहूद longtime मित्रों  and neighbors .
The group started as a  television/music अवधारणा जिससे थी pitched to लोकल pbs affiliates in  New Orleans .
WLAE-TV was the first to take an interest in the group and later  introduced उन्हें to बेथ कोर्टनी , the अध्यक्ष & मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी  at Louisiana Public Broadcasting .
Soon after , LPB began airing  one-minute वीडियो उत्पादित by the कल्पना मूवर्स themselves  .
the मूवर्स निर्मित a sizable क्षेत्रीय following by सेटिंग शैक्षणिक गीतों  for kids to melodies and rhythms that adults appreciate as well .
वे बेची अधिक than 100,000 नक़ल of  their self-produced CDs and DVDs .
Their three indie CDs : `` Good Ideas , '' `` Calling All  मूवर्स , '' और `` आठ फीट '' साथ साथ उनके ग्रास जड़ें dvd `` हलचल it up '' have , संयुक्त , जीती चौदह नेशनल पुरस्कार , इससे ऐसे समूह as the नेशनल  Association of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice .
In early  2005 , डिज़्नी took सूचना , और initiated negotiations to add  the Movers to the company 's roster .
These were interrupted  in अगस्त जब the बाढ़ सुरक्षा designed और निर्मित by the फौज corps of इंजीनियर्स to  protect New Orleans failed .
The resulting floodwater claimed the band 's office , as well  as the घरों of कॉलिन्स , durbin और poche – लकिन the सौदे थी हस्ताक्षरित  in the spring of 2006 .
In 2008 , Walt Disney  रिकॉर्ड introduced the कल्पना मूवर्स ' म्यूज़िक to the स्वदेश साथ the रिलीज of the मूवर्स ' पहला nationally-released  CD , `` Juice Box Heroes . ''
In September 2008 , a 30-minute show featuring the group began airing on  the डिज़्नी चैनल 's प्रीस्कूल प्रोग्रामिंग ब्लाक ज्ञात as playhouse डिज़्नी , और फिलहाल  airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement , Disney Junior .
The Movers write and  perform सब the गीतों on उनके  show .
Moreover , the  कल्पना मूवर्स have प्राप्त नाजुक kudos लिये उनके सजीव कॉन्सर्ट प्रदर्शन  .
In October 2009 , the  कल्पना मूवर्स प्रारंभ the `` सजीव इससे the विचार गोदाम  Concert Tour 2009 '' .
Traveling from mid-October to  mid-december 2009 उनके सजीव प्रदर्शन शामिल लोट of उनके पसंदीदा  songs and dancing , as well as video appearances of Warehouse Mouse .
Beginning in  early-february 2011 और wrapping up in लेट may 2011 , the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रस्तुत उनके `` in  a Big Warehouse Concert Tour , '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ cities across North America .
From March to October 2012 , the Imagination Movers  toured उत्तर अमेरिका on उनके post-disney `` rock-o-matic '' दौरे  .
The show  कायम अनेक तत्व of the असली tv अवधारणा , ऐसे as an on-stage `` विचार आपात '' और अनेक सेट इससे उनके पुरानी कैटलॉग ; however , साथ the प्रस्थान of  Wendy Calio back to her native Hawaii , the character `` Nina '' , along with her musical numbers , is not present .
The tour promotes the Imagination Movers '  नई album/dvd रिलीज , `` rock-o-matic '' , जिससे सुविधाएँ सब नई  music from the band .
The album itself is produced independently of Disney  और रै a notably अधिक वयस्क , समकालीन rock-and-roll ध्वनि , हालांकि  still very appropriate for children .
Several performance dates were  स्थानांतरित to बाद in 2012 to लाभ इससे the increased एक्सपोज़र of the कल्पना मूवर्स tv दिखाएँ अभी playing  daily on Disney Junior .
The platypus (  ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी ऑस्ट्रेलिया , सहित  Tasmania .
Together with the four species of echidna  , it is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes , the तभी स्तनधारियों कि lay अंडे बजाय of giving  birth .
It is the sole living representative of  इसके परिवार ( ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus ) , हालांकि a क्रमांक  of related species have been found in the fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed  , बीवर -tailed , otter -footed स्तनधारी मनोरथ यूरोपीय naturalists जब वे पहला encountered it , साथ कुछ considering  it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of the few venomous mammals , the  पुरूष platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर कि delivers a venom सक्षम  of causing severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and iconic symbol  of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared as a शुभंकर at नेशनल कार्यक्रम और is प्रदर्शित on the रिवर्स of इसके 20-cent सिक्का  .
The platypus is  the एनिमल emblem of the राज्य of नई दक्षिण वेल्स  .
Until the early 20th century , it was hunted for its fur  , लकिन it is अभी सुरक्षित throughout इसके  range .
Although captive  प्रजनन programmes have था तभी सीमित कामयाबी और the platypus is vulnerable  to the effects of pollution , it is not under any immediate threat .
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras ( , from chupar `` to suck  '' और cabra `` बकरी '' , वस्तुतः `` बकरी चूषक '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit भाग of the americas  .
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto Rico ( where these sightings were first  reported ) , मैक्सिको , और the संयुक्त राज्य , विशेषकर in the latter  's Latin American communities .
The name comes from the animal 's reported  आदत of attacking और पीने the रक्त of पशुधन  , especially goats .
शारीरिक descriptions of the प्राणी  vary .
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto Rico , and have since been reported as far north as Maine , and as  दूर दक्षिण as चिली , और भी होने spotted बाहर the americas in देशों जैसे रूस और the  Philippines .
It is supposedly a heavy creature , the size of a  छोटी भालू , साथ a पंक्ति of कांटे reaching इससे the गर्दन to the  base of the tail .
Sighting  रिपोर्ट्स of the chupacabra have महरूम disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking प्रमाण , जबकि सबसे रिपोर्ट्स in उत्तरी मैक्सिको  and the southern United States have been verified as canids afflicted by mange .
Biologists and wildlife management  officials दृश्य the chupacabra as a समकालीन  legend .
The North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) is an agreement  हस्ताक्षरित by कनाडा , मैक्सिको , और the संयुक्त राज्य , बनाना a trilateral व्यापार  bloc in North America .
The agreement  आए into फ़ोर्स on जनवरी 1  , 1994 .
It  superseded the canada–united राज्य फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध between  the U.S. , Canada , and Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements  : the उत्तर अमरीकी अनुबंध on पर्यावरणीय सहयोग ( naaec ) और the उत्तर अमरीकी  Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ) .
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind that expresses  संतोष साथ the थर्मल पर्यावरण और is assessed by subjective मूल्यांकन ( ansi / ashrae  Standard 55 ) .
maintaining इस मानक of थर्मल सुकून लिये occupants of इमारतें or अन्य enclosures  is one of the important goals of HVAC ( heating , ventilation , and air conditioning ) design engineers .
The Predicted Mean  vote ( pmv ) मॉडल स्टैंड among the सबसे पहचाना थर्मल सुकून  models .
It was  विकसित using सिद्धान्त of ऊष्मा संतुलन और प्रायोगिक आंकड़ा एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु कक्ष  under steady state conditions .
Because the PMV model was derived from data collected in  a नियंत्रित जलवायु , it is नहीं उपयुक्त लिये अनुप्रयोग in naturally  ventilated spaces which often have high levels of air movement .
This shortcoming motivated the development of a family of empirical statistical models of  थर्मल सुकून in naturally हवादार स्पेसेस ज्ञात as अनुकूली मॉडल  .
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting with their  पर्यावरण , और controlling उनके थर्मल सुकून by अर्थात् of कपडे or window-opening  and closing .
This is in contrast to thermal comfort in sealed  इमारतें , in जिससे occupants अनुभव the पर्यावरण  passively .
थर्मल सुकून is प्रभावित by ऊष्मा conduction , संवहन  , radiation , and evaporative heat loss .
Thermal comfort is maintained when the heat generated by human  चयापचय is अनुमत to dissipate , यूँ maintaining थर्मल  equilibrium with the surroundings .
It has been  long पहचाना कि the सनसनी of अहसास  hot or cold is not just dependent on air temperature alone .
Thermal  सुकून calculations according to ansi/ashrae मानक 55 can be freely performed साथ  the CBE Thermal Comfort Tool for ASHRAE-55 .
Durante degli Alighieri , simply referred to  as दांते ( , ; ; c. 1265–1321 ) , थी a प्रमुख इतालवी कवि of the मध्य  Ages .
His Divine Comedy ,  originally पुकारा ' और बाद पुकारा ' by boccaccio , is widely माना the महानतम  literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature .
In Italy he is known as ' ( ``  the परम् कवि '' ) or बस '  .
He , Petrarch and Boccaccio are also known as `` the  तीन स्रोतों '' or `` the तीन crowns  '' .
Dante is also called the  `` पिता of the इतालवी भाषा  '' .
मुख्यालय ( कोबे  , Japan )
( )  is a टायर और रबर कम्पनी आधारित  in Japan .
it is भाग of the  Sumitomo Group .
The company traces its origins  to 1909 , जब the sumitomo समूह बना an निवेश in dunlop जापानी , the newly formed जापानी subsidiary  of the British company Dunlop Rubber .
Over the years Sumitomo and  dunlop विकसित a बंद कारोबार  relationship , and in 1963 the Sumitomo Group acquired control of Dunlop Japan and renamed it Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd .
In 1985 , when Dunlop Rubber was taken over by BTR  पीएलसी , the कम्पनी acquired the ऑटोमोबाइल टायर एसेट of dunlop , सहित the सही to उपयोग the dunlop ब्रांड on  automobile tires .
the अधिग्रहण किया नहीं शामिल the us और ऑस्ट्रेलियाई व्यवसायों , जिससे यहूद separately स्वामित्व , लकिन in 1986 sumitomo  also acquired the Dunlop Tire Corporation of the US from its management .
In 1997 , Sumitomo formed a joint  venture साथ goodyear टायर और रबर कम्पनी , by जिससे goodyear और sumitomo सहमत to manufacture टायर लिये प्रत्येक  other 's markets , including Dunlop branded tires .
As part of the agreement  , goodyear acquired 75 % रूचि in dunlop टायर , the uk कम्पनी जिससे sumitomo था formed  , and in Dunlop Tire Corporation .
Goodyear and  sumitomo भी बना निवेश  in each other .
Today , the company  makes a चौड़ी दायरा of रबर आधारित उत्पाद , सहित ऑटोमोबाइल टायर , गोल्फ़  balls and tennis balls .
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware integrated development environments ( IDE ) developed by  microsoft कि हैं lightweight संस्करण of the microsoft विज़ुअल स्टुडियो उत्पाद लकीर  .
Express Editions  यहूद conceived शुरूआत साथ विज़ुअल स्टुडियो  2005 .
The idea of Express editions is to provide  streamlined , easy-to-use और easy-to-learn ides लिये उपयोक्ता अन्य than पेशेवर तन्त्र डेवलपर , ऐसे as hobbyists और विद्यार्थी  .
The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems of Europe stretching approximately across eight  अल्पाइन देशों इससे ऑस्ट्रिया और स्लोवेनियाई in the ईस्ट , स्विट्ज़रलैंड , liechtenstein , जर्मनी , फ़्रांस to the वेस्ट और इटली और  Monaco to the south .
The  kyu यहूद formed over सैंकड़ों of लाखो of सालो as the अफ़्रीकी और यूरेशियाई  tectonic plates collided .
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in marine sedimentary  रॉक्स उठती by thrusting और फोल्डिंग into ऊँची पहाड़ चोटियों ऐसे as मोंट blanc और the matterhorn  .
Mont Blanc spans the  french–italian किनारा , और at is the उच्चतम पहाड़  in the Alps .
The Alpine region area contains  अनेक चोटियों उच्चतर than , ज्ञात as the  `` four-thousanders `` .
The altitude and size of the  दायरा affects the जलवायु in यूरोपीय ; in the kyu वर्षण स्तर  vary greatly and climatic conditions consist of distinct zones .
Wildlife  ऐसे as ibex सजीव in the उच्चतर चोटियों to elevations of , और पौधे ऐसे as edelweiss grow in  rocky areas in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations .
Evidence of human habitation in the  ऐल्प्स goes वापस to the paleolithic era .
A mummified man ,  संकल्पित to be 5,000 सालो बूढ़ा , थी खोजा on a हिमानी at the austrian–italian  border in 1991 .
By the 6th century BC ,  the सेल्टिक la tène संस्कृति थी खूब स्थापित  .
Hannibal may have crossed  the ऐल्प्स साथ a झुंड of हाथियों , और the romans था settlements in  the region .
In 1800  नेपोलियन crossed एक of the पहाड़  passes with an army of 40,000 .
The 18th and 19th centuries saw an  influx of naturalists , लेखक , और कलाकारों , in particular the romantics , followed by the सुनहरी  age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks .
In World  युद्ध ii the तीसरा reich invaded the अल्पाइन देशों , साथ the एक्सेप्शन of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein ; एडोल्फ हिटलर रखा  a base of operation in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war .
The  अल्पाइन प्रदेश रै a दमदार सांस्कृतिक  identity .
The traditional culture of farming , cheesemaking , and woodworking still exists in Alpine villages , although the tourist industry began to grow early in the 20th  सदी और विस्तारित greatly बाद संसार युद्ध ii to become the प्रबल उद्योग by the समाप्त of the सदी  .
The Winter Olympic Games have been  hosted in the स्विस , फ्रेंच , इतालवी , आस्ट्रिया और जर्मनी ऐल्प्स .
At  उपस्थित the प्रदेश is घर to 14 लाख लोगों और  has 120 million annual visitors .
Lois Patrice Griffin ( née Pewterschmidt )  is a अक्षर इससे the एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  Family Guy .
She is voiced by  लेखक एलेक्स borstein और पहला appeared on टेलीविज़न , साथ साथ the बाकी of the परिवार in the 15-minute  short on December 20 , 1998 .
Lois was  निर्मित और designed by श्रेणी निर्माता सेठ macfarlane  .
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox  प्रसारण कम्पनी आधारित on लैरी और स्टीव , a छोटी बना by macfarlane जिससे प्रदर्शित a middle-aged  character named Larry and an intellectual dog , Steve .
After the pilot was given the green  लाइट , the griffin परिवार appeared on the एपीसोड `` मौत रै a छाया `` .
Lois is  the माँ of the griffin  family .
With her husband Peter , she  रै था तीन children : मेग , क्रिस  , and Stewie .
Lois is  प्रायः portrayed as a stereotypical टेलीविज़न माँ , despite उसके admitting to होने a  drug user , a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac .
Lois has also had several affairs , one  of जिससे allegedly resulted in the धारणा of  Meg .
She has appeared in other media relating to Family Guy—including a  वीडियो खेल , commercials और books—and प्रेरित an  entire line of merchandise .
Lois 's  distinctive नई यॉर्क एक्सेंट originated इससे a अक्षर in a स्टेज दिखाएँ कि एलेक्स borstein था performed in , जिससे थी largely प्रेरित by a सापेक्ष  who grew up on Long Island , New York .
Family  हस्तांतरण of बास्क भाषा ( बास्क  as initial language )
प्रतिशत of विद्यार्थी पंजीकृत in  Basque language schools ( 2000–2005 ) .
Location of the  basque-language प्रांतों भीतर स्पेन और फ़्रांस
Basque ( endonym : , ) is the ancestral language of the Basque  लोगों , जो inhabit the बास्क देश , a प्रदेश spanning an क्षेत्रफल in northeastern स्पेन और southwestern फ़्रांस  .
It is spoken by  27 % of basques in सब territories ( 714,136  out of 2,648,998 ) .
Of these , 663,035  सजीव in the स्पेनी भाग of the बास्क देश और the बाकी 51,100  live in the French part .
In academic  चर्चाएँ of the वितरण of बास्क in स्पेन और फ़्रांस , it is प्रथागत to  refer to three ancient provinces in France and four Spanish provinces .
Native  अध्यक्षों हैं concentrated in a संलग्न क्षेत्रफल सहित भाग of the स्पेनी autonomous समुदायों  of the Basque Country and Navarre and in the western half of the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques .
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic Basque Country incorporating the traditional Spanish provinces of  biscay , gipuzkoa , और álava , जिससे retain उनके अस्तित्व as politico-administrative  divisions .
These provinces and many areas of Navarre are heavily populated by ethnic Basques , but Basque was , at least until the 1990s , not spoken as a native language in  सबसे of álava , पश्चिमी भाग of biscay और सेंट्रल और दक्षिणी क्षेत्रों of नावारा , either क्युकी it था महरूम replaced by स्पेनी साथ the सदियां , in कुछ क्षेत्रों , or क्युकी it था never महरूम बोला वहीँ , in अन्य  areas .
In southwestern France , the ancient Basque-populated  प्रांतों यहूद labourd , निम्नतर नावारा , और soule  .
They and other regions were  संचित into a सिंगल département in 1790 अंतर्गत the नाम basses-pyrénées  , a name which persisted until 1970 .
A standardized form of the Basque  भाषा , पुकारा euskara batua , थी विकसित by the बास्क भाषा अकादमी in the लेट  1960s .
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque language could be used—and easily understood by all Basque  speakers—in औपचारिक परिस्थितियों ( शिक्षा , द्रव्यमान मीडिया , साहित्य ) ,  and this is its main use today .
The role of this standard  बास्क भाषा depends on the भाषाई शैक्षणिक मॉडल of प्रत्येक प्रदेश और प्रत्येक  school .
In most  क्षेत्रों of the स्पेनी बास्क देश , the शैक्षणिक मॉडल d , जहाँ सब विषय हैं सिखाया in बास्क , मगर ``  Spanish language and literature '' ( which is taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model .
In France , the Basque language school Seaska and the association for a bilingual ( Basque and  फ्रेंच ) schooling ikasbi मिलें a चौड़ी दायरा of बास्क भाषा शैक्षणिक needs up to the छठे रूप , जबकि प्रायः struggling to surmount  financial and administrative constraints .
Apart from this standardized version , there are five main  बास्क dialects : bizkaian , gipuzkoan , और अपर navarrese in स्पेन , और navarrese–lapurdian और  Zuberoan ( in France ) .
Although they take their names from the mentioned  ऐतिहासिक प्रांतों , the dialect सीमाएँ हैं नहीं congruent साथ प्रांत  boundaries .
The President , Directors and Company , of the Bank of the  संयुक्त राज्य , commonly ज्ञात as the पहला बैंको of the संयुक्त राज्य , थी a सेंट्रल बैंको  , chartered for a term of twenty years , by the United States Congress on February 25 , 1791 .
स्थापना of the बैंको थी शामिल in a three-part विस्तार of संघीय फिस्कल और मौद्रिक शक्ति ( साथ साथ a संघीय मिंट  and excise taxes ) championed by Alexander Hamilton , first Secretary of the Treasury .
Hamilton believed a central bank was necessary to stabilize and  improve the स्वदेश 's क्रेडिट , और to improve हैंडलिंग of the वित्तीय कारोबार of the संयुक्त राज्य  government under the newly enacted Constitution .
Officially proposed to the first  सत्र of the पहला कॉंग्रेस in 1790 , हैमिल्टन 's बैंको faced फैली  resistance from opponents of increased federal power .
Secretary of State  थामस जेफरसन और जेम्स मैडिसन led the विपक्ष , जिससे claimed कि the बैंको थी असंवैधानिक , और कि it benefited  merchants and investors at the expense of the majority of the population .
The First Bank  भवन is अभी a नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क स्तिथ in फिलाडेल्फिया , पेन्सिलवेनिया भीतर स्वतंत्रता  National Historical Park .
James Wesley Marsters (  born अगस्त 20 , 1962 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता और  musician .
Marsters first came to the  ध्यान of the सामान्य पब्लिक playing the लोकप्रिय अक्षर  Spike , a platinum-blond yobbish English vampire in the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and its spin-off series , Angel , from 1997 to 2004 .
Since then , he has gone on to play other science fiction roles , such as the  एलियन supervillain brainiac on the सुपरमैन -inspired श्रेणी smallville , the omnisexual समय मुसाफ़िर कप्तान जॉन हार्ट  in British science-fiction show Torchwood and terrorist Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica .
Marsters  appeared in a supporting भूमिका in the 2007  movie P.S .
I Love You and as  the प्रमुख विपक्षी , piccolo , in the 2009 काल्पनिक  adventure film Dragonball Evolution .
he appeared as a पुनरावर्ती अक्षर in the पहला  season of the revival of Hawaii 5-0 .
In molecular biology , human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG )  is a हार्मोन उत्पादित by the निषेचित अंडा बाद धारणा  .
Later  दौरान गर्भावस्था it is बना by the विकासशील placenta , और बाद by  the placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone  ; इसलिए , elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी is नहीं गर्भवती can सीसे  to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not known  whether इस उत्पादन is a contributing कारण  or an effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue  of hcg , ज्ञात as luteinizing हार्मोन ( lh ) , is उत्पादित in the pituitary ग्रंथि of  males and females of all ages .
,  the एफडीए रै निषिद्ध the बिक्री of `` होम्योपैथिक '' और over the  counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter , known by  उसके स्टेज नाम बेयोंस ( ; born सितंबर 4 , 1981 ) , is an अमरीकी सिंगर ,  songwriter , dancer , and actress .
Born and raised in Houston , Texas , she performed in singing  और नाचना प्रतियोगिताओं as a चाइल्ड पहले forming in 1990 a समूह साथ केली rowland और latavia  Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child .
Once  हस्ताक्षरित to कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड , the लड़कियों  subsequently became one of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time .
The group was plagued  by आतंरिक विरोध और विधिक turmoil और नॉलेस suffered इससे अवसाद कि lasted  for a number of years .
During the group 's  अंतराल , नॉलेस released उसके डेब्यू सोलो एल्बम dangerously in प्रेम ( 2003 ) , जिससे अर्जित उसके पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार और रै बेची a कुल  of 4.9 million copies in the US alone .
It spawned Billboard  क्रमांक एक singles `` क्रेजी in प्रेम , '' माना by vh1 to be the `` महानतम सोंग of the 00 's , '' और ``  Baby Boy . ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005 , Knowles 's second solo  एल्बम b'day ( 2006 ) contained the शीर्ष पाँच singles `` déjà vu `` , `` अपूरणीय `` , और ``  Beautiful Liar `` .
Her  प्रदर्शन in dreamgirls (  2006 ) earned her two Golden Globe nominations .
Knowles '  कार्य playing etta जेम्स in कि  film inspired her subsequent album I Am ...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned hits  `` if i यहूद a लड़के `` , `` सिंगल महिलाओं ( put a रिंग on it ) `` , `` हेलो `` ,  and `` Sweet Dreams `` .
The album also helped  नॉलेस earn छह grammys in 2010 , तोड़कर the रिकार्ड लिये सबसे ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  won by a female artist in one night .
उसके चौथी एल्बम 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards परंपरागत r  & B and became her fourth consecutive number one album on the Billboard 200 .
In  जनवरी 2012 , नॉलेस दिया जनम to बेटी ब्लू आइवी कार्टर  , her first child with husband Jay-Z .
Knowles has sold over 13  लाख एल्बम in the us और 118 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी ( as खूब as a further 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड साथ नियति 's चाइल्ड ) , और is एक of the best-selling  music artists of all time .
The Recording Industry Association of America  ( riaa ) पहचाना नॉलेस as the शीर्ष certified कलाकार of the 2000s  .
In  2009 , बिलबोर्ड नामित उसके the शीर्ष रेडियो गीतों कलाकार of the दशक और  ranked her the Top Female Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade .
Beyoncé Knowles is the most nominated woman in Grammy Award history ,  receiving 17 पुरस्कार ; अन्य accolades शामिल 12 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार , 7 बिलबोर्ड पुरस्कार सहित a  Millennium Award , and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child .
`` Angry All the Time '' is the title of a  सोंग लिखा by ब्रूस robison और पहला अंकित on उसके 1998 एल्बम लपेटा  .
It was  बाद covered by टिम mcgraw साथ अतिथि vocalist  Faith Hill .
Released in July  2001 , mcgraw 's संस्करण थी the दूसरी सिंगल इससे mcgraw 's नियत इस  Circus Down album .
The song reached  क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot देश singles & ट्रैक्स ( अभी  Hot Country Songs ) charts .
Dear John  is a 2010 अमरीकी रोमांटिक नाटक  - war film starring Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum .
It was released  theatrically in उत्तर अमेरिका on फ़रवरी 5  , 2010 .
The film was directed by Lasse Hallström , and it is  an अनुकूलन of निकोलस स्पार्क्स 's अनोखा of the वही नाम  .
It follows the life of a soldier (  चेनिंग टैटम ) बाद he जलप्रपात in प्रेम साथ a यंग स्त्री ( अमांडा seyfried  ) .
They decide to exchange letters  to प्रत्येक अन्य बाद he is तैनात  to the war .
The movie was  फिल्माया in 2009 in चार्ल्सटन , दक्षिण कैरोलिना .
Despite receiving  ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ , the फिल्मी बना a दमदार बक्सा दफ्तर प्रदर्शन , knocking बंद अवतार बाद सात सप्ताहांत in पहला प्लेस  and grossing a total of $ 114,977,104 worldwide .
The  फिल्मी थी released on may 25 , 2010 on  DVD and Blu-ray .
These are  सूचियाँ of the व्यस्ततम एयरपोर्ट in the  United States .
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र is the व्यस्ततम सिंगल विमानक्षेत्र in the संयुक्त  States .
however , सब of the नई यॉर्क नगर महानगर क्षेत्रफल 's एयरपोर्ट combine to बनाएँ the largest विमानक्षेत्र  system in the United States , second in the world in terms of passenger traffic , and first in the world in terms of total flight operations .
Dora the Explorer is an American animated  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी निर्मित by क्रिस gifford , वैलेरी  Walsh , and Eric Weiner .
Dora the Explorer  became a नियमित श्रेणी in 2000  .
The show is  carried on the निकलोडियन केबल टेलीविज़न संजाल , सहित  the associated Nick Jr. channel .
It  aired on सीबीएस जबतक सितंबर  2006 .
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired as part of a Nick en español block on NBC Universal -owned Telemundo  through सितंबर 2006 ; चूंकि अप्रैल 2008 , इस संस्करण of the कार्यक्रम रै महरूम carried on univision as भाग of the planeta u ब्लाक  .
सांता fe ( ; ( tewa : ogha po'oge , ) )  is the capital of the U.S. state of New Mexico .
It is the  fourth-largest नगर in the राज्य  and is the seat of .
Santa Fe (  अर्थ “holy faith” in स्पेनी  ) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 census .
It is the principal city of a  महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल जिससे encompasses सब of सांता fe काउंटी और is भाग of the larger  Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area .
The city’s full name when founded was La Villa Real de la Santa Fé de San Francisco de Asís ( “The Royal Town  of the पावन आस्था of st. फ्रांसिस of assisi”  ) .
Pepsi  ( stylized in लोअरकेस as पेप्सी , formerly stylized in अपरकेस as पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड  soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo .
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink , it was  renamed as pepsi-cola on अगस्त 28 , 1898 , तब to पेप्सी in 1961  .
1765 broadside
The Sons of Liberty was a group consisting of American  देशप्रेमी कि originated in the pre-independence उत्तर अमरीकी अंग्रेजों colonies  .
The group was  formed to protect the अधिकारों of the colonists और to लो to the  streets against the taxes by the British government .
वे हैं बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये undertaking the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी in 1773 , जिससे led to the असहनीय  Acts ( an intense crackdown by the British government ) , and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots .
ओसाका  castle
is a city in the Kansai region of  जापानी 's प्रमुख द्वीप of होन्शू , a designated नगर अंतर्गत the लोकल स्वायत्तता विधि , the पूंजी नगर of ओसाका प्रीफ़ेक्चर और भी the largest भाग of the keihanshin metropolis  , which comprises three major cities of Japan , Kyoto , Osaka and Kobe .
स्तिथ at the मुँह of the yodo नदी on ओसाका खाड़ी , ओसाका is जापानी 's तीसरा largest  city by population after Tokyo ( special wards ) and Yokohama .
Keihanshin is  the दूसरी largest महानगर क्षेत्रफल in जापानी by जनसांख्यिकी और एक of the largest महानगर क्षेत्रों अत्यधिक क्रमित in the संसार , साथ nearly 19 लाख लोगों , और by जीडीपी the  second largest area in Japan and the seventh largest area in the world .
Historically the commercial center of Japan , Osaka  कृत्यों as एक of the कमांड centers  for the Japanese economy .
The ratio between daytime and night time  जनसांख्यिकी is 141 % , the उच्चतम in जापानी , highlighting इसके औकात as an आर्थिक  center .
Its nighttime population is 2.6 million , the third in the country , but in daytime the population surges to 3.7 million ,  दूसरी तभी बाद टोकियो ( combining the खास wards of टोकियो , जिससे is नहीं a सिंगल incorporated नगर , लिये सांख्यिकीय उद्देश्य ; देखिए the टोकियो आलेख लिये अधिक सूचना on the परिभाषा  and makeup of Tokyo ) .
Osaka used to be referred to as the in feudal Edo  काल क्युकी it थी the केन्द्र of व्यापार लिये राइस , बनाना the पहला आधुनिक futures एक्सचेंज  market in the world .
The Little Mermaid is a 1989  अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक फिल्मी उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी विशेषता एनिमेशन  and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
Based on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen , The Little  मरमेड tells the स्टोरी of a खूबसूरत मरमेड जो सपनो of  becoming human .
Written , directed , and produced by Ron Clements and John Musker , with music by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman , the film features the voices Jodi Benson , Christopher Daniel Barnes , Pat  कैरल , सैमुएल E. राइट , जेसन मारिन , केनेथ मंगल  , Buddy Hacket , and Rene Auberjonois .
The 28th film in  the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड क्लासिक श्रेणी , the छोटी मरमेड थी released to थिएटर on नवम्बर 14 , 1989 to largely धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ , garnering $ 84 लाख at the बक्सा दफ्तर दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज  , and $ 211 million in total lifetime gross .
After the success of the 1988 Disney /  amblin फिल्मी जो framed रोजर खरगोश , the छोटी मरमेड is दिए क्रेडिट लिये श्वास जीवन वापस into the आर्ट of डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड विशेषता films  after a string of critical or commercial failures produced by Disney that dated back to the early 1970s .
It also  चिह्नित the प्रारंभ of the era ज्ञात as the  Disney Renaissance .
A stage adaptation of the  फिल्मी साथ a किताब by डग राइट और अतिरिक्त गीतों by एलन menken और नई गीतों  Glenn Slater opened in Denver in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10 , 2008 .
alt=Close-up photo of a  मेटल चमचा भर साथ a viscous , साफ  purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term  लिये a recreational ड्रग लोकप्रिय in the हिप हॉप जातियाँ in the दक्षिणी  United States , originating in Houston , Texas .
Its main ingredient is  नुस्खा -strength खांसी सिरप containing codeine  and promethazine .
Cough syrup is typically mixed with ingredients such as  sprite नरम पेय or पहाड़ ओस और टुकड़े of प्रसन्न  Rancher candy .
The purplish hue  of जामुनी पिया आता इससे dyes in  the cough syrup .
There are  numerous कठबोली शर्तें लिये जामुनी पिया , सहित sizzurp , झुकना , सिरप ,  drank , barre , purple jelly , Texas tea , and Tsikuni .
First/given , middle ,  और last/family/surname आरेख साथ J. S. बच as उदाहरण  .
J. S. Bach shared his  दिए नाम साथ छह तात्कालिक परिवार सदस्यों और अनेक  extended family members .
He shared his  परिवार नाम साथ सबसे परिवार सदस्यों  .
A given name , in Western contexts often referred to as a first name ,  is a निजी नाम कि specifies और differentiates between सदस्यों of a समूह of individuals , विशेषकर in a परिवार ,  all of whose members usually share the same family name ( surname ) .
A given name is purposefully given , usually by a  चाइल्ड 's अभिभावक at or निकट जनम , in कंट्रास्ट to an inherited एक ऐसे  as a family name .
A given  नाम is sometimes legally बदला through  a name change .
Given names are often  प्रयुक्त in a परिचित और दोस्ताना manner in अनौपचारिक  situations .
In more formal  परिस्थितियों the उपनाम is प्रयुक्त बजाय , जबतक it is जरुरी  to distinguish between people with the same surname .
The idiom `` on a first-name  आधार '' ( or `` on first-name शर्तें '' ) alludes to  the familiarity of addressing another by a given name .
The western style of having both a family name (  उपनाम ) और a दिए नाम is दूर इससे सार्वभौमिक  .
In many countries it is common for ordinary  लोगों to have तभी एक नाम ( a  mononym ) .
Hydrochloric acid is a  साफ , colourless समाधान of हाइड्रोजन  chloride ( H Cl ) in water .
It  is a अत्यधिक क्षयकारी , दमदार खनिज एसिड साथ  many industrial uses .
हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड is मिला naturally in gastric  acid .
Historically  पुकारा muriatic एसिड , और आत्माओं of नमक , हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड थी उत्पादित इससे vitriol  ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt .
It first appeared during the Renaissance , and then it was used by  chemists ऐसे as glauber , प्रीस्टलि और डेवी in उनके वैज्ञानिक शोध  .
With major production starting  in the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति , हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड is प्रयुक्त in the रासायनिक उद्योग as a  chemical reagent in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic , and MDI / TDI for polyurethane .
It has numerous smaller-scale applications , including  household सफ़ाई , उत्पादन of जिलेटिन और अन्य खाना एडिटिव , descaling , और चमड़े  processing .
परिचय 20 लाख टन of हाइड्रोक्लोरिक  acid are produced annually .
Wheat (  triticum spp . ) is a खाद्यान्न अनाज , originally इससे the  Levant region of the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands , but now cultivated worldwide .
In 2010 , world production of wheat was  651 लाख टन , बनाना it the तीसरा most-produced खाद्यान्न बाद मक्का ( 844 लाख टन  ) and rice ( 672 million tons ) .
Wheat was the second  most-produced खाद्यान्न in 2009 ; संसार उत्पादन in कि साल थी 682 लाख टन  , after maize ( 817 million tons ) , and with rice as a close third ( 679 million tons ) .
This grain is grown on more  जमीन क्षेत्रफल than कोई अन्य वाणिज्यिक खाना .
World  व्यापार in गेहूं is वृहद than लिये सब  other crops combined .
Globally  , गेहूं is the अग्रणी सोर्स of सब्ज़ी प्रोटीन in इंसान खाना , having a उच्चतर प्रोटीन  content than soybeans or the other major cereals , maize ( corn ) or rice .
In terms of total production tonnages used for food , it is currently  दूसरी to राइस as the प्रमुख इंसान खाना क्रॉप और ahead of मक्का , बाद allowing  for maize 's more extensive use in animal feeds .
Wheat was a key factor enabling the  emergence of city-based समाजों at the प्रारंभ of सभ्यता क्युकी it थी एक of the पहला फसलों कि could be easily cultivated on a विशाल स्केल , और था  the additional advantage of yielding a harvest that provides long-term storage of food .
Wheat contributed to the  emergence of city-states in the fertile crescent , सहित the  Babylonian and Assyrian empires .
Wheat grain is a staple food used to make flour for leavened , flat and steamed breads , biscuits , cookies , cakes , breakfast cereal , pasta ,  नूडल्स , couscous और लिये fermentation to मेक बियर , अन्य alcoholic पेय , or  biofuel .
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop  लिये पशुधन , और इसके स्ट्रॉ can be प्रयुक्त as a निर्माण सामग्री लिये roofing फूस  .
The whole grain can be milled to  छोड़ बस the भ्रूणपोष लिये श्वेत आटा  .
the by-products of इस हैं  bran and germ .
The whole grain is a concentrated source of vitamins , minerals ,  और प्रोटीन , जबकि the परिष्कृत अनाज is ज़्यादातर  starch .
मुद्रण
to प्रकाशित is to मेक सामग्री उपलब्धियाँ  to the general public .
जबकि विशिष्ट उपयोग of the पद may vary among देशों , it is प्रायः लागू to टेक्स्ट , बिंब , or अन्य audio-visual सामग्री on कोई  traditional medium , including paper ( newspapers , magazines , catalogs , etc . ) .
The  शब्द प्रकाशन अर्थात् the अधिनियम of प्रकाशन , और भी refers  to any printed copies .
Melissa & Joey is an ABC  परिवार असली टेलीविज़न श्रेणी अभिनीत मेलिसा जोन  Hart and Joey Lawrence .
it पहला aired on एबीसी परिवार  on August 17 , 2010 .
The series follows local politician Mel Burke ( Melissa Joan Hart ) and  जो longo ( जॉय लॉरेंस ) , जिसको mel hires to dekh बाद उसके भांजी और भतीजे बाद a  Ponzi scheme leaves him broke .
The series was renewed by  एबीसी परिवार लिये a दूसरी ऋतु of पंद्रह एपीसोड , जिससे began airing on may  30 , 2012 and ended on August 29 , 2012 .
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's #  1 telecast at 8 o'clock आरपार निशाना ऑडियंस 18–34 , 18–49 और 12–34 जनसांख्यिकी  .
On August 17 , 2012 , ABC Family  नवीनीकृत मेलिसा & जॉय लिये a तीसरा ऋतु ,  set to premiere in spring 2013 .
The Dharma wheel , often  प्रयुक्त to represent the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold  Path
The Noble Eightfold Path ( , ) is one of the principal teachings of the Buddha , who described  it as the रास्ता अग्रणी to the cessation of कष्ट ( dukkha ) और the उपलब्धि of self-awakening  .
It is used to develop insight into the  सच्चा प्रकृति of phenomena ( or वास्तविकता ) और to eradicate  greed , hatred , and delusion .
The Noble Eightfold  पाथ is the चौथी of the बुद्ध 's चार प्रतिष्ठित सच्चाई ; the पहला तत्व of the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold  Path is , in turn , an understanding of the Four Noble Truths .
It is also known  as the मध्य पाथ or मध्य रास्ता  .
सब आठ तत्व of the पाथ शुरू साथ the शब्द `` सही '' , जिससे translates the  word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ) .
These  denote पूर्णता , एकजुटता , और coherence , और can भी सुझाएँ  the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal '' .
'Samma ' is also  अनूदित as `` wholesome '' , `` हिकमत '' और ``  skillful '' .
In Buddhist symbolism , the Noble Eightfold Path is often  represented by अर्थात् of the धर्मं व्हील ( dharmachakra ) , जिनकी आठ तीलियां represent  the eight elements of the path .
The Grammy  पुरस्कार लिये सोंग of the साल is an सम्मान प्रस्तुत at the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , a रस्म  that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards .
Awards in several categories are distributed annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts  और sciences of the संयुक्त राज्य to `` सम्मान कलाकारी उपलब्धि , तकनीकी proficiency और overall excellence in the रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग  , without regard to album sales or chart position . ''
अर्थशास्त्र is the सोशल विज्ञान कि analyzes  the production , distribution , and consumption of goods and services .
The term economics comes from the Ancient Greek  ( ' , `` प्रबन्धन of a household , प्रशासन '' ) इससे ( ' , `` हाउस '' ) + ( ' , `` कस्टम  '' or `` law '' ) , hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) '' .
Political economy was the earlier name for the subject , but economists in the late 19th  सदी सुझाया `` अर्थशास्त्र '' as a shorter पद लिये `` आर्थिक विज्ञान '' कि भी avoided a सीमित political-interest connotation और as समान in रूप to `` गणित `` , `` आचार  '' , and so forth .
A focus of the subject is how economic agents  व्यवहार or interact और कैसा economies कार्य  .
Consistent with this , a primary  textbook भेद is between microeconomics और  macroeconomics .
Microeconomics examines the behavior of basic elements  in the अर्थव्यवस्था , सहित व्यक्तिगत एजेंटों ( ऐसे as households और firms or as खरीदार और विक्रेता  ) and markets , and their interactions .
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire  अर्थव्यवस्था और मुद्दे affecting it , सहित बेरोजगारी , महंगाई , आर्थिक विकास , और मौद्रिक और  fiscal policy .
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing `` what is '' ) and normative economics ( advocating `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ; and between mainstream economics ( more  `` परंपरागत '' और dealing साथ the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium नेक्सस '' ) और शास्त अर्थशास्त्र  ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ) .
Economic analysis may be applied throughout society , as in business , finance ,  स्वास्थ्य परवाह , और सरकारी , लकिन भी to ऐसे विविध विषय as अपराधों , शिक्षा , the परिवार , विधि , राजनीती , धर्म ,  social institutions , war , and science .
At  the फेरे of the 21st सदी , the expanding डोमेन of अर्थशास्त्र in the सोशल  sciences has been described as economic imperialism .
An  increasing क्रमांक of अर्थशास्त्रियों have पुकारा लिये increased जोर on पर्यावरणीय स्थिरता ; इस क्षेत्रफल of शोध is ज्ञात  as Ecological economics .
This is a list of Schedule IV drugs under  the नियंत्रित substances अधिनियम लिये the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Required findings for  दवाएँ to be लगाई in इस schedule:
The drug or other substance has a low  संभावित लिये गाली सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances in अनुसूची  III .
The drug or other substance has  a फिलहाल स्वीकृत चिकित्सा उपयोग in उपचार in the संयुक्त  States .
गाली of the ड्रग or अन्य पदार्थ may सीसे to सीमित  physical dependence or psychological dependence relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III .
The  पूरा सूची of अनुसूची iv दवाएँ हैं as  follows .
The  प्रशासनिक नियंत्रित substances  Code Number for each drug is included .
US county  household मध्य आय  2009 .
Median US  household आय , 2001-2011
Household income is a measure  commonly प्रयुक्त by the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी  and private institutions .
Each household is  measured by the आय of प्रत्येक निवासी over the आयु  of 15 .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance , disability payments , child  support भुगतान प्राप्त , नियमित rental रसीदें , as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार , निवेश , or अन्य kinds of  income received routinely .
While  inflation-adjusted ( `` रियल '' ) household आय था महरूम increasing लगभग प्रत्येक साल  from 1945 to 1999 , it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median  household आय गिरी इससे $ 51,144 in 2010 to  $ 50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United  राज्य , अर्थ households जीना on कम than $ 2 प्रति दिन पहले सरकारी लाभ , doubled इससे 1996 to 1.5 लाख households  in 2011 , including 2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the  household लिये उनके आय to be माना भाग of the household 's  income .
As households tend to share a similar economic  कॉन्टेक्स्ट , the उपयोग of household आय remains among the सबसे widely स्वीकृत उपायों  of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such  उपायों may विकृत कोई विश्लेषण of fluctuations भीतर or among the household आय श्रेणी , और may रेंडर सीधा comparisons between quintiles मुश्किल  or even impossible .
The lapse rate is defined as the rate of  घटी साथ ऊँचाई लिये an वायुमंडलीय  variable .
The  परिवर्तनीय शामिल is तापमान जबतक  specified otherwise .
The terminology arises from  the शब्द बीतने in the भाव of a घटी  or decline .
While most often applied to Earth 's atmosphere the  अवधारणा can be विस्तारित to कोई gravitationally समर्थित बॉल of  gas .
Blue Mountain State is an American comedy  श्रेणी कि premiered on स्पाइक on जनवरी 11 , 2010  .
The series  निर्माता शामिल क्रिस romano और eric falconer , और it is उत्पादित by lionsgate  Television .
The series is about a  fictional विश्वविद्यालयों , ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य , और इसके फ़ुटबॉल टोली , ``  The Mountain Goats . ''
It portrays certain aspects of American  विश्वविद्यालयों जीवन , सहित फ़ुटबॉल , sex , binge पीने , दवाएँ , जंगली  partying , and hazing .
In February 2012 , it was reported  कि ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य होता नहीं be नवीनीकृत लिये a चौथी ऋतु  .
In March 2013 , Ed Marinaro stated  कि he is working on a ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य फिल्मी  .
Apple Inc. , formerly Apple Computer , Inc. , is an American multinational  निगम headquartered in cupertino , कैलिफ़ोर्निया कि डिजाइन , develops , और बिकता उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  , computer software and personal computers .
इसके best-known हार्डवेयर उत्पाद हैं the मैक लकीर of कंप्यूटर , the ipod  music player , the iPhone smartphone , and the iPad tablet computer .
Its software includes the OS X and iOS operating systems , the iTunes  मीडिया ब्राउजर , the safari वेब ब्राउजर , और the ilife और iwork रचनात्मकता और उत्पादन suites  .
The company  थी संस्थापित on अप्रैल 1 , 1976 , और incorporated as ठहराना  Computer , Inc. on January 3 , 1977 .
The word `` Computer '' was removed from  इसके नाम on जनवरी 9 , 2007 , reflecting इसके shifted फ़ोकस towards उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स बाद  the introduction of the iPhone .
Apple is the world 's  second-largest सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी कम्पनी by आय बाद samsung इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स , और the संसार  's third-largest mobile phone maker after Samsung and Nokia .
Fortune  पत्रिका नामित ठहराना the सबसे admired कम्पनी in the संयुक्त राज्य  in 2008 , and in the world from 2008 to 2012 .
However , the company has received criticism for its contractors ' labor  practices , और लिये ठहराना 's अपना पर्यावरणीय और कारोबार practices  .
, Apple  maintains 394 खुदरा स्टोर्स in चौदह देशों as  well as the online Apple Store and iTunes Store .
It is the second-largest publicly traded corporation in the world by  मार्केट capitalization , साथ an अनुमानित मान of us $ 414 अरब as of जनवरी 2013  .
, the company  था 72,800 स्थाई full-time कर्मचारी और 3,300 अस्थाई full-time  employees worldwide .
Its worldwide  सालाना आय in 2012 totalled $ 156 अरब  .
खण्ड 8 आवास in  the South Bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ) , often simply known as Section 8 , as repeatedly  amended , authorizes the भुगतान of rental आवास सहायता to निजी जमींदार on निमित्त of लगभग 3.1 लाख  low-income households .
It operates through  अनेक कार्यक्रम , the largest of जिससे , the आवास चुनाव वाउचर कार्यक्रम , pays a विशाल portion of the rents और  utilities of about 2.1 million households .
The US  विभाग of आवास और शहरी विकास  manages the Section 8 programs .
The Housing  चुनाव वाउचर कार्यक्रम provides `` tenant-based '' rental सहायता , so a किरायेदार can  move from one unit of at least minimum housing quality to another .
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the purchase of a home , with over $ 17  अरब going towards ऐसे purchases प्रत्येक साल ( इससे ncsha.org  analysis ) .
The maximum  अनुमत वाउचर is $ 2200 a माह  .
खण्ड 8 भी authorizes a किस्में of `` project-based '' rental सहायता कार्यक्रम , अंतर्गत जिससे the मालिक reserves कुछ or सब of the इकाई in a भवन लिये low-income किरायेदारों , in वापसी लिये a संघीय सरकारी  guarantee to make up the difference between the tenant 's contribution and the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the government .
A tenant who leaves a subsidized  प्रोजेक्ट होगा खोना अभिगम to the project-based रियायत .
The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and United States Department of Veterans Affairs have a  खास खण्ड 8 कार्यक्रम पुकारा vash ( दिग्गजों अफेयर्स supportive आवास ) , or hud-vash , जिससे देता आउट a निश्चित क्रमांक of खण्ड 8 वाउचर to योग्य बेघर और वरना  vulnerable US armed forces veterans .
Restaurants  categorized by प्रकार और सूचना परिचय ये अलग  types .
U.S. Federal  आरक्षित टीप in  the mid-1990s
The history of the United  राज्य डालर कवर अधिक than 200  years .
