A partly submerged himne gufa on perito moroo Glacier .
the barf mukhar is approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the Titlis glacier cave
A himne gufa is a gufa formed bhitr the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves hain praha pukra barf guffan , lackin inse pada is properly prutt to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the circumference of a vrat or roteon saahh a galar path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular rayte of rotaon ( aor nirtar gati ) , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation around a ficd ash of a three-dimensional body involves circular motion of its parts .
The equations of gati describe the gati of the bech of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an crutrim ugrah orbiting the darti at nirtar unchi , a stoon jisse is tied to a rassi aor is hona swung in circles , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
chunki the aakt 's gati vaktor is constantly badnaa disha , the chalti object is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without this acceleration , the object would move in a straight line , according to nutan 's kann of gati .
Apollo Creed is a fictional ashrr isse the raki films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World .
He thay niya by karle Weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames , sahit the nupun of viptt , the kinning of stiin , the nacha vinsak , the Prince of Punch , The One and Only and The Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that Apollo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the rulo ' panth , a bayan of belief used in Christian churches .
All of aplo 's chapis jadhe yau annunt for the 15 round distance .
Championship jadhe kiya nahi badle isse 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , aor bllu trunks ; panth thay the pahlo man to pahne unhe ( latterly worn by raki balwa in the 3rd aor 4th kistoo aor hakar by tamm `` the antar '' gunn ( tamm morsio ) in the 5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature rango yhoo blaec aor kaa he prutt in the latest movie .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and pushi by the sont raay sinte pursuant to the nitki clause in aleh ii of the sont raay Constitution .
In jod to the pram adalt of the sont raay , jinke astivat aor kuch faluo of jinke chastar hain pura the swankh sakti of corgens to alter , adhiomon of corgens have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal ndeshy ; aisa sthai shaml the mukhy infas aor sandh justices of the pram adalt , sakit dhythoin of the nyloy of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` aleh iii dhythoin '' cumi vey kasta the nyak sackit vested in the nyak shokha of the sanhhy sarki by aleh iii of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of anthrie waar kasat nyak power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the sanhhy nyloy , sahit jaxiteet dhythoin aor dipana dhythoii , hain bhii sometimes referred to as `` sanhhy dhythoin '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
See alekh i aor aleh III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a choti pocket-sized semi-automatic pistl designed by Beretta in Italy .
utpann began in latt 1984 , solely in the beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further vikas of the Beretta Model 20 , whose production ended in 1985 .
paritive sarvik jivan bima ( praha shortened to VUL ) is a type of life insurance that builds a cash value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate khate , saaman to prspar nidhe , aor the chana of jisse of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the naam refers to inse khssta to invest in prath khate jinke maana kaa vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets .
The 'universal ' ghatak in the naam refers to the chlpaan the owner has in making premium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums parah by the atric aaya kood liya jivan bima .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( halki eke may kasat an swalth priemium rinn visha , or atpan dividends to ada a purre Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance , because the mota labh hoga be shusl if the insured marta khoi samay as long as vahi is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs , napans purre jivan , vahi is no endowment aoo ( the aoo at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another kunje labh of vul over Whole Life .
With a typical whole life policy , the death benefit is limited to the face amount specified in the niti , aor at endowment aoo , the phans rashi is seb kiya is shulk out .
Thus with either death or endowment , the bima compnni keeps khoi nadii maana built up over the years .
However , some participating whole life policies offer riders which batan kiya khoi dividends shusl on the niti be prutt to kharide `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time .
If nivesh bana in the prath khate out-perform the samay khata of the bima compnni , a uchar rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing mota labh , aor if a unchi rate-of-return is arj in the prath khate of a vul niti , inse could pranamin in uchara value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic lacdi stove adapted liya set-up bahari abki sthil transferring the heat to interior buildings .
A mound of ladki skat cookies .
inse mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are kouk bechi by ladki skat of the yusy ( gsusa ) as eke of isko major fundraisers for local Scout units .
Members of the GSUSA have been selling cookies chunki 1917 to hathe nidhe .
Girls who participate can earn prizes for unko pratan .
There are also unit patanot if the kayi as a whole does well .
As of 2007 , bakri yhood anaut at prachy 200 lakho baax per year .
vishoon ghol
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette , Indiana , is the lephis vilhoov of the six-campus purdue vilhove system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant vishoov jajb the indiaa samay subha , lene labh of the morrill adhinn , swaqs a daane of land and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science , technology , and agriculture in his name .
The pahlo varg yau aagt on sitbarr 16 , 1874 , saahh chaa instructors and 39 students .
Today , Purdue is a member of the Big Ten Conference , and is a well known world-class shadh santha .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in iniaa as khoo as the choth largest anthriy chaar yankiti of any university in the United States .
Purdue offers dano undergraduate aor greet karm in over 211 prmuk areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation , having established the first college cretit offered in udan prahishan , the pahlo four-year stank 's upadi in vimanin , aor the pahla vishoon visaateer ( purdue vishoon visaatar ) .
Purdue 's aviation prikii karm remains eke of the sabse prishio aviation-specific programs in the world .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass unta spaceflight prikii giving vrdhi to purdue 's upna , palna of astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , including ghg grissom ( eke of the asli parra saat astronauts ) , neil araat ( the pahlo witt to tulna on the chandrma ) , aor yujin cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a pada kiya loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( bhii known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis aor a piller gaath originates isse iball follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
the naam is regarded as a misnomer as the vasiy , white , semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the sudsirit neither antii contains sebaceous glands .
In practice , however , the sharte hain praha prutt interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are known as steatocystomas or , if anek , as steatocystoma maltecees .
adhun pointe shoes .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot and toe box liya cushioning , can be dekhi on the sahi paar .
A pointe shoe is a type of juto worn by bele dancers when performing pointe work .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable nartak to nrt en pointe ( on the nuske of unko toes ) liya extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox roles such as the bhada stepsisters in sinda , niche in a midsummer ratri 's sapna , or meen performing as malao in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a variety of colors , sabse commonly in sheds of light pink .
This tablespoon has a khshta of prachy 15 mL .
measuring spoons
In the US and parts of Canada , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of macha prutt liya khane isse a catro .
In the UK , Europe and sabse dhartal deso , a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving .
In deso jaha a tablespoon is a seat macha , the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the khshta of eke tablespoon , is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is nahi regulated by vidhi aor is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 mL ; the capacity of an tastic tablespoon ( daiing utensil ) siemo isse 7 mL to 14 mL .
In Australia one tablespoon ( mapan kayi ) is 20 mL .
Harry Potter is a series of saath calpick novels lika by the angoj lakkk J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , hairi kumar , aor uske mitro rold vigle aor harmini grenjer , seb of zisko hain vidhhi at gorvart sula of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose aims are to become amar , jite the wizarding sanaar , subjugate non-magical logo , aor nasht seb those jau stand in uske rasta , vishar hairi Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's stoon on 30 juon 1997 , the books have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The series has bhii thaa kuch share of alcha , including concern for the increasingly dark tone .
, the book shari raai bechi prrchy 450 lakho naal , banana it the best-selling kitab shari in history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
The last four books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling kitab in history .
A series of many genres , including fantasy and coming of age ( with elements of mystery , thirl , adherer , aor romans ) , it raai anek santric meanings and references .
According to Rowling , the prmuk thema is moua .
There hain bhii anek anya vist in the series , such as prejudice and corruption .
The initial prmuk prakk of the kitab yau bloomsbury in the sont kidamen aor scholastic dabae in the United States .
The kitab have chunki marhu prik by many publishers worldwide .
The books , with the seventh book split into two parts , have been made into an eight-part film shari by warner bhai satve , the highest-grossing filli shari of all time .
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise , banana the hairi kumar brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the books and films , Harry Potter has been used for a theme paak , the wizarding sanaar of hairi kumar in sarvik paak & ristar 's ailedins of adherer .
rs-68 hona tested at naso 's Stennis Space Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to inse injan 's exhaust hona jyadar attp bhap ( jala waah isse isko propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C prastr injan
A rocket injan , or baae `` prastr '' , is a jeet injan kiya upag tabhi nandrrt propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket engines are reaction injan aor obtain thrust in accordance saah nutan 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form their jet , rocket engines can be prutt liya spacecraft nodn as khoo as sthali uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket engines are internal dhan injan , halki non-combusting form bhii exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust gatti , hain by dhur the lightest , lackin hain the tanik propellant kosal of all types of jet engines .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' is a sog by American recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and title track from uske deybue stiyi album , ... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby eke adhek samay '' thay released on sitabar 30 , 1998 , by jive raadar .
bada reacoidin aor sending a demo tep saah an aurt song from Toni Braxton , Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and dance-pop sog kiya refers to a ladki jau sentph tokar up saah uske borrfendes .
The song received generally anku samichena isse achlon , who praised its composition .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' attained wash kama , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It bhii prapt numerous certifications around the sanaar , aor is eke of the best-selling singles of all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
An accompanying music veeo , nishan by nigal land , portrays sgaps as a chaar isse a chalic unchi sula , jau starts to daydream kiya dho is gaaon and dancing around the school , while watching her love interest from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , where sgars 's fictional bete is vash saah a saaman schoolgirl phana abki wearing pink ribbons in her hair .
In 2010 , the muck veeo liya `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One adhek samay '' in a cramak of live appearances and in all of her concert tours .
It was the encore of the ... baby eke adhek samay daura ( 1999 ) aor sapna bhitr a sapna daura ( 2001 ) ; sgars also performed remixed versions of the song during the Oops ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , the cars abhin britney sgips ( 2009 ) , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One More samay '' thay mantin liya a grami pukra liya behatin maada paap gaaon prashan , and has been included in lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted for redefining the dhani of latt 1990s moc .
Spears has namit `` ... baby eke adhek samay '' as eke of her favorite songs from her career .
It was bhii the naila sog to be niya on the bisi 's music programme Top of the Pops .
Cholera is an infection in the small intestine caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae .
The main lashan hain watery atarar and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste utp ) of an sankit witt , sahit eke saah no apparent lashan .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to repid nirzan aor electrolyte astuln , aor mota in some cases .
The primary treatment is mauk pulkir chikta , typically saah mauk pulkir saahan , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is nahi tolerated or kurta nahi provide sudhar teaj prapt , intravenous fluids can also be used .
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with kathor bimar to shorten isko avhdi aor garrtt .
wipyi , it affects kaa lakho people and causes kaa deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be padha by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of dorrin dhuser is the tabhi prik ankh by askar wall , appearing as the seese stori in lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890 , printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine .
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as submitted , so vey censored roughly 500 sabd , bagar wall 's gyann , pahlo publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with outrage by angoe reviewers , kuch of zisko sujay kiya wall chahe be prosecuted on moral grounds , agrin wall to caaav the anko aggressively in ashrr to the angoe dabae .
Wilde later revised the story for book prasaon , banana substantial alterations , hatna visad passages , adding nayi adhya aor sahit an aphoristic preface jisse has since become famous in its own right .
The amended sankar thay prik by Ward , Lock and Company in April 1891 .
Some scholars manana kiya walled hota aage have chahe us to pada the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a yag man namit dorrin dhuser , the vishy of a painting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's sandar aor becomes infatuated saahh ussy , believing uske sander is jimer for a new mode in his art .
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton , a dost of besil 's , aor becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism , Lord Henry suggests the only things worth pursuing in jivan hain sandr aor fulfilment of the hosh .
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a khash to bech uske attm to ensure the port Basil has painted would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect each act has upon uske attm , saah pratke seen prishit as a disfigurement of uske roop , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of dorrin dhuser is maano a karya of clask ghtick fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 farr 1917 ) , gyat as zor zor gabbar ( ) , is a hangrr -born amri aahit jau acted in supporting bioan in movies , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
Gabor was also a socialite .
dho began uske stes karir in veya at age 15 , and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after aahiti saah `` uoriyp fluer aor sthali '' , saahh a ittc kiya `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her pahlo film bumk thay as supporting actress in Lovely to Look At .
She later acted in we 're nahi shada !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , nisdh by jaan hastan , jau varnn uske as a `` visepian '' aahiti .
Besides her film and television appearances , she is best known for having nano pattoy , sahit ghol marhhari condr Hilton and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have sada liked me aor i have always liked men .
But I like a mannish man , a man jau knows kasa to vaat to aor davat a stri kaa nahi just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : kaa ; born liele jun-fan ; 27 nambar 1940 kaa 20 julaya 1973 ) thay a chaninn amri martial clakar , karta , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of Jeet Kune Do , Lee was the bete of cantonese apparo sthrr liele hoi-chuen .
He is widely considered by commentators , critics , media and other martial caloom to be eke of the sabse influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited with helping to change the rasta ashiya yhoo prust in American films .
Lee thay born in chaunn , sein fanko on 27 nambar 1940 to aarak isse hoag kaang aor thay utha in Kowloon with his family until his late teens .
He thay introduced to the filli udgo by uske father and appeared in several films as a child actor .
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive his higher siska , aor it thay dauran inse samay kiya he began shikn martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated the traditional Hong Kong martial arts film to a nayi sthrr of laccaria aor acclaim , sparking a surge of beaj in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films badala aor baawa martial kela aor martial kela films in Hong Kong and the rest of the world .
He is noted for his roles in pach feature-length films : lo vaye 's the biga boss ( 1971 ) aor mutti of foori ( 1972 ) ; rasta of the drann ( 1972 ) , nishan aor lika by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic figure gyat throughout the sanaar , vishar among the chainns , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring instead the use of catcoon isse vinnin srot , in the stiet of uske neeji martial kela dasnrr , jisse he utlle jeet kune do ( the rasta of the intercepting mutti ) .
Lee held dual nagrat of hoag kaang aor the United States .
He died in Kowloon tong on 20 julaya 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( thanda ) , dirlic obstructive airway bimar ( coad ) , dirlic airflow limitation ( calori ) aor dirlcol obstructive respiratory bimar ( cord ) , is the occurrence of dirlcil brentics or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to aor isse the fefede , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
In clinical practice , COPD is parah by isko characteristically low airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma , this limitation is poorly reversible aor praha gets progressively badtar over samay .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gass , sabse commonly isse tamboo dhorpan , jisse triggers an asaan jalne jawab in the lung .
The diagnosis of copd requires peeon jalne tests .
Important management strategies are smoking cessation , vaccinations , punaver , aor drag therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
kuch meri go on to aakta long-term oxipinn chikta or lung transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the chate agri karnne of mota in 1990 .
It is projected to become the fourth leading cause of death wisy by 2030 , due to an badan in dhorpan daro aor yankis changes in many countries .
COPD is the third leading cause of death in the U.S. , aor the arthec bujh of copd in the u.S. in 2007 thay $ 42.6 arab in health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is one of the sabse discussed yohu piditoon of the holocaust .
Her diary has been the adhar liya anek plays aor films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt am prmuk in viira jarmin , dho lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam , in the Netherlands .
Born a German national , Frank khoya uske nagrat in 1941 .
She gained anthrri kitri posthumously after her diary was published .
It documents her experiences hiding during the German occupation of the niddlendr in World War II .
The Frank family moved inse jarmin to addmast in 1933 , the saal the nazis gained control over Germany .
By the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by the naji occupation of the nidlandrnt .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942 , the family went into chapan in the chupa sash of aani 's pita , Otto Frank 's , office building .
bada dho xalo , the group was betrayed and transported to concentration camps .
Anne Frank aor uske sister , margot , yhoo hakar transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp , where they died of typhus in March 1945 .
otto fenk , the tabhi utri of the puria , lauta to addmast bada the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
It was translated from its original Dutch and first prak in angrij in 1952 as the dayri of a yag ladki .
it raai chunki marhu andut into many languages .
The diary , which was given to Anne on her 13th jendamas , crensll uske jivan isse 12 juon 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
Kurt 's hastar
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) was an amri santarr aor clakar , behtin gyat as the seese singar , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and sthtp it as bhag of the sital myoc saaki , having isko debu ellam bleech released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with `` khoob jaise tinn spiet `` isse isko duori ellam nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of peehe x , aor kobo hailed as `` the parka of a pedhe '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and kalari dushi to have marum misinterpreted by the palcic , saah uske neeji issues often subject to media attention .
he challenged nirvan 's daras with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
dauran the pichla xalo of uske jivan , kobo struggled saah heroin addiction , illness and depression .
He also had difficulty coping saahh uske kitri aor palcie hitrr , aor the pesher aor lifelong neeji pressures surrounding himself and his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , kobo thay mila murde at uske gher in sital , the shakar of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances of his death at aoo 27 have become a tapic of palcic fascination aor debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with Cobain as a songwriter , raai bechi over 25 lakho ellam in the u.S. , aor over 50 lakho worldwide .
Radial injan samay aor kamo yatrii .
Click liya purr reus animation .
Radial engine of a balpenn
Master rod ( upright ) , slave aor balances isse a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type atric dhan injan vinas in jisse the silender paitin outward isse a contrl crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized sthrr jajb viewed isse the samna , aor is pukra a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft injan pahlo tarbin injan became predominant .
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom , created by sooan haris , kiya originally aired on ansi isse sitabar 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur , Betty swath , rue mcclanahan aor estelle getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions , in samnh saah touchstone talvin , aor paal junger witt , toni thamas , and Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards , including the pritim ami pukar liya bika comide sharin twice .
it bhii jeet tinn sunher glob pukkar for Best Television Series kaa Musical or Comedy .
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the shari ' chalan aor thaa anek nominations .
The series bhii crem among the shers teen highest-rated karm for six out of its seven seasons .
Deepwater drilling is the prakm of aala aor gass khoje aor utpann in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this definition , there are lagbh 600 deepwater kuon in the galf of masko .
It has been economically infeasible for many years , lackin saah utthe aala kimite , adhek compannon hain nivesh in this area .
Major companies working in this sactor shaml damn offshore , transocean , and Baker Hughes .
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater khude rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed isse a fixed-position sapata aisa as a flothng spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform .
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in the wash deepwater aacarna maket hoga phonn $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa seb aala is accessible on land or in shallow water .
You can find some oil jama dhann gahne antra the smander kaa ... using sonk upkar , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then they use a mobile offshore khude kayi ( modu ) to dig the initial well .
Some units are converted into production rigs , meaning they swach isse khudi liya aal to capturing aala akar it 's mila .
Most of the samay , the aal compnni hoga badle the modu with a more permanent oil production rig to capture kaa ... The MODU 's job is to drill down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits .
The part of the drill that extends niche the deke aor through the water is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to mowa between the manjil aor the rig .
insers nimnar a drrli strining -- a shari of paap designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the kaa
kaa vistar of deepwater khude is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... kaa
In 2010 a large explosion occurred hatya 11 madrur aor spilling lakho of galan of aal into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
kaa ... despite the risks , the deepwater khudi trend is spreading in the bharmeg aor bandh the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural kaa
kaa reason for the resumption of such drilling , lislak kah , is continuing unchi maang liya urja kaa
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to phans the unchi risks kiya aiye saah deepwater khudi in order for Americans to continue to carry on their everyday lives .
kaa Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 sthrr of 1.3 lakho barrels a dena , sthil nearly a cwar of kool rehlu production , to 2 million barrels a day by kaa
Deepwater drilling affects the parva in dano tanrak aor positive ways .
Although deepwater khude rarely kanari aala spills it is sthil a hazardous possible outcome .
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the bottom of the smander smothering santrr jivan leaving machli bagar khana aor shelter to survive .
On the other hand deepwater khudi praaav the paran in a positive ways too .
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in upag anymore padhe hoga grow on aor around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the ghrrioo of the smander manjil kiya are hardly ever seen .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take foto of wirle machli kiya hain in vahi pratic vaaas , giving waginic a dekh at pesu vey rarely kaa ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with zisko sont raay addhs dheek cletin admitted to having thaa an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its parkna ( jisse shaml Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
frnsis alar `` fenk '' sinta , , ( dismar 12 , 1915 kaa May 14 , 1998 ) was an American singer and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo clakar isse the jaldi to mid-1940s bada hona hastic to collanbia raadar in 1943 .
hona the idll of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released uske pahlo album , The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
uske pesher karir thaa stalled by the 1950s , lackin it thay punman in 1953 after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released anek critically lauded ellam ( aisa as in the mut choti ghanto , gito liya swingin ' priemian ! , Come Fly with Me , Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized saahh hasti aor cutnooi , sahit jaan F. kende .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , ankit the retrospective sitabar of my xalo , stahra in the ami -winning talvin special Frank Sinatra : A Man and His Music , and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way `` .
With sales of his music dwindling aor bada appearing in anek poorly prapt films , Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came out of retirement and in 1973 ankit anek ellam , soiring a shers 40 hit saah `` ( thema isse ) nayi York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base , he toured both within the United States and internationally , aabak a choti samay pahlo uske mota in 1998 .
Sinatra also forged a atdich kamab karir as a film actor .
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953 , he also garnered a naman liya behatin karta liya the man saah the suhrr buja , aor naun acclaim liya his performance in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also starred in such musicals as High Society , Pal jaya , yaro aor daal and On the Town .
Sinatra was samin at the kende bech honors in 1983 aor thay awarded the addhisya padak of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy Trustees Award , grami lende pukkar aor the grami aavan upadii Award .
Sinatra is also one of kaa best-selling caloom of seb samay , having bechi adhek than 150 million copies worldwide .
ther cornhole board
Cornhole , also known as bean bag toss , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at a utha mach saah a chade in the dhur end .
A bag in the chade sakor 3 ank , abki eke on the platform scores 1 point .
Play continues until a toli or khili reaches the score of 21 .
The American Gold Eagle is an adhak sunha bullion coin of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was pahlo released by the sont raay minte in 1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized isse pratan hatha yug catcoon aor popularized shurt in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes chalan liya 90 mintes aor consist of the vahi series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) saah a ardaa of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an amri karta , hasi aor rapper behatin gyat liya aubhin as maical barret in niclound television series Zoey 101 .
Massey has received many awards and nomination sahit a yag clakar pukra aor ammi pukkar nominations .
He is also gyat liya appearing in anek commercials in the early 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon bana of beaag sthyl .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as well as a kayi of mapan of volume in some countries and customs .
a farnn is khoi eke or adhek of a smoh of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the botanical group known as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have xylem and flommiu ( banana unhe vascular plants ) .
They have stems , pette , aor jadey jaise anya vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores and have neither seeds nor pushpi .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) shaml horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns aor a few anya bijre vascular padhe ( dekhi narki section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not appear aabak roughly 145 lakho xalo pahlo in the jaldi cretaceous ( bada flowering padhe aaye to dominate anek environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but some are grown or gathered for food , as ornamental plants , for remediating contaminated soils , aor have marhu the vishy of shadh liya unko khshta to haten kuch rasik pruskuk from the air .
Some are significant weeds .
vey bhii khel a bumk in mythology , medicine , and art .
Flat roofs in isril
Flat chaat in lalsa enjicls
A flat roof is a parkar of covering liya a bhann .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a chapta chaat is aada or nearly horizontal .
The slope of a roof is properly known as isko pich : roofs jisse hain nearly chata hain gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
Any sheet of material used to cover a flat or low-pitched roof is usually gyat as a jilli aor the prathak purpose of yaa lillo is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to chalan bandh isse a patla inclination or camber into a gutter pralil .
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes bahti freely bandh the kinare of a chaat , halik gutter prilooin hain of labh in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto the maidan , or behtar , into a vishar bana soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs usually seese jala into the rainwater nale prali of khoi nirm up area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect jala in a pool , praha liya aesthetic udsey , or for rainwater buffering .
chapat roofs mood seb over the sanaar aor each area has its own tradition or preference for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur , many flat roofs hain baae nirm of chini or kantri aor inse is shoh at keeping aut the umsho of the suory aor susti aor easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become srnpt by barat aor lika , or jaha jala soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
traditionally sabse chapta roofs in the pushi sanaar meke uppg of tarol or adhek praha tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in baari to kharna the suory 's umsho , uv kirne aor masam bandh it aor helps protect it isse cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is usually of plywood , chipboard or osb falak ( osb = unkh strand falak , also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot drav , heated in a tarol ketly , or as chadre of tarol impregnated 'paper ' chapae bas aor sealed saah at joints by hot tarol - akar it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is angama or kami of mentos jaha logo or karm karnne the baari to be sthrn or removed isse the tarol or tarpaper waterproofing , yaun exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre samri soaked or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise khada isse the chaat aisa as on munder divaren or upstands , tarpaper visaan hain idtit saah theek baari lagoo to the hot tarol dauran the prakm of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those applying it to upaj adhek or kaam kamab pranamin .
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of samri kharde aor lagat of lata unhe , however the lagat of adhuok lillo aisa as epdm raai aiye bas over recent years to make them more and more affordable .
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing jugat of unko prashan and availability .
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed liya long avhdi of samay dauran jisse jala penetrates aor soaks the alakar aor khoi insulation and/or structure beneath it .
This can lead to expensive damage from the dorgan jisse praha develops aor if left can weaken the roof structure .
There are also various health risks to people and animals swaas the sache beoon : the garrtt of inse swasth risk remains a debated point .
One problem saah maintaining chapat roofs is kiya if jala kurta ghus the adro covering ( be it pragat or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is nahi asaan to dekhi jaha it is paktte in order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further saghan or puddling of jala in kiya chartel aor the prablom worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed kampatt diskk jisse contains data .
The name is an exumrr jisse stand liya `` kampatt Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can pada cd-roms , lackin can nahi likhe on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to vitr computr tantra , sahit veeo khel aor maltida applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , pukra unta cds , thaam dano compottr ankda aor aido saah the latter saxh of hona niya on a cd khili , abki data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the tanke maank kiya defines the swrop of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats , the pila kitab , nirm by sone aor peel , thay the pahlo ectatin of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the swro to hold any form of data .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen name J. K. roling , is a angoe upnaar , behtin gyat as the lakkk of the Harry Potter fantasy series .
the kumar kitab have gained wipyi dhaan , jeet anek awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
They have become the best-selling book series in ithes , aor marhu the adhar liya a shari of films jisse raai become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as khoo as maintaining thanak contol by seat as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a researcher aor dumiya cchrv liya mafee anthrri jajb dho conceived the vichar liya the hairi kumar shari on a vilat tren isse Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period that followed entailed the mota of uske maan , talak inse uske pahlo husband aor grrbi aabak roling smapt the pahlo anko in the shari , hairi Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 kaa pichla , hairi kumar aor the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) kaa khoo as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , roling parted saah uske ansi aor resumed likhe in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is currently working on two kaa aimed for wasko , the anya liya children younger than the hairi kumar daras , aor dho expects the latter to be published first .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which she progressed isse jeena on raay labh to multi-millionaire akata bhitr five years .
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling lakkk chunki raadar began , saahh bakri in excess of kaa .
The 2008 Sunday Times Rich List anaut roling 's saaya at kaa lakho ( $ 798 lakho ) , rancing uske as the barva richest stri in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , aor samay patricoa namit uske as a runner-up liya isko 2007 witt of the saal , noting the social , moral , and political inspiration she has given her fans .
In October 2010 , roling thay namit the `` sabse influential stri in bretten '' by leading magazine editors .
She has become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic Relief , One Parent Families , anek kathiy sama of gree bretten aor lumos ( formerly the children 's unchi sthrr Group ) .
Auburndale is a nuagar in polk kanti , florrrr , United States .
The population was 11,032 at the 2000 yankise .
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005 , the nuagar thad a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the lakeland kaa shit hawan mahag Statistical Area .
Hurricane Isabel ( 2003 ) as seen isse sasha dauran expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
the nazar , eyewall , aor surrounding rainbands , vishate of tropical cyclones , are clearly visible in this view from space .
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by a parpil wasth of thunderstorms kiya upaj madar hawan aor bhari rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen jajb jala cafur isse the smander is released as the srnpt aeyr udai , resulting in sannnn of water vapor contained in the moist air .
vey hain fueled by a alag umsho yantii than anya cyclonic windstorms aisa as nor'easters , European windstorms , and polar lows .
The characteristic that separates tivra cyclones isse anya cyclonic prilonin is kiya at khoi unchi in the mahul , the bech of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems , jisse praha roop in tivra regions of the gloob , aor to unko gathan in maritime tropical air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic priti , saahh counterclockwise hona flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere .
The opposite direction of the hona prava is a pranamn of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its sthan aor sakti , a tivra ccarva is referred to by names aisa as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic storm , tropical depression , and simply cyclone .
While tivra cyclones can upaj atdich satli hawan aor mulhar barat , they are also able to produce high waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies of warm water , and lose their strength if vey mowa over jamin due to increased satah garhhan aor ghata of the garma smander as an urja source .
This is why coastal regions can receive significant khsti isse a tivra ccarva , abki adtrdiya regions hain acrat surkit isse receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can upaj significant baad adtrdiya , aor tufan surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to from the coastline .
Although their effects on human populations can be vinsher , tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and hatran it toward shithon latitudes , jisse makes unhe an important part of the global atmospheric circulation mechanism .
as a pranamn , tivra cyclones shota to maintain suntlun in the darti 's bhnnl , aor to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop jajb the dovelin sharte around a kajar disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns such as the madden-julian dola , el kaa doln , aor the atalac multidecadal oscillation .
Others form when other parkar of cyclones acquire tivra characteristics .
Tropical systems are then moved by steering winds in the bhnnl ; if the sharte remain anku , the tivra disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the spectrum , if the conditions around the prali deteriorate or the tivra ccarva makes landfall , the praliy weakens aor hakar dissipates .
It is nahi sansit to artificially induce the dissipation of these systems with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; dismar 9 , 1916 ) is an amri stet aor filli karta , filli nirma and author .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the khubte ( 1952 ) , 20,000 ling antra the smadra ( 1954 ) , havas liya jivan ( 1956 ) , rahe of mahima ( 1957 ) , gunfight at the o.k . corral ( 1957 ) , the wannix ( 1958 ) , staatrs ( 1960 ) , nirjan hain the ver ( 1962 ) , saath deno in may ( 1964 ) , the naak of telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male American serin muroshur of seb samay , banana ussy the highest-ranked living person on the list .
In 1996 , he prapt the adami mand pukra `` liya 50 years as a creative and moral force in the motion picture community . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from holid 's `` sunhe aoo '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an amri chatnn aor fenk singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist , he performed and recorded as Bob Seger aor the pichla sona aor bob seger praliy throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he had dropped the `` System '' isse uske renarin aor gari to niet liya broader kama with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of detroit-area santroi , saah zisko he became most successful on the national level with the album Live Bullet , recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he hasil a nashl bret saah the studio album Night Moves .
On his studio albums , he also worked extensively saah the alabama-based masisi shoals laya khand , jisse appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , shouting voice , Seger wrote and ankit gito kiya dealt saah priemimm , mahlo , blue-collar vist aor thay an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger has recorded many hits , sahit `` ratri chale , '' `` farr the pees , '' `` we 've mila tonight , '' `` virdho the hona , '' aor shakedown kiya was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock , '' and also co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` Old samay chatnn aor fenke `` thay namit eke of the gito of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , seger continues to perform and record today .
Seger was inducted into the chatan aor fenke ghol of kitri in 2004 aor the songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 kaa April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the sont raay , seat isse 1969 to 1974 , jajb he became the tabhi addhs to ista the office .
Nixon had previously served as a rapblonn u.S. prtthin aor sintre from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
nisna thay born in Yorba Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University sula of vidhi in 1937 , returning to chllrnfira to practice law .
He and his wife , paete nisna , stint to vashitnn to karya liya the sanhhy government in 1942 .
He subsequently parosa in the sont raay neve dauran World War II .
Nixon was elected in cllnrinar to the haas of prtthin in 1946 aor to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss mamla sthpt uske pratha as a agri anti-communist , aor elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of dwita D. anaar , the rapblonn parti adchya nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon served liya arth xalo as vaisa addhs .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly khone to jaan F. kende , aor khoya a rees liya rajal of chllriiira in 1962 .
In 1968 , he bhaga again liya the presidency and was elected .
Although Nixon initially escalated amrraa 's baarde in the nitan hudd , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic sandh between the dho rashar , aor he initiated kaa aor the anti-ballistic masil sandhi saahh the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his prashan generally embraced netyo kiya transferred sakti isse Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight karte aor illegal dawaon , imposed madri aor daam nitran , enforced desegregation of kuch dhasinn sulcoon , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning saah aplo 11 , he scaled waps manten sgec khoje .
He was re-elected by a bulna in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro agnew , aor a continuing shari of khulas prachy the vartager kand aor anya misconduct by saxy of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing nisna much of uske raaatic support , aor on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his resignation , he controversially prapt a pardon gari by uske successor , jerdl Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman , authoring anek kitab aor undertaking anek foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating strok on apryl 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ { infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused kadwa contention between addhs grant and Sen. Sumner .
Brady 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the caribbean aor fearful kiya annexation hota seese to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti , became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , sen. sumner initially withheld uske raai on the sandhi on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of State , Bancroft device , kiya u.s . naval jaza yau hona prutt to protect addhs kaa .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation aor at sen. kaa suwa aor cofee sansht to shej the parti isse an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session .
addhs grant persisted aor bhaja sansee to cornes in hasan of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng kiya vahi hota be parashi saah the vidhe naaoim , noting the dirlcil vidro kiya took plale on the dewp , aor the rark kiya the independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that grant 's upag of the u.S. neve as a protte thay a violation of International law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on juon 30 , 1870 the sandhi thay voted on by the sinte aor pifal to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage .
The following day , addhs grant , aaaas gadri by sen. sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to the addhs thay palcie gyann , aor he blamed the ccevi of raay liya failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men , mitro aabak tab , cooled into kadwa enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo domon somehow , sumner diya a fiercely naun waka accusing the addhs of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , smarth by uske ccevi of raay hamalt machli , thaa initiated a aiaan to depose Sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt , Sumner had prrat grant 's pura repeal of the karyal of daftar adhinn , avert grant 's naman of sinder stiver to u.S. cchvir of raskh , aor marhu a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant resented sumner 's bapdan of manner , as well .
Told akar kiya sumner kiya nahi manana in the baell , the addhs is supposed to have said that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift between grant aor sumner increased , kaa health began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , sitro sandh saahh addhs grant , gyat as kaa kaa voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional achar kiya examines netak siddan aor moral or netak problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to all faluo of caaar conduct aor is pranic to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
Business achar raai dano normative and descriptive dimensions .
As a corporate practice aor a karir specialization , the fillad is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand caaar bartav employ tarnakk vidhi .
The range and quantity of caaar netak mudde reflects the bacht of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns .
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically dauran the 1980s aor 1990s , dano bhitr prmuk corporations and within academia .
For example , today most major corporations promote their pratha to non-economic maana antra headings aisa as achar kood aor sholl responsibility charters .
Adam Smith said , `` People of the same trade seldom meet saah , bhii liya merriment aor diversion , laciin the talva ends in a dhantar virdh the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
sarke uppg kann aor regulations to panit caaar behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial directions .
Ethics implicitly regulates chatti aor vivan of behavior that lie beyond governmental control .
The emergence of large corporations with limited sandh aor swashati to the smando in jisse they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat , vido , rasan , garhhan , or vikrinn .
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper sikne lackin do nahi involve the pura moti of the sikne ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely seb parto of the sikne or deeper utko , aisa as masisi or asthi can be ghal in jisse case the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The treatment required depends on the garrtt of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than simple pain killers while prmuk burns may aakta prolonged upaar in specialized barna centers .
colling saah tap jala may shota paida aor ghati khasti however if exapar is prolonged it may result in low body temperature .
Partial thickness burns may require cleaning with saboon aor jala followed by dressings .
Blisters chahi typically be left unbroken .
Full thickness burns usually require saral upaar aisa as sikne kalmi and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most aam jatoon of burns hain related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , modern upaar viksit in the pichla 50 xalo have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million logo talas chixa upaar and 300,000 people die from burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a barna bech , lagbh 4 % die from their injuries .
The long term outcome is primarily samnin to the aaar of barna and the age of the person effected .
The Atlantic Ocean , not sahit artic aor Antarctic regions
This video was taken by the crew of expedition 29 on falak the ISS .
The pass starts from just north-east of the dwap of nilfonded over the utar atalac smander to contrl Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic smander is the second-largest of the sanaar 's oceanic divisions .
With a total area of about , it covers lagch 20 pritt of the darti 's satah aor prrchy 29 pritt of isko jala surface area .
The first part of its naam refers to atalls of yuni mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : atalin thlsaa ( yuni : kaa kaa ; English : Sea of Atlas ) .
The term Ethiopic Ocean , derived from Ethiopia , was lagoo to the dhasinn atalac as latt as the mid-19th sadi .
Before Europeans discovered other oceans , the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the wanshi of jiblart kiya we abhi jaan as the Atlantic .
The early Greeks believed this smander to be a gigantic nadi encircling the world .
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated , s-shaped jalay extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes maano a smadra of the atalac ) , to the prast smander in the chhdith , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other prahyin describe the atalac as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into the utar atalac smander aor dhasin Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and chation , tivra cyclones aor upphsn cyclones hain diye names according to niti ( dekhi tivra ccvaat naming ) .
The following are lists from which yaa tivra aor upsh ccvaat names hain derived .
swats layit is dispersed by a primp into the colors of the optical spectrum .
The visible spectrum is the portion of the lerctinin spectrum that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
elactictenne vikarnn in inse daura of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light .
A typical human eye will respond to wavelengths isse prrchyi 390 to 700 nm .
In sharte of rvrti , this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa THz .
A light-adapted nazar generally raai isko adatam swashati at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ) , in the green region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ) .
The nark karta nahi , however , contain all the colors that the human eyes and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as lulabi , or jamin visaan aisa as magenta , hain anupitt , liya udarnn , cuyi vey can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
rango containing tabhi eke wavelength are also called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the region of the electromagnetic nark jisse allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An udarnn of inse ghatna is kiya saaf aeyr scatters blue light more than red wavelengths , and so the midday sky appears blue .
The optical window is also called the visible window because it overlaps the insan dras jawab nark .
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the insan dushi , as khoo as the medi wavelength ir ( mwir ) khide and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many species can see light with barbant bahar the `` dras nark , '' jisse is defined in terms of human vision .
Bees and many other insects can detect paragin layit , jisse helps them find nectar in flowers .
santrr prati kiya nirra on kiet paran may owe reproductive kamay to unko appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
phshyonin , too , can dekhi into the paragi ( kaa nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range , however , can nahi dekhi redd layit or khoi anya reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm , baase pahlo the nargi wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can dekhi kuch redd wavelengths , but not as many as humans .
zebras ( or ) hain anek prati of afri equids ( horse family ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their dharni aiye in alag patan , unique to each individual .
They are generally social pesu kiya seav in choti harems to large herds .
Unlike their closest ristro , ghode aor asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There hain tinn prati of zebras : the maidan zebra , the kaa 's zebra and the mountain zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus hippotigris , lackin kaa 's jabra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely samnin , abki the purva dho are more horse-like .
All three belong to the genus equus , saah saah other living equids .
The unique stripes of zebras make them one of the pesu sabse prabit to people .
They occur in a kismo of habitats , aisa as grasslands , savannas , vuddlind , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
However , various anthropogenic factors have thaa a kathor praaav on jabra populations , in particular hunting for skins and habitat destruction .
kaa 's zebra and the pahad jabra hain endangered .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century kaa though there is currently a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to nasal zebras kiya hain phenotypically saaman to the quagga in a prakm called breeding back .
Barry White , born bairi yujin kartar ( kaa ) , thay an amri composer and singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting anek enduring attm , durg , aor disko gito aisa as uske dho biggest hitas , `` tuma 're the pahlo , the pichla , my subk `` aor `` ca n't milenge prapt of apna priemium , Babe . ''
Along with Isaac Hayes , swath is maano by allmusic.com as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s .
During the course of his career in the music business , White hasil 106 sunha ellam wisy , 41 of jisse bhii attained platinum status .
swath thaa 20 sunha aor 10 pletinem singles , saahh wipei bakri in excess of 100 million , according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan .
His influences included Rev . James Cleveland , rarr charlas , arthia fricolin plals motown caloom the supremes , the haar Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975 ) is an amri aahit , filli director , and screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award , two Screen aithoon gill pukrar , aor tinn sunhe glob pukar , aor thay namit Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian kanari , aor is vika liya uske karya saah sharthon as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' stri , a sherak liya jisse dho raai prapt substantial media attention .
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon vout in lookin ' to milenge aat ( 1982 ) , lackin uske filli karir began in sachai a shaq bada saahh the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first leading role in a major filli thay in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an adami pukar liya behatin supporting aahit liya uske prashan in the natak ladki , badit ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video khel naic larla cref in larla cref : mabra redrer ( 2001 ) , aor sthtp herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) aor chahi ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated wyniik salaoo to kaa received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie made her directorial debut with the wartime natak in the jamin of rakt aor medu ( 2011 ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller aor bili bob thrtnn , goli abhi jivana saah karta bredd pitt , in a sandh notable liya fervent midaa dhaan .
Jolie and Pitt have tinn biological children and three adopted children .
A pratic mahra idpit by the apadn of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic prinion such as wind or water flow , and then transported and deposited in other locations .
While erosion is a natural prakm , insan kremone have increased by 10-40 tammias the rayte at jisse erosion is occurring globally .
Excessive erosion causes problems aisa as marularin , decreases in agricultural utda due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; sont , vey hain jimer liya 84 % of degraded acreage , banana excessive erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads , anthropogenic alou badle aor shari sprawl hain amongst the sabse significant insan kremone in liaa to unko effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace -building , no-till krshi , aor revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an American reality talvin shari jisse bhaga on amveti from December 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The series follows the lives of eight housemates spending unko garman at the jarsi shore in the u.S. raay of nayi Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to miya bech , saah ritu 3 returning to the jarsi shore .
The fourth season , filmed in itli , premiered on agst 4 , 2011 .
The show returned for a fifth ritu , at seaside hattas on January 5 , 2012 .
The paavo ritu finale aired on March 15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 , amvet pushi kiya the shari hota wapsi for their sixth season .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV hogt kiya the shari hoga smapt bada the chate ritu , jisse premiered on October 4 .
The series finale aired on dismar 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes , aor scrutiny isse sthaniy cuyi the daala saxy yhoo nahi neeoone of the area .
The series garnered rekar darja liya amveti , banana it the sajal 's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series ' cast have bhii marhu credited saah introducing adviti lexicon and phrases into American popular culture .
The vilhoov of shego aor the vishoo of ahla hain among the shank institutions that have had classes or conferences about the show .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara Walters ' 10 sabse fascinating logo suchi , aor the shari raai chunki marhu exported to dozens of countries worldwide .
There are several remakes of the show in other countries , with two niyat in the sont kidam ; the khoo gyat geordie Shore , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England .
The other is the ghatoon , the velsh equivalent , which is filmed and set in Cardiff .
The only other official remek of the dikha is kaa shore , set in kaa , Spain .
sahi
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal sarki of the sonk raay , sahit seb waters ( around ailedids or mapadi tracts ) and all U.S . Naval vessels .
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign adhro liya exploring , exploiting , conserving , aor managing its territory .
This extent of territory is seb the chartel belonging to , aor antra the dominnen of , the sont raay sanhhy sarki ( jisse shaml tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes .
The sonk raay kool territory includes a subset of political divisions .
The U.S. government is a sarkr saahh prativet shatiya antra the sonte States Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the United States by the swanhann , nor nisha by it to the raay , hain surtit to the raay crash , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film nishan by jathnn mostow aor abhint arndn swaaner , upna stahl , clean Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to the tarmen ( 1984 ) .
After Skynet fails to maar saara connor pahlo uske bete is born aor to maar jaan kood as a chailadd , it bhana waps another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This shaml jaan 's shaviy biwi , laciin nahi jaan kood as uske whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in katre jajb the t-x accidentally pata him .
A cord of wood
The cord is a unit of mea of shush aage prutt in kanda aor the sont raay to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of wood kiya , jajb `` crem aor khoo stowed '' ( arranged so tukde hain lakir , parallel , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a khoo stacked woodpile unchi , long , aor gahne ; or any other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume .
The name cord sansht aataa isse the uppg of a cord or string to measure it .
The , is an 8-bit handa veeo khel antar viksit aor manufactured by Nintendo .
It was released in japani on , in utar amriaa in , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy lakir , aor thay nirm by gunpei yokoi aor nento shadh & vikas 1 kaa vahi starf jau thaa designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998 , in the roop of khel ladke jebj , aor khel ladke layit ( japani tabhi ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is Nintendo 's second handheld system following the Game & Watch series introduced in , aor it sont chivien isse dano the nento entertainment prali aor khel & Watch .
It was originally bundled saah the puzzle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth pedhe of eeming , the khel ladke competed saah the sega khel gier , atari linnx , aor the turboexpress .
despite yaa anya technologically shath handl consoles , the Game Boy was a tremendous success .
The Game ladke aor isko successor , the khel ladke ranga , have both combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its release in the United States , it bechi isko sunnr sipment of one million units within weeks .
The World Trade Center is a complex of imarte antra nirman in nimnar mahate , nayi yaak nuagar , sont raay , replacing an pahlo complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original sanaar wapar bech prishit landrm juda minare , jisse khole on apryl 4 , 1973 aor yau destroyed in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along with 7 World Trade Center .
the anya imatre in the jatl yau chustit in the hamle , and their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers aor a marrolor to those maare in the attacks .
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the anya haar hain apeictt to be smapt before 2020 .
One World waar bech hoga be the seese bhann liya the nayi jatl , reaching adhek than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New York nuagar on arpyl 30 , 2012 , aor is apeittt to be smapt by 2013 .
A sixth minar is prictat pushi .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 sanaar wapar bech ( the dhasin minar ) , gyat collectively as the `` judwa minare '' , yaud the tallest buildings in the world .
The other imarte shaml 3 wtc ( the marat World Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
seb of yaa imarte yhoo nirm between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the nirman thay $ 400 million ( $ in dollars ) .
The complex was located in the dila of nayi yaak nuagar 's sharr vittiy jila and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 aor a dakati on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the sanaar wapar bech , patte the imarte to a private company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of sitabar 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda sandh hijackers udaya dho boing 767 jets into the complex , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour bada by the utar minar ( 1 ) , saah the hamle on the sanaar wapar Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined with fires that the debris initiated in anek surrounding imarte , led to the aanick or pura patan of seb the anya imatre in the jatl aor caused antrik damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The pram of clepn aor rirve at the World Trade Center site took eight months .
Over the following years , plans for a rebuilt sanaar wapar bech took form .
The pahlo nayi bhann at the sayit thay 7 sanaar Trade Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan Development nigm ( lmdc ) , sthpt in to oversee the punman prakm , visth competitions to select a site plan and memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by denil libeskind , was selected as the master plan , but this went through substantial changes in design .
The new sanaar wapar bech jatl hoga shaml eke sanaar wapar bech , three other high-rise office towers , and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San gibrill kyu
San Bernardino kyu , saah mt . sein gorgonio in the agri aor biga Bear Lake in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a group of pahad siemon of dhasinn cllaronri , in the prast coast siemon physiographic region in North America .
The Transverse siemon shoru at the dhasin smapt of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation , making them transverse to the general north-south anvicas of sabse of cllaronri 's tatiy kyu .
Periodic table with ilcorinn shewl
An electron shewl may be vichar of as an sakha followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` l shewl '' ) , tab the `` 3 shewl '' ( or `` m shewl '' ) , aor so on dhur aor dhur isse the nucleus .
The shell letters K , L , M , ... , used in the x-ray santee , hain varma .
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can hold up to dho electrons , the 2nd shewl can tham up to arth electrons , the 3rd shewl can thaam up to 18 , aor 4th shewl can thaam up to 32 and so on .
chunki electrons hain electrically achit to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement : ano may have dho or bhii tinn adhure bahari shewl .
( dekhi madelung niem liya more details . )
liya an sthatran of kyon electrons mood in yaa shewl see electron configuration .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shewl ( or shewl ) determine the rasino gune of the ano ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of eke or adhek subshells , aor pratke subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( kaa hogn ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa farr 8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained laccaria in plable , banne the 1993 Playmate of the Year .
She modeled for clothing compannon , sahit anda jeans and Lane Bryant .
Smith dropped out of unchi sula aor thay shadud in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J. hard marsha , 62 xalo uske varth , resulted in atkele kiya dho shadud the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
Following Marshall 's death , smith began a lengthy vidak batll over a share of uske estate .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a question of federal chastar , aor again on a sawal of dipana adalt phikarr ( abhi pukra stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel ruom as a pranamn of an overdose of nuska drugs .
Within the final six months of her life , smith thay the foose of a naciran dabae karva surrounding the mota of uske bete , deniyl , aor the paternity aor catdii battle over her newborn daughter , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of japani yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters gyat as the `` nayi scrit `` , aor yhoo bhii minted isse 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when , due to the much ucharr maana of the yaen , vey yhood minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing aut of the jala , saahh `` pach yean '' lika in kanji ; the waps is stamped saah `` japani '' aor the saal of samm , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent krshi aor fisheries , the kunje tatv of the Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a hole , vahi is a gier kiya represents industry .
It is the only Japanese coin in parnan to kami arbi numerals on either face .
TLC is an American ladki smoh jinke rangal spanned r & b , hep hoap , soul , funk , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' lopes aor singar rozonda `` chilli '' thamas , the smoh mila unprecedented kama in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law , each other , and the group 's record label .
Initially , tlc hasil wyniik kama following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
on the tlc tep , jisse sold 6 million copies worldwide .
however , it thay unko duori ellam , CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA kaa a first for a female smoh , aor hakar bechi 23 lakho naal wipyi .
Five years later , the group released their tisra ellam fanmail , jisse became the smoh 's pahlo ellam to deybua at cramak eke aor sold more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent daura following fanmails reezl became the utcham grossing daura of all time by a female band .
In 2002 , lisa `` baya nazar '' lopes died in a car accident in Honduras .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth ellam 3d , jisse bechi 2 lakho naal wisy , it prishit unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine crem tlc as eke of the greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four cramak eke singles , haarr multi-platinum allam , aor haar grami pukra .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as the satva sabse kamab adhinn of the 1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 , the smoh thay inducted into the seb samay hot 100 clakar ghol of kitri by the same magazine , at 56th place .
That saal it thay bhii sadhh as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million records wisy aor vey hain crem as the duori behatin selling mada smoh of seb time , and the best selling female R & B group of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 mataam mahlo in moc , hona crem the cramak eke seb ladke smoh on that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by walte dijne visha anmichin aor vitra by Walt Disney Pictures .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is based on the story Tarzan of the Apes by adgar rais baroj , aor is the tabhi prmuk gati hitrr sankan of the stori tarjan pripti to be aneemed .
Directed by Chris Buck aor coven lima saah a patha by tab marfi , bob tzudiker , aor noni swath , tarjan shuvian the aave of toni goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically aor $ 448,191,819 wisy , outgrossing isko purtive Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its utpann baje of $ 130 lakho bana it the sabse mahngi aniemed filli kahi bana , aabak topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It thay bhii the pahlo dijne anaemed visha to open at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This was the last major box daftr kama of the dijne Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible mach .
aal mach mittelplate in the North sea
An aala mach , ( offshore mach or colloquially aal rega ) is a visal dhana saah suwiani to drrli wells , to extract and process oil and natural gas , and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the mach contains suvithon to house the workforce as well .
Depending on the halto , the mach may be ficd to the smander manjil , may consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote subsea kuon may bhii be kante to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea kuon , or of eke or adhek manifold ceero liya multiple wells .
Slaughter is the hatya of pesu , usually that of domestic livestock for food .
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water bhains ( liya beff aor vila ) , seep , barkin ( liya mamne aor matnn ) , suar ( liya poak ) , ghode ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House , the president 's adhak nivas aor bech of the prashan
Under the United States Constitution , the addhs of the sont raay is the sair of raay aor sair of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a purre , the prissi is the utcham raaatic daftar in the sont raay by influence and recognition .
The president is also the commander-in-chief of the sont raay haraad shatiyan .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral kalag asal to pukra an nersp bhuut of maat to khoi witt ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951 , no person may be nicv addhs adhek than twice , aor no eke jau raai parosa adhek than dho xalo of a pada to jisse kisi else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , ista , or hatna isse daftar of an incumbent President , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President jarur be at tanik 35 xalo of aoo aor a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into daftar as addhcs following the autaan of the sont raay swanhann , jisse took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For American leaders before this autaan , dekhi addhs of the mapadi Congress .
The list does not shaml khoi ectiting rastyon antra the twenty-fifth amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover cloved parosa dho non-consecutive sharte aor is gine khraada as dano the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in daftar of pratic kanari ( liva hanir harsion , zachary tell , varvan G. harding , aor froniin D. rujvelt ) , haar you assassinated ( abram lincoln , gems A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first president , was adatan in 1789 bada a sarvat vote of the choni kalag .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 , aor frnchin D. rujvelt karhh the longest saahh over barah years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman , thay passed to seema the cramak of tammis an wiqtit can be nicv addhs .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , was the pahlo to be nicv by meen of seb varg in 1828 bada sabse kann barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first nicrm bada mahlo gained matad adhrol in 1920 .
ithes raad haar rastyoo kaa jaan q adms , rardod B. haze , bennnn Harrison and George W. Bush kaa who lost the popular vote but assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith , and the current addhs , barak uba , is the pahlo addhs of afri descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to niche : an uzi , an ar-15 , a heckler & koch khast rentik , a beretta 92FS , and a SIG Mosquito .
Bolt karve rimfire rail saahh suppressor
AWM-F snipir rail saah salaan suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator , is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and praha the rashi of muzzle flache , utnan by faaring the hathir .
A suppressor can be used both saahh a firearm aor saah sepii air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhani of a prash , vishar eke chalti teaj than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long ulaa suthing ( i.e . vrah than 300 mitr ) can lessen , or retard , the prat at the paal of praaav , aor banan the impression of silence near the target .
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel , halki subdued , is nahi muk at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the dhani of faaring by slowing the escaping propellant gaas aor sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around the beginning of the 20th sadi by anek aarika .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be ulna saahh hiram stavs khat , hiram prrsi 's pita , aor the aarika of the khat antar gaane ) , is credited saah inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave uske antar the trademarked name Maxim Silencer .
The muffler for internal combustion engines was developed in parallel with the firearm suppressor by khat in the jaldi 20th sadi , using anek of the vahi catcoon to provide quieter-running injan ( in anek uoriyp deso atmolo mufflers are still called silencers ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use , although it has since fallen out of favor with some , especially among the firearms udgo , hona replaced saah the adhek vasth steek pada dhani suppressor or baase suppressor , cuyi a `` dhani suppressor '' kurta nahi `` khasi '' any weapon , rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S. vidan bhasa hasan the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm mafar '' aor `` firearm silencer '' hain synonymous .
Suppressors were regularly used by aezen of the sont raay daftr of rentik sevan , jau favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II .
OSS Director William jasse `` genle dheek '' doon demonstrated the pistl liya addhs froniin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS shadh mukhy sthil lovel , doon ( an budha aor visewia dost of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his sansee , doon turned uske waps aor fired teen gilo into a sandbag he thad brought saah ussy , announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( khaas purahla kariila ) welrod hatya pistl saah an ahin suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
Beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13 , 1922 kaa April 25 , 2009 ) was an amri aahiti , comedienne , aor singar jinke karir spanned saat saako .
Arthur achieved fame as the ashrr maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms seb in the pravir aor maude , and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
A stet aahiti dano pahlo aor bada uske talvin kama , dho jeet the toni pukra liya behatin Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken veeo khel shari , idpit by ditalit frontier aor vitra by asmik ikka entertainment in samnh saah Bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in North America by Bandai Entertainment on julay 26 , 2011 , aor in alrtaor on julay 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It thay released on September 3 , 2011 in Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on nambar 22 , 2011 liya yusy , aor dismar 1 , 2011 for Japan .
This filli thay bhii released on dvd on nambar 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version only ) .
The film was additionally included with the PlayStation 3 khel , tekken sankar , aor the nento 3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a discussion of nonprofit , voluntary paros kalat smoh , dekhi paros association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate devar liya the purpose of wipan , monjing , and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit vittiy aor vidak jimar of the santhan , typically by transferring swatt of the samnh to the homeowners after selling off a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically a condition of kharde ; a khadrr is n't diye an kilk to asrvit it .
Most homeowner assionn hain incorporated , and are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal , aor mukth takes the roop of laws which are inconsistent from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association law , aor kuch raay , aisa as muctous , have vasth no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a shari kiya shaml planned-unit developments of single-family ghero , condominiums , aor sahari armeten .
chunki 1964 , homeowner assionnnn have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community assionn santhan wapar samnh anaut kiya hoas governed 24.8 lakho American homes and 62 million residents in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig jisse have marhu viksit chunki isko domestication ca . 5000 BC .
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose , ranging from show breeds with long , bahti iball to those in upag as maal jivo by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in anek kismo of rerlul ginne suor , jisse roop the adhar liya kuch of the adhunk rehlul breeds .
Early andean breeds yhuo primarily rakha as agricultural bhandar for food , and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era .
With the export of gine suor to uoripy in the 15th sadi , the lashy in pranan shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets .
To this end , various pradhi pranan santhan yhood sapit by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the amri ragho pranaak samnh , is the governing body in the United States and Canada .
The British cavy prashad governs cavy klab in the sont Kingdom .
Similar organizations mood in altrtara ( altriee nashl cavy prashad ) aor nayi jiland ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its own Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds hain yogya liya prish .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st sadi .
Though there are many breeds of Guinea pig , tabhi a few breeds hain commonly mila on the show table as pets .
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or were bred to be sukh paltu regardless of kasa khoo vey mile the nasal maank of purtna .
The short iball , abyssinian , peruvian aor sheltie ( urja silkie ) breeds hain those sabse asar seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their standard form , nearly seb breeds aiye in a satan variant .
Satins , due to their hollow hair shafts , possess coats of a khaas gloss and shine .
However , there is growing pram kiya the jeeno jimer liya the satan kote bhii can karnne severe bone problems , including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by kuch cavy pranak ' assionn because of animal welfare reasons .
All cavy breeds have some shared general manko : the sair prafilo chahe be rounded , saah visal aakhe aor large , smooth ears .
The body chahe be madar and of compact build .
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly parah aor thorough from root to tip .
These standards are best met by long sthpt , commonly karva breeds , as unko pranaak have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds , jisse have thaa khoo sthtp , pratk pranan lines for different colours .
State sulcoon ( bhii gyat as palc sulcoon or sarki sulcoon ) generally refer to prathak or dwitek sulcoon mandated for or offered to all children without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The term may also refer to santhon of post-secondary sisha vitt , in purre or in part , and overseen by government .
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules jinke anuom is nintr by the anurm of messenger RNA molecules .
This is jarri by seb jeena komiie and associated viruses .
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the yuni shom , arth `` deh '' ) is a visal aor jatl ann antar , mila bhitr seb jeena cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes kadi amno acids saahh in the anurm nirt by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules .
Ribosomes consist of two major kaa small ribosomal subunit padhe the mrna , abki the visal subunit joins amnoo acids to roop a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is rchit of eke or adhek ribosomal rna ( rrna ) molecules and a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many tammis into maxar rna ( mrna ) ganjor of a saaman sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mrna kadi aor uppg it as a memlee liya determining the sahi anuom of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected , collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA aoon ) , jisse daale eke bhag of the ramoo aor bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The salaan amno acids hain taba linked saahh by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is itpit , it can tab 'fold ' to upaj a vishit tarmak three-dimensional structure .
A ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and proteins aor is ssliy a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ramoo is viat into dho subunits : the choti subunit bantaa to the mrna pattern , while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino acids .
When a ramoo finishes padna an mrna molecule , these two subunits split apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp kiya kadi amnoo acids saah is performed by the ribosomal rna .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of jivan on darti ) differ in unko akar , anurm , dhcha , aor the anpat of protein to RNA .
The differences in dacha allow kuch atacbion to maar jivan by inhibiting unko ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a singl mrna kadi at eke samay , pratok `` padna '' isko anurm aor producing a samnin protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic koyie functionally resemble many features of those in bacteria , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert klodd , isyi de duve , aor zarg amli palade yaud jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to venkatraman ramanh , thamas A. steitz aor aide E. yonath liya determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The sarat atric dacha of a chloroplast
Overview of the calvin saylk and carbon fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis hain rasino pration kiya badle karbann dasioes aor anya compounds into glucose .
yaa pration occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the light-dependent pration aor perform further chemical processes on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively pukra the calvin saylk : karbann fixation , katate pration , aor ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , inse pram occurs tabhi jajb light is available .
Plants do not carry out the calvin saylk by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into the flumm isse unko mand reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the dyal of photosynthesis ( c3 karbann fixation , c4 karbann fixation , aor crassulacean asid chaye ) ; kamo padhe storr malic asid in unko vacuoles pratke ratri and release it by day in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a varar cramak or purna varar is an purnk kiya is the varar of an integer ; in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For udarnn , 9 is a varga number , since it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a number is nahi the utp , lackin the smatll ghaaak , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
the naam varar number comes from the name of the shape ; see below .
varar sakhnn are non-negative .
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) cramak is a varar cramak , is kiya isko varar roots are again integers .
For example , = kaa , so 9 is a varar cramak .
A positive integer kiya raai no purna varar divisors magar 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative purnk , the th vargar cramak is , with being the zeroth square .
The concept of varar can be vistar to kuch other number systems .
If rational numbers are included , then a square is the anpat of dho varar integers , aor , conversely , the ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , vahi hain varar sakhnn up to aor sahit , where the expression represents the floor of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the political ithes of the sont raay kiya reflected a chava of nashl purpose aor a khash liya unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter dlaat vivad between it aor the prabpl democratic-republican parti dauran the pahlo parti praliy .
President James muroo endeavored to downplay dlaat sandh in banana uske nominations , saah the pram lashy of nashl ekta aor eliminating partiyo altogether from national politics .
The period is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( kaa ) aor uske prashan lashy kiya uske naam aor the era hain vasth synonymous .
The era of shoh jambat hinht a pravatin in amri rajanti saah the smapt of the federalist parti as amrraa began to develop after the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the war with Britain , inse era bhii marks the pahlo udarnn of artheck parchysinn in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States jatl the tensh between the utar aor dhasin saah the coming of the pahlo vittiy crisis .
While the term kaa of Good kaa is usually viewed with vidna cuyi of the raaatic turmoil , arthec caron caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of kaa kaa is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive , vishar among gira bhitr the muroo prashan aor the rapblonn parti .
The phrase kaa of Good kaa was coined by Benjamin Russell , in the bostan federalist maatr , columbian centinel , on julay 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his good will tour of America .
Mariel marget `` miya '' hamm ( born kuch 17 , 1972 ) is a riated American professional soccer player .
Hamm played many xalo as a aage liya the sont raay malaon 's nashl sokar toli aor thay a founding sasy of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international lashy , adhek than khoi anya khili , pursh or mada , in the ithes of sokar aor is the tisra sabse capped female player in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that award was diye ( in 2001 aor 2002 ) , aor is sudhh as eke of phfa 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by kaa ) .
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of kitri as khoo as the alama khel ghol of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and Life and appeared in the HBO documentary Dare to Dream : the stori of the u.S. mahlo 's sokar toli .
vashitnn posti columnist maical wilbon pukra hamm , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a khone kick .
The New York Red bulls is an amri pesher sokar toli aarat in harsion , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The team competes in the poove smalne of prmuk League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS , having competed in the ling chunki isko inception .
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ) , laciin raai gayi through anek naam pravatin .
The team was originally gyat as the nayi york/new jarsi metrostars through 1997 .
From the 1998 ritu through the 2005 ritu , the toli thay known as the MetroStars .
On March 9 , 2006 , the toli thay bechi to redd sand gmbh , agrin to the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any significant trofi ( sahit nimat ritu , playoffs , aor naat pritiyo ) chunki inception .
The team 's best prinamin in the mls thay the mls khep naila in 2008 .
In the US Open Cup , the metrostars phonch tinn semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , pahlo reaching unko pahlo final in 2003 , losing kaa to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 , 2000 , the metros ' cletin mathis niyat an mls rakar by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known khili kiya have niya liya the toli shaml giovanni savarese , timat hard , toni meola , tab ramos , alexi lalas , cllit mathis , Jozy Altidore , Michael Bradley , Claudio Reyna , Eddie Pope , Roberto Donadoni , Lothar kaa , Adolfo Valencia , Youri Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan Pablo kaa , Thierry Henry , Juninho Pernambucano , Jan Gunnar Solli , Rafael kaa , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had well-known coaches , including Carlos Queiroz , Carlos Alberto Parreira , Bora kaa , Bob bralli , mo johnston , bross arana aor hans backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in the litang sthali portraying tinn meen hans by a nadi strim , 12th century , Song Dynasty .
estimating the cramak of baddo in the sanaar , or in anek deso , is difficult due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with , the dharm mattoo , practices , aor pahan of istt ashiya ( jau comprise the bhuut of the sanaar 's baddo by any measure ) often blend Buddhism with other traditions including Confucianism , the Chinese folk religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite autunn of adherence aisa as lene sharn , banana it muskl to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An additional challenge is the hostility of several national governments ( often Communist ones such as China or utar korri ) to dharm generally or to buddhism specifically .
sarkr netooon in yaa deso may pritit the under-reporting or non-reporting of dharm adherence , resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide baddh yankise daura isse 350 lakho to over eke arab , laciin cletser nearer to the first figure .
adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a pigar of 397 million .
By major branches , the sakhnn hain as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including istt asyy buddhism , saah no kaam than 185 lakho adherents , aor sansht several times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in chhin , dhasin korri , japani , taava , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada buddhism , saah no kaam than 125 million adherents .
This is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in candada , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana buddhism , saah lagch 20 million adherents .
This form predominates in the greater tibbi aor magllone regions , as khoo as in the himle .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various territories within kaya is abhi pushi chhin , jaran is pragat to nisht regions of roos ( e.g . kalaicaa , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as tibbi buddhism , is praha conflated saahh tantik buddhism , laciin inse is imprecise , as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra .
At least 7 deso ( shari lanka , thaldh , candamaa , laaos , barma , butun , and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other istt asyy adherents , inse pigar might vistar to shaml several more countries .
In addition , buddhism is the raay dharm of candamaa aor bhutan , aor receives prominent zikr in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In northern India and Nepal , the land where Buddhism thay born , the dharm severely asvec dauran the pahlo milaum .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of northern India , or to anya carom , remains visad .
See the article manhi of buddhism in India .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 kaa August 2 , 1876 ) , better gyat as genle dheeek hickok , thay a lauk naic of the amri Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his reputation as a lawman , provided the adhar liya uske kitri , halik kuch of uske reported karna are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went west at age 18 as a bhode isse infas , pahlo working as a stagecoach dravrr , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
he lada liya the samnh foj dauran the amri Civil War , and gained publicity after the war as a scout , marksman , actor , and professional gambler .
Between his law-enforcement karva aor juye , jisse easily overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and maare abki playing pokar in the nuttal & mann 's sellon in Deadwood , Dakota Territory ( now South Dakota ) .
Artist 's conception of the jigsa rover vaporizing chatan on Mars .
The rover utara on mangl in agst 2012 .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself across the surface of the graha magal bada lending .
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : vey jache adhek territory , vey can be nisdh to dilap shuvien , vey can plale themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control .
There have been four kamab robotically sanhls magal rovers .
The Jet Propulsion Laboratory pranh the magal pathfinder mishan aor its now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the magal khoji rover mishan 's crisyol asar rover aor inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or more accurately , an audit of vittiy kathan , is the satan of the vittiy kathan of a vidak entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute parkh , kiya the vittiy kathan hain prust fairly , in seb samri respects , and/or deya a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
the purpose of an aedit is provide aor udshy swatt praksa of the vitti kathan , jisse increases the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management , thus increase user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of capital of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing khal jau hain visha in vittiy roptoting .
The financial audit is one of anek parkh krtoya provided by accounting firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire atric auditors , jau do nahi attest to vitti ripatas lackin foss mukth on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose to plale simit rilans on the karya of atric auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the vittiy disclosures bana by an santhan , ssli hota likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the anthriy manko on auditing ( isa ) gari by the anthrie Auditing and Assurance Standards Board ( IAASB ) is considered as the benchmark for audit process .
Almost all jurisdictions aakta auditors to follow the isa or a laol vinta of the ISA .
Dollar coins have marhu minted in the sont raay in sunha , silver , and base metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar , halik purists zidd kiya a doller is nahi candi aabak it contains kuch of that metal .
Silver dollars , the first doller sikka sammy , yau minted shurt in 1794 .
Gold dollars and gold-colored dollars have also marhu itpit by the sont States .
The sacagawea aor addhisya doller hain often referred to as `` golden dollars '' .
In adhuok tammis , doller sikke have nahi marhu bhoot lercori in the United States .
Despite efforts by the sarki to prahr unko uppg , sabse amrie fihal use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In sidha aor sthrr udan lifti ( L ) equals weight ( W ) .
In a banked farr of kaa , lifti barai dona the weight ( L=2W ) .
The palte anboo 2g aor a doubled weight .
The steeper the banko , the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate isse shoni to in 0.86 senda .
This is a horizontal twarn of 5.3 g. sont saahh the lantov g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a pada liya accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a fors , prti se , laciin a force per unit mass .
Since such a force is perceived as a weight , any g-force can be varn as a `` wazan prti kayi draman '' ( dekhi the parya visht weight ) .
The g-force twarn adhiomn as a gunk of weight-like shatiya liya pratke kayi of an aakt 's draman , aor ( shej liya nisht elarctitinn fors influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This twarn anve by an aakt is due to the vaktor yug of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations kiya hain nahi itpit by gartta hain termed uchat accelerations , aor it is only these that are measured in g-force units .
They cause tanoo aor strains on seste .
Because of these strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force , bhii halki g-forces hain expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
Thus , the standard gurakh twan at the darti 's surface produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the darti 's satah is caused by mechanical fors exerted in the upward disha by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the ground ensures kiya an aakt at baaki on the darti 's satah is accelerating seps to the free-fall condition , which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects allowed to free-fall in an inertial trajectory antra the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely girna lifti girna toward the darti 's bech ( in kauk ) , or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are udarnn of nerakh twarn ( a badle in velocity ) without a sensation of weight .
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is idpit , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the aunsiti of gurakh filled , or in dishan at sahi kaun to unhe , uchat aor nerakh accelerations are the same , and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example here is a rocket in free space , in which saral pravatin in gati hain produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a lituus , the curved wand praha prutt as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur thay a pujar aor adhak in the sastir world , especially ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to interpret the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds : whether they hain udte in smoh or alon , kaya noises they make as they fly , direction of flight and what kind of birds they are .
This was gyat as `` lene the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur thay contrl to khoi prmuk undertaking in roman kaa or kaa matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not know kiya inse nuagar thay sapit tabhi bada lene the auspices , kiya subk in hudd aor in salam , at home and abroad , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent community in southeastern mixangn .
It is the duori largest nuagar in alcold County in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population thay 79,740 at the 2010 yankise .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of mahagar detr and is also northeast of downtown Ann Arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United raay , as khoo as in the raay of Michigan .
In 2010 , the area crem as the 30th safest nuagar in amrraa .
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses , Farmington and Farmington Hills hain praha vichar of as the vahi jatio .
Features of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , wart galri , aor palcic paak sahit Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites sahit the longacre haas aor the rajal Warner Mansion .
Both cities are served by farmington palcic Schools .
Farmington Hills serves as a prmukh caaar bech for the greater Detroit area .
present-day chhap of a Late Bronze Age seal
Town muhrr ( matrix ) of kaa from 1570
A seal is a antar liya banana an chhap in mamo , mitti , pepar , or kuch anya medium , including an embossment on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The original purpose was to authenticate a dastav , a wrapper liya eke aisa as a adhunk lifa , or the kaar of a container or package holding valuables or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould , with the final image represented on the device for banana the chhap by a mirror-image denain , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred to as the muhr mentric or die ; the imprint it creates as the muhrr chhap ( or , adhek rarely , the sealing ) .
If the chhap is bana purely as a rahta resulting isse the vrah dawao on the pepar jaha the unchi bhag of the mentric tach , the muhr is gyat as a shusk seal ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of a seal may be vistar to shaml barr stamps , or likne specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United States , the word `` muhr '' is sometimes abnit to a facsimile of the muhrr denain ( in marom or ranga ) , jisse may be prutt in a kismo of contexts sahit architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears on the reverse of the one-dollar dheek ; aor anek of the seals of the u.S. raay appear on unko sandhit raay dhaj .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as on seals , the seal dijanin in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is gyat as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day ( penalaiia jarni : grundsaudaag , murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy jajb a groundhog emerges isse isko burrow on inse dena , tab vastn hoga aiye jaldi ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow , and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where jaldi morning taar hain aagt to dekhe the groundhog ubrte isse its burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the aaak saah fersommlinge , sohll karm in jisse khana is parosa , bhano hain bana , aor eke or adhek g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment .
The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event , aor those jau bolo angrij ada a dand , praha in the roop of a nikle , dime , or cwar prti word spoken , with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table .
the largest groundhog dena jasna is aag in punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog dena , already a widely pahan aor lercoria paraa , prapt faili dhaan as a prinamin of the 1993 filli groundhog dena , jisse thay niyat in punxsutawney , PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High reus hitrr of tampa khadi region
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate ( koppen cfa ) , saah garma aor ardr greesh saah baar thunderstorms aor drier dardiyon saah jamne temperatures occurring every kaa years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the salan varhh japlat in the months of June through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( usdi ) as hona in hardiness mandl 10 , jisse is prachy the utare seema of jaha coconut palms and royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range between 65 aor 95 kaa ( 18 aor 35 kaa ) year round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's official high has never reached 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the nuagar 's all-time rekar tapan is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
St. pirta 's all-time rakar unchi is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the galf of masko , aor much of the nuagar of tampa suth on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to large bodies of water both moderates temperatures aor introduces visal amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges , dano dauran a singl dena aor throughout the seean of the year .
A diagram of the elactictenne nark , prish vinnn gune aar the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic nark is the daura of seb sansit barbant of elactictenne radiation .
The `` electromagnetic nark '' of an aakt raai a alag arth , aor is bajay the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The elactictenne nark extends isse niche the kaam barbant prutt liya adhunk rediow sanchar to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , abki it is vichar kiya the choti wavelength seema is in the vicinity of the plaak lambai , halic in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and anya probing interactions , as trrke to padha aor characterize matter .
In addition , radiation from various parts of the nark raai mila anek anya uppg liya sanhar aor nirman ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
lende
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 kaa April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , FDR , was the 32nd President of the United States ( kaa ) aor a contrl pigar in sanaar karm dauran the mid-20th sadi , agrin the sont raay dauran a samay of wipyi economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New sade ganbhann kiya realigned amri rajanti bada 1932 , as uske rehlul netyo parah amri udatad liya the madhy third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme , fdr prat lajim rapblonn harbat huoar in nambar 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over poloy , fdr 's unfailing ashad aor sacrtaor contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely saah angoe prahan mantri vinsant charchl aor sovet samay Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt parthran prmuk vidan aor gari a profusion of kariila adesh kiya instituted the nayi sade kaa kismo of karm designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but then relapsed into a gahne mandi .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished anek of the rahta karm jajb bargii diminished dauran sanaar War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended about kaa , magar liya the vinnim of waale goli by the proti aor ecchsng aag , jisse still exists .
Along with several choti karm , prmuk surviving karm shaml the sanhhy jama bima nigm , jisse was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic aor vittiy support to chhin aor gree bretten , abki baaki officially neutral .
His goal was to meke amrraa the `` arsel of laktar `` which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided lend-lease shota to the deso lada virdh Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the japani arman on parla haarb on dismar 7 , 1941 , colling it a `` tithi which will live in infamy `` .
he prvashat the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the shikt of the ash shatiyo aor the vikas of the sanaar 's pahlo atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 japani amri naaoi .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew rapidly to nayi hattas as lakho of logo stint to nayi karya in hudd centers , aor 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American raaatic saaki nahi tabhi dauran the barah xalo of uske presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of mataa kiya nirm the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal ganbhann sont madrur samnh , biga nuagar mashen , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also influenced the later creation of the sont rashra aor Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top tinn u.S. rastyoo , saah saahh Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological sthit as `` a choti bayn of center . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is prutt to refer to a kamit bana up of saxy of both chambers of a bicameral legislature .
In other contexts , it refers to a kamiti saahh saxy isse adhek than one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated shatiyo of the sanhhy sarki ; antra the daswa amendment to the sont raay swanhann , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , vastiv is maano a misdemeanor in the shari of public order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at eke samay maano to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow brothel vasti , the sharte of jisse hain stipulated in the nafa Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently contain crisyol brothels .
seb form of vasti hain illegal in claak kanti ( jisse contains the lalaa kaa mahag chartela ) , Washoe County ( which contains Reno ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The other counties theoretically allow vashl vasti , lackin kuch of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a vash remain illegal antra nafa vidhi , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution in the United States can be viat into tinn wapa shari : goli vastiv , vashl vastiv , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) pratia saahh swath , saahh a blon aatar in the kantan ( referred to specifically as the `` samnh '' ) bearing paaas choti , swath , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen angoe colonies kiya hogt swatta isse the kidam of gree bretten aor became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '' , `` budha mahima `` , aor `` the star-spangled Banner . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight raay aor saath samnh territories .
The states and territories are further subdivided into giele and so on .
congressional giele liya the 113th United States Congress
2010 yankis change:
