A partly submerged glacier cave  on  Perito Moreno Glacier .
The ice facade is  लगभग 60 m  high
Ice formations in the  titlis  glacier cave
A  हिमानी  cave is a cave formed within the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves are often called ice caves , but this term is properly  used to  describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the circumference of a circle  or रोटेशन साथ a गोलाकार  path .
It   can be uniform , with constant angular rate of rotation ( and constant speed ) , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation around a fixed axis of a  three-dimensional  body involves circular motion of its parts .
The equations of motion describe the   movement of the center of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height , a stone which is tied to a rope and is being swung in circles , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear  turning अंदर a यांत्रिकी  .
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly changing direction , the moving object is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of  रोटेशन  .
Without this acceleration , the object would move in a straight  line , according  to Newton 's laws of motion .
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films , initially portrayed  as the  Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World .
He was played by  कार्ल  Weathers .
पंथ था अनेक nicknames , सहित the निपुण of विपत्ति , the किंग of स्टिंग , the नाचना विनाशक , the प्रिंस of पंच , the एक और तभी और the  Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that  अपोलो  Creed 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed , a statement of belief used in Christian churches .
All of Apollo 's  चैंपियनशिप झगड़े  were scheduled for the 15 round distance .
Championship fights did not convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until  1987  .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed was the first man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in  the 5th किश्त ) हालांकि सामान्यतः he  wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature colors were black and  gold—colors he प्रयुक्त  in the latest movie .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually  अर्थात् a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by  the President of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter  , acts of Congress have  established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such  स्थितियाँ  include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as  `` Article III  judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the   Court of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate ,  और उनके शक्ति गर्भाशयी इससे आलेख  I instead .
See Article  i  and Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol  designed  by Beretta in Italy .
Production began  in  late 1984 , solely in the Beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , whose production  ended in  1985 .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of life insurance that  builds a नकदी  value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate accounts , similar to mutual funds , and the choice of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to  the  contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate   accounts whose values vary—they vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets .
The 'universal ' component in the name  refers to  the flexibility the owner has in making premium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given  month up to  maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code for life insurance .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life  insurance  that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium Loan feature , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance , because the death benefit will be paid if the insured dies any time as  long as वहीँ  is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs ,  नापसंद पूरे जीवन , वहीँ  is no endowment age ( the age at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another key  लाभ  of VUL over Whole Life .
With a typical whole life policy , the death benefit is limited to the face amount specified in the policy , and at endowment age , the  फेस राशि  is all that is paid out .
Thus with either death or endowment ,   the insurance company keeps any cash value built up over the years .
However , some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify  that any  dividends paid on the policy be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time .
If investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the general account of the insurance company , a higher rate-of-return can occur  than the फिक्स्ड rates-of-return  typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy , this could result  in  higher value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the  क्लासिक  wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to interior buildings .
A mound of Girl Scout  कुकीज़  .
This mound  contains  74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout  कुकीज़ हैं कुकीज़ बेची by लड़की स्काउट of the यूएसए ( gsusa ) as एक of इसके प्रमुख fundraisers लिये लोकल स्काउट इकाई .
सदस्यों of the gsusa have महरूम selling कुकीज़ चूंकि 1917 to उठाएँ निधि  .
Girls who participate can earn prizes for  उनके  efforts .
There are also unit incentives if the unit as a  पूरे करता  well .
As of 2007 , sales were  अनुमानित  at about 200 million boxes per year .
University  हॉल
Purdue   University , located in West Lafayette , Indiana , is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly , taking advantage of the Morrill Act , accepted a donation of land and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue  to establish a  college of science , technology , and agriculture in his name .
The  पहला वर्ग यहूद आयोजित  on September 16 , 1874 , with six instructors and 39 students .
Today  , purdue  is a member of the Big Ten Conference , and is a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the fourth largest international student population of   any university in the United States .
Purdue offers both undergraduate and  graduate programs  in over 211 major areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation ,  having स्थापित the पहला कॉलेज क्रेडिट offered  in flight training , the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation , and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's aviation technology program remains one of the most competitive  aviation-specific  programs in the world .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's  aviation program  expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , including Gus Grissom ( one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts )  , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to  walk on the moon ) , and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term that loosely refers  to  either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles , by definition , neither  प्रकार of गाँठ is सख्ती a वसामय गाँठ  .
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid material in  both  of these cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the microscope neither entity contains  वसामय  glands .
In practice ,  however , the शर्तें  are often used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and  हैं ज्ञात  as steatocystomas or , if multiple , as steatocystoma multiplex .
Modern pointe  जूते  .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot and toe box  लिये cushioning , can be  seen on the right foot .
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers when  performing  pointe work .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their  toes )  for extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies  ऐसे as  Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured  in a  variety of colors , most commonly in shades of light pink .
This tablespoon has a capacity of  परिचय  15 mL .
measuring  Spoons
In the US and parts of Canada , a tablespoon is the largest  type of spoon  used for eating from a bowl .
In the UK , Europe and most  राष्ट्रमंडल  countries , a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving .
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving  spoon , the nearest  equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon .
A  tablespoonful  , nominally the capacity of one tablespoon , is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is abbreviated as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp  ,  or tblspn .
The  क्षमता of ordinary  tablespoons is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining  utensil ) सीमाएँ  from 7 mL to 14 mL .
In Australia one  tablespoon ( मापन  unit ) is 20 mL .
Harry  कुम्हार  is a series of seven fantasy novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , Harry Potter , and  उसके मित्रों  Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger , all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose aims are to become immortal , conquer the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical people , and destroy all those who  स्टैंड in उसके रास्ता , विशेषकर  Harry Potter .
चूंकि the रिलीज of the पहला  novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 June 1997 , the books have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The series has also had some share of  criticism ,  including concern for the increasingly dark tone .
, the book series has sold about 450 million copies , making it the best-selling book series in history , and has been  अनूदित into  67 languages .
The last four books   consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in history .
A series of many genres , including  काल्पनिक और coming of आयु (  with elements of mystery , thriller , adventure , and romance ) , it has many cultural meanings and references .
According to Rowling , the main  थीम  is death .
There are also many other  विषयवस्तु  in the series , such as prejudice and corruption .
The  आरंभिक प्रमुख प्रकाशक of the किताबे यहूद bloomsbury in the संयुक्त किंगडम और scholastic दबायें in the संयुक्त राज्य .
The books have since been published   by many publishers worldwide .
The books , with the seventh book split into two parts , have been made into an  eight-part फिल्मी श्रेणी  by Warner Bros. Pictures , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
The series also  originated  much tie-in merchandise , making the Harry Potter brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the  किताबे और films , हैरी कुम्हार रै महरूम  used for a theme park , The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
RS-68 being tested at NASA  's stennis  Space Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust being mostly superheated  steam (  water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C  प्रक्षेपास्त्र  engine
A rocket engine , or simply `` rocket '' , is a jet engine that uses only stored  propellant  mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket engines are reaction engines and obtain  thrust in  accordance with Newton 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form  उनके जेट , प्रक्षेपास्त्र  engines can be used for spacecraft propulsion as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket engines are internal combustion engines   , although non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest  exhaust गतियाँ ,  are by far the lightest , but are the least propellant efficient of all types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a song by  अमरीकी रिकॉर्डिंग  artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut  सिंगल और शीर्षक  track from her debut studio album , ... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by  Max Martin and  produced by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby One More Time '' was released on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After recording and sending a demo tape  साथ  an unused song from Toni Braxton , Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... baby एक अधिक समय '' is a टीन पॉप और dance-pop सोंग कि refers to a लड़की जो संताप तोड़कर  up with her boyfriend .
The song received generally favorable  समीक्षाएँ  from critics , who praised its composition .
`` ... Baby One More Time  ''  attained global success , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the world , and is one of the best-selling singles of all time  , with over 10 million  copies sold .
an accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो , निर्देशित by निगेल लंड , portrays स्पीयर्स as a छात्र इससे a कैथोलिक ऊँची स्कूल , जो starts to daydream कि वो is गायन और नाचना around the स्कूल , जबकि watching उसके प्रेम ब्याज इससे अफ़ार .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , where Spears 's fictional daughter is dressed with a similar schoolgirl  पहनावा जबकि wearing  pink ribbons in her hair .
In 2010 , the music video for `` ... Baby One More Time '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music , in a  पोल आयोजित  by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby   One More Time '' in a number of live appearances and in all of her concert tours .
it थी the encore of the ... baby एक अधिक समय दौरे ( 1999 ) और सपना भीतर a सपना दौरे ( 2001 ) ; स्पीयर्स भी performed remixed संस्करण of the सोंग दौरान the उफ़ ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , The Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , and the Femme  fatale दौरे ( 2011 )  .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance ,  और रै महरूम शामिल in  lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted for redefining the sound of late  1990s  music .
Spears has named `` ...  baby एक  More Time '' as one of her favorite songs from her career .
It was also the final song to be played on the BBC 's music  कार्यक्रम शीर्ष  of the Pops .
हैजा  is an infection in the small intestine caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
The main symptoms are  watery  diarrhea and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating  food that has been  contaminated by the feces ( waste product ) of an infected person , including one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the   diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and electrolyte imbalance , and death in some cases .
The primary treatment is oral rehydration therapy , typically with oral rehydration solution ,  to replace  water and electrolytes .
If this is not  tolerated or  does not provide improvement fast enough , intravenous fluids can also be used .
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with severe disease to shorten its  अवधि  and severity .
Worldwide , it affects 3–5 million  लोगों  and causes 100,000–130,000 deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological   methods .
The Picture of  डोरियन धूसर is the तभी प्रकाशित अनोखा by ऑस्कर वाइल्ड , appearing as the सीसे स्टोरी in lippincott 's मासिक पत्रिका on 20 जून 1890 , मुद्रित as the जुलाई 1890 समस्या of इस पत्रिका .
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as submitted , so they censored roughly 500 words  , without Wilde  's knowledge , before publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers , some of whom suggested that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading Wilde to  बचाव the अनोखा aggressively  in letters to the British press .
Wilde later revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations , deleting controversial passages ,   adding new chapters and including an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own right .
The amended version was published by Ward , Lock and  कम्पनी  in April 1891 .
Some scholars   believe that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells  of  a young man named Dorian Gray , the subject of a painting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with  उसे , believing उसके सौंदर्य  is responsible for a new mode in his art .
Dorian  meets  Lord Henry Wotton , a friend of Basil 's , and becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism , Lord Henry suggests the only things worth   pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses .
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a  ख्वाहिश to बेचें उसके आत्मा to  ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect each act has upon his  आत्मा , साथ प्रत्येक सिन प्रदर्शित  as a disfigurement of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered a  कार्य  of classic Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
Sári Gábor ( born  6  February 1917 ) , known as Zsa Zsa Gabor ( ) , is a Hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
Gabor was  भी  a socialite .
वो began उसके स्टेज करियर in वियना at आयु 15 , और थी पहनाया मिस हंगेरियाई in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after  अभिनेत्री साथ `` यूरोपीय फ्लेयर और स्टाइल  '' , with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first  फिल्म भूमिका  was as supporting actress in Lovely to Look At .
वो बाद  acted in We 're Not Married !
and played one of her  few  leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , directed by John Huston , who described her as a `` creditable '' actress .
Besides her film and television appearances , she is best known for having nine husbands , including hotel magnate Conrad  हिल्टन और कर्ता जार्ज  Sanders .
She once stated , ``  मेन  have always liked me and I have always liked men .
But I like a mannish man , a man who knows how to  बात to और  treat a woman – not just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 – 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese  अमरीकी martial  artist , actor , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of  जीत kune do , ली थी  the son of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely considered by commentators , critics , media and other martial artists to be one of the most  influential  martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited with helping to change the  रास्ता एशियाइ  were presented in American films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San  फ्रांसिस्को on 27 नवम्बर 1940 to  parents from Hong Kong and was raised in Kowloon with his family until his late teens .
He was introduced to the film industry by his father and   appeared in several films as a child actor .
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive his higher education , and it was during this time  कि he began शिक्षण  martial arts .
उसके हांग काँग और हॉलीवुड -उपजd films elevated the परंपरागत हांग काँग martial कला फिल्मी to a नई स्तर of लोकप्रियता और acclaim , sparking a surge of ब्याज in चाइनीज martial कला in the वेस्ट in the 1970s .
The direction   and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong Kong and the rest of the world .
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length  films  : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , directed and written by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world , particularly among the Chinese ,  as  he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring instead the use of techniques from various sources , in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy , which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way  of the intercepting मुट्ठी  ) .
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong Kong and  the  United States .
He died in  कोलून  Tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the  फेफड़े in जिससे the एयरवेज़  narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and from  the  lungs , causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ) .
In clinical practice , COPD is defined by  इसके characteristically  low airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma , this limitation is poorly  reversible और प्रायः  gets progressively worse over time .
COPD  is  caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly from tobacco smoking , which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung .
The diagnosis of COPD requires lung function tests  .
महत्वपूर्ण प्रबन्धन रणनीति हैं धूम्रपान cessation , vaccinations , पुनर्वास , और ड्रग चिकित्सा ( प्रायः  using inhalers ) .
Some patients go on   to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as  the छठे अग्रणी  cause of death in 1990 .
It is projected to become the fourth leading  कारण  of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes in many countries .
COPD is the third leading cause of  मौत in the u.S. , और the आर्थिक  burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( ,  ? , ; 12  June 1929early March 1945 ) is one of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust .
Her  डायरी रै महरूम  the basis for several plays and films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany , she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam , in the  नीदरलैंड्स  .
Born a German national , Frank lost her  नागरिकता  in 1941 .
She gained international fame posthumously after  उसके डायरी  was published .
It documents  her  experiences hiding during the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933 , the year the Nazis  gained  control over Germany .
By the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the   Netherlands .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942 , the family went  into  hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After two years , the  समूह थी  betrayed and transported to concentration camps .
Anne Frank and  उसके सिस्टर , margot , यहूद आखिरकार transferred to the bergen-belsen विशेषज्ञता शिविर , जहाँ वे died of सन्निपात in कूच 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family , returned to Amsterdam after the war to find   that Anne 's diary had been saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
It was translated from its original Dutch and first published in  अंग्रेज़ी  in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has since been  अनूदित into अनेक  languages .
The diary , which was given to Anne on her 13th birthday , chronicles her life from 12 June  1942  until 1 August 1944 .
Kurt 's  हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 – April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and  कलाकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the  lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed  Nirvana  with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success  साथ  `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation  X , and Cobain  hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal issues often  subject to media  attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with  इसके फाइनल  studio album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his   life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness and depression .
He also  था परेशानी coping  with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle , the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted  shotgun घाव to the सिर  .
The circumstances  of  his death at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with  कोबेन as a  songwriter , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
Radial engine timing and   cam mechanism .
Click for full resolution animation   .
Radial  इंजन  of a biplane
Master rod ( upright ) , slaves and balances from  a two-row , fourteen-cylinder  Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from  a central  crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a  stylized स्टार  when viewed from the front , and is called a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft engines before turbine  इंजन  became predominant .
The Golden  लड़कियों is an अमरीकी  sitcom , created by Susan Harris , that originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur , Betty White , Rue  mcclanahan और  Estelle Getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was produced by  witt/thomas/harris  Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and Paul Junger Witt , Tony Thomas , and Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards , including the Primetime Emmy Award for  बकाया  Comedy Series twice .
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for Best Television Series – Musical  or कॉमेडी  .
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the series ' run  and  had multiple nominations .
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out of  इसके सात सीज़न  .
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas exploration and production   in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this definition , there are  लगभग 600  deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has been economically infeasible for many years ,  लकिन साथ उठती  oil prices , more companies are investing in this area .
प्रमुख कंपनियाँ working in इस सेक्टर शामिल डायमंड offshore , transocean , और बेकर ह्यूजेस .
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible  खुदाई  rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( platform  ) or  tension-leg platform .
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in the global deepwater infrastructure   market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
“Not all oil is accessible on land or in shallow   water .
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean floor.” ... Using sonic equipment , oil  कंपनियाँ  determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling unit  ( मोदू ) to खुदाई the आरंभिक  well .
Some units are converted into production rigs , meaning they  स्विच इससे खुदाई लिये  oil to capturing oil once it 's found .
Most of the time , the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production rig to capture  oil.” ... the मोदू 's जॉब is to ड्रिल  down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits .
The part of the drill that extends  नीचे the डेक और through  the water is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to move between the floor  और  the rig .
Engineers lower a drill  string -- a series of  pipes designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the riser.”
“The expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields  ...  ”
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP  आयल रिग  was drilling in deep waters .
“ ... Despite the risks , the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off  the  coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“the कारण  for the resumption of such drilling , analyst say , is continuing high demand for energy worldwide.”
अमेरिका  needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come with deepwater drilling in order for Americans to continue to carry on their everyday lives .
“The Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels  a day  , still nearly a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by 2020.”
Deepwater drilling affects the environment in  दोनो  negative and positive ways .
हालांकि deepwater खुदाई rarely कल्याणकारी आयल spills it is स्टिल a hazardous संभावित निष्कर्ष .
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the  bottom of  the ocean smothering plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive .
On the  अन्य हाथ deepwater  drilling effects the environment in a positive ways too .
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in use anymore plants will grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern  like  shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the  depths of the ocean  floor that are hardly ever seen .
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take photos of rare fish that are in there natural habitat  , giving  scientist a look at animals they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill  क्लिंटन admitted to  having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which included   Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , ( December 12 , 1915  – may 14 ,  1998 ) was an American singer and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found  unprecedented कामयाबी as a  solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he  released उसके पहला  album , The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s , but it was reborn in 1953 after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for  his  performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and  released  several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come Fly with Me , Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert  सिनात्रा & अंतोनियो कार्लोस jobim ) ,  toured internationally , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including John F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , starred in the Emmy -winning television special Frank Sinatra : A Man and His Music , and scored  हिट्स साथ `` अजनबी in the रात्रि `` और  `` My Way `` .
With sales  of उसके  music dwindling and after appearing in several poorly received films , Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came out of  रिटायरमेंट  and in 1973 recorded several albums , scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base , he toured both within the United States and internationally , until a short  समय पहले उसके मौत  in 1998 .
Sinatra also forged a highly successful  करियर  as a film actor .
बाद जीतना बेहतरीन supporting कर्ता in 1953 , he भी garnered a नामांकन लिये बेहतरीन कर्ता लिये the man साथ the सुनहरी भुजा , और नाजुक acclaim लिये उसके प्रदर्शन in the मंचूरियन प्रत्याशी  .
He also starred in such musicals as High Society , Pal Joey , Guys and Dolls and  on the  Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985  और the congressional सुनहरा  Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy   Awards , including the Grammy Trustees Award , Grammy Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra is also one of world’s  best-selling  artists of all time , having sold more than 150 million copies worldwide .
Typical cornhole   board
Cornhole , also known as bean bag toss , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing  मकई  hole bags at a raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in the  छेद  scores 3 points , while one on the platform scores 1 point .
Play continues until  a  team or player reaches the score of 21 .
The American Gold Eagle is an official   gold bullion coin of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold  bullion  Coin Act of 1985 , it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system  of yoga that  Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 minutes and consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises   .
Bikram  Yoga is ideally  practiced in a room heated to 105°F ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian and rapper best known for starring as Michael Barret in  निकलोडियन टेलीविज़न  series Zoey 101 .
Massey has received many awards and nomination including a Young Artist  पुरस्कार और  Emmy Awards nominations .
He is also known for  appearing  in several commercials in the early 2000s .
A conventional  teaspoon  made of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is  an मद  of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as well as a unit of measurement of volume in some countries and customs .
a फर्न is कोई एक or अधिक of a समूह of परिचय 12,000 प्रजाति of पौधे belonging to the वनस्पति समूह ज्ञात as pteridophyta  .
Unlike mosses  , they  have xylem and phloem ( making them vascular plants ) .
They have stems , leaves , and roots like   other vascular plants .
Ferns  reproduce  via spores and have neither seeds nor flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails  , whisk  ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants (  देखिए  classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not appear until roughly 145 million  years ago in  the early Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but some are grown or gathered for food , as ornamental plants , for remediating contaminated soils , and  have महरूम the  subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some  हैं significant  weeds .
They also  खेल a भूमिका  in mythology , medicine , and art .
Flat roofs in  इसराईल
Flat  छत  in Los Angeles
A flat roof is a type of covering  लिये a भवन  .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat roof is  आड़ा  or nearly horizontal .
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is   said to increase ) .
Any sheet  of सामग्री प्रयुक्त to कवर a चपटा or low-pitched छत is प्रायः ज्ञात as a झिल्ली और the प्राथमिक purpose of ये झिल्लियों is to waterproof the छत क्षेत्रफल .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run off from a slight inclination or  camber  into a gutter system .
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely off the edge of a roof , though  gutter प्रणालियों हैं  of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto the ground , or better , into a  विशेषकर बना soakaway  .
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area   .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool , usually for aesthetic purposes ,  or लिये rainwater  buffering .
Flat roofs exist all over the world and each area has its own tradition or  वरीयता  for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur   , many flat roofs are simply built of masonry or concrete and this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak , or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and  यूँ सीसे  to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally most flat roofs in the western world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied  over छत अलंकार  to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat , UV rays and weather off it and helps protect it  इससे cracking or blistering  and degradation .
Roof decking is usually of plywood , chipboard or OSB  फलक  ( OSB = Oriented Strand Board , also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is  applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid ,  heated in a tar kettle , or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down and sealed together at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from  the तारकोल  or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or  fibre  material soaked or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such  as on मुंडेर दीवारें or  upstands , tarpaper variants are produced with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship  and  training of those applying it to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas  ये बल्कि 'basic  ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and cost of laying them , however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable .
वहीँ हैं अभी अधिक firms  supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability .
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water  penetrates  and soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it .
इस can सीसे  to expensive damage from the rot which often develops and if left can weaken the roof structure .
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the severity of this  health risk remains a  debated point .
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible  क्षति or टपकती into  a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is   not easy to see where it is leaking in order to repair it .
Once underlying  roof  decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a  pre-pressed  compact disc which contains data .
The name is an acronym   which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can read CD-ROMs , but can not write on   them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software , including video games and multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to  the  capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced CDs , hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such  as आईएसओ 9660 स्वरूप  PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is  the तकनीकी  standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of  color-bound  books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold any   form of data .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen name J. K. Rowling , is a British novelist , best known as the author of the  हैरी कुम्हार काल्पनिक  series .
The Potter books have gained worldwide attention , won  अनेक  awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
They have become the best-selling book series in history , and been the basis  लिये a श्रेणी of films  which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as  well as  maintaining creative control by serving as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International when she  conceived  the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother , divorce from her first husband and poverty until Rowling   finished the first novel in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6  sequels—the पिछला ,  Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her agency  और resumed लिखने  in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is  फिलहाल working on दो books—one aimed लिये वयस्कों , the अन्य लिये children younger than the हैरी कुम्हार दर्शक , और वो expects the latter to be प्रकाशित पहला .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which  वो progressed  from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status within five years .
She is the United Kingdom 's  best-selling  author since records began , with sales in excess of £238m .
the  2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at £560 million ( $ 798 million ) , ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , and  समय पत्रिका नामित उसके as a runner-up  for its 2007 Person of the Year , noting the social , moral , and political inspiration she has given her fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling was named the `` Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by leading magazine  सम्पादक  .
She  has  become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic Relief , One Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ) .
auburndale  is a city in Polk County , Florida , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005 ,  the  city had a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland – Winter Haven Metropolitan Statistical  क्षेत्रफल  .
hurricane इसाबेल  ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during Expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , characteristics of tropical cyclones , are clearly visible  in  this view from space .
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a  low-pressure बीच  surrounded by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen  when water  evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises , resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air .
They are fueled by a different  heat  mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters , European windstorms , and polar lows .
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other  cyclonic प्रणालियों is कि  at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems , which usually   form in tropical regions of the globe , and to their formation in maritime tropical air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature , with counterclockwise  wind  flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere .
The opposite direction of the  हवा प्रवाह  is a result of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its location and strength , a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic storm , tropical depression , and simply  चक्रवात  .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful winds and torrential rain , they are also   able to produce high waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
वे develop over विशाल लाशें of गरम जल , और खोना उनके शक्ति if वे मूव over जमीन due to increased सतह घर्षण और घाटा of the गरम समंदर as an उर्जा  source .
This is why coastal regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone , while inland regions are relatively  safe from  receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding inland , and storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding  up to इससे the तटरेखा  .
हालांकि उनके प्रभाव on इंसान populations can be विनाशकारी , तीव्र cyclones can relieve सूखा शर्तें  .
वे भी carry ऊष्मा उर्जा दूर इससे the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध और हस्तांतरण it toward शीतोष्ण latitudes , जिससे makes उन्हें an महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the वैश्विक वायुमंडलीय परिसंचरण यांत्रिकी  .
As a result  , तीव्र cyclones सहायता  to maintain equilibrium in the Earth 's troposphere , and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many   tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns such as the Madden-Julian oscillation , El Niño-Southern Oscillation , and the Atlantic  multidecadal  oscillation .
Others  रूप जब  other types of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics .
Tropical systems are then  स्थानांतरित  by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the  वर्णक्रम , if  the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall , the system weakens and eventually dissipates .
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of  ये प्रणालियों  with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is an  अमरीकी स्टेज और फिल्मी  actor , film producer and author .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . Corral ( 1957 ) , The Vikings ( 1958 ) ,  स्पार्टाकस ( 1960 ) , निर्जन हैं the  Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male American  screen legends  of all time , making him the highest-ranked living person on the list .
In  1996 , he प्राप्त the अकादमी मानद पुरस्कार `` लिये 50 सालो as a रचनात्मक और moral फ़ोर्स in the गति चित्र जातियाँ . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from  हॉलीवुड 's ``  golden age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an American rock and roll singer-songwriter ,  guitarist और  pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist , he performed and recorded as Bob Seger  और the पिछला  Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the  early 1970s ,  he had dropped the `` System '' from his recordings and continued to strive for broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , with whom he became most successful on the national level  with the album  Live Bullet , recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he achieved a  नेशनल  breakout with the studio album Night Moves .
On his studio albums  ,  he also worked extensively with the Alabama-based Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , shouting voice , Seger wrote and  recorded songs that dealt  with love , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger has recorded many hits , including `` Night Moves , '' `` Turn the Page , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` Against the Wind , '' and Shakedown that was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock , ''  और भी co-wrote the ईगल्स  ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of  `` बूढ़ा समय चट्टान  and Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , Seger continues to perform and  रिकार्ड आज  .
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall  of  Fame in 2012 .
रिचर्ड milhous निक्सन ( जनवरी 9 , 1913 – अप्रैल 22 , 1994 ) थी the 37th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य , सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974 , जब he became the तभी अध्यक्ष to इस्तीफा the दफ्तर  .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican  u.S. प्रतिनिधि  and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in Yorba  लिंडा , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937 ,  returning  to California to practice law .
He and his  बीवी  , Pat Nixon , moved to Washington to work for the federal government in 1942 .
He  subsequently  served in the United States Navy during World War II .
निक्सन थी निर्वाचित in कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि in 1946 और to the सीनेट in 1950  .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case  स्थापित  his reputation as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Republican Party presidential nominee  in the 1952  election .
Nixon served for eight years as  वाइस अध्यक्ष  .
He  waged an  unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968   , he ran again for the presidency and was elected .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S.   involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China   in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations , and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically ,  उसके  administration generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed wage and price  नियंत्रण , enforced desegregation  of some Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning   with Apollo 11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He  थी  re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second   term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of  उसके राजनैतिक support , और  on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
बाद उसके इस्तीफा , he controversially प्राप्त a pardon जारी by उसके successor , जेराल्ड घाट  .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder  statesman  , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at   the age of 81 .
{  { Infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic  annexation  treaty caused bitter contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
ब्रैडी  1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation  होता सीसे to the conquest of the neighboring  black republic of Haiti , became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman   of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Sen. Sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of State , Bancroft Davis , that U.S . Naval ships were being used to protect President Báez  .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. Sumner’s suggestion and quite possibly to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in  कार्यपालिका सत्र  .
President Grant persisted and sent  संदेश  to Congress in favor of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that  there would be  difficulty with the foreign nationals , noting the chronic rebellion that took place on the island , and the risk that the independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a protectorate was a   violation of International law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate and failed to gain the required 2/3 majority  for treaty  passage .
The following day , President Grant , feeling betrayed by  sen. sumner  , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge , and  he blamed  the Secretary of State for failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men , friends until then , cooled  into  bitter enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that   Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow , Sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , had  initiated a अभियान  to depose Sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt , Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act , blocked Grant 's nomination  of Alexander  Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
ग्रान्ट  resented Sumner 's superiority of manner , as well .
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible , the president is supposed to have said that he was not  चकित : `` he किया n't लिखें  it . ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased , Sumner’s health   began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators affiliated with President Grant , known as ‘’New  Radicals’’ voted  to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical  सिद्धान्त  and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to all aspects  of  business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
Business  आचार  has both normative and descriptive dimensions .
As a corporate practice and a career specialization , the field is  primarily  normative .
Academics  attempting  to understand business behavior employ descriptive methods .
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with  non-economic चिंताएं .
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically  during the  1980s and 1990s , both within major corporations and within academia .
For example , today most  प्रमुख corporations प्रचार  their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters .
Adam Smith said , `` People of the same trade seldom meet together , even for merriment  and  diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior  in कया वे  perceive to be beneficial directions .
Ethics implicitly regulates  क्षेत्रों  and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control .
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and   sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat , electricity , chemicals , friction , or   radiation .
Most burns  affect  only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues , such as muscle  or अस्थि can  be injured in which case the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The treatment required depends   on the severity of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than simple pain killers while  प्रमुख burns  may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers .
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage  however if एक्सपोज़र  is prolonged it may result in low body temperature .
Partial thickness burns may require cleaning with   soap and water followed by dressings .
फफोले चाहिए typically be बाएँ अखंड .
Full thickness  burns प्रायः आवश्यकता सर्जिकल  treatments such as skin grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common complications of burns are  सम्बन्धित to संक्रमण  .
While large burns can be fatal , modern treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved  the  outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people seek medical  उपचार  and 300,000 people die from burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a burn center , approximately  4 % die इससे उनके  injuries .
The  long पद निष्कर्ष is primarily सम्बन्धित to the आकार of बर्न और the आयु of the व्यक्ति effected .
The Atlantic  Ocean  , not including Arctic and Antarctic regions
This video was  लिया  by the crew of Expedition 29 on board the ISS .
The pass starts from just north-east of the Island  of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  over the North Atlantic Ocean to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the  second-largest  of the world 's oceanic divisions .
With a total area of about , it covers approximately 20 percent of the Earth 's surface and about 29  प्रतिशत  of its water surface area .
The first part of its name refers to Atlas  of  Greek mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The  oldest ज्ञात जिक्र  of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; English : Sea of Atlas ) .
the पद ethiopic समंदर , निकला इससे इथियोपिया , थी लागू to the दक्षिणी अटलांटिक as लेट as the mid-19th  century .
Before Europeans discovered other oceans , the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that  we अभी जान as  the Atlantic .
The  जल्दी यूनानियों  believed this ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world .
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an  elongated  , S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected   global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic  as  extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic   Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need for a unique identifier in issuing  forecasts and warnings , tropical  cyclones and subtropical cyclones are given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these tropical and subtropical cyclone names are  निकला  .
White light is dispersed by a prism into the colors  of  the optical spectrum .
The visible  वर्णक्रम  is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths  is  called visible light or simply light .
A  ठेठ इंसान  eye will respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm .
in शर्तें of आवृत्ति , इस corresponds to a बैंड in the vicinity of 430–790 thz  .
A  light-adapted  eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the green region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ) .
The spectrum does not , however , contain all  the रंगों कि  the human eyes and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as pink , or purple variations such as magenta , are absent , for example , because they can be made  only by a  mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing only one wavelength are  भी  called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the  प्रदेश of the  electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An example of this phenomenon is that clean air scatters blue light more than red wavelengths , and so  the midday आसमान appears ब्लू  .
The optical window is also called the  दृश्य  window because it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out  of the  human vision , as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many species can see light with frequencies outside the `` visible spectrum , '' which is  पारिभाषित  in terms of human vision .
Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet   light , which helps them find nectar in flowers .
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than  कैसा रंगीन वे appear to इंसानो .
Birds , too , can see into the  पराबैंगनी ( 300–400  nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into  the पराबैंगनी दायरा  , however , can not see red light or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at   about 590nm , just before the orange wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can see some red  wavelengths  , but not as many as humans .
Zebras ( or ) are several species of  अफ़्रीकी equids ( घोड़ा  family ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their stripes come in different patterns , unique  to प्रत्येक  individual .
They are generally social animals   that live in small harems to large herds .
Unlike   their closest relatives , horses and asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There are three species of zebras : the plains zebra ,  the grévy 's जेब्रा  and the mountain zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but Grévy 's zebra  is the एकमात्र  species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter  resembles an  ass , to which it is closely related , while the former two are more horse-like .
All three belong to the genus Equus , along with other  जीना  equids .
The unique stripes of  zebras  make them one of the animals most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such as grasslands ,   savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
However , various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations , in  particular शिकार लिये खालें  and habitat destruction .
Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra are  endangered  .
While plains  zebras are much more plentiful , one  subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century – though there is currently a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back .
Barry  श्वेत , born बैरी यूजीन कार्टर ( – ) , थी an अमरीकी composer और singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting many enduring soul , funk , and disco songs  ऐसे as उसके दो biggest हिट्स  , `` You 're the First , the Last , My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love , Babe . ''
साथ साथ इसहाक़ हेज़ , श्वेत is माना by allmusic.com as a पायोनियर of डिस्को म्यूज़िक in the जल्दी 1970s  .
During the course of his career in the music business , White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of which  भी  attained platinum status .
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100  लाख  , according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan .
उसके प्रभाव शामिल  Rev . James Cleveland , Ray Charles , Aretha Franklin plus Motown artists The Supremes , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975  ) is an American  actress , film director , and screenwriter .
She has  प्राप्त an अकादमी  Award , two Screen Actors Guild Awards , and three Golden Globe Awards , and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes , and is noted for her work with refugees as a  खास envoy और पूर्व साख दूत  for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman , a title for which she has received   substantial media attention .
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ) , but her film  करियर began in सच्चाई  a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first leading role in  a major  film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed  biographical टेलीविज़न films जार्ज  Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in  लारा  Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) , and established herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated commercial successes to date—and received further critical  acclaim  for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie  बना उसके  directorial debut with the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced  इससे अभिनेताओं जॉनी ली मिलर  and Billy Bob Thornton , Jolie now lives with actor Brad Pitt , in a relationship notable for fervent media attention .
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children  और तीन  adopted children .
A natural arch produced by  the अपरदन of differentially  weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the Earth 's  सतह  by exogenetic processes such as wind or water flow , and then transported and deposited in other locations .
While erosion is a natural process , human activities have  increased  by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally .
excessive  erosion causes problems such as desertification , decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined , they are responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage , making  excessive अपरदन एक of the सबसे  significant global environmental problems .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads ,  anthropogenic जलवायु बदलें  and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in regard to their effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace  -building  , no-till agriculture , and revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an  अमरीकी  reality television series which ran on MTV from December 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The series follows the lives of eight housemates   spending their summer at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami  बीच  , with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
The  चौथी ऋतु , फिल्माया in इटली , premiered on अगस्त 4 , 2011 .
The  दिखाएँ लौटे  for a fifth season , at Seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
The  पांचवां  season finale aired on March 15 , 2012 .
On  कूच 19 , 2012 , एमटीवी पुष्टि कि the श्रेणी होता वापसी लिये उनके छठे ऋतु .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV announced that the series will end after the  sixth  season , which premiered on October 4 .
The series finale aired on December  20 , 2012  .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and scrutiny from locals because the cast members were not  निवासियों of the  area .
The series garnered record ratings for MTV , making it the network 's most viewed series telecast   ever .
The series '  डाल have  also been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into American popular culture .
The University of Chicago and the University  of  Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that have had classes or conferences about the show .
In 2010 , the cast of  जर्सी shore थी  named on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People list , and the series has since been exported to dozens of countries worldwide .
There are several remakes of the show in other countries , with two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore , set in Newcastle  upon Tyne ,  England .
The other is The Valleys , the Welsh equivalent , which is filmed  and set  in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of the show is  gandía shore  , set in Gandía , Spain .
सही
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States , including all waters ( around islands or  महाद्वीपीय tracts ) और सब u.s .  Naval vessels .
The United  राज्य  has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing its territory .
This  extent  of territory is all the area belonging to , and under the dominion of , the United States federal government ( which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes .
The United States total territory includes a subset of political  विभाजन  .
The U.S. government is a  सरकारी  with delegated powers under the United States Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the  संयुक्त  States by the Constitution , nor prohibited by it to the States , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film directed by Jonathan Mostow and starring  अर्नाल्ड श्वार्ज़नेगर , उपनाम stahl  , Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to The Terminator (  1984  ) .
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor before her son is born and to kill John himself as a child , it sends back another Terminator , the T-X , in an  attempt  to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This  शामिल  John 's future wife , but not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in danger   when the T-X accidentally finds him .
A  cord  of wood
The cord is a unit of measure of dry volume used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and  pulpwood  .
A cord is the amount of wood that , when `` ranked and well   stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned , parallel , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high , long , and deep ; or any other arrangement of   linear measurements that yields the same volume .
the नाम cord संभवतः आता इससे the उपयोग of a cord or स्ट्रिंग to माप it .
The , is an 8-bit handheld video game device developed and  manufactured  by Nintendo .
It was released in Japan on , in  उत्तर अमेरिका  in , and in Europe on .
It is the first  handheld  console in the Game Boy line , and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the same staff who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998 , in  the रूप of खेल लड़के जेब ,  and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is  निन्टेंडो 's दूसरी हैंडहेल्ड प्रणाली  following the Game & Watch series introduced in , and it combined features from both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch .
It was originally  bundled  with the puzzle game Tetris .
As part of the   fourth generation of gaming , the Game Boy competed with the Sega Game Gear , Atari Lynx , and the TurboExpress .
Despite these other technologically superior handheld consoles , the Game Boy was a tremendous  कामयाबी  .
The Game Boy and its successor , the Game Boy Color , have both combined  बेची  118.69 million units worldwide .
upon इसके रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य , it बेची इसके संपूर्ण शिपमेंट of एक लाख इकाई भीतर सप्ताह .
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings under construction in Lower Manhattan  , नई यॉर्क नगर , संयुक्त राज्य  , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers , which opened on April 4 , 1973 and were destroyed in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along with 7 World  Trade Center  .
The other buildings in the complex were damaged in the attacks , and their ruins were   eventually demolished .
The site is   being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed in the attacks .
, only one skyscraper has been  समाप्त ; the  other four are expected to be completed before 2020 .
One World Trade Center will be the lead building for the new complex , reaching more than 100 stories  at इसके पूर्णता  .
It became  the  tallest building in New York City on April 30 , 2012 , and is expected to be finished by 2013 .
A sixth tower is  प्रतीक्षारत  confirmation .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North  Tower  ) and 2 World Trade Center ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '' , were the tallest buildings in the world .
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott World Trade Center ) , 4 WTC  , 5  WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
All of these  इमारतें  were built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the construction was $ 400  लाख ( $  in dollars ) .
The  जटिल थी स्तिथ in the दिल of नई यॉर्क नगर 's शहर वित्तीय ज़िला और contained 13.4 लाख वर्गाकार फीट ( 1.24 लाख m2 ) of दफ्तर स्पेस .
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery  on , 1998 .
In  1998  , the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade Center , leasing the buildings to a private company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of September 11 , 2001 , Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex ,  एक into प्रत्येक मीनार  , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed ,  followed  a half-hour later by the North Tower ( 1 ) , with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined with fires that the debris initiated   in several surrounding buildings , led to the partial or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The process of cleanup and recovery   at the World Trade Center site took eight months .
Over the following  सालो , योजनाएँ  for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The first new building at the site was 7  World  Trade Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ) , established in to oversee the rebuilding process , organized competitions  to चुनें a साईट योजना और  memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by Daniel Libeskind , was  चयनित as the निपुण  plan , but this went through substantial changes in design .
The  नई संसार  Trade Center complex will include One World Trade Center , three other high-rise office towers , and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San  जिबरील kyu
San   Bernardino Mountains , with Mt . San Gorgonio in the foreground and Big Bear Lake in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain ranges of southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , in the Pacific Coast Ranges physiographic region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the  southern end  of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their  east-west अभिविन्यास  , making them transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains .
आवधिक तालिका  with electron shells
An electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed  by  electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L shell '' )  , then the `` 3 shell  '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , and so on farther and farther from the nucleus .
The shell  अक्षर k  , L , M , ... , used in the X-ray notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can hold up to two electrons , the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons , the 3rd shell can hold up to 18 , and 4th  शेल can थाम up to 32 और so on  .
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons  होगा generally  occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement : Atoms may have two or even three  incomplete outer  shells .
(   See Madelung rule for more details . )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these shells see  इलेक्ट्रॉन विन्यास  .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the  रासायनिक गुण  of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or  अधिक subshells  , and each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( née Hogan ; November 28 , 1967 – February 8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker  Anna  Nicole Smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy , becoming the 1993 Playmate of  the  Year .
She modeled for  कपडे  companies , including Guess jeans and Lane Bryant .
Smith dropped out of high school and was married in  1985  .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J. Howard Marshall , 62 years her senior , resulted in speculation   that she married the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
Following Marshall 's death , Smith began a lengthy legal battle  over  a share of his estate .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S.   Supreme Court on a question of federal jurisdiction , and again on a question of bankruptcy court authority ( now called Stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on  फ़रवरी 8 , 2007  in a Hollywood , Florida hotel room as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs .
Within the final six months of her life , Smith was the focus of a renewed press coverage surrounding the death of her son , Daniel , and the paternity and custody battle over her  newborn daughter ,  Dannielynn .
the  is one denomination of Japanese yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters  ज्ञात  as the `` new script `` , and were also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen  coins  date to 1870 ( when , due to the much higher value of the yen , they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water , with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan  '' और the साल  of issue , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries , the key elements of the  Japanese  first-sector economy .
around a छेद , वहीँ is a गियर कि represents उद्योग  .
It is the only  जापानी  coin in circulation to lack Arabic numerals on either face .
TLC is an American girl  समूह  whose repertoire spanned R & B , hip hop , soul , funk , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli ''  थामस  , the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law , each other , and the group 's record label .
Initially , TLC achieved commercial  कामयाबी  following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC Tip ,  जिससे  sold 6 million copies worldwide .
However , it was their second   album , CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
crazysexycool  went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA — a first for a female group , and eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five years later , the group released their third album FanMail , which became the group 's first album to debut at number  एक और बेची  more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the  उच्चतम grossing दौरे of सब  time by a female band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car  दुर्घटना  in Honduras .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli  released  the group 's fourth album 3D , which sold 2 million copies worldwide , it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine  क्रमित  TLC as one of the greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 ,  the बैंड  accumulated ten top ten singles , four number one singles , four multi-platinum albums , and four Grammy Awards .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked  as the  seventh most successful act of the 1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 , the group was  inducted into  the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
That year it was also listed as the # 25 R &  b/hip-hop  artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65  लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी  and they are ranked as the second best selling female group of all time , and the best selling female R & B group of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in Music , being  क्रमित the क्रमांक  one all girl group on that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed  by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी तस्वीरें .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is based on the  story  Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs , and is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy , Bob Tzudiker , and Noni White , Tarzan features  the voices of Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver ,  Glenn Close , and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its predecessors Hercules  ( 1997 ) and Mulan (  1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most   expensive animated film ever made , until topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It was also the  first Disney animated  feature to open at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This  थी the पिछला प्रमुख बक्सा दफ्तर कामयाबी of the डिज़्नी पुनर्जागरण .
Oil Platform P-51 off the  ब्राज़ीलियाई coast is  a semi-submersible platform .
Oil platform  mittelplate  in the North sea
An oil platform , ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to drill wells , to extract and process oil and natural gas , and to  temporarily स्टोर  product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the platform contains facilities to house the  workforce  as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the platform may be fixed to the ocean floor , may consist of an artificial  island , or may  float .
Remote subsea  कुएं may भी  be connected to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea   solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells , or of one or more manifold centres for multiple wells .
Slaughter is  the  killing of animals , usually that of domestic livestock for food .
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water buffalo ( for beef and veal  ) ,  sheep , goats ( for lamb and mutton ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House , the  अध्यक्ष 's आधिकारिक  residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution , the President of the United States is the head of state and head   of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and  head of the  federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The  अध्यक्ष  is also the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by  the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि चाहिए the  Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution  in 1951  , no person may be elected President more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation ,  or हटाना इससे  office of an incumbent President , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35 years of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the  United  States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as  अध्यक्ष following the अनुसमर्थन  of the United States Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For  अमरीकी नेताओ पहले इस अनुसमर्थन , देखिए अध्यक्ष of the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस .
The list does not  शामिल कोई एक्टिंग  Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover  क्लीवलैंड परोसा दो  non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and  एक resigned ( रिचर्ड निक्सन  ) .
George Washington , the first president , was inaugurated in 1789 after a  सर्वसम्मत vote  of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into  his fourth  term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms   , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman , was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring  non-land-owners  from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding  was the  first elected after women gained voting rights in 1920 .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes ,  बेंजामिन हैरिसन और  George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only  अध्यक्ष  of Roman Catholic faith , and the current president , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
अनेक firearms साथ detachable suppressors , इससे शीर्ष to नीचे : an uzi , an ar-15 , a heckler & koch खासियत रणनीतिक , a beretta 92fs , और a sig मच्छर .
Bolt action rimfire rifle with  suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle with attached  suppressor  .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator , is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and  प्रायः the राशि of muzzle फ्लैश , उत्पन्न by फायरिंग  the weapon .
A suppressor can be used both  साथ  a firearm and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction  : the ध्वनि of a प्रक्षेप्य  , especially one moving faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long  अलहदा शूटिंग ( i.e  . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the moment of impact , and create the impression of silence near the target .
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel  ,  though subdued , is not silent at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of   firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around the beginning of the 20th century by several  आविष्कारक  .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim , Hiram Percy 's father , and the inventor of the Maxim Machine  Gun ) , is  credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave his device the  trademarked  name Maxim Silencer .
The muffler for  आतंरिक दहन इंजन थी विकसित in समानांतर साथ the firearm suppressor by कहावत in the जल्दी 20th सदी , using अनेक of the वही तकनीकों to provide quieter-running इंजन ( in अनेक यूरोपीय देशों ऑटोमोबाइल mufflers हैं स्टिल पुकारा silencers ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use  , although it has since fallen out of favor with some , especially among the firearms industry , being replaced  with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon , rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage  और u.S. विधान  language favor the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm muffler ''  और `` firearm  silencer '' are synonymous .
suppressors यहूद regularly प्रयुक्त by एजेंटों of the संयुक्त राज्य दफ्तर of रणनीतिक सेवाएं , जो favored the newly designed ऊँची मानक hdm .22 long राइफल पिस्टल दौरान संसार युद्ध ii .
OSS Director  विलियम  Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS  शोध  chief Stanley Lovell , Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his message , Donovan turned his back and fired  टेन गोलियाँ into a sandbag  he had brought with him , announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with  an अभिन्न  suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
Beatrice `` Bea ''  आर्थर ( may  13 , 1922 – April 25 , 2009 ) was an American actress , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
Arthur  achieved fame as the  character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family and Maude , and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
a स्टेज अभिनेत्री दोनो पहले और बाद उसके टेलीविज़न कामयाबी , वो जीती the टोनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन प्रदर्शित अभिनेत्री in a musical लिये उसके प्रदर्शन as वीरा चार्ल्स in the असली डाल  of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series , produced  by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik  Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment .
the फिल्मी premiered in उत्तर अमेरिका by बंदाई entertainment on जुलाई 26 , 2011 , और in ऑस्ट्रेलिया on जुलाई 27 , 2011 in a खास विशेष one-off स्क्रीनिंग .
It  थी released  on September 3 , 2011 in Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on November 22 , 2011 for USA , and  दिसम्बर  1 , 2011 for Japan .
This film was also released on DVD  on  November 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version only ) .
The film was additionally included with the PlayStation 3 game , Tekken Hybrid , and the Nintendo 3DS title ,  tekken  3D : Prime Edition .
For a discussion of nonprofit ,  voluntary पड़ोस  advocacy groups , see neighborhood association .
In the United  States , a  homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of marketing , managing , and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal responsibility of the organization , typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners after  selling बंद a predetermined  number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners association  by a  residential buyer is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it .
Most homeowner associations are incorporated , and are subject to state statutes that  govern  non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal ,  और मुख्यतः  takes the form of laws which are inconsistent from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association law , and some states , such as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner association law   .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a category that includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes , condominiums  , और सहकारी  apartments .
Since 1964 ,  homeowner  associations have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community Associations Institute trade  संघ अनुमानित  that HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes and 62 million residents in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white  silkie
There are many breeds of  Guinea  pig which have been developed since its domestication ca . 5000 BC .
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose , ranging from show breeds with long , flowing hair to those in use as model   organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs , which  रूप  the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for food , and efforts at improving   the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe  in the 15th  century , the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets .
To this end ,  विभिन्न प्रतिस्पर्धी  breeding organizations were founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders Association ,  is the शासी देह in the  United States and Canada .
The British Cavy  परिषद  governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom .
Similar organizations  मौजूद in ऑस्ट्रेलिया (  Australian National Cavy Council ) and New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its own Standard of Perfection and determines which  breeds are  eligible for showing .
New breeds continue to emerge in  the 21st  century .
Though there are many  breeds of गिनी  pig , only a few breeds are commonly found on the show table as pets .
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or were bred to be pleasant  पालतु regardless of कैसा खूब वे  meet the breed standard of perfection .
The short hair , Abyssinian , Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of  गिनी  pigs .
in जोड to उनके मानक रूप , nearly सब breeds आइये in a साटन रूपांतर .
Satins , due to their hollow   hair shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and shine .
However  , वहीँ is growing प्रमाण कि the जीनों जिम्मेदार लिये the साटन कोट भी can कारण कठोर अस्थि समस्याएं , सहित osteodystrophy और पेजेट 's बीमारी .
प्रर्दशित साटन विसंगतियाँ is निषिद्ध by कुछ cavy प्रजनक ' एसोसिएशन क्युकी of एनिमल welfare कारण  .
सब cavy breeds have कुछ साझा सामान्य मानकों : the सिर प्रोफ़ाइल चाहिए be rounded , साथ विशाल आँखें और विशाल , चिकना कानों  .
The  देह  should be strong and of compact build .
Coat colour  should in  all variations be clearly defined and thorough from root to tip .
These standards are best met by long  स्थापित , commonly करवाया  breeds , as their breeders have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat  colour ideal of good  definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds , which have had well established , separate breeding lines for different colours .
State schools ( also known as public schools or government  schools )  generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The term  may भी refer to संस्थानों of post-secondary शिक्षा वित्तपोषित , in पूरे or in भाग , और overseen by सरकारी .
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules whose sequence is  नियंत्रित by the अनुक्रम of  messenger RNA molecules .
इस is जरूरी by सब जीना कोशिकाएं और संबद्ध वाइरस  .
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the Greek soma , meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular  यंत्र , मिला भीतर सब जीना कोशिकाएं  , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules   .
ribosomes consist  of two major subunits—the small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA , while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is  रचित of  one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules and a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many times into messenger  rna ( mrna  ) chains of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain  and use it as a  template for determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected  , एकत्रित  and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ) , which enter one part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The  संलग्न  amino acids are then linked together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is produced , it can then 'fold ' to produce a  विशिष्ट  functional three-dimensional structure .
A ribosome is made from complexes of  rnas और प्रोटीन  and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA pattern , while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the  अमीनो acids  .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule ,  ये दो  subunits split apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the   catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that links amino acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth  )  differ in their size , sequence , structure , and the ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting their   ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a  सिंगल mrna कड़ी at एक  time , each `` reading '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the  mitochondria of eukaryotic कोशिकाएं  functionally resemble many features of those in bacteria , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
अल्बर्ट क्लॉड , ईसाई de duve ,  and George Emil Palade were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to Venkatraman Ramakrishnan , Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for  determining  the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The simplified internal  ढांचा  of a chloroplast
अवलोकन of the calvin साईकिल और कार्बन fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions  that  convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the  stroma , the fluid-filled  area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the  light-dependent  reactions and perform further chemical processes on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively called  the  Calvin cycle : carbon fixation , reduction reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
despite  its name , this process occurs only when light is available .
Plants do not carry   out the Calvin cycle by night .
They ,  बजाय , रिलीज  sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of  photosynthesis ( c3 कार्बन  fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a  square number or  perfect square is an integer that is the square of an integer ; in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For  उदाहरण  , 9 is a square number , since it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a number is not  the  product , but the equivalent exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name square number comes from the name of the  shape  ; see below .
Square numbers are  non-negative  .
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) number is a square number , is that  इसके वर्गाकार जड़ें हैं again  integers .
For example , = ±3 , so 9 is a square  क्रमांक  .
A positive integer that has no perfect square divisors except  1 is पुकारा  square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th square number   is , with being the zeroth square .
The concept of  वर्गाकार can be  extended to some other number systems .
if तर्कसंगत संख्याएँ हैं शामिल , तब a वर्गाकार is the अनुपात of दो वर्गाकार integers , और , conversely , the अनुपात of दो वर्गाकार integers is a वर्गाकार ( e.g. , 4/9  = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers up to and including , where the expression represents the  floor of the  number .
the era of शुभ जज्बात चिह्नित a काल in the राजनैतिक इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य कि reflected a भाव of नेशनल purpose और a ख्वाहिश लिये एकता among अमेरिकी in the aftermath of the napoleonic युद्धों .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes between  it  and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System .
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations , with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating  पार्टियों altogether इससे नेशनल  politics .
The period is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( 1817–1825  ) and  his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the end of the Federalist Party as America began  to  develop after the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing growth   and prosperity after the war with Britain , this era also marks the first instance of economic troubles in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South with  the coming of  the first financial crisis .
While the term “Era of Good Feelings” is usually viewed with irony because of  the राजनैतिक  turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere   was strained and divisive , especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party .
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell , in the Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his  शुभ होगा दौरे  of America .
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is  a रिटायर्ड  American professional soccer player .
Hamm played many years as a forward for the United States women 's national soccer  टोली  and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , more than any other player , male or female , in the history of  soccer and is the  third most capped female player in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that award was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ) , and is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players (  as चुनी  by Pelé ) .
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame   .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and Life and  appeared in the एचबीओ वृत्तचित्र  Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15  सालो  . ''
Hamm takes a   corner kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an  अमरीकी पेशेवर  soccer team based in Harrison , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The team competes in the Eastern Conference  of प्रमुख  League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS , having competed  in the  league since its inception .
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ) , but has gone through several name changes   .
The team was originally known as the New  york/new  Jersey MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through   the 2005 season , the team was known as the MetroStars .
On March 9 ,  2006  , the team was sold to Red Bull GmbH , leading to the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( including regular season , playoffs , and knockout competition )  चूंकि inception  .
The team 's best result in the MLS was the MLS  Cup  final in 2008 .
In the US Open Cup , the MetroStars reached three  semifinals ( 1997 , 1998  , 2000 ) , before reaching their first final in 2003 , losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' Clint  Mathis set an  MLS record by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
कुछ well-known खिलाड़ी कि have निभाई लिये the टोली शामिल giovanni savarese , टिम हावर्ड , टोनी meola , tab ramos , alexi lalas , क्लिंट mathis , jozy altidore , माइकल ब्राडली , क्लाउडियो reyna , एडी पोप , रॉबर्टो donadoni , lothar matthäus , एडोल्फो वालेंसिया , youri djorkaeff , amado ग्वेरा , जुआन पाब्लो ángel , thierry हेनरी , juninho pernambucano , जन गुन्नार solli , राफेल मार्ख़ेस , और  Tim Cahill .
The team  रै भी था well-known  coaches , including Carlos Queiroz , Carlos Alberto Parreira , Bora Milutinović , Bob Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans Backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in the litang style portraying three men laughing by a river stream , 12th century ,  सोंग  Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world , or in many  देशों ,  is difficult due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration .
to शुरू साथ , the धार्मिक मान्यताओं , practices , और पहचान of ईस्ट एशियाइ ( जो comprise the बहुमत of the संसार 's बौद्धों by कोई माप ) प्रायः मिश्रण buddhism साथ अन्य परंपराओं सहित confucianism , the चाइनीज लोक धर्म , daoism , shinto , और  Korean shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making it difficult to accurately   estimate the number of practitioners .
An additional challenge is the hostility  of अनेक नेशनल  governments ( often Communist ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting in  आधिकारिक योग कि may drastically underestimate  the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide Buddhist population range from 350 million to over  एक अरब  , but cluster nearer to the first figure .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a  फिगर  of 397 million .
By major branches , the numbers are  as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including East Asian Buddhism , with  no fewer than 185 million  adherents , and possibly several times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the  predominant रूप  of Buddhism practiced in China , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism , with no fewer  than  125 million adherents .
इस is the predominant रूप of buddhism practiced in कंबोडिया , थाईलैंड , लाओस , श्री लंका , और बर्मा .
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism , with approximately 20  लाख  adherents .
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions  , as well  as in the Himalayas .
Besides  the independent  countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various territories within what is now western China , Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism , but this is imprecise , as Shingon and other forms of East   Asian Buddhism also practice tantra .
At least 7 countries (   Sri Lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos , Burma , Bhutan , and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents , this  फिगर might  expand to include several more countries .
In addition , Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia and Bhutan , and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand  and Sri  Lanka .
In northern India and Nepal , the land where Buddhism was born ,  the धर्म severely  declined during the first millennium .
Whether this   decline was due to the Islamic conquest of northern India , or to other factors , remains controversial .
See the article Decline of Buddhism in  India  .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 – August 2 , 1876 ) , better known as Wild Bill Hickok , was a folk hero of the  अमरीकी  Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his reputation as a lawman , provided the basis for his  कीर्ति , हालांकि कुछ  of his reported exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice , first  working as a stagecoach ड्राइवर , पहले he became a lawman  in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He fought for the Union Army during the American Civil War , and gained publicity after the war as a scout  , marksman  , actor , and professional gambler .
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling , which easily overlapped , Hickok was involved in   several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing poker  in the nuttal &  Mann 's Saloon in Deadwood , Dakota Territory ( now South Dakota ) .
Artist 's conception of the Curiosity rover  vaporizing  rock on Mars .
The rover landed on Mars in  अगस्त  2012 .
A Mars  रोवर is an स्वचालित मोटर  vehicle which propels itself across the surface of the planet Mars after landing .
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory , they can be directed to interesting features , they can place themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge  of कैसा to perform बहुत रिमोट रोबोटिक  vehicle control .
There  have  been four successful robotically operated Mars rovers .
The Jet  नोदन  Laboratory managed the Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the Mars  खोजी रोवर मिशन 's क्रियाशील  Opportunity rover and inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit ,  or अधिक accurately , an  audit of financial statements , is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute   assurance , that the financial statements are presented fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements , which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management , thus increase user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of  पूंजी of the preparer of the  financial statements .
Financial audits are  typically  performed by firms of practicing accountants who are experts in financial reporting .
The financial  ऑडिट is  one of many assurance functions provided by accounting firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors , who do not attest to financial reports but focus  मुख्यतः on the आतंरिक  controls of the organization .
External auditors  may  choose to place limited reliance on the work of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization  ,  therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the International Auditing and Assurance  मानकों फलक ( iaasb ) is माना  as the benchmark for audit process .
Almost  सब jurisdictions  require auditors to follow the ISA or a local variation of the ISA .
Dollar coins have been minted in the  संयुक्त राज्य  in gold , silver , and base metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar , although purists insist that a dollar is not silver unless it contains  कुछ of कि  metal .
Silver dollars , the first dollar coin issue , were  minted  beginning in 1794 .
सुनहरा  dollars and gold-colored dollars have also been produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars are often referred to as  `` सुनहरी  dollars '' .
In modern times , dollar coins have not been very popular in  the  United States .
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use , most Americans currently use the one dollar bill  rather  than dollar coins .
In straight and level flight lift ( L ) equals weight ( W  ) .
In a banked turn of 60° , lift equals double  the वज़न  ( L=2W ) .
The  पायलट  experiences 2g and a doubled weight .
The steeper the bank , the greater the  g-forces  .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate  इससे  zero to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined  साथ the लंबवत  g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations felt  as  weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not  a फ़ोर्स ,  per se , but a force per unit mass .
चूंकि ऐसे a फ़ोर्स is आभास as a वज़न , कोई g-force can be वर्णित as a `` वज़न प्रति ईकाई द्रव्यमान '' ( देखिए the पर्याय विशिष्ट वज़न )  .
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass , and ( save for  certain  electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This  त्वरण  experienced by an object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed proper accelerations , and it is only these that are measured in  g-force इकाई  .
They cause stresses and strains on  वस्तुएँ  .
Because of these strains , large g-forces may be  destructive  .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force , even though g-forces are   expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
Thus , the standard gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of   resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting  on the धरती  's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , which is the path that the object would follow  जब गिरना freely toward the धरती  's center .
Objects  अनुमत to  free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling elevator falling toward the  Earth 's  center ( in vacuum ) , or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are examples of coordinate  त्वरण  ( a change in velocity ) without a sensation of weight .
The  अनुभव  of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
in the अनुपस्थिति of गुरुत्वाकर्षक फ़ील्ड , or in दिशानिर्देश at सही कोण to उन्हें , उचित और निर्देशांक accelerations हैं the वही , और कोई निर्देशांक त्वरण जरूर be उत्पादित by a सम्बन्धित g-force त्वरण  .
An example here is a rocket in free space  , in जिससे सरल  changes in velocity are produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An  augur पकड़कर  a lituus , the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a priest and  आधिकारिक  in the classical world , especially ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to interpret the will of the  देवताओं by अध्ययन  the flight of birds : whether they are flying in groups or alone , what noises they make as they fly , direction of flight and what kind of birds they are .
इस थी ज्ञात as `` लेने the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major undertaking in Roman society—public or private—including  matters  of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not  जान  that this city was founded only after taking the auspices , that everything in war and in peace , at home and abroad , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent community in   southeastern Michigan .
It is  the  second largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population was 79,740  at the  2010 census .
It  is भाग of the upscale northwestern उपनगरों of महानगर डेट्रॉयट और is भी पूर्वोत्तर of शहर ऐन arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities  in the संयुक्त  States , as well as in the state of Michigan .
in 2010 , the क्षेत्रफल क्रमित as the 30th safest नगर in अमेरिका .
Although the two  शहरों  have separate services and addresses , Farmington and Farmington Hills are often thought of as the same community .
सुविधाएँ  of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park .
There  हैं  several historical sites including the Longacre House and the Governor Warner Mansion .
Both cities are served by  farmington  Public Schools .
farmington  Hills serves as a major business center for the greater Detroit area .
present-day छाप of a लेट कांस्य आयु मुहर
कस्बा मुहर ( मेट्रिक्स ) of náchod इससे 1570
A seal is a device for making an impression in wax ,  मिट्टी , पेपर , or  some other medium , including an embossment on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The original purpose was to authenticate a document , a wrapper for one such as a modern envelope ,  or the कवर of a संग्राहक  or package holding valuables or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould , with the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken-   ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The  seal-making  device is also referred to as the seal matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where   the high parts of the matrix touch , the seal is known as a dry seal ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of a seal may be  विस्तारित to  include rubber stamps , or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United States , the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ) , which may be used  in a variety of contexts including  architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears on the  reverse of  the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may  खूब विशेषता  in such contexts as well as on seals , the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The   study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated  on फ़रवरी  2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early  ; if  it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow , and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog  उभरते इससे इसके burrow .
In southeastern  Pennsylvania ,  Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge , social events in which food is served , speeches are made , and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment .
The  पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी dialect is the तभी भाषा बोला at the इवेंट , और those जो बोलो अंग्रेज़ी अदा a दंड , प्रायः in the रूप of a निकल , dime , or क्वार्टर प्रति शब्द बोला , साथ the धन put into a कटोरी in the बीच of the तालिका .
The largest Groundhog Day celebration is held in Punxsutawney ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular tradition , received widespread attention  as a result of  the 1993 film Groundhog Day , which was set in Punxsutawney , PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High resolution   image of Tampa Bay region
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen Cfa ) , with warm and humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and  drier  winters with freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3 years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls  in the महीने  of June through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being  in hardiness zone 10 ,  which is about the northern limit of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range  between  65 and 95 °F ( 18 and 35 °C ) year round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's official high has never reached 100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the city  's all-time  record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ) .
St. Petersburg 's all-time  रिकार्ड  high is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ) .
Pinellas County lies on a  प्रायद्वीप between tampa खाड़ी और the गल्फ of मैक्सिको , और  much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to large bodies of water both moderates temperatures  and  introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges , both during a single day and throughout the seasons  of the साल  .
a आरेख of the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम , प्रर्दशित विभिन्न गुण आरपार the दायरा of बारंबारता और wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all   possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum  '' of an ऑब्जेक्ट रै a अलग  meaning , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from  हज़ारों of किलोमीटर bas to a भिन्न of the आकार of  an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , while it is  thought  that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for  spectroscopic और  other probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found  many  other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) ,  भी ज्ञात by उसके आद्याक्षर  , FDR , was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected  to  more than two terms , he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again  `` as उसके  campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over polio , FDR 's unfailing  आशावाद और सक्रियता  contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against   Germany and Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New   Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but then  relapsed  into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished  during  World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85 , except for the  विनियमन of वॉल  Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which  कॉंग्रेस passed  in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial  support to चीन और  Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy  `` जिससे  would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval ,  provided lend-lease  aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7 , 1941  ,  calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to  support the अलाइड  war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the  world 's  first atom bomb .
In 1942  रूज़वेल्ट  ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new  हाइट्स  as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American  राजनैतिक  scene not only during the twelve years of his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters  कि  created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united  मजदूर संघ , बिग नगर  machines , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also influenced the later creation of the United Nations and Bretton  वुड्स  .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along with  अब्राहम  Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a little left  of बीच  . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a committee made up of members of both chambers of a  bicameral  legislature .
In other contexts , it refers to a committee with members from  अधिक than  one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with  कानून जैसे the मन  Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public order  अपराधों , a अपराधों  that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one time   considered to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution , the  शर्तें  of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently contain  क्रियाशील brothels  .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ) ,  washoe काउंटी ( जिससे contains  Reno ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
the अन्य काउंटी theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति , लकिन कुछ of ये काउंटी फिलहाल have no क्रियाशील brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the  proceeds of a  prostitute remain illegal under Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution in the  संयुक्त राज्य can be विभाजित into तीन व्यापक श्रेणी  : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with  श्वेत , साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred  to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states  of the United States of  America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union .
nicknames लिये the ध्वज शामिल the `` सितारों और धारियाँ '' , `` बूढ़ा महिमा `` , और `` the star-spangled ध्वज . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising   twenty-eight states and seven union territories .
The states and territories are further subdivided into  जिले और so  on .
congressional  districts for the 113th United States Congress
2010  Census change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts  ,  starting in 2013 , as a result of the 2010 census .
2000  जनसांख्यिकी  change:
Change in  apportionment of congressional  districts , from 2003 to 2013 , as a result of the 2000 census .
This is a complete list of congressional districts for representation in the United States House of  प्रतिनिधि  .
The quantity  (  apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of districts are determined after each census , although in some cases states have changed the boundaries more than once per census .
This list  शामिल the  435 current and over 200 obsolete districts .
For example , since the 2000 census , Nebraska has had three districts , but it used to  have as  many as six .
In the first decade of the twenty-first century ,  टेक्सास  had 32 districts , but has since added four due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census .
Other states  have lost  districts since the number of congressional seats has been set at 435 by statute .
Also included here are non-voting delegations : six  वर्तमान  and four obsolete .
The  सीमाएँ  of districts often shift with each redistricting .
Over time , the region and demographics represented  in a  district can change substantially .
Furthermore , districts sometimes  retain the वही सीमाएँ  while changing their district numbers .
Mariah Carey ( born  March  27 , 1970 ) is an American singer , songwriter , record producer , actress , and philanthropist .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola , Carey released her self-titled debut  studio album  Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
following उसके विवाह to mottola in 1993 और कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव ( 1991 ) , म्यूज़िक बक्सा ( 1993 ) , और मैरी क्रिसमस ( 1994 ) , कैरी थी स्थापित as कोलंबिया 's highest-selling  act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day `` , a duet with Boyz II Men , spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100 , and remains the  longest-running number-one song in  U.S. chart history .
दौरान the रिकॉर्डिंग of the एल्बम , कैरी began to deviate इससे उसके r & b और पॉप beginnings और धीरे traversed into हिप  hop .
This musical change  became evident  with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ) , at which time Carey had separated from Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 , and signed a record-breaking $ 100  लाख रिकॉर्डिंग  contract with Virgin Records .
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ) , she suffered a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized   for severe exhaustion .
Following the film 's poor reception , she was bought out of her recording contract for $ 50 million , which led  to a मनाही  in her career .
She  हस्ताक्षरित a multi-million डालर अनुबंध सौदे साथ द्वीप रिकॉर्ड in 2002 , और बाद an unsuccessful काल , लौटे to the शीर्ष of म्यूज़िक चार्ट साथ the emancipation of मिमी ( 2005 ) .
Its second single ``  we belong  Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s , and was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard .
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009  ) ; she was  awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a career spanning over  two decades  , Carey has sold more than 200 million records worldwide , making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
In 1998 , she was honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist  of the  1990s at the World Music Awards .
Carey was also named the  best-selling  female artist of the millennium in 2000 .
According to the Recording Industry Association of  अमेरिका , वो is the  third best-selling female artist in the United States , with 63.5 million certified albums .
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ) , Carey gained her eighteenth number  एक  single in the United States , more than any other solo artist .
In 2012 , Carey was ranked second on  vh1 's  list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music '' .
Aside from her commercial accomplishments , Carey has won five Grammy Awards , 17 World Music Awards , 11  American Music  Awards , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as the `` songbird  परम् ''  by the Guinness World Records , she is famed for her five-octave vocal range , power , melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register .
stratocumulus  stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology , a  बादल is a दृश्य द्रव्यमान of द्रव droplets or frozen crystals बना of जल or विभिन्न रसायन निलंबित in the माहौल ऊपर the सतह of a ग्रहीय देह .
These suspended particles are also known   as aerosols .
Clouds in Earth 's atmosphere are studied in the   cloud physics branch of meteorology .
Two processes , possibly acting together , can lead to air becoming  संतृप्त  ; cooling the air or adding water vapor to the air .
in  general , precipitation will fall to the surface ; an exception is virga , which evaporates before reaching the surface .
The international   cloud classification system is based on the fact clouds in their most basic forms can show free-convective upward growth like cumulus , appear in non-convective layered sheets such as stratus , or take the form of thin fibrous wisps , as in the case of cirrus .
Prefixes are used in connection with clouds to express variations or complexities in these basic  फ़ॉर्म  or to specify middle or high altitude ranges .
These include strato- for low  बादल साथ सीमित संवहन कि रूप ज़्यादातर in uneven  layers , cumulo- for complex highly-convective storm clouds , nimbo- for thick layered clouds of some complexity that can produce moderate to heavy precipitation , alto- for middle clouds , and cirro- for high clouds ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure .
Whether or not a cloud is low ,  middle , or high  level depends on how far above the ground its base forms .
Cloud types with significant vertical extent can form in the  कम  or middle altitude ranges depending on the moisture content of the air .
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the popular adaptation of Luke  Howard 's  cloud categorization system , which began to spread in popularity during December 1802 .
Synoptic surface weather observations use code numbers to record and report the types of  tropospheric बादल दृश्य at प्रत्येक अनुसूचित अवलोकन समय आधारित  on the height and physical appearance of the clouds .
While a majority of clouds form in Earth 's   troposphere , there are occasions when clouds in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed .
These three main layers of the atmosphere where clouds may be seen  are  collectively known as the homosphere .
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere , which together make up the heterosphere that  marks  the transition to outer space .
Clouds have been observed on other planets and moons within the Solar System , but , due to their different temperature characteristics , they are composed of other substances such as methane ,  अमोनिया ,  and sulfuric acid .
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas within the Houston–Sugar  land–baytown  metropolitan area .
As of  the  2010 census , the population was 291,309 .
Its  काउंटी  seat is Galveston .
League City is the largest city in Galveston County in terms of population   ; URL_http between 2000 and 2005 it surpassed Galveston as the county 's largest city .
Galveston County was founded in  1838  .
nassau
freeport ,  Bahamas
इस is a सूची of शहरों in the बहामा .
the following तालिका सूचियाँ the नगर or कस्बा नाम , the भौगोलिक निर्देशांक , the जनसांख्यिकी as of the 1990 जनसांख्यिकी , an अनुमान of the जनसांख्यिकी as of 2009 , और the द्वीप नाम  .
The Big Ten Conference , formerly Western Conference and Big Nine Conference , is the oldest Division I college athletic   conference in the United States .
Its twelve member institutions ( which are primarily flagship research universities in their respective states , well-regarded academically , and with relatively large student  नामांकन ) हैं स्तिथ primarily  in the Midwest , stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east .
The conference competes in the NCAA 's Division I ; its football teams compete in the  फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision  ( FBS ) , formerly known as Division I-A , the highest level of NCAA competition in that sport .
सदस्य स्कूलों of the बिग टेन ( or , in दो मामले , उनके जनक विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणालियों ) भी हैं सदस्यों of the कमेटी on संस्थागत सहयोग , a अग्रणी शैक्षणिक और शोध consortium .
Despite the conference 's name , the Big Ten actually   consists of 12 schools , following the addition of The Pennsylvania State University in 1993 and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011 .
In 2014 , the conference will expand to 14 members with the additions of the University of Maryland ,  कॉलेज पार्क और  Rutgers , The State University of New Jersey .
It is not to be confused with the Big 12 Conference , which has only ten  स्कूलों और  represents a different region of the country .
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in Scotland  using a घट  still distillation process at a single distillery , with malted barley as the only grain ingredient .
As with any Scotch whisky , a single malt Scotch must be distilled in Scotland and matured in oak casks in Scotland for at least three years ( most  सिंगल  malts are matured longer ) .
`` Malt '' indicates that  the  whisky is distilled from a `` malted '' grain .
Several types of grains can be malted ( for example , barley , rye and wheat are all grains which can be malted ) ; however  , in the मामला of सिंगल malt स्कॉच , जौ is  always the only grain used .
`` Single '' indicates that all the malts in the bottle come  इससे a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी  .
Bottlings containing malt whisky from multiple distilleries are called ``  blended malt  `` .
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ) , the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of Scotch whisky ) on bottles of whisky that contained a  मिश्रण of  both barley and non-barley grain whisky , but this is no longer the case .
Under the  शब्दावली स्थापित by the swr 2009 , a ``  blended malt Scotch whisky '' is a mixture of single malt Scotch whiskies , not a mixture of malted barley whisky and non-barley whisky ; those are called `` blended Scotch whisky '' , without the word `` malt '' .
The term ``  blended malt '' replaced  `` vatted malt '' used under the prior labelling conventions .
The age statement on a bottle of single malt Scotch is the number of years the whisky spent maturing  in  cask .
As very few whiskies are bottled from a single cask the age statement reflects the age of the  youngest malt in  the mix .
A texture may be arranged so as to , `` closely approach the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres , for example , the beautiful 'northern lights ' chord ... , in a very interesting distribution of pitches , produces a  fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll `` (  Erickson ( 1975 ) , p.166 & 168 ) .
In contrast to more traditional musical textures , sound mass composition `` minimizes the importance of individual pitches in preference for texture  , timbre , and dynamics as  primary shapers of gesture and impact . ''
Developed from the modernist tone clusters and spread to orchestral writing by the late 1950s and 1960s , sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between  ध्वनि और रव `` ( एडवर्ड्स  2001 , pp . 326–27 ) .
Techniques which may create or be used with sound mass include  विस्तारित  techniques such as muted brass or strings , flutter tonguing , wide vibrato , extreme ranges , and glissandos .
Composers  and works  include Barbara Kolb , Pauline Oliveros ' Sound Patterns for chorus ( 1961 ) , Norma Beecroft 's From Dreams of Brass for chorus ( 1963–1964 ) , and Nancy Van de Vate .
Beecroft `` blurs  व्यक्तिगत  pitches in favor of a collective timbre through the use of vocal and instrumental clusters , choral speech , narrator , and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape . ''
(  ibid  )
a बहुत जल्दी उदाहरण is the खोलने of jean-féry विद्रोही 's बैले लेस elémens ( 1737–38 ) , जहाँ अराजकता is represented by a धीरे cumulating orchestral क्लस्टर of सब सात टीप of the d नाबालिग स्केल ( henck 2004 , pp  . 52–54 ) .
A later example is the third movement of Ruth Crawford  seeger  's String Quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) while more recently Phill Niblock 's multiple drone based music serves as an example .
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and Edgard Varèse often carefully scored individual instrumental  भाग so  that they would fuse into one ensemble timbre or sound mass ( Erickson 1975 , pp . 18 and 21 ) .
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the fifties and sixties such as Krzysztof Penderecki 's Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima  ( 1959 ) and György  Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ) .
Other composers with works using this technique include Henryk Górecki , Karel Husa , Witold Lutosławski , Kazimierz  serocki  , and Steven Stucky .
ध्वनि द्रव्यमान तकनीकों भी appear in the म्यूज़िक of जार्ज crumb ( anon .  n.d. ) .
Students attending a lecture on linear algebra at the Helsinki  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Technology
Pupils in rural  सूडान  , 2002
A student is a learner , or someone who attends an  शैक्षणिक संस्था  .
In some nations , the  अंग्रेज़ी पद ( or इसके cognate in another  language ) is reserved for those who attend university , while a schoolchild under the age of eighteen is called a pupil in English ( or an equivalent in other languages ) , although in the United States a person enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student .
In its widest use , student is used for  anyone  who is learning .
Australia is a continent comprising mainland Australia ,  तस्मानिया , नई गिनी ,  Seram , possibly Timor , and neighbouring islands .
The continent is sometimes known in technical contexts by the names Sahul , Australinea or Meganesia , to distinguish it from  the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई  mainland .
It is  the smallest of  the seven traditional continents in the English conception .
New Zealand is not part of the continent of  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , but of the separate , submerged continent of Zealandia .
Zealandia and Australia are  दोनो भाग  of the wider regions known as Australasia and Oceania .
The continent of Australia lies on a continental shelf overlain by shallow  समंदर जिससे divide it into  several landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres Strait between mainland Australia and New Guinea , and Bass Strait between mainland Australia and Tasmania .
When sea  स्तर यहूद निम्नतर  during the Pleistocene ice age , including the last glacial maximum about 18,000 BC , they were connected by dry land .
During the past ten thousand years , rising  समुद्र  levels overflowed the lowlands and separated the continent into today 's low-lying arid to semi-arid mainland and the two mountainous islands of New Guinea and Tasmania .
Geologically , a continent extends to the edge of   its continental shelf , so the now-separate islands are considered part of the continent .
Due to the spread of animals , fungi  और पौधे आरपार  the single Pleistocene landmass the separate lands have a related biota .
Central Park is nearly twice as  बिग as the  world 's second-smallest country , Monaco .
Historically its  टंकी यहूद  important components of the city 's water supply .
Environmental issues in New York City are affected by the city 's size , density ,  abundant पब्लिक परिवहन  infrastructure , and location at the mouth of the Hudson River .
New York 's population  घनत्व  has environmental pros and cons .
It  facilitates  the highest mass transit use in the United States , but also concentrates pollution .
Gasoline consumption in the city is at the rate the national average was in the 1920s , and greenhouse gas emissions are a fraction of the   national average , at 7.1 metric tons per person per year , below San Francisco , at 11.2 metric tons , and the national average , at 24.5 metric tons .
New York City accounts for only 1 % of United States greenhouse gas emissions while housing 2.7 % of its  जनसांख्यिकी  .
In September 2012 , New York was named the # 1 `` America 's Dirtiest City , '' by a Travel+Leisure readership survey that rated the  पर्यावरणीय विशेषता of 35 prominent  cities in the United States .
Atlanta ( , stressed , locally ) is the capital of and the most populous city in the U.S. state of Georgia ,  साथ an अनुमानित 2011 जनसांख्यिकी of  432,427 .
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the Atlanta metropolitan area , home to 5,457,831 people and the ninth largest metropolitan area  in the  United States .
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton County , and a small portion of the city extends eastward into DeKalb   County .
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad lines ,  और the  city rose from the ashes of the Civil War to become a national center of commerce .
In the decades following the Civil Rights Movement , during which the city earned a reputation as `` too busy to hate '' for the progressive  views of its  citizens and leaders , Atlanta attained international prominence .
Atlanta is the primary  परिवहन हब of the southeastern  United States , via highway , railroad , and air , with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the world 's busiest airport since 1998 .
Atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) world city , '' and ,  साथ a सकल  domestic product of US $ 270 billion , Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among world cities and sixth in the nation .
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse , dominant  सेक्टर शामिल  logistics , professional and business services , media operations , government administration , and higher education .
Topographically , Atlanta is marked by rolling hills and  घना  tree coverage .
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods , initially spurred by the 1996 Olympics , has intensified in the 21st century ,  altering the नगर  's demographics , politics , and culture .
A 1947 propaganda comic book published by the Catechetical Guild Educational Society raising the  specter  of a Communist takeover
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of disloyalty , subversion , or treason without proper regard for  प्रमाण  .
It also means `` the practice of making unfair allegations or using unfair investigative techniques  , especially in  order to restrict dissent or political criticism . ''
The term has its origins in the period in the United States known as the Second Red Scare , lasting roughly from 1950 to 1956 and  characterized  by heightened fears of communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents .
Originally coined to  criticize the anti-communist pursuits of रिपब्लिकन u.s . सीनेटर जोसेफ मैकार्थी of विस्कॉन्सिन , `` mccarthyism '' जल्द took on a broader अर्थ , describing the excesses of समान प्रयत्न .
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless , unsubstantiated accusations , as well as  demagogic  attacks on the character or patriotism of political adversaries .
दौरान  the McCarthy era , thousands of Americans were accused of being Communists or communist sympathizers and became the subject of aggressive investigations and questioning before government or private-industry panels , committees and agencies .
The primary targets of  ऐसे  suspicions were government employees , those in the entertainment industry , educators and union activists .
Suspicions were often given credence despite inconclusive or questionable evidence , and the level of threat posed by a person  's रियल or supposed  leftist associations or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated .
Many people suffered loss of employment and/or destruction of  उनके करियर  ; some even suffered imprisonment .
Most  of these punishments came about  through trial verdicts later overturned , laws that would be declared unconstitutional , dismissals for reasons later declared illegal or actionable , or extra-legal procedures that would come into general disrepute .
The most famous examples of McCarthyism include the speeches , investigations , and hearings of Senator McCarthy himself ; the Hollywood blacklist , associated  with hearings conducted by the  House Un-American Activities Committee ( HUAC ) ; and the various anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover .
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural phenomenon that affected  all  levels of society and was the source of a great deal of debate and conflict in the United States .
नेपोलियन is a fictional अक्षर और the प्रमुख विपक्षी in जार्ज ऑरवेल 's एनिमल फार्म  .
While he is at  पहला a आम  farm pig , he gets rid of Snowball , another pig which shares the power .
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their masters to eventually become the tyrannical `` President of Animal Farm , '' which he turns  into a तानाशाही  .
वरुण  logo
The NEPTUNE Canada   project is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed people to `` surf ''  the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों  run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world .
Along with its sister project , VENUS , NEPTUNE  offers  a unique approach to ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out their research ,  जबकि the वरुण प्रोजेक्ट उपयोग  a remotely operated crawler .
The Coronet was a full-size car from Dodge in the 1950s , initially the  प्रभाग  's highest trim line but , starting in 1955 , the lowest trim line .
In the 1960s , the name was transferred to Dodge 's mid-size   entry .
ARM9 is an ARM  वास्तुकला 32-bit  RISC CPU family .
राष्ट्रमंडल is a परंपरागत अंग्रेज़ी पद लिये a राजनैतिक जातियाँ संस्थापित लिये the आम  good .
Historically , it has   sometimes been synonymous with `` republic `` .
More recently it has been used for fraternal  एसोसिएशन  of some sovereign nations .
Most notably , the Commonwealth of Nations , an association primarily of former members   of the British Empire , is often referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth '' .
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11 , September 11th , or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist  attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist  group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger  airliners यहूद hijacked  by 19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes , American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175 , were crashed into the North and South towers , respectively , of the  संसार व्यापार  Center complex in New York City .
Within two hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the WTC complex , as well as major damage to ten other large surrounding  structures  .
A third plane , American  एयरलाइंस उड़ान 77  , was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ) , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 , was targeted at the United States Capitol in Washington , D.C. , but crashed into a field near Shanksville ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया , बाद इसके यात्री  tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total ,  लगभग 3,000 लोगों died in the हमले , सहित the 227 नागरिकों और 19 hijackers सवार the चार planes .
Suspicion quickly fell on  al-qaeda  .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin Laden , initially denied any involvement , in  2004 he claimed  responsibility for the attacks .
Al-Qaeda  और बिन लादेन cited u.S. support of इसराईल , the उपस्थिति of u.S. सैनिकों in सऊदी अरब , और प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध इराकी as motives लिये the हमले .
The United  राज्य responded to the हमले by शुभारंभ the युद्ध on आतंक और आक्रमणकारी अफगानिस्तान to depose the तालिबान , जिससे था harbored al-qaeda .
Many   countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and expanded law enforcement powers .
Having evaded capture for years , bin Laden was located and killed by U.S. forces in  may  2011 .
The destruction of the Twin Towers  and other properties caused serious  damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the World Trade Center site was completed in May 2002 , and the Pentagon was   repaired within a year .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York , the Pentagon Memorial  , and the Flight 93  National Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a lengthy delay ,  the  One World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013 .
Crater Lake National Park is a United States National  पार्क स्तिथ  in southern Oregon .
Established in 1902 , Crater Lake National Park is the fifth oldest national park in the United  राज्य और the तभी एक in  the state of Oregon .
The park encompasses the caldera of Crater  Lake , a  remnant of a destroyed volcano , Mount Mazama , and the surrounding hills and forests .
The lake is deep at its deepest point , which makes it the deepest lake in the United States , the second deepest in North America and the ninth deepest in  the संसार  .
Crater Lake is often referred to as the seventh deepest lake in the world , but this former listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial Lake Vostok in Antarctica , which  resides  under nearly of ice , and the recent report of a maximum depth for Lake O'Higgins /San Martin , located on the border of Chile and Argentina .
However , when comparing its average depth of to the average depth of other deep lakes , Crater Lake becomes the deepest in the Western Hemisphere and the  तीसरा  deepest in the world .
The impressive average depth of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly symmetrical deep caldera formed 7,700  सालो पहले दौरान the हिंसक climactic eruptions  and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range .
The caldera rim ranges in  उन्नयन  from .
The   United States Geological Survey benchmarked elevation of the lake surface itself is .
इस नेशनल  Park encompasses .
crater झील  has no streams flowing into or out of it .
All water that enters the lake is eventually lost from evaporation or subsurface seepage  .
The lake 's water  commonly रै a  striking blue hue , and the lake is re-filled entirely from direct precipitation in the form of snow and rain .
The  परम् अदालत  of the United States is the highest court in the United States .
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate jurisdiction  over सब संघीय न्यायालयों और over राज्य  court cases involving issues of federal law , and original jurisdiction over a small range of cases .
The Court , which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in Washington , D.C. , consists of a chief justice and eight associate  justices  who are nominated by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate .
Once appointed , justices  have जीवन  tenure unless they resign , retire , or are removed after impeachment .
Conroe is the seat of Montgomery County and falls  भीतर the महानगर  area .
It  is स्तिथ  about north of Houston .
As of July 2011 , the city   population was 58,973 , up from 36,811 in 2000 .
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement , which adherents believe contains writings of ancient prophets who lived on the American continent from  approximately 2200  BC to AD 421 .
It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph  स्मिथ as the किताब of mormon  : An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi .
According to Smith 's account , and also according to the book 's narrative , the Book of Mormon was originally written in otherwise unknown characters referred to as `` reformed  Egyptian `` engraved on  golden plates .
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book , a man named Moroni , buried it in a hill in present-day New York and then returned to earth in 1827 as an angel , revealing the location of the book to Smith and instructing him to translate and  disseminate it as प्रमाण of the बहाली  of Christ 's true church in the latter days .
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive doctrinal discussions on subjects such as the fall of Adam and Eve , the nature of the Atonement , eschatology , redemption  from physical and  spiritual death , and the organization of the latter-day church .
The pivotal event of the book is an appearance of Jesus Christ to the Americas shortly after his resurrection   .
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique  कृतियाँ of the latter दिन संत गति , the denominations  of which typically regard the text not only as scripture but also as a historical record of God 's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas .
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller  books , titled  after the individuals named as primary authors and , in most versions , divided into chapters and verses .
It is written in  अंग्रेज़ी  , very similar to the Early Modern English linguistic style of the King James Version of the Bible , and has since been fully or partially translated into 108 languages .
An enlisted rank ( also known as an enlisted grade or enlisted rate ) is  ,  in most militaries , any rank below that of a commissioned officer or warrant officer .
The term can also be inclusive of non-commissioned   officers .
In most cases , enlisted service personnel perform jobs specific to their own occupational specialty , as opposed to the more generalized command responsibilities of  commissioned  officers .
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George   David Weiss .
It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released as a single  in 1967  .
Thiele and Weiss were both  prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार (  Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's recording was inducted in the Grammy  हॉल of  Fame in 1999 .
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group , Carlin Music Corp.  , and  Bug Music , Inc .
1908  पोस्टर विज्ञापन  Gaumont 's sound films .
The  chronomégaphone  , designed for large halls , employed compressed air to amplify the recorded sound .
A sound film is a  गति चित्र  with synchronized sound , or sound technologically coupled to image , as opposed to a silent film .
The first known public exhibition of projected sound films took place in Paris in 1900 , but decades would pass  पहले  sound motion pictures were made commercially practical .
Reliable synchronization was difficult to achieve with the early sound-on-disc systems ,  और  amplification and recording quality were also inadequate .
Innovations in sound-on-film led to the first commercial screening of short motion pictures using the technology , which took place   in 1923 .
The primary steps in the  व्यावसायीकरण of  sound cinema were taken in the mid- to late 1920s .
At first , the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '' , or `` talkies '' —were exclusively shorts ; the earliest feature-length movies with recorded sound included  तभी म्यूज़िक और  effects .
The  पहला  feature film originally presented as a talkie was The Jazz Singer , released in October 1927 .
A major hit , it was made with Vitaphone , the  अग्रणी  brand of sound-on-disc technology .
Sound-on-film , however , would soon become the standard for talking  तस्वीरें  .
By the early 1930s  ,  the talkies were a global phenomenon .
In the United States , they helped secure Hollywood 's position as one of the world  's  most powerful cultural/commercial systems ( see Cinema of the United States ) .
In Europe ( and , to a lesser degree , elsewhere ) the new development  was treated with  suspicion by many filmmakers and critics , who worried that a focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema .
In Japan , where the popular film tradition integrated silent movie and live vocal performance , talking  तस्वीरें यहूद slow to लो रूट  .
In India , sound was the transformative element that  led  to the rapid expansion of the nation 's film industry—the most productive such industry in the world since the early 1960s .
African people are natives or inhabitants of Africa and people of  अफ़्रीकी  descent .
The  ऑस्ट्रेलियाई रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार ( commonly ज्ञात as aria म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार or aria पुरस्कार ) is an सालाना श्रेणी of पुरस्कार नाइट्स celebrating the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई म्यूज़िक उद्योग , put on by the ऑस्ट्रेलियाई रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ ( aria ) .
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( these are what is usually being referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as  ठीक कला पुरस्कार और कारीगर पुरस्कार ( आयोजित  separately from 2004 ) , Lifetime Achievement Awards and ARIA Hall of Fame – held separately from 2005 to 2010 but returned to the general ceremony in 2011 .
For   2010 , ARIA introduced public voted awards for the first time .
Winning , or even being nominated for , an ARIA award results in a lot of media attention on an artist , and usually increases recording sales several-fold  – in 2005 ,  for example , after Ben Lee won three awards , his album Awake Is the New Sleep jumped from No . 31 to No . 5 in the ARIA Charts , its highest position .
For-profit education ( also known as the  शिक्षा सेवाएं उद्योग or मालिकाना  education ) refers to educational institutions operated by private , profit -seeking businesses .
There are three types of for-profit  स्कूलों  .
एक प्रकार is ज्ञात as an शैक्षणिक प्रबन्धन संगठन ( भावनाएं ) , और ये हैं प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शैक्षणिक  institutions .
EMOs work with school districts or charter  स्कूलों  , using public funds to finance operations .
The majority of for-profit schools in the K–12 sector in America function as EMOs ,  and  have grown in number in the mid-2000s .
The other major category of for-profit  स्कूलों हैं post-secondary  institutions which operate as businesses , receiving fees from each student they enroll .
A third type of for-profit schools , which is less prevalent in the United  States , are K–12  schools which operate as businesses .
EMOs function differently from charter schools created in order to carry out a particular teaching pedagogy ; most charter schools are mission-oriented , while EMOs and other for-profit institutions are  market-oriented  .
While supporters  argue  that the profit motive encourages efficiency , this arrangement has also drawn controversy and criticism .
Kevin Carey , director of the education policy program of the New American Foundation said in a 2010 column in The Chronicle of Higher Education that `` For-profits exist in large part to fix educational market failures left   by traditional institutions , and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore . ''
He also noted that `` There 's no doubt that the worst for-profits are   ruthlessly exploiting the commodified college degree .
But they did n't commodify it  in  the first place . ''
Amendment XXII in the  नेशनल  Archives
The Twenty-second Amendment  of the United  States Constitution sets a term limit for election to the office of President of the United States .
Congress passed  the amendment  on March 21 , 1947 .
It was ratified by the requisite number of states  on  February 27 , 1951 .
This is an episode guide  लिये the  anime series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo .
This list encompasses every episode , beginning with the original Japanese-language title as they aired on TV Asahi , followed by the title used in the English  उतावले  version airing in the United States on Cartoon Network .
A  छोटी सारांश होगा follow , introducing the एपीसोड और referring to कुछ of the ढकोसला , लकिन नहीं giving the पूरा summaries to the एपीसोड .
All names and some of the references will be the ones used from the English-language  संस्करण to avoid  confusion .
Japanese  names  may be presented after the dub name in parentheses .
This article is about   the public park in New York City .
For other uses , see   Central Park ( disambiguation ) .
Central Park is a public park at the center of  मैनहटन  in New York City .
The  park  initially opened in 1857 , on of city-owned land ( it is 843 acres today ) .
In 1858 , Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux won a design competition to improve and  expand the park  with a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan .
Construction began the same year , continued during the American Civil War , and was  समाप्त  in 1873 .
Central Park is the most visited urban park in the  संयुक्त  States .
Designated a National Historic Landmark in  1962  , the park is currently managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract with the city government .
The Conservancy is a non-profit organization that contributes 83.5 % of Central Park 's $ 37.5 million annual budget , and  employs  80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff .
TracFone Wireless , Inc. is a prepaid  बेतार सेवा प्रदाता  operating in the United States including Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands and is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest telecommunications provider , América Móvil .
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator ( MVNO ) , TracFone Wireless holds multiple agreements with the US largest wireless  दूरसंचार  companies to utilize their networks to provide service including those of Verizon , AT & T , Sprint , and T-Mobile .
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under multiple brands  जिससे प्रत्येक भी  offer distinctive service plans , the brands include TracFone , NET10 Wireless , Straight Talk , SafeLink Wireless , Telcel América and Simple Mobile .
A grab  dredge
Dredging is an excavation activity or operation usually carried out at least partly underwater  , in shallow seas or fresh  water areas with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location .
This  तकनीक  is often used to keep waterways navigable .
It is  भी प्रयुक्त as a रास्ता  to replenish sand on some public beaches , where sand has been lost because of coastal erosion .
dredging is भी प्रयुक्त as a तकनीक लिये फ़िशिंग लिये निश्चित प्रजाति of खाद्य क्लेम और केकड़े , देखिए फ़िशिंग  dredge .
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the Americas ) is any device , machine , or  पोत  that is used to excavate and remove material from the bottom of a body of water .
For example , a scoop attached to the end of a rope or pole by which a man can draw  sediments  up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger .
Developing this idea further , a motorized crane equipped with a drag bucket or clamshell ( grabber  )  that is used to scoop material from the bottom of a body of water is also a dredger .
The crane could  be  located on the bank , or perhaps mounted on a barge .
If the crane is mounted on a barge , the entire vessel is  referred  to as a dredger .
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess material ) , which are carried away from  the dredged  area .
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or other purposes (  usually  construction-related ) , and has also historically played a significant role in gold mining .
Dredging can create disturbance in aquatic ecosystems , often with   adverse impacts .
Cleveland Volcano  in the aleutian  Islands of Alaska photographed from the International Space Station , May 2006 .
राख  plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
a ज्वालामुखी is an खोलने , or rupture , in  a planet 's surface or crust , which allows hot magma , volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface .
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic plates are diverging   or converging .
a mid-oceanic लकीरें , लिये उदाहरण the mid-atlantic लकीरें , रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत रिंग of आग रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अभिसारी tectonic प्लेटों  coming together .
By contrast , volcanoes are usually not created where   two tectonic plates slide past one another .
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching  और thinning  of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates , e.g. , in the East African Rift , the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This type of volcanism falls under the umbrella of ``  थाली परिकल्पना  '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from plate boundaries  रै भी  been explained as mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii ,  हैं postulated  to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km deep in the Earth .
Erupting  ज्वालामुखी  can pose many hazards , not only in the immediate vicinity of the eruption .
volcanic राख can be a threat to वायुयान , in particular those साथ जेट इंजन जहाँ राख अणु can be melted by the ऊँची ऑपरेटिंग तापमान .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or  troposphere ; however ,  they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically ,  so-called volcanic  winters have caused catastrophic famines .
Benedict  अर्नाल्ड ( जून 14 , 1801 ) थी a सामान्य दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध जो originally लड़ा लिये the अमरीकी महाद्वीपीय फौज लकिन defected to the अंग्रेजों फौज .
While a general on the American side , he obtained command of the fort at West Point , New York , and planned to  आत्मसमर्पण it  to the British forces .
After the plan was exposed in September 1780 ,  he थी commissioned  into the British Army as a brigadier general .
born in कनेक्टिकट , अर्नाल्ड थी a व्यापारी ऑपरेटिंग जहाजों on the अटलांटिक समंदर जब the युद्ध broke आउट in 1775  .
After joining the growing   army outside Boston , he distinguished himself through acts of intelligence and bravery .
His actions included the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775 , defensive and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776 , the Battle of Ridgefield  , Connecticut (  after which he was promoted to major general ) , operations in relief of the Siege of Fort Stanwix , and key actions during the pivotal Battles of Saratoga in 1777 , in which he suffered leg injuries that ended his combat career for several years .
Despite Arnold 's successes , he was passed over for promotion by the Continental Congress while  other  officers claimed credit for some of his accomplishments .
Adversaries in military and political circles brought charges of corruption or other malfeasance  ,  but most often he was acquitted in formal inquiries .
Congress investigated his accounts and  found he  was indebted to Congress after spending much of his own money on the war effort .
Frustrated and bitter , Arnold decided to change sides in 1779 , and opened  secret negotiations  with the British .
In July  1780 , he थी offered , जारी to pursue और थी awarded कमांड of वेस्ट पाइंट .
अर्नाल्ड 's योजना to आत्मसमर्पण  the fort to the British was exposed when American forces captured British Major John André carrying papers that revealed the plot .
Upon learning of  आंद्रे 's कैप्चर , अर्नाल्ड fled bas the हडसन  River to the British sloop-of-war Vulture , narrowly avoiding capture by the forces of George Washington , who had been alerted to the plot .
Arnold received a commission as a brigadier general in the British Army ,  an सालाना पेंशन  of £360 , and a lump sum of over £6,000 .
He led British forces on raids in Virginia , and  विरूद्ध  New London and Groton , Connecticut , before the war effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown .
In the winter of 1782 , Arnold moved to London with his second wife , Margaret `` Peggy '' Shippen  अर्नाल्ड .
He   was well received by King George III and the Tories but frowned upon by the Whigs .
In 1787 , he returned to the merchant  कारोबार साथ  his sons Richard and Henry in Saint John , New Brunswick .
He returned to London to settle permanently in 1791  ,  where he died ten years later .
Because of the way he changed sides , his name quickly became a in  the  United States for treason or betrayal .
His conflicting legacy is recalled in the  ambiguous  nature of some of the memorials that have been placed in his honor .
Curtis Montague Schilling ( born November 14 ,   1966 ) is a former American Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher and Video Game developer .
He helped lead the Philadelphia Phillies to the World Series in and won World Series   championships in with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with the Boston Red Sox .
Schilling retired with a career postseason record  of  11–2 .
His .846 postseason winning percentage is a major-league  रिकार्ड among  pitchers with at least 10 decisions .
After retiring , he founded Green Monster  खेल  which was renamed 38 Studios .
The company released  kingdoms  of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012 , but just three months later , Schilling laid off his entire staff amid severe financial troubles that resulted in the company missing payroll the previous week .
Star Wars is an  अमरीकी एपिक स्पेस  opera franchise centered on a film series created by George Lucas .
The film series has spawned a media franchise outside the film series called the Expanded Universe including books , television series , computer  और वीडियो खेल , और कॉमिक  books .
These supplements to the film trilogies have resulted in significant  विकास  of the series ' fictional universe .
These media kept the franchise active in the interim between the  फिल्मी trilogies  .
The franchise  portrays  a galaxy that is described as far , far away in the distant past .
It commonly portrays Jedi as a representation of good , in conflict with the  सिथ , उनके दुष्ट  counterpart .
Their weapon of choice , the lightsaber , is commonly   recognized in popular culture .
The  fictional  universe also contains many themes , especially influences of philosophy and religion .
The  पहला फिल्मी in the श्रेणी थी originally  released on May 25 , 1977 , under the title Star Wars , by 20th Century Fox , and became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon , followed by two sequels , released at three-year intervals .
Sixteen years after the release of the  त्रयी  's final film , the first in a new prequel trilogy of films was released .
The three prequel films were also released at three-year  intervals , साथ the फाइनल  film of the trilogy released on May 19 , 2005 .
In October 2012 , The Walt Disney Company acquired Lucasfilm for $ 4.05 billion and announced that it would  उपज तीन नई  films , with the first film , Star Wars Episode VII , planned for release in 2015 .
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution rights to the  पहला दो स्टार युद्धों trilogies , owning स्थाई अधिकारों लिये  the original film Episode IV : A New Hope , while holding the rights to Episodes I–III , V and VI until May 2020 .
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive , with the last film being considered the weakest , while the prequel trilogy received a more mixed reaction , with most of the praise being  for  the final movie , according to most review aggregator websites .
All six of the main films in the series were also  मनोनीत लिये  or won Academy Awards .
All of the main films have been box office successes , with the overall box office revenue generated by the Star Wars films ( including the theatrical Star Wars  : The Clone  Wars ) totalling $ 4.49 billion , making it the third-highest-grossing film series .
The success has  भी led to अनेक  re-releases in theaters for the series .
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis , though these names are rarely used ) is the process of collecting thrombocytes , more commonly called platelets , a component of  रक्त शामिल in रक्त  clotting .
The term specifically refers to the method  of collecting  the platelets , which is performed by a device used in blood donation that separates the platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor .
Platelet transfusion can be a life-saving procedure in preventing or treating serious complications from bleeding and hemorrhage  in  patients who have disorders manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction .
This process may also  be प्रयुक्त therapeutically  to treat disorders resulting in extraordinarily high platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis .
In computer networking , a port is an application-specific or process-specific software construct serving as a communications endpoint in a  कंप्यूटर 's  host operating system .
A port is associated with an IP address of the host , as well as the type  of  protocol used for communication .
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications  or  processes running on a single computer and thereby enable them to share a single physical connection to a packet-switched network like the Internet .
The protocols that primarily use ports are the Transport Layer protocols , such as the Transmission Control Protocol ( TCP ) and the User Datagram Protocol ( UDP ) of  the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट  .
A port is identified  लिये प्रत्येक पता  and protocol by a 16-bit number , commonly known as the port number .
The port number ,  added to a  computer 's IP address , completes the destination address for a communications session .
That is , data packets are routed across the network to a specific destination IP address , and then , upon reaching the destination computer , are  further routed to the विशिष्ट प्रक्रम बंधी to the  destination port number .
Note that it is the combination of IP address  and  port number together that must be globally unique .
Thus , different IP addresses or protocols may use the same port number for communication ; e.g. , on a given host or interface UDP and TCP may use the same port number , or on a host with two  अंतरफलक , दोनो पता may  be associated with a port having the same number .
Of the thousands of enumerated ports , about 250 well-known ports are reserved by convention to identify specific service  types on  a host .
In the client-server model of application architecture , ports are used to  provide  a multiplexing service on each server-side port number that network clients connect to for service initiation , after which communication can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers .
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in northwest Arkansas , including the cities of Fort Smith , Fayetteville , Springdale , Rogers and Bentonville : the  दूसरी , तीसरा  , fourth , eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state , respectively .
It was created in 2002 in a split   from area code 501 .
Area code 479 serves Benton , Carroll ( split with area code 870 ) , Crawford , Franklin , Johnson , Logan , Madison ,  polk , पोप , स्कॉट  , Sebastian , Washington and Yell Counties in Arkansas .
Arraignment is a formal reading of a  दण्ड  charging document in the presence of the defendant to inform the defendant of the charges against him or her .
In response to arraignment , the accused is  अपेक्षित  to enter a plea .
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions , but they generally include `` guilty ''  , `` नहीं अपराधी  '' , and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar ) setting out reasons why a trial can not proceed .
Pleas of `` nolo contendere `` ( no contest ) and the `` Alford plea `` are allowed in some  हालातों  .
In England , Wales , Northern Ireland and Australia , arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a criminal trial , and involves the clerk of the court  पढना आउट the  indictment .
The defendant is asked whether he or she pleads guilty or not   guilty to each charge .
In federal courts of the United States , arraignment takes   place in two stages .
The first is called the initial arraignment and must take place within 48 hours of an individual 's  गिरफ़्तार , 72 घंटों  if the individual was arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday .
During this arraignment the defendant is informed of the pending legal charges and is informed of his or her right to   retain counsel .
the पीठासीन  judge also decides at what amount , if any , to set bail .
दौरान  the second arraignment , a post-indictment arraignment or PIA , the defendant is allowed to enter a plea .
Geoffrey Chaucer   ( ; c. 1343 – 25 October 1400 ) , known as the Father of English literature , is widely considered the greatest English poet of the Middle Ages and was the first poet to have been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey .
While he achieved fame during his lifetime as an author , philosopher , alchemist and astronomer , composing a scientific treatise on the astrolabe for his ten year-old son Lewis , Chaucer also maintained an active  करियर  in the civil service as a bureaucrat , courtier and diplomat .
Among his many works , which include The Book of the Duchess , the House of Fame , the Legend of Good Women and  troilus और criseyde , he is बेहतरीन ज्ञात आज  for The Canterbury Tales .
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the vernacular , Middle English ,  at a समय जब the प्रबल  literary languages in England were French and Latin .
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979 was a major blizzard that affected northern Illinois and northwest  Indiana , U.S. on  January 13 – January 14 , 1979 .
of snow fell  on January  13 alone , setting a new record for snow in one calendar day .
By the end  of जनवरी  14 , of snow had fallen .
The cold weather and snowfall throughout the rest of January and February resulted in frozen tracks  throughout  the Chicago 'L ' system .
Commuters crowded onto CTA buses , quickly overwhelming capacity ,  resulting  in usual bus commutes of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours .
to avoid विशाल snowdrifts in the गलियों , the overcrowded बसें यहूद obliged to लो numerous detours , adding अतिरिक्त समय to the भ्रमण  .
Deployment of plows was significantly  विलम्बित  and when they finally appeared they struggled to keep up with the snowfall .
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the next 2 months , causing ongoing public transit delays and significant problems  with trash  collection .
The city 's inadequate response to the blizzard was blamed primarily on mayor Michael Bilandic  ,  who had assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley .
Newspaper articles at the time  blasted bilandic ; जेन  Byrne , Bilandic 's main political rival in the Democratic primary ( who had previously worked with Bilandic in the Daley administration and been fired by Bilandic when the two could not get along ) , capitalized on this and went on to defeat Bilandic in the February 27 primary .
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the day are divided into two periods : a.m. ( from the Latin ante meridiem  , meaning ``  before midday '' ) and p.m. ( post meridiem , `` after midday '' ) .
प्रत्येक  period consists of 12 hours numbered : 12 ( acting as zero ) , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , and 11 .
The 12-hour clock   was developed over time from the mid-second millennium BC to the 16th century AD .
Health spending per capita , in $ US PPP-adjusted , with the US and Canada compared amongst   other first world nations .
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada and the United  राज्य हैं प्रायः बना by  government , public health and public policy analysts .
The two countries had similar health care systems before Canada reformed  its system in the  1960s and 1970s .
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada  , on both a  per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 , per-capita spending for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ;  in  the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The U.S. spent  15.3 % of  GDP on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of health care  spending in  Canada was financed by government , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 %  उच्चतर than कनाडाई सरकारी बिता , और u.S.  government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences .
Studies have come to different  conclusions परिचय the  result of this disparity in spending .
A 2007  पुनर्विलोकन of सब अध्ययन comparing स्वास्थ्य outcomes in कनाडा और the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed चिकित्सा जर्नल मिला कि `` स्वास्थ्य outcomes may be श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन मतभेद हैं नहीं सतत . ''
Life expectancy is  longer in कनाडा  , and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S. , but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization  's  ratings of `` overall health service performance '' , which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health , the distribution of health , the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '' , or  विशेषता of सेवा  for individuals receiving treatment , as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for  Canadians was 80.34 years compared  with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior .
The WHO 's study methods were   criticized by some analyses .
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant  मृत्यु चिह्नित  the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care , assuming the population makeup is similar , a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
Tarantulas comprise a group of often hairy and very large arachnids belonging  to the Theraphosidae family of  spiders , of which approximately 900 species have been identified .
This article only describes members of Theraphosidae , although some other members of the same  suborder  are commonly referred to as `` tarantulas '' .
Most species of tarantulas are not dangerous to humans  , and  some species have become popular in the exotic pet trade .
The ton is a unit of  माप  .
It has a long history and has acquired a number of  meanings  and uses over the years .
It is used principally as a unit of weight , and   as a unit of volume .
It can also be used as a measure of energy , for truck   classification , or as a colloquial term .
It is derived from the tun , the term applied to a barrel of  the largest आकार  .
This could contain a volume between 210 and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 L ) , which could weigh  around 2,000 पाउंड ( 900 kg ) और  occupy some of space .
In the United Kingdom the ton is defined as (  avoirdupois  pounds ) .
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication and gradually introduced metric units , including the tonne (  मीट्रिक ton )  , a non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg .
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from use for trade  अनेक इकाई और शर्तें , सहित the ton और  the term `` metric ton '' for `` tonne ''
In the United States and formerly  कनाडा a ton is  defined to be .
Where confusion is possible , the 2240 lb  ton is पुकारा `` long ton `` और the 2000 lb ton `` छोटी ton `` ; the टन is विशिष्ट  by its spelling , but usually pronounced the same as ton , hence the US term `` metric ton '' .
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be pronounced (  /ˈtʌnɪ/  ) , or `` metric ton '' when it is necessary to make the distinction .
Where accuracy is required the correct term must be used , but for many purposes this is  नहीं  necessary : the metric and long tons differ by only 1.6 % , and the short ton is within 11 % of both .
The ton is the heaviest unit of weight referred to  in colloquial वाक  .
The term `` ton '' is also used to refer  to a क्रमांक  of units of volume , ranging from in capacity .
It can also be used as a unit of energy ,  expressed as an  equivalent of coal burnt , TNT detonated , or in refrigeration , ice melted .
In Britain , ton is used in slang in several  contexts  to mean `` 100 '' .
As a cost  or  a speed , a ton is widely understood to be £100 or 100 mph .
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the championship  trophy awarded  annually to the National Hockey League ( NHL ) playoff winner after the conclusion of the Stanley Cup Finals .
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup , the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of Preston , then- Governor General of Canada , who awarded it to Canada 's top-ranking amateur ice hockey club , which the entire Stanley family   supported , with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game .
The first Cup was awarded in 1893 to  मॉन्ट्रियल  HC .
In 1915 , the two professional ice hockey organizations  , the नेशनल हॉकी संघ  ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey Association ( PCHA ) , reached a gentlemen 's agreement in which their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup .
After a series of league mergers and folds , the Stanley `` Presentation Cup '' was established as the de facto championship trophy of the NHL in 1926 and then the de jure NHL championship  पुरस्कार  in 1947 .
There are actually three Stanley Cups : the  असली कटोरी  of the `` Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup '' , the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '' , and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame .
The NHL has maintained effective control over both the trophy itself and its associated   trademarks .
nevertheless  , the NHL does not actually own the trophy , but instead uses it by agreement with the two Trustees of the Cup .
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup , although the league 's right to outright own trademarks associated with a trophy it  does  not own has been disputed by some legal experts .
Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three major professional sports leagues of North America , a new Stanley Cup is not made each year  ; winners keep it until a new  champion is crowned .
it is असामान्य among ट्राफियां , in कि it रै the names of सब of the जीतना खिलाड़ी , कोच , प्रबन्धन , और क्लबों स्टाफ engraved on इसके  chalice .
Initially ,  a नई बैंड added प्रत्येक साल caused the ट्रॉफी to grow in आकार , कमाई the उपनाम `` stovepipe कप '' .
In 1958 the  आधुनिक  one-piece Cup was designed with a five-band barrel which could contain 13 winning teams per band .
To  avoid the स्टेनली  Cup from growing , when the bottom band is full , the oldest band is removed and preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame , and a new blank band added to the bottom .
It has been referred to as The Cup , Lord Stanley 's Cup , The Holy Grail , or facetiously ( chiefly by sportswriters  ) as रब  Stanley 's Mug .
The Stanley Cup is surrounded by numerous legends and traditions , the oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out  of the कप by the जीतना टोली  .
The original bowl was made of silver and is 18.5 centimetres ( 7.28 inches ) in  ऊँचाई और 29 सेण्टीमीटर  ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter .
The current Stanley Cup , topped with a copy of the original bowl , is made of a silver and nickel alloy ; it has a height of 89.54 centimetres ( 35.25 inches ) and weighs 15.5  गामा ( 34.5  lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ) .
Since the 1914–15  ऋतु  , the Cup has been won a combined 94 times by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams .
Prior to that , the  चुनौती कप  was held by nine different teams .
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 times and are currently the last Canadian-based team  in the एनएचएल to जीत the कप  after winning it in 1993 .
the स्टेनली कप थी नहीं awarded in 1919 क्युकी of a स्पेनी फ्लू महामारी , और in 2005 , as a consequence of the एनएचएल lockout .
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is a tropical plant with edible multiple fruit  consisting  of coalesced berries , and the most economically significant plant in the Bromeliaceae family .
Pineapples may be cultivated from a crown cutting of the fruit , possibly flowering in 20–24 months and  fruiting in the following  six months .
Pineapple does not ripen  significantly  post-harvest .
Pineapples are consumed fresh , cooked ,  juiced , और preserved  , and are found in a wide array of cuisines .
In addition to consumption , in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are used to produce the textile fiber piña - employed as a component of wall paper and furnishings  , amongst other uses  .
In computer science , an  पूर्णांक is a datum  of integral data type , a data type which represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers .
Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or may not be  अनुमत to contain  negative values .
Integers are commonly represented in a computer as a  समूह of शब्दकोष  digits .
The size of the grouping varies so the set of integer  आकार उपलब्धियाँ varies  between different types of computers .
Computer hardware nearly always provides a way to represent a  प्रोसेसर  register or memory address as an integer .
The Gordon  बांध in  Tasmania is a large hydro facility , with an installed capacity of .
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to  विद्युत  generated by hydropower ; the production of electrical power through the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water .
It is the most widely used form of renewable energy ,  हिसाब  for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010 , and is expected to increase about 3.1 % each year for the next 25 years .
Hydropower is produced in 150 countries , with the Asia-Pacific region generating  32  percent of global hydropower in 2010 .
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer , with 721 terawatt-hours of production in 2010 , representing around 17  प्रतिशत of घरेलू विद्युत  use .
There are now three hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 GW : the Three Gorges Dam in China , Itaipu Dam  आरपार the brazil/paraguay  border , and Guri Dam in Venezuela .
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low , making it a competitive source  of  renewable electricity .
The average cost of electricity from a hydro plant larger than 10 megawatts   is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour .
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can be  ramped up और  down very quickly to adapt to changing energy demands .
However , damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can  harm local ecosystems  , and building large dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife .
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed ,  the project produces no  direct waste , and has a considerably lower output level of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants .
Wine boy at a Greek  symposium
The history of wine  spans thousands  of years and is closely intertwined with the history of agriculture , cuisine , civilization and humanity itself .
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known wine production occurred in what is now the country of Georgia around 7000 BCE  ,  with other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE , respectively .
The world 's  oldest known  winery ( dated to 3000 BCE ) was discovered in Areni-1 cave in a mountainous area of Armenia .
url_http  .
Increasingly clear  पुरातत्व प्रमाण indicates  that domestication of the grapevine took place during the Early Bronze Age in the Near East , Sumer and Egypt from around the third millennium BCE .
Evidence of the earliest wine production in Balkans has been uncovered at  पुरातत्व  sites in northern Greece ( Macedonia ) , dated to 4500 BC .
These  वही साइट भी contain  remnants of the world 's earliest evidence of crushed grapes .
In Egypt  , वाइन became a भाग of अंकित इतिहास , playing an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in प्राचीन ceremonial जीवन .
Traces of wild wine dating from  the दूसरी  and first millennia BCE have also been found in China .
Moroccan  वाइन  Kasher label 1930
The Jewish tradition and use of kosher wine is dating   back to biblical times .
The long history of the use and  उत्पादन of वाइन throughout  ancient Israel is backed up by archeological evidence .
Within the Jewish diaspora communities all  around the  globe , the traditional and religious use of kosher wine continued to this day .
Wine , linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus , was common in ancient Greece and Rome , and many of today 's major wine-producing  regions of Western  Europe were established with Phoenician and , later , Roman plantations .
Winemaking technology improved considerably during the time  of the Roman Empire  : many grape varieties and cultivation techniques were known ; the design of the wine press advanced ; and barrels were developed for storing and shipping wine .
Rashi , a medieval French rabbi and called the `` father '' of all commentaries that followed on the Talmud and  the tanakh  , earned his living as a vintner .
Following the decline of Rome and its industrial-scale wine production for export , the Christian Church  in  medieval Europe also became a firm supporter of wine , necessary for celebration of the Catholic Mass . Whereas wine was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures , its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated .
Geber and other Muslim chemists pioneered the distillation of wine for  इस्लामी औषधीय  and industrial purposes such as perfume .
Wine production  धीरे increased , साथ खपत  burgeoning from the 15th century onwards .
Wine production survived the devastating Phylloxera louse of 1887 and eventually  spread to  numerous regions throughout the world .
जिले  of West Bengal
The  Indian  state of West Bengal borders with Nepal , Bhutan , Bangladesh and the Indian states of Bihar , Jharkhand , Odisha , Assam and Sikkim .
The Himalayas lies in the north of the state and the Bay of Bengal is at the  दक्षिण  .
in between उन्हें , the नदी गंगा बहती eastwards और इसके प्रमुख distributary , the हुगली नदी , बहती दक्षिण to पहुँचें the खाड़ी of बंगाल  .
The Siliguri Corridor , which connects North-East India with rest of the India , lies in  the उत्तर  Bengal region of the state .
Geographically , West Bengal is divided into a variety of regions— Darjeeling Himalayan hill region , Terai and Doors region , North Bengal plains , Rarh region , Western plateau  and high  lands , coastal plains , Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta .
In 1947 , when India gained independence , the state of West Bengal was formed with 14   districts , as per partition plan of the then Bengal province of British India .
the पूर्व princely राज्य koch बिहार joined as a ज़िला in 1950 , और the पूर्व फ्रेंच एन्क्लेव chandannagore joined as भाग of the हुगली ज़िला in 1954  .
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to addition of Purulia district to the state and to enlargement of West  दिनाजपुर  district .
Later , larger districts such as West Dinajpur , 24  परगना  and Midnapore were bifurcated .
West Bengal is now divided into nineteen districts under three  विभाजन  .
Districts  हैं administered by ज़िला magistrates , और विभाजन हैं administered by डिवीजनल commissioners .
Kolkata , the  पूंजी  of the state , constitutes the Kolkata district .
Other  जिले हैं further विभाजित into प्रशासनिक इकाई ऐसे as subdivisions और ब्लॉक , administered by sdo और bdo , क्रमशः .
The Panchayati Raj has a three-tier  ढांचा  in the state .
The atomic unit is called a Gram Panchayat , which is the Panchayat  संगठन लिये a संग्रहण  of villages .
the block-level संगठन हैं पुकारा पंचायत samiti , और the district-level संगठन हैं नामित zilla parishad .
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a region that consists of the Caribbean Sea , its islands ( some surrounded by the Caribbean  Sea and some  bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean ) , and the surrounding coasts .
The region  is southeast  of the Gulf of Mexico and the North American mainland , east of Central America , and north of South America .
Situated largely on the Caribbean Plate , the region comprises more than 700 islands , islets  , reefs  , and cays .
(   See the list . )
These islands generally form island arcs that delineate the eastern and northern edges  of the caribbean  Sea .
The Caribbean islands ,  consisting of the वृहद antilles on the उत्तर और the lesser antilles  on the south and east ( including the Leeward Antilles ) , are part of the somewhat larger West Indies grouping , which also includes the Lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea .
In a wider sense , the mainland countries of Belize and Guyana –  historically  and culturally part of the British West Indies – may be included .
Geopolitically  , the caribbean आइलैंड्स हैं प्रायः regarded as a subregion of उत्तर अमेरिका और हैं व्यवस्थित into 30 territories सहित sovereign राज्य , विदेशी विभाग , और dependencies .
From January 3 , 1958 , to  May 31 , 1962 , there was a  short-lived country called the Federation of the West Indies composed of ten English-speaking Caribbean territories , all of which were then UK dependencies .
The West Indies cricket  टोली  continues to represent many of those nations .
This is a list of the 221 towns and 13 cities  in the u.S.  state of New Hampshire .
For each town/city , the table lists the county to which it belongs , its date of incorporation , its population according to the 2010 census , its form of government ,  और इसके प्रिंसिपल  villages .
Cities are  indicated in  boldface .
शहरों  and towns are treated identically under state law .
Cities are just towns whose form of government was changed by a special act of the New  हैम्पशायर  legislature .
However , towns currently are able to change their form of government by simple voter approval of a new municipal charter , with several of  the अधिक populous  towns having already done so .
The main slave routes in  मध्यकालीन  Africa .
This article discusses systems ,  इतिहास  , and effects of slavery within Africa .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade , Maafa , and Slavery in contemporary Africa  लिये अन्य चर्चाएँ  .
`` Slave  हस्तांतरण  in Africa '' .
europeans प्रायः  did not enter the interior regions .
Slavery in  अफ़्रीकी रै  existed throughout the continent for many centuries , and continues in the current day .
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts  of the  continent , as they were in much of the ancient world .
In most African societies  जहाँ गुलामी थी  prevalent , the enslaved people were largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began  , अनेक of the लोकल स्लेव  systems changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many  अलग फ़ॉर्म  and some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world .
Debt slavery , enslavement of war captives , military  गुलामी , और  criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some  trans-saharan व्यापार इससे the  interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions , slavery was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ) .
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of Africa and the   formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s .
Brett  lorenzo favre ( born अक्तूबर 10 , 1969 ) is a पूर्व  American football quarterback who spent the majority of his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was a   20-year veteran of the NFL , having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ) , Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ) , New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500 touchdowns , over 300  interceptions  , over 6,000 completions , and over 10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before  होने चयनित  in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ) .
He was traded to Green Bay on February 10 , 1992 ,  for  the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft .
Favre became the Packers ' starting  quarterback in the fourth  game of the 1992 season , stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season before signing  साथ the वाइकिंग्स  on August 18 , 2009 as their starting quarterback .
He made an NFL record 297 consecutive starts ( 321  सहित  playoffs ) .
He is the only player to  जीत the ap  Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams  to eight division championships ( 1995  , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , five NFC Championship Games ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including most career touchdown passes , most career passing yards , most career pass completions ,  सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें , सबसे करियर interceptions  thrown , most consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
He is also referred to by   his nickname `` The Gunslinger '' .
salesforce.com  Inc. is a global enterprise software company headquartered in San Francisco , California .
Though best known for its customer relationship management ( CRM  )  product , Salesforce has also expanded into the `` social enterprise arena '' through acquisitions .
It is  फिलहाल  ranked the most innovative company in America by Forbes magazine , as well as number 27 in Fortunes magazine 's 100 Best Companies to Work For in 2012 .
As of April 2013 , the company is ranked sixth in providing services in  विपणन और ग्राहक  service automation .
It is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is a  constituent of  the S & P 500 index .
Seahorse is the title given to 54 species of   marine fish in the genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos meaning ``   sea monster '' .
Earth is the third planet from the Sun , and the  densest और  fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System .
It is  भी  the largest of the Solar System 's four terrestrial planets .
It is sometimes referred to as the world or the  ब्लू ग्रह  .
Earth formed approximately 4.54 billion  सालो  ago , and life appeared on its surface within its first billion years .
Earth 's biosphere then significantly altered the atmospheric and other basic physical conditions  , which enabled the  proliferation of organisms as well as the formation of the ozone layer , which together with Earth 's magnetic field blocked harmful solar radiation , and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land .
The physical properties of the Earth , as well as its geological history and  कक्षा , have अनुमत  life to persist .
Estimates   on how much longer the planet will be able to continue to support life range from , to as long as .
Earth 's  स्थलमंडल  is divided into several rigid segments , or tectonic plates , that migrate across the surface over periods of many millions of years .
About 71 % of the surface is covered by salt water oceans , with the remainder   consisting of continents and islands which together have many lakes and other sources of water that contribute to the hydrosphere .
Earth 's poles are mostly covered with ice that is the solid ice of the Antarctic ice sheet and the sea ice that is  the ध्रुवीय बर्फ  packs .
The planet 's interior remains active , with a solid   iron inner core , a liquid outer core that generates the magnetic field , and a thick layer of relatively solid mantle .
Earth gravitationally interacts with other objects in  space ,  especially the Sun and the Moon .
During  एक कक्षा around  the Sun , the Earth rotates about its own axis 366.26 times , creating 365.26 solar days , or one sidereal year .
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4° away from the perpendicular of its orbital plane , producing seasonal variations on the  ग्रह 's सतह साथ  a period of one tropical year ( 365.24 solar days ) .
The  चंद्रमा  is Earth 's only natural satellite .
It began  orbiting  the Earth about .
The Moon 's gravitational interaction with Earth stimulates ocean tides , stabilizes the axial tilt , and gradually slows the  ग्रह  's rotation .
The planet is home to millions of species of  जीवन  , including humans .
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products of the biosphere contribute resources that are used  to support a  global human population .
These inhabitants are grouped into about 200 independent sovereign states  , which  interact through diplomacy , travel , trade , and military action .
Human cultures have developed many views of the planet , including its personification as a planetary deity , its shape as flat , its position as the center of the universe , and in the modern Gaia  principle , as a सिंगल , self-regulating  organism in its own right .
The Magician from the Waite-Smith tarot , who is depicted using the same tools that modern  wiccans  use .
In the neopagan religion  of  Wicca , a range of magical tools are used in ritual practice .
Each of these tools has  अलग उपयोग  and associations , and are used primarily to direct magical energies .
They  हैं  used at an altar , inside a magic circle .
In  परंपरागत gardnerian  Wicca , the tools are often divided into personal tools , which are for use by , and owned by , an individual Wiccan , and coven tools , used collectively by the coven .
This practice may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as the use of the Square and Compasses  ) , from  which Wicca draws some material , and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn .
The latter made  much उपयोग of सामग्री इससे  medieval grimoires such as the Key of Solomon , which has many illustrations of magical tools and instructions for their preparation .
Typical  eukaryotic  cell .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to  बदलें  biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
The  प्रतिक्रियाएँ शामिल  in respiration are catabolic reactions , which break large molecules into smaller ones , releasing energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products .
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains  उपयोगी  energy to fuel cellular activity .
Cellular respiration is  माना  an exothermic redox reaction .
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs  in the  body , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically , cellular respiration is a combustion  reaction , it clearly does not  resemble one when it occurs in a living cell .
This  अंतर  is because it occurs in many separate steps .
While the overall reaction is a  दहन प्रतिक्रिया , no सिंगल  reaction that comprises it is a combustion reaction .
Nutrients that are  commonly used by animal and  plant cells in respiration include sugar , amino acids and fatty acids , and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ) .
The  उर्जा भंडारित in एटीपी ( इसके तीसरा फास्फेट समूह is weakly बंधुआ to the बाकी of the अणु और is cheaply टूटा allowing stronger bonds to रूप , thereby transferring उर्जा लिये उपयोग by the कोशिका ) can तब be प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा , सहित जैवसंश्लेषण , locomotion or परिवहन of अणुओं आरपार कोशिका झिल्लियों .
A stored-pressure fire extinguisher made  by amerex
A British fire extinguisher   with ID sign , call point and fire action sign
A  आग extinguisher ,  flame extinguisher , or simply an extinguisher , is an active fire protection device used to extinguish or control small fires , often in emergency situations .
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire , such as one which has reached the ceiling , endangers the user ( i.e. , no escape route , smoke , explosion  hazard ,  etc . ) , or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department .
Typically , a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held cylindrical  दबाव पोत containing  an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire .
In the United States , fire extinguishers , in all buildings other than houses , are generally required to  be  serviced and inspected by a Fire Protection service company at least annually .
Some  jurisdictions  require more frequent service for fire extinguishers .
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the type of service performed (  सालाना निरीक्षण ,  recharge , new fire extinguisher ) and when .
There are two main types of  fire  extinguishers : stored pressure and cartridge-operated .
In stored pressure units , the expellant is stored in the same chamber as the  firefighting एजेंट itself  .
depending  on the agent used , different propellants are used .
With dry chemical extinguishers , nitrogen is typically  प्रयुक्त ;  water and foam extinguishers typically use air .
भंडारित  pressure fire extinguishers are the most common type .
Cartridge-operated extinguishers contain the expellant gas in a separate cartridge that is punctured  prior  to discharge , exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent .
This type is not as common , used primarily in areas such as industrial facilities , where they  प्राप्त higher-than-average  use .
They have the advantage of simple and prompt recharge , allowing an operator to discharge the extinguisher , recharge it , and return to  the  fire in a reasonable amount of time .
Unlike stored pressure types , these extinguishers use compressed carbon dioxide instead of nitrogen , although nitrogen  कारतूस  are used on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models .
Cartridge operated extinguishers are available in dry chemical and dry powder types in the U.S. and in water , wetting agent , foam , dry chemical ( classes ABC and B.C . ) , and dry powder  (  class D ) types in the rest of the world .
Fire extinguishers are further divided into handheld and cart-mounted , also called  wheeled  extinguishers .
Handheld extinguishers weigh from  0.5 to  14 kilograms ( 1 to 30 pounds ) , and are hence , easily portable by hand .
Cart-mounted units   typically weigh 23+ kilograms ( 50+ pounds ) .
These wheeled models are most commonly found at construction  साइट , विमानक्षेत्र  runways , heliports , as well as docks and marinas .
Native Americans in the United States are the indigenous peoples in North America  भीतर  the boundaries of the present-day continental United States , Alaska , and the island state of Hawaii .
They are composed of numerous , distinct Native American tribes and ethnic groups , many of which survive as  बरकरार राजनैतिक  communities .
The terms used to   refer to Native Americans have been controversial .
According to a 1995 U.S. Census Census_Bureau Bureau Census_Bureau set of home interviews , most of the respondents with an expressed preference refer to themselves as American Indians ( or simply Indians ) , and this term has been adopted by major newspapers and some academic groups ; however , this term does not typically include  देशी hawaiians or निश्चित अलास्कन natives  , such as Aleut , Yup'ik , or Inuit peoples .
Since the end of the 15th century , the migration of Europeans to the Americas , and their importation  of  Africans as slaves , has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment between Old and New World societies .
Europeans created most of the early written  ऐतिहासिक रिकार्ड परिचय  Native Americans after the colonists ' immigration to the Americas .
Many Native  अमेरिकी  lived as hunter-gatherer societies and told their histories by oral traditions .
In many groups , women carried out sophisticated  cultivation  of numerous varieties of staple crops : maize , beans and squash .
The indigenous cultures   were quite different from those of the agrarian , proto-industrial , mostly Christian immigrants from western Eurasia .
Many Native cultures were matrilineal ; the people  occupied lands  for use of the entire community , for hunting or agriculture .
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had developed concepts of individual property rights   with respect to land that were extremely different .
The differences in  संस्कृतियों between the स्थापित देशी अमेरिकी और अप्रवासी europeans , as खूब as shifting alliances among अलग राष्ट्र of प्रत्येक संस्कृति through the सदियां , caused extensive राजनैतिक टेंशन , जातीय हिंसा और सोशल disruption .
The Native Americans suffered high fatalities from the contact with  संक्रामक यूरेशियाई  diseases , to which they had no acquired immunity .
Epidemics after European contact caused the greatest  घाटा of जीवन लिये  indigenous populations .
Estimates of the pre-Columbian population of what today constitutes the U.S. vary significantly , ranging  इससे 1  million to 18 million .
After the colonies revolted  विरूद्ध  Great Britain and established the United States of America , President George Washington and Henry Knox conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens .
Assimilation ( whether  voluntary as साथ  the Choctaw , or forced ) became a consistent policy through American administrations .
During the  19th  century , the ideology of manifest destiny became integral to the American nationalist movement .
Expansion   of European-American populations to the west after the American Revolution resulted in increasing pressure on Native American lands , warfare between the groups , and rising tensions .
In 1830 , the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act , authorizing the government  to  relocate Native Americans from their homelands within established states to lands west of the Mississippi River , accommodating European-American expansion .
the  first European Americans to encounter the western interior tribes were generally fur traders and trappers .
There were also  जेसुइट प्रचारकों  active in the Northern Tier .
As United States expansion reached into the American West ,  settler and miner  migrants came into increasing conflict with the Great Basin , Great Plains , and other Western tribes .
These were  जटिल nomadic  cultures based on horse culture and seasonal bison hunting .
वे carried आउट दमदार प्रतिरोध to संयुक्त राज्य incursions in the दशकों बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध , in a श्रेणी of भारतीय युद्धों , जिससे यहूद बारंबार up जबतक the 1890s , लकिन जारी  into the 20th century .
The  transcontinental  railroad brought more non-Natives into tribal land in the west .
Over time , the U.S. forced a series of treaties and land cessions by   the tribes , and established reservations for them in many western states .
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits , but European-American agricultural technology of the time was inadequate for often dry  reservation  lands .
In 1924 ,  देशी अमेरिकी जो यहूद नहीं already u.S. नागरिकों यहूद granted नागरिकता by कॉंग्रेस .
Contemporary Native Americans have a unique relationship with the United States because they may be members of nations , tribes , or bands with  प्रभुता और सन्धि अधिकारों  .
सेंट्रल  America ( ) is the central geographic region of the Americas .
It  is the  southernmost , isthmian portion of the North American continent , which connects with South America on the southeast .
जब माना भाग of the एकीकृत महाद्वीपीय मॉडल , it is माना a उपमहाद्वीप .
Central America consists of seven countries : Belize  ,  Costa Rica , El Salvador , Guatemala , Honduras , Nicaragua , and Panama .
Central America is part of the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot , which extends from northern   Guatemala through central Panama .
It is bordered by Mexico to the north , the Caribbean Sea to the  ईस्ट  , the North Pacific Ocean to the west , and Colombia to the south-east .
Central America is an area of , or almost 0.1 % of  the  Earth 's surface .
As of   2009 , its population was estimated at 41,739,000 .
It has a density of 77 people  प्रति वर्गाकार  kilometer .
scrubs is  an American medical comedy-drama television series created by Bill Lawrence that aired from October 2 , 2001 to March 17 , 2010 on NBC and later ABC .
The series follows the lives of employees at the fictional Sacred Heart  शिक्षण  hospital .
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term  लिये a low-ranking व्यक्ति क्युकी  at the beginning of the series , most of the main characters were medical interns .
The series features   fast-paced screenplay , slapstick , and surreal vignettes presented mostly as the daydreams of the central character , Dr. John `` J.D . ''
Dorian ,  जो is  played by Zach Braff .
Actors starring alongside Braff in the first eight seasons included Sarah Chalke , Donald Faison , Neil  flynn , केन जेनकींस , जॉन C. mcginley  and Judy Reyes .
the  series has also featured multiple guest appearances by film actors , such as Brendan Fraser , Heather Graham , and Colin Farrell .
In the ninth season , many new cast members were introduced and the show setting moved from a hospital to a  चिकित्सा  school .
Out of the original cast , only Braff , Faison and  mcginley became नियमित डाल सदस्यों , जबकि the अन्य  with the exception of Reyes , made guest appearances .
Braff appeared in six episodes of the ninth season before  दूँ  .
Kerry Bishé , Eliza Coupe , Dave Franco and Michael Mosley became series regulars with Bishé  बनने  the show 's new narrator .
Scrubs premiered on October 2 ,  2001  on NBC .
the श्रेणी  received a Peabody Award in 2006 .
During the  सातवाँ  season , NBC announced that it would not renew the show .
Shortly after the seventh season finale , ABC  announced it had picked  up the eighth season of the series , which began January 6 , 2009 .
The ninth season premiered on December 1 ,  2009  .
On   May 14 , 2010 , ABC announced it had officially canceled Scrubs .
An  1817 boulton & वाट बीम झोंके इंजन , प्रयुक्त in netherton at the ironworks of m w grazebrook .
Re-erected on the A38 (  m  ) in Birmingham , UK
A steam engine is a heat engine that performs  mechanical कार्य using  steam as its working fluid .
Using boiling water to produce mechanical motion goes back  परिचय 2,000 सालो , लकिन जल्दी डिवाइस  were not practical .
Since the late 1700s steam engines have become a major source  of  mechanical power .
The first  अनुप्रयोग  were removing water from mines .
In 1781 James Watt patented a  भाप इंजन कि  produced continuous rotative motion .
These 10 hp engines enabled a wide  दायरा of निर्माण  machinery to be powered .
The  इंजन could be sited anywhere  that water and coal or wood fuel could be obtained .
By 1883 , engines that could provide  10,000  hp had become feasible .
Steam engines  could भी be लागू to वाहनों ऐसे as कर्षण इंजन और the रेल इंजनों जिससे हैं commonly बस पुकारा भाप इंजन बाहर अमेरिका .
The  stationary भाप इंजन थी a कुंजी घटक  of the Industrial Revolution , allowing factories to locate where water power was unavailable .
Today steam turbines  generate about  90 % of the electric power in the United States using a variety of heat sources .
Steam engines are external combustion engines , where the working  द्रव  is separate from the combustion products .
Non-combustion heat sources such as solar power , nuclear power or  geothermal  energy may be used .
The ideal thermodynamic cycle used to analyze this process  is  called the Rankine cycle .
In the  साईकिल  , water is heated into steam in a boiler until it reaches a high pressure .
When expanded through pistons or turbines ,  mechanical  work is done .
The reduced-pressure steam is then condensed and pumped back into  the बॉयलर  .
in सामान्य उपयोग , the पद भाप इंजन can refer to either the एकीकृत भाप पौधे ( सहित बायलरों इत्यादि . ) ऐसे as रेल भाप इंजनों और पोर्टेबल इंजन , or may refer to the पिस्टन or टर्बाइन मशीनरी अलोन , as in the बीम इंजन और stationary  steam engine .
Specialized  डिवाइस  such as steam hammers and steam pile drivers are dependent on steam supplied from a separate boiler .
A  मिल  engine from Stott Park Bobbin Mill , Cumbria , England
A steam locomotive in Germany .This class of engine was built in  1942  – 1950 and operated commercially until 1988 .
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version  titled  `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is the third official single from rapper Ludacris ' album Word of Mouf .
The single features Mystikal and   I-20 .
The single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 making it Ludacris 's first  top ten  hit on the chart , it also reached # 3 on Hot Rap Tracks and # 3 on Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks .
Puerto Rican reggaeton duo Maicol & Manuel  sampled the सोंग  on `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their 2002 release Yakaleo .
The song is  भी प्रदर्शित  in episode 2 , Series One of British teen comedy/drama Skins .
The song was also used by World Wrestling Entertainment  superstar montel  Vontavious Porter during his short stint in Ring of Honor .
It was also used for April Hunter in  विभिन्न  Independent circuits .
It was featured in the movie ATL starring T.I . , and  '  Hancock , ' although in the latter , the clean version was used .
A snippet of the song  is  played during traffic reports on many radio stations , usually carrying an urban/hip-hop format .
Retired NBA star and now ESPN analyst Jalen Rose  is  featured in the music video .
The song has been covered by rock band Start Trouble , on their album Every Solution Has Its  प्रॉब्लम  .
It was featured on British sitcom The Inbetweeners when the  वर्ण  Jay and Neil took Will on a 'pussy patrol ' in Jay 's red Nissan Micra .
It was sampled by Girl Talk on the first track of his  एल्बम  All Day , `` Oh No '' .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21  April  1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states , known as the Commonwealth realms , and their territories and dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
वो is परम् राज्यपाल of the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड और , in कुछ of उसके realms , carries the शीर्षक of defender of the आस्था as भाग of उसके पूरा शीर्षक .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New  जीलैंड  , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992 , the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and some realms became  republics  .
At present , in addition to the first four  aforementioned देशों , एलिज़ाबेथ  is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados , the Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign of years is currently the second longest for a British monarch ; only Queen  विक्टोरिया  has reigned longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth was born in London and  शिक्षित  privately at home .
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in  1936 on the abdication  of his brother Edward VIII , from which time she was the heir presumptive .
She began to undertake public duties  दौरान the दूसरी  World War , in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947 ,  वो  married Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , with whom she has four children : Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
Her coronation   service took place in 1953 and was the first to be televised .
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a state visit to the Republic of Ireland  and  reciprocal visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms , such as devolution in the United Kingdom and the patriation of  the कनाडाई  constitution .
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages  of उसके children , the births of उसके grandchildren  , the investiture of the Prince of Wales , and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver , Golden , and Diamond Jubilees in 1977 , 2002 , and 2012 , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern Ireland , the Falklands War , wars with Iraq and the War  in  Afghanistan .
वहीँ have महरूम टाइम्स  of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56 , the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle , Lord Mountbatten , the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ) , the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism  of  the royal family and republican sentiments , but support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high .
Christianity  is the  largest religion listed by Australians in the national census .
In the 2011 Census , 61.1 % of Australians  यहूद सूचीबद्ध  as Christian .
Australia has no official state religion and the Australian Constitution protects  स्वतंत्रता of धर्म  .
The presence of Christianity in Australia began  साथ the आगमन of  the First Fleet of British convicts in 1788 .
the धर्म grew to खाता लिये 96.1 % of the नेशनल जनसांख्यिकी at the समय of the संघ of ऑस्ट्रेलिया  in 1901 .
The  anglican गिरिजाघर  of Australia ( formerly known as the Church of England in Australia ) remained the largest denomination until 1986 , when it was surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia .
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among some sections of the population have diversified the  जनसांख्यिकी  of religion in Australia .
Of the roughly 61 % identifying  as Christian in  2011 , the largest denominations were either Roman Catholic ( 25 % ) or Anglican ( 17 % ) , with the third largest denomination being the 5 % affiliated with the Uniting Church in Australia .
Post-war immigration has  grown the संख्याएँ belonging to  churches like the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Australia and there are large and growing Pentecostal groups , such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church .
the त्यौहार of ईस्टर और क्रिसमस हैं पब्लिक छुट्टियाँ in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Around a quarter of students attend church schools  और  Christian organisations are leading non-government providers of health and welfare services through organisations like Catholic Health Australia , Anglicare , UnitingCare Australia , the Salvation Army and St Vincent de Paul Society .
Historically significant Australian Christians have included Rev Dr John Dunmore Lang , Saint Mary MacKillop , Catherine Helen Spence , Pastor David Unaipon , the  रेवरेंड जॉन flynn  and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls .
High  प्रोफ़ाइल समकालीन ऑस्ट्रेलियाई ईसाइयों शामिल : टिम कॉस्टेलो बैपटिस्ट मंत्री और वर्तमान सीईओ of संसार दृष्टि ऑस्ट्रेलिया , फ़्रैंक ब्रेनन , जेसुइट इंसान अधिकारों वकील , कार्डिनल जार्ज pell , कैथोलिक archbishop of सिडनी , फिलिप aspinall the वर्तमान anglican primate और archbishop of ब्रिसबेन , केविन रड , पूर्व मजदूर प्रधान मंत्री , और टोनी एबॉट , नेता लिये the संघीय विपक्ष उदार पार्टी .
Charter creating Collegiate School , which became Yale College  , अक्तूबर  9 , 1701
Yale University is a private Ivy League research university located in  नई  Haven , Connecticut .
Founded in 1701 in the Colony of Connecticut , the university is the third-oldest  संस्था of  higher education in the United States .
Originally chartered  as the `` कॉलेजिएट स्कूल '' , the  institution traces its roots to 17th-century clergymen who sought to establish a college to train clergy and political leaders for the colony .
In 1718 , the College was  renamed ``  Yale College '' to honor a gift from Elihu Yale , a governor of the British East India Company .
In 1861 , the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences became the first U.S. institution to award the PhD . Yale became a founding member of the Association of  अमरीकी विश्वविद्यालयों in 1900  .
yale कॉलेज थी रूपांतरित , शुरूआत in the 1930s , through the स्थापना of आवासीय कॉलेजों : 12 अभी मौजूद और दो अधिक हैं नियोजित .
Yale employs over 1,100 faculty to teach  और सलाह परिचय 5,300 undergraduate  and 6,100 graduate and professional students .
Almost all tenured professors teach undergraduate courses , more than  2,000 of जिससे  are offered annually .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों  's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion , the second-largest of any academic institution in the world .
yale 's प्रणाली  of more than two dozen libraries holds 12.5 million volumes .
49 Nobel Laureates  have  been affiliated with the University as students , faculty , and staff .
Yale has produced many  notable alumni  , including five U.S. Presidents , 19 U.S. Supreme Court Justices , and several foreign heads of state .
At the graduate level ,  yale विधि स्कूल  , Yale School of Art , and Yale School of Drama are consistently ranked the top programs in their field .
Yale Law School is the most  selective  law school in the United States .
Yale students  compete  intercollegiately as the Yale Bulldogs in the NCAA Division I Ivy League .
The oldest intercollegiate athletic  इवेंट in the संयुक्त  States is the Yale-Harvard regatta .
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub from the family Asteraceae , which grows in arid and semi-arid conditions ,  throughout a range of cold  desert , steppe , and mountain habitats in the Intermountain West of North America .
The vernacular name `` sagebrush '' is also used for several related members of the genus Artemisia , such as California Sagebrush ( Artemisia   californica ) .
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia  species are  the dominant plants across large portions of the Great Basin , covering some 422,000 square miles in 11 western U.S. & Canadian states .
It is the  राज्य पुष्प  of Nevada .
Sagebrush provides food and habitat for a variety of species , such as sage grouse  , pronghorn antelope  , gray vireo , pygmy rabbit , and mule deer .
Big  sagebrush थी प्रयुक्त as an हर्बल आयुर्विज्ञान by देशी  Americans throughout the Intermountain West of North America—especially for preventing infection in wounds , stopping internal bleeding , and treating headaches and colds .
chemically , the क्रियाशील  medicinal constituents include camphor , terpenoids , and tannins .
Several major threats exist to sage brush ecosystems , including human settlements , conversion to agricultural land , livestock grazing ,  हृदयरोग संयंत्र  species , wildfires , and climate change .
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email  सेवा  offered by the American search engine company Yahoo !
It was  शुभारम्भ in  1997 , and , according to comScore , Yahoo ! Mail is the third-largest web-based email service with 281 million users as of December 2012 .
फिलहाल  , Yahoo ! offers three versions of Yahoo ! Mail .
The traditional `` Yahoo ! Mail Classic '' continues the  उपलब्धता of  the original interface introduced in 1997 .
A version introduced in 2005 included a new Ajax interface , drag-and-drop features , improved search  कार्यक्षमता  , keyboard shortcuts , address auto-complete , tabs , and other updated features .
In October 2010 , Yahoo ! released a beta version of Yahoo ! Mail , which included improvements to the design  ,  performance , search functionality , and Facebook integration .
In May 2011 , beta  परीक्षण लिये the  new version stopped , and it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail .
in जल्दी  2008 , Yahoo ! began offering unlimited mail storage to its users in response to heated competition in the free web-mail market segment .
On June 27 , 2009  , याहू  ! Messenger was integrated with Yahoo ! Mail .
Tacoma ( , ) is a mid-sized urban port city and the  काउंटी  seat of Pierce County , Washington , United States .
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound , southwest of Seattle , northeast  of  the state capital , Olympia , and northwest of Mount Rainier National Park .
The population was  198,397  , according to the 2010 census .
Tacoma is the second-largest  city  in the Puget Sound area and the third largest in the state .
टकोमा भी serves as the बीच of कारोबार कार्यकलाप लिये the दक्षिण ध्वनि प्रदेश , जिससे रै a जनसांख्यिकी of around 1 लाख  people .
Tacoma adopted its name after the nearby Mount Rainier , originally called  माउंट  Tahoma .
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the western  टर्मिनस of the  Northern Pacific Railroad in the late 19th century .
The decision  of  the railroad was influenced by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water harbor , Commencement Bay .
By connecting the bay with the  रेलरोड टकोमा 's motto  became `` When rails meet sails . ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of Tacoma , a center of international  व्यापार on  the Pacific Coast and Washington state 's largest port .
Like most central cities , Tacoma suffered a prolonged decline in the mid-20th century as a result of  suburbanization  and divestment .
Since the 1990s , developments in the downtown core include the University of Washington Tacoma ; Tacoma Link , the first modern electric light rail service in the state ; the state 's highest density of art and   history museums ; and a restored urban waterfront , the Thea Foss Waterway .
With a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad workers of the 19th century  , to the  longshoremen of the 20th century , to the Labor Ready workers of today — Tacoma has long been known for its rough , gritty image .
A song about Tacoma , `` Thrice All American '' , by American singer-songwriter and former resident Neko Case , describes it as `` a dusty old   jewel in the South Puget Sound / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down '' .
Tacoma-Pierce County has been named one of the most livable  क्षेत्रों  in the country .
Tacoma was also recently listed as the 19th  सबसे walkable  city in the country .
In contrast , the city is also ranked as the most  stressed-out  city in the country in a 2004 survey .
In 2006 , women 's magazine Self named Tacoma the `` Most Sexually Healthy City '' in   the United States .
In 2012 , The  Advocate gave  Tacoma the title of `` Gayest City in America '' , in part because of the large diversity of public offices held , and Washington State passing a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry .
Tacoma is famous for the 1940  पतन  of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge .
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest city in the San Diego metropolitan area , the seventh largest city in Southern California , the fourteenth largest city in the State  of  California , and the 77th-largest city in the United States .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 243,916 as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी .
Located just from downtown San Diego and from the Mexican border in the South Bay region of the metropolitan area , the city is at the center of one  of the richest आर्थिक और culturally  diverse zones in the United States .
Chula Vista is  so named  because of its scenic location between the San Diego Bay and coastal mountain foothills .
Founded in the early  19th  century , fast population growth has recently been observed in the city .
As the second largest city  in सैन  Diego County , Chula Vista has quickly become a destination popular to many tourists .
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round  United States  Olympic Training centers and popular tourist destinations include Cricket Wireless Amphitheater , the Chula Vista marina , and the Chula Vista Nature Center .
Metes and bounds is a system or method   of describing land , real property ( in contrast to personal property ) or real estate .
The system has been used in England for many centuries , and is still used there in the definition of general  सीमाएँ  .
By custom , it was applied in  the असली तेरह colonies  that became the United States , and in many other land jurisdictions based on English common law .
typically the प्रणाली उपयोग शारीरिक सुविधाएँ of the लोकल भूगोल , साथ साथ दिशानिर्देश और दूरियाँ , to define और describe the सीमाएँ of a पार्सल of जमीन .
The boundaries  हैं वर्णित in a कार्यशील गद्य  style , working around the parcel in sequence , from a point of beginning , returning back to the same point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds .
It may include references to other adjoining  parcels (  and their owners ) , and it , in turn , could also be referred to in later surveys .
At the time the description is compiled , it may have been marked on the ground with  स्थाई स्मारक लगाई  where there were no suitable natural monuments .
The term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the measurement of each straight run , specified by a distance between  the  terminal points , and an orientation or direction .
A direction may be a simple  कम्पास  bearing , or a precise orientation determined by accurate survey methods .
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary description , such as along   a certain watercourse , a stone wall , an adjoining public road way , or an existing building .
The system is often used to define larger pieces of property ( e.g . farms ) , and political subdivisions ( e.g . town boundaries ) where precise definition is not required  or would be far too expensive , or previously designated boundaries  can be incorporated into the description .
Sir Isaac Newton ( 25 December 164220 March 1727 )  थी an अंग्रेज़ी physicist और  mathematician who is widely regarded as one of the most influential scientists of all time and as a key figure in the scientific revolution .
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy '' ) , first published in 1687 , laid the foundations for most of classical   mechanics .
न्यूटन  also made seminal contributions to optics and shares credit with Gottfried Leibniz for the invention of the infinitesimal calculus .
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation that dominated scientists ' view of the  शारीरिक  universe for the next three centuries .
It also demonstrated that  the  motion of objects on the Earth and that of celestial bodies could be described by the same principles .
By deriving Kepler 's laws of planetary motion from his mathematical description of gravity , Newton removed the last doubts about the validity of the  heliocentric  model of the cosmos .
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope and developed a theory of colour based on the observation that a prism decomposes white light into the many colours of   the visible spectrum .
He also formulated an empirical law of  कूलिंग  and studied the speed of sound .
In addition to his work on the calculus , as a mathematician Newton contributed to the study of power series , generalised the binomial theorem to non-integer exponents , and developed Newton 's  विधि लिये approximating  the roots of a function .
Newton was a fellow of   Trinity College and the second Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge .
He was a devout but unorthodox Christian and , unusually for a member of the  कैम्ब्रिज संकाय  , he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England , perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism .
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences , Newton also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy and biblical chronology , but most of his work in those areas remained unpublished until long  बाद उसके मौत  .
In  his  later life , Newton became president of the Royal Society .
He also served the British   government as Warden and Master of the Royal Mint .
Prof. Walter Lewin   explains Newton 's law of gravitation in MIT course 8.01
Satellites   and projectiles all obey Newton 's law of gravitation
Newton  's law of  universal gravitation states that every point mass in the universe attracts every other point mass with a force that is directly proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them .
( Separately it was shown that large spherically symmetrical masses attract and are attracted as if all their mass were  concentrated at उनके  centers . )
This is a general physical law derived from   empirical observations by what Newton called induction .
It is a part of classical mechanics and was formulated in Newton  's  work Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ) , first published on 5 July 1687 .
( When Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the Royal Society , Robert Hooke made a claim that Newton had obtained the inverse square  विधि इससे उसे – देखिए इतिहास खण्ड नीचे .  )
In modern language ,  the  law states the following:
Assuming SI units , F is measured in newtons ( N ) , m1 and m2 in kilograms ( kg ) , r in meters ( m ) , and the  constant G  is approximately equal to .
The value of the constant G was first accurately determined from the results of the Cavendish experiment conducted by the British scientist Henry Cavendish in 1798 , although Cavendish did not himself calculate  a numerical  value for G .
This experiment was  भी the  first test of Newton 's theory of gravitation between masses in the laboratory .
It took place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia and 71  सालो बाद न्यूटन 's मौत , so  none of Newton 's calculations could use the value of G ; instead he could only calculate a force relative to another force .
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles  Coulomb 's law of  electrical forces , which is used to calculate the magnitude of electrical force between two charged bodies .
Both are inverse-square laws   , in which force is inversely proportional to the square of the distance between the bodies .
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product of the masses , and the electrostatic  निरंतर in प्लेस  of the gravitational constant .
Newton 's law has since been superseded by Einstein 's theory of general relativity , but it continues to be  used as  an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity .
Relativity is required only when there is a  need लिये  extreme precision , or when dealing with gravitation for extremely massive and dense objects .
White and red flags , representing Iraqi and American deaths , sit in the grass quadrangle of The Valley Library on the Corvallis , Oregon , campus of Oregon State  विश्वविद्यालयों  .
as भाग of the traveling  Iraq Body Count exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( not related to Iraq Body Count project ) , the flags aim to `` raise awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War . ''
( May  2008  )
Casualties of the conflict in Iraq since 2003 ( beginning with the 2003 invasion of Iraq , and continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq , as  खूब as the  activities of the various armed groups operating in the country ) have come in many forms , and the accuracy of the information available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly .
the तालिका नीचे summarizes विभिन्न estimates of the इराकी casualty आंकड़े  .
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational coalition , the death toll is carefully tracked and updated daily , and the names and photographs of those killed  in  action as well as in accidents have been published widely .
A total of 4,486 U.S. soldiers were killed in   Iraq between 2003 and 2012 .
regarding the इराकी  , however , information on both military and civilian casualties is both less precise and less consistent .
Estimates of casualty levels are available from reporters on the scene , from officials of involved organizations , and from groups that summarize information  on incidents  reported in the news media .
The word `` casualties `` in its most general sense includes the injured as  खूब as  the dead .
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely , partly because it is not obvious what should be counted : should only those injuries serious  enough to put  a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do illnesses or injuries caused by accidents count , or should the focus be restricted to wounds caused by  शत्रु सगाई  ?
Sources using  अलग परिभाषाएं may arrive  at very different numbers , and sometimes the precise definition is not clearly specified .
Asalto al coche (  डकैती of the  coach ) , by Francisco de Goya
A  highwayman थी a चोर और brigand जो preyed on travellers .
This type of outlaw usually travelled and robbed by horse , as compared to a footpad who travelled and  robbed on  foot .
Mounted robbers were widely considered  to be socially  superior to footpads .
Such robbers operated in Great Britain and Ireland from the Elizabethan era until the  जल्दी  19th century .
The word highwayman is first  ज्ञात  to be used in the year 1617 ; other euphemisms included `` knights of the road '' and `` gentlemen of the road . ''
Two terms applied to 19th-century North American highwaymen were road agents in some instances for mountain bandits while in other cases the term is  rlallaala लिये mountain-based  ruffians .
In the same time period in Australia , they were known  as bushrangers  .
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson , Jr. ( born August 14 , 1959 ) is a retired American professional basketball player who  निभाई पाइंट  guard for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) .
बाद  winning championships in high school and college , Johnson was selected first overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers .
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most Valuable Player Award in his rookie season ,  और जीती चार अधिक championships  with the Lakers during the 1980s .
Johnson retired  abruptly  in 1991 after announcing that he had contracted HIV , but returned to play in the 1992 All-Star Game , winning the All-Star MVP Award .
After protests from his  fellow खिलाड़ी  , he retired again for four years , but returned in 1996 , at age 36 , to play 32 games for the Lakers before retiring for the third and final time .
Johnson 's career achievements include three NBA MVP Awards , nine NBA Finals appearances , twelve All-Star games , and ten All-NBA First and  दूसरी टोली nominations .
He led the league in   regular-season assists four times , and is the NBA 's all-time leader in average assists per game , at 11.2 .
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream  टोली `` ,  the U.S. basketball team that won the Olympic gold medal in 1992 .
बाद leaving the एनबीए in 1992 , जॉनसन formed the जादू जॉनसन all-stars , a barnstorming टोली कि travelled around  the world playing exhibition games .
Johnson  थी सम्मानित as एक of the 50 महानतम खिलाड़ी in एनबीए इतिहास in 1996 , और enshrined in the बास्केट हॉल of कीर्ति in 2002 .
He was rated the greatest NBA point guard of all  time  by ESPN in 2007 .
His friendship and rivalry with Boston Celtics star Larry Bird ,  जिसको he  faced in the 1979 NCAA finals and three NBA championship series , were well documented .
Since his retirement , Johnson has been an advocate for HIV/ AIDS prevention and  सुरक्षित sex , as खूब  as an entrepreneur , philanthropist , broadcaster and motivational speaker .
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for   several years , and was part of a group that purchased the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2012 .
Allium cells in different phases   of the cell cycle
The cells of eukaryotes ( left ) and prokaryotes (  सही  )
The cell is the basic structural , functional and  biological  unit of all known living organisms .
It is the smallest unit of life that is classified as a living thing ( except virus , which consists only from DNA/RNA  covered by प्रोटीन और lipids ) , और is प्रायः पुकारा the  building block of life .
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a membrane , which contains many biomolecules such as  प्रोटीन  and nucleic acids .
जीवों can be वर्गीकृत as एककोशिकीय ( consisting of a सिंगल कोशिका ; सहित सबसे जीवाणु ) or बहुकोशिकीय ( सहित पौधे  and animals ) .
While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to  प्रजाति , इंसानो  contain about 100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells .
Most plant and animal cells are between 1 and 100 micrometres and therefore are visible only  अंतर्गत the सूक्ष्मदर्शी  .
The cell was  खोजा  by Robert Hooke in 1665 .
The cell theory , first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann , states that all organisms are composed of one or more cells , that all cells come from preexisting cells , that vital functions of an organism occur within cells , and that all cells contain the hereditary information necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information  to the  next generation of cells .
कोशिकाएं उभरा on ग्रह धरती at तनिक 4.0–4.3 अरब सालो पहले .
The word  cell  comes from the Latin cella , meaning `` small room '' .
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological structure was coined by Robert Hooke in a book he published in 1665  जब  he compared the cork cells he saw through his microscope to the small rooms monks lived in .
Grecian Formula is a men 's hair coloring product in the   United States .
Canada and Europe previously banned the  उत्पाद  because of its use of lead acetate .
A motor scooter 's front with an impractical number and variety of headlamps ,  added  for decorative purposes
A headlamp is  a बल्ब संलग्न  to the front of a vehicle to light the road ahead .
Headlamp performance has steadily improved throughout the automobile age , spurred by the great disparity between daytime and  nighttime ट्रैफ़िक fatalities : the u.S.  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark , despite only 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness .
While it is common for  the term headlight to be  used interchangeably in informal discussion , headlamp is the term for the device itself , while headlight properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device .
Other vehicles , such as trains and  वायुयान  , are required to have headlamps .
Bicycle headlamps are often used on bicycles , and are required in some  jurisdictions  .
They can be powered by a battery or  a  small electrical generator on the wheel .
additionally  automotive night vision systems work to supplement headlamps .
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements claimed for women and girls   of many societies worldwide .
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law , local custom , and behaviour , whereas  in others they  may be ignored or suppressed .
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and traditional bias  विरूद्ध the कसरत of अधिकारों by महिलाओं  and girls in favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include , though are not limited to , the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair wages or equal pay ; to own  property ; to education  ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( , ( born November 13 , 1955 ) is an American comedienne , actress , singer-songwriter ,  राजनैतिक activist  , author and talk show host .
Goldberg   made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ) , playing Celie , a mistreated black woman in the Deep South .
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress and won her first Golden Globe  Award for her role  in the film .
In 1990 , she played Oda Mae Brown , a wacky psychic  helping a slain man ( पैट्रिक  Swayze ) save his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won her a second Golden  Globe and an  Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films include  Sister Act  and Sister Act 2 , The Player , Made in America , How Stella Got Her Groove Back , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation , as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash , and as Carmen Tibideaux  in Glee , as well  as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King .
Goldberg has been  मनोनीत लिये  13 Emmy Awards for her work in television .
She was co-producer of the popular game show  हॉलीवुड वर्गों  from 1998 to 2004 .
She has been the moderator of the daytime talk show The View since   2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two Daytime Emmys , two  Golden Globes , a  Tony ( for production , not acting ) , and an Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award , four People 's Choice Awards , and has been honored with a  star  on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is  एक  of the few entertainers who have won an Emmy , Grammy , Oscar , and Tony Award .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised  member clubs , of which  seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in  New York City , the NHL is  widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey league in the world , and one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada .
The Stanley Cup , the oldest professional sports trophy in North America , is awarded annually to the league  playoff  champion at the end of each season .
The league was organized on November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal , Quebec , Canada , after the suspension of operations of its  predecessor organization  , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started with four teams and , through a series of expansions , contractions , and relocations , the league is now  रचित  of 30 active franchises .
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada , although the league has now been binational  since 1924 when it  expanded into the United States .
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season , the league  resumed play  under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms  of  sponsorships , attendance , and television audiences .
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over  the  world and currently has players from about 20 different countries .
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL , over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six  to तीस क्लब  since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
maggots feeding on carrion .
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( order  diptera ) ; it is  applied in particular to the larvae of Brachyceran flies , such as houseflies , cheese flies , and blowflies , rather than larvae of the Nematocera , such as mosquitoes and Crane flies .
`` Maggot  '' is नहीं a तकनीकी पद और चाहिए नहीं  be taken as such ; in many standard textbooks of entomology it does not appear in the index at all .
In many  non-technical ग्रन्थ the पद is प्रयुक्त लिये कीट लार्वे in सामान्य .
अन्य  sources have coined their own definitions ; for example : `` ...
The term applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared ... '' and `` ... Applied to the footless  लार्वे  of Dipters . ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of wide importance in ecology and medicine ; among other roles , various species are prominent in recycling carrion and garbage , attacking   crops and foodstuffs , spreading microbial infections , and causing myiasis .
Herod ( , Hordos , Greek : , Hērōdēs ) , also   known as Herod the Great ( 73/74 BCE – 4 BCE in Jericho ) , was a Roman client king of Judea .
उसके epithet of `` the ग्रेट '' is widely विवादित as he is वर्णित as `` a madman जो murdered उसके अपना परिवार और a ग्रेट अनेक rabbis  `` .
He is also known for his colossal building projects in Jerusalem and elsewhere , including his expansion of the Second Temple in Jerusalem ( sometimes referred  to as हेरोदेस 's टेम्पल ) और the  construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima .
Important details of his biography are gleaned from the works of the 1st century CE Roman–Jewish historian Josephus  flavius  .
The Romans made Herod 's son ,  हेरोदेस archelaus , ethnarch of judea  , Samaria , and Idumea ( biblical Edom ) from 4 BCE to 6 CE , referred to as the tetrarchy of Judea .
Archelaus was judged incompetent by the Roman emperor Augustus who then combined Samaria , Judea proper and  idumea into iudaea प्रांत  under rule of a prefect until age 41 .
Herod 's other son Herod Antipas was tetrarch of Galilee   from 4 BCE–39 CE .
ABO blood group antigens present on red blood cells and IgM antibodies  उपस्थित  in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most important blood  type  system ( or blood group system ) in human blood transfusion .
The associated anti-A and anti-B antibodies are usually IgM antibodies , which are usually produced in the first years of life by  sensitization  to environmental substances such as food , bacteria , and viruses .
ABO blood types are also present in some other animals , for example apes such as chimpanzees  , bonobos , और  gorillas .
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a common year starting on  मंगलवार ( कड़ी होगा  display the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar .
Northville is an affluent city located in and  विभाजित by ओकलैंड और वेन काउंटी  in the U.S. state of Michigan .
The area is a suburb of Metropolitan   Detroit .
The population was 5,970 at the  2010  census .
Most of the city is in Oakland County , and is  घिरी  by the city of Novi .
The Wayne County   portion is surrounded by Northville Township .
northville is परोसा by northville पब्लिक स्कूलों  .
The city is located northeast of  ऐन  Arbor and northwest of Detroit .
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2 , 1925 ) is an American  अभिनेत्री  and vocalist .
She has appeared in numerous stage plays and musicals , feature films , and  अनेक टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम  .
वो is ज्ञात लिये उसके प्रदर्शन of `` the  Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical Company , her 2001 one-woman show , Elaine Stritch at Liberty , and recently for her role as Jack Donaghy 's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock .
She has  महरूम  nominated for the Tony Award five times in various categories .
Stritch is also a three-time   Emmy Award winner .
Misfits is a British science fiction  comedy-drama टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ परिचय  a group of young offenders sentenced to work in a community service programme , where they obtain supernatural powers after a strange electrical storm .
The series opened in 2009 and  is फिलहाल  ongoing .
Antonia Thomas , Iwan Rheon  , Lauren Socha , Nathan Stewart-Jarrett ,  and Robert Sheehan are introduced as Alisha Daniels , Simon Bellamy , Kelly Bailey , Curtis Donovan , and Nathan Young respectively .
Sheehan left after the second series , replaced in the third by Joseph  Gilgun  as Rudy Wade .
After the fourth series was announced Rheon , Thomas and Socha had left their roles and would be replaced by new characters Karla Crome , Nathan  mcmullen और मैट  Stokoe , as Jess , Finn and Alex respectively .
Midway through the fourth series , Stewart-Jarrett left while Natasha  o'keeffe  joined the cast as Abbey Smith .
On 19 March 2013 , Channel 4 announced at a press event that they have renewed Misfits for a fifth  और  final series containing 8 episodes .
ब्रेट lorenzo favre ( born अक्तूबर 10 , 1969 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक जो खर्च the बहुमत of उसके करियर साथ the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL , having played quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons  ( 1991 )  , Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ) , New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over 6,000  completions ,  and over 10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern  मिसिसिपी  for four years before being selected in the second round of the 1991 NFL Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ) .
He was traded to Green Bay on  फ़रवरी 10  , 1992 , for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft .
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season , stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007  ऋतु .
He was traded  to the नई यॉर्क jets और प्रारंभ at क्वार्टरबैक लिये the 2008 ऋतु पहले हस्ताक्षर साथ the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18 , 2009 as उनके starting क्वार्टरबैक .
He made an NFL record 297 consecutive  starts ( 321  including playoffs ) .
He is the only player to win the AP Most Valuable  खिलाड़ी तीन  consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , five NFC Championship Games ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 )  , and two  Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including most career touchdown passes , most career passing yards , most career pass completions , most career pass attempts , most career  interceptions thrown , सबसे लगातार starts  by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
He is also referred to by  उसके  nickname `` The Gunslinger '' .
The following is a list of notable  वायुयान hijackings  around the world .
The  संसार  Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly known as the web ) , is a system of interlinked hypertext documents accessed via the Internet .
With a web browser  , एक  can view web pages that may contain text , images , videos , and other multimedia , and navigate between them via hyperlinks .
Using concepts from his earlier  hypertext systems like  ENQUIRE , British engineer , computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN , Sir Tim Berners-Lee , now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and Belgian  कंप्यूटर वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट cailliau  proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '' , and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year .
वेन lyman मोर्स ( अक्तूबर 20 , 1900july 22 , 1974 ) थी a राजनेता और attorney इससे ऑरेगॉन , संयुक्त राज्य , ज्ञात लिये उसके proclivity लिये opposing उसके पार्टियों ' नेतृत्व , और specifically लिये उसके विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध on संवैधानिक grounds  .
born in मैडिसन , विस्कॉन्सिन , और शिक्षित at the विश्वविद्यालयों of wisconsin-madison और the विश्वविद्यालयों of मिनेसोटा विधि स्कूल , मोर्स स्थानांतरित to ऑरेगॉन in 1930 और began शिक्षण at the विश्वविद्यालयों of ऑरेगॉन स्कूल of विधि  .
During World War II he was elected to the United States Senate as a Republican ;  he became  an Independent after Dwight D. Eisenhower 's election to the presidency in 1952 .
While an independent , he set a record for performing the second  longest one-person  filibuster in the history of the Senate .
Morse  joined  the Democratic Party in 1955 , and was reelected twice while a member of that party .
मोर्स बना  a brief run for the Democratic Party 's presidential nomination in 1960 .
A few years later , Morse was one of only two Senators who opposed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution , which authorized the president to take military  कार्रवाई  in Vietnam without a declaration of war .
He continued to speak out against the war in the  ensuing years , and lost his 1968 bid for  reelection to Bob Packwood , who criticized his strong opposition to the war .
Morse made two more bids for reelection to  the Senate  before his death in 1974 .
In   parliamentary procedure , a motion to table has two different and contradictory meanings:
In the United States , to table usually means the to lay [ the topic ] on the table or to move for   postponement of consideration ; a proposal to suspend consideration of a pending motion .
Much less often , it means a motion to `` put on the table '' : a proposal to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) , a usage consistent with the rest of the  english-speaking  world .
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom , to table means to move to place [ the topic ] upon the table ( or to move to place on the table ) : a  प्रस्ताव  to begin consideration ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal .
Both the American and the British dialects have the sense of `` to table '' as  to lay [ the  topic ] on the table or to cause [ the topic ] to lie on the table .
The difference is the idea of what the table is for , that of a  शेल्फ बंद  to the side , or an active work bench .
The British meaning has the sense of the  तालिका as  being an active work bench , with the topic being the center of attention , considered and discussed by all until it can be resolved , at which point it is taken off the 'table ' .
The American sense is that the table is like that of a shelf , archive , or long-term storage device , where the topic  has been disposed of by sending it to the  'table ' and leaving it there .
Toy Story 3 is a 2010 American 3D computer animated  comedy-drama  prison film , and the third installment in the Toy Story series .
It was produced by   Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
Directed by Lee Unkrich , the film was released worldwide from June through October in Disney  Digital 3-D ,  RealD , and IMAX 3D .
Toy Story 3 was also the first film to be released  theatrically साथ dolby घेर 7.1  sound .
The screenplay was written by Michael Arndt , while Unkrich wrote  the story along with  John Lasseter and Andrew Stanton , respectively director and co-writer of the two first films .
The plot focuses on the toys Woody , Buzz Lightyear , and their friends dealing with an  अनिश्चित भविष्य as उनके मालिक  , Andy , prepares to leave for college .
Actors Tom Hanks , Tim Allen , Joan Cusack , Don Rickles , Estelle Harris , John Ratzenberger , Wallace Shawn , Jeff Pidgeon , Jodi Benson , R. Lee Ermey , John Morris , and Laurie Metcalf reprised their voice-over roles  इससे the पिछला  films .
Jim Varney  , जो निभाई slinky श्वान in  the first two films , and Joe Ranft , who portrayed Lenny and Wheezy , both died before production began on Toy Story 3 .
The role of Slinky Dog was taken over by Blake Clark ( a friend of Varney ) , while Ranft 's characters and various others were  written  out of the story .
New characters include  प्रदर्शन by ned beatty  , Timothy Dalton , Kristen Schaal , Bonnie Hunt , Whoopi Goldberg , Jeff Garlin , Richard Kind , and Michael Keaton .
The feature broke Shrek the Thirds  रिकार्ड as the biggest खोलने  day North American gross for an animated film unadjusted for inflation , and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189 .
It  is भी the highest-grossing खोलने वीकेंड लिये a पिक्चर्स फिल्मी , as खूब as the highest-grossing खोलने वीकेंड लिये a फिल्मी to have खोली in the माह of जून .
This is the highest-grossing film of 2010 , both in the   United States and Canada , and worldwide .
In early August , it became Pixar   's highest-grossing film at the North American box office ( surpassing Finding Nemo ) , and the highest-grossing animated film of all time worldwide ( surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; later that month , Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide .
It is currently the 10th-highest-grossing film  of सब समय  .
Toy Story 3 was nominated for five Academy Awards , including Best Picture  , Best Adapted  Screenplay , and Best Sound Editing .
It was the third  एनिमेटेड  film ( after Beauty and the Beast and Up ) to be nominated for Academy Award for Best Picture .
It won the awards for Best Animated  विशेषता और बेहतरीन  Original Song .
John Levell Starks ( born August  10 , 1965 ) is an अमरीकी  retired professional basketball shooting guard .
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and 190  पाउंड  during his NBA playing career .
Although he was not drafted in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending four colleges  in his  native Oklahoma , including Oklahoma State University , he gained fame while playing for the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices , such as mobile phones , digital cameras , GPS  नेविगेशन डिवाइस , और टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर  .
The Secure Digital standard  is  maintained by the SD Card Association ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens of product categories and more   than 8,000 models .
The Secure Digital format includes four card families available in three different  रूप कारकों  .
The four families are  the original  Standard-Capacity ( SDSC ) , the High-Capacity ( SDHC ) , the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ) , and the SDIO , which combines input/output functions with data storage .
The three form factors are the original size , the `` mini '' size , and the `` micro ''  आकार ( देखिए उदाहरण  ) .
वहीँ  are many combinations of form factors and device families .
Electrically  passive adapters allow the  use of a smaller card in a host device built to hold a larger card .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards , but this   article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may  प्रस्ताव वृहद  capacity than the host device can handle .
a नए कार्ड may उपयोग a संचिका प्रणाली the मेजबान यंत्र can नहीं navigate .
उपयोग of an sdio कार्ड requires the मेजबान यंत्र be designed लिये the input/output कृत्यों the कार्ड provides  .
The organization of  the कार्ड  was changed starting with the SDHC family .
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1 GB before the SDA  था  standardized a method of doing so .
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its specifications and assure users of  संगतता  .
Hugh John Mungo Grant ( born 9  सितंबर  1960 ) is a British actor and film producer .
He has received a Golden Globe , a  bafta ,  and an Honorary César .
His   films have earned more than US $ 2.4 billion from 25 theatrical releases worldwide .
Grant achieved international  स्टारडम बाद appearing  in Richard Curtis 's successful Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ) .
He used this breakthrough role as a frequent cinematic persona during the 1990s , delivering comic performances in mainstream films like Mickey  ब्लू आँखें  ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ) .
By the turn of the 21st century , he had established himself as a leading man skilled with a satirical comic talent   .
Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ) ,  परिचय  A Boy ( 2002 ) , Love Actually ( 2003 ) , and American Dreamz ( 2006 ) .
He later played against type with multiple cameo roles in the epic drama film  बादल  Atlas ( 2012 ) .
Within the film industry , Grant is cited as an anti-film  स्टार  who approaches his roles like a character actor , and attempts to make his acting appear spontaneous .
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant touch of irony / sarcasm and studied physical   mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions .
The entertainment media 's coverage of Grant  's जीवन  off the big screen has often overshadowed his work as a thespian .
He has been vocal about his disrespect for the profession of acting , and in his disdain towards the culture of celebrity and hostility  towards  the media .
In a career spanning 30 years , Grant has repeatedly claimed that acting is not a true  कॉलिंग  but just a job he fell into .
The Han Dynasty ( ; ) (   206 BC – 220 AD ) was an imperial dynasty of China , preceded by the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ) .
It was founded by the rebel leader Liu Bang , known  मरणोपरांत as सम्राट  Gaozu of Han .
It was briefly interrupted by the Xin Dynasty   ( 9–23 AD ) of the former regent Wang Mang .
This interregnum separates the Han into two periods : the Western Han ( 206 BC – 9 AD ) and Eastern Han  ( 25–220 AD  ) .
Spanning over four  सदियां  , the period of the Han Dynasty is considered a golden age in Chinese history .
To this day , China 's  बहुमत जातीय समूह refers  to itself as the `` Han people '' and the Chinese script is referred to as `` Han characters `` .
The Han Empire was divided into areas directly controlled by the central government , known as  commanderies , और a क्रमांक  of semi-autonomous kingdoms .
These kingdoms gradually lost all vestiges of their independence , particularly  following the विद्रोह  of the Seven States .
The Xiongnu , a nomadic confederation  which  dominated the eastern Eurasian Steppe , defeated the Han army in battle in 200 BC .
Following the defeat , a political marriage alliance was negotiated in which the  हान became the  de facto inferior partner .
When , despite  the  treaty , the Xiongnu continued to raid Han borders , Emperor Wu of Han ( r. 141–87 BC ) launched several military campaigns against them .
The  परम  Han victory in these wars eventually forced the Xiongnu to accept vassal status as Han tributaries .
These campaigns  expanded Han sovereignty into the Tarim  Basin of Central Asia and helped establish the vast trade network known as the Silk Road , which reached as far as the Mediterranean world .
Han forces managed  to divide the xiongnu into दो स्पर्धा राष्ट्र , the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी xiongnu , और मजबूर the उत्तरी xiongnu आरपार the इली नदी .
Despite these victories , the territories north of Han 's borders were  जल्दी  overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation .
After 92 AD , the palace eunuchs increasingly involved themselves in court politics , engaging in violent power struggles between the various consort clans of the empresses and empress  dowagers , causing  the Han 's ultimate downfall .
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist religious societies which instigated the Yellow Turban Rebellion and the  Five Pecks of  Rice Rebellion .
Following the death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ) , the palace eunuchs suffered wholesale massacre by military officers , allowing members of the aristocracy and military governors   to become warlords and divide the empire .
When   Cao Pi , King of Wei , usurped the throne from Emperor Xian , the Han Dynasty ceased to exist .
The Han Dynasty was an age of economic   prosperity and saw a significant growth of the money economy first established during the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ) .
The coinage issued by the central government mint in 119 BC  remained  the standard coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ) .
To pay for its military campaigns and the settlement of newly conquered frontier  territories  , the government nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC .
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han period , and the lost revenue was recouped through heavily taxing private  उद्यमियों  .
The emperor was at the  शिखर of हान  society .
He presided over  the हान  government but shared power with both the nobility and appointed ministers who came largely from the scholarly gentry class .
From the reign of Emperor Wu onward , the Chinese court officially sponsored Confucianism in education and  court  politics , synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu .
This policy endured  जबतक the पतन  of the Qing Dynasty in 1911 AD .
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances , including papermaking , the nautical steering rudder , the use of negative numbers in mathematics , the raised-relief map , the hydraulic -powered armillary sphere for astronomy  , and a  seismometer employing an inverted pendulum .
Tourette syndrome ( also  पुकारा tourette 's सिंड्रोम , tourette 's विकार , गाइल्स de la tourette सिंड्रोम , gts or , अधिक commonly , बस tourette 's or ts ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric विकार साथ onset in बाल्यकाल , characterized by अनेक शारीरिक ( मोटर ) tics और at तनिक एक गायन ( phonic ) टिक .
These tics characteristically wax and wane , can be  suppressed  temporarily , and are preceded by a premonitory urge .
Tourette 's is defined as part of a  वर्णक्रम of टिक विकार  , which includes transient and chronic tics .
Tourette 's was once considered a rare and bizarre syndrome , most often associated with the exclamation of obscene words or socially inappropriate and derogatory remarks ( coprolalia ) , but this symptom is present in only a small minority of people  with  Tourette 's .
tourette 's is no longer माना a विरल कंडीशन , लकिन it is नहीं सदा correctly पहचाना क्युकी सबसे मामले हैं mild और the गंभीरता of tics decreases लिये सबसे children as वे pass through किशोरावस्था  .
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the prevalence of transient and chronic tics in school-age children is higher , with the more common tics  of नजर blinking ,  coughing , throat clearing , sniffing , and facial movements .
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity  ,  and Tourette 's does not adversely affect intelligence or life expectancy .
Genetic and environmental factors play a  भूमिका  in the etiology of Tourette 's , but the exact causes are unknown .
In most cases ,  दवा  is unnecessary .
There is no effective treatment for every  मामला of  tics , but certain medications and therapies can help when their use is warranted .
शिक्षा is an महत्वपूर्ण भाग  of any treatment plan , and explanation and reassurance alone are often sufficient treatment .
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) and  obsessive–compulsive  disorder ( OCD ) are present in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics .
These other  शर्तें प्रायः  cause more functional impairment to the individual than the tics that are the hallmark of Tourette 's , hence it is important to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them .
the eponym  was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of his resident , Georges Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles de la Tourette ( 1859–1904 ) , a French physician and neurologist , who published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885 .
Sunbeam  बैज  .
Sunbeam was a marque registered by John Marston Co. Ltd of Wolverhampton , England  ,  in 1888 .
The company first made bicycles , then motorcycles and cars from the late 19th century until about 1936 ,  and applied the  marque to all three forms of transportation .
The company also manufactured aero engines in  the पहला  World War and 647 aircraft during the Second World War .
A  सनबीम थी the पहला  British car to win a Grand Prix race , and set a number of land speed records .
The  कम्पनी  went into receivership in 1935 and was purchased by the Rootes Group , which continued to use the Sunbeam marque .
Fox News Channel ( FNC ) , also  ज्ञात as फॉक्स  News , is a cable news channel owned by the Fox Entertainment Group , a subsidiary of News Corporation .
As of April 2009 ,  the  channel was available to 102 million households in the United States and to viewers internationally , broadcasting primarily from its New York studios .
The  चैनल थी निर्मित by australian-american मीडिया mogul रुपर्ट मर्डोक , जो नियुक्त पूर्व एनबीसी कार्यपालिका रोजर ailes as इसके founding सीईओ .
It launched on   October 7 , 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers .
It grew during the late 1990s and 2000s  to become  the dominant cable news network in the United States .
Critics have stated that Fox News  चैनल  promotes conservative political positions and biased reporting .
Commentators , news anchors , and reporters at Fox News  चैनल  have responded that news reporting and political commentary operate independently of each other , and have denied any bias in news reporting .
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away from the midline of the face ) from both the mandibular second premolars of the mouth but mesial ( toward the midline of the face ) from both  mandibular  second molars .
It is located on the mandibular ( lower ) arch  of the मुँह  , and generally opposes the maxillary ( upper ) first molars and the maxillary 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion .
The function of this molar is  समान  to that of all molars in regard to grinding being the principal action during mastication , commonly known as chewing .
There are usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular first molars : two on the buccal ( side nearest the cheek ) , two lingual ( side  निकटतम the जीभ ) ,  and one distal .
There are great differences between the deciduous ( baby ) mandibular molars  और those of the  permanent mandibular molars , even though their function are similar .
The permanent mandibular   molars are not considered to have any teeth that precede it .
Despite being named molars , the deciduous molars are followed by permanent  premolars  .
In the universal  प्रणाली of संकेतन  , the deciduous mandibular first molars are designated by a letter written in uppercase .
the सही पतझड़ी mandibular  first molar is known as `` S '' , and the left one is known as `` L '' .
the  international notation has a different system of notation .
Thus , the right deciduous mandibular first  molar is known  as `` 84 '' , and the left one is known as `` 74 '' .
In the  सार्वभौमिक  system of notation , the permanent mandibular first molars are designated by a number .
The right permanent mandibular first molar is  ज्ञात as ``  30 '' , and the left one is known as `` 19 '' .
The Palmer notation uses a number in conjunction with  a प्रतीक designating  in which quadrant the tooth is found .
For this tooth , the left and right first molars would have the  वही  number , `` 6 '' , but the right one would have the symbol , `` ┐ '' , over it , while the left one would have , `` ┌ '' .
The international notation has a different numbering system than the previous  दो , और the सही स्थाई mandibular पहला molar  is known as `` 46 '' , and the left one is known as `` 36 '' .
Mandibular  प्राथमिक पहला  molars usually have four pulp horns .
The first molar is usually the first permanent tooth to  erupt और  has adult undertones .
Anatomy : The mandibular first molar has five cusps : the mesiobuccal  ( MB , toward midline and cheek ) ,  mesiolingual ( ML , toward midline and tongue ) , distolingual ( DL , away from midline and towards tongue ) , distobuccal ( DB , away from midline and toward cheek ) , and distal ( D , away from midline ) , listed in order of decreasing size .
Listed in order of decreasing height they are : ML , DL , DF , MF , and D. An eighth   cusp was found in a primary second lower molar in an Argentinean child .
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ) , the mandibular first molar is  pentagonal  ( five sided ) in shape and tapers toward the lingual , with the sides being the buccal surface , the mesial surface , the lingual surface , distal surface , and the distobuccal surface .
The occlusal surface has  चार  grooves .
The central groove is not straight but runs down the center of the tooth mesially to distally   and contains four pits ( mesial , central , central , and distal ) .
The distobuccal groove runs from the distal   pit in the central groove distobuccally separating the distal and distobuccal cusps .
The lingual groove runs  from the  more distal of the central pits in the central groove toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual and distolingual cusps .
The  buccal नाली रनों इससे  the more mesial of the central pits in the central groove toward the buccal surface between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps ending in the buccal pit .
The portion of the central groove between the central pits is termed the Lewis offset and is mandatory to account for the locations of the buccal and lingual  डोले ( buccal नाली होने अधिक mesial than the  lingual groove while they are parallel ) .
From the buccal ( buccal view )  ,  two roots are present .
The  distal रूट  is generally straighter , although both often have a slight distal curvature .
The heights of contour on the mesial and distal  सम्पर्क the सटा  teeth and are located at the junction of the occlusal and middle thirds of the crown .
The Florida Legislature is the two houses that act as the state legislature  of the  U.S. state of Florida .
the फ्लोरिडा संविधान राज्य कि `` the विधान शक्ति of the राज्य shall be vested in a विधानमंडल of the राज्य of फ्लोरिडा , '' रचित of a सीनेट और हाउस of प्रतिनिधि .
the विधानमंडल is seated at the फ्लोरिडा राज्य कैपिटल in tallahassee  .
stained कांच  depiction of Daniel interceding with Arioch , the king 's guard .
Arioch had been charged with killing all the wise men after they were not  समर्थ  to interpret Nebuchadnezzar 's dream .
Daniel 2 is   the second chapter of the Book of Daniel in the Hebrew Bible .
The chapter 's source text is  predominantly  written in Aramaic .
According to the text , Nebuchadnezzar is the king of Babylon who is troubled by his dreams  .
He demands an interpretation for his dreams or will have his mystic  interpreters  executed .
Daniel seeks Divine Wisdom to interpret the king 's dreams  और गुणगान परमेश्वर  with a short psalm .
God gives Daniel a  दृष्टि  in the night to reveal the king 's dream .
Able to satisfy the king ,  डेनियल is प्रचारित  over the whole province of Babylon .
One Comcast Center , the headquarters of Comcast in  फिलाडेल्फिया  , PA .
The  बूढ़ा  Comcast logo from 1969 to 1999 , when it was replaced with the crescent logo .
The Comcast Corporation is an American provider of entertainment , information and   communications products and services .
It is the largest cable operator , one of the biggest mass media , home Internet service provider , and third largest home telephone service provider in the United States , providing cable television , broadband Internet , telephone service and in some  क्षेत्रों  home security ( including burglar alarms , surveillance cameras , fire alarm systems and home automation ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia .
The company is  headquartered in  Philadelphia , Pennsylvania .
In 2011 , Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate NBCUniversal from GE in January 2011 , and began the process of purchasing the remaining 49 % on February 12 , 2013 ,  at a लागत of $  16.7 billion .
It completed the purchase on  कूच  19 , 2013 .
Comcast also has significant holding in several cable  संजाल  ( including E !
Entertainment  टेलीविज़न  , Style Network , G4 , the Golf Channel and NBC Sports Network ) , distribution ( ThePlatform ) , and related businesses .
Comcast has been the subject of criticism for activities including its stance on net neutrality , as well as poor results on  ग्राहक संतोष  surveys .
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of sharp spines , or quills , that defend and  camouflage  them from predators .
They are  स्वदेशी  to the Americas , southern Asia , and Africa .
porcupines  are the third largest of the rodents , behind the capybara and the beaver .
Most porcupines are about long , with an long   tail .
Weighing , they are rounded , large   and slow .
porcupines  come in various shades of brown , gray , and the unusual white .
Porcupines ' spiny protection resembles that of the unrelated erinaceomorph  hedgehogs और monotreme  echidnas .
the  common porcupine is a herbivore .
It eats leaves , herbs , twigs  and green  plants like skunk cabbage and clover and in the winter it may eat bark .
The North American porcupine often  climbs पेड़  to find food .
The African porcupine is  नहीं a  climber and forages on the ground .
It is  ज़्यादातर nocturnal  , but will sometimes forage for food in the day .
porcupines  have become a pest in Kenya and are eaten as a delicacy .
The name porcupine comes from Middle French   porc espin ( spined pig ) .
A regional  अमरीकी  name for the animal is quill pig .
First page of US patent 129,843 for  सुधार  in Lubricators for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2 , 1844 – October 10 , 1929 ) was a black Canadian-American inventor and engineer , who was notable for his 57 U.S.  patents , सबसे  to do with lubrication of steam engines .
Born free in Canada  , he returned as a  five-year-old child with his family to the United States in 1847 , where he lived for the rest of his life and became a US citizen .
Honda FCX Clarity ,  a हाइड्रोजन  fuel cell demonstration vehicle introduced in 2008
A hydrogen vehicle is a vehicle that uses   hydrogen as its onboard fuel for motive power .
Hydrogen vehicles include hydrogen fueled space rockets , as well as automobiles and  अन्य परिवहन  vehicles .
The power plants of such vehicles convert the chemical energy of hydrogen to mechanical energy either by burning hydrogen in an internal combustion engine , or   by reacting hydrogen with oxygen in a fuel cell to run electric motors .
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling transportation is a key  तत्व of  a proposed hydrogen economy .
Hydrogen  ईंधन करता नहीं occur naturally on धरती और यूँ is नहीं an उर्जा सोर्स ; बल्कि it is an उर्जा वाहक .
it is सबसे अक्सर बना इससे मिथेन or अन्य चट्टान fuels , लकिन it can be उत्पादित using स्त्रोत ( ऐसे as हवा , सौर , or नाभिकीय ) कि हैं intermittent , too व्याप्त or too cumbersome to सीधे propel  vehicles .
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants , using electrolysis of water , are exploring technologies to deliver costs low enough , and quantities great enough , to compete  with  traditional energy sources .
Many companies are working to develop technologies that might efficiently exploit the potential of  हाइड्रोजन  energy for mobile uses .
The attraction of using hydrogen as an  energy  currency is that , if hydrogen is prepared without using fossil fuel inputs , vehicle propulsion would not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions .
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost , low energy  सामग्री  per unit volume , high tankage weights , very high storage vessel pressures , the storage , transportation and filling of gaseous or liquid hydrogen in vehicles , the large investment in infrastructure that would be required to fuel vehicles , and the inefficiency of production processes .
Sacramento  is  the capital city of the U.S. state of California and the seat of government of Sacramento County .
It is  स्तिथ at the संगम  of the Sacramento River and the American River in the northern portion of California 's expansive Central Valley .
With an estimated 2011 population of  477,891  , it is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest city in the United States .
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the Sacramento metropolitan  area  which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles  Area , San Francisco  Bay Area , and the San Diego metropolitan area , as well as the 25th largest in the United States .
Sacramento was  cited by समय पत्रिका  as America 's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002 .
sacramento  became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter , Sr. , his son John Sutter , Jr. , and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's Fort , which was  स्थापित by sutter  in 1839 .
During the California Gold Rush , Sacramento was a major distribution point , a commercial and  agricultural  center , and a terminus for wagon trains , stagecoaches , riverboats , the telegraph , the Pony Express , and the First Transcontinental Railroad .
California State University , Sacramento , more commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State , is the largest  लोकल विश्वविद्यालयों  .
It is one of the twenty-three campuses  of  the California State University system .
Drexel  विश्वविद्यालयों  Sacramento is located in Downtown , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific 's McGeorge School of Law is located in the  Oak  Park neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California , Davis is located in nearby  Davis  , west of the capital .
The UC Davis Medical Center , a world-renowned  शोध  hospital , is located in the city of Sacramento .
The Apple Store  is  a chain of retail stores owned and operated by Apple Inc. , dealing in computers and consumer electronics .
The stores sell Macintosh personal computers , software  , ipods  , iPads , iPhones , third-party accessories , and other consumer electronics such as Apple TV .
Some high profile stores feature a Theatre for presentations and workshops and a Studio for training with Apple products ; all stores offer a Genius Bar for technical support and repairs , as well as free workshops  उपलब्धियाँ to the पब्लिक  .
Under the leadership of Ron  जॉनसन , the  former Senior Vice President of Retail Operations , the Apple Stores have , according to an article in the New York Times , been responsible for `` [ turning ] the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets '' .
, Apple has 405 stores worldwide , with global sales of billion in merchandise in 2011 , and they lead the United States retail market  in शर्तें  of sales per unit area .
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February  24 , 1955 – अक्तूबर 5 , 2011 ) थी an अमरीकी  entrepreneur and inventor , best known as the co-founder , chairman , and CEO of Apple Inc .
Through Apple , he was widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the  personal computer  revolution and for his influential career in the computer and consumer electronics fields , transforming `` one industry after another , from computers and smartphones to music and movies ... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he became a member of the board of directors  of the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी  Company in 2006 , when Disney acquired Pixar .
Jobs was among the first to see the  वाणिज्यिक संभावित  of Xerox PARC 's mouse -driven graphical user interface , which led to the creation of the Apple Lisa and , one year later , the Macintosh .
He also played a role in   introducing the LaserWriter , one of the first widely available laser printers , to the market .
After a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985 , Jobs left Apple and founded  अगला , a कंप्यूटर मंच  development company specializing in the higher-education and business markets .
In 1986 ,  he acquired the  computer graphics division of Lucasfilm , which was spun off as Pixar .
he थी credited in खिलौना स्टोरी ( 1995 ) as an कार्यपालिका निर्माता  .
He served as CEO and majority shareholder  जबतक  Disney 's purchase of Pixar in 2006 .
In 1996 , after Apple had failed to deliver its operating system , Copland , Gil Amelio turned to NeXT Computer , and the NeXTSTEP platform became   the foundation for the Mac OS X .
कार्य लौटे to ठहराना as an सलाहकार , और took कंट्रोल of the कम्पनी as an अंतरिम सीईओ  .
Jobs brought Apple from  near bankruptcy  to profitability by 1998 .
As the new CEO of the company , Jobs oversaw the  विकास of the imac , itunes  , iPod , iPhone , and iPad , and on the services side , the company 's Apple Retail Stores , iTunes Store and the App Store .
The success of these products and services provided several years of stable financial returns , and propelled Apple to become the world 's most  मूल्यवान  publicly traded company in 2011 .
The reinvigoration of the company  is  regarded by many commentators as one of the greatest turnarounds in business history .
In 2003 , Jobs  थी  diagnosed with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor .
Though it was initially treated , he reported a hormone imbalance , underwent a liver transplant in 2009 , and appeared progressively  thinner as his  health declined .
On medical leave for most of 2011 , Jobs resigned in August that year , and  थी निर्वाचित  Chairman of the Board .
He died of respiratory arrest related to his metastatic tumor on  अक्तूबर  5 , 2011 .
Jobs received a number of honors and public recognition for his influence in the technology  और म्यूज़िक  industries .
He has been referred to as `` legendary '' , a `` futurist '' or simply `` visionary '' , and has been described as the `` Father of  the Digital Revolution '' , a `` master of  innovation '' , and a `` design perfectionist '' .
Entrance   to section ( 52 ) of the Colosseum , with numerals still visible
Roman numerals , the numeric system in ancient Rome , uses combinations of letters from the Latin alphabet  to signify  values .
the संख्याएँ  1 to 10 can be expressed in Roman numerals as follows:
और  .
The Roman numeral system is a cousin of  etruscan numerals  .
Use of Roman numerals  continued  after the decline of the Roman Empire .
From the 14th century on , Roman  numerals began to be replaced in सबसे contexts  by more convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however this process was gradual , and the use of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this day .
Effective  नाभिकीय  Charge Diagram
The  प्रभावी नाभिकीय  charge ( often symbolize as or Z* ) is the net positive charge experienced by an electron in a multi-electron atom .
The term `` effective '' is used  क्युकी the shielding प्रभाव  of negatively charged electrons prevents higher orbital electrons from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons .
The  प्रभावी  nuclear charge experienced by the outer shell electron is also called the core charge .
It is possible to determine the  strength  of the nuclear charge by looking at the oxidation number of the atom .
This is a list of episodes from the Discovery Channel  series  , Storm Chasers .
A rural stretch of I-5 , with two lanes in each direction separated by  a  large grassy median , and with cross-traffic limited to overpasses and underpasses
The Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of Interstate and Defense Highways ( commonly known as the Interstate Highway System , Interstate Freeway System , Interstate System , or simply the Interstate ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the  नेशनल  Highway System of the United States .
The system is named for President   Dwight D. Eisenhower , who championed its formation .
Construction was authorized by the  संघीय सहायता राजमार्ग  Act of 1956 , and the original portion was completed 35 years later .
The network has  चूंकि महरूम विस्तारित , और , it था a कुल लंबाई of , बनाना it the संसार 's दूसरी longest बाद चीन 's . , परिचय one-quarter of सब गाडी मील चलित in the देश उपयोग the अंतरराज्यीय प्रणाली .
The cost of construction has been estimated at $ 425 billion ( in 2006  डॉलर  ) , making it the `` largest public works program since the Pyramids `` .
The system has contributed in  shaping the संयुक्त  States into a world economic superpower and a highly industrialized nation .
.eu is the country code top-level   domain ( ccTLD ) for the European Union ( EU ) .
Launched on 7 December  2005  , the domain is available for organisations in and residents of EU member states .
The TLD is administered by EURid , a consortium originally consisting of the national ccTLD registry operators of Belgium , Sweden , and Italy , joined later by the national  रजिस्ट्री ऑपरेटर of the  Czech Republic .
Trademark owners were able to submit registrations through a sunrise period , in an effort  to prevent  cybersquatting .
Full  पंजीकरण  started on 7 April 2006 .
Meister means  निपुण in जर्मनी  ( as in master craftsman , or as an honorific title such as Meister Eckhart ) .
The  शब्द is  akin to maestro .
In sports ,  Meister is used for the  current national , European or world champion ( Deutscher Meister , *Europameister , Weltmeister ) .
Many modern  दिन  German police forces use the title Meister .
During the Second  World War ,  Meister was the highest enlisted rank of the Ordnungspolizei .
Meister  रै महरूम  borrowed into English slang , where it is used in compound nouns .
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who has extensive theoretical knowledge and practical skills in his profession , business , or some   other kind of work or activity .
For example , a “puzzle-meister” would be someone highly  skilled at solving  puzzles .
These neologisms sometimes have a sarcastic intent ( for example ,  “stubble-meister”  for someone with a short , neat beard or “crier-meister” for someone who often cries ) .
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's television series about teenagers with super-powers , based on the 16th installment of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise , Kyōryū  sentai  Zyuranger .
Both the show and its related merchandise saw unbridled overnight   success , becoming a staple of 1990s pop culture in mere months .
Under the original name , `` Mighty Morphin Power Rangers '' the series ran from 1993 to 1995 and spawned the  विशेषता फिल्मी mighty morphin  Power Rangers : The Movie .
The second and third seasons of the show drew on footage and elements from the Super Sentai series Gosei Sentai Dairanger and Ninja Sentai Kakuranger respectively  , though the  Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains .
Only the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the White Ranger ) were retained from Dairanger for the second season , while only  the mecha इससे kakuranger यहूद प्रदर्शित  in the third season .
However the Kakuranger costumes were  बाद प्रयुक्त लिये  the title characters of the mini-series , Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers .
The series was produced by  mmpr प्रोडक्शन्स  , distributed by Saban Entertainment , and aired on Fox Kids .
The show 's merchandise was produced  और  distributed by Bandai Entertainment .
In 1996 , the series was rebranded as  the  Power Rangers franchise ; renaming the series every year after , and using costumes , props , and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series , as well as changing the cast and storyline .
While an overarching storyline would continue until Power Rangers Lost Galaxy , subsequent series after MMPR are  नहीं सिक्वेल or spin-offs in the परंपरागत  sense .
In 2010 , a re-version of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers , with a new logo , comic book-referenced graphics , and extra alternative special effects , was broadcast on ABC Kids , and Bandai produced  brand new toys to  coincide with the series .
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ;  जनवरी 19 , 1809 – अक्तूबर 7 , 1849 )  was an American author , poet , editor and literary critic , considered part of the American Romantic Movement .
Best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre , Poe was one of the earliest American  practitioners of the  short story and is generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre .
He is further credited with contributing to the   emerging genre of science fiction .
He was the first well-known American writer to try to earn a living  through लिखने  alone , resulting in a financially difficult life and career .
he थी born as एडगर पो in बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स ; he थी अनाथ यंग जब उसके माँ died shortly बाद उसके पिता  abandoned the family .
Poe was taken in by John and Frances Allan , of Richmond , Virginia , but they never   formally adopted him .
He attended the University of Virginia for one semester but left due  to  lack of money .
After enlisting  in  the Army and later failing as an officer 's cadet at West Point , Poe parted ways with the Allans .
His publishing career began humbly , with an anonymous collection of poems  ,  Tamerlane and Other Poems ( 1827 ) , credited only to `` a Bostonian '' .
Poe switched  उसके फ़ोकस to  prose and spent the next several years working for literary journals and periodicals , becoming known for his own style of literary criticism .
His work forced him to move among several cities , including Baltimore , Philadelphia , and New  यॉर्क नगर .
In  बाल्टीमोर  in 1835 , he married Virginia Clemm , his 13-year-old cousin .
In  जनवरी 1845 पो  published his poem , `` The Raven `` , to instant success .
His wife died of tuberculosis two  सालो बाद  its publication .
He began planning to produce his own journal , The Penn ( later renamed The  स्टाइलस ) , हालांकि he died पहले it  could be produced .
On October 7 , 1849 , at age 40 , Poe died in Baltimore ; the cause of his death is  unknown and  has been variously attributed to alcohol , brain congestion , cholera , drugs , heart disease , rabies , suicide , tuberculosis , and other agents .
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the world , as well as in specialized  fields  , such as cosmology and cryptography .
Poe and his work appear throughout popular culture in literature , music , films , and  टेलीविज़न  .
A number of  उसके  homes are dedicated museums today .
The Mystery Writers of America present an annual award known as the Edgar  पुरस्कार लिये विशिष्ट  work in the mystery genre .
Lions are obligate carnivores ; they require up  to सात गामा ( 15  lbs ) of meat per day .
A major component of their diet   is the flesh of large mammals , like this African buffalo .
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin , caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare meaning 'to devour ' ) is an  सजीव कि  derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue , whether through predation or scavenging .
Animals that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient requirements are  माना carnivores  while those that also consume non-animal food are considered carnivores .
Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food , and apart from the more general definition , there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to animal material that would distinguish a  facultative  carnivore from an omnivore .
A carnivore that sits at the top of the   foodchain is an apex predator .
पौधे कि कैप्चर और डाइजेस्ट कीट हैं पुकारा मांसाहारी पौधे .
Similarly , fungi that capture microscopic animals are  प्रायः  called carnivorous fungi .
The FIFA World  कप , प्रायः बस the  World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
the चैंपियनशिप रै महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1930 , मगर in 1942 और 1946 जब it थी नहीं आयोजित क्युकी of the दूसरी संसार  War .
The current champions are Spain , who won  the  2010 tournament .
The current  स्वरूप of the टूर्नामेंट involves  32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to determine which teams qualify for the   tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments  have  been won by eight different national teams .
Brazil have won five times , and they are the only team  to have निभाई  in every tournament .
the अन्य संसार कप विजेता हैं इटली , साथ चार शीर्षक ; जर्मनी , साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे , साथ दो शीर्षक प्रत्येक ; और इंग्लैण्ड , फ़्रांस , और स्पेन , साथ एक शीर्षक प्रत्येक  .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match  of  the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The  अगला  three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014 , Russia in 2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
Heroes is an American science fiction television drama series created by  Tim Kring that  appeared on NBC for four seasons from September 25 , 2006 through February 8 , 2010 .
The series tells the  कहानियां of ordinary लोगों जो discover superhuman  abilities , and how these abilities take effect in the characters ' lives .
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of American comic books , using  multi-episode  story arcs that build upon a larger , more encompassing arc .
The series was produced by Tailwind Productions in  संघ साथ सार्वभौमिक  Media Studios .
It was filmed primarily in Los Angeles , California   .
चार पूरा सीज़न aired , समाप्ति on फ़रवरी 8 , 2010 .
The critically acclaimed first season had a run of 23 episodes and garnered  an औसत  of 14.3 million viewers in the United States , receiving the highest rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years .
The second season of Heroes attracted an average  of 13.1  million viewers in the U.S. , and marked NBC 's sole series among the top 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 season .
Heroes  रै अर्जित a क्रमांक of पुरस्कार और nominations , सहित प्राइमटाइम एमी पुरस्कार , सुनहरी ग्लोब्स , लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार और अंग्रेजों अकादमी टेलीविज़न पुरस्कार .
An online extension of the series , Heroes 360 Experience , later rebranded as Heroes Evolutions , was created to explore the Heroes universe and  provides  insight into the show 's mythology .
Other official Heroes media include magazines , action  आंकड़े  , tie-in and interactive websites , a mobile game , a novel , clothing and other merchandise .
in the पतन of 2008 , एनबीसी डिजिटल entertainment released a श्रेणी of ऑनलाइन सामग्री लिये the गर्मियाँ , सहित अधिक असली वेब सामग्री , बेतार आईटीवी interactivity , ग्राफिक novels उपलब्धियाँ लिये मोबाईल देखने और webisodes .
NBC announced Heroes cancellation  on  May 14 , 2010 .
Afterward , the network considered making a television special event to conclude the series ; however , on September 9 , 2010 , NBC announced the   decision to stop any further development of the Heroes franchise .
Tim Kring then suggested that the broad premise of Heroes storylines allowed for the franchise to return for fans , but he did not specify  जब  or in what media format .
On April 17 , 2013 , TV Line reported that MSN was in talks to revive the series  साथ a नई डाल  .
जॉन  Pierpont `` J. P . ''
Morgan ( April 17 , 1837 – March 31 , 1913 ) was an American financier , banker  ,  philanthropist and art collector who dominated corporate finance and industrial consolidation during his time .
In 1892 Morgan arranged the merger of Edison General Electric and  thomson-houston  Electric Company to form General Electric .
बाद financing the सृष्टि of the संघीय स्टील कम्पनी , he मिलाया in 1901 साथ the कार्नेगी स्टील कम्पनी और अनेक अन्य स्टील और आयरन व्यवसायों , सहित संचित स्टील और तार कम्पनी स्वामित्व by विलियम edenborn , to रूप the संयुक्त राज्य स्टील निगम .
Morgan died in Rome , Italy , in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75 , leaving  उसके सौभाग्य और कारोबार to उसके बेटे  , John Pierpont `` Jack '' Morgan , Jr. , and bequeathing his mansion and large book collections to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York .
At the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s , he and his partners had financial investments in many large corporations and were accused by critics of controlling  the  nation 's high finance .
He directed the  बैंकिंग गठबन्धन  that stopped the Panic of 1907 .
He was the leading financier  of the प्रगतिशील  Era , and his dedication to efficiency and modernization helped transform American business .
This is a  सूची  of episodes of the television series .
The episodes were  निर्देशित  by Shigeru Ueda and produced by the Yggdrasil Executive Committee which included Xebec and Genco .
The plot  of the episodes is set in Tokyo and revolves around  Rin Asōgi , an immortal private investigator , as she explores the secrets of modern and near-future world and the supernatural events that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself .
There are large time gaps in the internal chronology  between  the first five episodes , ranging from one to thirty years .
The six episodes were broadcast monthly on AT-X channel in Japan , between February  3 and  July 6 , 2008 .
Each episode is 45 minutes  long  .
Two pieces of theme music are used for the episodes : the opening theme `` Alsatia '' and the ending theme `` Cause Disarray   '' .
Both were composed  और performed by  the Japanese metal band Galneryus .
The series was produced to commemorate  the  tenth anniversary of the AT-X network it originally aired on .
Aerial photo of FLETC , where US digital forensics standards were developed in the  1980s  and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital  forensic विज्ञान ) is a शाखा of  forensic science encompassing the recovery and investigation of material found in digital devices , often in relation to computer crime .
The term  डिजिटल  forensics was originally used as a synonym for computer forensics but has expanded to cover investigation of all devices capable of storing digital data .
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the late 1970s and  जल्दी '80s  , the discipline evolved in a haphazard manner during the 1990s , and it was not until the early 21st century that national policies emerged .
Digital forensics investigations have a  किस्में of अनुप्रयोग  .
The most common is to support or refute  a  hypothesis before criminal or civil ( as part of the electronic discovery process ) courts .
Forensics may also feature in the private sector ; such as during internal corporate  investigations or intrusion  investigation ( a specialist probe into the nature and extent of an unauthorized network intrusion ) .
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into several sub-branches , relating to the type of digital devices involved ; computer forensics , network forensics , forensic  आंकड़ा विश्लेषण और  mobile device forensics .
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure ,  forensic  imaging ( acquisition ) and analysis of digital media and the production of a report into collected evidence .
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime , digital forensics can be used to attribute evidence to specific suspects , confirm alibis or statements , determine intent , identify sources ( for example , in copyright cases ) , or authenticate  दस्तावेज़  .
Investigations are much broader in scope than other areas of forensic analysis ( where the usual aim is to provide  जवाब to a श्रेणी of simpler सवाल ) प्रायः involving  complex time-lines or hypotheses .
A  तुलना  of the chromaticities enclosed by some color spaces .
A color model is an  अमूर्त गणितीय मॉडल describing  the way colors can be represented as tuples of numbers , typically as three or four values or color components ( e.g . RGB and CMYK are color models ) .
However , a color model with no associated mapping function to an absolute color space is a more or less arbitrary  रंग  system with no connection to any globally understood system of color interpretation .
Adding a certain mapping  फलन  between the color model and a certain reference color space results in a definite `` footprint '' within the reference color space .
This ``  पदचिह्न  '' is known as a gamut , and , in combination with the color model , defines a new color space .
For  उदाहरण , adobe  RGB and sRGB are two different absolute color spaces , both based on the RGB model .
in the सबसे जेनेरिक भाव of the परिभाषा ऊपर , रंग स्पेसेस can be पारिभाषित बगैर the उपयोग of a रंग मॉडल .
These spaces , such as Pantone , are in effect a given set of names or numbers which are defined by the existence of a corresponding set  of शारीरिक रंग  swatches .
This article focuses on  the गणितीय  model concept .
Labor Day is an American federal holiday observed on the  first  Monday in September , that celebrates the economic and social contributions of workers .
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) and an insurer , where the insurer promises to pay a designated beneficiary a sum of  धन ( the `` लाभ  '' ) upon the death of the insured person .
Depending on the  अनुबंध , अन्य  events such as terminal illness or critical illness may also trigger payment .
The policy holder typically   pays a premium , either regularly or as a lump sum .
Other expenses ( such as funeral expenses ) are also sometimes included in the benefits   .
Life policies are legal  अनुबंध  and the terms of the contract describe the limitations of the insured events .
Specific exclusions are often  लिखा  into the contract to limit the liability of the insurer ; common examples are claims relating to suicide , fraud , war , riot and civil commotion .
Life-based contracts tend to  पतन  into two major categories:
Protection policies – designed to provide a benefit in the event of specified event , typically a lump  योग भुगतान  .
A common form of this design is  term  insurance .
Investment  नीतियों – जहाँ the  main objective is to facilitate the growth of capital by regular or single premiums .
Common forms ( in the US ) are whole life , universal life and  परिवर्तनीय जीवन  policies .
{ {  infobox  Holiday
चाइनीज  New Year
9 – 12  फ़रवरी  ( Vietnam )
Mitzi Gaynor Donahue ( born May 2 , 1962 in Yorba  लिंडा , नारंगी  County , California ) is an American actress , also credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture .
Kapture began her career in films ,  most of  which were not huge commercial successes .
She went on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver , 1st & Ten , and as a contestant on The $ 100,000 Pyramid ) before she gained international exposure with her first major television role as  सार्जेंट  Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings .
Kapture 's role as Rita , the  अन्य हाफ of  the two `` Sams '' for almost 5 years , cemented her popularity .
Paired with Rob Estes who played Sergeant Chris Lorenzo , Kapture gained global recognition along with her costar since  the दिखाएँ थी ब्रॉडकास्ट in  several countries .
Sergeant Lance eventually became  लेफ्टिनेंट तलवार  by the time Kapture left the series in 1995 to have her first child Madison .
During her time with the series , Kapture briefly   sat in the director 's chair , for two episodes .
वो थी interviewed लिये the रेशा stalkings ऋतु 1 dvd जिससे थी वितरित by लंगर खाड़ी entertainment और released in सितंबर 2004 .
After a short hiatus from the screen following her exit from Silk  stalkings , kapture  returned in 1997 to the small screen and USA Network .
She played lead roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies , Perfect Crime ( based on a true story , also called Hide and Seek : The Joanne  Jensen Story ) , which also  starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard .
She later starred in a few other independent film projects and theatre productions  और था  several television guest appearances .
kapture भी था a पुनरावर्ती भूमिका on बेवाच as एलेक्सिस ryker .
She played Anita Hodges on The Young and the Restless from 2002 through 2004 , where she was credited as Mitzi Kapture Donahue , and starred in the made-for-TV   movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26 , 2006 on Lifetime Network .
Her   latest is a supporting role in God 's Ears , released in 2007 .
Kapture is the official  हस्ती प्रवक्ता  for the Xeroderma Pigmentosum Society .
The  एक्सबॉक्स 360 is the  second video game console developed by and produced for Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox .
the एक्सबॉक्स 360 competes साथ  Sony 's PlayStation 3 and Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles .
As of September 30 , 2012 ,  70 लाख  Xbox 360 consoles have been sold worldwide .
The Xbox 360 was officially  अनावरण  on MTV on May 12 , 2005 , with detailed launch and game information divulged later that month at the Electronic Entertainment Expo ( E3 ) .
The console sold out completely  upon रिलीज in  all regions except in Japan .
Several major features of the Xbox 360 are its integrated Xbox Live service  that allows  players to compete online ; download arcade games , game demos , trailers , TV shows , music and movies ; and its Windows Media Center multimedia capabilities .
The Xbox Live also offers access to various ( often region-specific   ) third-party media streaming applications .
At their E3 presentation on June 14 , 2010 , Microsoft announced a  redesigned एक्सबॉक्स 360 कि  would ship on the same day .
the redesigned  console is slimmer than the previous Xbox 360 model and features integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi , TOSLINK S/PDIF optical audio output , five USB 2.0 ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port .
Older models of the  एक्सबॉक्स 360 have  since been discontinued .
The first new console to be released features  a  250 GB hard drive , while a later , less expensive SKU features 4 GB internal storage .
backpack  may also refer to a 2001 novel by Emily Barr
A  आधुनिक  backpack
Swiss army  backpack ca  . 1960
एकीकृत  bearer frame .
A backpack ( also called rucksack , knapsack , packsack , pack ) is , in its simplest form , a cloth sack carried on one 's back and secured with two straps that go over the  कन्धों  , but there can be exceptions .
Lightweight types of backpacks are sometimes worn on   only one shoulder strap .
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying any sort of equipment , because of the limited capacity to  carry  heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands .
Large backpacks , used to carry  loads over  10 kg ( 22 lbs ) , usually offload the largest part ( up to about 90 % ) of their weight onto padded hip belts , leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the load .
This improves the potential  to  carry heavy loads , as the hips are stronger than the shoulders , and also increases agility and balance , since the load rides nearer the wearer 's own center of mass .
In ancient times , the backpack was used as  a  means to carry the hunter 's larger game and other types of prey and as a way of easier transport for other materials .
In the cases of larger hunts , the hunters would dismember their prey and distribute the pieces of the animal around , each one packing the meat into many wrappings and then into  बैग जिससे  they placed on to their backs .
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide and skin ( depending on what sorts of animals were in the area ) and sewn together by the intestines of  कहा  animals , which were woven together tightly to make a sturdy thread-like material .
Mexico  ( ; ; ) , officially the  United Mexican States ( ) , is a federal constitutional republic in North America .
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the south and west by the Pacific Ocean ; on the southeast by Guatemala , Belize , and the Caribbean Sea ; and on the  ईस्ट by the गल्फ  of Mexico .
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over 760,000  sq mi  ) , Mexico is the fifth largest country in the Americas by total area and the 13th largest independent nation in the world .
With an estimated population of over 113 million , it is the world 's eleventh most populous country and the most populous  spanish-speaking  country .
Mexico is a federation comprising thirty-one states and a Federal District , the capital   city .
In  pre-columbian मैक्सिको अनेक संस्कृतियों matured  into advanced civilizations such as the Olmec , the Toltec , the Teotihuacan , the Zapotec , the Maya and the Aztec before first contact with Europeans .
In 1521 , Spain conquered and colonized the  territory  from its base in México-Tenochtitlan , which was administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain .
This territory would  आखिरकार become मैक्सिको  following recognition of the colony 's independence in 1821 .
The post-independence period was characterized by economic instability , the Mexican-American War and territorial cession to the United States ,  a सिविल  war , two empires and a domestic dictatorship .
The latter led  to the मैक्सिकन क्रान्ति in 1910 , जिससे culminated साथ the promulgation of the 1917 संविधान और the emergence of the देश 's वर्तमान राजनैतिक प्रणाली .
Elections held in July  2000 चिह्नित  the first time that an opposition party won the presidency from the Institutional Revolutionary Party .
Since 2006 the country   has been in the midst of a drug war which has caused 60,000 deaths .
Mexico has one of the world 's largest economies , and is considered both a regional  शक्ति और मध्य  power .
In addition , Mexico was the first Latin American member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD ( since 1994 ) , and considered an upper-middle  आय देश by the संसार  Bank .
Mexico is considered a newly industrialized country and an emerging  power  .
It has the fourteenth largest nominal GDP and the eleventh largest   GDP by purchasing power parity .
The  अर्थव्यवस्था is strongly linked to those of इसके उत्तर अमरीकी फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध ( nafta ) साझेदार , विशेषकर the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका .
मैक्सिको बाँधने छठे in the संसार और पहला in the americas by क्रमांक of युनेस्को संसार विरासत साइट साथ 31 , और in 2007 थी the दसवाँ सबसे visited देश in the संसार साथ 21.4 लाख अंतरराष्ट्रीय आमद प्रति  year .
Babe Ruth holds the MLB career  slugging प्रतिशत  record ( .690 ) .
In baseball statistics , slugging  प्रतिशत ( abbreviated slg ) is a लोकप्रिय  measure of the power of a hitter .
It is calculated as total bases divided by at   bats :
where AB is  the क्रमांक of  at-bats for a given player , and 1B , 2B , 3B , and HR are the number of singles , doubles , triples , and home runs , respectively .
सैर  are specifically excluded from this calculation .
For example , in 1920 , Babe Ruth played his first season for the New York  यांकीज़  .
In 458 at bats , Ruth had 172 hits , comprising 73 singles , 36   doubles , 9 triples , and 54 home runs , which brings the total base count to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388 .
His total number of bases ( 388 ) divided by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is .847 , his slugging percentage   for the season .
The next year he slugged .846 , and these records went unbroken until 2001 , when Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases in 476 at-bats , bringing his slugging  प्रतिशत to  .863 , unmatched since .
is a  role-playing वीडियो खेल  developed and published by Square ( now Square Enix ) for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995 .
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu Sakaguchi , the creator of Square 's Final Fantasy series ; Yuji Horii , a freelance designer and creator of Enix 's popular Dragon Quest  श्रेणी ; और अकिरा toriyama  , a freelance manga artist famed for his work with Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball .
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game , Masato Kato wrote most of the plot , while composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the game before falling ill and deferring remaining   tracks to Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu .
The game 's  स्टोरी  follows a group of adventurers who travel through time to prevent a global catastrophe .
Square re-released a ported  संस्करण by tose in जापानी लिये सोनी  's PlayStation in 1999 , later repackaged with a Final Fantasy IV port as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market .
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was released for the Nintendo DS on November 25 , 2008 , in North America and Japan , and went on  बिक्री in  Australia on February 3 , 2009 and in Europe on February 6 , 2009 .
The game was never released in PAL territories before the   Nintendo DS version .
Chrono Trigger was a critical and commercial success upon release and is considered today to  be एक of  the greatest video games of all time .
निन्टेंडो  Power magazine described aspects of Chrono Trigger as revolutionary , including its multiple endings , plot-related sidequests focusing on character development , unique battle system , and detailed graphics .
chrono ट्रिगर थी the तीसरा best-selling खेल of 1995 , और the खेल 's snes और प्लेस्टेशन iterations have shipped 2.65 लाख नक़ल as of कूच 2003  .
The version for the Nintendo DS sold 790,000 copies as of  कूच  2009 .
Chrono Trigger  थी भी  ported to mobile phones , Virtual Console , the PlayStation Network ( only in the USA ) , iOS devices , and Android devices .
बकरी  cheese
Goat cheese  , or  chèvre ( from the French word for goat ) , is cheese made out of the milk of goats .
Hyperthermia is elevated body temperature due to  विफल thermoregulation  that occurs when a body produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates .
Extreme temperature  उन्नयन तब becomes  a medical emergency requiring immediate treatment to prevent disability or death .
The  सबसे  common causes include heat stroke and adverse reactions to drugs .
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive heat , or  संयोजन of ऊष्मा  and humidity , that overwhelms the heat-regulating mechanisms .
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of many drugs ,   particularly those that affect the central nervous system .
Malignant hyperthermia is a rare complication of some types of  सामान्य  anesthesia .
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately  induced using drugs or  medical devices and may be used in the treatment of some kinds of cancer and other conditions , most commonly in conjunction with radiotherapy .
Hyperthermia differs from fever in that the  देह  's temperature set point remains unchanged .
The opposite is hypothermia ,  जिससे occurs जब the तापमान  drops below that required to maintain normal metabolism .
Belize , is a country located on the  northeastern  coast of Central America .
It is the only country in the area  जहाँ अंग्रेज़ी  is the official language , although Kriol and Spanish are more commonly spoken .
Belize is bordered on the north  by  Mexico , to the south and west by Guatemala and to the east by the Caribbean Sea .
Its mainland  is परिचय  long and wide .
With of land and a population of only 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 census ) , Belize possesses the lowest population  घनत्व in सेंट्रल  America .
The country 's population growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est . ) is the  दूसरी  highest in the region and one of the highest in the western hemisphere .
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and marine  प्रजाति , और इसके विविधता  of ecosystems give it a key place within the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor .
Belize has a diverse society , comprising  many  cultures and languages .
it  is the only nation in the region with a British colonial heritage , but as a part of the Western Caribbean Zone , it also shares a common heritage with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean countries .
In general , Belize is considered to be a Central American and  caribbean  nation with strong ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America .
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) , the Community  of Latin  American and Caribbean States ( CELAC ) , and Central American Integration System ( SICA ) .
Belize is known  लिये इसके सितंबर  Celebrations , and is the birthplace of chewing gum and Punta Rock .
The `` Betsy   Ross '' flag
A `` Betsy Ross  ''  flag flying outside San Francisco City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the flag of the  United  States , popularly attributed to Betsy Ross , using the common motifs of alternating red-and-white striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton .
The flag was designed during the American Revolution and features 13 stars to represent the original  13  colonies .
The distinctive feature of the Ross flag is the arrangement of the  सितारों in  a circle .
Although the Betsy Ross story is accepted by most Americans , some flag historians and revisionists do not  accept the बेट्सी रॉस डिज़ाइन as the  first American flag .
According to the traditional account , the  असली ध्वज थी बना in जून 1776 , जब a छोटी committee—including  George Washington , Robert Morris and relative George Ross —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag .
Betsy accepted the job to manufacture the flag , altering the committee 's design by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars   .
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable , the flag design is known to have been in use by 1777 ; Alfred B . Street described it at the surrender  of सामान्य burgoyne और  understood the circle of stars to represent equality among the American states .
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags known to exist ; while it is not the oldest surviving flag artifact in cloth form , its likeness appears on older physical relics , namely , the contemporary battlefield paintings by John Trumbull  and Charles  Willson Peale .
They depict the circular   star arrangement being flown from ship masts and many other places , and thus provide the first known historical documentation of the flag 's appearance .
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs uses the Betsy Ross flag to represent service to all veterans  इससे  the American Revolution to the present day .
The Betsy Ross design of 13-star US flags has been featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes  inaccurately , as  in Washington Crossing the Delaware ) and films , such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna .
The flag continues to be  एक  of the most popular symbols of the American Revolution .
A purr is a sound  made by all  species of felids and is a part of cat communication .
It  varies between बिल्लियों ( लिये  example by loudness and tone ) , and from species to species , but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing .
The term `` purring '' has been used liberally in literature , and it has been claimed  कि  viverrids ( civet , mongoose , genet ) , bears , badgers , hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr .
Other animals that have been said to purr are rabbits ,  squirrels  , guinea pigs , tapirs , ring-tailed lemurs , elephants , raccoons and gorillas while eating .
However , using a strict definition of purring that  continuous sound production must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( and usually go on for minutes  ) , Peters ( 2002 ) , in an exhaustive review of the scientific literature , reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets , Genetta tigrina , and most likely also Genetta genetta , had been documented to purr .
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic  स्तनधारी  endemic to eastern Australia , including Tasmania .
Together with the four species of echidna , it is one of the five extant species of monotremes , the only mammals that lay eggs  बजाय of giving जनम  .
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ) , though a number of related species have been found in the fossil  रिकार्ड  .
The unusual appearance  of  this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed , otter -footed mammal baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it , with some considering it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of  the few  venomous mammals , the male platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and  a recognisable and  iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
The platypus is   the animal emblem of the state of New South Wales .
Until the early 20th  century  , it was hunted for its fur , but it is now protected throughout its range .
Although  खिलाते प्रजनन  programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution , it is not under any immediate threat .
St. Elizabeth is a village in Miller County , Missouri ,   United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 336 at the 2010 census .
Wilton is a census-designated place ( CDP )  in  Sacramento County , California , United States .
It is part of the Sacramento – Arden-Arcade – Roseville  महानगर  Statistical Area .
The population  थी 5,363  at the 2010 census , up from 4,551 at the 2000 census .
In human-computer interaction , cut and paste and copy and paste are related  commands that offer a user-interface  interaction technique for transferring text , data , files or objects from a source to a destination .
सबसे  ubiquitously , users require the ability to cut and paste sections of plain text .
The  काटें कमांड removes the चयनित आंकड़ा इससे इसके असली स्थिति , जबकि the नक़ल कमांड creates a नकल ; in दोनो मामले the चयनित आंकड़ा is लगाई in a clipboard .
The data in the clipboard is later inserted in the position where the paste  कमांड is जारी .
the कमांड names  are an interface metaphor based on the physical procedure used in manuscript editing to create a page layout .
This interaction technique has close associations with related  techniques in  graphical user interfaces that use pointing devices such as a computer mouse ( by drag and drop , for example ) .
Economic order quantity is the order quantity that minimizes total inventory holding costs and  ordering  costs .
It is one of the oldest classical  उत्पादन  scheduling models .
The framework used to determine this order  quantity  is also known as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula .
The model was developed by Ford W. Harris in 1913 , but R. H. Wilson , a consultant who applied it extensively ,  is दिए क्रेडिट लिये उसके in-depth विश्लेषण  .
स्टीफन `` स्टीवी '' रे vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3 , 1954 – अगस्त 27 , 1990 ) थी an अमरीकी guitarist , singer-songwriter , और रिकार्ड निर्माता .
Often referred to by his initials SRV , Vaughan is best known as a founding member and leader of  दोगुना ट्रबल  .
Together with drummer Chris Layton and bassist Tommy Shannon , they ignited the blues  पुनरुद्धार  of the 1980s .
With a  career  spanning seven years , Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold .
He was born and raised in Dallas , Texas , and for a short period  of समय  lived in Graham , Texas .
As the younger brother of Jimmie  vaughan  , Vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs .
At age 17 , he   dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple Threat Revue , a band that eventually  विकसित into दोगुना ट्रबल  and regularly performed around Austin .
In  1982 , vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल performed at the montreux जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड , catching the ध्यान of संगीतकारों दाउद बोवी और जैक्सन browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his  आगामी  studio album Let 's Dance , while Browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album .
In March 1983 , Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran  रिकार्ड निर्माता जॉन हैमंड  Sr. and released their debut album , Texas Flood in June of that year .
After successful touring , the group released the albums , Could n't Stand the Weather ( 1984 ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ) , the latter of which featured  new  keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had progressed successfully , Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta , Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit  और  returned to touring with the band .
In June 1989 , In Step was released and earned them a Grammy Award for  बेहतरीन  Contemporary Blues Performance .
On August 27 , 1990 , Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following a  प्रदर्शन in  East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's uniquely eclectic yet intense   style was derived from a variety of musical genres .
He was influenced by blues musicians including Albert King , Freddie King , Otis Rush , and Muddy Waters , and rock guitarists  ऐसे  as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar playing reflected the  क्लासिक ब्लूज़  and pentatonic scales .
He has received wide critical recognition for his guitar playing , ranking at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100   Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial   statue was erected in Austin 's Auditorium Shores park .
Stevie  Ray  Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the state of Texas .
The Las  वेगास  Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated  नरम पेय बेची in स्टोर्स , रेस्तरां , और वेंडिंग मशीने in प्रत्येक देश मगर क्यूबा और उत्तर कोरियाई .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United  States  since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market  throughout the 20th  century .
The company produces  concentrate , जिससे is तब बेची  to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company ,  उपज  finished product in cans and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The  bottlers तब  sell , distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola  उद्यमों  , which is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda  स्रोतों  to major restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion  , introduced  other cola drinks under the Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola  Vanilla , and  special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand   2011 , Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
Barry Louis Larkin ( born April 28 , 1964 ) is a retired  प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल  player .
Larkin played shortstop for the Cincinnati  लाल  from 1986 to 2004 and was one of the pivotal players on the 1990 Reds ' World Series championship team .
Larkin was elected to the National Baseball Hall   of Fame in January 2012 and was inducted on July 22 .
Larkin is considered one of the top players of his era , winning nine Silver Slugger awards  और तीन  Gold Glove awards .
He was selected to the Major League All-Star Game twelve times , and was  निर्वाचित the 1995  National League Most Valuable Player .
Brasília ( ) is the  संघीय  capital of Brazil and the seat of government of the Federal District .
Administratively , the city is located in the Federal  ज़िला  which is in the Central-West Region .
physically , it  is located in the Brazilian Highlands .
It has a  जनसांख्यिकी of  about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate , making it the fourth largest city in Brazil .
However ,   as a metropolitan area , it ranks lower at sixth in population .
brasília is the  largest city in the world that did not exist at the beginning of the 20th century .
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among Latin American cities and the third  in  Brazil .
At around R $ 62,000  ब्राज़ीलियाई  reais ( equal to approximately $ 30,900 US dollars or €23,000 euros ) , the city 's per capita income is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities .
As the national capital , Brasília is the seat of all three  शाखाओं of the संघीय  government of Brazil .
the नगर  also hosts the headquarters of many Brazilian companies .
Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban areas , as well as building the city around large avenues and  dividing it into सेक्टर , have sparked a बहस और प्रतिबिंब  on life in big cities in the 20th century .
The city 's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as  sectors for specified activities ,  such as the Hotel Sector , the Banking Sector or the Embassy Sector .
Brasília hosts 124 foreign  embassies  .
The city was planned and developed in 1956 with Lúcio Costa as the principal urban  planner , Oscar Niemeyer as  the principal architect and Roberto Burle Marx as the landscape designer .
Brasilia is in the Unesco 's World Hertitage List due to its  वास्तुकला  .
On April 22  , 1960 , it formally became ब्राज़ील 's नेशनल पूंजी .
Viewed from above ,   the main portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly .
The city is   commonly referred to as Capital Federal , or simply BSB .
Residents of Brasília are known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those  नहीं born in  the city but who migrated there after it was established ) .
In local usage , the word  `` brasília '' प्रायः refers तभी to the पहला प्रशासनिक प्रदेश ( ra i ) भीतर the संघीय ज़िला ( distrito संघीय ) , जहाँ the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण सरकारी इमारतें हैं स्तिथ .
Brasília has a unique status in Brazil , as it is an administrative  प्रभाग  rather than a legal municipality like nearly all cities in Brazil .
Nationally , the term is almost always used synonymously with the Federal District ,  जिससे constitutes an indivisible federative ईकाई , analogous  to a state .
Several ``  satellite  cities '' exist which are also part of the Federal District .
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília , connecting the capital to all  प्रमुख ब्राज़ीलियाई  cities and many international destinations .
It is the third most important airport in  ब्राज़ील , in शर्तें of  passengers and aircraft movements .
Personifications of Germany , France , Russia , Austria-Hungary , and the United Kingdom   attempting to keep the lid on the simmering cauldron of imperialist and nationalist tensions in the Balkans to prevent a general European war .
They were   successful in 1912 and 1913 but did not succeed in in 1914 .
The causes of World War I , which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918 , included many factors , such as the conflicts and hostility of the four decades  अग्रणी up  to the war .
Militarism , alliances , imperialism , and nationalism played major roles in the   conflict as well .
the तात्कालिक origins of the युद्ध , however , lay in the निर्णय लिया by कूटनीतिज्ञों और सेनापतियों दौरान the संकट of 1914 , casus belli लिये जिससे थी the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड ( the archduke of ऑस्ट्रिया हंगेरियाई ) और उसके बीवी सोफी by gavrilo princip , an  irredentist Serb .
The crisis  came  after a long and difficult series of diplomatic clashes between the Great Powers ( Italy , France , Germany , the British Empire , the Austria-Hungarian Empire and Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high .
In turn these diplomatic clashes  can be  traced to changes in the balance of power in Europe since 1867 .
The more immediate cause for  the युद्ध  was tensions over territory in the Balkans .
Austria-Hungary competed with Serbia and Russia for territory and influence in the region and they pulled the rest of the Great Powers into the conflict through their  विभिन्न alliances  and treaties .
Although the chain of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the war , the war 's origins go deeper  , involving  national politics , cultures , economics , and a complex web of alliances and counterbalances that had developed between the various European powers since 1870 .
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of nationalism across Europe , unresolved territorial disputes , an intricate system of alliances , the perceived breakdown of the balance of power in Europe , convoluted and fragmented governance , the arms races of the previous decades , previous military planning , imperial and colonial rivalry for wealth , power and prestige , and economic and  सैन्य फंसने in उद्योग और व्यापार – e.g. , the सुअर युद्ध  between Austria and Serbia .
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that preceded the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g. , the German belief that the United Kingdom would remain neutral ) and delays and  misunderstandings in राजनयिक  communications .
The various  श्रेणी of स्पष्टीकरण  for World War I correspond to different historians ' overall methods .
Most historians and popular commentators include causes from more than one category of explanation to provide a  rounded account of the  causes of the war .
The deepest  भेद among  these accounts is between stories that see it as the inevitable and predictable outcome of certain factors , and those that describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake .
In attributing causes for the war , historians and academics had to deal  with an  unprecedented flood of memoirs and official documents , released as each country involved tried to avoid blame for starting the war .
Early releases of information by governments , particularly those released  लिये उपयोग by the `` आयोग on the  Responsibility of the Authors of the War '' were shown to be incomplete and biased .
In addition some  दस्तावेज़  , especially diplomatic cables between Russia and France , were found to have been doctored .
Even in later decades however , when much more information had been released , historians from the same culture have been shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of  the  war .
जॉनसन  's new chart of national emblems , published c. 1868 .
The large flags shown in the corners are the 37-star flag of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ) , the Royal  मानक of the संयुक्त किंगडम , the  Russian Imperial Standard , and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle .
Various other flags flown  by  ships are shown .
The Flag of Cuba is labelled ``  क्यूबन  ( so called ) `` .
The Chinese dragon on the Flag of China was drawn mistakenly as  a पश्चिमी  dragon .
A  नेशनल ध्वज is  a flag that symbolizes a country .
The flag is flown by the  सरकारी , लकिन  usually can also be flown by citizens of the country .
Both public and private buildings such  as  schools and courthouses may fly the national flag .
In some countries , the national flags are only flown from non-military   buildings on certain flag days .
There are three distinct types of national flag for use on land , and three for  उपयोग  at sea , though many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes all ) of these types of flag .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate  राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy  '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its  उत्पत्ति in the  issue of slavery , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers  किया  not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the  दक्षिण  's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln ,  opposed  expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln  won ,  but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक  President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration   would not initiate civil war .
Eight  बाकी  slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal   forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise , and both  पहलू  prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European  देशों  were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired  upon  Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave   states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border  राज्य और  established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was inconclusive in  1861–62  .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at   the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
lincoln  issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by  गर्मियाँ 1862 the  Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at   the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western  सफलताओं  led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman  drove ईस्ट to कैप्चर  Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
the संघ marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड , the confederate पूंजी .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's  आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at  Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the  earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the  टेलीग्राफ  , steamships , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all  foreshadowed  World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated  750,000 सैनिको और  an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all  दक्षिणी श्वेत  males aged 18–40 .
Norrie disease is a genetic disorder that primarily affects   the eye and almost always leads to blindness .
In addition to the congenital ocular symptoms , some patients suffer from a progressive hearing loss starting mostly in their 2nd decade of life , while another  portion  may be mentally challenged .
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts , leukocoria ( a condition  जहाँ the विद्यार्थियों appear श्वेत  when light is shone on them ) , along with other developmental issues in the eye , such as shrinking of the globe and the wasting away of the iris .
Around  30–50 % of उन्हें  will also have developmental delay/ mental retardation , psychotic-like features , incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities .
Most patients are born  साथ सामान्य  hearing ; however , the onset of hearing loss is very common in early adolescence .
About   15 % of the patients are estimated to develop all the features of the disease .
The disease affects almost only male infants at birth or soon  बाद जनम , क्युकी  the disease is inherited X-linked recessive .
Only in very rare  मामले  , females have been diagnosed with Norrie disease as well .
The exact incidence number is unknown ; only a few  सौ मामले  have been reported so far .
It is a very rare disorder that is not associated with any  विशिष्ट जातीय  or racial groups .
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by two or more  पार्टियों , प्रत्येक of जिसको  intends to create one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration  '' to create  `` mutuality of obligation . ''
प्रमाण of  some or all of these elements may be done in writing , though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct .
The remedy for breach of contract can be `` damages '' in the form of compensation  of money  or specific performance enforced through an injunction .
Both of these remedies  पुरस्कार the पार्टी  at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages , which are greater than mere reliance damages , as in promissory estoppel .
The   parties may be natural persons or juristic persons .
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that  कुछ होगा or  will not occur .
The word  वादा can be प्रयुक्त as  a legal synonym for contract , although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract , as when it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another , including differences in common law compared to civil law , the impact of received law , particularly from England in common law countries , and of law  संहिताबद्ध in क्षेत्रीय  legislation .
Regarding Australian  अनुबंध विधि लिये  example , there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition  वहीँ हैं 6 अंतरराष्ट्रीय  instruments or conventions which are applicable for international dealings , such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
ASP.NET is a server-side Web application framework designed for Web development to produce  डायनेमिक वेब  pages .
It was developed by Microsoft to allow programmers to build dynamic web   sites , web applications and web services .
It was first released in January 2002 with  संस्करण  1.0 of the .NET Framework , and is the successor to Microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP ) technology .
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language Runtime ( CLR ) , allowing programmers  to write  ASP.NET code using any supported .NET language .
The ASP.NET SOAP   extension framework allows ASP.NET components to process SOAP messages .
Lysergic acid diethylamide , abbreviated LSD or LSD-25 , also known as lysergide ( INN ) and  colloquially as acid , is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the  ergoline family , well known for its psychological effects which can include altered thinking processes , closed and open eye visuals , synesthesia , an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences , as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture .
It is used mainly as an entheogen , recreational drug , and as an  एजेंट in  psychedelic therapy .
LSD is non-addictive , is not known to cause brain damage , and has  अत्यधिक कम toxicity  relative to dose .
However , adverse psychiatric reactions such as anxiety , paranoia , and  delusions हैं  possible .
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938  इससे ergotamine , a रासायनिक  derived by Arthur Stoll from ergot , a grain fungus that typically grows on rye .
The short form `` LSD '' comes from its early code name LSD-25 , which is an  संक्षिप्त  for the German `` Lysergsäure-diethylamid '' followed by a sequential number .
LSD is sensitive to oxygen , ultraviolet light , and chlorine , especially in  समाधान  , though its potency may last for years if it is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature .
In pure form it is a colorless  , गंधहीन  , tasteless solid .
LSD is typically delivered orally , usually on a substrate such as absorbent blotter  paper  , a sugar cube , or gelatin .
In its liquid form , it can  भी be  administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection .
LSD is very potent , with 20–30 μg ( micrograms ) being   the threshold dose .
New experiments with LSD started in 2009 for  the पहला  time in 40 years .
Introduced by Sandoz Laboratories , with trade-name Delysid , as a drug with various psychiatric  uses in 1947 ,  LSD quickly became a therapeutic agent that appeared to show great promise .
in the 1950s , officials at the u.S. सेंट्रल प्रज्ञा एजेंसी ( सीआईए ) विचार the ड्रग might be लागू to दिमाग कंट्रोल और रासायनिक warfare ; the एजेंसी 's mkultra शोध कार्यक्रम propagated the ड्रग among यंग servicemen और विद्यार्थी .
The subsequent recreational use of the drug by youth culture in the  पश्चिमी संसार  during the 1960s led to a political firestorm that resulted in its prohibition .
Currently , a number of organizations—including the Beckley Foundation , MAPS , Heffter Research Institute and the Albert Hofmann Foundation—exist to fund , encourage and  निर्देशांक शोध  into the medicinal and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics .
The United  States Navy 's  Sea , Air , Land Teams , commonly known as the Navy SEALs , are the U.S. Navy 's principal special operations force and a part of the Naval Special Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command .
`` SEAL '' is always capitalized in reference to members of the Naval Special  warfare जातियाँ  .
The acronym is  निकला  from their capacity to operate at sea , in the air , and on land .
seals हैं पुरूष सदस्यों of the संयुक्त राज्य नेवी  .
an एक्सचेंज कार्यक्रम साथ the coast गार्ड , जिससे ग्रैजुएट तीन coast guardsmen as seals , थी निलंबित in 2011 .
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more  specifically  its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams .
Joint  Navy SEALs  and CIA operations go back to the famed MACV-SOG during the Vietnam War .
This cooperation still exists today and is seen in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan , and in the finding  और हत्या  of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan .
संसार जनसांख्यिकी estimates इससे 1800 to 2100 , आधारित on un 2010 projections ( रेड , नारंगी , ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक estimates ( ब्लैक  ) .
Actual recorded population figures  हैं  in blue .
According to the highest estimate , the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate , it may  मनाही to 6 अरब  .
The world population is the total number of  जीना  humans on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated to number billion by the United  States Census  Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12  ,  2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund , it reached this milestone on October  31 ,  2011 .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of  the  Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global population  increases  above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , and had declined   to 1.1 % by 2011 .
कुल सालाना births यहूद उच्चतम in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख , और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially निरंतर at उनके 2011 स्तर of 134 लाख , जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल , और हैं अपेक्षित to बढ़ाएँ to 80 लाख  per year by 2040 .
वर्तमान  projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth , stagnation , or  भी overall  decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth , citing the growing pressures on  the  environment , global food supplies , and energy resources .
Memphis is a city in the southwestern corner of the   U.S. state of Tennessee , and the county seat of Shelby County .
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw Bluff , south of the confluence of the Wolf and  मिसिसिपी  rivers .
Memphis had a population of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest city in the state of Tennessee , the largest city on the Mississippi River , the third largest in the Southeastern United States , and  the 20th largest in the  United States .
The greater Memphis metropolitan area , including adjacent counties in Mississippi  और अरकंसास ,  had a 2010 population of 1,316,100 .
This makes Memphis the second largest metropolitan area in Tennessee ,  surpassed तभी by  metropolitan Nashville , which has overtaken Memphis in recent years .
Memphis is the youngest of Tennessee   's major cities .
A resident of Memphis is referred to as a Memphian , and the Memphis  प्रदेश is  known , particularly to media outlets , as `` Memphis & The Mid-South `` .
the cattenom नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in फ़्रांस .
France produces around three quarters of its  विद्युत  by nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power  संयंत्र in  Germany .
चांसलर एंजेला मार्केल 's गठबन्धन घोषित on may 30 , 2011 , कि germany’s 17 नाभिकीय शक्ति स्टेशन होगा be shut bas by 2022 , in a नीति reversal following जापानी 's फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति .
Currently , 68  रिएक्टरों  are under construction in 15 countries .
नाभिकीय  power stations operate in thirty countries .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster , it was reported that an average of about 10   nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year , although according to the World Nuclear Association , of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As of June 2011 , Germany and Switzerland are phasing-out  नाभिकीय  power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark , Greece , Ireland , Italy , Latvia ,  liechtenstein , ध्वज , मलेशिया , माल्टा , नई  Zealand , Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power .
Skeletal muscles  होमो  sapiens
This is a  तालिका  of muscles of the human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal   muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as  अनेक मांसपेशियां  .
उदाहरण दायरा  from 640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human  देह  can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers to the action   of each muscle from the standard anatomical position .
In other positions , other actions may  be performed  .
A reenactment of a battle at Fort Foster , 1837 ( at Hillsborough River State   Park )
The Seminole Wars , also known as the Florida Wars , were three conflicts in Florida between the Seminole — the collective name given to the amalgamation of various groups of  देशी अमेरिकी और  Black people who settled in Florida in the early 18th century — and the United States Army .
The First Seminole  युद्ध थी इससे 1814 to 1819 ( हालांकि  sources differ ) , the Second Seminole War from 1835 to 1842 , and the Third Seminole War from 1855 to 1858 .
The first conflict with the Seminoles arose out of  तनाव  relating to General Andrew Jackson 's attack and destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816 .
Jackson also attacked the  स्पेनी  at Pensacola .
Ultimately , the Spanish Crown ceded the  उपनिवेश  to United States rule .
Orono is a town in Penobscot County , Maine , United  राज्य  .
It was first settled in 1774 and named in honor of Chief Joseph Orono of the Penobscot   Nation .
It is home to The  विश्वविद्यालयों of maine  .
The population was  10,362 at the  2010 census .
दृश्य  of the pyramid
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel   and casino on the Las Vegas Strip in Paradise , Nevada .
The 30-story hotel , owned and operated by  MGM Resorts  International , has a casino with over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games .
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation , it has a new , highly modernized  , and contemporary design and contains a  total of 4,400 rooms , including 442 suites , lining the interior walls of a pyramid style tower and within twin 22-story ziggurat towers that were built as later additions .
The hotel is named after the city of  लक्सर  ( ancient Thebes ) in Egypt .
Luxor is the second largest hotel in Las Vegas ( the largest being the MGM Grand ) and the   eighth largest in the world .
as of 2010 , the लक्सर रै a 4 कुंजी दरजा इससे the ग्रीन कुंजी eco-rating कार्यक्रम , जिससे evaluates `` चिरस्थायी '' होटल परिचालन .
A pilot experiment , also called a pilot study , is a small scale preliminary study conducted in order to evaluate feasibility , time , cost , adverse   events , and effect size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project .
Pilot studies , therefore , may not be appropriate  लिये मामला अध्ययन  .
the  Los Angeles Fire Department ( LAFD ) is the agency that provides fire protection and emergency medical services for the city of Los Angeles .
It may be unofficially referred to as the Los Angeles City Fire Department to distinguish it from the Los  एंजिल्स  County Fire Department .
The acre is a unit of area used in the imperial and U.S. customary  प्रणालियों  .
An acre is  परिचय  40 % of a hectare – slightly smaller than an American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although  a  few notable exceptions include the United States , Australia , Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010 , the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom , though is still used in real estate descriptions ) .
It is still used , to some extent , in   Canada .
The international  प्रतीक  of the acre is ac , and is defined as 1/640 of a square mile .
The most   commonly used acre today is the international acre .
In the United States   both the international acre and the slightly different US survey acre are in use .
The most common  उपयोग of  the acre is to measure tracts of land .
One international acre  is पारिभाषित  as 4046.8564224 square metres .
During the Middle Ages , an acre was the amount of land that could be  plowed in एक दिन साथ  a yoke of oxen .
pawnee initially refers to a देशी अमरीकी लोगों और इसके language:
Pawnee  लोगों
pawnee भाषा
Pawnee is also the name of several places in  the संयुक्त  States:
Pawnee ,  इलिनोइस
pawnee  , Kansas
pawnee  City , Nebraska
Pawnee ,  ओक्लाहोमा
Pawnee ,  टेक्सास
pawnee  National Grassland , Colorado
Pawnee  township  ( disambiguation )
Pawnee  काउंटी ( बहुविकल्पी  )
Pawnee may also  refer  to:
Piper PA-25 Pawnee , agricultural  वायुयान
Hiller VZ-1 Pawnee ,   experimental aircraft
Pawnee , Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional  सेटिंग  of the NBC television comedy Parks and Recreation .
Broca 's  और  Wernicke 's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human beings use words to communicate ideas and feelings  ,  and how such communications are processed and understood .
Thus it is how the brain creates and  understands  language .
सबसे हाल theories consider कि इस प्रक्रम is carried आउट entirely by और अंदर the दिमाग .
This is considered one of the most   characteristic abilities of the human species - perhaps the most characteristic .
However very little is known about it and there is huge scope for  शोध  on it .
Most of the knowledge acquired to  date on the subject  has come from patients who have suffered some type of significant head injury , whether external ( wounds , bullets ) or internal ( strokes , tumors , degenerative diseases ) .
Studies have shown that most of the language processing functions are carried out in the cerebral  cortex  .
The essential function of the cortical language areas is  सांकेतिक  representation .
Even though language  exists in  different forms , all of them are based on symbolic representation .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car , designed and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim  , France  by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super Sport version of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal production car  in  the world , with a top speed of .
the असली संस्करण रै a शीर्ष गति of .
It was named Car of the Decade (  2000–2009 ) by  the BBC television programme Top Gear .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car Driven All Year  पुरस्कार in  2005 .
On 6 April 2013 , Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse ,  reaching on औसत a शीर्ष गति  of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss , and the   exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen , with much of the engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A number of special variants have   been produced .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began offering prospective buyers  the ability to customize exterior  and interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website .
DVD is an optical disc storage format , invented   and developed by Philips , Sony , Toshiba , and Panasonic in 1995 .
DVDs offer higher storage capacity  than कॉम्पैक्ट discs जबकि  having the same dimensions .
Pre-recorded DVDs are  mass-produced  using molding machines that physically stamp data onto the DVD .
Such discs are known as DVD- ROM , because data can   only be read and not written nor erased .
Blank recordable DVD discs (  dvd-r और  DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then function as a DVD-ROM . Rewritable DVDs ( DVD-RW , DVD+RW , and DVD-RAM ) can be recorded and erased multiple times .
DVDs are used in  dvd-video उपभोक्ता डिजिटल वीडियो  format and in DVD-Audio consumer digital audio format , as well as for authoring AVCHD discs .
DVDs containing other types of information may be referred to as  dvd आंकड़ा  discs .
What Chilli Wants is an American reality series on VH1 starring  chilli , one-third of the  Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC .
The show chronicles Chilli 's quest to find love with the help of Tionna T.   Smalls , an author and relationship coach .
The series premiered on April 11 , 2010 , and has since been renewed for a  दूसरी  season .
The second season  premiered on  Sunday , January 2 , 2011 .
Peter Gene Hernandez ( born October 8 , 1985 ) , known by his stage name Bruno Mars , is an American   singer-songwriter and record producer .
Raised in Honolulu , Hawaii , by a family  of संगीतकारों  , Mars began making music at a young age and performed in various musical venues in his hometown throughout his childhood .
he ग्रैजुएट इससे ऊँची स्कूल और तब स्थानांतरित to लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , to pursue a musical  career .
Mars produced songs for other artists , joining production team  the  Smeezingtons .
मंगल था an unsuccessful  stint with Motown Records , but then signed with Atlantic in 2009 .
He became recognized as a solo artist after lending his vocals and  co-writing the hooks लिये  the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B , and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy .
He   also co-wrote the hits `` Right Round `` by Flo Rida featuring Ke $ ha , and `` Wavin ' Flag `` by K'naan .
In October 2010 , he released his debut album , Doo-Wops  &  Hooligans .
Anchored by the worldwide number-one singles `` Just the Way You Are `` and `` Grenade `` , the  एल्बम  peaked at number three on the Billboard 200 .
Mars was nominated for seven Grammys at the 53rd Grammy Awards , winning Best Male Pop Vocal Performance for  `` बस the रास्ता  You Are '' .
His second   studio album , Unorthodox Jukebox , was released on December 11 , 2012 .
Mars ' music is  विख्यात  for displaying a wide variety of styles and influences , and contains elements of many musical genres .
He has  worked  with an assortment of artists from various genres .
As a child , he was highly influenced by artists such as Little Richard , Elvis Presley and Michael Jackson and would often impersonate these artists   from a young age .
मंगल भी incorporates  reggae - and Motown -inspired sounds into his work .
Worldwide , Mars became the  best-selling  digital artist in 2011 .
He had three singles in the top ten ,  सहित  first place with `` Just the Way You Are '' , which sold 12.5 million copies .
Mars won Best  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Male Solo Artist at the 2012 BRIT Awards .
Bruno Mars has sold 6 million albums and 40 million singles   worldwide as a singer .
Althought as a song-writer , producer and singer his total single download sales   surpass 100 million worldwide .
Bust of Zeus ,  otricoli ( sala रोटोंडा  , Museo Pio-Clementino , Vatican ) .
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks , concerning their gods and heroes , the nature of the world , and the origins and  significance  of their own cult and ritual practices .
It was a part of the religion in ancient Greece and is part of religion in modern Greece and around the  संसार ,  known as Hellenismos .
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious and political institutions of Ancient Greece and  its civilization , and to gain  understanding of the nature of myth-making itself .
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a  विशाल संग्रहण  of narratives , and implicitly in Greek representational arts , such as vase-paintings and votive gifts .
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins  of the  world , and details the lives and adventures of a wide variety of gods , goddesses , heroes , heroines , and mythological creatures .
These accounts initially  were disseminated in an  oral-poetic tradition ; today the Greek myths are known primarily from Greek literature .
The oldest known Greek  literary  sources , Homer 's epic poems Iliad and Odyssey , focus on events surrounding the Trojan War .
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod , the Theogony and the Works  और दिनों , contain खाते of the उत्पत्ति of the संसार ,  the succession of divine rulers , the succession of human ages , the origin of human woes , and the origin of sacrificial practices .
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric  hymns , in fragments of एपिक कविताएं of the  Epic Cycle , in lyric poems , in the works of the tragedians of the fifth century BC , in writings of scholars and poets of the Hellenistic Age , and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias .
Archaeological findings provide a principal  सोर्स  of detail about Greek mythology , with gods and heroes featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts .
Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth century BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as  खूब as the adventures  of Heracles .
In the succeeding Archaic , Classical , and  hellenistic अवधि  , Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear , supplementing the existing literary evidence .
Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture , arts , and  साहित्य of पश्चिमी  civilization and remains part of Western heritage and language .
Poets and artists  from  ancient times to the present have derived inspiration from Greek mythology and have discovered contemporary significance and relevance in the themes .
Mouth  &  MacNeal in 1971
Mouth  &  MacNeal was a pop duo from the Netherlands .
They are best known for their million selling   recording of `` How Do You Do `` .
The Boise  State Broncos football  program represents Boise State University in college football and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference .
They are currently led by head coach Chris   Petersen and play their home games at Bronco Stadium .
The franc ( sign : Fr .  or sfr . ; जर्मनी : franken , फ्रेंच और romansh  : franc , Italian : franco ; code : CHF ) is the currency and legal tender of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia .
Although not formally legal tender in the German exclave Büsingen ( the sole legal currency is the euro ) , it is in  चौड़ी रोज़ उपयोग  there .
The Swiss   National Bank issues banknotes and the federal mint Swissmint issues coins .
The Swiss franc is the only version of the  फ़्रैंक  still issued in Europe .
The smaller denomination , a  hundredth of a फ़्रैंक , is a rappen ( rp . ) in जर्मनी  , centime ( c. ) in French , centesimo ( ct. ) in Italian , and rap ( rp . ) in Romansh .
The ISO code of the currency used by banks and financial institutions is CHF , although `` Fr  . '' is  used by most businesses and advertisers ; some use SFr . ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica .
Given  the  different languages used in Switzerland , Latin is used for language-neutral inscriptions on the coins .
सर चार्ल्स  Spencer `` Charlie '' Chaplin , ( 16 April 188925 December 1977 ) was a British comic actor and filmmaker who rose to fame in the silent era .
Chaplin became a worldwide  प्रतीक through  his screen persona `` the Tramp `` and is considered one of the most important figures of the film industry .
उसके करियर spanned अधिक than 75 सालो , इससे a चाइल्ड in the विक्टोरियन era to बंद to उसके मौत at the आयु of 88 , और encompassed दोनो adulation और विवाद .
Raised in London , Chaplin 's  बाल्यकाल थी  defined by poverty and hardship .
He was sent to a workhouse twice before the age of nine  ; his father was absent  , and his mother was committed to a mental asylum .
Chaplin began performing from a young age , touring music halls and later working  as a स्टेज कर्ता  and comedian .
At  19 he थी हस्ताक्षरित to the prestigious फ्रेड karno कम्पनी , जिससे took उसे to अमेरिका .
Chaplin was scouted by the film industry , and made his first appearances in 1914   with Keystone Studios .
He soon developed the Tramp  persona और formed  a large fan base .
Chaplin directed his films from an early stage , and continued to hone his craft as he moved to the Essanay ,  परस्पर  , and First National corporations .
by 1918 , he थी एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध मेन in the संसार  .
In 1919  , चैपलिन co-founded  the distribution company United Artists , giving him complete control over his films .
His first feature-length picture was The Kid  ( 1921 ) ,  followed by A Woman of Paris ( 1923 ) , The Gold Rush ( 1925 ) , and The Circus ( 1928 ) .
He refused to move to sound films  in the 1930s  , instead producing City Lights ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue .
Chaplin became increasingly political and his next film , The Great Dictator ( 1940 ) , satirised Adolf  हिटलर  .
The 1940s was a decade marked with controversy for  चैपलिन , और उसके  popularity declined rapidly .
He was accused of communist   sympathies , while his involvement in a paternity suit and marriages to much younger women were considered scandalous .
An FBI investigation was opened on Chaplin , and  he was  eventually forced to leave the United States and settle in Switzerland .
He abandoned the Tramp for his later films , which include Monsieur Verdoux ( 1947 ) , Limelight ( 1952  ) , A King in  New York ( 1957 ) , and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ) .
Chaplin   wrote , directed , produced , edited , scored , and starred in most of his films .
He was a perfectionist , and his  वित्तीय  independence meant he often spent years on the development and production of a picture .
His films are characterised by slapstick combined with pathos , and often feature the   Tramp struggling against adversity .
Many contain social and political themes , as well  as autobiographical  elements .
In  1972 , as भाग  of a renewed appreciation for his work , Chaplin received an Honorary Academy Award for `` the incalculable effect he has had in making motion pictures the art form of this century '' .
He continues  to be held in high  regard , with The Gold Rush , City Lights , Modern Times , and The Great Dictator often ranked among the greatest films of all time .
Planned Parenthood Federation of America ( PPFA ) , commonly  shortened to  Planned Parenthood , is the U.S. affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood Federation ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members .
ppfa is  a non-profit organization providing reproductive health and maternal and child health services .
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund , Inc. (  ppaf ) is a सम्बन्धित संगठन  which lobbies for pro-choice legislation , comprehensive sex education , and access to affordable health care in the United States .
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. provider of reproductive health services , including cancer screening , HIV screening and  counseling ,  contraception , and abortion .
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's total services and abortions account for  3 % ; PPFA  conducts roughly 300,000 abortions each year , among 3 million people served .
The organization has its roots in Brooklyn   , New York , where Margaret Sanger opened the country 's first birth-control clinic .
Sanger founded the American Birth Control League  in 1921 ,  which in 1942 became part of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America .
Since then , Planned  Parenthood  has grown to have over 820 clinic locations in the U.S. , with a total budget of US $ 1 billion .
PPFA provides an array of services to over three million people in the United States , and supports services  लिये over एक लाख  clients outside the United States .
Mens rea is Latin for  `` अपराधी  mind '' .
In criminal law , it is viewed  as  one of the necessary elements of some crimes .
The standard common law test of criminal liability is usually expressed in the Latin phrase , actus non facit reum nisi mens sit rea , which means `` the act is not culpable unless  the mind is guilty ''  .
Thus , in jurisdictions with due process , there must be an actus reus  , or `` अपराधी अधिनियम , '' accompanied  by some level of mens rea to constitute the crime with which the defendant is charged ( see the technical requirement of concurrence ) .
As a general rule , criminal liability does not attach  to a  person who acted with the absence of mental fault .
The   exception is strict liability crimes .
In civil law , it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective  दिमागी तत्व to स्थापित  liability for breach of contract or tort , for example .
However , if a tort is intentionally committed or a contract is intentionally breached , such intent may increase the scope of liability as well as the measure of damages   payable to the plaintiff .
Therefore , mens rea refers to the mental element of the offence that accompanies the actus reus   .
In some  jurisdictions  , the terms mens rea and actus reus have been replaced by alternative terminology .
In Australia , for example , the elements   of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` mental elements '' ( mens rea ) and `` physical elements '' or `` external elements '' ( actus reus ) .
This terminology   was adopted to replace the obscurity of the Latin terms with simple and accurate phrasing .
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27 , 1822 – July 23 , 1885 ) was the 18th President of the United States ( 1869–1877 ) following his highly successful role as a war general  in the  second half of the Civil War .
Under Grant , the Union Army defeated the Confederate military ; having effectively ended the war and secession with the surrender of  रॉबर्ट E. ली  's army at Appomattox .
As president he led the Radical Republicans in their effort to eliminate all vestiges of  confederate  nationalism and slavery .
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and having  desired to protect  African American citizenship , President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871 .
Grant was the first President to establish Civil Service reform having created a two-year federally funded   Civil Service Commission in 1871 .
In terms of foreign policy , Grant revealed an `` unexpected capacity  for  deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest .
His   reputation was marred by his repeated defense of corrupt appointees , and by America 's first industrial age economic depression ( called the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second term .
Although his Republican Party split in 1872 with reformers denouncing him , Grant was  easily  reelected .
By 1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained control  of every state in the  South and as he left the White House in March 1877 his policies were being undone .
A career soldier , he graduated from the United  राज्य सैन्य  Academy at West Point and served in the Mexican–American War .
When the Civil War began in 1861 , Grant trained Union volunteer  regiments in  Illinois .
In 1862 , as a general he fought a series of battles and was promoted to major general after forcing the surrender of a large Confederate army  and  gaining control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee .
He then  led संघ  forces to victory after initial setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh , earning a reputation as an aggressive commander .
in जुलाई 1863 , बाद a long , जटिल अभियान , ग्रान्ट पराजित पाँच uncoordinated confederate सेना ( capturing एक of उन्हें ) और जब्त vicksburg  .
This famous victory gave the Union full control of the Mississippi River , split off the western Confederacy , and opened  the way for more  Union triumphs .
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863  ,  President Abraham Lincoln made him lieutenant general and commander of all of the Union Armies .
As commanding general of the army , Grant confronted Robert E. Lee in a series of very bloody battles in 1864 known as the Overland Campaign that  ended  with the bottling up of Lee at Petersburg , outside the Confederate capital of Richmond .
During the siege , Grant coordinated a series of devastating   campaigns launched by William Tecumseh Sherman , Philip Sheridan , and George Thomas .
Finally breaking through Lee 's trenches , the Union Army  captured  Richmond in April 1865 .
Lee surrendered his depleted forces  to ग्रान्ट at  Appomattox as the Confederacy collapsed .
Although pro-Confederate  इतिहासकारों attacked ग्रान्ट as a निष्ठुर  butcher who won by brute force , most historians have hailed his military genius .
Grant 's two consecutive terms as President  stabilized  the nation after the American Civil War and during the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed .
As president , he enforced   Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights laws and fighting Ku Klux Klan violence .
Grant won passage of the Fifteenth Amendment ;   giving constitutional protection for African-American voting rights .
He used the army  to निर्माण the रिपब्लिकन  Party in the South , based on black voters , Northern newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` ) and native white supporters ( `` Scalawags . '' )
As a result , African Americans were represented  in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस लिये the पहला  time in American history in 1870 .
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by having broken the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress , the creation  of the  Board of Indian Commissioners to make reform recommendations , and his enlistment of Quaker Protestants who controlled mid western Indian agencies , that effectively curbed Congressional patronage .
Grant remained   determined in keeping Indians from being exterminated from white settler encroachment or by the U.S. military .
Grant 's  reputation  as president by 1875 was at an all-time high for his previous veto of the Inflation Bill , the passage of the Resumption of Specie Act , and Secretary Bristow 's successful raids that shut down the Whiskey Ring .
Grant 's foreign policy ,  led  by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , implemented International Arbitration , settled the Alabama Claims with Britain and avoided war with Spain over the Virginius Affair .
A jukebox is a partially automated music-playing device , usually  a  coin-operated machine , that will play a patron 's selection from self-contained media .
The classic  jukebox  has buttons with letters and numbers on them that , when entered in combination , are used to play a specific selection .
A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example urine , hair , blood , sweat , or oral fluid / saliva  – to determine the उपस्थिति  or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites .
Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of performance enhancing steroids  in खेल or लिये दवाएँ निषिद्ध by कानून  , such as cannabis , cocaine and heroin .
A `` 10-panel urine screen '' consists of the  following:
Amphetamines (  सहित methamphetamine  )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids ( thc )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( Codeine , Morphine  , Heroin  , Oxycodone , Hydrocodone , etc . )
phencyclidine  ( PCP )
propoxyphene
Saturn  v प्रक्षेपास्त्र  , used for the American manned lunar landing missions
Space  खोजी  is the discovery and exploration of outer space by means of space technology .
Physical exploration of space is conducted both by human  spaceflights  and by robotic spacecraft .
While the observation of objects in space , known as astronomy , predates reliable recorded history , it was the development of large and relatively efficient rockets during the early 20th century that allowed   physical space exploration to become a reality .
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing scientific research , uniting different nations , ensuring the future survival of humanity and  विकासशील सैन्य और रणनीतिक  advantages against other countries .
Various criticisms  of  space exploration are sometimes made .
Space  खोजी रै प्रायः  been used as a proxy competition for geopolitical rivalries such as the Cold War .
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` Space Race `` between the Soviet Union and the United States , the launch of the first man-made object to orbit the Earth , the USSR 's Sputnik 1 , on 4 October 1957 , and the first Moon landing by the American Apollo 11 craft on 20 July 1969 are often taken as the   boundaries for this initial period .
The Soviet space program achieved many of the first milestones , including the first living being in orbit in 1957 , the first human spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin aboard Vostok 1 ) in 1961 , the first spacewalk ( by Aleksei Leonov ) on 18 March 1965 , the first automatic landing on another  celestial  body in 1966 , and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971 .
After the first 20 years of exploration ,  फ़ोकस shifted इससे  one-off flights to renewable hardware , such as the Space Shuttle program , and from competition to cooperation as with the International Space Station ( ISS ) .
With the substantial completion of the ISS following STS-133 in March 2011 , plans for space  खोजी by the  USA remain in flux .
Constellation  , a Bush  Administration program for a return to the Moon by 2020 was judged inadequately funded and unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009 .
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus on the development of the capability for crewed missions beyond low earth orbit ( LEO ) , envisioning extending the operation of the ISS beyond 2020 , transferring the development of launch vehicles for human crews from NASA to the private sector , and developing technology to  enable मिशन to परे leo , ऐसे as earth/moon l1 , the चंद्रमा , earth/sun l2 , near-earth क्षुद्रग्रह , और phobos  or Mars orbit .
as of कूच 2011 , the us सीनेट और हाउस of प्रतिनिधि हैं स्टिल working towards a सुलह नासा funding विधेयक , जिससे होगा संभवतः terminate नक्षत्र और निधि विकास of a भारी  lift launch vehicle ( HLLV ) .
In the 2000s , the People 's Republic of China initiated a successful manned  spaceflight कार्यक्रम  , while the European Union , Japan , and India have also planned future manned space missions .
China , Russia , Japan , and India have advocated  मानवयुक्त मिशन to the चंद्रमा दौरान  the 21st century , while the European Union has advocated manned missions to both the Moon and Mars during the 21st century .
From the 1990s onwards , private interests began promoting space tourism and then private space exploration of the  चंद्रमा ( देखिए google  Lunar X Prize ) .
John Calvin Coolidge , Jr. ( July 4 , 1872January 5 , 1933 ) was the 30th President of the United States  (  1923–1929 ) .
A Republican lawyer from Vermont  , Coolidge  worked his way up the ladder of Massachusetts state politics , eventually becoming governor of that state .
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust him into the national spotlight and gave him a reputation as a man of  निर्णायक  action .
Soon after , he was elected as the 29th Vice President in 1920 and succeeded to the Presidency upon the sudden death of   Warren G. Harding in 1923 .
Elected in his own right in 1924 , he gained a reputation as a small-government conservative , and also as a  man जो कहा  very little .
Coolidge restored public confidence in the White House after the scandals of his   predecessor 's administration , and left office with considerable popularity .
As a Coolidge biographer put it , `` He embodied the spirit and hopes of the middle class , could interpret their  longings और एक्स्प्रेस  their opinions .
That he did  represent the प्रतिभाशाली  of the average is the most convincing proof of his strength . ''
Some later criticized  कूलिज as भाग  of a general criticism of laissez-faire government .
उसके प्रतिष्ठा underwent a पुनर्जागरण दौरान the रोनाल्ड reagan प्रशासन , लकिन the परम मूल्यांकन of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी is स्टिल विभाजित between those जो स्वीकृति of उसके कटौती of the आकार of सरकारी कार्यक्रम और those जो मानना the संघीय सरकारी चाहिए be अधिक शामिल in regulating और controlling  the economy .
Espresso is a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a small amount of nearly boiling water under pressure  through  finely ground coffee beans .
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than coffee brewed by  अन्य विधि , a उच्चतर विशेषज्ञता of निलंबित  and dissolved solids , and crema ( meaning cream , but being a reference to the foam with a creamy texture that forms as a result of the pressure ) .
As a result of the pressurized brewing  प्रक्रम the जायका  and chemicals in a typical cup of espresso are very concentrated .
Espresso is the base for other drinks , such  as a latte , कापुचीनो  , macchiato , mocha , or americano .
Espresso has more caffeine per unit volume than most beverages , but the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso has 80 to 150 mg of caffeine , little less than  the 95 to 200 mg of a मानक 240 ml ( 8 us  fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee .
Brian Keith Kelly ( born October 25 ,  1961 ) is  an American football coach and former player .
He is  फिलहाल  the head football coach for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish , a position he has held since December 2009 .
Kelly was previously head coach at Grand Valley State University ( 1991–2003  ) , सेंट्रल मिशिगन  University ( 2004–2006 ) , and University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ) .
A contract is  an अनुबंध having a lawful ऑब्जेक्ट डाला into voluntarily by दो or अधिक पार्टियों , प्रत्येक of जिसको intends to बनाएँ एक or अधिक विधिक दायित्वों between उन्हें .
The elements of a  अनुबंध हैं `` प्रस्ताव '' और  `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of obligation . ''
Proof of some or all of these   elements may be done in writing , though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct .
the उपाय लिये उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति '' in the रूप of मुआवजे of धन or विशिष्ट प्रदर्शन enforced through an आदेश .
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages , which are greater than mere reliance  क्षतिपूर्ति , as in promissory  estoppel .
The parties may be  प्राकृतिक  persons or juristic persons .
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or will  not  occur .
the शब्द  promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract , although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract , as when it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from one  क्षेत्राधिकार to another , सहित  differences in common law compared to civil law , the impact of received law , particularly from England in common law countries , and of law codified in regional legislation .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example , there are 40 relevant acts  जिससे प्रभाव on  the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable for international dealings , such as the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale  of  Goods .
Sidney Patrick Crosby , ONS ( born August 7 , 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice hockey  player who is  captain of the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
crosby थी drafted पहला overall by the penguins आउट of the क्यूबेक प्रमुख जूनियर हॉकी लीग ( qmjhl  ) .
During his two-year major junior  करियर साथ the  Rimouski Océanic , he earned back-to-back CHL Player of the Year awards and led his club to the 2005 Memorial Cup final .
nicknamed `` the अगला एक `` , he थी एक of the सबसे अत्यधिक regarded ड्राफ्ट चयन in हॉकी इतिहास , अग्रणी अनेक to refer to the 2005 ड्राफ्ट लॉटरी as the `` sidney crosby sweepstakes '' .
In his first NHL season , Crosby finished sixth in league scoring with 102 points ( 39 goals , 63 assists ) and was a runner-up for the  calder मेमोरियल ट्रॉफी ( जीती by  Alexander Ovechkin ) .
By his second season , he led the NHL with 120 points ( 36 goals , 84 assists ) to capture  the आर्ट रॉस  Trophy , becoming the youngest player and the only teenager to win a scoring title in any major North American sports league .
That same season , Crosby also won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey Writers Association 's choice for most valuable  खिलाड़ी और the लेस्टर  B. Pearson Award as the NHL Players Association 's choice for most outstanding player , becoming the seventh player in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year .
Crosby started the 2007–08  season with the  team 's captaincy and subsequently led them to the 2008 Stanley Cup Finals , where they were defeated by the Detroit Red Wings in six games .
The Penguins returned to the Finals against Detroit the following year and won in seven games ; Crosby became the youngest captain in NHL history to  जीत the  Stanley Cup .
In the 2009–10 season , Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals , tying him with Steven Stamkos for the Rocket Richard Trophy as the league-leader ; with 58 assists , he totaled  109 अंक , दूसरी in the एनएचएल  .
During  the off-season  , Crosby received the Mark Messier Leadership Award .
In 2010–11 , Crosby sustained a concussion as a result of hits to the  सिर in back-to-back  games .
The  चोट  left him sidelined for ten and a half months .
However , after playing eight games in the   2011–12 season , Crosby 's concussion-like symptoms returned in December 2011 , and he did not return until mid-March 2012 .
Internationally , Crosby has represented Canada in numerous tournaments for the country 's  जूनियर और  men 's teams .
After competing in the 2003 U-18 Junior World Cup , he  represented कनाडा  in back-to-back IIHF World U20 Championships , winning silver in 2004 and gold in 2005 .
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship , he led the tournament in  स्कोरिंग , जबकि  also earning Top Forward and All-Star Team honours .
Four years later , Crosby was named to Team Canada for the 2010 Winter Olympics in  वैंकूवर  .
Playing the United States in the gold medal game , he scored the game-winning  goal  in overtime .
A  संयुक्त  States cent , also known as a penny .
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its longer  संस्करण `` put my दो सेंट in '' is an संयुक्त राज्य ( us ) idiomatic अभिव्यक्ति , लिया इससे the असली अंग्रेज़ी मुहावरा अभिव्यक्ति : to put in `` my दो कौड़ी लायक '' or `` my tuppence लायक . ''
It is used  to preface the अंतरिम  stating of one’s opinion .
by विरोधात्मक the राय to follow – suggesting इसके मान is तभी दो सेंट , a बहुत छोटी राशि – the उपयोक्ता of the phrase उम्मीदें to lessen the प्रभाव of a संभवतः बयान , प्रर्दशित politeness और  humility .
However , it is also sometimes  used  with irony when expressing a strongly felt opinion .
The phrase is also used out of   habit to preface uncontentious opinions .
For  example:
The Chinese  सिविल युद्ध थी  a civil war in China fought between forces loyal to the government of the Republic of China led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of China ( CPC ) .
The war began in April 1927 , amidst the Northern Expedition , and essentially ended when major active  लड़ाइयों ceased  in 1950 .
The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states , the Republic of China ( ROC ) in Taiwan and the People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) in mainland China , both  claiming to be the legitimate सरकारी  of China .
The war represented an  वैचारिक विभाजित (  Left vs . Right ) between the Communist CPC , and the KMT 's brand of Nationalism .
The civil war continued intermittently until  लेट  1937 , when the two parties formed a Second United Front to counter a Japanese invasion .
China 's  full-scale  civil war resumed in 1946 , a year after the end of hostilities with Japan .
After four more years , 1950 saw the cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly founded  People 's  Republic of China controlling mainland China ( including Hainan ) , and the Republic of China 's jurisdiction being restricted to Taiwan , Penghu , Quemoy , Matsu and several outlying islands .
The  kuomintang शिकस्त is attributed  to several factors : Corruption - Chiang wrote in his diary on June 1948 that the KMT had failed , not because of external enemies but because of rot from within .
Strong   initial support from the U.S. diminished , and then , stopped .
( Partly because of KMT corruption and anti-democratic regime , and partly because of the uncertain U.S. foreign policy towards Communism between 1945 and 1950 ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland  from their landlords  .
This ensured   PLA popular support .
After the surrender of Japan at the end of World War II , Soviet   forces turned over their captured Japanese weapons to the CPC and allowed the CPC to take control of territory in Manchuria .
To this day , no armistice or peace treaty has ever been signed , and it is  debated  as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended .
Cross-Strait  संबंध have महरूम hindered by  military threats and political and economic pressure , particularly over Taiwan 's political status , with both governments officially adhering to a `` One-China policy . ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory and  continues to threaten the आरओसी साथ a सैन्य आक्रमण  if the ROC officially declares independence by changing its name to and gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan .
The ROC mutually claims mainland  चीन  , and they both continue the fight over diplomatic recognition .
Today , the war as such occurs on the political and economic fronts in the form of cross-Strait relations ; however , the two separate de facto states have close  आर्थिक  ties .
The One Hundred Twelfth United States Congress was the meeting of the legislative branch of the United States federal government , from January 3 ,  2011  until January 3 , 2013 .
It convened in Washington , D.C. on January 3 , 2011 , and ended on January 3 , 2013 , 17 days before  the समाप्त of the  presidential term to which Barack Obama was elected in 2008 .
Senators elected to regular terms in 2006 completed those terms in this  कॉंग्रेस  .
This Congress included the last House of Representatives elected   from congressional districts that were apportioned based on the 2000 census .
In the 2010 midterm elections  ,  the Republican Party won the majority in the House of Representatives .
While the Democrats kept their Senate majority , it was reduced  इससे the  previous Congress .
This was the first Congress in which the House and Senate were controlled by different  parties since  the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ) , and the first Congress to begin that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ) .
In this Congress , the House of Representatives had the largest number of Republican members , 242 , since the  80th  Congress ( 1947–1949 ) .
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the Kennedy family served , as well as the most  नीतियां polarized कॉंग्रेस  since Reconstruction , with record low approval ratings .
Wealth in the United States is commonly measured in terms  of  net worth , which is the sum of all assets , including home equity , minus all liabilities .
The total net worth  of us households  and nonprofit organizations 1945–2009 , unadjusted for inflation or population change .
For example , a household in possession of an $ 800,000 house , $ 5,000 in mutual funds , $  30,000 in cars , $  20,000 worth of stock in their own company , and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000 .
Assuming that this household would have a $ 250,000 mortgage , $ 40,000 in car loans , and $ 10,000 in credit card  कर्ज़ , इसके debts  would total $ 300,000 .
Subtracting the debts from the worth of this household 's assets ( 900,000  - $ 300,000  = $ 600,000 ) , this household would have a net worth of $ 600,000 .
Net worth can vary with fluctuations in value of the  underlying  assets .
The wealth  —more  specifically , the median net worth—of households in the United States is varied with relation to race , education , geographic location and gender .
As one would expect , households with greater income feature  the उच्चतम  net worths , though high income can not be taken as an always accurate indicator of net worth .
overall the  number of wealthier households is on the rise , with baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers .
In addition , wealth is unevenly distributed , with the wealthiest 25 % of US households owning 87 % of the wealth in the United States , which was $  54.2  trillion in 2009 .
Including human capital such  as  skills , the United Nations estimated the total wealth of the United States in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion .
This article deals with Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy ( SDR ) rather than the rhizotomy procedures  लिये पीड़ा राहत ; लिये those  procedures , which have begun to take the name `` rhizotomy '' in certain instances , see facet rhizotomy and similar .
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the spinal cord , most often to relieve the symptoms of neuromuscular   conditions such as spastic diplegia and other forms of spastic cerebral palsy .
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the main use of rhizotomy for neurosurgeons specialising in spastic CP since the 1980s ; in this surgery , the spasticity-causing  nerves हैं पृथक और तब targeted और नष्ट  .
The sensory nerve roots , where spasticity is located , are first separated from the motor ones , and the nerve fibres to be cut are then identified via electromyographic  उत्तेजनाओं  .
The ones producing spasticity  हैं तब selectively  lesioned with tiny electrical pulses .
In spasticity , rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the damaged nerves that don’t receive gamma amino butyric acid , which is the core problem for people  साथ spastic दिमागी palsy  .
These over-firing , non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity during the EMG testing phase in SDR and are thus considered to be the source of the patient 's hypertonia ; they are eliminated with the electrical pulses once identified , while the remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the  सही संदेश  remain fully intact and untouched .
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved , and that this is done without affecting nervous system sensitivity or  फलन in अन्य क्षेत्रों , क्युकी  the only nerves destroyed are the over-firing ones responsible for the muscle tightness .
The terms rhizotomy and neurotomy are also increasingly  बनने interchangeable  in the treatment of chronic back pain from degenerative disc disease .
This is a procedure called a facet rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is  बजाय  done on an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body .
Such radio frequency nerve lesioning results in five to eight or more months of pain relief before the nerve  regenerates और  another round of the procedure needs to be performed .
A facet rhizotomy is just one of  many different forms of  radiofrequency ablation , and its use of the `` rhizotomy '' name should not be confused with the SDR procedure .
Migrant workers in California   , 1935
the पद migrant कार्यकर्ता रै अलग आधिकारिक meanings और connotations in अलग भाग of the संसार  .
The United Nations ' definition is broad , including any people working outside of their  home country  .
The term can also be used to describe someone who migrates within a country , possibly their own , in order to  pursue  work such as seasonal work .
फोटोग्राफ  of Lil Wayne with teardrop tattoos below his eyes .
The teardrop tattoo or tear tattoo is  a  symbolic tattoo that is placed underneath the eye .
It has no fixed  अर्थ  but almost all meanings ( see below ) have some connection to prison .
u.S. रूट 75 is a north–south u.S. राजमार्ग  .
The  राजमार्ग 's उत्तरी टर्मिनस is in kittson काउंटी , मिनेसोटा , at the कनाडाई किनारा , जहाँ it एकबार जारी as मनिटोबा राजमार्ग 75 on the अन्य पक्ष of the now-closed किनारा क्रासिंग .
Its southern terminus is at  अंतरराज्यीय 30 और अंतरराज्यीय  45 in Dallas , Texas , where it is known as North Central Expressway .
U.S. 75 was a  border-to-border  route , from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico at Galveston , Texas .
However , the entire segment south of  Dallas  , Texas has been decommissioned in favor of Interstate 45 , a cutoff section of town-to-town surface road having become State Highway 75 .
निम्नतर नवीं वार्ड is a पड़ोस of the नगर of नई ऑरलियन्स  .
As the name implies , it  is भाग of  the Ninth Ward of New Orleans .
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the entire area within New Orleans downriver of the Industrial Canal ; however , the City Planning Commission  divides इस क्षेत्रफल into  the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods .
The term `` Lower '' refers to its location farther towards the mouth of the Mississippi River , `` down '' or `` below ''  the  rest of the city in local geographic terminology .
But the 9th Ward , like  सब wards in नई ऑरलियन्स  , is a voting district .
The 9th Ward was added as a voting  ज़िला  in 1852 .
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1 , 2 , 4 ,  और 7 जिससे मेक up  the Holy Cross Area and Ward 9 Districts 3 , 5 , 6 , and 8 .
Higher voting district numbers in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on the  upriver  side of the Industrial Canal .
The area came to national attention for its devastation in the aftermath of Hurricane  कैटरीना  in 2005 .
Hubble views of Copernicus  crater ( इनसेट  ) , which is about 58 miles ( 93 km ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon , as seen from Earth during  a lunar eclipse  , where the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural satellite of the Earth ,  और the पांचवां largest  satellite in the Solar System .
It is the largest natural satellite of a planet in the Solar System relative to the size of its primary , having 27 % the diameter and 60 % the density of  धरती  , resulting in its mass .
The Moon is the second densest satellite  बाद io ,  a satellite of Jupiter .
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth , always showing the same  फेस साथ इसके  near side marked by dark volcanic maria that fill between the bright ancient crustal highlands and the prominent impact craters .
It is  the brightest ऑब्जेक्ट  in the sky after the Sun , although its surface is actually very dark , with a reflectance similar to that of coal .
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases have , since  प्राचीन टाइम्स  , made the Moon an important cultural influence on language , calendars , art and mythology .
The Moon 's gravitational influence produces the ocean tides and the  मिनट lengthening of  the day .
The Moon 's current orbital distance , about thirty times the diameter of the Earth , causes it to appear almost the same size in the sky as the Sun , allowing it to cover the Sun nearly precisely  in  total solar eclipses .
This matching  of apparent  visual size is a coincidence .
The Moon 's linear distance from the Earth is currently increasing at a rate of 3.82±0.07cm per  साल , लकिन इस रेट is नहीं निरंतर  .
The Moon is thought to  have formed  nearly 4.5 billion years ago , not long after the Earth .
Although there have been several hypotheses for its origin in the past , the current most widely accepted explanation is that the Moon formed  इससे the मलबा बाएँ  over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body .
The Moon is the only celestial body other than Earth on which humans   have set foot .
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the United States ' NASA Apollo program achieved the only manned missions  to date  , beginning with the first manned lunar orbiting mission by Apollo 8 in 1968 , and six manned lunar landings between 1969 and 1972 , with the first being Apollo 11 .
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar rocks , which have been used to develop a geological understanding of the Moon 's origins , the   formation of its internal structure , and its subsequent history .
After the  अपोलो 17  mission in 1972 , the Moon has been visited only by unmanned spacecraft , notably by the final Soviet Lunokhod rover .
Since  2004 , जापानी , चीन ,  India , the United States , and the European Space Agency have each sent lunar orbiters .
These spacecraft have contributed to  confirming the डिस्कवरी  of lunar water ice in permanently shadowed craters at the poles and bound into the lunar regolith .
Future manned missions to the Moon  have  been planned , including government as well as privately funded efforts .
The Moon remains , under the Outer Space Treaty , free to all nations to explore for peaceful  उद्देश्य  .
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ; February 6 ,  1911 –  June 5 , 2004 ) was the 40th President of the United States ( 1981–1989 ) .
Prior to that , he was the 33rd Governor of California  (  1967–1975 ) , and a radio , film and television actor .
Born in Tampico ,  इलिनोइस , और उठाया  in Dixon , Reagan was educated at Eureka College , earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology .
बाद graduating , reagan स्थानांतरित पहला to आयोवा to कार्य as a रेडियो प्रसारणकर्ता और तब , in 1937 , to लॉस एंजिल्स जहाँ he began a करियर as an कर्ता , पहला in films और बाद टेलीविज़न  .
Some of his most notable films include Knute Rockne ,  सब अमरीकी ( 1940  ) , Kings Row ( 1942 ) , and Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ) .
Reagan served as President of the Screen  Actors  Guild and later as a spokesman for General Electric ( GE ) ; his start in politics occurred during his work for GE .
Originally a member of  the लोकतांत्रिक  Party , his positions began shifting rightward in the 1950s , and he switched to the Republican Party in 1962 .
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry Goldwater 's  अध्यक्षीय उम्मीदवारी in 1964  , he was persuaded to seek the California governorship , winning two years later and again in 1970 .
He was defeated in his run for the Republican presidential nomination in 1968 and in 1976 , but won both the nomination and general election in  1980 , defeating लाज़िम  Jimmy Carter .
As president , Reagan  implemented sweeping  new political and economic initiatives .
His supply-side economic policies , dubbed `` Reaganomics `` , advocated reducing tax rates to spur economic growth , controlling the money supply to  reduce महंगाई  , deregulation of the economy , and reducing government spending .
In his first term he survived an assassination attempt , took a hard line   against labor unions , announced a new War on Drugs , and ordered an invasion of Grenada .
He was re-elected in a landslide in 1984 ,  proclaiming  that it was `` Morning in America `` .
His second term was primarily marked by foreign matters , such as the ending of the Cold War , the 1986 bombing of Libya , and the revelation of the  iran-contra  affair .
Publicly describing the Soviet  Union as an  `` evil empire `` , he supported anti-communist movements worldwide and spent his first term forgoing the strategy of détente by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR .
Reagan negotiated with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev , culminating in the INF Treaty   and the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan left office   in 1989 .
In 1994 , the former president disclosed that he had been diagnosed with Alzheimer 's disease earlier in the year ; he died ten  years later at the age  of 93 .
A conservative icon , he ranks highly in public opinion polls of U.S. Presidents and is credited for generating an ideological renaissance on the  अमरीकी  political right .
Complete set of scrolls , constituting  the संपूर्ण  Tanakh .
the tanakh ( , or ; भी tenakh , tenak , tanach ) is a नाम प्रयुक्त in judaism लिये the canon of the यहूदी बाइबल  .
The Tanakh is also known as the Masoretic  टेक्स्ट  or the Miqra .
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '' , also known as the Five Books of Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' )  —hence  TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ) , meaning `` that which is read '' , is an alternative Hebrew term for  the  Tanakh .
The books of the Tanakh  यहूद  relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation , called the Oral Torah .
The Kawasaki Ninja ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc class sport   motorcycle .
It was introduced in 1995 , and has been constantly updated throughout the years in response to  नई उत्पाद इससे होंडा , suzuki ,  and Yamaha .
The ZX series is what was known as the Ninja line of Kawasaki motorcycles in the 1980s and still carries   the name today .
Assassination attempts and plots on Presidents of the United  States have been  numerous : more than 20 attempts to kill sitting and former presidents , as well as the Presidents-elect , are known .
Four  बैठे राष्ट्रपतियों have महरूम मारे : अब्राहम lincoln ( the 16th अध्यक्ष ) , जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड ( the 20th अध्यक्ष ) , विलियम mckinley ( the 25th अध्यक्ष ) और जॉन F. कैनेडी ( the 35th अध्यक्ष ) .
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : former President Theodore Roosevelt ( the 26th President  ) , और  President Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ) .
Although the historian J.W . Clarke has suggested that most  अमरीकी  assassinations were politically motivated actions , carried out by rational men , not all such attacks have been undertaken for political reasons .
Some attackers had  questionable  mental stability , and a few were judged legally insane .
Since  the वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य रै लिये अधिक than a सदी महरूम निर्वाचित इससे the वही राजनैतिक पार्टी as the अध्यक्ष , the हत्या of the अध्यक्ष is असंभावित to परिणाम in प्रमुख नीति परिवर्तन .
This may explain why political  समूह  typically do not make such attacks .
Where the Red Fern Grows is a novel written by Wilson Rawls in 1961 about a boy who buys and trains two Redbone Coonhound  hunting  dogs .
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga :  gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a राज्य  located in West South Central United States .
Oklahoma is the 20th  सबसे extensive  and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma , meaning `` red people '' , and it is known informally by its nickname , The  sooner राज्य  .
Formed by the  संयोजन of ओक्लाहोमा territory और भारतीय territory on नवम्बर 16 , 1907 , ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th राज्य to डालें the संघ .
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or ,  informally  `` Okies '' , and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City .
A major producer of natural gas , oil , and agriculture , Oklahoma relies on an economic base  of aviation ,  energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the  स्वदेश , रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in  per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth .
Oklahoma  City  and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors , with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas .
With small mountain ranges , prairie , mesas , and eastern forests , most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains and  the U.S . Interior Highlands —a  region especially prone to severe weather .
In addition to having a prevalence  of English ,  German , Scottish , Irish and Native American ancestry , more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a route for cattle drives , a destination for  southern settlers  , and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans .
Redwall , by Brian Jacques , is a  श्रेणी  of children 's fantasy novels .
It is the title of the first  किताब of the श्रेणी , प्रकाशित in 1986 , as खूब as the नाम of the ऐबी प्रदर्शित in the किताब और the नाम of an एनिमेटेड tv श्रेणी आधारित on तीन of the novels ( redwall , mattimeo , और मार्टिन the योद्धा ) , जिससे पहला aired in 1999 .
The books are primarily aimed at older children , but  have  fans of all ages .
There have been  twenty-two  novels and two picture books published .
The twenty-second , and  फाइनल , अनोखा  , The Rogue Crew , was posthumously released on May 3 , 2011 .
Natural Gas is usually measured by volume in the United States and is stated in  घन फीट  .
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas needed  to fill a  volume of one cubic foot under set conditions of pressure and temperature.To measure larger amounts of natural gas , a `` therm '' is used to denote 100 cubic feet , and `` mcf '' is used to denote 1,000 cubic feet .
To provide greater accuracy in comparing fuels , energy content  is  measured in terms of `` British Thermal Units ( BTU 's ) . ''
A BTU is the amount of heat required  to raise one  pound of water ( approximately a pint ) , one degree Fahrenheit at or close to its point of maximum density .
One British therm ( symbol thm ) is a  non- si ईकाई  of heat energy equal to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ) .
It is approximately the energy  equivalent  of burning 100 cubic feet ( often referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas .
चूंकि ( प्राकृतिक गैस ) मीटर माप आवाज़ और नहीं उर्जा सामग्री , a therm फ़ैक्टर is प्रयुक्त by ( प्राकृतिक ) गैस कंपनियाँ to बदलें the आवाज़ of गैस प्रयुक्त to इसके ऊष्मा समतुल्य , और यूँ गणना  the actual energy use .
The therm factor  is  usually in the units therms/CCF .
It will vary with the mix of hydrocarbons in the natural  गैस  .
Natural gas with a higher than average concentration of ethane ,  प्रोपेन or ब्यूटेन  will have a higher therm factor .
Impurities , such  as  carbon dioxide or nitrogen , lower the therm factor .
The volume of the gas is calculated as if measured at  मानक  temperature and pressure ( STP ) .
The heat content of  प्राकृतिक गैस is solely  dependent on the composition of the gas , and is independent of temperature and pressure .
One therm is equal to about 105.5 megajoules ,  25,200  kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours .
One therm can also  be  provided by about of natural gas .
The therm  sometimes  has been confused with the thermie ( see below ) .
The names of both units come from  the यूनानी शब्द  for heat .
A thermie ( th ) is a metric unit of heat energy , part of  the meter-tonne-second  system sometimes used by European engineers .
The  thermie is बराबर to the राशि  of energy required to raise the temperature of 1 tonne of water by 1 °C .
The thermie is equivalent  to  1,000 kilocalories , 4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 BTU .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared  उनके secession  and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery  , especially  the extension of slavery into the western territories .
विदेशी शक्तियां  did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000  सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट  much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding  slavery  into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration  on  March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming  republicans  rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's  inaugural पता घोषित  his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states continued to  अस्वीकृत  calls for secession .
Confederate forces  जब्त  numerous federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise , and   both sides prepared for war .
The  confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य of अमेरिका .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon  फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट  held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined  the Confederacy ,  bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a  नवल  blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The  पूर्वी थिएटर  was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
the पतझड़ 1862 confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam , dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप  .
lincoln जारी the emancipation उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य .
to the वेस्ट , by गर्मियाँ 1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी , तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी नदी .
In 1863   , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S.  ग्रान्ट कमांड  of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta  and  marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the  overland  Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The  defending  Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the  earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced weapons were  employed  extensively .
The  mobilization  of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the  deadliest  war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian   John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28 , 1949 ) is a former U.S. track and field athlete , motivational speaker , socialite ,  टेलीविज़न  personality and businessman .
He won the gold medal  लिये decathlon  in the Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics .
Following his Olympic win and the related  recognition , he  married Kris Kardashian , and his professional career evolved into being a television celebrity .
By 1981  , he had  starred in several made-for-TV movies and was Erik Estrada 's replacement on the top rated TV series CHiPs .
he  has six children : Burt , Casey , Brandon , Brody , Kendall and Kylie .
Since his 1991  marriage  to Kris Jenner , he is the stepfather to Kourtney , Kim , Khloe and Rob Kardashian .
Since 2007 , he has appeared with his blended family on  keeping  Up with the Kardashians .
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly  abbreviated  E. coli ) is a Gram-negative , rod-shaped bacterium that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ) .
Most  E. कोलाई strains हैं हानिरहित , लकिन कुछ serotypes can कारण गंभीर खाना विषाक्तता in इंसानो , और हैं occasionally जिम्मेदार लिये उत्पाद recalls due to खाना संदूषण .
The harmless strains are part of the normal flora of the gut , and can benefit their hosts  by  producing vitamin K2 , and by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine .
E. coli and related bacteria constitute about 0.1 % of  gut flora  , and fecal–oral transmission is the major route through which pathogenic strains of the bacterium cause disease .
Cells  हैं समर्थ to जीवित बाहर  the body for a limited amount of time , which makes them ideal indicator organisms to test environmental samples for fecal contamination .
वहीँ  is , however , a growing body of research that has examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for extended periods outside of the host .
The bacterium can also be grown easily and inexpensively in a laboratory setting , and has been intensively investigated for over  60  years .
E. coli is the most widely studied prokaryotic model organism , and an important species in the fields of biotechnology  and microbiology ,  where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA .
Area code 217 is the North American telephone area code for much of western and  central  Illinois .
The 217 area includes  इलिनोइस ' पूंजी ,  Springfield , plus Champaign , Urbana , Decatur , Danville , Quincy , and Rantoul .
217 was one of the original   area codes , which were created in 1947 .
The only  significant  change in 217 's boundaries was in 1957 , when its northern portion was combined with part of area code 815 to form area code 309 .
Image of the  largest  Antarctic ozone hole ever recorded ( September 2006 ) , over the Southern pole
Layers of the  माहौल  ( not to scale )
Ozone depletion  describes two  distinct but related phenomena observed since the late 1970s : a steady decline of about 4 % per decade in the total volume of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ) , and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions .
The latter phenomenon is referred   to as the ozone hole .
In addition to these well-known stratospheric phenomena , there are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion   events .
the विवरण of ध्रुवीय  ozone hole formation differ from that of mid-latitude thinning , but the most important process in both is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens .
the प्रमुख सोर्स of ये हैलोजन अणु in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( cfcs , freons , halons ) .
These compounds are transported into   the stratosphere after being emitted at the surface .
Both types of  ozone  depletion were observed to increase as emissions of halo-carbons increased .
CFCs and other contributory substances are  referred  to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ) .
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's atmosphere , observed and projected decreases in ozone have generated worldwide concern   leading to adoption of the Montreal Protocol that bans the production of CFCs , halons , and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane .
It is suspected that a variety of biological consequences such as increases in skin cancer , cataracts , damage to plants , and reduction of plankton populations in the ocean 's photic zone may result from the increased UV exposure due to  ओज़ोन depletion .
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief introductory statement of the  Constitution 's  fundamental purposes and guiding principles .
It states in general terms , and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of , the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the  संयुक्त राज्य  .
As the phrase , `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most  broadly in the divide between republicanism और  social democracy .
Czechoslovakian shot putter Plihan at the 1957 East German  अंदर एथलेटिक्स  Championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a  track और  field event involving `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a pushing motion ) a heavy spherical object —the shot—as far as possible .
The shot put competition for men has been a part of the  आधुनिक ओलंपिक चूंकि उनके  revival in 1896 , women 's competition began in 1948 .
Map of the United Nations ( UN ) member states , with their territories ( including dependent territories  )  recognized by the UN in blue
There are United Nations ( UN ) member states , and each of them is a member  of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सामान्य  Assembly .
The criteria for admission of new members are set out in the United Nations Charter , Chapter II ,   Article 4:
A recommendation for admission from the Security Council  requires affirmative मत इससे  at least nine of the council 's fifteen members , with none of the five permanent members voting against .
The Security   Council 's recommendation must then be subsequently approved in the General Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote .
In principle , only sovereign states can become UN members , and currently all UN members are sovereign states ( although a few members were not sovereign   when they joined the UN ) .
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly , a number of states that may be considered sovereign states according to the Montevideo Convention criteria are not members because the UN does not consider  them to possess  sovereignty , mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members .
In addition to the member  states , the  UN also invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy See and Palestine ) , intergovernmental organizations , and other international organizations and entities whose statehood or sovereignty are not precisely defined , to become observers at the General Assembly , allowing them to participate and speak , but not vote , in General Assembly meetings .
The Eiffel Tower ( , ) is an iron lattice tower located on the Champ de Mars in Paris , named after the engineer Gustave Eiffel , whose company designed and  निर्मित  the tower .
Erected in 1889 as the entrance  मेहराब to the 1889 संसार 's मेला , it  has become both a global cultural icon of France and one of the most recognizable structures in the world .
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris and the most-visited paid monument in the  world ; 7.1 million  people ascended it in 2011 .
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to public in the European Union and the highest in Europe as long as the  मंच of the  Ostankino Tower , at , remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000 .
The tower received its   250 millionth visitor in 2010 .
The tower stands tall , about the same height as an  81-storey  building .
दौरान इसके निर्माण  , the Eiffel Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the title of the tallest man-made structure in the world , a title it held for 41 years , until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930 .
Because of the addition , in 1957 , of the antenna atop  the Eiffel  Tower , it is now taller than the Chrysler Building .
Not including broadcast antennas , it is the second-tallest structure in France , after the  millau  Viaduct .
The tower has three  स्तर  for visitors .
Tickets can be purchased to  ascend , by  stairs or lift ( elevator ) , to the first and second levels .
The walk from ground level to the first  स्तर  is over 300 steps , as is the walk from the first to the second level .
The third and highest level is accessible only by lift—stairs do exist but are   usually closed to the public .
The first and second levels have  रेस्तरां  .
The  मीनार  has become the most prominent symbol of both Paris and France , often in the establishing shot of films set in the city .
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings III ( born May 23 , 1974 ) is an American game show  प्रतियोगी  and author .
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest winning streak on the  U.S. syndicated  game show Jeopardy !
and as being   the all-time leading money winner on American game shows .
in 2004  , Jennings won 74 Jeopardy !
games before he was defeated  by चैलेंजर  Nancy Zerg on his 75th appearance .
His total   earnings on Jeopardy !
are $ 3,172,700 , consisting of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins ,  a $ 2,000 second-place  prize in his 75th appearance , a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions , as well as half of a $ 300,000 prize  in  the IBM Challenge .
During his  पहला  run of Jeopardy !
appearances , Jennings earned the  रिकार्ड लिये  the highest American game show winnings .
उसके कुल थी surpassed by ब्रैड rutter , जो पराजित जेनिंग्स in the फाइनल of the jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first aired on May 25 , 2005 ) , adding $ 2,000,000  to Rutter  's existing Jeopardy !
winnings  .
Jennings regained the record  बाद appearing on  several other game shows , culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first  aired on अक्तूबर  10 , 2008 ) , though Rutter retains the Jeopardy !
record   .
After his success on Jeopardy ! , Jennings wrote about his experience and explored American trivia history and culture in his book Brainiac : Adventures in the Curious , Competitive ,  बाध्यता संसार of ट्रिविया buffs  , published in 2006 .
The Canadian Football League or CFL ( ' [ LCF ] in  फ्रेंच )  is a professional sports league located in Canada .
The CFL is the highest level of competition in Canadian football , a form of  gridiron  football closely related to American football .
Its eight current teams ,  which are located in  eight separate cities , are divided into two divisions of four teams each — the East Division and the West Division .
The league 's 19-week regular season runs from late June to early November ; each team plays 18 games with one  bye  week .
Following the regular season , the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the fourth place team in one division has a better record than the third place team in the other division , when the team with the better record makes the playoffs and `` crosses over '' to the other division 's playoff )  compete in the लीग 's three-week डिवीजनल  playoffs , which culminate in the late-November Grey Cup championship , the country 's largest annual sports and television event .
The CFL was officially founded on January 19 , 1958 , making it the second oldest gridiron football  लीग in उत्तर अमेरिका स्टिल in  operation , although all its teams long predate the modern formation of the league .
It is the highest level of  खेल  in Canadian football , the most popular football league in Canada , and the second-most popular major sports league in Canada , after the National Hockey League .
हालांकि बर्फ हॉकी is कनाडा 's सबसे लोकप्रिय खेल , the cfl रै increased the लोकप्रियता of कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल in क्यूबेक और पश्चिमी कनाडा  .
Canadian football is also played at amateur levels ( i.e . youth , high school , CJFL , QJFL , CIS and senior leagues such as the  अलबर्टा फ़ुटबॉल लीग  ) .
The 2010s will be a significant decade for  the cfl in  terms of growth , as teams have renovated , expanded stadiums , or plan to build entirely new stadiums .
The  मॉन्ट्रियल अलॉतेस  accomplished this first , adding 5,000 seats to Percival Molson Memorial Stadium in time for the 2010 CFL season .
The Edmonton Eskimos and Calgary   Stampeders also renovated their respective stadiums and facilities for the 2010 season .
In 2011 , the BC Lions played under a new , retractable roof in BC Place after spending one and a  हाफ सीज़न at साम्राज्य फ़ील्ड  .
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will play in  an  entirely new stadium at the University of Manitoba , scheduled to open in time for the 2013 season .
The   Hamilton Tiger-Cats , Saskatchewan Roughriders and the new Ottawa franchise are also looking at new or extensively-renovated stadiums in the following years .
There are also hopes of expanding the league to Atlantic Canada ( ideally basing a team in  either the अधिक  populated Halifax , or the more centralized Moncton ) , as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton .
According  to sports historian  Douglas Brei , the Canadian Football League holds the distinction of being the only professional sports league in North America , major or minor league , in which each existing franchise has won at least one league title while in their current location .
Each  एंटीबॉडी  binds to a specific antigen ; an interaction similar to a lock and key .
An antibody ( Ab ) , also known as an immunoglobulin ( Ig ) , is a large Y-shaped protein produced by B-cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria  and  viruses .
The antibody recognizes a unique part of  the  foreign target , called an antigen .
प्रत्येक टिप of the `` y '' of an एंटीबॉडी contains a paratope ( a ढांचा analogous to a ताला ) कि is विशिष्ट लिये एक particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a कुंजी ) on an प्रतिजन , allowing ये दो structures to bind साथ साथ परिशुद्धता  .
Using this  बाइंडिंग यांत्रिकी , an एंटीबॉडी  can tag a microbe or an infected cell for attack by other parts of the immune system , or can neutralize its target directly ( for example , by blocking a part of a microbe that is essential for its invasion and survival ) .
The production of  antibodies  is the main function of the humoral immune system .
Antibodies are secreted by a type of white blood cell called   a plasma cell .
Antibodies can occur in two physical forms , a soluble form that is secreted  इससे the कोशिका ,  and a membrane -bound form that is attached to the surface of a B cell and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ) .
The BCR is only found on the surface  of B cells and  facilitates the activation of these cells and their subsequent differentiation into either antibody factories called plasma cells , or memory B cells that will survive in the body and remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure .
In most cases , interaction of the B cell with a T helper cell is  जरुरी to  produce full activation of the B cell and , therefore , antibody generation following antigen binding .
Soluble antibodies  हैं released  into the blood and tissue fluids , as well as many secretions to continue to survey for invading microorganisms .
antibodies हैं glycoproteins belonging to the immunoglobulin superfamily ; the शर्तें एंटीबॉडी और immunoglobulin हैं प्रायः प्रयुक्त interchangeably  .
antibodies  are typically made of basic structural units—each with two large heavy chains and two small light chains .
There are several  अलग प्रकार of  antibody heavy chains , and several different kinds of antibodies , which are grouped into different isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess .
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals , which perform different roles , and help  सीधा the उचित प्रतिरक्षा जवाब  for each different type of foreign object they encounter .
Though the general structure of all antibodies is very similar , a small region at the tip of the protein is extremely variable , allowing millions of antibodies with slightly different tip structures , or antigen binding sites  , to exist  .
इस प्रदेश is ज्ञात as the hypervariable प्रदेश .
Each of these variants can bind to a  अलग  antigen .
This  enormous  diversity of antibodies allows the immune system to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens .
The large and diverse population of antibodies is  उत्पन्न by यादृच्छिक  combinations of a set of gene segments that encode different antigen binding sites ( or paratopes ) , followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene , which create further diversity .
Antibody genes also re-organize in a process called class switching that changes the base of the heavy chain to another , creating a different isotype of the antibody that retains the antigen specific   variable region .
This allows a single antibody to be used by several  अलग  parts of the immune system .
The symbol used by the Zodiac Killer  to sign  his correspondence
The Zodiac Killer  थी  a serial killer who operated in Northern California in the late 1960s and early 1970s .
the कातिल 's पहचान remains अनजान .
The Zodiac murdered victims in Benicia , Vallejo , Lake  berryessa , और सैन  Francisco between December 1968 and October 1969 .
Four men and three women between the ages  of 16 और 29  were targeted .
The killer originated the name `` Zodiac '' in a series of taunting letters sent to the local  Bay  Area press .
ये  letters included four cryptograms ( or ciphers ) .
Of the four cryptograms sent , only one has   been definitively solved .
Suspects have been  named  by law enforcement and amateur investigators , but no conclusive evidence has surfaced .
In April 2004 , the San Francisco Police  Department marked the case ``  inactive '' , yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007 .
The case also remains open in the city of Vallejo , as  खूब as in  Napa County and Solano County .
The California Department of Justice has maintained an open case file on the Zodiac  हत्याएं चूंकि 1969  .
Jennings is a small city in and  the  parish seat of Jefferson Davis Parish , Louisiana , United States , near Lake Charles .
The population was 10,383 at the 2010 census  , a छोटी मनाही इससे  the 2000 tabulation .
the  city is 68 percent white .
Jennings is the  प्रिंसिपल  city of the Jennings Micropolitan Statistical Area , which includes all of Jefferson Davis Parish .
It is  भी भाग of the  larger Lake Charles-Jennings Combined Statistical Area .
nanotechnology  ( sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the manipulation of matter on an atomic and molecular scale .
The  earliest  , widespread description of nanotechnology referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products , also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology .
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National Nanotechnology Initiative , which defines nanotechnology as the manipulation of matter with at   least one dimension sized from 1 to 100 nanometers .
This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantum-realm scale , and so the definition shifted from a particular  technological  goal to a research category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold .
It is therefore common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies  '' as well as ``  nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the broad range of research and applications whose common trait is size .
Because of the variety of potential applications ( including industrial and  सैन्य )  , governments have invested billions of dollars in nanotechnology research .
Through its National Nanotechnology Initiative , the USA has invested  3.7 अरब डॉलर  .
The European  Union  has invested 1.2 billion and Japan 750 million dollars .
Nanotechnology as defined by size is naturally  बहुत व्यापक , सहित फ़ील्ड  of science as diverse as surface science , organic chemistry , molecular biology , semiconductor physics , microfabrication , etc .
The  संबद्ध शोध और अनुप्रयोग हैं बराबर विविध , ranging इससे एक्सटेंशन of conventional यंत्र भौतिकी to completely नई approaches आधारित upon आणविक self-assembly , इससे विकासशील नई सामग्री साथ आयाम on the nanoscale to सीधा कंट्रोल of पदार्थ on the परमाणु स्केल .
वैज्ञानिकों फिलहाल बहस the भविष्य implications of nanotechnology  .
Nanotechnology may  be  able to create many new materials and devices with a vast range of applications , such as in medicine , electronics , biomaterials and energy production .
On the other hand , nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as any new technology , including concerns about the toxicity and environmental   impact of nanomaterials , and their potential effects on global economics , as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios .
These concerns have led to a debate among advocacy groups and governments on whether special regulation  of nanotechnology  is warranted .
मैप  of the Eastern Bloc
The term Eastern  Bloc  or Communist Bloc refers to the former communist states of Central and Eastern Europe , generally the Soviet Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact .
The terms Communist Bloc and Soviet Bloc were also used to denote groupings of states aligned with the Soviet Union , although  ये शर्तें might शामिल  states outside Central and Eastern Europe .
The New Jersey gubernatorial election of 2009  took प्लेस  on November 3 , 2009 .
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running for a second term and was being challenged by Republican Chris Christie  , स्वतंत्र  Christopher Daggett and nine others , in addition to several write-in candidates .
Christie won the election , with about  48.5 प्रतिशत of the  vote , to 44.9 percent for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett .
Christie won the largest margin for a first term   Republican since 1969 .
Christie assumed office on January 19  ,  2010 .
This was the first election to fill the newly created   office of Lieutenant Governor .
The candidates  लिये  governor and lieutenant governor were joined together as a single choice , so that voters did not have the opportunity to split the ticket .
Kim Guadagno , Christie 's running mate , became New Jersey 's first lieutenant governor following her inauguration   .
Health  परवाह in  the United States is provided by many distinct organizations .
Health care facilities are largely owned and operated by private sector  व्यवसायों  .
Health insurance for public sector employees is primarily  provided by the सरकारी  .
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending comes from programs such as Medicare , Medicaid ,  TRICARE , the  Children 's Health Insurance Program , and the Veterans Health Administration .
Most of   the population under 65 is insured by their or a family member 's employer , some buy health insurance on their own , and the remainder are uninsured .
Of 17  high-income देशों  studied by the National Institutes of Health in 2013 , the United States was at or near the bottom in infant mortality , heart and lung disease , sexually transmitted infections , adolescent pregnancies , injuries , homicides , and rates of disability .
Together , such issues place the   U.S. at the bottom of the list for life expectancy .
On average , a U.S. male can be expected to live almost four fewer years than those in the top-ranked  देश  .
According  to the  World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the United States spent more on health care per capita ( $ 7,146 ) , and more on health care as percentage of its GDP ( 15.2 % ) , than any other nation in 2008 .
The Commonwealth Fund ranked the United States last in the  विशेषता  of health care among similar countries , and notes U.S. care costs the most .
The U.S. Census Bureau reported that 49.9 million residents , 16.3 % of the population , were uninsured in 2010 ( up from 49.0 million residents  , 16.1 % of the population ,  in 2009 ) .
A 2004  संस्थान  of Medicine ( IOM ) report said : `` The United States is among the few industrialized nations in the world that does not guarantee access to health care for its population . ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` With the exception of Mexico , Turkey ,  और  the United States , all OECD countries had achieved universal or near-universal ( at least 98.4 % insured ) coverage of their populations by 1990 . ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health insurance causes roughly 48,000  अनावश्यक  deaths every year in the United States .
In 2007 , 62.1 % of filers  लिये bankruptcies  claimed high medical expenses .
A 2013 study found that about 25 % of all senior citizens declare bankruptcy due to  चिकित्सा  expenses , and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence .
on कूच 23 , 2010 , the रोगी सुरक्षा और सस्ती परवाह अधिनियम ( ppaca ) became विधि , providing लिये प्रमुख परिवर्तन in स्वास्थ्य बीमे  .
In physiology , body water is the water content of  the  human body .
A significant  भिन्न  of the human body is water .
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the total amount of water in a man of average weight ( 70 kilograms ) is approximately 40  लीटर  , averaging 57 percent of his total body weight .
In a newborn infant , this may be as high as 75 percent of the body weight , but it progressively decreases from birth to old age , most of the decrease occurring  दौरान the पहला 10 सालो  of life .
Also , obesity decreases the percentage of water in the body ,  sometimes to as कम as 45 प्रतिशत  '' .
These  आंकड़े हैं सांख्यिकीय averages , so हैं illustrative , और जैसे सब biostatistics , होगा vary साथ बाते जैसे प्रकार of जनसांख्यिकी , आयु और क्रमांक of लोगों sampled , और methodology .
So there is not ,  और can नहीं be ,  a figure that is exactly the same for all people , for this or any other physiological measure .
For example , Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy & Physiology for Nurses gives a figure of 60 % for  the proportion of body-weight  attributable to water , which approximates Guyton 's 57 % .
In diseased states where body water is affected , the compartment or compartments that have changed can give clues to the  प्रकृति  of the problem .
Body water is regulated by hormones , including anti-diuretic hormone ( ADH ) , aldosterone and atrial natriuretic  पेप्टाइड  .
Per Netter 's Atlas of Human Physiology , body water is broken down into the  following  compartments:
Intracellular fluid (  2/3 of  body water ) .
Per   Guyton , in a body containing 40 litres of fluid , about 25 litres is intracellular , which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ) , close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb .
Jackson 's texts states 70 % of  देह  fluid is intracellular .
extracellular  fluid ( 1/3 of body water ) .
Per Guyton 's illustration , for a 40 litre body , about 15 litres   is extracellular , which amounts to 37.5 % Again , this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here .
प्लाज्मा (  1/5 of extracellular fluid ) .
Per Guyton  's उदाहरण , of the 15 लीटर of extracellular द्रव , प्लाज्मा आवाज़ averages 3 लीटर .
This amounts to 20 % , the  वही  as per Netter 's Atlas .
अंतरालीय  fluid ( 4/5 of extracellular fluid )
Transcellular fluid ( a.k.a . `` third space , '' normally  उपेक्षित  in calculations )
contained अंदर अंगों , ऐसे as the जठरांत्र , प्रमस्तिष्कमेरु , उदरावरणीय , और ocular fluids  .
Self-esteem is a term used in psychology to reflect a person 's overall emotional evaluation of his  or  her own worth .
It is a judgement of oneself as well as an  रवैया toward  the self .
Self-esteem encompasses  मान्यताओं ( लिये  example , `` I am competent , '' `` I am worthy '' ) and emotions such as triumph , despair , pride and shame .
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is what we think about the self ;  self-esteem  , is the positive or negative evaluations of the self , as in how we feel about it . ''
self-esteem is भी ज्ञात as the evaluative आयाम of the स्वः कि शामिल जज्बात of worthiness , prides और discouragement  .
One 's  self-esteem  is also closely associated with self-consciousness .
Self-esteem is a disposition that a person has which  represents उनके  judgements of their own worthiness .
In the mid-1960s , Morris Rosenberg and social-learning theorists defined self-esteem  as a  personal worth or worthiness .
Nathaniel Branden in 1969 defined self-esteem as `` the experience of being competent to cope with the basic  चुनौतियां of जीवन  and being worthy of happiness . ''
According  to branden , self-esteem  is the sum of self-confidence ( a feeling of personal capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ) .
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that every   person has of their ability to face life 's challenges , to understand and solve problems , and their right to achieve happiness , and be given respect .
As a social psychological construct , self-esteem is attractive because researchers have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of relevant outcomes  , such as academic  achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al . 1998 ) .
In addition , self-esteem has also been treated as an important outcome due to its close relation with psychological  well-being ( दलदल 1989  ) .
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example , `` I believe I am a good writer and I feel happy about that '' ) or a global extent  ( for example , `` I  believe I am a bad person , and feel bad about myself in general '' ) .
Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic ( `` trait '' self-esteem ) , though normal , short-term variations ( `` state '' self-esteem  )  also exist .
Synonyms or near-synonyms  of  self-esteem include : self-worth , self-regard , self-respect , and self-integrity .
A Masonic Lodge , often termed a  निजी आवास or  Constituent Lodge , is the basic organisational unit of Freemasonry .
Every new Lodge must be warranted or chartered by a Grand Lodge , but is  विषय to इसके दिशा  only in enforcing the published Constitution of the jurisdiction .
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the world 's first known Grand Lodge in London ( today called the United Grand Lodge of England ) have the unique privilege to operate as time immemorial i.e . without such warrant ; only one other lodge operates without a warrant - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London ,  हालांकि  it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title .
A Freemason is generally  हकदार  to visit any Lodge , in any jurisdiction ( i.e . under any Grand Lodge ) in amity with his own .
In some jurisdictions this privilege is restricted to Master Masons ( that is , Freemasons who have  attained  the Order 's third degree ) .
He is first usually required to  जाँच , और certify  , the regularity of the relationship of the Lodge - and be able to satisfy that Lodge of his regularity of membership .
Freemasons gather together  as a Lodge  to work the three basic Degrees of Entered Apprentice , Fellowcraft and Master Mason .
Pilkington Group Limited is a multinational glass manufacturing  company  headquartered in St Helens , United Kingdom and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Japan-based NSG Group .
Prior  to  its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an independent company listed on the London Stock Exchange and for a time was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index .
A quotation is the repetition of one  अभिव्यक्ति  as part of another one , particularly when the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original source , and it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks .
A quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units of any other form of expression , especially parts of artistic works : elements of a painting , scenes from a movie  or भाग इससे  a musical composition .
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII  ) थी a आम साल  starting on Monday ( link will display the full calendar ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar .
ब्लैक  pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae , cultivated for its fruit , which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning .
The fruit , known as a  peppercorn  when dried , is approximately in diameter , dark red when fully mature , and , like all drupes , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be described simply as pepper , or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ) , green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper   ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to south India , and is extensively cultivated  वहीँ और elsewhere in तीव्र  regions .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper  ,  producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
सूखी मैदान  pepper has been used since antiquity for both its flavour and as a medicine .
Black pepper is the world 's most traded  मसाला  .
It is one of the most common spices added to European cuisine and its  वंशजों .
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine , not to be confused with the capsaicin that gives  मांसल  peppers theirs .
It is in the  आधुनिक संसार  , often paired with salt .
Fire hydrant in  charlottesville  , Virginia , USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a johnny pump in New York City ) , is an active fire protection measure , and a source of water provided in most urban , suburban and rural  क्षेत्रों साथ नगरपालिका  water service to enable firefighters to tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire .
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an  बीमे  discount since firefighters should be able to more rapidly extinguish a fire on the insured property .
The concept of fire  plugs तिथियाँ to at  least the 17th century .
This was  a time  when firefighters responding to a call would dig down to the wooden water mains and hastily bore a hole to secure water to fight fires .
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well , and be transported from the well to the fire by bucket brigades or , later , by  hand-pumped  fire engines .
The holes were then plugged with stoppers  , normally  redwood , which over time came to be known as fire plugs .
The location of the plug would often be recorded or   marked so that it could be reused in future fires .
This is the source of the colloquial term fire plug still used for fire hydrants  आज .
After the Great Fire of London in 1666 , the city installed water mains with holes drilled at intervals , equipped with risers , allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs from street level   .
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to Frederick Graff Sr.  , Chief Engineer  of the Philadelphia Water Works around the year 1801 .
It had a combination hose/faucet outlet and was of `` wet barrel  '' डिज़ाइन  with the valve in the top .
It is said that Graff held the first patent for a fire hydrant , but this can not be verified because the patent office in Washington D.C.  caught on fire in 1836 destroying  many patent records from that period in the process .
The  अध्यक्ष  of the Republic of South Africa is the head of state and head of government under South Africa 's Constitution .
From 1961 to 1994 , the head of state was called the State  अध्यक्ष  .
The President is  निर्वाचित by सदस्यों of the नेशनल सभा , the निम्नतर हाउस of पार्लियामेंट , और is प्रायः the नेता of the largest पार्टी , जिससे रै महरूम the अफ़्रीकी नेशनल कॉंग्रेस चूंकि the पहला non-racial चुनावों यहूद आयोजित on 27 अप्रैल 1994 .
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct role of prime minister , but the  दो  roles were merged in the 1983 constitution which specified a four-year term of office .
The 1993 and later constitutions limits the president 's time in office to two   five-year terms .
The first President to be elected under the new constitution was  नेल्सन मंडेला ,  and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma .
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ) , there was a Government of National Unity , in which an MP  इससे the largest  opposition party was entitled to a position as Deputy President .
Along with Thabo Mbeki , the last State President , F.W . De Klerk also served as Deputy President , in his capacity as the  नेता of the नेशनल  Party which was the second-largest party in the new Parliament .
But De Klerk later  resigned  and went into opposition with his party .
A voluntary coalition government continues  to  exist under the new constitution ( adopted in 1996 ) , although there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president .
Special education or special needs education is the education of students with special needs in a way that addresses the  विद्यार्थी ' व्यक्तिगत  differences and needs .
Ideally , this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of teaching procedures , adapted equipment and materials  , accessible settings  , and other interventions designed to help learners with special needs achieve a higher level of personal self-sufficiency and success in school and community than would be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education .
Common special needs include challenges with learning , communication challenges  ,  emotional and behavioral disorders , physical disabilities , and developmental disorders .
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from additional educational services such as different approaches to  शिक्षण , उपयोग of प्रौद्योगिकी , a specifically  adapted teaching area , or resource room .
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from specialized teaching techniques or different  educational  programs , but the term `` special education '' is generally used to specifically indicate instruction of students whose special needs reduce their ability to learn independently or in an ordinary classroom , and gifted education is handled separately .
In most developed countries , educators are modifying teaching methods and environments so that the maximum number of  students are  served in general education environments .
Special education in developed countries is often regarded  कम as a `` प्लेस '' और अधिक as `` a दायरा  of services , available in every school . ''
Integration can reduce social stigmas  और improve  academic achievement for many students .
The opposite of special education   is general education .
General education is  the  standard curriculum presented with standard teaching methods and without additional supports .
George Soros ( or ; ; ; born August 12 , 1930 , as Schwartz  györgy  ) is a Hungarian-American business magnate , investor , and philanthropist .
He is the chairman of Soros  निधि  Management .
Soros supports progressive-liberal   causes .
He is known as `` The Man Who Broke the Bank of England  `` क्युकी  of his in investment profits during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis .
Between 1979 and 2011 , Soros gave  दूर over $ 8 अरब  to human rights , public health , and education causes .
He played a significant role in the peaceful transition from communism to capitalism in Hungary ( 1984–89  ) and provided one of  Europe 's largest higher education endowments to Central European University in Budapest .
Soros is also the chairman of the Open Society   Institute .
An actor portraying Alexander Graham  घंटी बोलना  into an early model telephone .
The invention of  the टेलीफोन  is the culmination of work done by many individuals , the history of which involves a collection of claims and counterclaims .
The development of the modern electrical telephone involved an array of lawsuits founded upon the patent claims of several individuals and numerous   companies .
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898 , from conception of the idea of an electric voice-transmission device , to failed attempts to use `` make-and-break '' current , to successful experiments with electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and  Thomas Watson , and finally to  commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century .
A Master of Fine Arts (  mfa  , M.F.A . ) is a graduate degree typically requiring 2–3 years of postgraduate study beyond the bachelor 's degree ( BFA ) , although the term of study will vary by country or by university .
The MFA is a creative degree usually awarded as  a terminal degree  in visual arts , creative writing , filmmaking , dance , or theatre and other performing arts .
Coursework is primarily of an applied or performing nature  साथ  the program often culminating in a major work or performance .
Master of Fine Arts programs have generally required a bachelor 's degree prior to admission , but many do not require that the undergraduate major be the  वही as the mfa फ़ील्ड  of study .
The most important admissions  आवश्यकता  has often been a sample portfolio or a performance audition .
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the  निपुण of कला in कि the mfa  , while an academic program , centers around practice in the particular field , whereas programs leading to the MA usually center on the scholarly , academic , or critical study of the field .
Additionally , in the United States ,  an mfa is पहचाना  as a terminal degree for practitioners of Visual Art , Design , Dance , Theatre , Film/Video , New Media , and Creative Writing - meaning that it is considered to be the highest degree in its field , and is used as a minimum qualification to be able to apply to become a Full-Time Professor teaching at the University level in these disciplines .
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts , notably in the case of music performance , where the MFA is not seen as a terminal degree in the context of the more standardized  DMA  degree .
It is also critical to note that in the interest of extending the connection between creative production and continued academic research , some universities have established practice-based Ph.D programs in fields such as creative writing , visual arts   , new media , design and theater .
While this has had an effect in  रचनात्मक  Writing , and to a lesser extent in design and new media , the influx of graduates from practice-based PhD programs has not appreciably changed the standard for the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet .
This is an  जारी contentious  topic , and is the frequent subject of academic panels , especially at the annual College Art Association conference .
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly  re-affirms  that the PhD is not required as a terminal degree in the visual arts .
The atomic bombings of the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan were  conducted  by the United States during the final stages of World War II in 1945 .
the दो कार्यक्रम हैं the तभी उपयोग of नाभिकीय हथियार in युद्ध to  date .
Following a firebombing campaign that destroyed many Japanese cities , the Allies prepared for a  costly आक्रमण of जापानी  .
The war in Europe ended when Nazi  जर्मनी  signed its instrument of surrender on 8 May , but the Pacific War continued .
साथ  with the United Kingdom and the Republic of China , the United States called for a surrender of Japan in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 July 1945 , threatening Japan with `` prompt and utter destruction '' .
The Japanese government ignored  इस  ultimatum , and the United States deployed two nuclear weapons developed by the Manhattan Project .
अमरीकी  airmen dropped Little Boy on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945 , followed by Fat Man over Nagasaki on 9 August .
भीतर  the first two to four months of the bombings , the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in Hiroshima and 60,000–80,000 in Nagasaki , with roughly half of the deaths in each city occurring on the first day .
The Hiroshima prefecture health department estimated that , of the people who died on the day of the explosion , 60 % died from flash  or  flame burns , 30 % from falling debris and 10 % from other causes .
During the following months , large numbers died from the effect of burns , radiation sickness ,  और  other injuries , compounded by illness .
In a US  अनुमान of the  total immediate and short term cause of death , 15–20 % died from radiation sickness , 20–30 % from burns , and 50–60 % from other injuries , compounded by illness .
In both cities , most of the  मुर्दे यहूद नागरिकों  , although Hiroshima had a sizeable garrison .
On 15 August ,  छह दिनों बाद the bombing of नागासाकी , जापानी घोषित इसके आत्मसमर्पण to the allies , हस्ताक्षर the यंत्र of आत्मसमर्पण on 2 सितंबर , officially समाप्ति संसार युद्ध ii .
The bombings led , in part , to post-war Japan 's adopting Three Non-Nuclear Principles ,  forbidding the  nation from nuclear armament .
The role of the bombings in Japan 's surrender and their ethical justification are still  debated  .
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi ( ; 2  अक्तूबर 1869 – 30 जनवरी  1948 ) , commonly known as Mahatma Gandhi , was the preeminent leader of Indian nationalism in British-ruled India .
Employing non-violent civil disobedience , Gandhi led India to independence and  प्रेरित  movements for non-violence , civil rights and freedom across the world .
The son of a senior government official , Gandhi was born and raised in a Hindu Bania community in  coastal  Gujarat , and trained in law in London .
Gandhi  became प्रसिद्ध by लड़ लिये  the civil rights of Muslim and Hindu Indians in South Africa , using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed .
Returning to India in 1915 , he set about organising peasants to  विरोध  excessive land-taxes .
A lifelong opponent of `` communalism  ``  ( i.e . basing politics on religion ) he reached out widely to all religious groups .
He became a leader of Muslims protesting the declining  औकात of the  Caliphate .
Assuming leadership of the  भारतीय  National Congress in 1921 , Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty , expanding women 's rights , building religious and ethnic amity , ending untouchability , increasing economic self-reliance , and above all for achieving Swaraj —the independence of India from British domination .
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national salt tax  साथ the dandi नमक कूच in 1930 , और  later in demanding the British to immediately Quit India in 1942 , during World War II .
He was  imprisoned लिये कि और लिये numerous अन्य राजनैतिक offenses over the सालो .
Gandhi sought to practice non-violence and truth in all situations , and  advocated कि अन्य do the  same .
He saw the villages  as the कोर of the  true India and promoted self-sufficiency ; he did not support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru .
He lived  modestly  in a self-sufficient residential community and wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl , woven with yarn he had hand spun on a charkha .
His chief political enemy in Britain was Winston   Churchill , who ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir . ''
He was a dedicated vegetarian , and undertook long fasts as means  of  both self-purification and political mobilization .
In his last year , unhappy at the partition of India , Gandhi  worked to stop the  carnage between Muslims , Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the border area between India and Pakistan .
He was assassinated on 30 January 1948 by Nathuram   Godse who thought Gandhi was too sympathetic to India 's Muslims .
30 January is observed as  शहीदो '  Day in India .
The honorific  महात्मा  ( `` Great Soul '' ) was applied to him by 1914 .
in इण्डिया he थी भी पुकारा bapu ( `` पिता '' )  .
He is known in India as the Father of the Nation ; his birthday , 2 October  , is  commemorated there as Gandhi Jayanti , a national holiday , and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence .
गांधी 's दर्शनशास्त्र  was not theoretical but one of pragmatism , that is , practicing his principles in the moment .
Asked to give a message to the  लोगों ,  he would respond , `` My life is my message . ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23 , ca .  1904 – May 10 , 1977 ) ,  born Lucille Fay LeSueur , was an American actress in film , television and theatre .
Starting as a dancer  in traveling  theatrical companies before debuting on Broadway , Crawford was signed to a motion picture contract by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925 .
Initially frustrated by the size and quality of her   parts , Crawford began a campaign of self-publicity and became nationally known as a flapper by the end of the 1920s .
In the 1930s , Crawford 's fame rivaled , and later outlasted , MGM  सहयोगियों norma  Shearer and Greta Garbo .
Crawford often played hardworking young women who find romance and  वित्तीय  success .
These ``  rags-to-riches  '' stories were well received by Depression -era audiences and were popular with women .
Crawford became one of Hollywood 's most prominent movie stars and one of the highest paid women in the United States , but her films began losing money and by the  समाप्त of the 1930s वो थी labeled  `` box office poison '' .
After an absence of nearly two years from the screen , Crawford staged a comeback by starring in Mildred  पियर्स ( 1945 ) , लिये जिससे वो जीती the  Academy Award for Best Actress .
in 1955 , वो became शामिल साथ the pepsi-cola कम्पनी through उसके विवाह to कम्पनी अध्यक्ष अल्फ्रेड स्टील  .
After his death in 1959 , Crawford was elected to fill his  रिक्ति  on the board of directors but was forcibly retired in 1973 .
She continued acting in film and television regularly through the 1960s , when her performances became fewer ; after  the रिलीज of the अंग्रेजों हॉरर  film Trog in 1970 , Crawford retired from the screen .
Following a public appearance in 1974 , after which unflattering photographs were published , Crawford withdrew from public life and became increasingly reclusive  जबतक  her death in 1977 .
क्रॉफर्ड  married four times .
Her first three marriages ended in  तलाक ; the पिछला ended  with the death of husband Alfred Steele .
She adopted five children ,   one of whom was reclaimed by his birth mother .
Crawford 's relationships with her two older children ,  क्रिस्टीना  and Christopher , were acrimonious .
Crawford disinherited the two and , after Crawford  's मौत , क्रिस्टीना  wrote a `` tell-all '' memoir , Mommie Dearest , in which she alleged a lifelong pattern of physical and emotional abuse perpetrated by Crawford .
She was  voted the tenth  greatest female star in the history of American cinema by the American Film Institute .
1910 Buick  tonneau  without tonneau cover
1903 घाट  Model A rear-door Tonneau
1903  lanchester  rear-door Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a hard or soft cover used to  protect unoccupied  passenger seats in a convertible or roadster , or the cargo bed in a pickup truck .
Hard tonneau covers open by a hinging or folding mechanism while soft covers  open  by rolling up .
The tonneau cover is used  to छिपाते  cargo .
When the cover is pulled out , it keeps items out of the sun  और provides अतिरिक्त  security by keeping personal items out of sight , as well as shielding the driver from view .
Twitter is an online social networking service and microblogging service that enables its users to send and read text-based messages   of up to 140 characters , known as `` tweets '' .
Twitter was   created in March 2006 by Jack Dorsey and by July , the social networking site was launched .
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity , with over  500 लाख  registered users as of 2012 , generating over 340 million tweets daily and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day .
Since its launch , Twitter has become one of the ten most visited websites on the Internet , and has  महरूम वर्णित  as `` the SMS of the Internet . ''
Unregistered users can read tweets , while registered users can post tweets through the  जालस्थल इंटरफ़ेस , sms , or a दायरा  of apps for mobile devices .
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco , with additional servers and offices in New York City , Boston   , and San Antonio .
The Hangover is a 2009 American   comedy film , co-produced and directed by Todd Phillips and written by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore .
It is the first film of The Hangover franchise .The film stars Bradley Cooper , Ed Helms ,  zach  Galifianakis , Heather Graham , Justin Bartha , and Jeffrey Tambor .
The Hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck , Stu Price and Alan Garner , who travel to Las Vegas for a bachelor party to celebrate their friend Doug  billings '  impending marriage .
However , Phil , Stu and  एलन  have no memory of the previous night 's events and must find Doug before the wedding can take place .
Lucas and Moore wrote  the स्क्रिप्ट बाद  executive producer Chris Bender 's friend disappeared and had a large bill after being sent to a strip club .
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the studio for $ 2 million , Philips and Jeremy Garelick rewrote the script to  शामिल  a tiger as well as a subplot involving a baby and a police cruiser , and also including boxer Mike Tyson .
Filming took place in Nevada for 15 days , and during filming , the three main actors ( Cooper , Helms and Galifianakis ) formed  a  friendship .
The Hangover was released on June 5 , 2009 , becoming a  नाजुक  and commercial success .
It became the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 , with a worldwide gross of over  us $ 467 लाख  .
Critics praised the film 's comedic approach  but  criticized it for its vulgarity .
The film won the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy , and  प्राप्त  multiple other accolades .
it is  the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the world , as well as the second highest-grossing R-rated comedy ever in the United States , surpassing a record previously held by Beverly Hills Cop for almost 25 years and later being surpassed by Ted in 2012 .
Out of all R-rated films , it is the third highest-grossing ever   in the U.S. , behind only The Passion of the Christ and The Matrix Reloaded .
a sequel , the hangover भाग ii , थी released in 2011 , और a तीसरा और फाइनल फिल्मी , the hangover भाग iii , is  set for release in 2013 .
Events involving meiosis , showing  chromosomal  crossover
Meiosis ( ) is a special type of cell division necessary for  यौन  reproduction in eukaryotes .
The cells produced  by  meiosis are gametes or spores .
In many organisms , including all animals and land  पौधे ( लकिन  not some other groups such as fungi ) , gametes are called sperm and egg cells .
Whilst the process of meiosis bears a number of similarities with the 'life-cycle ' cell  division  process of mitosis , it differs in two important respects:
the chromosomes in meiosis undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes  producing a अलग जेनेटिक संयोजन in प्रत्येक gamete , compared  with the co-existence of each of the two separate pairs of each chromosome ( one received from each parent ) in each cell which results from mitosis .
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically unique ) haploid cells , compared with the two  (  genetically identical ) diploid cells produced from mitosis .
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of each chromosome —one from the organism 's mother and one  इससे  its father .
The cell divides twice , potentially producing up to four haploid   cells containing one copy of each chromosome .
( `` Potentially ''  क्युकी  in some cases , such as the formation of oocytes in mammals , only one of the possible four haploid cells survives . )
In animals the haploid cell resulting from meiosis is  a पुरूष or मादा  gamete .
Each of the resulting  गुणसूत्रों in the gamete कोशिकाएं is a  unique mixture of maternal and paternal DNA , resulting in offspring that are genetically distinct from either parent .
This gives  वृद्धि  to genetic diversity in sexually reproducing populations .
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural attributes ( phenotypes ) upon which natural selection can act , but , as described below in Section 6 ,  उत्पत्ति और फलन of meiosis ,  the genetic diversity may be largely a by-product of the homologous recombination that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis .
It is  भी  noteworthy that during meiosis , specific genes are more highly transcribed , and these are called the meiome , the term used in functional genomics for the meiotic transcriptome .
Meiosis is a key feature for all  sexually  reproducing eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing , synapse and recombination occur .
In addition to strong meiotic   stage-specific expression of mRNA ( the meiome ) , however , there are also pervasive translational controls ( e.g . selective usage of preformed mRNA ) , regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis .
Thus , both the meiome and translational controls determine the broad restructuring of meiotic  कोशिकाएं  needed to carry out meiosis .
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes  are  duplicated by a round of DNA replication , creating from the maternal and paternal versions of each chromosome ( homologs ) two exact copies , sister chromatids , attached at the centromere region .
In the beginning of meiosis the maternal and  पैतृक homologs  pair to each other .
Then they typically exchange parts by homologous recombination leading  to crossovers  of DNA between the maternal and paternal versions of the chromosome .
spindle मछली bind to the centromeres of प्रत्येक जोड़ी of homologs और arrange the pairs at the spindle equator  .
Then the fibers pull  the  recombined homologs to opposite poles of the cell .
As the chromosomes move away from the center the cell  divides into  two daughter cells , each containing a haploid number of chromosomes composed of two chromatids .
After the recombined maternal and paternal homologs have separated into the two daughter cells , a  दूसरी गोलाकार of कोशिका प्रभाग occurs  .
There meiosis ends as the two sister chromatids making up each homolog are separated and move into one  of the चार  resulting gamete cells .
Upon fertilization , for example when a sperm enters an egg cell , two gamete cells  उत्पादित  by meiosis fuse .
The gamete from the mother and the gamete from the father each contribute one half of the set of chromosomes that  मेक  up the new offspring 's genome .
meiosis  uses many of the same mechanisms as mitosis , a type of cell division used by eukaryotes like plants and animals to split one cell into two identical daughter cells .
In all plants and in many protists meiosis results in the formation of spores : haploid cells that can divide vegetatively without undergoing  fertilization  .
मुक्केबाज़ी ( pugilism  , prize fighting , the sweet science or in Greek pygmachia ) is a martial art and combat sport in which two people engage in a contest of strength , speed , reflexes , endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands .
Amateur boxing is an Olympic and  राष्ट्रमंडल  sport and is a common fixture in most of the major international games - it also has its own World Championships .
Boxing is supervised by a referee over a series of one-   to three-minute intervals called rounds .
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by a referee , is disqualified for breaking a rule , resigns by  फेंकना in a तौलिया  , or is pronounced the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest .
The birth hour of  मुक्केबाज़ी as a खेल  may be its acceptance by the ancient Greeks as an Olympic game as early as 688 BC .
Boxing evolved from 16th- and 18th-century prizefights , largely in Great Britain , to the forerunner of modern boxing  in the mid-19th सदी  , again initially in Great Britain and later in the United States .
In 2004 , ESPN ranked boxing as the  most  difficult sport in the world .
Agreement or concord  happens जब a शब्द  changes form depending on the other words to which it relates .
It is an instance of inflection , and usually involves making the value of some grammatical category ( such as gender or person ) `` agree '' between different   words or parts of the sentence .
For example , in Standard English , one may say I am or he is , but not `` I is  '' or `` he  am '' .
This is because the grammar of the language  requires  that the verb and its subject agree in person .
The pronouns I and he are first and third person respectively , as are  the क्रिया  forms am and is .
The verb form must be selected so that  it  has the same person as the subject .
The agreement based on  overt व्याकरणिक  categories as above is formal agreement , in contrast to notional agreement , which is based on meaning .
For instance , the phrase The United States is treated as singular for purposes of agreement , even though it is  formally  plural .
This is a list of places below  औसत  sea level that are on land .
Places in tunnels , mines ,  तहखानों , खोदा छेद  ( also with open sky ) , under water , under ice , or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide etc . are not included .
All figures  हैं  in meters below sea level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22 , 1948 in Yakima , Washington ) is a best-selling American author of over 150 romance novels and contemporary women  's  fiction .
Over  140 लाख  copies of her books are in print throughout the world , and four have become made-for-TV-movies .
Macomber was the inaugural winner of the fan-voted Quill Award for romance in 2005 and has been awarded both a Romance Writers  of अमेरिका रीता और a आजीवन  achievement award by the Romance Writers of America .
Catonsville is  a census-designated  place ( CDP ) in Baltimore County , Maryland , United States .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी 41,567 at the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी .
The community lies to the west of Baltimore  साथ the  city 's border .
Catonsville is the home of the University of Maryland ,   Baltimore County ( UMBC ) , a public research university with over 12,000 students .
A  वकील , according  to Black 's Law Dictionary , is `` a person learned in the law ; as an attorney , counsel or solicitor ; a person who is practicing law . ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct established by the sovereign government of a society to correct wrongs , maintain the stability of political and social authority , and  उद्धार  justice .
Working as a lawyer involves the practical application of abstract legal theories and knowledge to solve specific individualized problems , or to advance the interests  of those who retain (  i.e. , hire ) lawyers to perform legal services .
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across legal jurisdictions , and so it can be  treated यहाँ in तभी  the most general terms .
वेक्टर विपणन is the घरेलू बिक्री भुजा of cutco निगम , an olean , नई यॉर्क आधारित cutlery निर्माता .
The Family and  चिकित्सा छोड़ अधिनियम of 1993 ( fmla  ) is a United States federal law requiring covered employers to provide employees job-protected and unpaid leave for qualified medical and family reasons .
Qualified medical and family reasons include : personal  or  family illness , family military leave , pregnancy , adoption , or the foster care placement of a child .
The FMLA is  administered by the मजदूरी  and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor .
The bill was a major   part of President Bill Clinton 's agenda in his first term .
President Clinton signed the bill into  विधि  on February 5 , 1993 ( ; 29 U.S.C . sec . 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) and it took effect on August 5 , 1993 , six months later .
The FMLA was intended `` to balance  the  demands of the workplace with the needs of families . ''
The Act allows eligible employees to take up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period to attend to the serious health condition of the employee , parent , spouse or child , or for pregnancy or care  of a newborn  child , or for adoption or foster care of a child .
in अनुक्रम to be योग्य लिये fmla छोड़ , an कर्मचारी जरूर have महरूम at the कारोबार at तनिक 12 महीने , और worked at तनिक 1,250 घंटों over the पास्ट 12 महीने , और कार्य at a स्थान जहाँ the कम्पनी employs 50 or अधिक कर्मचारी भीतर 75  miles .
The FMLA covers both public- and private-sector employees , but certain categories of employees are excluded ,  सहित  elected officials and their personal staff members .
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era  सैन्य विरोध कि occurred  in Vietnam , Laos , and Cambodia from 1 November 1955 to the fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975 .
This war followed the First Indochina War and was fought between North Vietnam , supported by its communist allies , and the government of South Vietnam ,  समर्थित by the संयुक्त राज्य  and other anti-communist countries .
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front , or NLF ) , a lightly armed South Vietnamese communist common front directed by the North , largely fought a  छापामार युद्ध विरूद्ध anti-communist  forces in the region .
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) engaged in a more conventional war , at times committing large units  into  battle .
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct search and destroy  परिचालन , involving  ground forces , artillery , and airstrikes .
The U.S. government   viewed involvement in the war as a way to prevent a communist takeover of South Vietnam as part of their wider strategy of containment .
The  उत्तर वियतनामी  government and Viet Cong were fighting to reunify Vietnam under communist rule .
They  viewed the विरोध as  a colonial war , fought initially against France , backed by the U.S. , and later against South Vietnam , which it regarded as a U.S. puppet state .
American military advisors arrived in what was then French  इंडोचायना शुरूआत  in 1950 .
U.S. involvement escalated in the early 1960s , with troop levels  tripling in 1961 और  tripling again in 1962 .
U.S. combat units were deployed  शुरूआत  in 1965 .
Operations spanned international borders , with Laos and Cambodia heavily  bombed .
American involvement in the war peaked in 1968 , at the time  of  the Tet Offensive .
After this , U.S. ground forces were gradually withdrawn as   part of a policy known as Vietnamization .
Despite the Paris Peace  accords  , signed by all parties in January 1973 , fighting continued .
U.S.  सैन्य  involvement ended on 15 August 1973 as a result of the Case–Church Amendment passed by the U.S. Congress .
The capture of Saigon by the Vietnam People 's Army  in अप्रैल 1975 चिह्नित  the end of the war , and North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year .
The war exacted a huge human cost  in  terms of fatalities ( see Vietnam War casualties ) .
Estimates of the number of  वियतनामी  soldiers and civilians killed vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million .
कुछ  200,000–300,000 Cambodians , 20,000–200,000 Laotians , and 58,220 U.S. service members also died in the conflict .
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska  photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Space Station , May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during the climactic eruption   at Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
A volcano is an opening , or rupture , in a planet 's surface or crust ,  which  allows hot magma , volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface .
Volcanoes are   generally found where tectonic plates are diverging or converging .
a mid-oceanic लकीरें , लिये उदाहरण the mid-atlantic लकीरें , रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अपसारी tectonic प्लेटों pulling अलावा ; the प्रशांत रिंग of आग रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अभिसारी tectonic प्लेटों coming साथ  .
By  कंट्रास्ट , ज्वालामुखी हैं प्रायः नहीं निर्मित जहाँ दो tectonic प्लेटों स्लाइड पास्ट एक another .
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in  the interiors  of plates , e.g. , in the East African Rift , the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This type of volcanism falls  अंतर्गत  the umbrella of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from plate boundaries has also been  समझाया  as mantle plumes .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km  गहन  in the Earth .
Erupting volcanoes can pose many hazards , not only  in the  immediate vicinity of the eruption .
volcanic राख can be a threat to वायुयान , in particular those साथ जेट इंजन जहाँ राख अणु can be melted by the ऊँची ऑपरेटिंग तापमान .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however , they  also absorb heat  radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically ,  so-called volcanic  winters have caused catastrophic famines .
a गहन pothole on नई यॉर्क नगर 's दूसरी एवेन्यू
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and known in parts of the Western United States as a chuckhole ) is a type of disruption  in the  surface of a roadway where a portion of the road material has broken away , leaving a hole .
Renal  कोशिका कार्सिनोमा ( rcc , भी ज्ञात as hypernephroma ) is a गुर्दा कर्कट  that originates in the lining of the proximal convoluted tubule , the very small tubes in the kidney that transport GF ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron .
RCC is the most common type of kidney cancer in adults ,  जिम्मेदार  for approximately 80 % of cases .
It is also known to be the most lethal  of  all the genitourinary tumors .
Initial treatment is most commonly a radical or partial nephrectomy  और remains the mainstay of  curative treatment .
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma , the 5-year  अस्तित्व  rate is 60-70 % , but this is lowered considerably where metastases have spread .
It is relatively resistant to radiation therapy and chemotherapy , although some cases respond  to immunotherapy  .
Targeted cancer   therapies such as sunitinib , temsirolimus , bevacizumab , interferon-alpha , and sorafenib have improved the outlook for RCC .
Estée Lauder Companies , Inc. is a manufacturer and marketer of prestige skincare , makeup , fragrance and hair care  उत्पाद  .
The company has its  मुख्यालय  in Midtown Manhattan , New York City .
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or the coelom —it covers most of the intra-abdominal ( or coelomic ) organs—in amniotes and some invertebrates  ( annelids  , for instance ) .
It is composed of a layer of  mesothelium  supported by a thin layer of connective tissue .
The peritoneum both supports the abdominal  अंगों  and serves as a conduit for their blood and lymph vessels and nerves .
The abdominal cavity ( the space bounded by the vertebrae ,  abdominal मांसपेशियां , diaphragm  and pelvic floor ) should not be confused with the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity , but wrapped in peritoneum ) .
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the stomach ) , the  structures in the abdominal cavity that  are located behind the intraperitoneal space are called `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g . the kidneys ) , and those structures below the intraperitoneal space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the bladder ) .
Modern 2.5 '' SSD used in  उपभोक्ता  laptops and desktop computers .
DDR SDRAM  आधारित ssd  .
Max  और  .
PCI attached IO  त्वरक  SSD
PCI-E , DRAM ,  और  NAND based SSD .
It uses an   external power supply to make the DRAM non-volatile .
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a solid-state disk or electronic disk , though it contains no actual `` disk  '' of any kind )  is a data storage device using integrated circuit assemblies as memory to store data persistently .
SSD technology uses electronic interfaces compatible with  परंपरागत ब्लाक input/output  ( I/O ) hard disk drives .
SSDs have no moving mechanical components , which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such as hard disk drives ( HDDs ) or floppy disks , which contain spinning disks and movable   read/write heads .
compared  with electromechanical disks , SSDs are typically less susceptible to physical shock , much quieter , have lower access time , and less latency .
However , while the price of SSDs has continued to  मनाही in 2012 , ssds  are still about 7 to 8 times more expensive per unit of storage than HDDs .
Many SSDs use I/O   interfaces developed for hard disk drives , thus permitting simple replacement in common applications .
, most SSDs use   NAND-based flash memory , which retains data without power .
For applications requiring fast access , but not necessarily data persistence after power  घाटा  , SSDs may be constructed from random-access memory ( RAM ) .
ऐसे डिवाइस may employ पृथक शक्ति स्त्रोत , ऐसे as बैटरी , to maintain आंकड़ा बाद शक्ति घाटा .
Hybrid drives or solid state hybrid drives (  SSHD )  combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit , containing a large hard disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data .
These devices may offer near-SSD  प्रदर्शन  for many applications .
Salmon roe ( left ) and sturgeon caviar ( right ) served with mother of pearl caviar spoons to avoid tainting the  स्वाद of  the caviar .
Ossetra caviar , salmon  creme  fraiche , potato shallot croquette , basil oil , egg whites and yolks
Caviar , according to the Food and Agriculture Organization , is a product  बना इससे  salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family .
The roe can be `` fresh '' ( non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized , with pasteurization reducing its  culinary  and economic value .
Traditionally the  पद  caviar refers only to roe from wild sturgeon in the Caspian and Black Seas ( Beluga , Ossetra and Sevruga caviars ) .
Depending on the country , caviar may also be used to describe the roe of other fish such as salmon ,  steelhead  , trout , lumpfish , whitefish , and other species of sturgeon .
Caviar is considered a luxury delicacy and is  खाया as  a garnish or a spread .
In 2012 , caviar sold for $ 2,500 per pound , or $  3,000 to $  5,500 per kilo .
The SEC Network is a television syndication   network featuring live broadcasts of college football and basketball events from the Southeastern Conference .
It is owned and operated by ESPN Plus  और is दिखाया in  more than 50 percent of households in the United States , mostly Southeastern United States markets .
The SEC Network typically airs in the noon eastern slot that was  पूर्व घर to the raycom  Sports SEC game of the week .
खेल  are shown locally on broadcast stations , regional sports networks , as well as on ESPN GamePlan , ESPN Full Court , and ESPN3.com .
The SEC Network is also available in Canada via  अटलांटा 's wpch-tv  .
The SEC Network uses the same on-screen graphics currently used by ESPN on ABC , a  संस्करण of ईएसपीएन 's ग्राफिक्स पैकेज  .
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because most of its affiliates do not Letterbox their Standard Definition feeds , while ESPN 's television networks have allowed their graphics to abandon  the title safe , but letterbox  for SD viewers .
Starting with the SEC 2012 Basketball season , SEC Network 's graphics have  महरूम परिवर्तित to a 16:9  Widescreen-only format .
This is also being used for the  2013 बास्केट ऋतु , लकिन था स्टिल adapted  the former 4:3-safe graphics format for the 2012 SEC football season .
The 1990s ,  सुनाया और भी  known as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the Nineties '' or `` the '90s '' , was a decade that began on January 1 , 1990 , and ended on December 31 , 1999 .
It was the 10th and last decade of the 20th century and the 100th and last decade of the 2nd  मिलेनियम  .
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold War at the beginning of the decade and the expansion and commercialization  of the अंतरजाल  during the second half of the decade .
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of unprecedented peace and prosperity , though many parts of the so-called Third   World faced various problems including genocide , AIDS and new or continuing ethnic tensions and civil wars .
Culturally speaking the decade was characterized by the rise of multiculturalism and  वैकल्पिक मीडिया  .
Movements such as grunge , the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world to young people during the decade ,  aided  by then-new technology such as cable television and the Internet .
A combination of factors , including the mass mobilization of capital markets through neoliberalism , the beginning of the widespread proliferation of new media such as the Internet , and the  विच्छेद of  the Soviet Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of economic and political power across the world , and within countries .
Income inequality among countries in the world rose sharply between the 1980s and the mid-1990s , before levelling off and   then falling after 2000 .
New ethnic conflicts emerged in Africa , the Balkans and the Caucasus , the former two which  led to  the Rwandan genocide and Bosnian genocide , respectively .
The United States began its current military occupation of the Middle East during the summer of 1990 with Desert Shield after it cut off a large portion of the world 's petroleum  सप्लाई  .
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel and the Arab world remained elusive , though the Irish Troubles came to a  standstill in 1998  with the Good Friday Agreement after 30 years of violence .
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a species of canid native to the wilderness and remote areas of North America , Eurasia ,  और उत्तर  Africa .
it is the largest सदस्य of इसके परिवार , साथ males averaging , और महिलाओं  .
It is similar in general appearance  and  proportions to a German shepherd , or sled dog , but has a larger head , narrower chest , longer legs , straighter tail and bigger paws .
Its winter fur is long and bushy , and predominantly a mottled gray in colour , although nearly pure white , red , or  भूरा to ब्लैक  also occur .
Within the genus Canis , the gray wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its smaller cousins ( the coyote and golden  jackal ) , as  demonstrated by its morphological adaptations to hunting large prey , its more gregarious nature and its highly advanced expressive behavior .
It is a social animal , travelling in nuclear families  consisting  of a mated pair , accompanied by the pair 's adult offspring .
the धूसर भेड़िया is typically an apex परभक्षी throughout इसके दायरा , साथ तभी इंसानो और टाइगर्स पोज़ a गंभीर threat to it  .
It feeds primarily on large ungulates , though it also eats smaller  पशु  , livestock , carrion , and garbage .
The gray wolf is one of the world 's most well researched animals  ,  with probably more books written about it than any other wildlife species .
It has  a long इतिहास  of association with humans , having been despised and hunted in most agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock , while conversely being respected by some Native American tribes .
It is the sole ancestor of the dog , which was first  domesticated in the मध्य  East .
Although the fear of wolves is prevalent in many human societies , the majority  of recorded attacks on  people have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies .
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and killed people , mainly children , but this is unusual , as wolves  हैं अपेक्षाकृत few ,  live away from people , and have been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds .
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to , though its still   relatively widespread range and stable population means that the species is not threatened at a global level , and is therefore classified by the IUCN as Least Concern .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization , characterised by an autocratic form of government and large territorial holdings around the  भूमध्यसागरीय in यूरोपीय  , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman  गणतंत्र  , which preceded it , had been destabilized through a series of civil wars .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire , including  जूलियस सीज़र 's नियुक्ति as perpetual  dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ) .
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman  सलाम  '' ) .
It  पहुँचे  its greatest expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ) .
In the 3rd century , the Empire  underwent  a crisis that threatened its existence , but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian .
Christians rose to power in the 4th century , during which time a system of  डुअल नियम थी विकसित in the लैटिन  West and Greek East .
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th century , the  पूर्वी हाफ जारी as  what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language , religion , architecture , philosophy , law , and forms  of सरकारी in  the territory it governed , particularly Europe , and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world .
Education  in the  United States is mainly provided by the public sector , with control and funding coming from three levels : local , state , and federal , in that order .
Child education is compulsory , and there are also a large number  and  wide variety of higher education institutions throughout the country that one can choose to attend , both publicly and privately administered .
Public education   is universally available .
School curricula , funding , teaching , employment , and other policies are set through locally elected school boards with jurisdiction over school districts with  many directives from state  legislatures .
School districts are usually separate from  other local  jurisdictions , with independent officials and budgets .
Educational standards and standardized testing decisions are usually   made by state governments .
The ages for  अनिवार्य  education vary by state .
It begins from ages five to eight and ends from ages fourteen   to eighteen .
Compulsory education requirements can generally  be संतुष्ट by educating children  in public schools , state-certified private schools , or an approved home school program .
In most public and private schools , education is divided into three levels :  elementary school  , middle school ( sometimes called junior high school ) , and high school ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ) .
In almost all schools at these levels , children are divided by age groups into  ग्रेड  , ranging from kindergarten ( followed by first grade ) for the youngest children in elementary school , up to twelfth grade , the final year of high school .
The exact  age  range of students in these grade levels varies slightly from area to area .
Post-secondary education , better known as `` college `` in the United States , is generally governed separately from the elementary and high school  प्रणाली , और is  described in a separate section below .
Government supported , free public schools for all  प्रारंभ होने स्थापित  after the revolution , and expanded in the 19th century , as the results of efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington .
By 1870 , all states had free elementary schools , albeit only in urban  centers  .
As the 20th century drew nearer , states started passing laws to make schooling compulsory , and by 1910 , 72 percent of children  attended  school .
Private schools continued to spread during this time  , as well as colleges  and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges .
The year of 1910 also saw the first true high   schools .
During the rest of the 20th century , educational efforts centered  on  reducing the inequality of the schooling system .
The landmark Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education made the desegregation of elementary and high schools a national priority , while the Pell Grant  कार्यक्रम helped ग़रीब अल्पसंख्यकों  gain access to college .
Special education was made into  संघीय  law in 1975 .
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 made standardized   testing a requirement , and in 1983 , a commission was established to evaluate their results and propose a course of action .
The resulting No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 was controversial and its goals  proved to  be unrealistic .
A commission  स्थापित  in 2006 evaluated higher education , but its recommendations have yet to be fully implemented .
Paul Bragg ( February 6 , 1895 – December 7 , 1976 ) , nutritionist , was a pioneer in America’s wellness  गति  .
Health spending per capita , in $ US PPP-adjusted , with the US and Canada compared amongst other  पहला संसार राष्ट्र  .
Comparison  of the health care  systems in Canada and the United States are often made by government , public health and public policy analysts .
The two countries  था समान स्वास्थ्य  care systems before Canada reformed its system in the 1960s and 1970s .
The United States spends  much  more money on health care than Canada , on both a per-capita basis and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 , per-capita spending for health care in Canada was US $ 3,678 ;  in  the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The  u.S. खर्च  15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In  2006 , 70 % of स्वास्थ्य परवाह बिता in कनाडा थी financed by सरकारी , बनाम 46 % in the संयुक्त राज्य .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending , and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of total Canadian  बिता ( पब्लिक और  private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences .
Studies have come to different conclusions about the result of this disparity  in  spending .
A 2007 review of all  अध्ययन comparing स्वास्थ्य outcomes in कनाडा और the us in a कनाडाई  peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States , but differences are not consistent . ''
Life expectancy is longer  in  Canada , and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S. , but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization  's  ratings of `` overall health service performance '' , which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of health , the distribution of health , the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '' , or quality of service for individuals receiving treatment , as 1st ,  compared साथ  7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy  लिये canadians थी 80.34 सालो compared साथ 78.6 सालो लिये निवासियों of the us , बस comparing the जीवन प्रत्याशा of दो समूह साथ अलग जातिगत मेकअप और अलग मोटापा दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining जिससे healthcare प्रणाली is श्रेष्ठ .
The  जो 's  study methods were criticized by some analyses .
हालांकि वहीँ is a माप of सर्वसम्मति  that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care , assuming the population makeup is similar , a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
The sound source has  अभी टूटा  through the sound speed barrier , and is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of sound , ( Mach 1.4 ) .
Since the source is moving faster ( with a speed )  than  the sound waves it creates , it actually leads the advancing wavefront .
The sound source will pass by a stationary observer (  साथ a गति ) पहले  the observer actually hears the sound it creates .
As a result , an observer in front of the  source  will detect
and an   observer behind the source .
a सोनिक बूम उत्पादित by an वायुयान चलती at m=2.92 , गणना इससे the कोन कोण of 20 डिग्री  .
An observer hears the boom when the shock  वेव  , on the edges of the cone , crosses his or her location .
mach कोन  angle
A sonic boom is the  ध्वनि संबद्ध साथ the  shock waves created by an object traveling through the air faster than the speed of sound .
Sonic booms   generate enormous amounts of sound energy , sounding much like an explosion .
The   crack of a supersonic bullet passing overhead is an example of a sonic boom in miniature .
The Tonight  दिखाएँ साथ  Jay Leno is an American late-night talk show hosted by Jay Leno that initially aired from May 25 , 1992 to May 29 , 2009 , and resumed production on March 1 , 2010 .
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise made its debut on May 25 , 1992 , three days following Johnny Carson  's  retirement as host of the program .
The program originates from NBC Studios in Burbank  ,  California , and is broadcast Monday through Friday at 11:35 PM in the Eastern and Pacific time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ) .
नापसंद कार्सन or उसके पूर्ववर्ती जोकर paar , लीनो तभी एकबार utilized a अतिथि मेजबान , preferring to मेजबान the श्रेणी by खुद .
On April 26 , 1999 , the show began broadcasting in 1080i HDTV , becoming the first American nightly talk show to  be shot in  high definition .
The show is shot in 16:9   aspect ratio .
the श्रेणी , जिससे followed the वही मौलिक स्वरूप as कि of उसके पूर्ववर्तियों ( an खोलने monologue followed by कॉमेडी दिनचर्या , साक्षात्कार और प्रदर्शन ) , भागा जबतक may 29 , 2009 , बाद जिससे लीनो थी succeeded by कोनन  O'Brien .
NBC  signed  Leno to a new deal for a nightly talk show in the 10:00 pm ET timeslot .
The primetime series , titled The Jay Leno Show , debuted on September 14 , 2009 , following a  समान  format to the Leno incarnation of Tonight .
Neither O'Brien 's version of the  कार्यक्रम  , which premiered June 1 , 2009 , nor The Jay Leno Show generated the ratings that NBC had expected .
The network decided to move a condensed 30-minute version of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's time slot , and O'Brien   's Tonight Show a half-hour later .
इस निर्णय मिले साथ विपक्ष इससे o'brien , जिनकी कार्यावधि on the tonight दिखाएँ ended जनवरी 22 , 2010 , बाद जिससे he began उसके अपना बात  show on TBS .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno then began its second and current incarnation , the sixth of the franchise ,  on कूच 1 , 2010 .
RFID chip next to a grain of rice  .
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an   external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number when queried by a reader device .
This small type is incorporated in consumer  उत्पाद  , and implanted in pets , for identification purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data , for the purposes of  automatically identifying और  tracking tags attached to objects .
The tags contain  electronically  stored information .
Some tags are powered and read  at छोटी  ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as a battery , or else have no battery but  collect उर्जा इससे the  interrogating EM field , and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery powered tags may operate at  सैंकड़ों of मीटर .
Unlike a bar code , the tag does not necessarily need to be within line of sight of the  रीडर , और  may be embedded in the tracked object .
RFID tags  हैं प्रयुक्त  in many industries .
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track its progress through the  सभा  line .
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked through  warehouses  .
Livestock and pets  may have tags  injected , allowing positive identification of the animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing , possessions , or even implanted  भीतर लोगों  , the possibility of reading personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns .
id ,  ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus defined in Sigmund Freud 's structural model of the psyche ; they are the three theoretical constructs in terms of whose activity and interaction mental life is described .
According to this model of the psyche , the id is the set of uncoordinated instinctual trends ; the super-ego plays the critical and moralizing role ; and the ego is  the व्यवस्थित , यथार्थवादी  part that mediates between the desires of the id and the super-ego .
The  super-ego  can stop you from doing certain things that your id may want you to do .
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus , the id , ego and super-ego are functions of the mind rather than parts of the brain and do not  correspond one-to-one साथ  actual somatic structures of the kind dealt with by neuroscience .
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' and `` topographical model '' ) was first discussed in his 1920 essay `` Beyond the Pleasure Principle `` and was  formalized और elaborated upon  three years later in his `` The Ego and the Id `` .
Freud 's proposal was influenced by the  ambiguity of  the term `` unconscious `` and its many conflicting uses .
एयर  Force ROTC emblem
The Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the United States Air Force , the other two being the United States Air Force Academy  ( USAFA ) and  Air Force Officer Training School ( OTS ) .
A subordinate command of the Air  विश्वविद्यालयों भीतर  the Air Education and Training Command ( AETC ) , AFROTC is aligned under the Jeanne M. Holm Center for Officer Accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell AFB , Alabama .
The Holm Center , formerly known as the Air Force Officer Accession and  Training  Schools ( AFOATS ) , retains direct responsibility for both AFROTC and OTS .
AFROTC is the  largest  and oldest source of commissioned officers for the U.S. Air Force .
AFROTC 's stated mission is to produce quality   leaders for the U.S. Air Force .
AFROTC units are  स्तिथ on 144 कॉलेज और विश्वविद्यालयों campuses  with 984 additional institutions of higher learning participating in cross-town agreements that allow their students to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university .
According to AFOATS HQ , in 2006 , AFROTC commissioned 2,083 USAF Second Lieutenants , with AFROTC  नामांकन  ranging from 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993 , and around 13,000 enrolled today .
afrotc इकाई at कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों हैं पुकारा `` detachments , '' और हैं typically headed by an क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारी in the रैंक of कर्नल or लेफ्टिनेंट कर्नल जो कृत्यों as दोनो the detachment कमांडर लिये यूएसएएफ उद्देश्य और साथ the नाममात्र शीर्षक of प्राध्यापक of aerospace अध्ययन ( pas ) भीतर the संस्था 's अकादमिक  community .
Most colleges and universities will  designate the afrotc detachment  as the Department of Aerospace Studies .
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant Professors of Aerospace Studies ( APAS ) , all active duty USAF officers in   the ranks of major or captain .
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned officer will typically provide military administrative support and are often augmented by one to two civilian staff support  कर्मचारी of  the academic institution .
Within AFROTC detachments , the students ( referred to as `` cadets '' ) are organized into wings , groups , squadrons , and flights  ,  mirroring the USAF functional wing structure .
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into  two divisions  : the General Military Course ( GMC ) consisting of the first two years of training , and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of training .
The AFROTC program is also divided into two training functions : the Academic Classroom Program ( Aerospace Studies classes ) and Cadet Activities ( i.e. , Leadership Laboratory  ,  Physical Training , and other training ) .
Paper density ( also known as basis weight and grammage ) is a term used in the pulp and paper industry and also for fabric industry to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of  fabric , paper  or paperboard .
The term ``  घनत्व '' is नहीं प्रयुक्त  in its traditional sense of mass per unit volume .
`` Paper density  '' ,  rather , is a measure of the area density .
Paper products that let little or no light pass through ( e.g . poster board ) are  considered  dense or heavy .
Paper products that allow some light  to pass  through ( e.g . tissue paper ) are considered lightweight .
In the pulp and paper industry , it is common to set a commercial  paper  machine to produce paper to a target paper density .
Paper density can also be used to distinguish paper from paperboard as the latter usually has a grammage greater than  134  g/m2 .
Two  ways  of expressing paper density are commonly used:
Expressed in grams  प्रति वर्गाकार  meter ( g/m2 ) , paper density is also known as grammage .
This is the measure  प्रयुक्त in सबसे  parts of the world .
Expressed in terms of the mass ( expressed as weight ) per number of sheets , it is  ज्ञात as आधार वज़न  .
The convention used in the United States and a few other countries using US paper sizes is pounds of a ream  of 500 (  or in some cases 1000 ) sheets of a given ( raw , still uncut ) basis size .
Japanese paper is expressed as the weight in   kg of 1000 sheets .
Candace Nicole Parker ( born April 19 , 1986 ) is an American basketball player for the WNBA 's Los Angeles Sparks and UMMC Ekaterinburg of  रूस  .
She is the younger sister of NBA player  एंथोनी  Parker .
She attended the University of Tennessee and was drafted by the Sparks in  2008  .
She may be best known for being the first woman to dunk in an NCAA tournament game and the  पहला  woman to dunk twice in a college game—she set both milestones as a redshirt freshman on March 19 , 2006 .
She also became only the  दूसरी  player to dunk in a WNBA game on June 22 , 2008 .
A versatile player , she is mainly a forward , but was  सूचीबद्ध  on Tennessee 's roster as a forward , center , and guard .
She  थी a प्रारंभ on the  Lady Vols basketball team , winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships .
पार्कर जीती the 2009 निकलोडियन बच्चे ' चुनाव पुरस्कार as the पसंदीदा मादा खिलाड़ी in the खेल श्रेणी .
और वो  was a guest star on Figure It Out .
A food guide pyramid  is a  pyramid shaped guide of healthy foods divided into sections to show the recommended intake for each food group .
The first food   pyramid was published in Sweden in 1974 .
The most widely known food pyramid was introduced  by the United States Department  of Agriculture in the year 1992 , was updated in 2005 , and then replaced in 2011 .
Over 25 other countries and organisations have also published food  पिरामिडों .
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred to  in  Scandinavia as H. C. Andersen ; April 2 , 1805August 4 , 1875 ) was a Danish author and poet .
Although a prolific writer of plays , travelogues , novels , and poems ,  andersen is बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके परी किस्से , a साहित्यिक विधा  he so mastered that he himself has become as mythical as the tales he wrote .
Andersen 's popularity is not limited to children ; his stories—called , or `` fantastic tales '' —express  विषयवस्तु कि transcend  age and nationality .
During his lifetime he was  acclaimed  for having delighted children worldwide and was feted by royalty .
Andersen 's fairy tales , which have been translated into more than 125 languages , have become culturally embedded in the West 's collective  चेतना  , readily accessible to children , but presenting lessons of virtue and resilience in the face of adversity for mature readers as well .
They have  प्रेरित गति  pictures , plays , ballets , and animated films .
Two figures locking eyes in Caravaggio  's  The Fortune Teller
Eye contact occurs when `` two people look at each other  's आँखें  at the same time . ''
In human beings , eye contact is a form of nonverbal communication and is thought to have a large  influence on सोशल  behavior .
Coined in the early to mid-1960s , the term has come in the West to often  define the अधिनियम as  a meaningful and important sign of confidence and social communication .
The customs and significance of eye contact vary widely between cultures  , with religious  and social differences often altering its meaning greatly .
The  पढ़ाई of नजर सम्पर्क is sometimes ज्ञात as oculesics .
Bed  बग  are parasitic insects of the cimicid family that feed exclusively on blood .
The term most commonly refers to members of the genus Cimex of which Cimex  lectularius , the आम bed कीड़ा , is the बेहतरीन ज्ञात as it prefers to फीड on इंसान रक्त हालांकि  other Cimex species are specialized to other animals , e.g. , bat bugs , C. pipistrelli ( Europe ) , C. pilosellus ( western US ) , and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ) .
The name of the `` bed bug   '' is derived from the preferred habitat of Cimex lectularius : warm houses and especially nearby or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep areas .
Bed bugs are mainly active at night , but are not  exclusively  nocturnal .
They  प्रायः फीड  on their hosts without being noticed .
A number of  प्रतिकूल स्वास्थ्य प्रभाव may परिणाम इससे bed कीड़ा bites , सहित स्किन rashes , मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रभाव , और allergic लक्षण .
Diagnosis   involves both finding bed bugs and the occurrence of compatible symptoms .
Bed bugs have been known as human parasites for thousands  of सालो  .
At a point in the early 1940s , they were mostly eradicated in the  विकसित संसार , लकिन  have increased in prevalence since 1995 .
Because infestation of human habitats has been on the increase , bed bug bites and related conditions have been  on the वृद्धि as खूब  .
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible ,   preceding Ezekiel , Jeremiah and the Book of the Twelve .
( The order of the subsequent books differs somewhat in  the  Christian Old Testament ) .
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all the nations of the world that oppose God , while the last 27 prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel and a new creation in God 's  गौरवशाली भविष्य किंगडम ;  this section includes the Songs of the Suffering Servant , four separate passages referring to the nation of Israel , interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ .
Tradition  ascribes authorship  of the book to Isaiah son of Amoz , but now scholars widely agree that the book is the work of three different authors - few scholars deny this view , and those that do , do so for theological reasons .
The first , termed Proto-Isaiah (  अध्याय 1–39 ) , contains the शब्द of the 8th-century bce नबी साथ 7th-century bce expansions ; the दूसरी , deutero-isaiah ( अध्याय 40–55 ) , is the कार्य of a 6th-century bce लेखक लिखने निकट the समाप्त of the babylonian captivity ; और the तीसरा , the काव्य trito-isaiah ( अध्याय 56–66 ) , थी रचित in जेरूसलम shortly बाद the वापसी इससे निर्वासन , संभवतः by अनेक लेखक .
Oregon State University ( OSU ) is a coeducational , public   research university located in Corvallis , Oregon , United States .
The university offers undergraduate , graduate and  डॉक्टरेट डिग्री और a multitude  of research opportunities .
There are  more  than 200 academic degree programs offered through the university .
OSU 's programs in microbiology , nuclear engineering , ecology , forestry ,  पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य  , biochemistry , zoology , oceanography , food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs .
The OSU 's liberal arts programs have also grown significantly and the  department  is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution .
More than   200,000 people have attended OSU since its founding .
The Carnegie Foundation classifies  ऑरेगॉन राज्य  University as part of its top tier of research institutions .
As of  2008  , OSU is one of only seventy-three land-grant universities .
The school is also  पहचाना  as a sea-grant , space-grant and sun-grant institution , making it one of only two US institutions to retain all four designations and the only public university to do so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ) .
as एक of the दो फ्लैगशिप विश्वविद्यालयों of the ऑरेगॉन विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली , osu receives अधिक funding लिये शोध , annually , than सब अन्य पब्लिक उच्चतर शिक्षा संस्थानों in ऑरेगॉन संयुक्त .
Female ejaculation is the  expulsion of द्रव by इंसान महिलाओं  from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm .
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting , although these are considered to be different phenomena  in कुछ शोध  publications .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue  to  be a topic of debate among medical professionals , which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot .
The Kanab ambersnail , scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense , is a critically endangered subspecies or species  of  small , air-breathing land snail , a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Succineidae , the amber snails .
The  आम नाम of the एम्बर घोंघे is आधारित on the शेल , जिससे is पारदर्शी और जब खाली प्रायः resembles एम्बर in रंग .
This species is endemic to the United States , specifically the state of Arizona and Utah ,  जहाँ it थी पहला  collected in the early 20th century .
It has been listed as  endangered on the संयुक्त राज्य  Fish and Wildlife Service list of endangered species since 8 August 1991 .
This snail lives in wetlands , springs , and seeps , and only two of its natural habitats are known to exist : Three Lakes , a meadow near Kanab , Utah , and Vasey 's Paradise , a spring along the Colorado River within Grand Canyon  National  Park .
In its  प्राकृतिक आवास it is बल्कि  polyphagous , feeding mainly on bacteria , plants and fungi , and reproduces during the summer .
Now considered a Critically Endangered species on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species  due to a  series of factors ( including influence ) , the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three springs above the historic high water level along the Colorado River .
The Spanish language is the second most used language in the United States   .
There are more Spanish speakers in the United States than there are speakers of  चाइनीज , फ्रेंच , जर्मनी , इतालवी  , Hawaiian , and the Native American languages combined .
According to the 2010 American Community Survey  conducted by the U.S. Census  Bureau , Spanish is the primary language spoken at home by almost 37 million people aged five or older , a figure more than double that of 1990 .
There  हैं 45 लाख hispanophones जो बोलो स्पेनी as  a first or second language , as well as six million Spanish language students , composing the largest national Spanish-speaking community outside of Mexico and making Spanish the Romance language and the Indo-European language with largest number of native speakers in the world .
Roughly half of all U.S. Spanish speakers also speak English `` very well , '' based on the  self-assessment जनसांख्यिकी सवाल  respondents .
The language came to the country since the 16th and 17th centuries with the arrival of Spanish colonists in areas that would later become the states of Florida , Texas ,  Colorado , New Mexico , Arizona ,  Nevada , Utah , and California and of the Spanish explorers - who explored areas of 42 states- .
Also west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French  recovery of  territory ) , after the French and Indian War .
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th century , the  Spanish  language was later reinforced by the acquisition of Puerto Rico in 1898 and by later waves of the Hispanic emigration , basically from Hispanic America , to the United States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today .
is a लैटिन शब्द कि अर्थात् `` यूँ '' or , in लिखने , `` it थी यूँ in the सोर्स सामग्री  '' .
Sic may also  refer  to:
Sic , Cluj , a commune in  रोमानिया
sic  , the regional code for Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ) , styled as [ sic ] , stage name of Jennifer Morris , a Canadian noise   artist
Sic ( band )  is a modern  Hardcore/Thrash metal band from Torshavn , the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) ''  ,  a song by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC , the initial of Marco  simoncelli  .
SIC as an  एक्रोनिम  may stand for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a semiconducting material ,  भी प्रयुक्त  to make metalworking tools
SIC   ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification , a 20th-century  u.S. प्रणाली  for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial Classification a UN system for   economic activities
Shetland   Islands Council
the  स्विस interbank  Clearing system
San Isidro Club , an  अर्जेंटाइन  rugby union club
Standing  निर्वचन कमेटी , a  committee dedicated to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion in the  फ़ील्ड  of statistics
Second-in-command in the field of  विमानन
Sistema Interconectado Central power grid in  चिली
Sociedade  independente  de Comunicação ( SIC ) , a television channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City , New Jersey , a coastal town in the United   States
Segmented Integer Counter mode , a mode of  आपरेशन  in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit , a  high-end  racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
शंघाई अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट , a मोटर रेसिंग स्थान in शंघाई , चीन
सरलीकृत निर्देशात्मक  computer , a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an early twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre   Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College , a two year Junior College in Harrisburg ,  इलिनोइस  , United States
Specific inductive capacity , abbreviated to SIC , which is more commonly known as the relative permittivity or the dielectric  निरंतर
St Ignatius  ' College ,  Riverview , a Jesuit school in Sydney , Australia
alt=Five smiling young girls in various poses wearing white smocks over thigh-length  पोशाक of समान  color to their hair .
The Tokyo Mew Mew manga and anime series features a cast of characters  designed  by Mia Ikumi .
The series takes place in Tokyo , Japan , where five adolescent girls , called  mew  Mews , are infused with the DNA of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to take over the Earth .
The manga series is followed by a short sequel series , Tokyo  mew mew a la विधि  , which introduces a new Mew Mew and a new threat .
The Mew Mews are led by the main character , Ichigo Momomiya , whose first task is  to एकत्रित the अन्य चार mew mews  : Mint Aizawa , Lettuce Midorikawa , Pudding Fong , and Zakuro Fujiwara .
As the series progresses , Ichigo goes from having a crush on Masaya Aoyama to becoming his girlfriend while trying  to hide her  secret double life from him .
The series antagonists  शामिल  three aliens , Kish , Pie , and Tart , and their leader , Deep Blue .
Originally from Earth , the aliens were forced to leave long ago due  to  deadly environmental changes .
They have returned to kill the humans  , जो वे महसूस  are destroying their planet , and reclaim the planet .
In a la Mode ,  मध्य स्कूल छात्र  Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth Mew Mew and , in the absence of Ichigo , the temporary leader of the Mew Mews .
A la Mode also introduces new set of antagonists , the Saint Rose Crusaders  , a समूह of इंसान teenagers  with various psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia .
Led by Duke , they make  अनेक  attempts to kill Berry , eventually turning the local populace against the Mew Mews .
Ikumi 's initial vision for Tokyo Mew Mew was a story called Tokyo Black Cat Girl that featured  a cat-girl battling एलियन  invaders .
After the story was transitioned to a more upbeat story of five female superheroes , the character designs were redone to have a lighter , more colorful  महसूस  .
The main series characters  यहूद praised लिये होने a पूर्ण  fit for the overall story , as well as for their cute appearances .
The characters introduced in a la Mode were  भी  praised for their visual appearances , but criticized as being repeats of the original series .
The character Duke was also  criticized  for having a design reminiscent of the white supremacy group , the Ku Klux Klan .
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of  siltstones  ( below ) and limestones ( above ) , Virgin Formation , southwestern Utah , USA
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the  धरती 's सतह  and within bodies of water .
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles ( detritus ) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate   from a solution .
Particles that form a sedimentary   rock by accumulating are called sediment .
Before being deposited , sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area , and then transported  to the  place of deposition by water , wind , ice , mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation .
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth 's crust is extensive , but the total  योगदान  of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8 % of the total volume of the crust .
Sedimentary rocks are only a  पतला  veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks .
Sedimentary  रॉक्स हैं deposited  in layers as strata , forming a structure called bedding .
The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides information about the subsurface that is useful for civil engineering , for example in the construction of roads , houses , tunnels , canals or other  constructions  .
Sedimentary  रॉक्स  are also important sources of natural resources like coal , fossil fuels , drinking water or ores .
the पढ़ाई of the अनुक्रम of sedimentary चट्टान strata is the प्रमुख सोर्स लिये वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान परिचय the धरती 's इतिहास , सहित palaeogeography , paleoclimatology  and the history of life .
The scientific discipline that studies the properties and origin of sedimentary rocks is called  sedimentology  .
Sedimentology is both part of geology and physical geography and overlaps partly with other disciplines in the Earth sciences , such as pedology , geomorphology ,  भूरसायन or संरचनात्मक भूविज्ञान  .
350px
Humans are born with over 270 bones  , कुछ of जिससे फ्यूज साथ into a अनुदैर्ध्य  axis , the axial skeleton , to which the appendicular skeleton is attached .
Saint Patrick ( ; ; Modern ; ; c. 387 – 17 March c. 460 or c. 492 ) was a  romano-british  Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland .
Known as the `` Apostle of Ireland '' , he is the primary patron saint of the island along with  संतो brigid  and Columba .
Two authentic letters from him survive , from  जिससे  come the only generally accepted details of his life .
When he was about 16 , he was captured from his home and taken as a slave to Ireland , where he  जिया लिये छह  years before escaping and returning to his family .
After becoming a cleric   , he returned to northern and western Ireland as an ordained bishop , but little is known about the places where he worked .
By  the सातवाँ सदी , he था already आइये to be revered as the संरक्षक संत of आयरलैंड .
Most available details of his life are from subsequent hagiographies , and these are now not accepted without detailed   criticism .
The Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in Ireland in 432 , ministered in Ulster around 443 , and  died in  457 or 461 .
The text , however , distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' (   thought to mean Palladius ) and `` Patrick , archapostle of the Scots , '' who died in 492 .
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but , on a widespread  निर्वचन , he थी क्रियाशील as a मिशनरी  in Ireland during the second half of the 5th century .
He is  generally credited  with being the first bishop of Armagh , Primate of All Ireland .
Saint Patrick 's Day is observed on   March 17 , the date of his death .
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland ,  as  both a religious and , especially outside Ireland , secular holiday .
In the dioceses of Ireland , it is both a solemnity and a holy day of obligation   ; outside Ireland , it can be a celebration of Ireland itself .
Line   segments in the golden ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a and shorter side b , when placed adjacent to a   square with sides of length a , will produce a similar golden rectangle with longer side a + b and shorter side a .
इस illustrates the संबंध  .
In mathematics and the arts , two quantities   are in the golden ratio if the ratio of the sum of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one .
The figure on the right illustrates the geometric  संबंध  .
expressed  algebraically:
where the Greek letter phi ( )  represents the सुनहरी  ratio .
Its  मान  is:
The golden  अनुपात is भी पुकारा the सुनहरी  section ( Latin : sectio aurea ) or golden mean .
Other names include extreme and mean ratio , medial  खण्ड  , divine proportion , divine section ( Latin : sectio divina ) , golden proportion , golden cut , and golden number .
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to approximate the golden ratio—especially in the form of the golden rectangle , in which the ratio of the longer side to the shorter is the golden ratio—believing this proportion to be  aesthetically  pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ) .
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio , including its appearance in the dimensions of a regular pentagon and in a golden rectangle , which can be cut into a square and a smaller rectangle   with the same aspect ratio .
The golden ratio has also been used  to analyze  the proportions of natural objects as well as man-made systems such as financial markets , in some cases based on dubious fits to data .
North Myrtle Beach is a coastal   resort city in Horry County , South Carolina , United States .
It was created in 1968 from four existing municipalities north of Myrtle Beach , and  serves  as one of the primary tourist towns along the Grand Strand .
The population was 13,752 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी .
World War I ( WWI ) was  a  global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
it थी predominantly पुकारा the संसार  War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of  the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन  of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances  were both  reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60 million Europeans , were  mobilised  in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants  यहूद मारे , largely  because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in  संसार  history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism  in  the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary  subsequently delivered an ultimatum to  the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over  the  previous decades were invoked .
भीतर  weeks , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
on 28 जुलाई , the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of सर्बिया  .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a casus  belli लिये  Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was  brought to a halt—the  so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the  पूर्वी सामने  , the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November  the  Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war  in  1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed  in March 1917 and a  subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful  offensives और अमरीकी शक्तियां  began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an armistice on 11 November  1918  .
the युद्ध ended in विजय लिये the allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the participants tried to mobilize their   manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war ,  चार  major imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory , while the latter two were  dismantled entirely  .
The map  of  central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states .
the लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा of preventing another ऐसे विरोध  .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat  और  problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
Camden is a city in Camden County , New Jersey ,  संयुक्त  States .
It is the county  सीट  , located across the Delaware River from Philadelphia .
As of the 2010 United States Census the city had a total population of 77,344 , representing a decline of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) from the 79,904  निवासियों enumerated दौरान  the 2000 Census , which had in turn declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census .
Camden ranked as the 12th-most populous municipality in the state in  2010  after having been ranked 10th in 2000 .
Camden was originally incorporated as a city on February 13 , 1828 , from portions of  the now-defunct न्यूटन  Township , while the area was still part of Gloucester County .
On March 13 ,  1844 ,  Camden became part of the newly formed Camden County .
Although once a thriving center for manufacturing and   industry , Camden is perhaps best known for its struggles with urban dysfunction .
Three Camden mayors  have महरूम  jailed for corruption , the most recent being Milton Milan in 2000 .
Since 2005 the school system and police  विभाग  have been operated by the state of New Jersey ; the takeover expired in 2012 .
In 2008 , Camden  था  the highest crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent crimes per 100,000 people while the national average was 455 per 100,000 .
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a budgetary  per-pupil आधार  ) in the 2009–10 school year and two-thirds of the students graduate .
Two out of  प्रत्येक पाँच  residents are below the national poverty line .
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer , Elavil , Tryptizol , Laroxyl , Saroten , Sarotex , Lentizol , Endep ) is a tricyclic   antidepressant ( TCA ) .
It is the most widely used TCA and has at least equal efficacy against depression as the newer class of  ssris according  to a study from early 2001 .
As well as reducing depressive symptoms , these types of tricyclics also ease migraines , tension  headaches , चिंता  attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms .
It is also known to reduce aggression and violent  बर्ताव  .
A computer is a general purpose device that can be programmed to carry out a finite set of arithmetic   or logical operations .
Since a sequence of operations can be readily changed , the computer can solve  अधिक than  one kind of problem .
Conventionally , a  कंप्यूटर consists  of at least one processing element , typically a central processing unit ( CPU ) and some form of memory .
The processing element carries out arithmetic and logic operations , and a sequencing and control unit that can change the  अनुक्रम of परिचालन आधारित on भंडारित  information .
Peripheral devices allow information to be retrieved from an external source , and the result of  परिचालन  saved and retrieved .
The first electronic digital computers were developed between 1940 and 1945 in  the संयुक्त  Kingdom and United States .
originally वे यहूद the आकार of a विशाल रूम , consuming as much शक्ति as अनेक सौ आधुनिक निजी कंप्यूटर ( pcs )  .
In this era mechanical analog computers were used  लिये सैन्य  applications .
Modern computers based on integrated circuits are millions to billions of times more capable than  the early machines , and occupy a  fraction of the space .
Simple computers  हैं  small enough to fit into mobile devices , and mobile computers can be powered by small batteries .
Personal  कंप्यूटर in उनके  various forms are icons of the Information Age and are what most people think of as “computers.”
However , the embedded computers found in many devices from MP3 players to fighter   aircraft and from toys to industrial robots are the most numerous .
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most commonly associated with the controversial idea that women should not work outside the home and should  have अनेक  children during their reproductive years .
It has several other  meanings  as well .
It is a  फिगर  of speech .
The phrase `` barefoot and pregnant '' was probably  पहला  used sometime before 1950 .
An article from 1949 states , `` By early 1949 , TWA was—in the words of its new president ,  ralph S.  Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant . ' ''
Its  उपयोग  may date as early as the 1910s .
An article published in   1958 states the phrase was first used by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier .
`` Some forty years ago , Dr. Hertzler advanced  a hypothesis  which young women of today seem bent on proving correct. '
The only way to keep a woman happy , ' he said , 'is to keep her  barefoot  and pregnant . ' ''
Oakhurst is a  census-designated  place and unincorporated community within Ocean Township , in Monmouth County , New Jersey , United States .
As of the 2010 United  राज्य  Census , the CDP 's population was 3,995 .
University of Phoenix Stadium , opened August 1 , 2006 , is a  बहुउद्देशीय  football stadium located in Glendale , Arizona .
It is the home of the Arizona  कार्डिनल्स  of the National Football League ( NFL ) and the annual Fiesta Bowl .
The stadium is located next door to the Jobing.com Arena and it features the first fully retractable natural grass   playing surface built in the United States on top of an AirField Systems drainage system .
An opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing field to move to  the exterior of the भवन , allowing  the entire natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight .
The  stadium  has hosted Super Bowl XLII , and the 2011 BCS National Championship Game , a game that it hosts every four years , which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11 , 2011 .
it होगा  again host Super Bowl XLIX in 2015 .
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming rights in September 2006 , shortly after the stadium had  opened  under the name Cardinals Stadium .
The `` University of Phoenix `` name is  applied as a  corporate sponsor , and not as the home stadium of the University ( which has no intercollegiate athletics program ) .
The stadium has also hosted the WWE event WrestleMania XXVI with 72,219 fans  in उपस्थिति  .
the इवेंट  was held in the stadium on March 28th 2010 .
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8 , 1828 –  फ़रवरी 24 , 1914 ) , born as लॉरेंस  Joshua Chamberlain , was an American college professor from the State of Maine , who volunteered during the American Civil War to join the Union Army .
Although having no earlier education in military strategies , he became a highly respected and decorated Union officer , reaching the rank of brigadier general ( and  brevet major  general ) .
For his gallantry at Gettysburg , he  थी  awarded the Medal of Honor .
He was given the honor of commanding  the संघ  troops at the surrender ceremony for the infantry of Robert E. Lee 's Army at Appomattox , Virginia .
After the war , he entered politics as a Republican and served four one-year terms of office  as the  32nd Governor of Maine .
He served on the faculty , and as president , of his  अल्मा मेटर  , Bowdoin College .
An inning , or innings , is a fixed-length segment of a game in any of a  किस्में of खेल – सबसे notably क्रिकेट और बेसबॉल  during which one team attempts to score while the other team attempts to prevent the first from scoring .
In cricket , the term innings is both singular and plural and is always   spelled and pronounced with the terminal `` s '' .
In   baseball and softball , the singular form is inning and only the plural takes an `` s '' .
In many other sports , the length of the game is  लिखवाई by a क्लॉक  and teams swap offensive and defensive roles dynamically by taking possession of a ball or similar item .
In baseball and cricket , however , one team , said to be `` batting '' , attempts to score `` runs '' —see run ( baseball ) and run ( cricket ) —while the other team , said to be `` fielding '' , attempts to prevent the  स्कोरिंग  of runs and get members of the batting team out .
the टीमों स्विच स्थान बाद the क्षेत्ररक्षण टोली रै succeeded in getting a फिक्स्ड क्रमांक of खिलाड़ी आउट , बनाना a क्लॉक अनावश्यक  .
In cricket , the term innings is  also used to  refer to the play of one particular player ( Smith had a poor innings , scoring only 12 ) .
By extension , this term can be used in British English for almost any activity which takes a  काल of समय ( the उदार सरकारी  had a good innings , but finally lost office in 1972 , or You 've had a fair innings , now it 's my turn , meaning `` you have spoken for long enough , now let me speak '' ) .
It is also used in reference to someone  who  has died at a reasonably old age or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah , well .
जॉन  was 89 .
At least he  था a शुभ  innings ) .
The baseball-derived parallel   to this in American English is the term at bat .
According to the  ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष  , the term innings has been used in reference to cricket since at least 1735 .
As cricket was a mature , highly organized sport in the 1600s in England  , the  term 's origin could well precede this first recorded usage .
The word inning meaning 'a gathering  in  ' is first recorded in 1522 , and could be related .
Adenosine deaminase deficiency , also called ADA deficiency or ADA-SCID , is an autosomal recessive  metabolic विकार  that causes immunodeficiency .
It occurs in fewer than one in 100,000  सजीव births  worldwide .
It accounts for about 15 % of all cases of severe combined   immunodeficiency ( SCID ) .
It is very rare , you have a 3 % chance of getting this   gene .
ADA deficiency may be present in infancy , childhood  ,  adolescense , or adulthood .
Age of onset and severity is related to some  29 known  genotypes associated with the disorder .
An example of urban poverty in this slum in Jakarta  , इंडोनेशिया
Poverty is the state  of एक जो  lacks a certain amount of material possessions or money .
Absolute poverty or destitution refers to the deprivation of basic human needs , which commonly includes food , water , sanitation , clothing  , shelter ,  health care and education .
Relative poverty is defined contextually as economic inequality in the location  or  society in which people live .
For much of history , poverty was considered largely unavoidable as traditional modes of production were insufficient to give an  संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी  a comfortable standard of living .
After the  औद्योगिक  revolution , mass production in factories made wealth increasingly more inexpensive and accessible .
Of more importance is the  modernization of कृषि  , such as fertilizers , in order to provide enough yield to feed the population .
The supply of basic needs can be restricted by constraints  on सरकारी सेवाएं  such as corruption , tax avoidance , debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational professionals .
Strategies of increasing income to make basic needs more affordable typically include welfare , economic  freedoms  , and providing financial services .
Poverty reduction  is a major goal  and issue for many international organizations such as the United Nations and the World Bank .
The  संसार  Bank estimated 1.29 billion people were living in absolute poverty in 2008 .
Of these , about 400 million people in absolute poverty lived in India and 173 million people  in चीन  .
In USA 1 in 5  children  lives in poverty .
In terms of percentage of regional populations , sub-Saharan Africa at 47 % had the highest incidence rate of absolute poverty   in 2008 .
Between 1990 and 2010  , परिचय  663 million people moved above the absolute poverty level .
Still , extreme poverty is a global challenge ; it is observed in all  parts of the  world , including the developed economies .
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to harmful effects from  ingestion  of toxic substances present in a mushroom .
These symptoms can vary from slight gastrointestinal discomfort   to death .
The toxins present are secondary metabolites produced in specific biochemical pathways   in the fungal cells .
मशरूम विषाक्तता is प्रायः the परिणाम of ingestion of जंगली मशरूम बाद misidentification of a विषाक्त मशरूम as an खाद्य प्रजाति .
The most common reason for this misidentification is close resemblance in terms of colour and general  morphology  of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species .
Even very experienced wild mushroom gatherers are upon rare occasion poisoned by eating toxic species , despite being  well  aware of the risks , through carelessness .
To prevent mushroom poisoning , mushroom  gatherers need to be बहुत परिचित साथ  the mushrooms they intend to collect as well as with any similar-looking toxic species .
In addition , edibility of  मशरूम  may depend on methods of preparation for cooking .
Collectors also need to be well aware that edibility or  toxicity  of some species varies with geographic location .
Human height is the distance from the bottom of the feet to the top of the head in a human body , standing   erect .
When populations   share genetic background and environmental factors , average height is frequently characteristic within the group .
Exceptional height variation ( around 20 % deviation from average ) within such  a  population is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism , which are medical conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities .
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare , environmental factors like chronic malnutrition during childhood or adolescence may account for delayed growth and/or ( in severe  मामले  ) marked reductions in adult stature even without the presence of any of these medical conditions .
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that landed the first humans , Americans Neil  आर्मस्ट्रांग  and Buzz Aldrin , on the Moon on July 20 , 1969 , at 20:18 UTC .
Armstrong became the first to step onto the  चंद्र  surface 6 hours later on July 21 at 02:56 UTC .
आर्मस्ट्रांग खर्च परिचय दो और a हाफ घंटों बाहर the spacecraft , एल्ड्रिन थोड़ा कम ; और साथ वे एकत्रित of चंद्र सामग्री लिये वापसी to धरती  .
A third member of  the मिशन  , Michael Collins , piloted the command spacecraft alone in lunar orbit until Armstrong and Aldrin returned to it just under a day later for the trip back to Earth .
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center in Merritt Island , Florida on July 16 , Apollo 11 was the fifth manned mission  of NASA 's  Apollo program .
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin for the three astronauts which was the only part which landed back on Earth ; a Service Module which  समर्थित  the Command Module with propulsion , electrical power , oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon .
After being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage , the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it and travelled for three days   until they entered into lunar orbit .
आर्मस्ट्रांग और एल्ड्रिन तब स्थानांतरित into the चंद्र मोड्यूल और उतरा in the समुद्र of tranquility .
They stayed a total of about 21 and a  हाफ घंटों  on the lunar surface .
After lifting off in the upper part of the  चंद्र मोड्यूल  and rejoining Collins in the Command Module , they returned to Earth and landed in the Pacific Ocean on July 24 .
Broadcast on live TV to a world-wide audience , Armstrong stepped onto the lunar  सतह  and described the event as `` one small step for [ a ] man , one giant leap for mankind . ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race   and fulfilled a national goal proposed in 1961 by the late U.S. President John F. Kennedy in a speech before the United States Congress , `` before this decade is out , of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth . ''
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international  संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by  the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in  1930 , except in 1942  and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The current champions are Spain , who won the  2010 टूर्नामेंट  .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the  संसार कप फाइनल  .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to determine which  टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट  together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments have  महरूम जीती by आठ  different national teams .
ब्राज़ील have जीती पाँच टाइम्स , और वे हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट .
The other World Cup  विजेता  are Italy , with four titles ; Germany , with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed  sporting  event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014 ,  रूस  in 2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by Raphael Lemkin to describe the deliberate and systematic destruction , in whole or in part , of an  जातीय , जातिगत , धार्मिक  , or national group .
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , as such : killing members of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group ; deliberately inflicting on the groups conditions of life , calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ; imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group ; [ and ] forcibly transferring children of  the समूह  to another group . ''
Skulls of  पीड़ितों  of the Rwandan Genocide
The preamble to the CPPCG not only states that `` genocide is a crime under international law ,  contrary to the स्पिरिट और aims of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र और  condemned by the civilized world '' , but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity '' .
Determining what historical events constitute a genocide and which are merely criminal or  अमानवीय बर्ताव  is not a clear-cut matter .
In nearly every case where accusations of genocide have circulated   , partisans of various sides have fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event , often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts .
An accusation of genocide is certainly not taken lightly  and  will almost always be controversial .
The following list of genocides and alleged genocides should be understood in this context  and  can not be regarded as the final word on these subjects .
A timing  बेल्ट is a non-slipping  mechanical drive belt and the term may refer to either:
Toothed belt , a flexible belt with teeth  moulded  onto its inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ) , a toothed belt used to  ड्राइव  the camshaft ( s ) within an internal combustion engine
The culture of the United States is  primarily a  Western culture , but is also influenced by Native American , African , Asian , Polynesian , and Latin American cultures .
American culture started its formation over 10,000 years ago with the migration of Paleo-Indians from Asia into the region that is today the   continental United States .
It has its own unique social and cultural characteristics such as dialect , music , arts ,  सोशल आदतें ,  cuisine , and folklore .
The United States of America is an  ethnically  and racially diverse country as a result of large-scale immigration from many different countries throughout its history .
Its chief early European influences came from English , Scottish , Welsh and Irish  settlers of औपनिवेशिक  America during British rule .
British culture , due to colonial ties with Britain  कि स्प्रेड the  English language , legal system and other cultural inheritances , had a formative influence .
Other  महत्वपूर्ण  influences came from other parts of western Europe , especially Germany , France , and Italy .
Original elements  भी  play a strong role , such as the invention of Jeffersonian democracy .
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was perhaps the first influential domestic cultural critique by an American and  a reactionary  piece to the prevailing European consensus that America 's domestic originality was degenerate .
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically , such as national holidays , uniquely  अमरीकी  sports , military tradition , and innovations in the arts and entertainment give a strong sense of national pride among the population as a whole .
American culture includes both conservative and liberal elements , scientific and religious competitiveness , political structures , risk taking  और फ़्री  expression , materialist and moral elements .
Despite certain consistent  वैचारिक सिद्धान्त ( e.g . व्यक्तिगत , समतावाद  , and faith in freedom and democracy ) , American culture has a variety of expressions due to its geographical scale and demographic diversity .
The  लचीलापन of u.S. संस्कृति और इसके अत्यधिक सांकेतिक प्रकृति सीसे कुछ शोधकर्ताओं to categorize अमरीकी संस्कृति as a mythic पहचान ; अन्य देखिए it as अमरीकी exceptionalism .
It also includes elements that evolved from Indigenous Americans , and other ethnic cultures—most  prominently the संस्कृति of  African Americans , cultures from Latin America , and Asian American cultures .
अनेक अमरीकी  cultural elements , especially from popular culture , have spread across the globe through modern mass media .
The United States has often been thought of as a melting pot , but beginning in the late 1990s and early 2000s , it trends towards cultural diversity , pluralism and the image of  a salad  bowl instead .
Due to  the extent of अमरीकी  culture , there are many integrated but unique social subcultures within the United States .
The cultural affiliations an  व्यक्तिगत in the संयुक्त  States may have commonly depend on social class , political orientation and a multitude of demographic characteristics such as religious background , occupation and ethnic group membership .
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana Sāmoa — IPA : )  is the  language of the Samoan Islands , comprising the independent country of Samoa and the United States territory of American Samoa .
It is an official language—alongside  अंग्रेज़ी —in  both jurisdictions .
samoan , a पोलिनेशियाई भाषा , is the पहला भाषा लिये सबसे of the समोआ आइलैंड्स ' जनसांख्यिकी of परिचय 246,000 .
With  many  Samoan people living in other countries , the total number of speakers worldwide is estimated at 370,000 .
The language is notable for the  phonological मतभेद between  formal and informal speech as well as a ceremonial form used in Samoan oratory .
A glucose tolerance test is a  चिकित्सा परीक्षण in जिससे  glucose is given and blood samples taken afterward to determine how quickly it is cleared from the blood .
The test is usually used to test for diabetes , insulin resistance , and sometimes reactive hypoglycemia and acromegaly , or rarer disorders of  शर्करा चयापचय  .
in the सबसे commonly performed संस्करण of the परीक्षण , an मौखिक ग्लूकोज सहिष्णुता परीक्षण ( ogtt ) , a मानक खुराक of ग्लूकोज is ingested by मुँह और रक्त स्तर हैं checked दो घंटों बाद .
अनेक विसंगतियाँ of the gtt have महरूम devised over the सालो लिये विभिन्न उद्देश्य , साथ अलग मानक doses of ग्लूकोज , अलग रूट of प्रशासन , अलग intervals और durations of sampling , और विभिन्न substances measured in जोड to रक्त ग्लूकोज  .
`` What About Me '' is a song written by Garry Frost and Frances Swan , first recorded by Australian rock band Moving Pictures from their album  Days of  Innocence .
It was the band 's first number-one single in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on the  शीर्ष ; वहीँ , it थी  the second-highest selling single of 1982 .
The success of the song led them to America where it  became a hit  , reaching # 29 on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
The song stayed in the U.S. charts for such a long time that it managed to make  billboards शीर्ष 100  Pop Singles of 1983 , at # 88 , a rare feat for a single with such a low peak position .
The  सोंग बना  an unusual comeback in 1989 , peaking at # 46 .
On the left a  मुर्गा अंडा ,  the egg most commonly eaten by humans , and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of  अनेक अलग प्रजाति  , including birds , reptiles , amphibians , and fish , and have been eaten by mankind for thousands of years .
Bird and reptile eggs consist of a protective eggshell ,  albumen  ( egg white ) , and vitellus ( egg yolk ) , contained within various thin membranes .
Popular choices for egg consumption are chicken  , बतख , बटेर , roe , और caviar  , but the egg most often consumed by humans is the chicken egg , by a wide margin .
Egg yolks and  पूरे  eggs store significant amounts of protein and choline , and are widely used in cookery .
Due to their protein  सामग्री  , the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) categorizes eggs as Meats within the Food Guide Pyramid .
Despite  the nutritional  value of eggs , there are some potential health issues arising from egg quality , storage , and individual allergies .
मुर्गियों और अन्य egg-laying जीव  are widely kept throughout the world , and mass production of chicken eggs is a global industry .
In 2009 , an estimated 62.1 million metric tons of eggs were  उत्पादित विश्वव्यापी  from a total laying flock of approximately 6.4 billion hens .
There are issues of regional variation in demand and  अपेक्षा ,  as well as current debates concerning methods of mass production , with the European Union 's ban on battery farming of chickens .
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional soccer league  representing the खेल  's highest level in the United States and Canada .
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer Federation ( U.S. Soccer ) , the  लीग  is composed of 19 teams — 16 in the U.S. and 3 in Canada .
Seasons presently run from March to December , with each team playing   34 games in the regular season .
टेन टीमों compete in the postseason mls कप playoffs culminating in the चैंपियनशिप खेल , the mls कप .
Major League Soccer was founded in 1993 as part of the United States ' bid  to मेजबान  the 1994 FIFA World Cup .
The first season took place in 1996 beginning with  टेन  teams .
Instead  of  operating as an association of independently owned teams , MLS is a single entity where each team is owned and controlled by the league 's investors .
The league 's closed membership makes it one of the world 's few soccer leagues  नहीं  using promotion and relegation .
The legality of cannabis varies   from country to country .
Possession of  कैनबिस  is illegal in most countries and has been since the beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s .
However , many  देशों have decriminalized  the possession of small quantities of cannabis , particularly in North America , South America and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were  नहीं लिये  federal law , which governs persons in all states .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries , including  Canada ,  the Czech Republic and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis  , enforcement varies widely at the  state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but , apart from the countries that offer access to medical marijuana , most countries  have various  penalties ranging from lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation , use , possession or transfer   of cannabis for recreational use .
A few  jurisdictions  have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis , making it punishable by confiscation and a fine , rather than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory  उपचार कार्यक्रम लिये यंग  or frequent users , with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
There   are also changes in a more restrictive direction as in Canada .
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many countries and have  resulted  in jail sentences and people losing their jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries  , particularly in parts  of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution .
In cardiovascular physiology , ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric  fraction  of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle .
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the pulmonary  वाल्व into the pulmonary परिसंचरण  or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
इमेजिंग  of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide utility enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly  और inexpensively  .
Simplified , Ejection fraction is  a गणितीय  product allowed by cardiac imaging .
As a  गणितीय पद  , Ejection Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography ,  computed टोमोग्राफी  , Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have definitively allowed clinically relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia , Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
State Route 14 ( SR 14   ) is a north–south state highway in the U.S. state of California , largely in the Mojave Desert .
The southern portion of the highway is signed as  the  Antelope Valley Freeway .
The route connects Interstate 5 , or Golden State Freeway , near  सांता  Clarita and with U.S. Route 395 near Inyokern .
Legislatively , the route extends south of I-5 to State Route 1 in the Pacific Palisades area of Los Angeles , however  the portion दक्षिण of the  junction with I-5 has not been constructed .
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the communities of Santa Clarita ,  palmdale और lancaster साथ  the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area .
The northern portion , from Vincent ( south of  palmdale ) to रूट 395 , is legislatively नामित the  Aerospace Highway , as the highway serves Edwards Air Force Base , once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle .
This section is rural , following the line between the  hot  Mojave desert and the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range .
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad , used for the Antelope Valley Line of the Metrolink commuter rail system as well as a connection between   Los Angeles and the California Central Valley via Tehachapi Pass .
Linked with US 395 , this road connects Los Angeles with such places as Mammoth Mountain , Mono Lake  , Yosemite  National Park and Reno , Nevada .
Route 14 was part of U.S. Route 6 prior to truncation in 1964 , when U.S. 6 was a  coast-to-coast रूट इससे long बीच to  Provincetown , Massachusetts .
The non-freeway segment of SR 14 from Silver Queen Road north of Rosamond to Mojave is known as Sierra Highway , as is the old routing between Interstate 5 and Silver Queen  सड़क जहाँ sr 14 रै महरूम  moved to a newer freeway alignment .
Portions of Route 14 remain signed with names associated with US 6 , including Midland Trail  , थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट  Highway and Grand Army of the Republic Highway .
This route is part of the California Freeway and Expressway   System .
Blindness is the condition of lacking visual perception due to physiological or  neurological  factors .
Various scales have been developed  to describe  the extent of vision loss and define blindness .
Total blindness is the complete lack of form and visual light perception and is  clinically अंकित as  NLP , an abbreviation for `` no light perception . ''
Blindness is  अक्सर  used to describe severe visual impairment with vision .
Those  वर्णित as having तभी  light perception have no more sight than the ability to tell light from dark and the general direction of a light source .
To determine which people may need special assistance  क्युकी of उनके विज़ुअल disabilities  , various governmental jurisdictions have formulated more complex definitions referred to as legal blindness .
In North America and most of Europe , legal  दृष्टिहीनता  is defined as visual acuity ( vision ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or less in the better eye with best correction possible .
This means that a legally blind individual would have to stand from an object to see  it—with corrective lenses —with  the same degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from .
In many areas , people with average acuity who nonetheless have a visual field of  less than 20  degrees ( the norm being 180 degrees ) are also classified as being legally blind .
Approximately ten percent  of those  deemed legally blind , by any measure , have no vision .
The rest have  कुछ  vision , from light perception alone to relatively good acuity .
Low vision is sometimes used to  describe विज़ुअल  acuities from 20/70 to 20/200 .
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical  वर्गीकरण of रोगों , चोटों और कल्याणकारी of मौत , कम दृष्टि  is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ) , but equal to or better than 20/200 ( 6/60 ) , or corresponding visual field loss to less than 20 degrees , in the better eye with best possible correction .
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ) , or corresponding visual field loss to less than 10 degrees , in  the बेहतर  eye with best possible correction .
Blind people with undamaged eyes may still  पंजीकरण लाइट  non-visually for the purpose of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle .
Light  सिग्नल  for this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract and are not affected by optic nerve damage beyond where the retinohypothalamic tract exits .
Earl Simmons ( born December 18 , 1970 ) , better known by his  स्टेज names  DMX and Dark Man X , is an American rapper and actor .
In 1999  , DMX  released his best-selling album ... And Then There Was X , which featured the hit single `` Party Up ( Up in Here ) `` .
He has acted in  films ऐसे  as Belly , Romeo Must Die , Exit Wounds , Cradle 2 The Grave , and Last Hour .
In 2006 , he starred in the reality television series , which   was primarily aired on the BET cable television network .
In 2003 , DMX published a book of his memoirs entitled , E.A.R.L .  : The  Autobiography of DMX .
DMX released a mixtape The Weigh In as a prelude/promotion towards his album  undisputed  ( 2012 ) .
DMX has sold over 30 million records worldwide , making him one of the best-selling hip-hop artists  of  all time .
Professional certification , trade  प्रमाणन , or पेशेवर  designation , often called simply certification or qualification , is a designation earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task .
Not all certifications that use post-nominal letters are an acknowledgement of educational achievement , or an agency appointed to safeguard  the  public interest .
Bugs Bunny is a funny  एनिमल कार्टून अक्षर , बेहतरीन remembered लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ in the looney धुनें और merrie melodies श्रेणी of नाट्य छोटी films उत्पादित by warner भाईs. दौरान the सुनहरी आयु of अमरीकी एनिमेशन .
His popularity during this era led to his  बनने  a corporate mascot of Warner Bros. Entertainment .
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray hare or rabbit who is famous for his flippant , personality , a pronounced New York accent , his portrayal as a trickster  , and  his catch phrase `` Eh ...
What 's up , doc ?  ''
( प्रायः  said while chewing a carrot ) .
Bugs has appeared in more films than any other cartoon character and is the  ninth  most portrayed film personality in the world .
According to his 1990 `` biography '' Bugs Bunny : 50 Years and Only One Grey Hare , Bugs  थी born  on July 27 , 1940 in Brooklyn , New York in a warren under Ebbets Field , home of the Brooklyn Dodgers .
In reality , he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. Cartoons ) : including Tex Avery , who directed Bugs ' early definitive short A  जंगली हरे ( 1940 ) ; रॉबर्ट mckimson , जो निर्मित बग ' निर्णायक अक्षर  design ; and Mel Blanc , who originated the voice of Bugs .
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa )  are linings of mostly  endodermal origin , covered in epithelium , which are involved in absorption and secretion .
They line cavities that  हैं  exposed to the external environment and internal organs .
They are at several places contiguous with skin : at the nostrils , the lips of the  मुँह , the eyelids , the  ears , the genital area , and the anus .
The sticky , thick fluid secreted by the mucous  झिल्लियों और ग्रंथियों is termed mucus  .
The term  श्लेष्मक झिल्ली refers to  where they are found in the body and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus .
The glans clitoridis , glans penis ( head of the penis )  ,  along with the inside of the foreskin and the clitoral hood , are mucous membranes .
The urethra is  भी  a mucous membrane .
The  स्रावित  mucus traps the pathogens in the body , preventing any further activities of diseases .
A master sergeant is the military rank for a  senior  non-commissioned officer in some armed forces .
केक is a रूप of ब्रैड or bread-like खाना .
In its modern forms ,  it is typically  a sweet baked dessert .
In its oldest  फ़ॉर्म , cakes  were normally fried breads or cheesecakes , and normally had a disk shape .
Determining whether a given food should be classified as bread , cake , or pastry  can be  difficult .
Modern cake , especially layer cakes , normally contain a  संयोजन of आटा , शुगर ,  eggs , and butter or oil , with some varieties also requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ) .
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées , nuts , dried or candied fruit ,  or extracts हैं प्रायः added  , and numerous substitutions for the primary ingredients are possible .
Cakes are often   filled with fruit preserves or dessert sauces ( like pastry cream ) , iced with buttercream or other icings , and decorated with marzipan , piped borders or candied fruit .
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at ceremonial occasions , particularly  विवाह  , anniversaries , and birthdays .
There are countless cake recipes ; some are bread-like , some rich and  विस्तृत  , and many are centuries old .
Cake making is no longer a complicated procedure ; while at  एक समय considerable  labor went into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ) , baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur cook may bake a cake .
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7 , 1942 – July 20 , 2007 ) was an American Christian singer , evangelist , entrepreneur , author , talk show host  , and  television personality .
वो थी शादीशुदा इससे 1961 to 1992 to televangelist , और बाद convicted felon , जिम bakker  .
She co-hosted  साथ  him on The PTL Club ( 1976–1987 ) .
She was a participant in  the 2004 ऋतु  of the reality show The Surreal Life .
Cambria is a village in Columbia County , Wisconsin ,  संयुक्त  States .
The population was 767 at  the  2010 census .
It is part of the  मैडिसन महानगर  Statistical Area .
Public policy is the principled guide to action taken by the administrative executive branches of the state with regard to a class of issues in a manner consistent with law and  संस्थागत कस्टम  .
In general , the  न्यास is  the pertinent national and substantial constitutional law and implementing legislation such as the US Federal code .
Further substrates include  both  judicial interpretations and regulations which are generally authorized by legislation .
Other scholars define it as a system of `` courses of  कार्रवाई , नियामक  measures , laws , and funding priorities concerning a given topic promulgated by a governmental entity or its representatives . ''
Public policy is commonly embodied `` in constitutions , legislative acts , and judicial  निर्णय  . ''
In the United States , this concept refers not only to the  परिणाम  of policies , but more broadly to the decision-making and analysis of governmental decisions .
As an academic discipline , public policy is studied by professors and students at public policy schools  of major  universities throughout the country .
The U.S. professional association of public policy practitioners , researchers , scholars , and students is the Association for  पब्लिक नीति विश्लेषण और प्रबन्धन  .
Digestion is the mechanical  and  chemical breakdown of food into smaller components that are more easily absorbed into a blood stream , for instance .
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a breakdown of   large food molecules to smaller ones .
When food enters the  मुँह , पाचन  of the food starts by the action of mastication , a form of mechanical digestion , and the wetting contact of saliva .
लार , a द्रव स्रावित by the salivary ग्रंथियों , contains salivary amylase , an एंजाइम जिससे starts the पाचन of मंड in the  food .
After undergoing mastication and starch  पाचन  , the food will be in the form of a small , round slurry mass called a bolus .
It will then travel  bas the  esophagus and into the stomach by the action of peristalsis .
gastric रस  in the stomach starts protein digestion .
gastric रस मुख्यतः  contains hydrochloric acid and pepsin .
As these two chemicals may damage the stomach wall , mucus is secreted by the stomach , providing a slimy layer that acts as a shield against the damaging effects  of  the chemicals .
At the same time protein digestion  is  occurring , mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis , which are waves of muscular contractions that move along the stomach wall .
इस  allows the mass of food to further mix with the digestive enzymes .
After some time ( typically an hour or two in humans , 4–6 hours in dogs , somewhat shorter duration  in  house cats ) , the resulting thick liquid is called chyme .
When the pyloric sphincter valve opens , chyme enters the duodenum where it  mixes साथ digestive  enzymes from the pancreas , and then passes through the small intestine , in which digestion continues .
When the chyme is fully digested , it is absorbed into the blood   .
95 % of absorption of nutrients  occurs in  the small intestine .
Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the blood in the colon ( large intestine ) where the pH is slightly  अम्लीय परिचय  5.6 ~ 6.9 .
Some vitamins , such as biotin and  विटामिन k  ( K2MK7 ) produced by bacteria in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon .
Waste material is eliminated from the  मलाशय  during defecation .
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28  January  1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later  किंग  , of Ireland , as well as continuing the nominal claim by the English monarchs to the Kingdom of France .
Henry was the second monarch of  the  Tudor dynasty , succeeding his father , Henry VII .
Besides his six  विवाह , हेनरी  VIII is known for his role in the separation of the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry 's  struggles  with Rome led to the separation of the Church of England from papal authority , the Dissolution of the Monasteries , and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
yet he remained a आस्तिक in कोर कैथोलिक theological शिक्षाओं , भी बाद उसके excommunication इससे the रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर .
हेनरी oversaw the विधिक संघ of इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स साथ the कानून in वेल्स अधिनियमों 1535 और 1542 .
in 1513 , the नई किंग अलाइड साथ the पावन रोमन सम्राट , maximillian i , और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल , well-equipped फौज , लकिन हासिल छोटी at a considerable वित्तीय लागत  .
Maximillian , for his part , used the English invasion   to his own ends , and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French .
This foray would prove the start of an obsession for Henry , who invaded again in  1544  .
This time  , Henry 's forces  captured the important city of Boulogne , but again the Holy Roman Emperor , Charles V , supported Henry only as long as he needed to and England , strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
His contemporaries considered Henry in his prime to be an attractive , educated and accomplished king , and he has been described as `` one of the  सबसे charismatic शासकों to बैठना on the अंग्रेज़ी सिंहासन  '' .
Besides ruling with absolute power , he also engaged  खुद as an लेखक  and composer .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed  a बेटी होता be असमर्थ to consolidate  the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became morbidly obese and his health  suffered  , contributing to his death in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised in his later life as a lustful ,  egotistical , हर्ष  , and insecure king .
Bongos ( Spanish : bongó ) are an Afro-Cuban  percussion यंत्र  .
The drums are of different size : the  larger ढोल  is called in Spanish the hembra ( female ) and the smaller the macho ( male ) .
They are membranophones , or instruments that create sound by a vibration of a stretched   membrane .
Different religious groups include different books in their Biblical   canons , in varying orders , and sometimes divide or combine books , or incorporate additional material into canonical books .
Christian Bibles range from the sixty-six books of the Protestant canon to the eighty-one books of the Ethiopian  परंपरागत  Tewahedo Church canon .
The Hebrew Bible , or Tanakh , contains twenty-four books divided into  three parts  ; the five books of the Torah ( `` teaching '' or `` law '' ) , the Nevi'im ( `` prophets '' ) , and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ) .
the पहला भाग of ईसाई bibles is the बूढ़ा वसीयत , जिससे contains , at न्यूनतम , the twenty-four किताबे of the यहूदी बाइबल विभाजित into thirty-nine किताबे और ordered differently इससे the यहूदी बाइबल .
The Catholic Church and Eastern Christian churches also hold certain deuterocanonical books  और passages to be भाग  of the Old Testament canon .
The second part is the New Testament , containing  twenty-seven किताबे ; the चार canonical gospels  , Acts of the Apostles , twenty-one Epistles or letters and the Book of Revelation .
The Eastern Orthodox ,  प्राच्य परंपरागत  and Eastern Catholic churches may have minor differences in their lists of accepted books .
The list given here for these churches is the   most inclusive : if at least one Eastern church accepts the book it is included here .
the नेशनल ध्वज of the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका , प्रायः बस referred to as the अमरीकी ध्वज , consists of तेरह बराबर आड़ा धारियाँ of रेड ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ श्वेत , साथ a ब्लू आयताकार in the कैण्टन ( referred to specifically as the `` संघ '' ) bearing पचास छोटी , श्वेत , five-pointed सितारों arranged in नौ ऑफसेट आड़ा पंक्ति of छह सितारों ( शीर्ष और नीचे ) प्रत्यावर्ती साथ  rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen  British  colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes  '' , `` बूढ़ा महिमा ``  , and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford , , also  ज्ञात as the  Dred Scott Decision , was a landmark decision by the U.S. Supreme Court .
It made  दो  main rulings .
the पहला सत्ताधारी थी कि african-americans यहूद नहीं नागरिकों , और इसलिए था no खड़ा to मुकदमा in संघीय अदालत  .
The second ruling was that the federal government had no power to regulate slavery in any territory acquired subsequent to the  creation of the United  States .
Given the first ruling , most scholars  and many  contemporary political figures ( including the leadership of the then-new Republican Party ) considered that the second ruling was not binding precedent , but mere dictum .
The rationale of the Supreme Court regarding the jurisdictional  सत्ताधारी implied  that people of African descent ( both slave and free ) were not protected by the Constitution and were not U.S. citizens .
Since passage of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution , both rulings are  superseded और no  longer valid precedent .
Nonetheless , the case retains historical significance as it is widely regarded as the worst   decision ever made by the Supreme Court .
The  opinion  of the court , written by Chief Justice Roger B. Taney , stirred debate .
The decision  थी 7–2 ,  and every Justice besides Taney wrote a separate concurrence or dissent .
For the first time since Marbury v. Madison , the Court held  an  Act of Congress to be unconstitutional .
Dred Scott , an African-American slave , had asked a United States Circuit Court to award him his freedom because he and his master had resided in a state  ( इलिनोइस ) और a territory ( विस्कॉन्सिन territory  ) where slavery had been banned .
Chief Justice Roger Taney , writing for the court , held that Scott , as a person of African ancestry , was not a citizen of the  संयुक्त  States and therefore had no right to sue in federal court .
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous states at the  time ,  particularly Free states , where free blacks did in fact enjoy the rights of citizens , such as the right to vote and hold public office .
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum , the Court went on to hold that Congress had no authority to prohibit slavery in federal territories   because slaves are personal property and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution protects property owners against deprivation of their property without due process of law .
In reaching this decision  , taney था hoped to settle  the growing controversy surrounding slavery in the United States , but it had the opposite effect .
The decision was fiercely debated across the country , as perhaps best exemplified by the  lincoln–douglas debates  of 1858 .
Abraham Lincoln , the second-ever Republican nominee for President , was able to win the presidential election in 1860 ; the stopping  of the further expansion of  slavery was a key Republican party plank .
The decision played an important role in the timing of state secession and the Civil War ,  although it is extreme to say the  decision `` caused '' the war .
The decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in altering the national political landscape : it is credited with launching Abraham Lincoln’s national political career and  ultimately  allowing for his election .
हालांकि the परम् अदालत रै never explicitly overruled the dred स्कॉट  case , the Court stated in the Slaughter-House Cases that at least one part of it had already been overruled by the Fourteenth Amendment in 1868 , which begins by stating , `` All persons born or naturalized in the United States , and subject to the jurisdiction thereof , are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside . ''
To which the  अदालत  noted:
The first observation we have to make on this  clause  is , that it puts at rest both the questions which we stated to have been the subject of differences of opinion .
It declares that persons may be citizens of the United States without regard to their citizenship of a particular State , and it overturns the Dred Scott decision by making all persons born within the United  States and subject to its  jurisdiction citizens of the United States .
There are dozens of neighborhoods in Columbus  , ओहियो  .
Some are hard to define , as they encompass large areas  विकसित at  different times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them .
Borders can also change based on popular understanding of the area , as  खूब  as the whims of the residents .
This article uses data from the Datasourcecolumbus Web site , Spotcrime.com , HelloColumbus.com , as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions  to define  the various areas .
Excerpts and border information are drawn directly from the main  आलेख  .
A biologist is a scientist  who  studies living organisms and their relationship to their environment .
Biologists involved in basic research attempt to  discover  underlying mechanisms that govern how organisms work .
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve medical , industrial or  agricultural प्रक्रियाओं  .
martinus  Willem Beijerinck , a botanist and microbiologist
Base jumping  इससे  a cliff in a wingsuit .
BASE jumping , also sometimes written as B.A.S.E . jumping , is an activity where participants jump from fixed objects and use a parachute  to break their  fall .
`` आधार '' is an एक्रोनिम कि स्टैंड लिये चार श्रेणी of फिक्स्ड वस्तुएँ इससे जिससे एक can जम्प : इमारतें , एन्टेना , spans ( पुलों ) , और धरती (  cliffs ) .
The British Shorthair is a domesticated cat whose features make it a popular breed in  बिल्ली shows  .
It has  महरूम the सबसे  popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's Governing Council of the Cat Fancy ( GCCF ) since 2001 , when it overtook the Persian breed .
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team , commonly known as the United States men 's national basketball team , represents  the संयुक्त राज्य  of America in international men 's basketball .
the यूएसए is the सबसे कामयाब टोली in अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिता , जीतना medals in सब सत्रह ओलम्पिक tournaments it रै डाला , coming दूर साथ  fourteen golds .
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960 team , which featured six Hall of Famers ( 4 players , 2 coaches ) , and the 1992 `` Dream Team '' , featuring 14 Hall of   Famers ( 11 players , 3 coaches ) .
The United States is  फिलहाल  ranked first in the FIBA World Rankings .
Traditionally composed of amateur players , a 1989 rule change by FIBA allowed USA  बास्केट to फ़ील्ड  teams with professional players .
The first such team , known as the `` Dream Team '' , won the gold medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona , Spain ,  playing  in the final against Croatia .
With the introduction of professionals , the team was able to spark a second run of dominance after capturing  only a  bronze medal in 1988 .
A team of professional players competed at the 1994 FIBA World  चैंपियनशिप , finishing  first .
In 1996  ,  2000 , 2008 , and 2012 the USA again captured gold medals .
Facing increased competition , the  यूएसए विफल  to win a medal at the 2002 FIBA World Championship , finishing sixth .
The 2004 Summer Olympic team lost three games on its way to a bronze medal , a record that represented  more losses in a single  year than the country 's Olympic teams had suffered in all previous Olympiads combined .
संकल्पित to put an समाप्त to ये असफलताओं , यूएसए बास्केट initiated a long-term प्रोजेक्ट aimed at बनाना बेहतर , अधिक cohesive  teams .
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006 FIBA World Championship in Japan before losing against Greece in the semi-finals ,   ending the competition with the bronze medal .
The USA won gold two years later , though , at the  2008  Summer Olympics with a dominant performance .
This  कामयाबी थी followed up at the 2010 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप , जहाँ despite क्षेत्ररक्षण a रोस्टर featuring no खिलाड़ी इससे the 2008 ओलम्पिक टोली , the यूएसए किया नहीं खोना a सिंगल खेल en रूट to defeating मेजबान तुर्कों लिये the सुनहरा पदक .
The USA continued this streak of dominance by going   undefeated and capturing gold once more at the 2012 Summer Olympics .
The Steelers Super Bowl XL   ring
Joe Theismann 's Super Bowl Ring (  सही  )
The Super Bowl ring is an award in the National Football  लीग  given to the winners of the league 's annual World Championship game , the Super Bowl .
Since only one Vince  लोम्बार्डी ट्रॉफी is awarded  to the team ( ownership ) itself , the Super Bowl ring offers a collectible memento for the actual players and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory .
Image  प्रर्दशित  the six most common speleothems with labels .
to view   labels .
The   Witch 's Finger in the Carlsbad Caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês , from σταλαγμίας - stalagmias , `` dropping , trickling '' ) is  a प्रकार of speleothem  that rises from the floor of a limestone cave due to the dripping of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate .
This stalagmite formation occurs only under certain pH conditions  within  the underground cavern .
The  सम्बन्धित  formation on the ceiling of a cave is known as a stalactite .
If these formations grow together , the result is  known as  a column .
The Hall of Giants in the  carlsbad caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched , since the rock buildup is formed by minerals precipitating out of the water solution onto  the old surface ;  skin oils can alter the surface where the mineral water will cling , thus affecting the growth of the formation .
Oils and dirt from human contact can also stain the  गठन और  change its color permanently .
Similar structures can also form in lava tubes , associated with  कुछ प्रकार of lavacicles  , although the mechanism of formation is very different .
Stalactites and stalagmites can also form on concrete ceilings and floors , although   they form much more rapidly there than in the natural cave environment .
The largest stalagmite in the world is high and is located in the cave of Cueva  मार्टिन  Infierno , Cuba .
In the Zagros Mountains of south Iran , approximately from the  प्राचीन  city of Bishapur , in the Shapur cave on the fourth of five terraces stands the 3rd century CE statue of Shapur I , second ruler of the Sassanid Empire .
The statue , carved from  एक  stalagmite , is nearly high .
How I Met Your  माँ is  an American sitcom that premiered on CBS on September 19 , 2005 .
The show  was  created by Craig Thomas and Carter Bays .
How I Met Your Mother is framed  by the year  2030 , when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers his daughter ( Lyndsy Fonseca ) and son ( David Henrie ) to tell them the story of how he met their mother .
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single , 27-year-old architect living with his two best friends from Wesleyan University , Marshall Eriksen  ( Jason Segel ) ,  a law student , and Lily Aldrin ( Alyson Hannigan ) , a kindergarten teacher , who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes .
Their engagement causes Ted to think about finding his own soul  mate , much  to the disgust of his friend Barney Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris ) , a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job .
और यूँ  , Ted begins his search for his perfect mate , and meets Robin Scherbatsky ( Cobie Smulders ) , whom he also befriends .
The 100th episode of How I Met Your Mother aired  on  January 11 , 2010 .
On  दिसम्बर  21 , 2012 , the series was renewed for a ninth season .
On  जनवरी  30 , 2013 , it was announced that Season 9 will be its final season .
Gringo ( , , ) is a slang Spanish and Portuguese word used in Ibero-America , to denote foreigners , often from  the  United States .
The term can be   applied to someone who is actually a foreigner , or it can denote a strong association or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture .
in  Spanish it does not have a negative connotation .
Roger Axtell ,  a सफर तहज़ीब  expert , notes that `` [ t ] he word gringo is not necessarily a bad word .
It is slang but is  अपमानजनक  only in its use and context . ''
The word was used in Spain long  पहले  it crossed the Atlantic to denote foreign , non-native speakers of Spanish .
The great white shark , Carcharodon carcharias , also known as the great white , white pointer , white shark , or white death , is a species of large lamniform  शार्क जिससे can be मिला in the तटीय सतह waters  of all the major oceans .
The great white shark is mainly known for its   size , with the largest individuals known to have approached or exceeded in length , and in weight .
This shark reaches its maturity  around 15 years  of age and can have a life span of over 30 years .
The great white shark is arguably  the  world 's largest known extant macropredatory fish , and is one of the primary predators of marine mammals .
It is also known to prey upon a variety of other marine  पशु , सहित मछली  and seabirds .
It is the only known surviving species of its genus Carcharodon , and is ranked first in having  the सबसे हमले  on humans .
The IUCN list  the ग्रेट  white shark as a vulnerable species , while it is included in Appendix II of CITES .
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter Benchley and the  subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर फिल्मी by स्टीवन  Spielberg depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious man eater `` .
In reality , humans are not the preferred prey of the great white   shark .
The United States Armed Forces are the military forces of the United  राज्य of  America .
They consist of the Army , Navy , Marine Corps , Air Force , and   Coast Guard .
The U.S. has a strong tradition of civilian   control of the military .
The President is the military 's overall head , and helps form military  policy with the U.S. Department of  Defense ( DoD ) , a federal executive department , acting as the principal organ by which military policy is carried out .
The DoD is headed by the Secretary of Defense , who is a civilian and   Cabinet member .
The Defense Secretary is second in the military 's chain of  कमांड  , just below the President , and serves as the principal assistant to the President in all DoD-related matters .
To coordinate military action with diplomacy , the President has an advisory National Security Council headed by a National  Security  Advisor .
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member Joint Chiefs of Staff , which includes the head of each of the Defense Department 's service   branches as well as the chief of the National Guard Bureau .
Leadership is  provided by the  Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
The Commandant of the Coast Guard  is  not a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
All of the branches work together during operations and joint missions , under the Unified Combatant Commands , under the authority of the Secretary  of Defense  with the exception of the Coast Guard .
The Coast Guard falls under the  प्रशासन  of the Department of Homeland Security and receives its operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security .
The Coast Guard may be  transferred  to the Department of the Navy by the President or Congress during a time of war .
All five armed services are among the seven uniformed services of the United States ; the others are the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the National Oceanic and  Atmospheric  Administration Commissioned Corps .
From the time of its inception , the military played a  निर्णायक भूमिका in the इतिहास  of the United States .
A sense of national unity  और पहचान थी forged  as a result of victory in the First Barbary War and the Second Barbary War .
Even so , the Founders were suspicious of a permanent military force  and not until  the outbreak of World War II did a large standing army become officially established .
The National Security Act of 1947 , adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset , created the modern U.S. military framework ; the Act merged previously Cabinet-level Department of War and the Department of the Navy into the National Military Establishment ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ) , headed by the Secretary of  रक्षा ;  and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council .
The U.S. military is one of the largest militaries in terms of  क्रमांक of  personnel .
It draws its manpower from a large pool of paid volunteers ; although conscription has been used in the past in various times of both war and peace , it has not been  प्रयुक्त चूंकि 1972 .
As of 2013 , the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund its  सैन्य शक्तियां , और  appropriates approximately $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations .
Put together , the U.S.  constitutes  roughly 43 percent of the world 's military expenditures .
The U.S. Armed Forces as a whole possess large  quantities of उन्नत  and powerful equipment , along with widespread placement of forces around the world , giving them significant capabilities in both defense and power projection .
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive   them .
The term freedom of expression  is sometimes प्रयुक्त  synonymously , but includes any act of seeking , receiving and imparting information or ideas , regardless of the medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and  the  right is commonly subject to limitations , as with libel , slander , obscenity , sedition ( including , for example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation , revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized  in  international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right  shall शामिल स्वतंत्रता  to seek , receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in writing or in print , in the form of art , or through any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to certain restrictions '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the   protection of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular   jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
The Big  बंग  Theory logo .
The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy television series created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre  and  Bill Prady .
Like the name of the series itself , with the exception of the first episode— '' Pilot '' —episode titles of The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त सदा प्रारंभ  with `` The '' and resemble the name of a scientific principle , theory or experiment , whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk .
, 133  एपीसोड  have aired .
The Big Bang Theory  रै  been renewed for a seventh season .
ड्वाइट दाउद  `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced , ; October 14 , 1890 – March 28 , 1969 ) was the 34th President of the United States from 1953 until 1961 .
He had  previously महरूम a five-star सामान्य in the संयुक्त राज्य फौज दौरान संसार युद्ध ii और परोसा as परम् कमांडर of the अलाइड शक्तियां in यूरोपीय ; he था जिम्मेदारी लिये नियोजन और supervising the आक्रमण of उत्तर अफ़्रीकी in आपरेशन मशाल in 1942–43 और the कामयाब आक्रमण of फ़्रांस और जर्मनी in 1944–45 इससे the पश्चिमी सामने .
In 1951 , he became the first supreme  कमांडर  of NATO .
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry and was reared in a large family in Kansas by parents with a robust work ethic and  धार्मिक  background .
As one of six sons , he was conditioned by a  प्रतिस्पर्धी माहौल  which instilled self-reliance .
He  attended और  graduated from West Point and later married and had two sons .
After World War II , Eisenhower   served as Army Chief of Staff under President Harry S. Truman , then assumed the post of President at Columbia University .
Eisenhower entered the 1952 presidential race  as a रिपब्लिकन  to counter the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft and to crusade against `` Communism , Korea and corruption '' .
He won by a landslide , defeating Democrat Adlai Stevenson and ending two decades of the New  सौदे गठबन्धन  .
In the first year of his presidency , Eisenhower deposed the leader of Iran in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état and used nuclear threats  to  conclude the Korean War with China .
His New Look policy  of nuclear deterrence gave  priority to inexpensive nuclear weapons while reducing the funding for conventional military forces ; the goal was to keep pressure on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits .
In 1954 , Eisenhower first articulated the domino theory in his description of  the threat  presented by the spread of communism .
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution , which enabled him  to prevent  Chinese communist aggression against Chinese nationalists and established the U.S. policy of defending Taiwan .
When the Soviets  शुभारम्भ sputnik  in 1957 , he had to play catch-up in the space race .
आइज़नहावर  forced Israel , the UK , and France to end their invasion of Egypt during the Suez Crisis of 1956 .
In 1958  , he  sent 15,000 US troops to Lebanon to prevent the pro-Western government from falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution .
Near the end of his term , his efforts to set up a summit  बैठक  with the Soviets collapsed because of the U-2 incident .
On the domestic front , he covertly opposed Joseph  मैकार्थी और  contributed to the end of McCarthyism by openly invoking the modern expanded version of executive privilege .
He otherwise left most political activity to  उसके वाइस अध्यक्ष  , Richard Nixon .
He was a  मॉडरेट रूढ़िवादी  who continued New Deal agencies and expanded Social Security .
Among his enduring innovations , he launched the Interstate Highway System ; the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency ( DARPA ) , which led to the internet , among many invaluable outputs ; the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) , driving peaceful discovery in space ; the establishment of strong science education via the National  रक्षा शिक्षा अधिनियम ; और प्रोत्साहित  peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act .
In social policy , he sent federal troops to Little  चट्टान , अरकंसास , लिये the  first time since Reconstruction to enforce federal court orders to desegregate public schools .
He also signed civil rights   legislation in 1957 and 1960 to protect the right to vote .
he implemented desegregation of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां in दो सालो और बना पाँच नियुक्ति to the परम् अदालत .
He was the first term-limited president in accordance with  the  22nd Amendment .
Eisenhower 's two terms were peaceful ones for the most part and saw considerable economic prosperity  मगर लिये a शार्प  recession in 1958–59 .
Eisenhower is often  क्रमित  highly among the U.S. Presidents .
एयर फ़ोर्स एक is the आधिकारिक एयर ट्रैफ़िक  control call sign of a United States Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the United States .
In common parlance the term refers to those Air Force aircraft specifically designed ,   built , and used for the purpose of transporting the president .
The Presidential aircraft is a prominent symbol of the American presidency and  इसके  power .
The idea of designating specific military aircraft to transport the President arose in 1943 , when officials of the United States Army Air Forces – the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force – became concerned with relying on commercial  एयरलाइंस to हस्तांतरण  the President .
A C-87 Liberator  Express was reconfigured for use as a  presidential transport ; however , it was rejected by the Secret Service amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety record .
A C-54 Skymaster was then converted for presidential use ; this aircraft , dubbed the Sacred Cow , transported President Franklin D. Roosevelt to the Yalta Conference in  February 1945 ,  and was subsequently used for another two years by President Harry S. Truman .
The ``  एयर फ़ोर्स एक '' कॉल चिह्न थी निर्मित बाद a 1953 घटना दौरान जिससे a उड़ान carrying अध्यक्ष ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर डाला the वही airspace as a वाणिज्यिक एयरलाइन उड़ान using the वही कॉल चिह्न .
Several aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the creation of the presidential fleet , including two Boeing 707s introduced in  the 1960s और 1970s , क्रमशः  ; since 1990 , the presidential fleet has consisted of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically configured , highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft .
The Air Force is  looking  into replacing the two VC-25 aircraft with three replacement aircraft beginning in 2017 .
A wedding anniversary is the anniversary of the date a wedding took place   .
परंपरागत names मौजूद लिये सबसे of उन्हें : लिये उदाहरण , 50 सालो of विवाह is पुकारा a `` सुनहरी विवाह वर्षगांठ '' or बस a `` सुनहरी वर्षगांठ  '' .
A scanner with  duplexing  Automatic Document Feeder .
In multifunction or all-in-one printers , fax machines , photocopiers and scanners , an automatic document feeder or ADF is a feature which takes several pages and feeds the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier , allowing the  उपयोक्ता  to scan , and thereby copy , print , or fax , multiple-page documents without having to manually replace each page .
Most copiers allow scanning on the flatbed or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through  a  document feeder .
The vast majority of fax machines have an ADF , allowing the unattended sending of  multi-page faxes  .
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines , some fax machine owners use   the fax machine as a scanner , faxing multi-page documents to themselves .
Document feeders are described by speed , in pages per minute or ppm , and capacity ,  प्रायः  in a range from 10 sheets to 200 .
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of  two-sided  ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing automatic document feeder or RADF scans one side of a page , then flips it and scans the other side .
A duplexing automatic document feeder or DADF scans  दोनो  sides in one pass .
The advantage of the DADF is faster speed for two-sided   originals .
RADFs and DADFs are rated in images  प्रति मिनट ( ipm  ) , the number of sides they can scan each minute .
Fair Park is a recreational and  शैक्षणिक जटिल  located in Dallas , Texas ( USA ) .
The complex is registered as a  डलास लैंडमार्क , नेशनल  Historic Landmark and is home to nine museums , six performance facilities , a lagoon , and the largest Ferris wheel in North America .
Many of the buildings on the complex were constructed  for  the Texas Centennial Exposition in 1936 which drew over six million visitors .
Most of the buildings built for  the  exposition still survive and it is recognized as a significant example of Art Deco architecture .
Fair Park has been designated a Great Place   in America by the American Planning Association .
The American Planning Association (  APA ) “is an  independent , not-for-profit educational organization that provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great Places in American program helps to celebrate areas  साथ “exemplary  character , quality , and planning.”
Being designated as a  Great  Place in America , Fair Park was one of only ten cities chosen in 2011 .
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph ) is the third-largest city in California , the tenth-largest in the U.S. , and the county seat of Santa Clara County  जिससे is स्तिथ  at the southern end of San Francisco Bay .
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley , which is a major component of the greater San Francisco Bay Area , a region of 8.4  लाख लोगों और the पांचवां largest  metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States .
It is the largest city in Northern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
San Jose was founded on November 29 ,  1777 , as  El Pueblo de San José de Guadalupe , the first civilian town in the Spanish colony of Nueva California , which later became Alta California .
The  नगर  served as a farming community to support Spanish military installations at San Francisco and Monterey .
When California gained statehood in 1850 ,  सैन  Jose served as its first capital .
After more than 150 years as a small farming city , San Jose and the surrounding  सांता क्लारा  Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay .
San Jose experienced increased demand for housing from soldiers and  दिग्गजों  returning from World War II .
San Jose then continued its aggressive expansion during the 1950s and 1960s by annexing  अधिक जमीन क्षेत्रफल .
The rapid growth of the high-technology and electronics industries further accelerated the transition from an agricultural center , to  an  urbanized metropolitan area .
By the 1990s , San Jose 's location within the booming local technology industry earned the city  इसके उपनाम  , Capital of Silicon Valley .
San  जोस अभी maintains वैश्विक नगर औकात  and is the largest city in the San Francisco Bay Area in terms of population , land area , and industrial development .
The U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau reported the population of the city to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census .
As  of अप्रैल 2013  , the estimated population of San Jose was 984,000 .
San Jose , along with  the Santa Clara Valley ,  experienced about half a century of spectacular suburban sprawl , with characteristics of intense urbanization similar to the Los Angeles area of Southern California .
The city has taken definite steps  to avoid बनने  `` L.A. North '' .
However , the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los Angeles by measures such as  जनसांख्यिकी  density and public transit safety , investment , and ridership .
Europe depicted by Antwerp cartographer Abraham  ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European continent since it was first populated in prehistoric times to  उपस्थित , साथ  the first Homo sapiens arriving between 45,000 and 25,000 BC .
The earliest settlers to Prehistoric Europe came during the  paleolithic era  .
The arrival of agriculture around 7000 BC  ushered  in the neolithic age .
Neolithic Europe lasted for 4000 years , overlapping  साथ  metal-using cultures that gradually spread throughout the continent .
Technological  अग्रिम  during the prehistoric age tended to arrive from the Middle East , spreading gradually to the northwest .
कुछ of the best-known सभ्यताओं  of prehistoric Europe were Minoan and Mycenaean , which flourished during the Bronze Age until they collapsed in a short period of time around 1200 BC .
The period known as classical antiquity began with the rise of the city-states of Ancient   Greece .
Greek influence reached its zenith under the expansive empire of Alexander the  ग्रेट , spreading throughout  Asia .
Northern and western Europe were dominated by the La Tène culture , a  precursor to the  Celts .
Rome , a small city-state traditionally founded in 753 BC , would grow to become the Roman Republic in 509 BC and  होता सफल यूनानी  culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization .
The events of the rule of Julius Caesar led to reorganization of the  गणतंत्र  into the Roman Empire .
The empire was later divided by the emperor Diocletian into the Western and  पूर्वी  empires .
During the later years of the Roman  साम्राज्य , the germanic peoples of उत्तरी  Europe grew in strength and repeated attacks led to the Fall of the Western Roman Empire in AD 476 , a date which traditionally marks the end of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages .
During the Middle Ages , the Eastern Roman Empire survived  ,  though modern historians refer to this state as the Byzantine Empire .
In  Western  Europe , Germanic peoples moved into positions of power in the remnants of the former Western Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own .
Of all of the Germanic peoples , the Franks would rise to a position of Hegemony over western Europe , the Frankish Empire reaching its peak under Charlemagne  around  AD 800 .
Francia was divided into several parts ; West Francia would evolve into the Kingdom of France , while East Francia would evolve into the Holy Roman Empire  , a precursor to modern  Germany .
the  British Isles were the site of several large-scale migrations .
Native Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the period of Roman Britain , and when the Romans abandoned the British Isles during the 400s , waves of Germanic Anglo-Saxons  migrated to दक्षिणी  Britain and established a series of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927 .
During this period , the Kingdom of Poland and Kingdom of Hungary ( 1000–1945  )  were organized as well .
the viking आयु , a काल of migrations of scandinavian peoples , वर्चस्व the काल इससे the लेट 700s to the मध्य 1000s  .
Chief among the Viking states was the Empire   of Cnut the Great , a Danish leader who would become king of England , Denmark , and Norway .
The Normans , a Viking people who settled in Northern France and founded the Duchy of Normandy , would have a significant impact on many parts of Europe , from the Norman  conquest  of England to Southern Italy and Sicily .
Another Scandinavian people , the Rus ' people , would go on to found Kievan Rus ' , an early state which was a precursor for the modern  देश  of Russia .
As the Viking Age drew to a close , the period known as the Crusades , a series of religiously-motivated military expeditions originally intended  to  bring the Levant back into Christian rule , began .
Several Crusader states were  संस्थापित  in the eastern Mediterranean .
These were all  short-lived  .
The Crusaders would have a profound impact on   many parts of Europe .
Their Sack of  कुस्तुंतुनिया  in 1204 brought an abrupt end to the Byzantine Empire .
Extinct dog breeds is a compilation of dog breeds that have become  विलुप्त  .
Wii Speak is a microphone  accessory  for Nintendo 's Wii video game console .
Connected to the console via USB , the device can be  लगाई निकट the वीडियो  display , allowing voice chat to be conducted with the entire room .
The device features an LED to indicate when the microphone is  क्रियाशील  .
Wii Speak was announced  at निन्टेंडो  's 2008 E3 media briefing .
it थी released separately और bundled साथ एनिमल क्रासिंग : नगर लोक on नवम्बर 16 , 2008 , in उत्तर अमेरिका , और थी released on दिसम्बर 5 , 2008 , in यूरोपीय  .
The Wii Speak accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the Wii U 's  gamepad नियंत्रक  .
Nissan  बुद्धिमान  Key®
A smart key is  an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अभिगम और प्राधिकरण प्रणाली जिससे is उपलब्धियाँ as an विकल्प or मानक in अनेक गाड़ियाँ .
It was first developed by Siemens in the mid-1990s and introduced by Mercedes-Benz under the name `` Keyless Go '' in 1998 on the W220 S-Class following its design patent  दायर by daimler-benz  on May 17 , 1997 .
Univisión ( ) is a Spanish-language television network   in the United States .
The network is primarily   dedicated for Latin American families who reside in the United States .
It has the largest  दर्शक  of Spanish-language television viewers in the world according to Nielsen ratings .
Randy Falco , ( CEO as of June 29 , 2011 ) COO  , has been in  charge of the company since the departure of Univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010 .
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major English-language television networks , and is often a strong fifth , outranking The CW , with some fourth-place weekly placings , and as of 2012 , even first place rankings for individual programs over all five English networks due to the network 's  consistent  schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year .
Univisión is headquartered in New York , and has its major  studios ,  production facilities , and operations in Doral , Florida , a suburb of Miami .
In 2009 , another television studio was   announced , Univision Studios , to be built in Doral .
Univision is available on cable and satellite in  सबसे of  the country , with local stations in over 50 markets with large Hispanic and Latino populations and a national cable network feed distributed in markets without either the availability or the demand for a locally-based station .
सबसे of ये स्टेशन एयर पूरा लोकल न्यूज और अन्य लोकल प्रोग्रामिंग in जोड to संजाल shows , और in प्रमुख बाज़ार ऐसे as लॉस एंजिल्स , नई यॉर्क , और मियामी the लोकल newscasts carried by the संजाल 's owned-and-operated स्टेशन ( o & o ) स्टेशन हैं बराबर प्रतिस्पर्धी साथ उनके english-language counterparts ratings-wise  .
Univisión was acquired on March 29 , 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban Capital Group ( who had previously owned the entity Saban Entertainment ) , TPG Capital , L.P. , Providence Equity Partners , Madison Dearborn Partners , and Thomas H.  ली  Partners for $ 13.7 billion or $ 36.25 per share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt .
The buyout left the company with a debt level of twelve times its annual cash flow , which was twice the norm in  buyouts किया  over the previous two years .
कलाकार 's धारणा of a आदिग्रह डिस्क
the गठन और of the सौर प्रणाली is अनुमानित to have begun 4.6 अरब सालो पहले साथ the गुरुत्वाकर्षक पतन of a छोटी भाग of a दानव आणविक बादल  .
Most of the collapsing mass collected  in the centre , forming the  Sun , while the rest flattened into a protoplanetary disk out of which the planets , moons , asteroids , and other small Solar System bodies formed .
This widely accepted model , known as the nebular hypothesis , was first developed in the 18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg  ,  Immanuel Kant , and Pierre-Simon Laplace .
Its subsequent development  has  interwoven a variety of scientific disciplines including astronomy , physics , geology , and planetary science .
Since the dawn of the space age in the 1950s and the discovery of extrasolar planets in the 1990s , the model has been both  challenged और परिष्कृत  to account for new observations .
The Solar System has evolved considerably  चूंकि इसके  initial formation .
Many moons have formed from circling discs of gas and dust around their parent planets , while other  moons हैं विचार to  have formed independently and later been captured by their planets .
Still others , as the Earth 's Moon , may be the  परिणाम  of giant collisions .
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the present day and have been central to the evolution of the Solar   System .
The positions of the planets often shifted , and  ग्रह have  switched places .
This planetary migration is now thought to have been responsible for much of the  Solar  System 's early evolution .
In roughly 5 billion years , the Sun will cool and expand outward many times its current diameter ( becoming a red giant ) , before casting off its outer layers as a planetary nebula and leaving  behind a stellar  remnant known as a white dwarf .
In the far distant future , the gravity of passing  सितारों होगा धीरे  reduce the Sun 's retinue of planets .
Some planets will be  नष्ट  , others ejected into interstellar space .
Ultimately , over the course of tens of billions of years , it is likely that the Sun will be left with  none  of the original bodies in orbit around it .
The Trial ( Kafka 's original German title :  , later as ,  and ) is a novel written by Franz Kafka in 1914 and 1915 but not published until 1925 .
One of Kafka 's best-known works , it tells the story of a man  गिरफ्तार और  prosecuted by a remote , inaccessible authority , with the nature of his crime revealed to neither him nor the reader .
Like Kafka 's other novels , The Trial was never  समाप्त  , although it does include a chapter which brings the story to an end .
Because of this there are certain inconsistencies which exist within the novel , such as disparities in timing in addition to other  discontinuities  in narration .
After Kafka  's  death in 1924 his friend and literary executor Max Brod edited the text for publication by Verlag Die Schmiede .
The original  पाण्डुलिपि  is held at the Museum of Modern Literature , Marbach am Neckar , Germany .
In 1999 , the book was listed in Le Mondes 100 Books of the Century  और as no . 2 of the बेहतरीन जर्मनी  Novels of the Twentieth Century .
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March 11 , 1968 ) is an  अमरीकी  singer-songwriter and actress .
She launched  her career in 1994  with the song , `` Stay ( I Missed You ) `` , which was included in the film Reality Bites .
वो थी  the first artist to have a number one single in the United States while not signed to a recording contract .
Her five studio CDs include her major label debut , the gold-selling Tails and its follow-up , the Grammy-nominated   , gold-selling Firecracker .
Loeb   has also worked in film , television , voice-over work and children’s recordings .
Loeb has appeared in two television  श्रेणी , dweezil  & Lisa , a weekly culinary adventure for the Food Network and Number 1 Single , a reality show on the E !
Network in 2006 focused on her quest for love , success , career   , and family .
Her children 's music  शामिल  the albums Catch the Moon ( 2003 ) , and Camp Lisa ( 2008 ) .
Her first joint children 's book  और एल्बम  Lisa Loeb 's Silly Sing-Along : The Disappointing Pancake and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011 .
In 2010 she founded the Lisa Loeb Eyewear Collection , which is  आधारित  on her own designs .
The Coat of arms of the State  of नई जर्सी  includes:
A shield with three plows emblazoned ,  प्रतिनिधि  of New Jersey 's agricultural tradition .
A forward-facing knight  's  helmet .
A horse 's head as the crest of  the हेल्मेट  .
The female figures Liberty and  ceres  , representative of the state 's motto ( see next item ) .
Liberty is holding  a staff supporting a ``  liberty cap `` ; Ceres is holding an overflowing cornucopia .
The streamer at the foot of the emblem contains the  राज्य  Motto of New Jersey , `` Liberty and Prosperity '' , and the year of statehood , 1776 .
It was originally designed by  पियरे  Eugene du Simitiere in 1777 and was modified slightly in 1928 .
The seal is the central motif in the flag of New Jersey and the Great Seal of the  State  of New Jersey .
The Coat of arms contains a  घोड़ा  's head .
A helmet showing that  नई जर्सी  governs itself accordingly and three plows on a shield referring to the State 's agriculture tradition , giving it the nickname `` Garden State '' .
The two Goddesses represent the State motto , ``  स्वतंत्रता और समृद्धि  '' .
Liberty is  on  the left .
She is holding a staff with a liberty cap on it , and the   word liberty underneath her .
The goddess on the right is Ceres  , देवी  of agriculture .
She is holding a cornucopia with prosperity  लिखा  below her .
According to the  मिनट्स  of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11 , 1896 , the date in which the Assembly officially approved the flag as the state emblem , the buff color is due indirectly to George Washington , who had ordered on October 2 , 1779 , that the uniform coats of the New Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue , with buff facings .
Buff-colored facings had until then been reserved only for his own uniform and   those of other Continental generals and their aides .
Then , on February 28 , 1780 , the Continental War Officers in Philadelphia directed that the uniform coat facings of all regiments were to be the same as the background color  of the  regiments ' state flag .
The seal  is  described in New Jersey statute Title 52 , §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out '' is a song by the Beatles , written by Paul  mccartney  and John Lennon .
It was released as a `` double A-sided `` single with `` Day Tripper `` , the first time both sides of a  सिंगल यहूद so designated in an  initial release .
Both   songs were recorded during the Rubber Soul sessions .
The song is an example of Lennon–McCartney  सहयोग at  a depth that happened only rarely after they wrote the hit singles of 1963 .
This song , `` A Day in the Life `` , ``  baby , तुम 're  a Rich Man `` and `` I 've Got a Feeling `` , are among the notable exceptions .
As a medical diagnosis , pedophilia or paedophilia is a psychiatric disorder in persons 16 years of age or older typically characterized by a primary or exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger , though  विशिष्ट निदान  criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ) .
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or older must be at least five years older than the prepubescent  child  before the attraction can be diagnosed as pedophilia .
The term has a range of  परिभाषाएं , as मिला  in psychiatry , psychology , the vernacular , and law enforcement .
The  International  Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder of adult personality and behaviour '' in which there is a sexual preference for children of prepubertal or early pubertal age .
According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM ) , it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 years of age or older have intense and recurrent sexual urges towards and fantasies about prepubescent children that they have either acted on or which cause them distress or  interpersonal  difficulty .
In  लोकप्रिय उपयोग , pedophilia अर्थात् कोई यौन ब्याज in children or the अधिनियम of चाइल्ड यौन गाली , प्रायः termed `` pedophilic बर्ताव '' .
For example , The American  विरासत  Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states , `` Pedophilia is the act or fantasy on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children . ''
This common use application also extends to the sexual interest in and sexual  सम्पर्क साथ रोमिल  or post-pubescent minors .
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although people who commit child sexual abuse commonly exhibit the disorder , some offenders do not meet the clinical diagnosis standards for pedophilia and these standards pertain to  prepubescents .
Additionally   , not all pedophiles actually commit such abuse .
Pedophilia was first formally recognized and named   in the late 19th century .
A significant amount of research in the area has  लिया  place since the 1980s .
Although mostly documented in men ,  वहीँ हैं भी महिलाओं  who exhibit the disorder , and researchers assume available estimates underrepresent the true number of female pedophiles .
No cure for pedophilia has been developed , but there are therapies that can reduce the incidence of a person   committing child sexual abuse .
In the United  राज्य , following कान्सास v. hendricks , sex अपराधियों जो हैं diagnosed साथ निश्चित दिमागी विकार , विशेषकर pedophilia , can be विषय to indefinite सिविल प्रतिबद्धता , अंतर्गत विभिन्न राज्य कानून ( generically पुकारा svp कानून ) और the संघीय आदम वाल्श चाइल्ड सुरक्षा और सुरक्षा अधिनियम of 2006 .
at उपस्थित , the सटीक कल्याणकारी of pedophilia have नहीं महरूम conclusively स्थापित  .
Research suggests that pedophilia  may be correlated  with several different neurological abnormalities , and often co-exists with other personality disorders and psychological pathologies .
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement , a variety of typologies have been suggested to categorize pedophiles according to behavior and  motivations  .
Julio  César Chávez (  born Julio César Chávez González on July 12 , 1962 ) is a retired Mexican professional boxer .
Chávez is considered by many people for their sport  आंकडे the महानतम  fighter ever to come out of Mexico .
He is a six-time world champion in three weight divisions , and for several years he was considered one of the best pound-for-pound boxer  in  the world .
In a career that spanned over 25 years , Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions : WBC Super   Featherweight in 1984 , WBA Lightweight in 1987 , WBC Lightweight in 1988 , WBC Light Welterweight in 1989 , IBF Light Welterweight in 1990 , and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994 .
He holds records for most successful consecutive   defenses of world titles ( 27 ) , most title fights ( 37 ) , most title-fight victories ( 31 ) and he is after Joe Louis with ( 23 ) for most title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ) .
Chávez also has the  longest  undefeated streak in boxing history , 13 years .
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to Frankie  रान्डेल  and had an 87 fight win streak until his `` draw '' with Whitaker .
Julio César Chávez was known for his  बकाया  punching power , devastating body attack , remarkably strong chin and the relentless stalking of his opponents .
He ranks # 24 on ESPN 's  50  Greatest Boxers Of All Time .
On  दिसम्बर  7 , 2010 , he was inducted in the prestigious International Boxing Hall of Fame for the Class of 2011 .
He is the father of  prospect  Omar Chávez and former WBC Middleweight Champion Julio César Chávez , Jr .
`` Selektion `` on the  judenrampe , auschwitz  , May/June 1944 .
to be भेजा to the सही meant स्लेव मजदूर ; to the बाएँ , the गैस कक्ष .
This image  shows the  arrival of Hungarian Jews from Carpatho-Ruthenia , many of them from the Berehov ghetto .
The  फ़ोटोग्राफ़र थी अर्नस्ट hofmann or बर्नहार्ड वाल्टर of the ss . चित्र सौजन्य of yad vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos , `` whole '' and kaustós , `` burnt '' ) also known as the Shoah ( Hebrew : , HaShoah , `` catastrophe '' ;  यहूदी : , churben or hurban , इससे the यहूदी लिये `` विनाश  '' ) , was the mass murder or genocide of approximately six million Jews during World War II , a programme of systematic state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany , led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party , throughout German-occupied territory .
Of the   nine million Jews who had resided in Europe before the Holocaust , approximately two-thirds were killed .
Over one million Jewish children were killed in the Holocaust , as were approximately two million Jewish  महिलाओं और तीन लाख यहूदी मेन  .
A network of over 40,000 facilities in  जर्मनी और  German-occupied territory were used to concentrate , hold , and kill Jews and other victims .
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition , and some use the common noun `` holocaust '' to describe other Nazi mass murders , including those of Soviet prisoners of war , Polish and Soviet civilians , and  homosexuals  .
Recent estimates based on figures obtained  चूंकि the  fall of the Soviet Union indicates some ten to eleven million civilians and prisoners of war were intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime .
The persecution and  नरसंहार  were carried out in stages .
Various laws to remove the Jews from civil society , most prominently the Nuremberg Laws , were enacted in Germany years before the  outbreak  of World War II .
विशेषज्ञता शिविरों यहूद स्थापित  in which inmates were subjected to slave labor until they died of exhaustion or disease .
Where Germany conquered new territory in eastern   Europe , specialized units called Einsatzgruppen murdered Jews and political opponents in mass shootings .
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined in overcrowded ghettos before being transported by freight train to extermination camps where , if they survived the journey , most were systematically  killed  in gas chambers .
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the logistics that  led  to the genocides , turning the Third Reich into what one Holocaust scholar has called `` a genocidal state '' .
4-H in the United States is a youth organization administered by the National Institute of Food and Agriculture of the United States Department of Agriculture (  यूएसडीए ) , साथ the मिशन of `` engaging युवावस्था to पहुँचें उनके fullest  potential while advancing the field of youth development . ''
The name represents four personal development areas of focus  लिये the संगठन  : head , heart , hands , and health .
The organization has over 6.5 million members in the United States , from ages five to twenty-one , in  लगभग 90,000 क्लब  .
The  लक्ष्य of 4-h is to develop नागरिकता , नेतृत्व , जिम्मेदारी और जीवन कौशल of युवावस्था through experiential सीखना कार्यक्रम और a धनात्मक युवावस्था विकास दृष्टिकोण .
Though typically thought of as an agriculturally focused organization as a result of its history , 4-H today focuses on citizenship ,  स्वस्थ जीना  , science , engineering , and technology programs .
Today , 4-H and related programs exist in over eighty countries around the world ;  the संगठन  and administration varies from country to country .
Each  of  these programs operates independently , but cooperatively through international exchanges , global education programs , and communications .
The 4-H motto is `` To make the best better ''  , while  its slogan is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ) .
The national flag of Chile , consists of two unequal horizontal bands of white and red and a blue square the same height as  the श्वेत बैंड in the कैण्टन ,  which bears a white five-pointed star in the center .
It was  अपनाया  on 18 October 1817 .
The Chilean flag is also known in Spanish as La Estrella Solitaria (  the लोन  Star ) .
the स्टार represents a मार्गदर्शिका to प्रगति और सम्मान ; ब्लू symbolizes the आसमान और the प्रशांत समंदर , श्वेत is लिये the snow-covered andes , और रेड स्टैंड लिये the रक्त spilled to achieve स्वतंत्रता  .
According to the epic poem La Araucana , the colors were derived from those from the flag flown by   the Mapuche during the Arauco War .
`` Flag Day '' is held each year on the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who died in the  1882 बैटल  of La Concepción .
Generation Y , also known as the Millennial  पीढी  , is the demographic cohort following Generation X .
There are  no precise  dates for when Generation Y starts and ends .
टीकाकारों उपयोग शुरूआत  birth dates from the latter 1970s , or from the early 1980s to the early 2000s .
The Torches of Nero , by  henryk siemiradzki  .
According to Tacitus  , नीरो  targeted Christians as those responsible for the fire .
The Great Fire of Rome ( ) was an urban fire that occurred  शुरूआत 19 जुलाई  AD 64 .
Virginia ( ) , officially the Commonwealth of Virginia , is a U.S. state  स्तिथ in the  South Atlantic region of the United States .
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion '' and the `` Mother of  राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद the आठ  U.S. presidents born there .
The geography and climate of the Commonwealth are shaped by the Blue Ridge Mountains and the Chesapeake  Bay  , which provide habitat for much of its flora and fauna .
The capital of the Commonwealth is Richmond ; and Virginia Beach is the   most populous city .
फेयरफैक्स  County is the most populous political subdivision .
The  wealthiest  is Loudoun County .
The  राष्ट्रमंडल  's population is over eight million .
The area 's history begins with several indigenous groups , including the  powhatan .
In 1607   the London Company established the Colony of Virginia as the first permanent New World English colony .
Slave labor and the land acquired from displaced Native American tribes   each played a significant role in the colony 's early politics and plantation economy .
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American  Revolution and joined the Confederacy in  the American Civil War , during which Richmond was made the Confederate capital and Virginia 's northwestern counties seceded to form the state of West Virginia .
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction , both major  national parties  are competitive in modern Virginia .
The Virginia General Assembly is  the  oldest legislature in the Western Hemisphere .
The state government has been repeatedly ranked most effective by the Pew   Center on the States .
It is unique in how it  ट्रीट  cities and counties equally , manages local roads , and prohibits its governors from serving consecutive terms .
Virginia 's economy has many sectors : agriculture in the Shenandoah Valley ; federal agencies in Northern Virginia , including the headquarters of the  Department  of Defense and CIA ; and military facilities in Hampton Roads , the site of the region 's main seaport .
Virginia 's public schools and many colleges and universities have  contributed  to growing media and technology sectors .
as a परिणाम , कंप्यूटर चिप्स have become the राज्य 's अग्रणी निर्यात  .
Windows   Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie Maker , codenamed Sundance ) is a freeware video editing software by Microsoft .
It is a part of Windows Essentials software suite and offers the ability to create and edit videos as well as to publish them on SkyDrive , Facebook , YouTube  , and  Flickr .
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut single by Tupac Shakur , and tenth  track from  his debut album , 2Pacalypse Now .
The song , which  features R & B singer  Dave Hollister , is about a twelve year-old girl named Brenda who lives in a ghetto , has a baby , and is incapable of supporting it .
The song explores the issue of teen pregnancy and its effect   on the young mothers and their families .
जैसे अनेक of shakur 's गीतों , `` ब्रेंडा 's मिला a baby '' draws इससे the दुर्दशा of the impoverished .
using ब्रेंडा to represent यंग माताओं in सामान्य , shakur criticises the कम स्तर of support इससे the baby 's पिता , the सरकारी , और समाज in सामान्य .
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper  आलेख परिचय a twelve-year-old  girl who got pregnant from her cousin and , because she did not want her parents to know about the baby , threw it in a trash can .
The official logo of Pokémon for its international release ;  `` पोकीमॉन  '' is short for the original Japanese title of `` Pocket Monsters '' .
is a media franchise published and owned by Japanese video game company Nintendo  और निर्मित by सातोशी  Tajiri in 1996 .
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable Game Boy role-playing video games developed by Game  freak , पोकीमॉन रै चूंकि  become the second-most successful and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world , behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise .
पोकीमॉन गुण have चूंकि महरूम merchandised into दुश्मनी , manga , व्यापार ताश , खिलौने , किताबे , और अन्य मीडिया .
The franchise celebrated in 2006 , and , cumulative sales of the  वीडियो खेल  ( including home console versions , such as the `` Pikachu '' Nintendo 64 ) have reached more than 200 million copies .
In November 2005 , 4Kids Entertainment , which had managed the  non-game related  licensing of Pokémon , announced that it had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation agreement .
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The  पोकीमॉन कम्पनी अंतरराष्ट्रीय  ) , a subsidiary of Japan 's Pokémon Co. , now oversees all Pokémon licensing outside of Asia .
The name Pokémon is the romanized contraction of the Japanese   brand .
The term Pokémon , in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself , also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as of the release of the fifth generation titles Pokémon Black 2 and White 2 ; with the upcoming releases of Pokémon X and Y , 6 new  पोकीमॉन  have been featured in promotions for the games .
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the singular and plural , as is each individual species name ; it is grammatically correct to say `` one Pokémon '' and `` many Pokémon '' , as well as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu   '' .
Cover of the first edition  of  the publication Dada by Tristan Tzara ; Zurich , 1917
Dada ( ) or Dadaism was an art movement of the  यूरोपीय  avant-garde in the early 20th century .
Many claim Dada began in Zurich , Switzerland in 1916 , spreading to Berlin shortly thereafter but the height of New York Dada was  the साल पहले  in 1915 .
To quote Dona Budd 's The Language of Art Knowledge , Dada was born out of negative reaction  to  the horrors of World War I .
This international movement was begun by a group of artist   and poets associated with the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich .
Dada  अस्वीकृत  reason and logic , prizing nonsense , irrationality and intuition .
The origin of the name  दादा  is unclear ; some believe that it is a nonsensical word .
Others maintain that it originates from the Romanian artists Tristan Tzara and Marcel Janco 's  बारंबार  use of the words da , da , meaning yes , yes in the Romanian language .
another सिद्धान्त says कि the नाम `` दादा '' आए दौरान a बैठक of the समूह जब a पेपर चाकू stuck into a french-german शब्दकोष happened to पाइंट to 'डैडa ' , a फ्रेंच शब्द लिये 'hobbyhorse  ' .
The movement primarily involved visual arts , literature , poetry , art manifestoes , art theory , theatre , and graphic design , and concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural  works .
In addition to being anti-war , Dada was also anti- bourgeois and had political affinities  साथ the कट्टरपंथी  left .
Dada activities included public gatherings , demonstrations , and publication of art/literary journals ; passionate coverage of art , politics , and culture were topics often discussed  in a  variety of media .
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball , Emmy Hennings , Hans Arp , Raoul Hausmann , Hannah Höch , Johannes Baader , Tristan Tzara , Francis Picabia , Richard Huelsenbeck , Georg Grosz , John Heartfield , Marcel Duchamp , Beatrice Wood , Kurt  schwitters  , and Hans Richter , among others .
The movement influenced later styles like the avant-garde and downtown music movements , and groups including surrealism , Nouveau réalisme  , pop  art and Fluxus .
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound poetry , a starting point for performance art , a prelude to  postmodernism  , an influence on pop art , a celebration of antiart to be later embraced for anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism .
First trophic level   .
The plants in this image , and the algae  and  phytoplankton in the lake , are primary producers .
They take nutrients from the soil or the water , and manufacture  उनके अपना खाना  by photosynthesis , using energy from the sun .
The trophic level of  an सजीव  is the position it occupies in a food chain .
the शब्द trophic गर्भाशयी इससे the यूनानी τροφή ( trophē ) referring to खाना or feeding  .
A food chain represents a succession of organisms that eat another   organism and are , in turn , eaten themselves .
The number of steps an organism is from the start of the  कड़ी is a माप  of its trophic level .
Food   chains start at trophic level 1 with primary producers such as plants , move to herbivores at level 2 , predators at level 3 and typically finish with carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5 .
The path along the chain can form either a one-way flow , or a food ``  वेब  . ''
Ecological  समुदायों साथ उच्चतर  biodiversity form more complex trophic paths .
Four of the most important domesticated  रेशा  moths .
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori ,  hyalophora cecropia  , Antheraea pernyi , Samia cynthia .
From Meyers  konversations-lexikon  ( 1885-1892 )
A  silk-producing  raspy cricket .
Silk is a natural  प्रोटीन fibre  , some forms of which can be woven into textiles .
The protein fibre of  रेशा is रचित  mainly of fibroin and produced by certain insect larvae to form cocoons .
The best-known type of silk is obtained from the  cocoons of the  larvae of the mulberry silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity ( sericulture ) .
The shimmering appearance of silk is due to the triangular prism -like structure of the silk fibre , which allows silk cloth to refract incoming light at different angles , thus  producing  different colors .
Silks are produced by several other insects , but generally only  the रेशा  of moth caterpillars has been used for textile manufacturing .
वहीँ रै महरूम कुछ शोध into अन्य silks , जिससे differ at the आणविक स्तर .
Many silks are mainly produced by the larvae of insects undergoing complete metamorphosis , but some adult insects such as  webspinners  produce silk , and some insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout their lives .
Silk  उत्पादन  also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees , wasps , and ants ) , silverfish , mayflies , thrips , leafhoppers , beetles , lacewings , fleas , flies and midges .
Other types of arthropod produce silk , most   notably various arachnids such as spiders ( see spider silk ) .
Late   Show with David Letterman is an American late-night talk show hosted by David Letterman on CBS .
The show debuted on August 30 , 1993 , and is produced by  लेटरमैन  's production company , Worldwide Pants Incorporated .
The show 's  म्यूज़िक निदेशक और band-leader  of the house band , the CBS Orchestra , is Paul Shaffer .
The head  लेखक  is Matt Roberts and the announcer is Alan Kalter .
Of the major U.S. late-night programs , Late Show ranks second in  संचयी औसत दर्शक  over time and third in number of episodes over time .
The show leads other late night shows   in ad revenue with $ 271 million in 2009 .
In most U.S.  बाज़ार the दिखाएँ  airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time , but is recorded Monday through Wednesday at 4:30 p.m. , and Thursdays at 3:30 p.m and 6:00 p.m .
The second Thursday episode  प्रायः airs  on Friday of that week .
In 2002 , Late  दिखाएँ साथ दाउद लेटरमैन थी क्रमित no . 7 on tv मार्गदर्शिका 's 50 महानतम tv shows of सब समय .
CBS has a contract with Worldwide Pants to continue the show through 2014 ; by then , Letterman will surpass Johnny  कार्सन as the  longest tenured late-night talk show host .
The Real Housewives of Orange County is an American reality documentary television program on Bravo , set in Orange County ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
It was the first The Real  housewives  program in the series .
The series is a voyeuristic look into the wealthy lives of these housewives , as they shop , get plastic surgery , gossip , fight and  सजीव lavishly  .
The financial crisis , the beginning of which coincided almost exactly with the first season 's broadcast , has since trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles with job losses , evictions , mortgage defaults , foreclosures , and marital stress—all recorded in progressive  सीज़न of  the show .
cyberstalking is  the use of the Internet or other electronic means to stalk or harass an individual , a group of individuals , or an organization .
It may include the making of false accusations or statements of fact ( as in defamation ) , monitoring , making threats , identity theft , damage to data or equipment , the solicitation of minors for sex , or gathering information  कि may be प्रयुक्त to harass  .
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet  the मानदंड  that a reasonable person , in possession of the same information , would regard it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress .
Cyberstalking  is  different from spatial or offline stalking in that it occurs through the use of electronic communications technology such as the internet .
However , it sometimes leads   to it , or is accompanied by it .
Both are  दण्ड offenses  .
Cyberstalking shares important characteristics with  ऑफ़लाइन stalking  .
अनेक stalkers – ऑनलाइन or बंद – हैं प्रेरित by a ख्वाहिश to कंट्रोल उनके पीड़ितों .
A  cyberstalker  may be an online stranger or a person whom the target knows .
A cyberstalker may be anonymous and may  solicit  involvement of other people online who do not even know the target .
Cyberstalking is a criminal   offense that comes into play under state anti-stalking laws , slander laws , and harassment laws .
A cyberstalking conviction can result in a restraining order  , परिवीक्षा , or  even criminal penalties against the assailant , including jail .
A business  अक्षर is प्रायः प्रयुक्त जब लिखने इससे एक कम्पनी to another , or लिये पत्राचार between ऐसे संगठन और उनके ग्राहक , क्लाइंट और अन्य बाह्य पार्टियों .
The overall style of letter will depend on the relationship between the parties   concerned .
There are many reasons  to लिखें  a business letter .
It could be to request direct information or action from another party , to order supplies from a supplier , to identify a mistake that was  वचनबद्ध , to जवाब  directly to a request , to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill .
Even today , the business letter is still very useful because it produces a permanent   record , is confidential , formal and delivers persuasive , well-considered messages .
Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a  सौ प्रजाति  of cichlid fish from the tilapiine cichlid tribe .
Tilapia are mainly freshwater fish , inhabiting shallow streams , ponds , rivers and lakes , and  less commonly  found living in brackish water .
Historically , they have been of major importance in artisan fishing  in  Africa and the Levant , and are of increasing importance in aquaculture .
tilapia  can become problematic invasive species in new warm-water habitats , whether deliberately or accidentally introduced , but generally not in temperate climates due to their inability to survive in cooler waters below about .
टर्नर & hooch is a 1989 कॉमेडी नाटक अपराधों फिल्मी अभिनीत tom हैंक्स और beasley the श्वान as the eponymous वर्ण , टर्नर और hooch क्रमशः .
The film also stars  घोड़ी winningham  , Craig T. Nelson , and Reginald VelJohnson .
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film was  originally  slated to be directed by Henry Winkler , but he was terminated due to `` creative differences '' .
It was co-written by Michael Blodgett   from Beyond the Valley of the Dolls fame .
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released prior to this film ( exactly three  महीने  earlier ) , Turner & Hooch became more popular and seemingly overshadowed its greater success , even though K-9 had a very similar plot .
A pilot for a Turner & Hooch TV series was made and ran  as a  part of The Magical World of Disney .
This is a list of Israeli airports , sorted  by स्थान  .
प्रवेश to ovda विमानक्षेत्र
Terminal   3 at Ben Gurion
प्लेन लैंडिंग at be'er sheva ( teyman )
eilat  Airport
Adolf Hitler (  ;  20 April 1889 – 30 April 1945 ) was an Austrian -born German politician and the leader of the Nazi Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ) .
He was chancellor of  जर्मनी इससे 1933  to 1945 and dictator of Nazi Germany ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945 .
Hitler was at the centre of Nazi  जर्मनी  , World War II in Europe , and the Holocaust .
हिटलर  was a decorated veteran of World War I .
He joined the  जर्मनी मजदूर ' पार्टी (  precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919 , and became leader of the NSDAP in 1921 .
In 1923 , he attempted a coup d'état in Munich , known as  the  Beer Hall Putsch .
The failed coup resulted  in  Hitler 's imprisonment , during which time he wrote his memoir , Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ) .
After  उसके रिलीज in 1924 , हिटलर gained  popular support by attacking the Treaty of Versailles and promoting Pan-Germanism , antisemitism , and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda .
After his appointment as chancellor in 1933 , he transformed the Weimar Republic into the Third Reich  , a single-party  dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of Nazism .
Hitler 's aim was to  स्थापित  a New Order of absolute Nazi German hegemony in continental Europe .
To this end , his foreign and domestic policies had the  उद्देश्य of seizing lebensraum  ( `` living space '' ) for the Germanic people .
He directed the  rearmament of जर्मनी  and the invasion of Poland by the Wehrmacht in September 1939 , resulting in the outbreak of World War II in Europe .
अंतर्गत हिटलर 's नियम , in 1941 जर्मनी शक्तियां और उनके यूरोपीय allies occupied सबसे of यूरोपीय  and North Africa .
In 1943 ,  जर्मनी था महरूम  forced onto the defensive and suffered a series of escalating defeats .
In the final days of the war , during the Battle of Berlin in 1945 , Hitler married his long-time  संगी , एवा braun .
On 30 April 1945 ,  कम  than two days later , the two committed suicide to avoid capture by the Red Army , and their corpses were burned .
Hitler   's aggressive foreign policy is considered the main cause of the outbreak of World War II in Europe .
His antisemitic policies and racially motivated ideology resulted in the  मौतों  of at least 5.5 million Jews , and millions of other people deemed racially inferior .
अंगूठा
A domain name is an  पहचान  string that defines a realm of administrative autonomy , authority , or control on the Internet .
Domain names are  formed  by the rules and procedures of the Domain Name System ( DNS ) .
Technically , any name registered  in  the DNS is a domain name .
Domain names are used in various networking contexts and application-specific  नामकरण और  addressing purposes .
In general , a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource , such as a personal  कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त to अभिगम  the Internet , a server computer hosting a web site , or the web site itself or any other service communicated via the Internet .
Domain names are organized in subordinate levels ( subdomains ) of the DNS  रूट  domain , which is nameless .
The first-level set of  डोमेन names हैं the top-level डोमेन  ( TLDs ) , including the generic top-level domains ( gTLDs ) , such as the prominent domains com , info , net and org , and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ) .
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are typically open for reservation by end-users who wish to connect local area networks to the Internet  , create other publicly  accessible Internet resources or run web sites .
The registration of these domain names is usually administered by domain name registrars who  बेचें  their services to the public .
A fully qualified domain name ( FQDN ) is a domain  name  that is completely specified in the hierarchy of the DNS , having no omitted parts .
Domain names are usually written in lowercase , although labels in  the  Domain Name System are case-insensitive .
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion with the molecular formula NO3− and a molecular mass  of  62.0049 g/mol . Nitrates also describe the organic functional group RONO2 .
These nitrate esters are a specialized class  of विस्फोटक  .
A   wheat harvest in Idaho
This photo from a 1921 encyclopedia shows a tractor ploughing a  क्रॉप  field .
कृषि  is a major industry in the United States and the country is a net exporter of food .
As of the last census of agriculture in 2007 , there were  2.2 लाख खेतो ,  covering an area of , an average of per farm .
Although agricultural activity occurs in most states , it is particularly  concentrated in the विशाल expanse of चपटा  , arable land known as the Great Plains , which encompasses the central region of the nation .
the mpemba प्रभाव , नामित बाद tanzanian छात्र erasto mpemba , is the assertion कि warmer जल can फ्रीज तेज़ than colder जल .
Although there is anecdotal support for the effect , there is no agreement on exactly what  the effect is  and under what circumstances it occurs .
There have been  रिपोर्ट्स of समान  phenomena since ancient times , although with insufficient detail for the claims to be replicated .
The phenomenon seems contrary to thermodynamics , but a number of possible explanations for the effect  have been  proposed .
Further investigations will need  to decide on a  precise definition of `` freezing '' and control a vast number of starting parameters in order to confirm or explain the effect .
The Siamese ( , ) is one of the first  distinctly पहचाना  breeds of Oriental cat .
The breed originated  in Thailand (  formerly known as Siam ) , where they are one of several native breeds and are called Wichian Mat ( วิเชียรมาศ , a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ) .
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became  एक of the सबसे  popular breeds in Europe and North America .
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue , Washington , with 64 stores in the Puget Sound   region of Washington state and in the Portland , Oregon metropolitan area .
In economics , the money supply or money stock , is the total amount of monetary assets available in an  अर्थव्यवस्था at  a specific time .
There are several  तरीके  to define `` money , '' but standard measures usually include currency in circulation and demand deposits ( depositors ' easily accessed assets on the books of financial institutions ) .
Money supply data  हैं अंकित और प्रकाशित , प्रायः  by the government or the central bank of the country .
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored changes in money supply because of its effects on the price level , inflation , the exchange rate  और  the business cycle .
कि संबंध between धन और कीमतें is historically संबद्ध साथ the मात्रा सिद्धान्त of धन  .
There is  दमदार  empirical evidence of a direct relation between money-supply growth and long-term price inflation , at least for rapid increases in the amount of money in the economy .
That is  , a देश  such as Zimbabwe which saw rapid increases in its money supply also saw rapid increases in prices ( hyperinflation ) .
इस is एक कारण लिये the रिलायंस on मौद्रिक नीति as a अर्थात् of controlling महंगाई .
The nature of this causal  कड़ी  is the subject of contention .
कुछ शास्त अर्थशास्त्रियों argue कि the धन  supply is endogenous ( determined by the workings of the economy , not by the central bank ) and that the sources of inflation must be found in the distributional structure of the economy .
In addition , those economists seeing the central bank 's control over the money  सप्लाई as feeble  say that there are two weak links between the growth of the money supply and the inflation rate .
First , in the  aftermath of  a recession , when many resources are underutilized , an increase in the money supply can cause a sustained increase in real production instead of inflation .
Second , if the velocity of  money ,  i.e. , the ratio between nominal GDP and money supply , changes , an increase in the money supply could have either no effect , an exaggerated effect , or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP .
लोगो  for IMAX .
Warren Theatre IMAX cinema ,  wichita , कान्सास  , USA , 601 seats .
A comparison between 35 mm and  15/70 mm  negative areas .
IMAX ( an  संक्षिप्त लिये चित्र अधिकतम ) is a गति चित्र फिल्मी स्वरूप और a नियत of सिनेमा प्रक्षेप मानकों निर्मित by the कनाडाई कम्पनी imax निगम .
IMAX has the capacity to record and display images of far greater size and  रेज़ोल्यूशन  than conventional film systems .
Since 2002 , some feature films have been converted ( or upgraded ) into  imax स्वरूप  for display in IMAX theatres and some have also been partially shot in IMAX .
IMAX is the most widely used system for special-venue  फिल्मी प्रस्तुतियों  .
, there   are 697 IMAX theatres in 52 countries .
Today 's Special is a Canadian children 's television show produced by Clive VanderBurgh at   TVOntario from 1981 to 1987 .
It also ran on Nickelodeon and the Faith and Values Channel/Odyssey ( now the  hallmark चैनल ) as खूब  as many PBS stations throughout the United States .
It was set in a department store , based on the  फ्लैगशिप स्थान  of the now defunct Simpson 's in Toronto .
Many sequences for it were shot at the  महारानी गली वेस्ट  and Yonge Street store after hours .
Constitutionalism , in its most general meaning , is `` a complex  of  ideas , attitudes , and patterns of behavior elaborating the principle that the authority of government derives from and is limited by a body of fundamental law '' .
A political organization is constitutional to the extent that it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of power control for the protection of the interests and liberties of the citizenry , including those that may be  in  the minority `` .
As described by political scientist and  संवैधानिक  scholar David Fellman :
An ice-cream headache , also known as brain freeze , cold-stimulus headache , or its given scientific name sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia ( meaning `` nerve pain of the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ) , is a form of brief cranial pain or headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick consumption  ) of ठंडा पेय or भोजन  such as ice cream and ice pops .
It is caused by having  कुछ ठंडा टच the  roof of the mouth ( palate ) , and is believed to result from a nerve response causing rapid constriction and swelling of blood vessels or a `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head .
the रेट of  intake for cold foods has been studied as a contributing factor .
वहीँ हैं लोगों जो can नहीं अनुभव `` दिमाग फ्रीज '' or समान लक्षण  .
The term ice-cream headache has been in  उपयोग चूंकि at तनिक 31 जनवरी 1937  , contained in a journal entry by Rebecca Timbres published in the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia .
The first published use of the  term  brain freeze , as it pertains to cold-induced headaches , was on 27 May 1991 .
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( :  नोट `` s ''  rather than `` z '' ) is a Scots poem written by Robert Burns in 1788 and set to the tune of a traditional folk song ( Roud # 6294 ) .
It is well known in many countries , especially in the English-speaking world ; its traditional  use being  to celebrate the start of the New Year at the stroke of midnight .
By extension , it  is also  sung at funerals , graduations and as a farewell or ending to other occasions .
The international Boy Scout youth movement , in many  देशों  , uses it as a close to jamborees and other functions .
The song 's Scots title may be translated into English literally as `` old long since '' , or more   idiomatically , `` long long ago '' , `` days gone by '' or `` old times '' .
Consequently `` For  auld lang  syne '' , as it appears in the first line of the chorus , might be loosely translated as `` for ( the sake of ) old times '' .
The phrase `` Auld   Lang Syne '' is also used in similar poems by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ) , Allan Ramsay ( 1686–1757 ) , and James Watson ( 1711 ) as well as older folk songs predating Burns .
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase `` In the days of auld lang syne '' as the equivalent of `` Once upon  a  time ...
``  in उसके  retelling of fairy tales in the Scots language .
Ben Schulz , player of  leeroy  Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins , sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and often elongated with numerous additional letters , is an Internet meme named  for a player  character created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's MMORPG , World of Warcraft .
The character became popular due to a video of the game that circulated around the  अंतरजाल  .
The phenomenon has since spread beyond the boundaries of the gaming community into other online  and mainstream  media .
Oscar  ग्रान्ट थी fatally  shot by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle in Oakland , California , United States , in the early morning hours of New Year 's Day 2009 .
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid  पारगमन ट्रैन  returning from San Francisco , BART Police officers detained Oscar Grant and several other passengers on the platform at the Fruitvale BART Station .
Officer Johannes Mehserle  और another  officer were restraining Grant , who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest .
Officer Mehserle stood  और ,  according to witnesses , said : `` Get back , I 'm gon na tase him . ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun and shot Grant once in the back ; Mehserle appeared   stunned , put his hands to his head and exclaimed , `` Oh , my God ! ''
During  उसके अदालत  testimony , Mehserle said that Grant then exclaimed , `` You shot me ! ''
Grant turned out to be unarmed ; he  was  pronounced dead the next morning at Highland Hospital in Oakland .
The events were captured on multiple  डिजिटल वीडियो  and cell phone cameras .
the  footage was disseminated to media outlets and to various websites , where it was watched millions of times .
The following days saw both peaceful  and  violent protests .
The shooting has been variously labeled an  involuntary  manslaughter and a summary execution .
On January  13 ,  Alameda County prosecutors charged Mehserle with murder for the shooting .
He resigned his position and  pleaded  not guilty .
The trial began on  जून  10 , 2010 .
Michael Rains , Mehserle 's criminal defense attorney , argued that Mehserle mistakenly shot Grant with his pistol , intending to use his Taser when he saw Grant  reaching  for his waistband .
pretrial filings argue कि  his client did not commit first-degree murder and asked a Los Angeles judge to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either second-degree murder or acquittal .
Oakland civil rights  attorney  John Burris filed a $ 25 million wrongful death claim against BART on behalf of Grant 's family .
On July  8 , 2010  , the jury returned its verdict : Mehserle was found guilty of involuntary manslaughter and not guilty of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter .
Initial protests against the ruling were peacefully organized ; looting , arson , destruction  of प्रॉपर्टी  , and small riots broke out after dark .
nearly 80 लोगों  were eventually arrested .
On Friday , July 9 , 2010 , the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil rights case against Mehserle ;  the संघीय  government can prosecute him independently for the same act under the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy .
The Department of Justice will be working with the U.S.   Attorney 's office in San Francisco and the FBI .
On November 5  , 2010 , mehserle  was sentenced to two years , minus time served .
He served his time in  the लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी  Jail , occupying a private cell away from other prisoners .
He was released on June 13 ,  2011 और is अभी  on parole .
Major   representatives of the Harlem Renaissance .
The Harlem Renaissance was  a cultural  movement that spanned the 1920s .
At the time , it was known as the ``  नई नीग्रो गति  '' , named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke .
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of New York City , many French-speaking black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also   influenced by the Harlem Renaissance .
The Harlem Renaissance is  unofficially पहचाना to have  spanned from about 1919 until the early or mid-1930s .
Many of its ideas  जिया on  much longer .
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '' , as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance , was placed between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A Journal of Negro Life hosted a party for black writers where many white publishers were in attendance ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great  Depression  ) .
African States between 500 BCE and  1500  CE
Obelisk   at temple of Luxor , Egypt .
c. 1200  bce  .
African knight of   Baguirmi in full padded armour suit .
The history of Africa begins with the prehistory of Africa and the emergence of Homo sapiens in East  अफ़्रीकी  , continuing into the present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states .
Some early evidence  of  agriculture in Africa dates from 16,000 BCE , and metallurgy from about 4000 BCE .
The recorded history of early civilization arose in Egypt , and later in Nubia , the Maghreb and the  सींग  of Africa .
During the Middle Ages , Islam spread through the   regions .
Crossing the Maghreb and the Sahel , a  प्रमुख  center of Muslim culture was Timbuktu .
Some notable pre-colonial states and societies in Africa include the Nok culture ,  माली साम्राज्य , ashanti  Empire , Kingdom of Mapungubwe , Kingdom of Sine , Kingdom of Saloum , Kingdom of Baol , Kingdom of Zimbabwe , Kingdom of Kongo , Ancient Carthage , Numidia , Mauretania , the Aksumite Empire , the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate .
From the late 15th century , Europeans  और arabs took  slaves from West , Central and Southeast Africa overseas in the African slave trade .
European  colonization  of Africa developed rapidly in the Scramble for Africa of the late 19th and early 20th centuries .
Following struggles for independence in many parts of the continent   , as well as a weakened Europe after the Second World War ; decolonization took place .
Africa 's history has been challenging for researchers in the field of African studies because of the scarcity of written  स्त्रोत in  large parts of sub-Saharan Africa .
Scholarly techniques such as the recording of oral history , historical linguistics , archaeology   and genetics have been crucial .
Curry Foley was the first player in Major League Baseball history to hit for  the साईकिल  .
In  बेसबॉल , hitting लिये the साईकिल is the accomplishment of एक बैटर hitting a सिंगल , a दोगुना , a ट्रिपल , और a घर चलाएं in the वही खेल .
Collecting the hits in that order is   known as a `` natural cycle '' .
Cycles are uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB ) , and have occurred 294 times since the  first by  Curry Foley in 1882 .
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB history ) ; it has been called `` one of the  rarest '' और ``  most difficult feats '' in baseball .
Based on 2009 offensive levels , the probability of an average  एमएलबी खिलाड़ी hitting  for a cycle against an average team in a game is approximately 0.00590 % ; this corresponds to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams .
In other baseball leagues , the cycle is achieved less  अक्सर  .
Through September 4 , 2008 ,  62 खिलाड़ी  in Nippon Professional Baseball ( NPB ) , the top-level baseball organization in Japan , have hit for the cycle , the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara .
Two players have hit   for the cycle on the same day once in NPB history ; this has occurred twice in MLB history .
One NPB  खिलाड़ी  has also hit for the cycle in an NPB All-Star game .
No player has ever hit for the cycle  in the एमएलबी  All-Star Game or the postseason .
The main slave routes in  मध्यकालीन अफ़्रीकी  .
This article discusses systems , history , and  प्रभाव  of slavery within Africa .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade ,  maafa , और  Slavery in contemporary Africa for other discussions .
`` Slave transport in  अफ़्रीकी  '' .
Europeans  प्रायः किया नहीं डालें the आंतरिक regions .
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout  the  continent for many centuries , and continues in the current day .
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts  of  the continent , as they were in much of the ancient world .
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent , the enslaved  people were  largely treated as indentured servants and not treated as chattel slaves .
When the   Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began , many of the local slave systems changed and began supplying captives for slave markets outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms and some  of ये do  not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world .
Debt slavery , enslavement of war captives , military slavery , and  दण्ड गुलामी यहूद  all practiced in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade  from  the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions , slavery was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ) .
Slave  practices  were again transformed with European colonization of Africa and the formal abolition of slavery in the early 1900s .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer  प्रदर्शन और कार्यशील अनुप्रयोग , प्रक्रियाओं और cpu उपयोग  , commit charge and memory information , network activity and statistics , logged-in users , and system services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows , 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly , e.g , `` Process Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities , processor affinity , forcibly terminate processes , and shut   down , restart , hibernate or log off from Windows .
Windows Task Manager was  introduced  with Windows NT 4.0 .
Previous versions of Windows NT included the  Task List  application , which had far fewer features .
The task list was capable of listing currently running processes and  हत्या  them , or creating a new process .
In Windows  XP only , a  Shutdown menu is also present that allows access to Standby , Hibernate , Turn off , Restart , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions  of  Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x , Windows 95 , Windows 98 ) had a program known as tasks to display the programs currently running .
This file was executed by running the  taskman.exe  file from the C : \Windows directory .
The Troop is an American-Canadian live-action , single camera comedy -adventure television series about a trio of teenagers who fight  और कैप्चर  monsters and other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional town of Lakewood .
Created and executive produced by Max Burnett , Greg Coolidge  and  Chris Morgan , the series premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18 , 2009 .
The second season premiered on June 25 , 2011 and Nickelodeon cancelled the series midway through it 's   second season .
The remaining episodes of season 2 were aired   on Nicktoons except the last 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area , the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( DRC ) is home to a vast potential of natural resources and mineral wealth , its untapped deposits of raw minerals are estimated to be worth   in excess of US $ 24 trillion , yet the economy of the DRC has declined drastically since the mid-1980s .
At the time of its independence in 1960 , DRC was the second most industrialized country in Africa after South Africa ;  it  boasted a thriving mining sector and its agriculture sector was relatively productive .
If the viewer stares at this image for 20–60 seconds and stares  at  a white object , a negative afterimage will appear ( in this case , it will be cyan on magenta ) .
This can also be achieved by the viewer closing his/her eyes and tilting  उनके सिर up  .
An afterimage or ghost image or image  burn-in is  an optical illusion that refers to an image continuing to appear in one 's vision after the exposure to the original image has ceased .
One of the most common afterimages is the bright glow   that seems to float before one 's eyes after looking into a light source for a few seconds .
Closing the eye can help achieve a better sense of the color  in  its own aspect .
Afterimages come in two forms , negative ( inverted ) and  धनात्मक  ( retaining original color ) .
The process behind positive afterimages is  अनजान , हालांकि  thought to be related to neural adaptation .
On the other hand , negative afterimages are a retinal phenomenon  and are  well understood .
Lost is an American serial drama television series that premiered on September 22 , 2004  on the अमरीकी  Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) .
The series was created by J. J. Abrams and Damon Lindelof , based upon an original pilot script titled Nowhere  लिखा by जेफरी  Lieber .
Six seasons of the  show  aired , in addition to numerous clip shows to recap previous episodes .
ABC announced that Lost would end after six seasons , having  उत्पादित a कुल of  121 episodes .
The series follows the past , present , and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a plane crash on a passenger jet , Oceanic Flight 815 , flying from Sydney to Los Angeles after it  क्रैश on a तीव्र द्वीप in the  South Pacific .
The series also includes stories of the lives of people already living on the island — they include the `` Others  `` , who  initially antagonize the survivors , as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana .
Each episode typically features action on the island as well as a secondary   storyline from another point in a character 's life .
Season 6 features a detailing of the lives of the survivors in a different reality ,  as if the  flight had never crashed .
In the following list , the term `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the character or characters who are featured in the secondary  कथानक  of each episode .
``  No .
in series ''  refers to the एपीसोड  's number in the overall series , whereas `` No .
in season '' refers to the episode 's number in  प्रत्येक particular ऋतु  .
`` U.S. viewers ( million ) '' refers to the number of Americans in millions who watched  the एपीसोड सजीव  .
A total of 121 episodes of Lost were produced , the  पिछला of जिससे  aired on May 23 , 2010 .
All  सीज़न हैं  available on DVD in Regions 1–4 and on Blu-ray in Regions A and B .
Flat feet ( also called pes planus or fallen arches ) is a formal reference to a medical condition in which the arch of the foot collapses , with the entire sole of the foot coming into complete or near-complete  सम्पर्क साथ  the ground .
In some individuals ( an estimated 20–30 % of the general population ) the arch simply never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet   ( bilaterally ) .
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have shown no evidence of later increased injury , or foot problems , due to flat feet , in a population  of people who reach military service age without prior foot  problems .
However , these studies can not be used to   judge possible future damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages .
They also can not be applied  to व्यक्तियों जिनकी चपटा फीट  are associated with foot symptoms , or certain symptoms in other parts of the body ( such as the leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot .
Generation X , commonly abbreviated   to Gen X , is the generation born after the Western post-World War II baby boom .
Demographers , historians and commentators use  शुरूआत  birth dates from the early 1960s to the early 1980s .
The term was popularized by Douglas Coupland 's 1991 novel Generation X : Tales for  an त्वरित  Culture .
Before  कि , it था महरूम  used for various subcultures or countercultures after the 1950s .
Pressure ulcers , also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores , are localized injuries to the skin and/or underlying tissue usually over a bony prominence , as a  परिणाम  of pressure , or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction .
Most commonly this will be the sacrum , coccyx , heels or the hips , but other sites such as  the elbows  , knees , ankles or the back of the cranium can be affected .
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure applied to soft tissue so that blood flow to the soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed  .
Shear is also a cause ; shear pulls on blood  बरतन  that feed the skin .
दबाव छाले सबसे  commonly develop in persons who are not moving about or are confined to wheelchairs .
It  is widely believed कि अन्य कारकों  can influence the tolerance of skin for pressure and shear thereby increasing the risk of pressure ulcer development .
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition , microclimate ( skin wetness caused  by sweating or incontinence  ) , diseases that reduce blood flow to the skin , such as arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the feeling in the skin , such as paralysis or neuropathy .
The healing of pressure ulcers may be  slowed by the आयु of the व्यक्ति ,  medical conditions ( such as arteriosclerosis , diabetes or infection ) , smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs .
हालांकि प्रायः prevented और treatable if मिला जल्दी , दबाव छाले can be बहुत मुश्किल to prevent in critically बीमार मरीजों , frail बड़ो , व्हीलचेयर उपयोक्ता ( विशेषकर जहाँ स्पाइनल चोट is शामिल ) और terminally बीमार मरीजों  .
Primary prevention   is to redistribute pressure by turning the patient regularly .
the लाभ of turning to avoid further sores is खूब प्रलेखित चूंकि at तनिक the 19th सदी  .
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or wheelchair ,  खाने  a balanced diet with adequate protein and keeping the skin free from exposure to urine and stool is very important .
the व्यापकता of दबाव छाले in हॉस्पिटल जमावट is ऊँची , लकिन सुधार हैं होने बना .
According to the 2010 IPUP ( International Pressure Ulcer Prevalence Survey ) conducted in Canada , there was a significant decrease in the overall   facility-acquired prevalence of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010 .
Ulcers were most commonly identified at  the  sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however , heel ulcers were the most common facility-acquired location in the survey .
Overboard is a 1987 American romantic comedy film starring  goldie  Hawn and Kurt Russell .
It was directed by Garry Marshall , produced by Roddy   McDowell , and loosely inspired by the 1974 Italian film Swept Away .
In turn , Overboard  थी adapted  into the 2006 South Korean television series , Couple or Trouble .
Green Bay is a city in and the county seat of Brown County in the U.S. state of  विस्कॉन्सिन , स्तिथ  at the head of Green Bay , a sub-basin of Lake Michigan , at the mouth of the Fox River .
It has an elevation of above sea level and is located north of   Milwaukee .
The   population was 104,057 at the 2010 census .
It is the third-largest   city in the state of Wisconsin , after Milwaukee and Madison .
It is also the   third-largest city on the west shore of Lake Michigan , after Chicago and Milwaukee .
ग्रीन खाड़ी is घर to the ग्रीन  Bay Packers of the National Football League , making it by far the smallest metropolitan area in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise .
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area , which covers Brown , Kewaunee , and Oconto Counties and had a combined  जनसांख्यिकी of  282,599 at the 2000 census .
Green Bay is an industrial city with several   meatpacking and paper plants , and a port on Green Bay , an arm of Lake Michigan that locals call the Bay of Green Bay , to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city .
It is home to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville  Public Museum , with  exhibitions of art , history , and science ; and the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay .
luteinizing हार्मोन  ( LH , also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph cells in the anterior pituitary gland .
In females , an acute rise of LH ( `` LH  surge  '' ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum .
In males , where LH had also been called interstitial cell-stimulating hormone (  icsh ) ,  it stimulates Leydig cell production of testosterone .
It acts  synergistically  with FSH .
सेलिना quintanilla-pérez ( अप्रैल 16 , 1971 – कूच 31 , 1995 ) , ज्ञात बस as सेलिना , थी an अमरीकी singer-songwriter .
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best selling Latin artist of  the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड  for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart , including seven number-one hits .
Selena had the most successful singles of 1994  and  1995 , `` Amor Prohibido `` and `` No Me Queda Más `` .
She was called `` The Queen of Tejano music `` and the  मैक्सिकन समतुल्य  of Madonna .
Selena   released her first album , Selena y Los Dinos , at the age of twelve .
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at  the 1987  Tejano Music Awards and landed a recording contract with EMI a few years later .
Her fame grew throughout the early 1990s , especially in  Spanish-speaking  countries , and she had begun recording in English as well .
Selena  was  murdered at the age of 23 on March 31 , 1995 by Yolanda Saldívar , the former president of her fan club .
On April 12 , 1995 , two weeks after her  मौत , जार्ज W. बुश  , governor of Texas at the time , declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas .
Warner Bros. produced Selena , a film based  on उसके जीवन अभिनीत जेनिफर  Lopez , in 1997 .
Selena 's life   was also the basis of the musical Selena Forever starring Veronica Vazquez as Selena .
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated with a life-sized bronze statue ( Mirador de la Flor in Corpus   Christi , Texas ) and a Selena museum opened there .
She has sold over 60 million albums worldwide , making  her  one of the best-selling artists of all time .
वो  is also the only female artist to have five albums in U.S . Billboard 200 at the same time .
German Stahlhelm from   World War II
तमगा of the bolivian फौज colorados रेजीमेंट , प्रर्दशित a stahlhelm और दो crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( plural , Stahlhelme ) is   German for `` steel helmet '' .
The Imperial German Army began to replace the  परंपरागत boiled-leather  Pickelhaube ( spiked combat helmet ) with the Stahlhelm during World War I in 1916 .
the पद stahlhelm refers दोनो to a जेनेरिक स्टील हेल्मेट , और अधिक specifically to the distinctive ( और iconic ) जर्मनी डिज़ाइन  .
The Stahlhelm , with its distinctive `` coal   scuttle `` shape , was an instantly recognizable icon for military imagery and became a common element of military propaganda on both sides , just like the Pickelhaube before it .
Its name was also used by the Stahlhelm , a paramilitary nationalist  संगठन स्थापित  at the end of 1918 .
Glow-in-the-dark may refer  to:
Bioluminescence   , the production and emission of light by a living organism
Chemiluminescence , is the emission of light  (  luminescence ) without emission of heat
Phosphorescence , a specific type of   photoluminescence related to fluorescence
Radioluminescence , production of luminescence in a material by the  बमबारी  of ionizing radiation
Glow in the Dark Tour , a 2008 concert  दौरे by kanye  West
फ्रैंकफर्ट विमानक्षेत्र serves as a हब नगर लिये लुफ़्थान्सा और receives फ़्लाइट इससे स्टार गठबंधन वाहक .
Airline hubs are airports  क्रमित as विशाल , मीडियम , छोटी , और non-hubs as एक of the faa विमानक्षेत्र श्रेणी जिससे हैं re-evaluated प्रत्येक साल आधारित on क्रमांक of वाणिज्यिक यात्री .
The more common but informal use for the phrase airline hub is an airport that  an  airline uses as a transfer point to get passengers to their intended destination .
It is part of a hub and spoke model , where travelers moving  between airports not served by  direct flights change planes en route to their destinations .
This is as opposed to  the पाइंट  to Point model .
Many hubs of the airlines are also situated at  एयरपोर्ट in the शहरों  of the respective head offices .
Some  एयरलाइंस may उपयोग तभी  a single hub , while other airlines use multiple hubs .
Hubs are used for both passenger flights as  खूब as  cargo flights .
Many airlines also use focus  शहरों  , which function much the same as hubs .
Airlines may also use secondary  hubs  , a non-technical term for large focus cities .
a हब in the मध्य of a रूट is अधिक प्रभावी than at either समाप्त as connecting ट्रैफ़िक अधिक easily भरता the प्लेन - यात्री prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) रूट over a two-stop ( three-leg ) रूट .
Hollow  lacedaemon  .
Site of the Menelaion , the shrine to Helen and Menelaus constructed anciently in the Bronze Age city that stood on the hill of Therapne on the left bank of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site  of डोरियन  Sparta .
Across the valley the successive  ridges  of Mount Taygetus are in evidence .
Sparta ( Doric Greek  : ;  Attic Greek : ) , or Lacedaemon , was a prominent city-state in ancient Greece , situated on the banks of the Eurotas River in Laconia , in south-eastern Peloponnese .
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th century BC , when the invading Dorians subjugated the local ,   non-Dorian population .
around 650  BC , it rose to become the dominant military land-power in ancient Greece .
Given its military pre-eminence , Sparta was recognized as the  overall leader of the  combined Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars .
Between 431 and 404 BC , Sparta was the principal enemy of Athens during the  peloponnesian  War , from which it emerged victorious , though at great cost .
स्पार्टा 's शिकस्त by thebes in the बैटल of leuctra in 371 bc ended स्पार्टा 's prominent भूमिका in यूनानियों  .
However , it maintained its political   independence until the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC .
It then underwent a long period of decline , especially in the Middle Ages  , when many  Spartans moved to live in Mystras .
Modern  स्पार्टा is the पूंजी of the यूनानी क्षेत्रीय  unit of Laconia and a center for the processing of goods such as citrus and olives .
Sparta  was  unique in ancient Greece for its social system and constitution , which completely focused on military training and excellence .
Its inhabitants were classified as Spartiates ( Spartan citizens , who  enjoyed पूरा अधिकारों ) , mothakes  ( non-Spartan free men raised as Spartans ) , Perioikoi ( freedmen ) , and Helots ( state-owned serfs , enslaved non-Spartan local population ) .
Spartiates underwent the rigorous agoge training and education regimen , and Spartan phalanges were widely  माना to be among the बेहतरीन in  battle .
Spartan women enjoyed considerably more rights and equality to men than  elsewhere in  the classical world .
Sparta was the subject of fascination in its own day , as well as in the West following the revival of classical   learning .
This love or admiration of Sparta is  ज्ञात as laconism  or Laconophilia .
Fantasy  football  is an interactive competition in which users compete against each other as general managers of virtual teams .
The players that an individual is able to manage are professional   American football players in the National Football League .
The different actions people are able to make are drafting , trading , adding or dropping players , and  changing  rosters .
Due to the growth of the Internet , Fantasy football has vastly increased in popularity , particularly because Fantasy football providers such as ESPN , Yahoo , CBS , and the NFL itself are able to keep track of statistics entirely online , eliminating the need to check box  scores  and newspapers regularly to keep track of players .
Most leagues have a single week  चैंपियनशिप  in Week 16 of the NFL season .
World population  estimates इससे  1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections ( red , orange , green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ) .
Actual  अंकित जनसांख्यिकी  figures are in blue .
According to the highest estimate ,  the  world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population  is  the total number of living humans on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated to number billion by the United States  जनसांख्यिकी  Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB estimates that the world  जनसांख्यिकी  exceeded 7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund , it reached this milestone on  अक्तूबर 31 , 2011  .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of  the  Great Famine and the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s , and  लिये a longer काल  during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth  रेट peaked  at 2.2 % in 1963 , and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million , and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million , while deaths number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase   to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the  जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट  ) , with the global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
विभिन्न  longer-term estimates predict further growth , stagnation , or even overall decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population  विकास , citing  the growing pressures on the environment , global food supplies , and energy resources .
Skeletal  मांसपेशियां  homo sapiens
This is a table of  मांसपेशियां of the  human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in  approximately 320  pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles  differently  , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
Examples range  इससे  640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of  समूह  which include muscles relating to the head and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The  action  refers to the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical position .
In other positions , other actions may be performed   .
A gold bar is  a quantity of refined  metallic gold of any shape that is made by a bar producer meeting standard conditions of manufacture , labeling , and record keeping .
Larger gold bars that   are produced by pouring the molten metal into molds are called ingots .
Smaller bars may  be manufactured by  minting or stamping from appropriately rolled gold sheets .
The standard   gold bar held as gold reserves by central banks and traded among bullion dealers is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold bar .
The kilobar , which is to say 1000 grams in mass , is the bar  that is  more manageable and is used extensively for trading and investment .
The premium on  ये बार जब traded is बहुत कम  over the spot value of the gold making it ideal for small transfers between banks and traders .
Most kilobars are flat , although  कुछ  investors , particularly in Europe , prefer the brick shape .
Elisha Archibald `` Archie '' Manning III ( born May 19 , 1949 ) is a former American football quarterback  in the  National Football League , playing for the New Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982 , then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings .
He is the father of  वर्तमान डेनवर broncos क्वार्टरबैक peyton मैनिंग , वर्तमान नई यॉर्क दिग्गज starting क्वार्टरबैक एली मैनिंग , और पूर्व ओले मिस receiver कूपर मैनिंग .
Advocacy is a political process by an individual or group which aims to influence public-policy and resource allocation decisions within political ,  आर्थिक , और सोशल प्रणालियों और संस्थानों  .
Advocacy can include many activities that a person or organization undertakes including media campaigns  , public speaking  , commissioning and publishing research or polls or the filing of an amicus brief .
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy where a direct approach is made to legislators  on an  issue which plays a significant role in modern politics .
Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups in the U.S.  और  Canada are using social media to facilitate civic engagement and collective action .
The flag of Mexico ( Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a vertical  तिरंगा  of green , white , and red with the national coat of arms charged in the center of the white stripe .
While the  अर्थ  of the colors has changed over time , these three colors were adopted by Mexico following independence from Spain during the country 's War of Independence , and subsequent First Mexican Empire .
The current flag was adopted in 1968 , but the  overall डिज़ाइन रै महरूम  used since 1821 , when the First National Flag was created .
The current law of national symbols , Law on the National Arms , Flag , and  गान , कि governs the  use of the national flag has been in place since 1984 .
Red , white , and green are the colors of the national  मुक्ति  army in Mexico .
the सेंट्रल  emblem is the Aztec pictogram for Tenochtitlan ( now Mexico City ) , the center of their empire .
It  recalls the लेजेंड कि प्रेरित the aztecs to settle on कया थी originally a lake-island .
The form of the coat   of arms was most recently revised in 1968 .
A ribbon in the national colors is at the bottom of  the कोट  of arms .
Throughout history , the flag has changed four times , as the design of the coat of arms and the  length-width ratios  of the flag have been modified .
However , the coat of arms has had the same features throughout : an eagle ,  पकड़कर  a serpent in its talon , is perched on top of a prickly pear cactus ; the cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake .
The coat  of बाहें is निकला  from an Aztec legend that their gods told them to build a city where they spot an eagle on a nopal eating a serpent , which is now Mexico City .
The current national flag , the Fourth National Flag , is also  प्रयुक्त as the मैक्सिकन  naval ensign by ships registered in Mexico .
A destination marketing organization or convention  and  visitor bureau promotes a town , city , region , or country in order to increase the number of visitors .
It promotes the development and marketing of a destination , focusing on convention sales , tourism marketing , and  सेवाएं  .
Such organizations promote  आर्थिक  development of a destination by increasing visits from tourists and business travelers , which generates overnight lodging for a destination , visits to restaurants , and shopping revenues .
Convention and visitor  bureaus हैं the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण पर्यटन विपणन संगठन in उनके संबंधित पर्यटक गंतव्यों , as वे हैं सीधे जिम्मेदार लिये विपणन the गंतव्य ब्रांड through सफर और पर्यटन `` उत्पाद जागरूकता '' to विज़िटर .
dmos उपज अरबों of डॉलर in सीधा और अप्रत्यक्ष आय और कर लिये उनके गंतव्यों ' economies साथ उनके विपणन और बिक्री विशेषज्ञता  .
गंतव्य विपणन संगठन हैं प्रायः पुकारा सफर , सम्मेलन , विज़िटर , or पर्यटन bureaux , स्वागत centers , सूचना centers और अधिक .
Regardless  of the  name , these organizations offer many services to the traveling public .
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is  one of the largest species of  deer in the world , and one of the largest land mammals in North America and eastern Asia .
It was long believed  to be a subspecies  of the European red deer ( Cervus elaphus ) , but evidence from a 2004 study of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the two are distinct species .
This animal should not be confused with the larger moose ( Alces alces ) , to which  the name ``  elk '' applies in Eurasia .
Apart from the moose , the only other member of the deer family to rival the elk  in size is  the south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ) .
Elk range in forest  और forest-edge  habitat , feeding on grasses , plants , leaves , and bark .
Although native to North America and eastern Asia , they have adapted well to  देशों जहाँ वे have महरूम  introduced , including Argentina , Australia , and New Zealand .
उनके ग्रेट adaptability may threaten endemic प्रजाति और ecosystems into जिससे वे have महरूम introduced  .
Male  नीलगाय  have large antlers which are shed each year .
Males also engage in ritualized mating   behaviors during the rut , including posturing , antler wrestling ( sparring ) , and bugling , a loud series of vocalizations which establishes dominance over other males and attracts females .
Elk are susceptible to a number of infectious diseases , some of which can be transmitted  to पशुधन  .
Efforts to eliminate infectious diseases from elk populations , largely through  टीकाकरण  , have had mixed success .
Some cultures revere the elk as a spiritual  फ़ोर्स  .
In parts of Asia , antlers and their velvet  हैं प्रयुक्त  in traditional medicines .
नीलगाय हैं  hunted as a game species ; the meat is leaner and higher in protein than beef or chicken .
The George Washington University ( GW , GWU , or George Washington )  is a व्यापक निजी  , coeducational research university located in Washington , D.C. .
It awards   certificates , Bachelor degrees , Masters degrees , and PhDs across several dozen disciplines .
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9 , 1821 as The Columbian  कॉलेज in  the District of Columbia .
The lion ( Panthera leo ) is one of the four big cats in the genus Panthera   and a member of the family Felidae .
With some males exceeding in weight , it is  the second-largest  living cat after the tiger .
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant population  resides  in Gir Forest National Park in India ) while other types of lions have disappeared from North Africa and Southwest Asia in historic times .
Until the late Pleistocene , about 10,000 years  ago ,  the lion was the most widespread large land mammal after humans .
They were found in most of Africa , across Eurasia from western Europe to India , and in the  americas  from the Yukon to Peru .
The lion is a vulnerable species , having seen a major population decline of 30–50 % over  the पास्ट दो दशकों  in its African range .
Lion populations are untenable  बाहर  designated reserves and national parks .
Although the cause of the decline is not fully understood , habitat loss and conflicts with humans are currently the greatest  causes  of concern .
Within Africa , the West African lion population is  विशेषकर  endangered .
Lions live for 10–14 years in the wild , while in captivity  वे  can live longer than 20 years .
In the wild , males seldom live longer than 10 years ,  as चोटों  sustained from continual fighting with rival males greatly reduce their longevity .
They  typically inhabit  savanna and grassland , although they may take to bush and forest .
Lions are  unusually  social compared to other cats .
A pride of lions  consists of सम्बन्धित  females and offspring and a small number of adult males .
Groups of female lions typically hunt together , preying  ज़्यादातर on विशाल  ungulates .
Lions  हैं apex और keystone परभक्षी , हालांकि वे scavenge as अवसर allows .
While  शेर  do not typically hunt humans , some have been known to do so .
Sleeping mainly during the day , lions are primarily nocturnal , although bordering on  crepuscular  in nature .
Highly distinctive , the male lion is easily recognised by its mane , and its face is one of  the most  widely recognised animal symbols in human culture .
Depictions  have  existed from the Upper Paleolithic period , with carvings and paintings from the Lascaux and Chauvet Caves , through virtually all ancient and medieval cultures where they once occurred .
It has been extensively depicted in  sculptures , in  paintings , on national flags , and in contemporary films and literature .
शेर have महरूम रखा in menageries चूंकि the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य , और have महरूम a कुंजी प्रजाति sought लिये प्रदर्शनी in zoos over the संसार चूंकि the लेट 18th सदी  .
Zoos are cooperating  विश्वव्यापी in  breeding programs for the endangered Asiatic subspecies .
In the history  of  video games , the seventh generation of consoles is the previous generation , and includes consoles released since late by Nintendo , Microsoft , and Sony .
For home consoles , the seventh generation began on 22 November 2005 with the release of Xbox 360 and continued with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006 , and  Wii on 19  November 2006 .
प्रत्येक नई  console introduced a new type of breakthrough in technology .
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions , the PlayStation 3 offered , in addition  to FHD  gaming , HD movie playback via a built-in 3D Blu-ray Disc player , and the Wii focused on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks .
Joining Nintendo in the  गति मार्केट  , Sony released the PlayStation Move in September 2010 .
The PlayStation Move features motion sensing   gaming , similar to that of the Wii .
microsoft  also joined Sony and Nintendo , with its Kinect .
Unlike the other two systems ( PlayStation 3 and Wii ) , Kinect does not use any controllers of any sort  और  makes the users the `` controller . ''
Having sold 8 million units in its first 60 days on  the market ,  Kinect has claimed the Guinness World Record of being the `` fastest selling consumer electronics device '' .
While the Xbox 360 offers wired controllers as  a standalone  product , all PlayStation 3 controllers can be used in wired and wireless configurations .
Starting with handheld consoles , the seventh generation began on 21 November 2004 with the North American  परिचय of the निन्टेंडो ds as a ``  third pillar '' , alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles .
The Nintendo DS ( NDS ) features  a  touch screen and built-in microphone , and supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards .
Additionally , the revised version  of  the NDS , the DSi , features two built in cameras , the ability to download games from the DSi store , and a web browser .
The PlayStation Portable , or PSP , released later the same year on 12 December 2004  , followed  a different pattern .
It became the first handheld video game console to use an optical disc   format , Universal Media Disc ( UMD ) , as its primary storage media .
Sony also  gave the  PSP robust multi-media capability , connectivity with the PlayStation 3 and other PSPs , and Internet connectivity .
The Nintendo DS likewise has  कनेक्टिविटी to the  internet through the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and Nintendo DS Browser , as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles .
Despite high sales numbers for both consoles , PlayStation Portable sales have  consistently  lagged behind those of the Nintendo DS ; nevertheless , the PlayStation Portable has the distinction of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system .
Sgt . Pepper 's Lonely Hearts Club Band ( often shortened to Sgt . Pepper ) is the eighth studio album by  अंग्रेज़ी  rock band the Beatles .
Released in June 1967 , the album included songs such as `` With a Little Help from My Friends `` , `` Lucy in the  आसमान साथ ईंट ``  , and `` A Day in the Life `` .
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ) , Sgt . Pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock idiom of the time and incorporated balladry  ,  psychedelic , music hall , and symphonic influences .
During the Sgt . Pepper sessions  , the समूह  improved upon the quality of their music 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques .
Producer George Martin 's innovative approach included the  उपयोग of an  orchestra .
Widely acclaimed and imitated , the album cover , designed by English pop artists Peter Blake and Jann Haworth , was inspired by a sketch by Paul McCartney that depicted the band posing in front of a collage of some of  उनके पसंदीदा हस्तियाँ  .
Sgt . Pepper was a worldwide critical and  वाणिज्यिक  success , spending 27 weeks at the top of the UK Album Chart and 15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200 .
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock style , the album was  critically acclaimed upon  release and won four Grammy Awards in 1968 .
With an  अनुमानित  32 million copies sold , it is one of the world 's best selling albums .
Sgt . Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential and famous rock album ever , and has been named the greatest album of all  समय by दोनो सब समय शीर्ष  1000 Albums and Rolling Stone .
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that  is  located beneath the lateral fissure on both cerebral hemispheres of the mammalian brain .
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories , processing sensory input , comprehending  भाषा  , storing new memories , emotion , and deriving meaning .
The human lungs are the  अंगों  of respiration in humans .
Humans have two lungs , a right lung  और  a left lung .
The right lung consists of three lobes while the  बाएँ  lung is slightly smaller consisting of only two lobes ( the left lung has a `` cardiac notch '' allowing space for the heart within the chest ) .
Together , the lungs contain approximately of airways and  300  to 500 million alveoli , having a total surface area of about ( ) in adults — roughly the same area as one side of a tennis court .
furthermore ,  if all of the capillaries that surround the alveoli were unwound and laid end to end , they would extend for about .
Each lung  weighs  , therefore making the entire organ about .
इंसान  lungs
The trachea  divides into  two bronchi ( one for each side ) at the level of T4 .
This junction is  भी  known as the carina .
The conducting zone contains the trachea , the bronchi  , the  bronchioles , and the terminal bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles , the alveolar ducts , and the alveoli .
The conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers ( but not the alveoli ) are  made up of  airways .
The conducting zone has no gas exchange  साथ  the blood , and is reinforced with cartilage in order to hold open the airways .
The  conducting  zone warms the air to and humidifies the air .
It  भी cleanses the एयर  by removing particles via cilia located on the walls of all the passageways .
the फेफड़े हैं घिरी by the पसली पिंजरा .
The  respiratory मण्डल is  the site of gas exchange with blood .
The sympathetic nervous system via noradrenaline acting on  the  beta receptors causes bronchodilation .
The parasympathetic nervous  system via  acetylcholine , which acts on the M-3 muscarinic receptors , maintains the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle .
This action is related , although considered distinct from  bronchoconstriction  .
Many other non-autonomic nervous and biochemical stimuli , including carbon  डाइऑक्साइड और ऑक्सीजन  , are also involved in the regulation process .
the pleural गुहा is the संभावित स्पेस between the parietal pleura , अस्तर the भीतरी वॉल of the thoracic पिंजरा , और the visceral pleura अस्तर the फेफड़े .
The lung parenchyma is strictly used to  refer  solely to alveolar tissue with respiratory bronchioles , alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles .
However , it often includes any form of lung tissue , also including  bronchioles ,  bronchi , blood vessels and lung interstitium .
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of tequila mixed with Cointreau or similar orange -flavoured liqueur and lime or lemon juice ,  प्रायः परोसा साथ नमक on the कांच  rim .
It is the most common tequila-based cocktail in the United  States  .
The drink is served shaken with ice ( on the  रॉक्स )  , blended with ice ( frozen margarita ) , or without ice ( straight up ) .
Two bottles of red Burgundy wine from  gevrey-chambertin , côtes  de Nuits
Burgundy  is a अंधेरा रेड रंग संबद्ध साथ the बरगंडी वाइन of the वही नाम , जिससे in फेरे is नामित बाद the बरगंडी प्रदेश of फ़्रांस .
The color burgundy is similar to other shades of dark red such as maroon  .
When referring to the color , `` burgundy  ''  is usually not capitalized .
The  first  recorded use of `` burgundy '' as a color name in English was in 1881 .
Grave of an unknown British soldier , killed in 1943 during the  बैटल  of Leros .
Because his identity is unknown , he is missing in  कार्रवाई  .
संगीन  of an unknown American soldier in Oise-Aisne Cemetery .
मारे  in 1917
Grave of an unknown paratrooper  ,  killed in the Battle of Arnhem , 1944 .
Photographed  in  April 1945
Graves of 11 unknown British soldiers killed during  संसार  War II , in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
वॉल crypts containing  remains of unknown Italian soldiers killed during World War II , in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000  names inscribed  on the Thiepval Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of unknown French soldiers killed during World War   One .
Each concrete cross has a metal plaque bearing the word ``  inconnu '' i.e . ``  Unknown ''
Ossuary at the Gallipoli battlefield , containing the remains of 3000 unidentified French soldiers  जो died  in 1915
क़ब्रों  of unknown Eritrean Ascaris killed in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
लापता in कार्रवाई ( मिया ) is a casualty श्रेणी आबंटित अंतर्गत the औकात of लापता to हथियारबंद सेवाएं कर्मियों जो हैं reported लापता दौरान क्रियाशील सेवा  .
They may have been killed ,  wounded  , become a prisoner of war , or deserted .
if मृतक , neither उनके remains nor संगीन can be positively पहचाना  .
बनने मिया रै महरूम an occupational रिस्क लिये सेवा कर्मियों लिये as long as वहीँ रै महरूम warfare  .
कक्ष  of Commerce Building in Center .
इस भवन is the असली कारावास , निर्मित साथ साथ the ऐतिहासिक courthouse .
Both sit  on the  Town Square .
The Rio  थिएटर  in Center
पहला बैपटिस्ट  Church at 117 Cora Street in Center is located next to the downtown section .
First Christian Church at 124 Cora  Street in  Center is one of the oldest congregations in the community .
Center is a city   in Shelby County , Texas , United States .
The population was 5,193  at the  2010 census .
It is the county  सीट  of Shelby County .
It is named for  its location near  the center of Shelby County , not for its location in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border .
तीव्र  red-eye effect in blue eyes with dilated pupil
the red-eye प्रभाव in छायाचित्र  is the common appearance of red pupils in color photographs of eyes .
It occurs when  using  a photographic flash very close to the camera lens ( as with most compact cameras ) , in ambient low light .
The effect appears in the eyes of humans and animals that have  tapetum lucidum  .
Theatrical followspot operators , positioned nearly coincidentally  with  a very bright light and somewhat distant from the actors , occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage .
The effect is not visible to  the  rest of the audience because it is reliant on the very small angle between the followspot operator and the light .
The University of California , Santa Barbara ( commonly referred to as UC Santa Barbara or UCSB ) is a public research  विश्वविद्यालयों और एक of the  ten general campuses of the University of California system .
The main  कैम्पस  is located on a site in Goleta , California , United States , from Santa Barbara and northwest of Los Angeles .
Tracing its roots back to 1891 as an independent teachers ' college , UCSB joined the University of California system in 1944 and is  the third-oldest  general-education campus in the system .
UCSB is  एक of अमेरिका 's पब्लिक आइवी विश्वविद्यालयों , जिससे recognizes शीर्ष पब्लिक शोध विश्वविद्यालयों in the संयुक्त राज्य .
The university is a comprehensive doctoral  विश्वविद्यालयों  and is organized into five colleges and schools offering 87 undergraduate degrees and 55 graduate degrees .
The campus is the 6th-largest in the UC system  by नामांकन  with 18,977 undergraduate and 2,950 graduate students .
In 2012 , UCSB was ranked 41st among `` National Universities  '' और  10th among public universities by U.S. News & World Report .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों थी भी क्रमित 35th विश्वव्यापी by the टाइम्स उच्चतर शिक्षा संसार विश्वविद्यालयों rankings और 34th विश्वव्यापी ( 6th विश्वव्यापी लिये अभियान्त्रिकी ) by the अकादमिक रैंकिंग of संसार विश्वविद्यालयों in 2012. < संदर्भ name= '' shanghairanking.com/fieldeng2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity '' research university and spent $ 191.2 million on research expenditures in the 2007 fiscal year , 97th-largest in the  संयुक्त राज्य  .
UCSB houses twelve national research   centers , including the renowned Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics .
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates , one Fields Medalist , 29 members of the National Academy of Sciences , 27  सदस्यों of the नेशनल अकादमी  of Engineering , and 31 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
UCSB was the No . 3 host on the  arpanet  and was elected to the Association of American Universities in 1995 .
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos compete in the NCAA Division I Big  वेस्ट  Conference .
The Gauchos have won NCAA national championships in men 's soccer and  मेन  's water polo .
Saint Joseph with the Infant Jesus by   Guido Reni
Saint Joseph 's Day , March 19 ,  the Feast of St.  Joseph is in Western Christianity the principal feast day of Saint Joseph , Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary .
He is also the  step-father  of Jesus of Nazareth /Jesus Christ .
It has the rank of a  solemnity in the रोमन  Catholic Church ; Catholics who follow the Missal of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast .
Previous to   1962 it was celebrated as a feast of the rank of double of the first class .
it is a feast or commemoration in the प्रांतों of the anglican नियाज़ , और a feast or पर्व in the लूथरन गिरिजाघर  .
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as for Canada , persons named  जोसेफ ,  Josephine , etc. , for religious institutes , schools and parishes bearing his name , and for carpenters .
It is also Father 's Day in some Catholic countries , mainly   Spain , Portugal , and Italy .
March 19 was dedicated to Saint Joseph in  अनेक  Western calendars by the tenth century , and this custom was established in Rome by 1479 .
Pope St. Pius V extended  इसके उपयोग to  the entire Roman Rite by his Apostolic Constitution Quo Primum ( July 14 , 1570 ) .
Since 1969 , Episcopal   Conferences may , if they wish , transfer it to a date outside Lent .
Between 1870 and 1955 ,  a feast  was celebrated in honor of St. Joseph as Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Patron of the Universal Church , the latter title having been given to him by Pope Pius IX .
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after Easter with an octave , after Divino Afflatu of St. Pius X ( see Reform of the Roman Breviary by Pope Pius X ) , it was moved to the preceding   Wednesday .
the feast  was also retitled The Solemnity of Saint Joseph .
This celebration and its accompanying octave was abolished during the modernisation and simplification  of rubrics  under Pope Pius XII in 1955 .
It is still maintained by  catholics जो follow  the missal of 1962 or earlier missals .
As the traditional holiday of the Apostles Ss . Philip and James , May 1 , had faded from the memory of most Catholics by the mid-twentieth century , that of Joseph the Worker was created in order to coincide with the  जश्न  of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries .
the feast of ss . फिलिप और जेम्स , जिससे था महरूम मनाये on कि तिथि चूंकि the छठे सदी , थी स्थानांतरित इससे इसके परंपरागत  place .
In the new calendar published in 1969 , the feast , which at one time occupied the highest possible rank in the Church  calendar  , was reduced to an optional Memorial , the lowest rank for a saint 's day .
The Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates Saint Joseph on the Sunday  बाद  Christmas .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an American singer , songwriter , record producer ,  अभिनेत्री  , and philanthropist .
Under the guidance of  कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड कार्यपालिका टॉमी mottola  , Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ) , Music Box ( 1993 ) , and  मैरी क्रिसमस ( 1994 ) , कैरी थी  established as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its second single `` One Sweet Day `` , a duet with Boyz II Men , spent a record sixteen weeks  on शीर्ष of the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 , और  remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording of the album , Carey began to deviate from  उसके r & b और पॉप  beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop .
This musical change became evident with the   release of Butterfly ( 1997 ) , at which time Carey had separated from Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 , and signed a record-breaking $ 100 million recording contract with Virgin  रिकॉर्ड  .
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001 ) , she suffered a physical and emotional  विश्लेषण और थी hospitalized  for severe exhaustion .
following the फिल्मी 's ग़रीब रिसेप्शन , वो थी खरीदा आउट of उसके रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध लिये $ 50 लाख , जिससे led to a मनाही in  her career .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002 , and  बाद an unsuccessful काल  , returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s , and was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by  बिलबोर्ड  .
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ;  she was awarded the `` Breakthrough  Performance Award '' at the Palm Springs International Film Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a  करियर spanning over दो दशकों , कैरी रै बेची अधिक than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी , बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling म्यूज़िक कलाकारों of सब समय .
In 1998 , she was   honored as the world 's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards .
Carey was also named the best-selling  मादा कलाकार  of the millennium in 2000 .
According to the Recording Industry Association of  अमेरिका  , she is the third best-selling female artist in the United States , with 63.5 million certified albums .
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ) , Carey gained her eighteenth number one single in the United States , more than   any other solo artist .
In 2012 , Carey   was ranked second on VH1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in Music '' .
Aside from her  वाणिज्यिक accomplishments  , Carey has won five Grammy Awards , 17 World Music Awards , 11 American Music Awards , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the Guinness World Records , she is famed for her five-octave vocal range , power ,  melismatic स्टाइल  and signature use of the whistle register .
A bumblebee is any member of the bee genus Bombus , in the  परिवार  Apidae .
There are over 250 known species , existing primarily in the Northern Hemisphere  हालांकि  they also occur in South America .
They have been introduced to New Zealand and the Australian state of   Tasmania .
Bumblebees are social insects  कि हैं  characterised by black and yellow body hairs , often in bands .
However , some species  have  orange or red on their bodies , or may be entirely black .
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the soft nature of the hair  ( long , branched  setae ) , called pile , that covers their entire body , making them appear and feel fuzzy .
They are best distinguished from similarly large , fuzzy bees by the form of the female hind leg , which is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave surface that is bare , but surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to transport pollen ( in similar bees , the hind leg is completely hairy , and pollen grains  हैं wedged into the  hairs for transport ) .
Like their relatives   the honey bees , bumblebees feed on nectar and gather pollen to feed their young .
A  man खुलकर carrying a handgun in a बर्गर किंग in त्रिभुज , कोलोराडो .
In the United States , open carry is shorthand terminology for ``  खुलकर carrying a firearm in पब्लिक ''  , as distinguished from concealed carry , where firearms can not be seen by the casual observer .
the अभ्यास of खोलें carry , जहाँ गन स्वामी खुलकर carry firearms जबकि वे go परिचय उनके रोज़ कारोबार , रै देखी an बढ़ाएँ in the u.S. in हाल सालो .
This has been marked by a number of organized events intended to increase the visibility of   open carry and public awareness about the practice .
Proponents of open carry point to  इतिहास  and statistics , noting that criminals usually conceal their weapons .
Encouraged by groups like OpenCarry.org , GeorgiaCarry.org and some participants of the Free State Project , open carry has seen a revival in recent years  , लकिन it is नहीं  yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend .
The gun rights community  रै  been mixed in its response .
Alan Gottlieb of the Second Amendment Foundation and the NRA have been cautious in expressing  support , while  special-interest groups such as the aforementioned OpenCarry.org and GeorgiaCarry.org , and certain national groups such as the Gun Owners of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice .
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control groups such as the Brady  अभियान और the गठबन्धन to रोकें  Gun Violence .
The Cattenom  नाभिकीय  Power Plant in France .
France produces  around तीन  quarters of its electricity by nuclear power .
The  grafenrheinfeld  Nuclear Power Plant in Germany .
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30 , 2011 , that Germany’s 17 nuclear power stations will be shut down by 2022 , in a policy reversal following Japan 's  फुकुशिमा daiichi नाभिकीय विपत्ति  .
Currently ,  68  reactors are under construction in 15 countries .
Nuclear power stations  operate  in thirty countries .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster , it was reported that an average  of परिचय 10 नाभिकीय रिएक्टरों यहूद अपेक्षित to become operational  per year , although according to the World Nuclear Association , of the 17 civilian reactors planned to become operational between 2007 and 2009 , only five actually came on stream .
As of June 2011 ,  जर्मनी  and Switzerland are phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark , Greece , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Luxembourg , Malaysia ,  माल्टा , नई  Zealand , Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power .
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a format suitable for use in a motion picture camera , and to finished  गति चित्र फिल्मी , तैयार लिये उपयोग in a प्रोजेक्टर , जिससे bears बिंब in रंग  .
The first color  cinematography थी by अर्थात् of योगात्मक रंग प्रणालियों ऐसे as the एक patented in इंग्लैण्ड by एडवर्ड रेमंड टर्नर in 1899 और tested in 1902 .
A simplified additive system was developed by George   Albert Smith and successfully commercialized in 1909 as Kinemacolor .
These early systems used   black-and-white film to photograph and project two or more component images through different color filters .
Still from footage  अंकित by एडवर्ड  Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology , there  हैं दो पृथक प्रक्रियाओं : eastman रंग ऋणात्मक 2 रसायन ( कैमरा ऋणात्मक स्टॉक्स , duplicating interpositive और internegative स्टॉक्स ) और eastman रंग धनात्मक 2 रसायन ( धनात्मक prints लिये सीधा प्रक्षेप ) , प्रायः abbreviated as ecn-2 और ecp-2 .
Fuji 's  उत्पाद  are compatible with ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
Ashanti Shequoiya  डगलस ( born अक्तूबर  13 , 1980 ) is an American singer-songwriter , record producer , and actress .
Ashanti is   most famous for her eponymous debut album , which featured the hit song `` Foolish `` , and sold over 503,000 copies in its first week of release throughout the U.S. in April 2002 .
the एल्बम नियत a soundscan रिकार्ड as the biggest खोलने सप्ताह बिक्री लिये a नई मादा कलाकार , outselling debuts by एलिसिया कुंजियाँ और लॉरिन हिल .
In the same week , she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two places on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with  `` Foolish '' , and  `` What 's Luv ? ``
(  साथ  Fat Joe ) .
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs , `` Foolish  , '' ``  What 's Luv ? '' and `` Always on Time `` , on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the same week , being the first woman to accomplish this feat and being second only to the Beatles .
In 2003 , the self-titled  डेब्यू एल्बम  won Ashanti her first Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R & B album .
As of April 1st 2013 , Ashanti has sold over 27.7 million  records  worldwide .
ashanti ended  the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the third top new R & B artist behind Alicia Keys and Beyoncé .
She also ended the decade at number 38 on the Top Artist of  the Decade  list .
She is  फिलहाल  on the list of The Twenty Best Selling Music Singles Since 1990 for her single Foolish for selling 7.2 million copies to-date .
Ashanti has  an अनुमानित  net worth of $ 40 million dollars [ USD ] .
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) `` , which reached number one on Billboard Hot 100 , which was also in the top 10 chart at the same time as `` Foolish '' , ``  Always on Time  '' ( with Ja Rule ) , and `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ) .
Later that  साल , वो थी acclaimed as  the `` Princess Of Hip-Hop & R & B '' by her label and capped off her successful debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards .
Within  सात सालो of ashanti  's career , she has scored 16 top 40 hits on the Hot 100 .
Ashanti has endorsed numerous products including Gap , Herbal  essences और  Mudd Jeans .
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston , Janet Jackson , Prince ,  मैडोना ,  Tupac Shakur , Mary J. Blige , Ella Fitzgerald , Smokey Robinson , Donna Summer , and Blue Magic as her musical influences .
Praised as a gifted songwriter by her peers and critics   alike , Ashanti has written/co-written the bulk of all her music .
She is  फिलहाल  working on her own publishing company entitled Written Entertainment .
She released her fourth studio album   entitled The Declaration on June 3 , 2008 and is currently in the studio working on her fifth .
She also performed the charity tune `` Just Stand Up `` alongside 15 other  female singers for the ``  Stand Up to Cancer '' live television special which helped raise $ 100 million dollars for cancer research .
The  संयुक्त  States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the military aviation arm of the United States of America during and immediately after World War II , and the direct predecessor of the United States Air Force .
The AAF was a component of the United States Army , which in 1942 was divided functionally by executive order into three autonomous forces : the Army Ground Forces , the Services of Supply ( which  in 1943  became the Army Service Forces ) , and the AAF .
Each of these forces had a commanding general who reported directly to the Chief of Staff  of the  United States Army .
The AAF administered all parts of military aviation formerly distributed among the Army Air Corps , General Headquarters Air Force  ,  and ground forces corps area commanders , and thus became the first air organization of the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel .
in अभ्यास , the aaf थी वस्तुतः autonomous अंदर the फौज .
The peak size of the AAF was over 2.4 million men and women in service and nearly  80,000 वायुयान in 1944 ,  and 783 domestic bases in December 1943 .
By VE Day it had 1.25 million men stationed overseas and operated from more than  1,600 airfields विश्वव्यापी  .
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air arm a  वृहद स्वायत्तता  in which to expand more efficiently , and to provide a structure for the additional command echelons required by a vastly increased force .
Although other nations already had separate air forces independent of the army or navy ( such as the  अंग्रेजों royal एयर  Force and the German Luftwaffe ) , the AAF remained a part of the United States Army until the United States Air Force came into being in September 1947 .
However , in its expansion and  conduct  of the war , the AAF became more than just an arm of the greater organization .
By the end of World War  ii the  AAF had become virtually an independent service .
By regulation and executive order , the AAF was a subordinate agency of the War  विभाग  tasked only with organizing , training , and equipping combat units , limited in responsibility to the continental United States , as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces .
in वास्तविकता , मुख्यालय aaf नियंत्रित the conduct of सब पहलुओं of the एयर युद्ध in प्रत्येक भाग of the संसार , determining एयर नीति और issuing आदेश बगैर  transmitting them through the Chief of Staff .
This `` contrast between theory and  फैक्ट  is ... fundamental to an understanding of the AAF . ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of information law that allows for the full or partial disclosure of previously unreleased information and documents controlled by the United  राज्य  government .
The Act defines agency records subject to disclosure , outlines mandatory disclosure procedures and  grants  nine exemptions to the statute .
It was originally signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson , despite his misgivings , on July 4 , 1966 as and went into  प्रभाव the following  year .
The Federal Government 's Freedom of  सूचना अधिनियम  should not be confused with the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the individual states .
Many of those state acts may be similar but not  एकसमान  to the federal act .
The European Union ( EU ) is an economic and political union of 27 member states that are  स्तिथ primarily in  Europe .
The EU operates through a system of supranational independent institutions and   intergovernmental negotiated decisions by the member states .
Institutions of the EU include the European Commission , the  Council of the  European Union , the European Council , the Court of Justice of the European Union , the European Central Bank , the Court of Auditors , and the European Parliament .
The European Parliament is elected every   five years by EU citizens .
The EU 's de facto capital is Brussels   .
The EU traces its origins from the European Coal and Steel Community ( ECSC ) and the European Economic Community ( EEC ) , formed by the Inner Six  देशों in 1951  and 1958 respectively .
In the intervening years the community and its successors have grown in size by the accession of new member states and in power  by the addition of  policy areas to its remit .
The Maastricht Treaty established   the European Union under its current name in 1993 .
The latest major amendment to the constitutional  आधार  of the EU , the Treaty of Lisbon , came into force in 2009 .
The EU has developed a single market  through a  standardised system of laws that apply in all member states .
Within the Schengen Area  ( which  includes 22 EU and 4 non-EU states ) passport controls have been abolished .
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people ,  goods , सेवाएं , और पूंजी , enact विधान  in justice and home affairs , and maintain common policies on trade , agriculture , fisheries and regional development .
A monetary union , the eurozone , was established in 1999 and is composed  of 17 सदस्य राज्य  .
Through the Common Foreign and Security Policy the EU has developed a role in external   relations and defence .
Permanent diplomatic missions have been established around  the  world .
the eu is represented at the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , the wto , the g8 और the g-20 .
With a combined population of over 500 million inhabitants , or 7.3 % of the world population  , the  EU , in 2012 , generated a nominal gross domestic product ( GDP ) of 16.584 trillion US dollars , representing approximately 20 % of the global GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity , and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world .
The EU was the   recipient of the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize .
The Wales national rugby league team represent Wales   in international rugby league football matches .
Currently the team  is सातवाँ  in the RLIF World Rankings .
The team were run under the auspices of the Rugby Football League ,  लकिन an स्वतंत्र  body , Wales Rugby League , now runs the team from Cardiff .
A total of three Welsh players  have महरूम  entered into the Rugby League Hall Of Fame .
Similar to many other Welsh  नेशनल  sporting teams , Wales strip has been primarily red for many years , including now .
However in their last World Cup campaign in 2000 they did  wear a shirt  featuring the Welsh flag , adding a touch of green and white .
The team is  ज्ञात as `` the ड्रेगन '' और so the टीमों लोगो on the कमीज़ is a रेड ड्रैगन .
The team date back to 1907  , बनाना उन्हें  the third oldest national side after England and New Zealand .
And it was a touring New Zealand side that Wales first played against in 1908 , winning  9-8 at aberdare  .
Since then Wales have regularly played England , since 1935 France , as well as welcomed the touring Australia  and New  Zealand teams , although they rarely toured themselves , not playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975 .
For twenty-six years Wales competed against their two biggest rivals , England   and France , in the European Nations Cup , winning the trophy four times .
Wales have also competed in the World Cup on three occasions   , the first time being in 1975 .
In 1995 and 2000 they had their most successful tournaments to date , surprisingly  making the  Semi-Finals on both occasions before being beaten by England and Australia respectively .
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup , being the second highest  क्रमित  side not to do so , having lost to Scotland on points difference over two matches .
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new   head coach and appointed Lee Briers as captain , having played for Wales since 1998 .
In recent seasons Wales have taken massive  strides under former  player Iestyn Harris who has coached Wales to back to back European Cup successes , which culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011 .
Cardiomyopathy ( literally `` heart muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the heart muscle ) for any reason , usually leading to heart failure ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and peripheral edema ( swelling of  the  legs ) .
People with cardiomyopathy are  प्रायः at रिस्क of खतरनाक  forms of irregular heart beat and sudden cardiac death .
The most common form of cardiomyopathy  is  dilated cardiomyopathy .
Fuck in its literal  अर्थ  refers to the act of sexual intercourse .
It is an English word that   is often used as a profanity , either to denote disdain or as an intensifier .
the उत्पत्ति of the शब्द is अस्पष्ट  .
It is usually  माना  to be first attested to around 1475 , but it may be considerably older .
In  आधुनिक  usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun , a verb , an adjective or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the  शब्द  , as well as a number of compounds incorporating it , such as motherfucker .
नोट : इस आलेख adopts the u.S. विभाग of परिवहन 's परिभाषा of a यात्री गाडी , to औसत a car or ट्रक , प्रयुक्त लिये यात्री , excluding बसें  and trains .
The  संयुक्त  States is home to the largest passenger vehicle market of any country in the world .
Overall , there were an estimated 254.4 million registered  यात्री  vehicles in the United States according to a 2007 DOT study .
This number , along with the average age of vehicles , has increased steadily since 1960 , indicating  a growing  number of vehicles per capita .
The Chinese car market , however , is poised to soon exceed the United States ; by the end of 2012 , there were  over  240 million cars on the road in China .
The United States is also home to three large vehicle manufacturers : General Motors , Ford Motor Company and Chrysler  ,  which have historically been referred to as the `` Big Three . ''
Chrysler however is no longer among the top three ; but is number five , behind Toyota and  होंडा .
The motor car has clearly become an integral part of American  जीवन  , with vehicles outnumbering licensed drivers .
Clinical laboratory in a  हॉस्पिटल  setting showing several automated analysers .
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are done on clinical specimens in order  to get  information about the health of a patient as pertaining to the diagnosis , treatment , and prevention of disease .
In poker , players construct hands of five cards according to predetermined rules , which vary according to which variant  of  poker is being played .
ये हैंड्स हैं compared using  a hand ranking system that is standard across all variants of poker , the player with the highest-ranking hand winning that particular deal in most variants of poker .
in  some variants , the lowest-ranking hand can win or tie .
These   hand rankings are also used in some other card games , and in poker dice .
The ranking of a particular hand  is increased by सहित अनेक ताश of the वही कार्ड रैंक , by सब पाँच ताश होने इससे the वही सूट , or by सब पाँच ताश होने of लगातार रैंक .
The relative ranking  of the  various hand categories is based on the probability of being randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck .
Bruce Randall Hornsby ( born November  23  , 1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a singer , pianist , synthesizer , accordion , and dulcimer player , and songwriter .
ज्ञात लिये the  spontaneity and creativity of his live performances , Hornsby draws frequently from classical , jazz , bluegrass , folk , Motown , gospel , rock , blues , and jam band musical traditions with his songwriting and the seamless improvisations contained within .
Hornsby 's recordings have been recognised on a number of occasions with industry awards , including the Best New  कलाकार ग्रैमी in 1987 साथ  Bruce Hornsby and the Range , the Best Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990 , and the Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993 .
Hornsby has also   achieved recognition for his solo albums and performances , his touring band Bruce Hornsby and the Noisemakers , his bluegrass project with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician .
He also collaborated with Grateful Dead and was  a member  of the band from September 1990 to March 1992 , playing at over one hundred shows during that period .
गन्ना वृक्षारोपण  in rural Cuba
Agriculture in Cuba has played an important part in the economy  लिये  several hundred years .
Agriculture contributes less than 10 percent to the gross domestic product ( GDP ) , but it employs roughly  20 percent  of the working population .
About 30  प्रतिशत of the  country 's land is used for crop cultivation .
The inefficient agricultural industry in Cuba has led to the  need  to import large amounts of foods .
Cuba now imports  परिचय  80 % of the food it rations to the public .
The rationing program  खाते  for about a third of the food energy the average Cuban consumes .
Overall ,  however  , Cuba is dependent on imports for only 16 % of its food .
सही
Mega Millions ( initially called The Big Game Mega Millions as the successor of The Big Game ) is an  अमरीकी  multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game .
The  पहला ( the बिग  Game ) Mega Millions drawing was in 2002 ( see below ) .
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000 , paid in 26 equal yearly installments  ( unless the cash  option is chosen ) ; usually , the jackpot increases when there is no top-prize winner .
However , despite no jackpot winner  for the $  12,000,000 December 18 , 2012 drawing , the jackpot remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on December 21 .
(  देखिए नीचे लिये सूचना on कैसा the खेल 's जैकपॉट is वित्तपोषित . )
reflecting आम अभ्यास among अमरीकी lotteries , the जैकपॉट is advertised as a नाममात्र मान of सालाना किश्तों  .
A  नकदी मान विकल्प ( the  usual choice ) , when chosen by a jackpot winner ( see below ) , pays the approximate present value of the installments .
Mega Millions currently uses a 5/56  ( white balls  ) plus 1/46 ( the Mega Ball ) double matrix to select its winning numbers .
Each game  लागत  $ 1 .
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is the  exception )  , there is an option , called Megaplier ( such games are $ 2 each ) where non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2 , 3 , or 4 .
The Megaplier was made available  to सब आचमन  Millions jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option .
Mega Millions is drawn at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time Tuesdays and Fridays ,  सहित  holidays .
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of its 12 original lotteries and the drawings  हैं आयोजित at wsb-tv in  Atlanta , Georgia .
supervised by the  जॉर्जिया  Lottery .
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions , as well as  in अमरीकी लॉटरी इतिहास , थी $ 656,000,000  annuitized ( with a cash option of $ 474,000,000 ) for the March 30 , 2012 drawing in which there were three jackpot-winning tickets ; one each in Illinois , Kansas , and Maryland .
सब तीन  tickets had been claimed as of April 18 , with each set of winners choosing the cash option .
is  a  Japanese manga series created by writer Tsugumi Ohba and manga artist Takeshi Obata .
The main character is Light Yagami , a high school student who discovers a  अलौकिक कोपी  , the `` Death Note '' , dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk .
The Death Note grants its user the ability to kill anyone whose name and face they know , by writing the  name in the  notebook while picturing their face .
The series centers around Light 's  attempt to बनाएँ और नियम  a world `` cleansed of evil '' as `` God '' using the notebook , and the efforts of a detective known as L to stop him .
Death  नोट थी पहला serialized in 108 अध्याय by shueisha in the जापानी manga पत्रिका साप्ताहिक shōnen जम्प इससे दिसम्बर 2003 to may 2006 .
The series was also published in tankōbon format in Japan starting  in  May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a total of thirteen volumes .
The anime series aired in Japan from October  3 , 2006 ,  to June 26 , 2007 .
Composed of 37  एपीसोड ,  the anime was developed by Madhouse and directed by Tetsuro Araki .
A light novel based on the series , written by Nisio Isin , was  released  in Japan .
Additionally , various  वीडियो  games have been published by Konami for Nintendo DS .
The series was adapted into  live-action  films released in Japan on June 17 , 2006 , November 3 , 2006 , and February 2 , 2008 .
Viz Media licensed the Death Note manga in North America and has published all the twelve volumes from the series , a 13th volume which serves as a `` reader 's guide '' , as well as the light  novels  .
The episodes from the anime first appeared in North  अमेरिका as downloadable  by IGN .
Viz later licensed the anime series  and it  aired on Bionix in Canada and on Cartoon Network in the United States .
The live-action films  briefly  played in certain North American theaters since 2008 .
However , none of the video games have thus far  महरूम प्रकाशित  in North America or Europe .
Death Note is one of Weekly Shōnen Jumps best-selling manga series of all time ,  साथ बिक्री over 26.5  million copies .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ) , also known as All Hallows ' Eve , is a yearly celebration observed in a number of countries on October 31 , the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All  संतो ) और the दिन initiating the triduum of  Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast  originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय कटाई  festivals , and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
Other   scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots .
Typical festive  हैलोवीन क्रियाएँ  include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties , carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , apple bobbing , visiting haunted attractions , playing pranks , telling scary stories , and watching horror films .
New York City taxicabs during Midtown rush hour in  मैनहटन
The taxicabs of New York City , with their distinctive yellow   paint , are a widely recognized icon of the city .
Taxicabs are operated by private companies and licensed by the New York City Taxi and  लिमोज़ीन  Commission ( TLC ) .
It also oversees over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles , including `` black cars '' , commuter vans  and  ambulettes .
`` Medallion taxis , '' the  परिचित पीला कैब , हैं  the only vehicles in the city permitted to pick up passengers in response to a street hail .
Schematic cross  खण्ड  of part of leaf , xylem shown as red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem is one of  the दो  types of transport tissue in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ) .
the शब्द जाइलम is निकला इससे the यूनानी शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ) , अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक is लकडी , हालांकि it is मिला throughout the संयंत्र  .
Its basic function is to transport water , but it also  transports कुछ  nutrients through the plant .
U.S. women suffragists demonstrating for the   right to vote , February 1913 .
Women 's   suffrage also known as woman suffrage is the right of women to vote and to run for office .
Limited   voting rights were gained by women in Sweden , Finland and some western U.S. states in the late 19th century .
International  संगठन यहूद formed to निर्देशांक प्रयत्न  , especially the International Council of Women ( 1888 ) and the International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ) .
In 1893 , New Zealand , then a self-governing British colony , granted adult women the right  to vote और  the self-governing British colony of South Australia did the same in 1895 , but also permitted women to run for office .
Australia federated in 1901 , and women  acquired the सही to vote और स्टैंड in संघीय चुनावों इससे 1902 , हालांकि uneven प्रतिबंध on aboriginal महिलाओं मतदान in नेशनल चुनावों यहूद नहीं completely removed जबतक 1962 .
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of  फिनलैंड  , then part of the Russian Empire , which also produced the world 's first female members of parliament in the 1907 parliamentary elections .
Norway followed , granting   full women 's suffrage in 1913 .
In most Western countries , women 's suffrage came after World I War I I , with some important late adopters being France in 1944 and  स्विट्ज़रलैंड in 1971  .
Women 's suffrage has generally been recognized after political   campaigns to obtain it were waged .
In many  देशों  it was granted before universal suffrage .
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right under the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of  पक्षपात विरूद्ध महिलाओं , अपनाया by the  United Nations in 1979 .
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a gothic suspense  अनोखा , the लेखक 's  first published book .
Jehovah 's Witnesses is a millenarian restorationist Christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream Christianity .Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : The organization reports worldwide membership of over 7.78 million adherents involved in evangelism , convention attendance of over 12 million , and   annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million .
They are directed by the Governing Body of Jehovah 's Witnesses , a group of elders in Brooklyn , New York , that  establishes  all doctrines .
Jehovah 's Witnesses '  मान्यताओं हैं आधारित on  their interpretations of the Bible and they prefer to use their own translation , the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures .
They believe that the destruction of the present world system at Armageddon is imminent , and that the establishment of God 's kingdom on earth is the only solution for all problems faced by mankind   .
The group emerged from the Bible  छात्र गति  —founded in the late 1870s by Charles Taze Russell with the formation of Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society —with significant organizational and doctrinal changes under the leadership of Joseph Franklin Rutherford .
The name Jehovah 's witnesses , based on Isaiah 43:10–12 , was adopted in 1931 to distinguish themselves from other Bible Student groups and  symbolize  a break with the legacy of Russell 's traditions .
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known for their door-to-door preaching , distributing  साहित्य  such as The Watchtower and Awake !
, and refusing military   service and blood transfusions .
They consider use of the name Jehovah vital  लिये  proper worship .
They reject Trinitarianism , inherent immortality of the soul , and hellfire  , which  they consider to be unscriptural doctrines .
They do not observe Christmas , Easter , birthdays , or other holidays and customs they consider to have pagan origins incompatible with   Christianity .
Adherents commonly refer to  their body of  beliefs as `` the truth '' and consider themselves to be `` in the truth '' .
वे consider धर्मनिरपेक्ष समाज to be morally भ्रष्ट और अंतर्गत the influence of शैतानी , और सबसे सीमा उनके सोशल बातचीत साथ  non-Witnesses .
Congregational disciplinary actions include disfellowshipping , their   term for formal expulsion and shunning .
Baptized  individuals जो  formally leave are considered disassociated and are also shunned .
Disfellowshipped and disassociated individuals may eventually be reinstated if  deemed repentant  .
The  धर्म  's position regarding conscientious objection to military service and refusal to salute national flags has brought it into conflict with some governments .
नतीजतन  , Jehovah 's Witnesses have been persecuted and their activities are banned or restricted in some countries .
Persistent legal challenges by Jehovah 's Witnesses have influenced  विधान  related to civil rights in several countries .
Last Tango in Paris ( )  is a 1972  Franco-Italian romantic Drama film directed by Bernardo Bertolucci which portrays a recent American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young , betrothed Parisian woman .
It stars Marlon Brando , Maria  श्नाइडर , और jean-pierre  Léaud .
The film 's raw portrayal  of  sexual violence and emotional turmoil led to international controversy and drew various levels of government censorship .
The MPAA gave the film an X rating upon release in the  संयुक्त राज्य  .
After  revisions  were made to the MPAA ratings code , it was classified as an NC-17 in 1997 .
mgm  released a censored R-rated cut in 1981 .
The film has its NC-17 rating for `` some  सुस्पष्ट  sexual content . ''
Windows XP is an operating system produced by Microsoft for use on personal computers , including home and business desktops ,  लैपटॉप और मीडिया centers  .
First released to computer manufacturers on August 24 , 2001 , it is the second  सबसे लोकप्रिय  version of Windows , based on installed user base .
The name `` XP '' is short   for `` eXPerience '' , highlighting the enhanced user experience .
Windows XP , the successor to Windows 2000 and Windows ME , was the first consumer-oriented operating system produced by Microsoft to be  निर्मित  on the Windows NT kernel .
Windows XP was released worldwide for retail sale on October 25 , 2001 , and over 400   million copies were in use in January 2006 .
It was succeeded  by  Windows Vista in January 2007 .
Direct OEM and retail sales of Windows XP ceased on   June 30 , 2008 .
microsoft  continued to sell Windows XP through their System Builders ( smaller OEMs who sell assembled computers ) program until January 31 , 2009 .
On April 10 , 2012 , Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP and Office 2003 would end on April 8 ,  2014 और सुझाया  that administrators begin preparing to migrate to a newer OS .
the nt -आधारd संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ , जिससे हैं प्रोग्रामित in c , C++ , और सभा , हैं ज्ञात लिये उनके improved स्थिरता और दक्षता over the 9x संस्करण of microsoft खिड़कियाँ .
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical  उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस ,  a change Microsoft promoted as more user-friendly than previous versions of Windows .
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell `` that plagued the past versions of Windows , improved side-by-side assembly technology in Windows XP allows side-by-side installation , registration and servicing of multiple  संस्करण of globally साझा तन्त्र components  in full isolation .
It is also the first version of Windows  to उपयोग उत्पाद  activation to combat illegal copying .
During Windows XP 's development , the project was codenamed `` Whistler '' ,  बाद whistler , अंग्रेजों कोलंबिया , as अनेक microsoft  employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort .
According to web analytics  data  generated by Net Applications , Windows XP was the most widely used operating system until August 2012 , when Windows 7 overtook it .
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 % , having decreased almost every month since at least November 2007 , the first month  for  which statistics are publicly available from Net Applications .
`` Por una Cabeza '' is an Argentine tango with music and lyrics written in 1935 by Carlos  Gardel and Alfredo  Le Pera respectively .
The name is a Spanish horse-racing phrase meaning `` by a  सिर  '' , which refers to a horse winning a race by the length of one head .
The lyrics speak of a compulsive horse-track gambler who  compares his addiction  for horses with his attraction to women .
Alfredo Le Pera was a  ब्राज़ीलियाई  from São Paulo , a much Italian-influenced area in Brazil , and also the birthplace of Zequinha de Abreu , composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá .
Le Pera and Gardel died in an airplane crash in Medellín , ( Colombia  ) ,  on June 24 , 1935 .
Por una  cabeza
The tango has  चूंकि  been performed by numerous tango orchestras .
Tango scenes with `` Por  ऊना cabeza '' appear  in Delicatessen ( 1991 ) , Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) , Schindler 's List ( 1993 ) , True Lies ( 1994 ) , Titanic ( 1996 ) , Bad Santa ( Uncut Version , 2003 ) , All the King 's Men ( 2006 ) , Planet 51 ( 2009 ) , episode 37 of Nip/Tuck ( 2003–2010 ) , episode 9 of South Korean drama series Sweet Spy ( 2005–08 ) , the beginning and ending credits of the South Korean drama broadcast I 'm Sorry , I Love You ( 2004 ) , and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ) .
In the movie Frida (  सलमा  Hayek , 2002 ) , Gardel is heard singing it on a radio .
It is also quoted in David Del Tredici 's `` Good  न्यूज  !
Nilda is Back  '' (  from the song cycle Miz Inez Sez ) .
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) , the tango is performed by the `` The Tango  प्रोजेक्ट  '' , who actually appear in the dancing scene starring Al Pacino ( the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ) .
John Williams arranged a version of the piece that appears on the album `` Cinema Serenade ''  साथ the सारंगी  solo performed by Itzhak Perlman .
Perlman and Williams ( conducting ) have also performed the piece together in live concerts   .
In 2012 a dance version was released by the group `` Da Carrera '' featuring the original  गायन रिकॉर्डिंग by  Carlos Gardel .
The baroreflex or baroreceptor reflex is  एक of the देह 's homeostatic  mechanisms for maintaining blood pressure .
It provides a negative feedback loop in which an elevated blood pressure reflexively causes heart rate to decrease therefore causing blood pressure to decrease ; likewise , decreased  blood  pressure activates the baroreflex , causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure .
The system relies on specialized neurons , known as baroreceptors , in the aortic arch , carotid sinuses , and elsewhere to monitor  परिवर्तन  in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem .
subsequent  changes in blood pressure are mediated by the autonomic nervous system .
Atrial natriuretic peptide  forms a  parallel negative feedback loop in an endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin system .
The Loma Prieta earthquake , also known as the Quake of '89 and the  संसार श्रेणी भूकंप  , was a major earthquake that struck the San Francisco Bay Area of California on October 17 , 1989 , at 5:04 pm local time .
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault , the quake lasted 10–15 seconds and  measured 6.9 on दोनो the  moment magnitude scale ( surface-wave magnitude 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale .
The quake killed 63 people throughout northern California  ,  injured 3,757 and left some 3,000–12,000 people homeless .
The  भूकंप  occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 World Series , featuring both of the Bay Area 's Major League Baseball teams , the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants .
Because of game-related sports coverage , this was the  पहला  major earthquake in the United States to have its initial jolt broadcast live on television .
Pawn  in  the standard Staunton pattern
the साहूकार ( ♙♟ ) is the सबसे numerous और in सबसे हालातों the weakest टुकड़ा in the खेल of शतरंज , historically representing infantry or , अधिक विशेषकर , हथियारबंद peasants  or pikemen .
In chess  , each player begins the game  with eight pawns , one on each square of the rank immediately in front of the other pieces .
( In algebraic notation , the white pawns start on  a2 , b2 , c2 , ... ,  h2 , while black pawns start on a7 , b7 , c7 , ... , h7 . )
Individual  प्यादे  are referred to by the file on which they stand .
For example , one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or ``  ब्लैक 's b-pawn '' , or कम commonly  ( using descriptive notation ) , `` White 's king 's bishop pawn '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn '' .
It is also common to refer to a rook pawn ,  अर्थ कोई साहूकार on the a- or h-file  , a knight pawn ( on the b- or g-file ) , a bishop pawn ( on the c- or f-file ) , a queen pawn ( on the d-file ) , a king pawn ( on the e-file ) , and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ) .
the सैन्य शक्तियां of the संसार have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay और लेस्बियन ) और द्विलिंगी individuals  .
The armed forces of most developed countries have now removed policies excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with  सख्त  policies on sexual harassment ) .
Nations that permit gay  लोगों to serve खुलकर in the सैन्य शामिल the 4 of the  5 members of the UN Security Council ( United States , United Kingdom , France , and Russia ) , the Republic of China ( Taiwan ) , Australia , Israel , South Africa , Argentina , and all NATO members excluding Turkey .
हाइड्रोजन उत्पादन is the परिवार of औद्योगिक विधि लिये generating हाइड्रोजन .
Currently the dominant technology for  सीधा उत्पादन is  steam reforming from hydrocarbons .
Many  अन्य विधि हैं  known including electrolysis and thermolysis .
In 2006 , the United States was estimated to have a production capacity of 11 million tonnes  of  hydrogen .
5 million tonnes of hydrogen were consumed on-site in oil refining , and in the  उत्पादन of  ammonia ( Haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ) .
0.4 million tonnes  यहूद  an incidental by-product of the chlor-alkali process .
Hydrogen production is an estimated $ 100 billion  उद्योग .
A basis point ( often denoted as bp , colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips '' , also known as a `` beep '' ) is a unit equal to one hundredth  of a प्रतिशत  point , or one part per ten thousand , 1/10000 .
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad , literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ' , and in that  context  is written with which looks like a percent sign ( % ) with two extra zeroes at the end ( like a stylized form of the four zeros in the denominator , although it originates as a natural extension of the percent ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ) .
A  आधार पाइंट  is defined as:
1 basis point = 1 permyriad =  एक  one-hundredth percent
1  bp = 1  = 0.01 % = 0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100  bp = 100
Basis points are used as a convenient unit of measurement in contexts where percentage differences of less than 1 %  हैं discussed  .
The most common example is interest rates , where  मतभेद in ब्याज दरों  of less than 1 % per year are usually meaningful to talk about .
For example , a difference of 0.10 percentage points is equivalent to a change of 10 basis  अंक ( e.g . a  4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ) .
Like  प्रतिशत अंक , आधार अंक avoid the ambiguity between सापेक्ष और निरपेक्ष चर्चाएँ परिचय ब्याज दरों by dealing तभी साथ the निरपेक्ष बदलें in न्यूमेरिक मान of a रेट .
For example , if a report says there has been a `` 1 % increase '' from a 10 % interest  rate , this could  refer to an increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative , 1 % of 10 % ) , or from 10 % to 11 % ( absolute , 1 % plus 10 % ) .
If ,  however , the रपट says वहीँ रै महरूम a `` 10 आधार पाइंट बढ़ाएँ '' इससे a 10 % ब्याज रेट , तब we जान कि the ब्याज रेट of 10 % रै increased by 0.10 % ( the निरपेक्ष बदलें ) to a 10.1 % रेट .
It is common practice in the financial industry to use basis  अंक to denote  a rate change in a financial instrument , or the difference ( spread ) between two interest rates , including the yields of fixed-income securities .
Since certain loans and bonds may commonly be quoted in relation  to some index or  underlying security , they will often be quoted as a spread over ( or under ) the index .
For example , a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % per annum above the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 basis points over LIBOR , which is commonly expressed as `` L+50bps '' or simply  ``  L+50 '' .
The term `` basis point '' has its origins in trading the `` basis '' or the spread  between दो  interest rates .
Since the basis is usually small , these are quoted multiplied up by 10000 , and hence a `` full point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a basis  पाइंट  .
कंट्रास्ट  with pips in FX forward markets .
The relationship between percentage changes and basis points can be summarized  as फ़ॉलो : 1 प्रतिशत  point change = 100 basis points , and 0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point .
So , a bond whose yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by 50 basis points ; or  ब्याज दरों कि have risen 1 प्रतिशत पाइंट  are said to have increased by 100 basis points .
The British Royal Family is the group of close  रिश्तेदारों  of the monarch of the United Kingdom .
The term is also commonly  लागू  to the same group of people who are the relations of the monarch in her or his role as sovereign of any of the other Commonwealth realms , thus sometimes at variance with official national terms for the family .
Members of the Royal Family   belong to , either by birth or marriage , the House of Windsor , since 1917 , when George V changed the name of the royal house from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha .
This decision was primarily taken because  ब्रिटेन और उसके साम्राज्य  were at war with Germany and given the British Royal Family 's strong German ancestry ; it was felt that its public image could be improved by choosing a more British house name .
The new name chosen , Windsor , had absolutely no connection other than as the name of the castle which was and   continues to be a royal residence .
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal Family , and different lists will include different people , those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ) , or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered members , which usually results in the application of the term to the monarch , the consort of the monarch , the widowed consorts of previous monarchs , the children of the monarch and previous monarchs , the male-line grandchildren of the monarch and previous monarchs , and the spouses and the  widows of a monarch 's और पिछला monarch 's बेटे और male-line पोते  .
On 30 November 1917   , King George V issued Letters Patent defining who are members of the Royal Family ; the text of the notice from the London Gazette is as follows:
In 1996 , Her Majesty The Queen modified these Letters Patent , as was evidenced by this Notice from the   London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title and a style borne by members of the Royal Family to additional  persons to be  born , evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
Members and relatives of the British Royal Family historically represented the monarch  in  various places throughout the British Empire , sometimes for extended periods as viceroys , or for specific ceremonies or events .
Today , they often perform ceremonial and social  कर्तव्य throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम  and abroad on behalf of the United Kingdom .
Aside from the monarch , their only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve , if eligible and when appointed by letters  patent , as a Counsellor of State , two or more of  whom exercise the authority of the Crown ( within stipulated limits ) in the indisposal or absence from the British realm of the monarch .
In the other realms of the Commonwealth royalty do not serve as Counsellors  of राज्य .
However in each  such  realm the monarch 's family members may act on behalf of , are funded by , and represent the sovereign of that particular state , and not the United Kingdom .
The Queen , her  consort , उसके children और grandchildren  , as well as all former sovereigns ' children and grandchildren hold places in the first sections of the official orders of precedence in England and Wales , Scotland , and Northern Ireland .
Wives of the said enjoy their husbands ' precedence , and husbands of princesses are unofficially but habitually  लगाई  with their wives as well .
However  , the Queen changed the private order of  precedence in the Royal Family in favour of Princesses Anne and Alexandra , who henceforth take private precedence over the Duchess of Cornwall , who is otherwise the realm 's highest ranking woman after the Queen herself .
She did not alter the relative precedence of other born-princesses ,  ऐसे as the  daughters of her younger sons .
Haiti ( ; Haitian Creole Ayiti ) , officially the Republic of Haiti ( ;  ) ,  is a Caribbean country .
it occupies the पश्चिमी , छोटी  portion of the island of Hispaniola , in the Greater Antillean archipelago , which it shares with the Dominican Republic .
Ayiti ( land of high mountains ) was the  स्वदेशी  Taíno or Amerindian name for the island .
The country 's highest point is  pic  la Selle , at .
The total  क्षेत्रफल of हैती is  and its capital is Port-au-Prince .
Haitian Creole and French are the  आधिकारिक  languages .
Haiti 's regional ,  ऐतिहासिक , और  ethno-linguistic position is unique for several reasons .
It was the first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean , the first black -led republic in the world , and the second  republic in the Americas when it  gained independence in 1804 as part of a successful slave revolution lasting nearly a decade .
In 2012 , Haiti announced its  intention  to seek associate membership status in the African Union .
Haiti is the most populous of  the predominantly  Francophone independent nations in the Americas .
It is one of only two independent nations in the Americas ( along with Canada ) to  designate फ्रेंच as an आधिकारिक  language ; the other French-speaking areas are all overseas départements , or collectivités , of France .
हैती is the  most populous full member-state of the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) .
It is the poorest country in the Americas as  measured  by the Human Development Index .
Political violence has occurred regularly   throughout its history , leading to government instability .
Most recently  , in फ़रवरी  2004 , a coup d'état originating in the north of the country forced the resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
A provisional government took control with security provided by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in   Haiti ( MINUSTAH ) .
Michel Martelly , the current president , was elected in the Haitian  सामान्य चुनाव  , 2011 .
The island has had a history   of destructive earthquakes .
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck Haiti on  12  January 2010 and devastated Port-au-Prince .
The highest reliable death count was  अनुमानित  at 220,000 .
Haitian  सरकारी  estimates were higher .
The Presidential palace , Parliament and many other important structures were destroyed , along with countless homes and businesses , leaving  सैंकड़ों of हज़ारों of लोगों बेघर  .
The country has yet to recover from the 2010 earthquake ( and subsequent incidents ) due to both the severity of the damage Haiti endured in 2010 , as well as a government  that  was ineffective well before the earthquake .
United States aid organizations have donated $ 2  अरब  .
Combined  साथ  other international donations , these funds are intended to contribute to the rebuilding of the country .
The Bloody Beetroots is  the  pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo , the Italian electro house and dance-punk music producer , DJ and photographer .
The Bloody Beetroots is well-known for the black Venom mask he wears during  प्रदर्शन  .
In fact , the only identifying   public feature of Rifo is the year `` 1977 '' tattooed across his chest , which is both the year that the producer and punk-rock was born .
`` the खूनी beetroots dj नियत '' contains सर bob कॉर्नेलियस rifo और टॉमी चाय .
A  मोटोरोला  Advisor alphanumeric pager used in Brazil in the 1990s , operated by Teletrim
A pager is a wireless telecommunications device that receives and displays numeric or text messages , or receives and announces voice  संदेश  .
One-way pagers can only receive messages , while response  pagers and  two-way pagers can also acknowledge , reply to , and originate messages using an internal transmitter .
Pagers operate as part of a paging system which includes one  or अधिक फिक्स्ड ट्रांसमीटरों  ( or in the case of response pagers and two-way pagers , one or more base stations ) , as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users .
These systems can range from a restaurant system with a single low-power transmitter , to a nationwide  प्रणाली साथ हज़ारों  of high-power base stations .
One of the first practical paging services was  शुभारम्भ  in 1950 for physicians in the New York City area .
Physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the service and carried a ( 6 oz ) pager that would receive phone messages within ( 25 mi ) of a  single  transmitter tower .
The system   was manufactured by the Reevesound Company and operated by Telanswerphone .
In 1960 , John Francis  Mitchell combined elements of  Motorola 's Walkie Talkie and automobile radio technologies to create the first transistorized pager , and from this point , paging technology continued to advance , and pager adoption continued to expand , until the early 1990s .
However , by the mid-1990s , as cellular technologies became cheaper and more widely  उपलब्धियाँ  , advanced services began to displace paging as a commercial product .
Today , pagers exist largely as niche products , finding preferential use in applications such as hospitals , public safety ,  and retail  locations where their simplicity , high reliability , and low cost represent significant advantages .
Reevesville is a town in Dorchester County , South Carolina , United   States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  196 at the 2010 census .
as पारिभाषित by the u.S. दफ्तर of प्रबन्धन और बजट , और प्रयुक्त by the u.S. जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो लिये सांख्यिकीय उद्देश्य तभी , reevesville is शामिल भीतर the charleston-north charleston-summerville महानगर क्षेत्रफल .
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; July 6 , 1907 – July 13 , 1954 ) was a Mexican  चित्रकार , born  in Coyoacán , who is best known for her self-portraits .
Kahlo 's life began and ended in Mexico  नगर , in उसके घर  known as the Blue House .
वो दिया उसके जनम तिथि as जुलाई 7 , 1910 , लकिन उसके जनम प्रमाणपत्र shows जुलाई 6 , 1907  .
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of  उसके  birth to coincide with the year of the beginning of the Mexican revolution so that her life would begin with the birth of modern Mexico .
Her work has been celebrated in Mexico as emblematic of national and indigenous tradition , and by feminists for its uncompromising depiction of the female   experience and form .
Mexican culture and Amerindian cultural tradition are important in her work , which has been sometimes characterized as  naïve  art or folk art .
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '' , and in 1938 André Breton , principal initiator of the surrealist   movement , described Kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb '' .
Kahlo had a  volatile  marriage with the famous Mexican artist Diego Rivera .
She  suffered  lifelong health problems .
Many of her health problems were the result of a traffic accident she  बच  as a teenager .
recovering  from her injuries isolated her from other people and this isolation influenced her works , many of which are self-portraits of one sort or another .
Kahlo suggested , `` I  paint  myself because I am so often alone and because I am the subject I know best . ''
She also stated , `` I was born a  कुतिया  .
I was born a  चित्रकार  . ''
300px
Theresienwiese on  the  day before Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a  16-day पर्व celebrating  beer held annually in Munich , Bavaria , Germany , running from late September to the first weekend in October .
It is one of the most famous events in Germany and is the world 's largest fair , with more than 6 million people from  around the संसार उपस्थित  the event every year .
To the locals , it is not called Oktoberfest , but `` die Wiesn '' , after the  colloquial नाम of the fairgrounds themselves  .
The Oktoberfest is  an  important part of Bavarian culture , having been held since 1810 .
Other cities across the world also hold Oktoberfest  जश्न , modeled बाद the असली  Munich event .
The Munich  oktoberfest  originally took place during the sixteen days up to , and including , the first Sunday in October .
In 1994 , the schedule was modified in response to German reunification so that if the first Sunday in October falls on the 1st or 2nd , then the festival would go on until  अक्तूबर 3 ( जर्मनी  Unity Day ) .
Thus , the festival is now 17 days when the first Sunday is October 2 and 18  दिनों  when it is October 1 .
In 2010 , the festival lasted until the  first Monday  in October , to mark the anniversary of the event .
The festival is held in an area named the Theresienwiese ( field , or meadow , of Therese ) , often called Wiesn  लिये छोटी  , located near Munich 's center .
Large  quantities  of Oktoberfest Beer are consumed , with almost 7 million liters served during the 16 day festival in 2007 .
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl ( chicken ) , Schweinebraten ( roast pork ) , Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock ) , Steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a stick ) , Würstl ( sausages ) along with Brezeln ( Pretzel ) , Knödel ( potato or bread dumplings ) , Käsespätzle ( cheese noodles ) , Reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes ) ,  sauerkraut or rotkohl/blaukraut ( रेड गोभी  ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ) .
A platter with  चीज और  garnishes
Wheels  of gouda
Cheese is a generic term for a diverse group of milk-based food  उत्पाद  .
Cheese is produced in wide-ranging flavors ,  बनावट  , and forms .
Cheese consists of proteins and fat from milk , usually the milk of cows ,  भैंस ,  goats , or sheep .
It is produced by coagulation of the milk  protein  casein .
Typically   , the milk is acidified and addition of the enzyme rennet causes coagulation .
The solids are separated and pressed into  फाइनल  form .
Some cheeses have molds on the rind or  throughout  .
Most cheeses melt at cooking temperature  .
Hundreds of types of cheese from various countries are  उत्पादित  .
Their styles , textures and flavors depend on the origin of the milk ( including the animal 's diet ) , whether they have been pasteurized , the butterfat  सामग्री , the जीवाणु और मोल्ड  , the processing , and aging .
Herbs  ,  spices , or wood smoke may be used as flavoring agents .
The yellow to red  रंग of  many cheeses , such as Red Leicester , is normally formed from adding annatto .
For a few cheeses , the milk is curdled by adding   acids such as vinegar or lemon juice .
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria , which turn milk sugars into lactic acid , then the addition of  rennet  completes the curdling .
Vegetarian alternatives to rennet are available ; most are produced by fermentation of the fungus Mucor miehei , but others have been extracted from various species  of the  Cynara thistle family .
Cheese is valued for its  पोर्टेबिलिटी , long जीवन  , and high content of fat , protein , calcium , and phosphorus .
Cheese is more compact and has a longer shelf life than milk , although how long a cheese will keep may depend on the type of cheese ; labels on packets of cheese often claim  कि a चीज चाहिए  be consumed within three to five days of opening .
Generally speaking , hard cheeses last longer than soft cheeses , such as Brie or goat 's milk  चीज  .
cheesemakers निकट a दुग्ध प्रदेश may लाभ इससे fresher , lower-priced मिल्क , और निम्नतर शिपिंग लागत .
The long   storage life of some cheese , especially if it is encased in a protective rind , allows selling when markets are favorable .
Additional ingredients may be added to some cheeses ,  ऐसे as  black peppers , garlic , chives or cranberries .
A specialist seller of cheese  is  sometimes known as a cheesemonger .
To become an expert in this field , like wine or  कुकिंग , requires कुछ  formal education and years of tasting and hands-on experience .
This position is typically responsible for all aspects of  the चीज  inventory ; selecting the cheese menu , purchasing , receiving , storage , and ripening .
Legal citation signals are a set of brief abbreviated phrases or words used to clarify the authority  or  significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition .
Signals help a reader quickly discern meaning or usefulness of a particular reference when the reference itself does not provide   adequate information .
Most citation signals are placed in  front of the  citation to which they apply .
For example , in the paragraph When writing a legal  तर्क , it is  important to refer to primary sources .
To assist  पाठक in  locating these sources , it is desirable to use a standardized citation format .
See generally Harvard Law Review Association , The Bluebook : A Uniform System  of  Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) .
Note , however , that some courts may require any legal papers that are submitted to them to  conform to  a different citation format .
the signal is the phrase `` see generally , '' which indicates that the citation `` The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) '' provides general background  सूचना on the टॉपिक  .
Neil Alden Armstrong ( August 5 , 1930 – August 25 , 2012 ) was an American astronaut and the first person to  चलना on  the Moon .
He was also an aerospace engineer ,   naval aviator , test pilot , and university professor .
Before becoming  an astronaut  , Armstrong was an officer in the U.S. Navy and served in the Korean War .
After the war  , he earned his bachelor 's  degree at Purdue University and served as a test pilot at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics High-Speed Flight Station , now known as the Dryden Flight Research Center , where he logged over 900 flights .
He later completed  ग्रैजुएट अध्ययन  at the University of Southern California .
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in Space Soonest and X-20 Dyna-Soar human spaceflight programs , Armstrong joined the NASA   Astronaut Corps in 1962 .
He made his first space flight , as command pilot of Gemini 8 , in 1966 , becoming NASA 's first civilian  astronaut to  fly in space .
On this mission , he performed the first   docking of two spacecraft , with pilot David Scott .
Armstrong 's second and last spaceflight was as mission commander of  the  Apollo 11 moon landing , in July 1969 .
On this mission , Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar  सतह और खर्च दो और a  half hours exploring , while Michael Collins remained in lunar orbit in the Command Module .
Along with Collins and Aldrin , Armstrong was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Richard  निक्सन ; in 1978 , अध्यक्ष  Jimmy Carter presented Armstrong the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in 1978 ; he and his former crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009 .
Armstrong died in Cincinnati , Ohio , on August 25 , 2012 , at the age of 82 , after complications  इससे कोरोनरी धमनी  bypass surgery .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970 – October 4 , 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred  racehorse कि in 1973 became  the first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years .
He set race records in all three events in   the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ) , the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ) , and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today .
He is considered to be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds  of  all time .
In  1999 , ईएसपीएन क्रमित  Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th century , the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http .
He ranked second behind  Man o ' War in  The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century .
Secretariat was sired by Bold Ruler out of Somethingroyal , by   Princequillo .
He was  foaled  at The Meadow in Caroline County , Virginia .
Like his famous   predecessor Man o ' War , Secretariat was a large chestnut colt and was given the same nickname , `` Big Red . ''
Secretariat 's  grandsire  , Nasrullah , is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery , he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte , along with  प्रशिक्षु jockey पॉल फेलिसियानो  ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered colors and his groom  थी एडी स्वेद  .
Secretariat stood approximately tall ,   and weighed , with a 75-inch girth , in his racing prime .
Madrid ( , ) is the   capital and largest city of Spain .
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire  जनसांख्यिकी of the  Madrid metropolitan area is calculated to be around 6.5 million .
It is the third-largest city in the European Union , after London and Berlin , and its metropolitan  area is the third-largest in the  European Union after London and Paris .
The  नगर  spans a total of .
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the country and the Community of Madrid ( which comprises the city of Madrid , its conurbation and extended suburbs and villages  ) ; this  community is bordered by the autonomous communities of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha .
As the capital city of Spain , seat of government , and residence of the  स्पेनी  monarch , Madrid is also the political , economic and cultural centre of Spain .
The  वर्तमान महापौर  is Ana Botella from the People 's Party ( PP ) .
the मैड्रिड शहरी agglomeration  has the third-largest GDP in the European Union and its influences in politics , education , entertainment , environment , media , fashion , science , culture , and the arts all contribute to its status as one of the world 's major global cities .
Due to its economic output , high standard of living  , और मार्केट आकार  , Madrid is considered the major financial centre of Southern Europe and the Iberian Peninsula ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies , such as Telefónica , Iberia or Repsol .
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain , the fourth-most touristic of the continent  , और the  seventh most visited city in the world according to Forbes .
Is the 10th most livable city in the world according  to Monocle  magazine , in its 2010 index .
Madrid also ranks among the 12 greenest European cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html  ''  > Madrid is currently a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics .
Madrid houses the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO ) , belonging to the United Nations Organization ( UN ) , the SEGIB , the  संगठन of  Ibero-American States ( OEI ) , and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ) .
It also hosts major international institutions regulators of Spanish : the Standing Committee of the Association of Spanish Language Academies , headquarters of the Royal Spanish Academy ( RAE ) , the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent  स्पेनी ( fundéu ) .
मैड्रिड organizes  fairs as FITUR , ARCO , SIMO TCI and the Cibeles Madrid Fashion Week .
While Madrid possesses a modern infrastructure , it has preserved  the look  and feel of many of its historic neighbourhoods and streets .
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park , founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century National Library building ( founded in 1712 ) containing some of  स्पेन 's ऐतिहासिक अभिलेख  ; a large number of National museums , and the Golden Triangle of Art , located along the Paseo del Prado and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum , the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía , a museum of modern art , and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum , which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums .
Cibeles Palace and Fountain have   become the monument symbol of the city .
The  पाथ  of the Via Appia and of the Via Appia Traiana .
Remains of the Appian Way  in रोम ,  near Quarto Miglio
निकट  Rome .
The Appian Way ( Latin and Italian : Via Appia ) was one of the earliest and strategically most important  रोमन सड़कें of the प्राचीन  republic .
It  कनेक्ट  Rome to Brindisi , Apulia , in southeast Italy .
Its importance is indicated by its common name , recorded  by  Statius :
Appia teritur regina longarum  viarum
`` the Appian way is  the  queen of the long roads ''
The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus , the Roman censor who began and completed the first section as a military road to the south in  312 bc  during the Samnite Wars .
The Draupner wave , a single giant wave measured on New Year  's  Day 1995 , finally confirmed the existence of freak waves , which had previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves , monster waves , killer waves , extreme waves ,  और असामान्य लहरें  ) are relatively large and spontaneous ocean surface waves that occur far out at sea , and are a threat even to large ships and ocean liners .
In  oceanography  , they are more precisely defined as waves whose height is more than twice the significant wave height ( SWH ) , which is itself defined as the mean of the largest third of waves in a wave record .
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest waves found at sea ; they are , rather , surprisingly large  लहरें  for a given sea state .
Rogue waves seem not to have a single distinct cause , but occur where physical factors such as high winds and strong currents cause waves to merge to  बनाएँ a सिंगल  exceptionally large wave .
Electress Sophia   of Hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The line of succession to the British throne is  the  ordered sequence of all those people eligible to succeed to the throne of the United Kingdom and the other 15 Commonwealth realms .
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed succession on the Electress  sophia of हनोवर और उसके वंशजों  while excluding Roman Catholics .
The British government does not publish an official list of all those in line to succeed , but the work of genealogical  लेखक और amateur शोधकर्ताओं  suggests that there are several thousand people potentially in line .
At a summit in  पर्थ , पश्चिमी ऑस्ट्रेलिया in 2011 , the heads of सरकारी of सब 16 राष्ट्रमंडल realms सहमत to लो कदम to अपनाना निरपेक्ष primogeniture , समाप्त the exclusion of लोगों शादीशुदा to रोमन catholics , और मेक अन्य परिवर्तन in the उत्तराधिकार नियम .
The line of succession is also used to select the Counsellors of State  ( and a  regent if the need arises ) under the provisions of the Regency Act 1937 .
For earlier versions of the line of succession , see  इतिहास  of the British line of succession .
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17 , 1920July 23 , 1966 ) was an American film and stage actor The New York Times’ obituary noted his portrayal  of ``  moody , sensitive young men '' .
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber in George Stevens 's A Place in the Sun  , the anguished Catholic priest in Hitchcock  's I Confess , the doomed regular soldier Robert E. Lee Prewitt in Fred Zinnemann 's From Here to Eternity , and the Jewish GI bullied by antisemites in Edward Dmytryk 's The Young Lions .
Later , after a disfiguring car crash in 1956 , and alcohol and prescription   drug abuse , he became erratic .
Nevertheless important roles were still his , including `` the reckless , alcoholic , mother-fixated rodeo performer '' in John Huston 's The Misfits , the title role in Huston 's , and the concentration camp  victim in Stanley Kramer  's Judgment at Nuremberg . ''
Clift received  चार अकादमी  Award nominations during his career , three for Best Actor and one for Best Supporting Actor .
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a term commonly applied to an international military campaign which  प्रारंभ as  a result of the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States .
This resulted in an international military campaign to eliminate al-Qaeda and other  उग्रवादी संगठन .
The United Kingdom and many  other NATO  and non-NATO nations participate in the conflict .
The phrase 'War on Terror ' was first used by US  अध्यक्ष जार्ज  W. Bush on 20 September 2001 .
The Bush administration and the Western media have since used the term to signify a global military , political , lawful , and conceptual   struggle—targeting both organizations designated as terrorist and regimes accused of supporting them .
It was typically  used  with a particular focus on militant Islamists , al-Qaeda , and other jihadi groups .
Although the term is not officially used by the  प्रशासन  of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas Contingency Operation ) , it is still commonly used by politicians , in the media and by some aspects of government officially , such as the United States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal .
German battleship Schleswig-Holstein , Westerplatte , September 1  ,  1939
Destroyer USS Shaw exploding after her forward   magazine was detonated during the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of World  युद्ध ii यहूद nationalistic  issues , unresolved issues , and resentments resulting from World War I and the interwar period in Europe , in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s .
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of war are generally understood to be the 1939 invasion of Poland by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of  चीन by the साम्राज्य of जापानी  .
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made by the authoritarian ruling Nazi elite in Germany  और  by the leadership of the Kwantung Army in Japan .
World War II started after these aggressive actions were met with an official declaration of war  and/or हथियारबंद प्रतिरोध  .
The following is a list of gods and other divine and semi-divine figures from Greek  mythology .
The list does not include creatures ; for these , see   List of Greek mythological creatures .
The  मित्सुबिशी galant  is an automobile manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors between 1969 and 2012 .
The name was derived from the French word  galant , अर्थ  `` chivalrous '' .
There have  महरूम  nine distinct generations , and cumulative sales now exceed five million .
It began as a compact sedan , but over the course of its life has evolved into a larger mid-size   car .
Initial production was only based in Japan , but since 1994 the American market  रै महरूम परोसा by वाहनों समवेत  at the former Diamond-Star Motors ( DSM ) facility in Normal , Illinois .
Blood pressure ( BP ) , sometimes referred to as  arterial रक्त दबाव  , is the pressure exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels , and is one of the principal vital signs .
When used without further specification , `` blood  दबाव  '' usually refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic circulation .
During each heartbeat , blood pressure  varies  between a maximum ( systolic ) and a minimum ( diastolic ) pressure .
The blood pressure in the circulation is principally  due  to the pumping action of the heart .
मतभेद in  mean blood pressure are responsible for blood flow from one location to another in the circulation .
The rate of mean blood flow depends on the resistance  to  flow presented by the blood vessels .
Mean  रक्त दबाव decreases  as the circulating blood moves away from the heart through arteries and capillaries due to viscous losses of energy .
Mean blood pressure  बूंदें over the पूरे परिसंचरण  , although most of the fall occurs along the small arteries and arterioles .
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces  ( e.g. , during standing  ) and valves in veins , breathing , and pumping from contraction of skeletal muscles also influence blood pressure in veins .
Blood pressure without further specification usually refers to the systemic arterial pressure measured at a person 's upper arm and is  a माप of the दबाव  in the brachial artery , the major artery in the upper arm .
A person’s blood pressure is usually expressed in terms of the systolic pressure over diastolic pressure and is measured in  millimetres  of mercury ( mmHg ) , for example 120/80 .
A veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the power ( used by an   officer of the state , for example ) to unilaterally stop an official action , especially the enactment of legislation .
A veto can be absolute , as for instance in the United Nations Security Council , whose permanent members ( China ,  फ़्रांस , रूस , संयुक्त किंगडम  , United States of America ) can block any resolution .
Or it can be limited , as in the legislative process of the United States  , जहाँ a two-thirds vote  in both the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation .
A veto only gives power to stop changes , not to adopt them ( except for the rare `` amendatory veto ''   ) .
Thus a veto allows its holder to protect the  औकात  quo .
The concept of a veto body originated with the Roman  consuls  and tribunes .
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could block a military or civil decision by the other   ; any tribune had the power to unilaterally block legislation passed by the Roman Senate .
Sulfur dioxide ( also sulphur dioxide ) is the  रासायनिक यौगिक साथ  the formula .
It is a toxic gas with a pungent , irritating smell , that is released by volcanoes and in  विभिन्न  industrial processes .
Since coal and  पेट्रोलियम  often contain sulfur compounds , their combustion generates sulfur dioxide unless the sulfur compounds are removed before burning the fuel .
further ऑक्सीकरण of so2 , प्रायः in the उपस्थिति of a उत्प्रेरक ऐसे as no2 , फ़ॉर्म h2so4 , और यूँ एसिड बरसात  .
Sulfur  डाइऑक्साइड  emissions are also a precursor to particulates in the atmosphere .
Both of these  impacts  are cause for concern over the environmental impact of these fuels .
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '' , `` weakness '' , and `` serious '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an autoimmune  neuromuscular  disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatigability .
It is an autoimmune disorder , in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine receptors at the  postsynaptic neuromuscular जंक्शन , inhibiting the excitatory प्रभाव of the neurotransmitter  acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions .
Myasthenia is treated medically with  acetylcholinesterase  inhibitors or immunosuppressants , and , in selected cases , thymectomy .
The disease incidence is 3–30 cases per million  प्रति साल और  rising as a result of increased awareness .
MG must be distinguished  from  congenital myasthenic syndromes that can present similar symptoms but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments .
Reflective twisted nematic liquid crystal  प्रदर्शक  .
Polarizing filter film with a vertical axis to  polarize लाइट  as it enters .
Glass substrate with  ito  electrodes .
The shapes of these electrodes will determine the shapes that will appear when  the एलसीडी  is turned ON .
Vertical  ridges  etched on the surface are smooth .
Twisted nematic  द्रव  crystal .
Glass substrate with common electrode film ( ITO ) with horizontal  ridges to  line up with the horizontal filter .
Polarizing filter film with a horizontal  अक्ष  to block/pass light .
Reflective surface to send light back to  दर्शक  .
( In a  backlit  LCD , this layer is replaced with a light source . )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD ) is a flat panel display , electronic visual display  , or video  display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals .
द्रव  crystals do not emit light directly .
LCDs are available to display arbitrary images ( as in a general-purpose computer display ) or fixed images which can be displayed or hidden , such as preset words , digits , and  7-segment प्रदर्शक as  in a digital clock .
They use the same basic technology , except that arbitrary images are made up of a large number  of small pixels  , while other displays have larger elements .
LCDs are used in a wide range of applications   including computer monitors , televisions , instrument panels , aircraft cockpit displays , and signage .
They are common in consumer devices such as video players , gaming devices , clocks , watches , calculators , and telephones , and  have replaced  cathode ray tube ( CRT ) displays in most applications .
They are available in a wider range of screen sizes   than CRT and plasma displays , and since they do not use phosphors , they do not suffer image burn-in .
lcds हैं , however , susceptible to चित्र हठ .
The LCD screen is more  energy  efficient and can be disposed of more safely than a CRT .
Its low electrical  शक्ति खपत  enables it to be used in battery -powered electronic equipment .
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any number of segments filled with   liquid crystals and arrayed in front of a light source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome .
Liquid crystals  यहूद  first discovered in 1888 .
by 2008 , विश्वव्यापी बिक्री of टेलीविज़न साथ एलसीडी screens exceeded सालाना बिक्री of crt इकाई ; the crt became obsolete लिये सबसे उद्देश्य .
The Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa is a luxury hotel , casino , and spa in Atlantic City , New Jersey ,   United States .
It is owned by Marina District Development , a joint venture between Boyd Gaming and a divesture trust established by  mgm  Resorts International .
The $ 1.1 billion casino hotel features 2,002 rooms  and  is the largest hotel in New Jersey .
The Borgata opened in July 2003 as a Las Vegas-style megaresort and is the  top-grossing  casino in Atlantic City .
A bottle of high potency  b-complex विटामिन संपूरक  pills .
A vitamin  ( or ) is  an organic compound required by an organism as a vital nutrient in limited amounts .
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities   by an organism , and must be obtained from the diet .
Thus  ,  the term is conditional both on the circumstances and on the particular organism .
For example , ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for humans , but not for most other animals , and biotin and vitamin D are  जरूरी in the इंसान आहार तभी  in certain circumstances .
By convention , the term vitamin includes neither other essential nutrients  , such as dietary minerals , essential fatty acids , or  essential amino acids ( which are needed in larger amounts than vitamins ) nor the large number of other nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required less often .
Thirteen  विटामिन हैं universally  recognized at present .
Vitamins are classified by their biological and chemical  कार्यकलाप  , not their structure .
Thus , each `` vitamin '' refers  to a  number of vitamer compounds that all show the biological activity associated with a particular vitamin .
Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an  alphabetized विटामिन ``  generic descriptor '' title , such as `` vitamin A `` , which includes the compounds retinal , retinol , and four known carotenoids .
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of the  vitamin  in the body , and are sometimes inter-convertible to one another , as well .
विटामिन  have diverse biochemical functions .
कुछ have hormone-like कृत्यों as regulators of खनिज चयापचय ( ऐसे as विटामिन d ) , or regulators of कोशिका और ऊतक विकास और differentiation ( ऐसे as कुछ फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन a ) .
Others function as antioxidants ( e.g. , vitamin E and  sometimes विटामिन c  ) .
The largest number of vitamins ( such as B complex vitamins ) function as precursors for enzyme cofactors , that help enzymes  in  their work as catalysts in metabolism .
In  इस भूमिका , विटामिन may be tightly बंधी to एंजाइमों as भाग of prosthetic समूह : लिये उदाहरण , biotin is भाग of एंजाइमों शामिल in बनाना वसीय acids .
Vitamins may also be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes , detachable molecules that  function  to carry chemical groups or electrons between molecules .
For example , folic acid may carry methyl , formyl ,  और  methylene groups in the cell .
Although   these roles in assisting enzyme-substrate reactions are vitamins ' best-known function , the other vitamin functions are equally important .
Until the mid-1930s , when the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B   complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold , vitamins were obtained solely through food intake , and changes in diet ( which , for example , could occur during a particular growing season ) usually greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested .
However , vitamins have been produced as commodity chemicals and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and food supplements and  एडिटिव , चूंकि the मध्य  of the 20th century .
World Muslim population by percentage   ( Pew Research Center , 2009 )
World  मुस्लिम  population in millions
Islam is the  संसार  's second largest religion after Christianity .
According to a 2010 study , Islam has 1.62   billion adherents , making up over 23 % of the world population .
Islam is the predominant religion in the Middle East ,  in  Sahel , in the Horn of Africa and northern Africa , and in some parts of Asia .
Large  समुदायों of मुसलमान  are also found in China , the Balkans , and Russia .
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe , for instance , Islam is  the  second largest religion after Christianity , where it represents 6 % of the total population .
According  to the  Pew Research Center in 2010 there were 49 Muslim-majority countries .
Around 62 % of the world 's Muslims  सजीव in दक्षिण  and Southeast Asia , with over 1 billion adherents .
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia , home to 12.7 % of the world 's  मुसलमान , followed by पाकिस्तानी  ( 11.0 % ) , India ( 10.9 % ) , and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ) .
About 20 % of Muslims  सजीव in अरब देशों  .
In the Middle East , the non-Arab countries of Turkey and Iran  हैं  the largest Muslim-majority countries ; in Africa , Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities .
A study conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 and released January 2011  मिला कि वहीँ हैं 1.62  billion Muslims around the world .
The study found  अधिक मुसलमान  in the United Kingdom than in Lebanon and more in China than in Syria .
Rhode Island ( or ) , officially the  राज्य of  Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , is a state in the New England region of the United States .
Rhode Island is the smallest in area , the eighth least populous , but the second most  densely आबादी  of the 50 US states behind New Jersey .
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and Massachusetts to the   north and east , and it shares a water boundary with New York 's Long Island to the southwest .
Rhode Island was the first of the 13 original colonies to declare independence  from  British rule , declaring itself independent on May 4 , 1776 , two months before any other colony .
The State was also the last of the thirteen original colonies to ratify the United States   Constitution .
Rhode  द्वीप 's आधिकारिक उपनाम is `` the समंदर राज्य  '' , a reference to the State 's geography , since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to about 14 % of its total area .
इसके जमीन क्षेत्रफल  is , but its total area is significantly larger .
दुबई ( ; ' , ) is a नगर in the संयुक्त अरब अमीरात , स्तिथ भीतर the अमीर of the वही  name .
The emirate of Dubai is  स्तिथ  on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf on the Arabian Peninsula and is one of the seven emirates that make up the country .
it रै the largest जनसांख्यिकी in the uae ( 2,106,177 ) और the second-largest जमीन territory by क्षेत्रफल ( 4,114 km2 ) बाद abu धाबी .
Dubai  and Abu  Dhabi , the national capital , are the only two emirates to have veto power over critical matters of national importance in the country 's legislature .
The  नगर of दुबई is स्तिथ on the अमीर 's उत्तरी तटरेखा और heads up the dubai-sharjah-ajman महानगर क्षेत्रफल .
Dubai is nowadays often misperceived as a country or city-state and , in some cases , the UAE as a whole has been described  as 'dubai  ' .
the earliest जिक्र of दुबई is in 1095 ad , और the earliest अंकित उपनिवेश in the प्रदेश तिथियाँ इससे 1799  .
the sheikhdom of दुबई थी formally स्थापित in 1833 by शेख़ maktoum बिन butti al-maktoum जब he persuaded around 800 सदस्यों of उसके जनजाति of the bani yas , जीना in कया थी तब the दूसरी सऊदी राज्य और अभी भाग of सऊदी अरब , to follow उसे to the दुबई क्रीक  by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas .
It remained under the tribe 's control when the United Kingdom assumed protection of the Sheikhdom  in 1892 and joined the nascent United Arab Emirates  upon independence in 1971 as the country 's second emirate .
Its strategic  geographic  location made the town an important trading hub and by the beginning of the 20th century , Dubai was already an important regional port .
Today , Dubai has  उभरा as a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन metropolis कि रै grown steadily to become a वैश्विक नगर और a कारोबार और सांस्कृतिक हब of the मध्य ईस्ट और the पारसी गल्फ प्रदेश .
Although Dubai 's economy was  historically  built on the oil industry , the emirate 's Western-style model of business drives its economy with the main revenues now coming from tourism , real estate , and financial services .
Dubai has recently attracted world attention through many  अभिनव विशाल  construction projects and sports events .
The city has become symbolic for its skyscrapers and high-rise buildings , such as the world 's tallest Burj Khalifa , in addition  to महत्वाकांक्षी विकास प्रोजेक्ट सहित man-made  islands , hotels , and some of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world .
This   increased attention has also highlighted labor and human rights issues concerning the city 's largely South Asian paid workforce .
Dubai 's property market experienced a major deterioration in 2008–2009 as a result of the worldwide economic  downturn following  the financial crisis of 2007-2008 .
However , Dubai has made a steady and gradual  recovery  with help coming from neighboring emirates .
The handful of new  प्रोजेक्ट  that are in the pipeline have been able to help Dubai real estate make a comeback .
As of 2012  , Dubai is the  22nd most expensive city in the world , and the most expensive city in the Middle East , surpassing Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ) .
Dubai has also been rated as one of the best places to live in the Middle East , including by US American global consulting firm Mercer who rated the city as the   best place to live in the Middle East in 2011 .
The following is a list of colleges and  विश्वविद्यालयों  in the U.S. state of Illinois .
Surface of the Atlantic ocean meeting the Earth 's  ग्रहीय  boundary layer and troposphere .
लहरें  on an ocean coast .
This animation uses Earth science data from a variety of sensors on NASA Earth observing satellites to measure physical oceanography parameters such as ocean currents ,  समंदर हवाएँ , समुद्र सतह ऊँचाई और समुद्र  surface temperature .
An ocean ( ; the World Ocean of classical antiquity ) is a body of saline water  that  composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere .
In the context of Earth , it refers to one or all of the major divisions of the planet 's World Ocean – they are , in descending order of area , the Pacific , Atlantic , Indian , Southern ( Antarctic  ) , और आर्कटिक  Oceans .
The word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably with `` ocean '' , but strictly speaking a sea is a  देह of saline जल (  possibly a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land .
Earth  is the  only planet known to have an ocean ( or any large amounts of open liquid water ) .
लगभग 72 % of the ग्रह 's सतह ( ~3.6x108 km2 ) is covered by saline जल कि is customarily विभाजित into अनेक प्रिंसिपल महासागर और छोटी समंदर , साथ the समंदर covering लगभग  71 % of the Earth 's surface .
in शर्तें of the जलमंडल of the धरती , the समंदर contains 97 % of the धरती 's जल .
Oceanographers have stated that out of 97 % , only 5 % of the ocean as a whole  on  Earth has been explored .
Because it is the principal component of   Earth 's hydrosphere , the world ocean is integral to all known life , forms part of the carbon cycle , and influences climate and weather patterns .
The total volume is approximately 1.3 billion cubic kilometres ( 310 million cu   mi ) with an average depth of .
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species , although much of the ocean 's  गहराइयों remain  unexplored and it is estimated that over two million marine species exist .
The origin of Earth  's  oceans is still unknown , but oceans are believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have been the impetus for the emergence of life .
Extraterrestrial oceans may be composed  of a चौड़ी दायरा  of elements and compounds .
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the lakes   of Titan , although there is evidence for the existence of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System .
Early in their geologic histories   , Mars and Venus are theorized to have had large water oceans .
the मंगल समंदर परिकल्पना suggests कि nearly a तीसरा of the सतह of मंगल थी एकबार covered by जल , हालांकि the जल on मंगल is no longer oceanic , और a runaway ग्रीनहाउस प्रभाव may have boiled दूर the वैश्विक समंदर  of Venus .
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point , so that water might exist in large quantities in extraterrestrial  environments as  brine or convecting ice .
Unconfirmed oceans are speculated beneath the surface of many dwarf planets and natural satellites ; notably , the ocean of Europa  is  believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth .
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are also believed to possess liquid atmospheric layers of yet  to  be confirmed compositions .
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and exomoons , including surface oceans of liquid water within a  परितारकीय  habitable zone .
Ocean planets are a  काल्पनिक प्रकार  of planet with a surface completely covered with liquid .
Elvis Aaron Presley (  जनवरी 8 , 1935  – August 16 , 1977 ) was an American singer and actor .
a सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक , he is commonly ज्ञात by the सिंगल नाम एल्विस  .
One of the most popular musicians of the 20th  सदी , he  is often referred to as the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the King '' .
Born in   Tupelo , Mississippi , Presley moved to Memphis , Tennessee , with his family at the age of 13 .
He began his career there in  1954  , working with Sun Records owner Sam Phillips , who wanted to bring the sound of African-American music to a wider audience .
Accompanied by  guitarist  Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black , Presley was the most important popularizer of rockabilly , an uptempo , backbeat -driven fusion of country and rhythm and blues .
RCA Victor acquired his contract in a deal  arranged  by Colonel Tom Parker , who went on to manage the singer for over two decades .
Presley 's first RCA single , `` Heartbreak  Hotel  `` , released in January 1956 , was a number-one hit .
He became the leading figure of the   newly popular sound of rock and roll with a series of network television appearances and chart-topping records .
His  सक्रिय interpretations of गीतों , अनेक इससे african-american स्त्रोत , और उसके uninhibited प्रदर्शन स्टाइल बना उसे enormously popular—and विवादास्पद .
In November 1956 , he made his  film  debut in Love Me Tender .
Drafted into military service   in 1958 , Presley relaunched his recording career two years later with some of his most commercially successful work .
He staged few concerts however , and guided by Parker , proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making Hollywood movies and soundtrack albums  , सबसे of उन्हें  critically derided .
In 1968 , after  seven years  away from the stage , he returned to live performance in a celebrated comeback television special that led to an extended Las Vegas concert residency and a string of profitable tours .
In 1973 Presley staged the first concert  ब्रॉडकास्ट globally  via satellite , Aloha from Hawaii .
Prescription drug abuse  severely  deteriorated his health , and he died suddenly in 1977 at the age of 42 .
प्रेस्ली  is regarded as one of the most important figures of 20th-century popular culture .
He had a  बहुमुखी आवाज़ और  unusually wide success encompassing many genres , including country , pop ballads , gospel , and blues .
He is   the best-selling solo artist in the history of popular music .
मनोनीत लिये 14 प्रतिस्पर्धी grammys , he जीती तीन , और प्राप्त the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार at आयु 36 .
He has been inducted into multiple music halls of  कीर्ति  .
a  glass of root beer with foam
Root beer is a carbonated , sweetened beverage , originally made using   the root of a sassafras plant ( or the bark of a sassafras tree ) as the primary flavor .
Root beer ,  popularized in  North America , comes in two forms : alcoholic and soft drink .
The historical root beer was analogous to small beer in that the process   provided a drink with a very low alcohol content .
Although roots are used as the source of many soft drinks throughout the   world , often different names are used .
fluorescent  minerals emit visible light when exposed to ultraviolet light
Fluorescence is the emission of light by a  पदार्थ  that has absorbed light or other electromagnetic radiation .
It is a form of  संदीप्ति  .
In most cases , the emitted light has  a longer  wavelength , and therefore lower energy , than the absorbed radiation .
However , when the absorbed electromagnetic radiation is intense , it is possible for one electron to absorb two photons ; this two-photon absorption can lead to emission of  विकिरण  having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation .
The emitted radiation may also be of the same wavelength as the absorbed   radiation , termed `` resonance fluorescence '' .
The most striking examples of fluorescence occur when the absorbed radiation is in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum , and thus invisible to the human eye , and the emitted light is in the  दृश्य  region .
Fluorescence has  अनेक व्यावहारिक अनुप्रयोग , सहित mineralogy , gemology , रासायनिक सेंसर  ( fluorescence spectroscopy ) , fluorescent labelling , dyes , biological detectors , and , most commonly , fluorescent lamps .
Informal logic , intuitively , refers to the principles of logic and logical thought outside of a  औपचारिक सेटिंग  .
However , perhaps because of the informal in the title , the precise definition of  अनौपचारिक लॉजिक is a पदार्थ of कुछ  dispute .
Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair define informal logic as `` a branch of logic whose task is to  develop  non-formal standards , criteria , procedures for the analysis , interpretation , evaluation , criticism and construction of argumentation . ''
इस  definition reflects what had been implicit in their practice and what others were doing in their informal logic texts .
Informal logic is associated with ( informal ) fallacies , critical thinking , the Thinking Skills Movement and the  interdisciplinary  inquiry known as argumentation theory .
Frans H.  van Eemeren writes that the label  `` informal logic '' covers a `` collection of normative approaches to the study of reasoning in ordinary language that remain closer to the practice of argumentation than formal logic . ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60 , with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 )  highlighted  .
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960 , with the  years of the Great  Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression began in August of 1929 , when the United States economy first went into   an economic recession .
Although the country spent two months with declining GDP , it was not until the Wall Street Crash of October , 1929 that the effects of  a घटती  economy were felt , and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued .
The market crash marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment , poverty , low profits , deflation , plunging farm incomes , and lost opportunities for economic growth and  निजी  advancement .
Although  इसके कल्याणकारी हैं स्टिल अनिश्चित और विवादास्पद , the जाल प्रभाव थी a अचानक और सामान्य घाटा of विश्वास in the आर्थिक भविष्य .
The usual explanations include numerous factors , especially high consumer debt , ill-regulated markets that permitted overoptimistic loans by banks and investors , and the lack of high-growth new industries , all interacting to create a downward economic spiral of reduced spending  , falling confidence  , and lowered production .
Industries that suffered the most included construction , agriculture as dust-bowl conditions persisted in the agricultural heartland , shipping , mining , and logging  as well as  durable goods like automobiles and appliances that could be postponed .
The economy reached bottom in the winter of 1932–33  ;  then came four years of very rapid growth until 1937 , when the Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment .
The Depression caused major political  परिवर्तन  in America .
Three years into the depression , Herbert Hoover lost  the  1932 presidential election to Franklin Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide .
Roosevelt 's economic recovery plan , the New Deal , instituted unprecedented programs  लिये राहत  , recovery and reform , and brought about a major realignment of American politics .
The Depression also resulted in an increase of emigration of people to other  देशों लिये the  first time in American history .
For example , some  आप्रवासियों गई वापस to  their native countries , and some native US citizens went to Canada , Australia , and South Africa .
It also resulted in the mass migration of people from badly hit areas in the Great Plains and the South to places such as California and the North , respectively ( see Okies  and the  Great Migration of African Americans ) .
Racial tensions also  increased दौरान  this time .
By the 1940s  आव्रजन  had returned back to normal , and emigration declined .
A well-known  example of an  emigrant was Frank McCourt , who went to Ireland , as recounted in his book Angela 's Ashes .
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of economics and  resulted in अनेक परिवर्तन  in how the government dealt with economic downturns , such as the use of stimulus packages , Keynesian economics , and Social Security .
It also shaped modern American literature , resulting in famous novels such as John  steinbeck  's `` The Grapes of Wrath `` and `` Of Mice and Men `` .
The Great Depression of the 1930s started with the stock market crash of  अक्तूबर  1929 .
Turkey ( ) , officially the Republic of Turkey , is a transcontinental country , located mostly on Anatolia in Western Asia and on East Thrace in  southeastern यूरोपीय .
Turkey is bordered by eight countries : Bulgaria to the northwest ; Greece to the west ; Georgia to the northeast ; Armenia , Iran and the   Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast .
The Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the Aegean Sea is to the west ; and the Black Sea is to  the उत्तर  .
The Sea of Marmara , the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles ( which together form the Turkish  Straits ) demarcate  the boundary between Thrace and Anatolia ; they also separate Europe and Asia .
Turkey 's location at the crossroads of Europe and Asia  makes  it a country of significant geostrategic importance .
The country 's official language is Turkish , a Turkic  भाषा , जिससे is बोला  by approximately 85 % of the population as mother tongue .
The most numerous  जातीय समूह is  the Turks , who constitute between 70 % and 75 % of the population according to The World Factbook .
kurds हैं the largest जातीय अल्पसंख्यक और , according to the वही सोर्स , क्रमांक around 18 % of the जनसांख्यिकी जबकि अन्य जातीय अल्पसंख्यकों हैं अनुमानित to be at 7–12 % .
The vast majority of the population  is मुस्लिम  .
The area now called Turkey has been inhabited since the Paleolithic , including various  प्राचीन  Anatolian civilizations and Thracian peoples .
After  सिकंदर the ग्रेट  's conquest , the area was Hellenized , which continued with the Roman rule and the transition into the Byzantine Empire .
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century , starting the process of  turkification , जिससे थी greatly त्वरित  by the Seljuk victory over the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071 .
The Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol invasion in 1243 , upon which it disintegrated into several small   Turkish beyliks .
Starting from the late 13th century , the Ottoman beylik   united Anatolia and created an empire encompassing much of Southeastern Europe , Western Asia and North Africa .
बाद the उस्मानी साम्राज्य collapsed following इसके शिकस्त in संसार युद्ध i , भाग of it यहूद occupied by the विजयी allies .
A cadre of young military officers , led by  mustafa kemal अतातुर्क और उसके सहयोगियों  , organized a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they established the modern Republic of Turkey , with Atatürk as its first president .
Turkey is a democratic , secular , unitary , constitutional republic with a diverse cultural  विरासत  .
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the  West through membership in  organisations such as the Council of Europe , NATO , OECD , OSCE and the G-20 major economies .
Turkey began full membership negotiations with the European Union in 2005 , having   been an associate member of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU Customs Union in 1995 .
Turkey has also fostered close cultural , political and economic relations with the Middle East , Caucasus , the Turkic states of Central Asia and the African countries  through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the turkic परिषद  , Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture , Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation .
Turkey 's growing economy and diplomatic initiatives have led to its recognition as  a क्षेत्रीय  power .
Turkey is the world 's 17th  largest अर्थव्यवस्था  by nominal GDP and the 16th largest by purchasing power parity .
Caryn Elaine Johnson  ,  best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( , ( born November 13 , 1955 ) is an American comedienne , actress , singer-songwriter , political activist , author and talk show host .
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ) ,  playing celie  , a mistreated black woman in the Deep South .
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress and won her first Golden Globe  पुरस्कार  for her role in the film .
In 1990 , she played Oda Mae Brown , a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze ) save his lover (  demi मूर ) in  the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won her a second   Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2 , The Player , Made in America , How Stella  Got Her Groove Back  , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation , as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash , and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee , as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion  किंग  .
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 Emmy  पुरस्कार  for her work in television .
She was co-producer  of the  popular game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004 .
वो रै  been the moderator of the daytime talk show The View since 2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two Daytime Emmys , two Golden Globes ,  a Tony ( for  production , not acting ) , and an Oscar .
In addition , Goldberg has a British Academy Film Award , four People 's Choice  पुरस्कार  , and has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is one of the few  मनोरंजनकर्ता  who have won an Emmy , Grammy , Oscar , and Tony Award .
Augusta is a consolidated city in the U.S. state of Georgia , located at  the fall line of the Savannah  River , at the head of its navigable portion .
As of the 2010 census , the Augusta– Richmond County population was 195,844 not counting the  unconsolidated  cities of Hephzibah and Blythe .
Augusta is the principal city  of  the Augusta – Richmond County Metropolitan Statistical Area , which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877 , making it both the second-largest city and the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta .
It is the 116th-largest city in  the  United States .
Internationally , Augusta is best known   for hosting The Masters Tournament in golf each spring .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed  कॉम्पैक्ट  disc which contains data .
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc  read-only  memory `` .
कंप्यूटर  can read CD-ROMs , but can not write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly  प्रयुक्त to वितरित कंप्यूटर  software , including video games and multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
कुछ cds , पुकारा उन्नत cds , थाम दोनो कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और ऑडियो साथ the latter सक्षम of होने निभाई on a cd खिलाड़ी , जबकि आंकड़ा ( ऐसे as तन्त्र or डिजिटल वीडियो ) is तभी usable on a कंप्यूटर ( ऐसे as आईएसओ 9660 स्वरूप pc  CD-ROMs ) .
The  पीला किताब  is the technical standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
एक of a नियत of color-bound किताबे कि contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ लिये सब cd स्वरुप , the पीला किताब , निर्मित by सोनी और फिलिप्स , थी the पहला एक्सटेंशन of कॉम्पैक्ट  Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold any form  of आंकड़ा  .
The Chicago Blackhawks  (  spelled as Black Hawks before 1986 , and known colloquially as the Hawks ) are a professional ice hockey team based in Chicago , Illinois .
They are members of the Central Division of the Western Conference of the National Hockey  लीग  ( NHL ) .
They have won four Stanley  कप championships चूंकि  their founding in 1926 , most recently in 2009–10 .
The Blackhawks are one of the  असली  Six NHL teams , along with the Detroit Red Wings , Montreal Canadiens , Toronto Maple Leafs , Boston Bruins and New York Rangers .
Since the Blackhawks have played their home games at the United Center after having  खर्च  65 years playing at Chicago Stadium .
Lent celebrants  carrying  out a street procession during Holy Week .
The violet  रंग  is often associated with penance and detachment .
Similar Christian penitential practice is seen in other Catholic countries , sometimes associated with  mortification of  the flesh .
Granada   , Nicaragua .
Lent ( Latin : Quadragesima ) is a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many Christian denominations , lasting for a period of  लगभग छह सप्ताह अग्रणी  up to Easter Sunday .
In the general Latin-rite and most  पश्चिमी  denominations Lent is taken to run from Ash Wednesday to Maundy Thursday ( Holy Thursday ) morning or to Easter Eve .
In the Catholic Church , Lent lasts until Holy Thursday , while other denominations run  until Easter  Eve .
The traditional purpose of Lent is the preparation of the believer through  दुआ , penance  , repentance , almsgiving , and self-denial .
Its institutional purpose is heightened  in the annual commemoration of Holy  Week , marking the death , burial and resurrection of Jesus , which recalls the events of the Bible when Jesus is crucified on Good Friday , which then culminates in the celebration on Easter Sunday of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ .
During Lent , many of the faithful commit to fasting or giving up certain types of  luxuries as a रूप of penitence  .
The Stations of the Cross , a devotional commemoration of Christ 's carrying the Cross and of his execution  , हैं प्रायः  observed .
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches remove flowers from their altars , while crucifixes , religious statues , and other elaborate   religious symbols are often veiled in violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event .
In certain pious Catholic countries  , some  adherents mark the season with the traditional abstention from the consumption of meat .
In some countries , grand  religious  processions and cultural customs are observed , and the faithful attempt to visit seven churches during Holy Week in honor of Jesus Christ heading to Mount Calvary .
Lent is traditionally described as lasting  लिये चालीस दिनों , in commemoration of the चालीस दिनों जिससे  , according to the Gospels of Matthew , Mark and Luke , Jesus spent fasting in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry , where he endured temptation by the Devil .
However , different Christian denominations calculate  the चालीस  days of Lent differently .
In most Western traditions   the Sundays are not counted as part of Lent ; thus the period from Ash Wednesday until Easter consists of 40 days when the Sundays are excluded .
However in the Roman Catholic Church Lent is now taken to end on Holy Thursday rather than Easter  Eve ,  and hence lasts 38 days excluding Sundays , or 44 days in total .
This  इवेंट  , along with its pious customs are observed by Catholics , Lutherans , Methodists , Presbyterians , and Anglicans .
स्थान  of Chernobyl nuclear power plant
The abandoned   city of Pripyat with Chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned housing blocks   in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster ( , Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl  प्रलय ) थी a अनर्थकारी  nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ) , which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive particles into the atmosphere , which spread over much of the western  ussr और यूरोपीय  .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history , and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
the बैटल to contain the संदूषण और avert a वृहद प्रलय ultimately शामिल over 500,000 मजदूर और लागत an अनुमानित 18 अरब  rubles .
The official Soviet  casualty  count of 31 deaths has been disputed , and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for .
In grammar , a subject complement is a predicative expression that follows a linking verb ( copula ) and that complements ( completes ) the subject of the  वाक्य by either  ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing it .
in the पूर्व मामला , a renaming संज्ञा phrase ऐसे as a संज्ञा or सर्वनाम is पुकारा a predicative नाममात्र .
an क्रियाशील following  the copula and describing the subject is called a predicative adjective .
In   either case the predicative complement in effect mirrors the subject .
Subject complements are used  साथ a छोटी  class of verbs called linking verbs or copula , of which be is the most common .
चूंकि copula हैं  stative verbs , subject complements are not affected by any action of the verb .
Subject complements are typically not clause arguments , nor are  वे clause  adjuncts .
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards , many  significant  records have been set .
This page only includes  the  competitive awards won by various artists .
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the National Academy of  रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences ऐसे as आजीवन  Achievement Awards , Trustees Awards , Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production  फ़ील्ड  ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ) .
Marshall Bruce  mathers  III ( born October 17 , 1972 ) , better known by his stage name Eminem ( stylized as EMINƎM ) and by his alter ego Slim Shady , is an American rapper , record producer , songwriter and actor .
Eminem , along with his solo career , is a member of his group D12 , and  भी  one half of the hip hop duo Bad Meets Evil , with Royce da 5'9 '' .
Eminem is one  of  the best-selling artists in the world and is the best-selling artist of the 2000s .
he रै महरूम  listed and ranked as one of the greatest artists of all time by many magazines , including Rolling Stone magazine which ranked him 82nd on its list of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
The  वही  magazine declared him The King of Hip Hop .
Including his work  with  D12 and Bad Meets Evil , Eminem has achieved ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200 .
He has sold more than 100 million records worldwide , including  42  million tracks and 49.1 million albums in the United States .
As an  भूमिगत rapper  Eminem released his debut solo album , Infinite in 1996 .
The album  was  a critical and commercial failure .
He  gained  mainstream popularity in 1999 after the release of his major-label debut album The Slim Shady LP .
The LP also earned Eminem his first  Grammy  Award for Best Rap Album .
His next two records The Marshall Mathers LP , and The  एमिनेम दिखाएँ  , also won Best Rap Album Grammy Awards , making Eminem the first artist to win Best Rap Album for three consecutive LPs .
This was followed by another studio release in   2004 titled Encore .
Eminem then went on hiatus after touring in  2005  .
He  released  his first album in five years titled Relapse , on May 15 , 2009 .
In 2010 , Eminem released   his seventh studio album Recovery .
Recovery was an international success and was named  the बेहतरीन selling  album of 2010 worldwide , joining The Eminem Show , which was the best seller of 2002 .
Eminem won Grammy Awards for both  Relapse and  Recovery , giving him a total of 13 Grammys in his career .
एमिनेम रै खोली  other ventures , including his own record label Shady Records with his manager Paul Rosenberg .
He also has his own radio channel , Shade 45  on  Sirius XM Radio .
Eminem began  an एक्टिंग  career in 2002 , when he starred in the hip hop drama film 8 Mile .
He won the Academy Award for Best Original Song , becoming the first  रैप  artist ever to win the award .
He has also made cameo appearances in The Wash ( 2001 ) , Funny People ( 2009 ) and the  टेलीविज़न  series Entourage .
The acre is a  ईकाई of  area used in the imperial and U.S. customary systems .
An acre is about 40 % of  a  hectare – slightly smaller than an American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly  प्रयुक्त , हालांकि a few notable अपवाद शामिल the संयुक्त राज्य , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , बर्मा और the संयुक्त किंगडम ( as of 2010 , the एकड़ is no longer officially प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त किंगडम , हालांकि is स्टिल प्रयुक्त in रियल एस्टेट descriptions ) .
it is स्टिल प्रयुक्त , to कुछ extent , in कनाडा  .
The international symbol of the acre is ac , and is defined as 1/640 of a square  mile  .
The most commonly used acre  आज  is the international acre .
in  the United States both the international acre and the slightly different US survey acre are in use .
The most common use of the  एकड़  is to measure tracts of land .
One  अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224 वर्गाकार मीटर .
During the Middle Ages , an acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke  of oxen  .
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery  of the विधि of संरक्षण  of Mass led to many new findings in the 19th century .
Joseph Proust 's law of definite proportions and John Dalton 's atomic theory branched from the  discoveries of एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये  .
Lavoisier 's quantitative experiments revealed that combustion involved oxygen rather than what was   previously thought to be phlogiston .
The law of conservation of mass , or principle of mass conservation , states that for any system closed to all transfers of matter and energy ( both of which have mass ) , the mass of the system must remain constant over time , as system mass can not change quantity if  it is not  added or removed .
Hence ,  the  quantity of mass is `` conserved '' over time .
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed , although it may be rearranged in space , or the entities associated with it may be changed in form , as for example when light or physical work is transformed into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or work had  contributed  .
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical reaction , nuclear reaction , or radioactive decay  in an isolated system , the mass  of the reactants or starting material must equal the mass of the products .
The  अवधारणा of द्रव्यमान संरक्षण is widely प्रयुक्त in अनेक फ़ील्ड ऐसे as रसायन , यांत्रिकी , और द्रव डायनामिक्स .
Historically , mass conservation was discovered in chemical reactions by  एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये in the लेट  18th century , and was of crucial importance in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry .
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to such high approximation that it failed only for the high energies treated by the later refinements of relativity theory , but otherwise remains useful and sufficiently accurate for  सबसे रासायनिक calculations , भी in आधुनिक  practice .
In special relativity , needed for accuracy when large energy transfers between systems is involved , the difference between thermodynamically closed and isolated systems  becomes महत्वपूर्ण , चूंकि संरक्षण  of mass is strictly and perfectly upheld only for so-called isolated systems , i.e . those completely isolated from all exchanges with the environment .
In this circumstance , the mass-energy equivalence theorem states that mass conservation is  equivalent to total energy  conservation , which is the first law of thermodynamics .
By contrast , for a thermodynamically closed system ( i.e. , one which is closed to exchanges of matter , but open to exchanges of non-material energy , such as heat and work , with the surroundings ) mass is ( usually  ) only  approximately conserved .
The input or output of non-material energy must change the mass of the system in relativity theory , although the change is usually  small , since relatively  large amounts of such energy ( by comparison with ordinary experience ) carry only a small amount of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ) .
In special relativity , mass is not converted to energy , since energy in all of its forms always  retains इसके समतुल्य  amount of mass throughout any transformation or translocation into , or out of , a system .
However , certain types of matter ( a  अलग  concept ) may be converted to energy , so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the process .
However , if such energy is removed from systems ,  वे जरूर खोना the द्रव्यमान  that is associated with it .
In general relativity , mass ( and energy ) conservation in expanding volumes of space is a complex concept , subject to different definitions , and neither mass nor energy is as strictly  and simply  conserved as is the case in special relativity and in Minkowski space .
For a discussion  ,  see mass in general relativity .
A pig is any of the animals in the genus Sus , within   the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates .
Pigs include the domestic pig , its ancestor the wild boar , and several   other wild relatives .
यंग और  small pigs are known as piglets .
Pigs are omnivores and  are  highly social and intelligent animals .
8-inch , -inch ,  और -inch  floppy disks
8-inch , -inch ( full height  ) , and  -inch drives
A 3.5-inch  diskette 's `` फ्लॉपी  '' magnetic material , removed from its housing
A floppy disk , or diskette , is a disk storage medium composed of a disk of thin and flexible magnetic storage medium , sealed in a rectangular   plastic carrier lined with fabric that removes dust particles .
They are read and  लिखा  by a floppy disk drive ( FDD ) .
Floppy disks , initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm  )  sizes , were a ubiquitous form of data storage and exchange from the mid-1970s well into the first decade of the 21st century .
By 2010 , computer motherboards were rarely manufactured with floppy drive support ; `` floppies could be used  as an  external USB drive , but `` , 8 `` , and non-standard drives could only be handled by old equipment .
जबकि फ्लॉपी डिस्क ड्राइव स्टिल have कुछ सीमित उपयोग , विशेषकर साथ विरासत औद्योगिक कंप्यूटर उपकरण , वे have महरूम superseded by आंकड़ा भंडार विधि साथ much वृहद क्षमता , ऐसे as usb फ्लैश ड्राइव , पोर्टेबल बाह्य मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव , ऑप्टिकल  discs , memory cards , and computer networks .
An  एनिमेटेड  diagram of a cutter
In baseball , a cutter  ,  or cut fastball , is a type of fastball which breaks slightly toward the pitcher 's glove side as it reaches home plate .
This pitch is somewhere between a slider and a fastball , as it is usually thrown faster than a  स्लाइडर लकिन साथ  more motion than a typical fastball .
Some pitchers  use a cutter as a way to  prevent hitters from expecting their regular fastballs .
A common technique used to throw a cutter is to  उपयोग a four-seam fastball पकड़ साथ  the baseball set slightly off center in the hand .
When  a batter is  able to hit a cutter pitch , it often results in soft contact and an easy out , due to the pitch 's movement keeping the ball away from the bat 's sweet spot .
The cutter is typically 2–5 mph slower than a pitcher 's  four-seam fastball  .
In 2010 , the average pitch  वर्गीकृत as a कटर by pitchf/x  thrown by a right-handed pitcher was 88.6 mph ; the average four-seamer was 92.1 mph .
`` What It Takes '' is a power ballad by American  hard  rock band Aerosmith .
It was written  by  Steven Tyler , Joe Perry , and Desmond Child .
It was released in 1990 as the third single from Aerosmith 's  critically  and commercially successful 1989 album Pump .
In the video The Making of Pump , A & R man John Kalodner described the song as `` a  कलाकृति  '' .
During live  प्रदर्शन  , Tyler sings the first verse a cappella and belts out one of his signature screams right before the chorus .
The album version of  the सोंग is followed  by an untitled hidden track .
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble group  representing  Odysseus blinding Polyphemus , found at the villa of Tiberius at Sperlonga
Detail of an ancient Roman   mosaic of Ulysses in Tunisia
Odysseus ( or ; Greek : , ) , also known by the Roman name  Ulysses ( ; ) , was  a legendary Greek king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey .
Odysseus also plays  a कुंजी भूमिका in होमर  's Iliad and other works in that same Epic Cycle .
Husband of Penelope , father of Telemachus ,  and son of Laërtes (  or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea , Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance , guile , and versatility ( polytropos ) , and is hence known by the epithet Odysseus the Cunning ( mētis , or `` cunning intelligence `` ) .
He is most famous for the ten eventful years he took to return home after the decade-long Trojan  War and  his famous Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy .
Erie is a  Statutory Town  in Boulder and Weld counties in the U.S. state of Colorado .
The population according to the 2010 census is 18,135 and was  अंकित  as 6,291 at the 2000 census .
The Town of Erie is located just west of I-25 for easy access to I-70 , Denver International Airport and  कोलोराडो  's entire Front Range .
Erie 's Planning Area spans 48 square miles , extending from the north  side of State  Highway 52 south to State Highway 7 , and between US 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the east .
Erie is approximately 35 minutes from Denver International  विमानक्षेत्र , 25 मिनट्स  to Denver and 20 minutes from Boulder .
the फलक of trustees serves as the विधान और शासी देह of the कस्बा of erie और is जिम्मेदार लिये establishing कस्बा नीतियों और लक्ष्य  .
The Board  रै the प्राधिकार  to adopt laws , ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business of the Town , and by ordinance may enter into contracts or intergovernmental agreements to furnish , receive services or to provide for cooperative service delivery .
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees  , the  Town Administrator is the chief operating and administrative officer of the Town and is responsible for providing professional leadership in the administration and execution of policies and objectives formulated by the Board .
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to communicate and work with the community to maintain a  safe  environment , prevent crime and enforce the law , while protecting the rights of all .
Erie Municipal Airport ( EIK ) is owned and operated by the Town of Erie and is strategically located in the Denver-Boulder metropolitan area on Colorado Highway 7 , a  छोटी  over three miles west of Interstate 25 .
The  प्रमुख रनवे is  concrete paved and 4,700 feet long .
The is a home video   game console produced by Sony Computer Entertainment .
It is  the  successor to the PlayStation 2 , as part of the PlayStation series .
The PlayStation 3 competes with Microsoft 's Xbox 360 and Nintendo 's Wii as part of the  सातवाँ  generation of video game consoles .
It was first  released  on November 11 , 2006 , in Japan , with international markets following shortly thereafter .
The console was  पहला  officially announced at E3 2005 .
Originally set for a spring 2006 release date , it was delayed several times until  आखिरकार  hitting stores at the end of the year .
It was the first and currently only console to use Blu-ray Disc as its primary   storage medium .
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service , the PlayStation Network , and its connectivity with the PlayStation Portable and PlayStation Vita , In September 2009   the updated PlayStation 3 Slim , was released .
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the original version , although it lacks PlayStation 2 backwards compatibility ( removed on later  original models  ) , but notably featured a re-designed logo and marketing design .
As of November 4 , 2012 , 70 million PlayStation 3s   have been sold worldwide .
Its successor   , PlayStation 4 , is set for a Q4 2013 release .
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech , 1st  marqués de dalí de pubol ( may 11  , 1904January 23 , 1989 ) , known as Salvador Dalí ( ) , was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres , Spain .
Dalí was a skilled draftsman , best known for the striking  और विचित्र  images in his surrealist work .
His painterly skills are often attributed to the influence of Renaissance  मास्टर्स  .
His best-known  कार्य  , The Persistence of Memory , was completed in 1931 .
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included film , sculpture  , and  photography , in collaboration with a range of artists in a variety of media .
Dalí attributed his `` love of everything that is gilded and excessive , my passion for luxury and my love of oriental clothes '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage ''   , claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors .
Dalí was highly imaginative , and also enjoyed indulging in unusual and  वैभवशाली  behavior .
His eccentric manner and attention-grabbing public actions sometimes drew more attention than his artwork , to the dismay of those who held his work in high esteem , and to the irritation of   his critics .
Philosopher  प्लेटो  by Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture , using methods   that are primarily analytical , critical , or speculative , and having a significant historical element , as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences .
The humanities include ancient and modern  भाषाएं , साहित्य  , philosophy , religion , and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre .
the मानवता  that are also regarded as social sciences include history , anthropology , area studies , communication studies , cultural studies , law , economics and linguistics .
Scholars working in the humanities are sometimes described as  ``  humanists '' .
However , that term also describes the philosophical position of  मानवतावाद  , which some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject .
Some secondary schools  प्रस्ताव मानवता  classes , usually consisting of English literature , global studies , and art .
Human disciplines  जैसे इतिहास , सांस्कृतिक  anthropology and psychoanalysis study subject matters to which the experimental method does not apply , and they have access instead to the comparative method and comparative research .
The 2005 Blue  रूम  Christmas Tree
The White House Christmas Tree , also known as the Blue Room Christmas Tree , is the official indoor Christmas tree at the residence of  the  President of the United States , the White House .
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( there are varying claims as to the exact year ) and since 1961 the tree has had a themed   motif at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States .
The  अध्यक्ष of  the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the United States  हथियारबंद शक्तियां  .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and  आरोप उसे साथ  the execution of federal law , alongside the responsibility of appointing federal executive , diplomatic , regulatory , and judicial officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and  reprieves , और to  convene and adjourn either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United  States  , the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president , despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills , is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States .
The president  is  frequently described as the most powerful person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term , and is one  of  only two nationally elected federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States .
The  twenty-second  Amendment , adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term .
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president , or acting  अध्यक्ष , लिये अधिक than  two years of another person 's term as president .
In all   , 43 individuals have served 55 four-year terms .
On January 20 , 2009 ,  बराक ओबामा became  the 44th and current president .
On November 6 , 2012 , he was  re-elected और  is scheduled to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Senses are physiological capacities of  जीवों  that provide data for perception .
The senses and their operation , classification , and theory are overlapping  topics  studied by a variety of fields , most notably neuroscience , cognitive psychology ( or cognitive science ) , and philosophy of perception .
the बेचैन प्रणाली रै a विशिष्ट संवेदी प्रणाली or अंग , समर्पित to प्रत्येक भाव .
Humans  have a multitude  of senses .
Sight ( ophthalmoception ) , hearing ( audioception ) , taste ( gustaoception ) , smell ( olfacoception or olfacception  ) , and  touch ( tactioception ) are the five traditionally recognized .
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists , including temperature ( thermoception ) , kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ) , pain ( nociception ) , balance ( equilibrioception ) , acceleration ( kinesthesioception ) , and various internal  stimuli ( e.g . the different chemoreceptors  for detecting salt and carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood ) , only a small number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves .
What constitutes a sense is a matter of some debate , leading to difficulties in defining what  exactly  a sense is .
Animals  भी  have receptors to sense the world around them , with degrees of capability varying greatly between species .
Humans have a comparatively weak sense of smell , while some animals may lack one or more of the traditional   five senses .
Some animals may  also intake  and interpret sensory stimuli in very different ways .
Some species of animals are able to sense the  संसार in a रास्ता कि  humans can not , with some species able to sense electrical and magnetic fields , and detect water pressure and currents .
Spiders ( order  araneae )  are air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom .
They are  the largest अनुक्रम  of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among all other groups of organisms .
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent   except for Antarctica , and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at least 43,678 spider species , and 109 families  have been  recorded by taxonomists ; however , there has been confusion within the scientific community as to how all these families should be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other  arthropods in that the  usual body segments are fused into two tagmata , the cephalothorax and abdomen , and joined by a small , cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike  कीट  , spiders do not have antennae .
In all except the most primitive group , the Mesothelae , spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods , as all their ganglia are fused  into one mass in  the cephalothorax .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have no extensor muscles in their  limbs and  instead extend them by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified   into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen .
Spider webs vary widely in size , shape and  the राशि of स्टिकी  thread used .
It now  appears that the  spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms , and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing   spigots appeared in the Devonian period about , but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets .
True spiders  have महरूम मिला in  Carboniferous rocks from , and are very similar to the most primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups of modern  मकड़ियों , mygalomorphae  and Araneomorphae , first appeared in the Triassic period , before .
A herbivorous species , Bagheera  kiplingi , थी वर्णित in 2008  , but all other known species are predators , mostly preying on insects and on other spiders , although a few large species also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in  स्टिकी webs  , lassoing it with sticky bolas , mimicking the prey to avoid detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing vibrations , but the active hunters have acute vision , and hunters of the genus  Portia show  signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones .
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids , and they liquidize their food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the  bases of उनके pedipalps  , as they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of complex courtship   rituals to avoid being eaten by the females .
Males of most  species  survive a few matings , limited mainly by their short life spans .
Females weave silk egg-cases  , प्रत्येक of  which may contain hundreds of eggs .
महिलाओं of  many species care for their young , for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them .
A minority of species are  सोशल , भवन सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस  anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals .
Social behavior ranges from precarious toleration , as in the widow spiders ,  to  co-operative hunting and food-sharing .
Although most spiders live for  at सबसे  two years , tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity .
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans , scientists  हैं अभी  researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides .
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness , strength and elasticity that is superior to  कि of सिंथेटिक  materials , and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories .
As a result of their wide range of behaviors  , spiders have become  common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
Grey 's Anatomy is an American television medical drama that premiered on the American Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) , as a mid-season  बदलना  on March 27 , 2005 .
The series has aired nine seasons , and focuses on the  fictional  lives of surgical interns and residents as they gradually evolve into seasoned doctors , while trying to maintain personal lives .
The show 's premise originated with Shonda Rhimes , who serves as an executive producer , along with Betsy Beers , Mark Gordon , Krista Vernoff , Rob Corn , Mark Wilding , and  allan heinberg  .
The series was created to  be  racially diverse , utilizing a color-blind casting technique .
It is primarily filmed in  लॉस  Angeles , California .
The series ' protagonist is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ) , who originally is accepted into the residency program  at the  fictional Seattle Grace Hospital .
Meredith  is आबंटित to कार्य अंतर्गत dr. मिरांडा बेली ( चन्द्रा विल्सन ) , साथ साथ dr. क्रिस्टीना यांग ( सैंड्रा oh ) , dr. जार्ज o'malley ( T. R. नाईट ) , dr. izzie स्टीवंस ( कैथरीन heigl ) , और dr. एलेक्स karev ( जस्टिन कक्षों ) .
following o'malley 's मौत और स्टीवंस ' प्रस्थान , the हॉस्पिटल 's विलय साथ रहमत वेस्ट brings in dr. जैक्सन एवेरी ( जेसी विलियम्स ) और dr. अप्रैल kepner ( सारा खींचा ) , in the छठे  season .
The surgical wing  is  primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James Pickens , Jr. ) , who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek Shepherd ( Patrick Dempsey ) , and later Dr. Owen Hunt ( Kevin McKidd ) .
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season , and is replaced by Dr. Erica Hahn ( Brooke Smith ) , who leaves the show during the fifth season , and later Dr.  टेडी altman ( किम raver  ) , who departs at the end of the eighth season .
Introduced in  the दूसरी ऋतु is  Dr. Addison Montgomery ( Kate Walsh ) , who leaves the show at the end of the third season , in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama Private Practice .
Dr.  callie टोरेस ( सारा रामिरेज़ ) और dr. चिह्नित स्लोअन ( eric डेन ) भी डालें the दिखाएँ in the दूसरी ऋतु , जबकि the latter मरता in the प्रीमियर of the नवीं ऋतु .
Meredith 's half-sister , Dr. Lexie Grey ( Chyler Leigh ) , appears from season three and dies at the end of season  आठ  .
Dr. Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw ) is given series regular status at the  शुरूआत of the छठे  season .
Grey 's Anatomy is the highest-rated drama  in the कुंजी 18–49  demographic .
Previously among the overall top-ten rated shows in the United  राज्य ,  Grey 's Anatomy has been well received by critics .
Considered an impact on culture , the series has  प्राप्त numerous  awards , and has also been included in various critics ' top ten lists .
The show has produced several specials , as well as  वितरित  all seasons to DVD , and released a collection of merchandise .
In 2012 , Grey 's Anatomy was named the fifth-highest revenue   earning show , in terms of advertising per half-hour .
on may 11  , 2012 , the series was renewed for a ninth season , which premiered on September 27 , 2012 .
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a   mental disorder characterized by a breakdown of thought processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses .
Common symptoms include auditory hallucinations , paranoid or bizarre  delusions , or disorganized वाक  and thinking , and it is accompanied by significant social or occupational dysfunction .
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in young adulthood , with a global lifetime   prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 % .
Diagnosis is based  on  observed behavior and the patient 's reported experiences .
Genetics , early environment ,  neurobiology , और मनोवैज्ञानिक  and social processes appear to be important contributory factors ; some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms .
Current research is focused on the role of neurobiology , although no  सिंगल पृथक  organic cause has been found .
the अनेक संभावित combinations of लक्षण have triggered बहस परिचय whether the निदान represents a सिंगल विकार or a क्रमांक of अलहदा syndromes  .
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek roots  skhizein ( σχίζειν , ``  to split '' ) and phrēn , phren- ( φρήν , φρεν- ; `` mind '' ) , schizophrenia does not imply a `` split personality '' , or `` multiple personality disorder '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception .
Rather , the term means a `` splitting of mental functions '' , because of  the  symptomatic presentation of the illness .
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic  दवा , जिससे  primarily suppresses dopamine ( and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity .
मनोचिकित्सा  and vocational and social rehabilitation are also important in treatment .
In more   serious cases—where there is risk to self and others— involuntary hospitalization may be necessary , although hospital stays are now shorter and less frequent than they once were .
The disorder  is  thought mainly to affect cognition , but it also usually contributes to chronic problems with behavior and emotion .
People with schizophrenia are likely to have additional ( comorbid )  शर्तें , सहित प्रमुख  depression and anxiety disorders ; the lifetime occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 % .
Social problems , such as long-term  बेरोजगारी ,  poverty , and homelessness are common .
The average life expectancy of people with the disorder is 12 to 15 years less than those without , the result of  increased  physical health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ) .
Paul Leslie Snider ( April 15 , 1951–August 14 , 1980 ) was the estranged husband and manager of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten , whom he murdered   before killing himself the same day .
the  Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature .
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about  'Bilgamesh  ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ) , king of Uruk .
Four of these were used as source material for a combined epic in  अक्कादी  .
This first  संयुक्त एपिक , ज्ञात as the  `` Old Babylonian '' version , dates to the 18th century BC and is titled after its incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a few fragments of  it have  survived .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the  13th to the  10th centuries BC and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer , twelve-tablet version have  महरूम  recovered .
Some of the best  नक़ल  were discovered in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers on a friendship between Gilgamesh and  enkidu  .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him  from  oppressing the people of Uruk .
Together  , they  journey to the Cedar Mountain to defeat Humbaba , its monstrous guardian .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven , which  the देवी  Ishtar sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances .
As a   punishment for these actions , the gods sentence Enkidu to death .
The second half of the epic focuses  on gilgamesh 's तकलीफ  at Enkidu 's death , and his quest for immortality .
In order to learn the secret of  eternal  life , Gilgamesh undertakes a long and perilous journey .
He learns that  `` the जीवन  that you are seeking you will never find .
When the gods created  man वे आवंटित  to him death , but life they retained in their own keeping . ''
This quote was originally attributed  to siduri in the बूढ़ा babylonian  version of the epic , and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic .
Nevertheless ,  gilgamesh 's कीर्ति जिया  on after his death , because of his great building projects , and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during the flood .
The story has been translated into many different languages , and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works  of popular  fiction .
A  सुकेन्द्रिक  ( or ) is an organism whose cells contain complex structures enclosed within membranes .
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the taxon  eukarya or  Eukaryota .
The  धमक membrane-bound  structure that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus , or nuclear envelope , within which the genetic material is carried .
The presence  of a  nucleus gives eukaryotes their name , which comes from the Greek ( eu , `` good '' ) and ( karyon , `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ) .
Most  eukaryotic कोशिकाएं  also contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria , chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus .
All large complex organisms are eukaryotes , including animals   , plants and fungi .
The group also includes many  एककोशिकीय  organisms .
Cell division in eukaryotes is  अलग  from that in organisms without a nucleus ( Prokaryote ) .
It involves separating the duplicated chromosomes ,   through movements directed by microtubules .
वहीँ  are two types of division processes .
In  समसूत्रण ,  one cell divides to produce two genetically identical cells .
In meiosis , which is required in sexual reproduction , one diploid cell ( having two instances of each chromosome , one from each parent ) undergoes recombination of each pair of parental chromosomes , and then two stages of  कोशिका प्रभाग , resulting  in four haploid cells ( gametes ) .
Each gamete has just one complement of chromosomes , each a  अद्वितीय  mix of the corresponding pair of parental chromosomes .
Eukaryota appears to be monophyletic , and so makes up one of the three  डोमेन of जीवन  .
The two other domains  ,  Bacteria and Archaea , are prokaryotes and have none of the above features .
Eukaryotes represent a tiny  minority  of all living things ; even in a human body there are 10 times more microbes than human cells .
However , due to their much larger   size their collective worldwide biomass is estimated at about equal to that of prokaryotes .
They are considered to have  पहला विकसित  approximately 1.6–2.1 billion years ago .
The  use of Internet services  or software with Internet access to defraud victims or to otherwise take advantage of them , for example by stealing personal information , which can even lead to identity theft .
A very common  रूप of  Internet fraud is the distribution of rogue security software .
Internet services can be used to present fraudulent solicitations to prospective victims , to conduct fraudulent transactions , or to transmit the proceeds of fraud  to  financial institutions or to others connected with the scheme .
Internet fraud can occur in chat rooms , email , message  फलक  , or on websites .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा सहायता  Force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led security mission in Afghanistan that was established by the United Nations Security Council in December 2001 by Resolution 1386 , as envisaged by the Bonn Agreement .
Its main purpose is to train  the Afghan  National Security Forces ( ANSF ) and assist Afghanistan in rebuilding key government institutions but is also engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups .
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul and surrounding areas from the Taliban , al Qaeda and factional warlords , so as to allow for the establishment of the Afghan Transitional  प्रशासन  headed by Hamid Karzai .
In October 2003 , the UN Security Council authorized the  विस्तार of the  ISAF mission throughout Afghanistan , and ISAF subsequently expanded the mission in four main stages over the whole of the country .
From 2006 to 2011 , ISAF had been involved in increasingly more intensive combat operations in southern  and eastern  Afghanistan .
Troop contributors include from the  United States ,  United Kingdom , NATO member states and a number of other countries .
The intensity of the combat faced by contributing nations varies greatly , with the United States , United Kingdom , and Canada sustaining the majority of casualties in intensive combat operations , with other contributors sustaining   significantly less .
As of early 2010 , there were at least 700 military bases inside Afghanistan   but more were expected to be built in the coming years .
About 400 of these were  प्रयुक्त  by American‐led NATO forces and 300 by ANSF .
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine  ) ( INN ) is a  crystalline tropane alkaloid that is obtained from the leaves of the coca plant .
The name comes from `` coca '' and the alkaloid suffix  -ine , forming  cocaine .
It   is a stimulant , an appetite suppressant , and a topical anesthetic .
Biologically , cocaine acts as  a  serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake inhibitor , also known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ) .
It is  addictive क्युकी  of its effect on the mesolimbic reward pathway .
Unlike most molecules , cocaine has pockets with both high  hydrophilic and  lipophilic efficiency , violating the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance .
This causes it to cross the blood–brain barrier far better than other  psychoactive  chemicals and may even induce blood-brain barrier breakdown .
It is illegal to possess , produce , or distribute cocaine for non-medicinal and non-government-sanctioned purposes in  लगभग प्रत्येक देश  .
Whole   beef tri-tip rump , roasted medium rare
The tri-tip is a cut of  बीफ  from the bottom sirloin primal cut .
It is a small triangular  मांसपेशी , प्रायः  1.5 to 2.5 lbs . ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side of beef .
The scientific name of this muscle is tensor fasciae latae , inserted in the fascia lata , the connective tissue covering the quadriceps femoris , also called quadriceps extensor , a group of four muscles  which in turn  insert in the patella , or knee cap of the animal .
Willmar is a city in , and the county seat of , Kandiyohi County ,  मिनेसोटा , संयुक्त  States .
The population was 19,610  at  the 2010 census .
Willmar has been  assigned ZIP code  56201 by the United States Postal Service .
U.S . Routes 12 and 71 and Minnesota State Highways 23 and 40 are four of the main routes  in the city  .
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives ( or Speaker of the House ) is  the पीठासीन अधिकारी  of the chamber .
The office was established in 1789 by Article I , Section 2 of the United States Constitution , which states in part , `` The House of  प्रतिनिधि  shall chuse their Speaker ... ''
The current Speaker is  जॉन boehner  , a Republican who represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district .
the संविधान  does not require that the Speaker be a Member of Congress , but no non-member has ever been elected to the office .
The Speaker is second in the United States  अध्यक्षीय लकीर of  succession , after the Vice President and ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate .
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments , in which the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan , in the United States the Speaker of the House is a  नेतृत्व स्थिति और the office-holder actively  works to set the majority party 's legislative agenda .
The Speaker usually does not personally preside  over debates ,  instead delegating the duty to members of the House from the majority party .
Aside from duties relating to heading  the  House and the majority political party , the Speaker also performs administrative and procedural functions , and represents his or her Congressional district .
A bicycle frame is the main component of a bicycle , on to which wheels and other components are  fitted  .
The modern and most common frame design for an  कतरा सायकिल is आधारित  on the safety bicycle , and consists of two triangles , a main triangle and a paired rear triangle .
This is  ज्ञात as  the diamond frame .
Frames are required to be strong , stiff and light , which they  do  by combining different materials and shapes .
`` Simple gravity pendulum  ''  model assumes no friction or air resistance .
an  exemplar animation of a pendulum showing the velocity and acceleration vectors
A pendulum is a weight  निलंबित  from a so that it can swing freely .
When a pendulum is displaced  बगलों इससे इसके resting  equilibrium position , it is subject to a restoring force due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position .
When released , the restoring force combined with the pendulum 's mass causes it to oscillate about the equilibrium position ,   swinging back and forth .
The time for one complete  साईकिल  , a left swing and a right swing , is called the period .
A pendulum swings  साथ a विशिष्ट  period which depends ( mainly ) on its length .
From its discovery around 1602 by Galileo Galilei the regular motion  of pendulums थी प्रयुक्त लिये timekeeping  , and was the world 's most accurate timekeeping technology until the 1930s .
Pendulums are used to regulate pendulum clocks  , and are  used in scientific instruments such as accelerometers and seismometers .
Historically they were used as gravimeters to measure the acceleration of  गम्भीरता in geophysical सर्वेक्षण  , and even as a standard of length .
The word 'pendulum ' is new Latin ,  इससे the लैटिन pendulus  , meaning 'hanging ' .
the सरल गम्भीरता लोलक is an idealized गणितीय मॉडल of a लोलक  .
This is a weight ( or bob )  on the  end of a massless cord suspended from a , without friction .
When given an initial push , it will swing back and forth  at a निरंतर  amplitude .
Real pendulums are subject to friction and air drag , so the amplitude of their   swings declines .
The First Battle of Bull Run , also known  as पहला manassas ( the नाम  used by Confederate forces ) , was fought on July 21 , 1861 , in Prince William County , Virginia , near the city of Manassas .
It was the first major land battle of the American Civil  War  .
Just months after the start of the war at Fort Sumter , the Northern public clamored for a march  विरूद्ध the  Confederate capital of Richmond , Virginia , which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion .
Yielding to political pressure , Brig . Gen. Irvin McDowell led his unseasoned Union Army across Bull Run against  the equally inexperienced Confederate Army of  Brig . Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction .
mcdowell 's महत्वाकांक्षी योजना लिये a आश्चर्य पार्श्व आक्रमण on the confederate बाएँ थी poorly चलाया by उसके अधिकारियों और मेन ; nevertheless , the confederates , जो था महरूम नियोजन to आक्रमण the संघ बाएँ पार्श्व , मिला themselves at an आरंभिक disadvantage .
Confederate reinforcements under Brig . Gen. Joseph E. Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah Valley by railroad and the course of the battle quickly   changed .
A brigade of Virginians under a relatively unknown colonel  इससे the वर्जिनिया  Military Institute , Thomas J. Jackson , stood their ground and Jackson received his famous nickname , `` Stonewall Jackson '' .
The Confederates then launched a strong counterattack , and as the Union troops began withdrawing under fire , many panicked and  it turned into a rout as  McDowell 's men frantically ran without order in the direction of Washington , D.C .
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and many  हताहत , और  realized the war was going to be much longer and bloodier than either had anticipated .
Thunderstorm near Garajau ,  madeira
Weather is the state of the  माहौल  , to the degree that it is hot or cold , wet or dry , calm or stormy , clear or cloudy .
Most weather phenomena occur in the troposphere , just below the  stratosphere  .
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and precipitation activity , whereas climate is  the पद लिये  the average atmospheric conditions over longer periods of time .
When used without qualification ,  ``  weather '' is understood to be the weather of Earth .
Weather is driven by air pressure  (  temperature and moisture ) differences between one place and another .
These pressure and temperature differences can occur due to the sun angle at any particular spot , which varies by latitude  इससे the  tropics .
The strong temperature contrast between polar and tropical air gives  rise to  the jet stream .
Weather systems in the  mid-latitudes , ऐसे  as extratropical cyclones , are caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow .
क्युकी the धरती 's अक्ष is tilted सापेक्ष to इसके कक्षीय प्लेन , धूप is घटना at अलग कोण at अलग टाइम्स of the साल .
On Earth 's   surface , temperatures usually range ±40 °C ( −40 °F to 100 °F ) annually .
Over thousands of years , changes  in Earth  's orbit affect the amount and distribution of solar energy received by the Earth and influence long-term climate and global climate change .
सतह तापमान मतभेद in फेरे कारण दबाव मतभेद .
Higher altitudes are cooler than lower altitudes due to differences in  compressional  heating .
Weather forecasting is the application of science and technology to predict  the  state of the atmosphere for a future time and a given location .
The atmosphere is a chaotic system , so  छोटी परिवर्तन to एक भाग of  the system can grow to have large effects on the system as a whole .
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout human history , and there is evidence that human activity such as agriculture and industry has  inadvertently परिवर्धित  weather patterns .
Studying   how the weather works on other planets has been helpful in understanding how weather works on Earth .
A famous landmark in the Solar System , Jupiter 's Great Red Spot ,  is an anticyclonic  storm known to have existed for at least 300 years .
However , weather is  नहीं  limited to planetary bodies .
A star 's corona is constantly being lost to space , creating what  is  essentially a very thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System .
The movement of mass ejected from the Sun is known   as the solar wind .
कैटी पेरी  is an American singer-songwriter from Santa Barbara , California .
वो हस्ताक्षरित साथ कैपिटल रिकॉर्ड .
Perry has released three studio albums , including her debut Christian effort Katy   Hudson , One of the Boys , and Teenage Dream .
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked off with the massive chart success of her  डेब्यू सिंगल ``  I Kissed a Girl `` .
During  उसके करियर  , Perry has been nominated for numerous major music awards , primarily for Teenage Dream and One of the Boys .
The following is a list of sovereign  states and  territories where English is an official language or language of government .
In 2012 , there were 88 states in total ( 60 sovereign states and 28 non-sovereign states )  .
in अनेक  countries English is the dominant language , but does not have official status .
In Australia , English is spoken by the vast majority of the population and is the only  भाषा प्रयुक्त in सरकारी  institutions , but Australia does not have an official language .
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the United States , though many states and regions   within the U.S. do have English as an official language .
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an official language of Canada ( along with French ) , India ( along with Hindi and several other  भाषाएं  ) , Ireland ( along with Irish ) , and the Philippines ( along with Tagalog ) .
English is the sole official language of the  राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र  and the Commonwealth Games .
English is one of the official  भाषाएं of the  United Nations , the European Union and the International Olympic Committee .
Many of these countries are  current or  former colonies or dependencies of the United Kingdom ( see also British Empire ) , or of the United States , itself a former colony of the UK .
Notable exceptions include Rwanda , which was a former Belgian colony and Eritrea , which was an Italian colony where the British Empire spanned its control only in World War II and  shortly  after ( 1941-1952 ) .
India 's linguistic picture is   complex .
According to the Constitution of India , `` Hindi in the  देवनागरी स्क्रिप्ट '' is the आधिकारिक भाषा of the संघ ; और अंग्रेज़ी the 'subsidiary  official language ' ; however , English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal laws and Supreme Court decisions and ( along with Hindi ) is one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament .
English is used almost exclusively for  उच्चतर  education , business and science .
पाठ्यक्रम  in majority of the schools are taught exclusively in English .
English is extensively used for  प्रशासनिक  purposes in India .
India is the second-largest English-speaking country in the world  by  number of speakers , after the United States .
As such , many consider  अंग्रेज़ी  to be the de facto official language of India .
See Official  भाषाएं  of India .
The linguistic makeup of Pakistan is similarly   complex .
While the national language is Urdu , English is an  आधिकारिक  language and used in business , government and law .
English   is a compulsory language in schools .
All  स्कूल पाठ्यक्रम  are taught in English .
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking country in the world by  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Southern Cone ( , ) is a geographic region composed of the southernmost areas of South America , south of the  tropic  of Capricorn .
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo ) of Brazil , in terms of political geography the Southern cone has traditionally comprised   Argentina , Chile , Paraguay , and Uruguay .
In the narrowest sense , it only covers Argentina , Chile and Uruguay , bounded on the north by the states of Brazil , Paraguay , Bolivia and Peru , on the west by the Pacific Ocean , and south to the junction between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans , which it is  the closest  continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ) .
ऊँची जीवन प्रत्याशा , the उच्चतम इंसान विकास अनुक्रमणिका of लैटिन अमेरिका , ऊँची मानक of जीना , significant भागीदारी in the वैश्विक बाज़ार और the उभरते अर्थव्यवस्था of इसके सदस्यों मेक the दक्षिणी कोन the सबसे prosperous macro-region in दक्षिण अमेरिका .
For multi-event athletic competitions see Track and Field  प्रतियोगिताओं , खण्ड `` बैठक  '' .
Meetings are sometimes held around conference  टेबल  .
In a meeting , two or more people come  साथ to discuss  one or more topics , often in a formal setting .
an आधिकारिक खेल in बेसबॉल , भी sometimes पुकारा a विनियमन खेल , is a खेल कि रै progressed परे the पाइंट at जिससे it can be माना पूरा if जरुरी .
This is approximately the   halfway point of the game .
In the  मामला of inclement मौसम , कोई खेल जिससे रै पहुँचे इस पाइंट may be रोका और shortened as needed , साथ the परिणाम होने फाइनल , और सब रिकॉर्ड और आंकडे गिने .
A game which has not reached this point before being stopped  is  either considered a suspended game ( to be continued at a later date from the point of stoppage ) , or is simply canceled and replayed from the start .
( इस depends on the नियम of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत लीग  . )
In either case , no   statistics are counted until the game becomes official .
चूंकि सबसे पेशेवर बेसबॉल  games are nine innings long , the fifth inning is used as the threshold for an official game .
If the visiting team is leading , or the game is tied , the end of the  पांचवां inning marks  this point .
If the home team ( which  bats पिछला ) is already ahead in the स्कोर , और theoretically होता नहीं need इसके हाफ of the पांचवां inning , तब 41⁄2 पारी ( i.e. , the मध्य of the पांचवां ) is माना an आधिकारिक खेल .
The game is also considered official if the home team scores to take the lead in the bottom of the fifth inning , since the game would end immediately  if the same thing happened in the ninth  .
In nearly all  मामले  , the `` official game '' status is used to determine whether a rain check will be honored for fans holding tickets .
If a game  is started but does not reach the point  of becoming official , fans are entitled to a new ticket for the make-up game or ( in most cases ) any other available game of their choice .
If a game is halted after it becomes official , the game is simply  shortened  and no rain check is given .
The `` official game '' statistic received some attention during   the 1995 season , when Cal Ripken , Jr. was approaching the record for consecutive games played , previously held by Lou Gehrig .
Large numbers were hung on  the side of the B  & O Warehouse at Oriole Park at Camden Yards to show the number of games in Ripken 's streak .
Each day , a new number  was unfurled during the  fifth inning after each game had become official ( since the statistic would not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ) .
A similar practice has  महरूम प्रयुक्त to गिनती bas  toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003 , Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis in 2005 , and the original Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium in New York City in 2008 ) ; as each game became official , the team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played in the stadium .
A telephone number or  फोन क्रमांक is a अनुक्रम of अंक प्रयुक्त to कॉल इससे एक टेलीफोन लकीर to another in a पब्लिक switched टेलीफोन संजाल .
When telephone   numbers were invented , they were short — as few as one , two or three digits — and were given orally to a switchboard operator .
As phone systems have grown and interconnected to encompass the world ,  टेलीफोन संख्याएँ  have become longer .
In addition to telephones , they now access other devices , such  as कंप्यूटर और  fax machines .
The number contains the information necessary to identify uniquely the intended endpoint for the  टेलीफोन  call .
Each such  endpoint जरूर  have a unique number within the public switched telephone network .
सबसे देशों उपयोग फिक्स्ड लंबाई संख्याएँ ( लिये सामान्य लाइनों at तनिक ) और इसलिए the क्रमांक of endpoints determines the जरुरी लंबाई of the टेलीफोन क्रमांक  .
It is also possible for each subscriber  to have a set of  shorter numbers for the endpoints most often used .
These `` shorthand '' or `` speed calling '' numbers   are automatically translated to unique telephone numbers before the call can be connected .
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g. , 1-1-9 , 9-1-1 , 0-0-0 , 9-9-9 , 1-1-1 , and 1-1-2 being the Emergency  Services numbers for China , Japan  , South Korea , Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ; Australia ; the United Kingdom , Ireland , South Africa , Poland , Saudi Arabia , the United Arab Emirates , Morocco , Macao , Bahrain , Qatar , Bangladesh , Botswana , Ghana , Kenya , Hong Kong , Malaysia , Mauritius , Singapore , Zimbabwe , Trinidad , Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union , respectively . )
Many systems also allow calls within a local area  to be made  without dialing the local area code .
For example  , a phone  number in North America will start with three numbers ( such as 661 ) , which is the area code , followed by seven digits split into sections of three and four ( such as 550-1212 ) , which is the local number .
Some areas  now have  mandatory ten-digit dialing in place , even for local calls .
Most telephone networks today ( exceptions being private intercom and secure phone  संजाल ) हैं interconnected  in the international telephone network , where the format of telephone numbers is standardized by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164 .
This specifies that the entire number  चाहिए  be 15 digits or shorter , and begin with a country prefix .
For most  देशों  , this is followed by an area code or city code and the subscriber number , which might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange .
ITU-T recommendation  e.123 describes  how to represent an international telephone number in writing or print , starting with a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the country code .
When calling an international number from a fixed line phone , the + must be replaced with the international call prefix  चुनी by  the country the call is being made from .
Some   mobile phones allow the + to be entered directly .
The format and  आवंटन of लोकल फोन संख्याएँ हैं नियंत्रित by प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's संबंधित सरकारी , either सीधे or by प्रायोजित संगठन ( ऐसे as nanpa overseen by neustar inc. ) .
Before a telephone call is connected , the telephone number must be dialed by the  calling  party or Caller .
The called party might have equipment that  presents  caller ID before the call is answered .
A  संग्रहण एजेंसी is  a business that pursues payments of debts owed by individuals or businesses .
Most collection agencies operate as agents of creditors  and  collect debts for a fee or percentage of the total amount owed .
वहीँ हैं अनेक प्रकार of संग्रहण एजेंसियों .
First-party agencies  हैं oftentimes  subsidiaries of the original company the debt is owed to .
Third-party agencies are separate companies   contracted by a company to collect debts on their behalf for a fee .
Debt buyers  खरीदें  the debt at a percentage of its value , then attempt to collect it .
प्रत्येक देश रै इसके अपना नियम और regulations regarding उन्हें .
Cannabis flower  साथ  visible trichomes
कैनबिस , भी ज्ञात as मारिजुआना ( इससे the मैक्सिकन स्पेनी marihuana ) , और by अन्य names , is a तैयारी of the कैनबिस संयंत्र intended लिये उपयोग as a psychoactive ड्रग और as आयुर्विज्ञान .
Pharmacologically , the  प्रिंसिपल psychoactive  constituent of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) ; it is one of 483 known compounds in the plant , including at least 84 other cannabinoids , such as cannabidiol ( CBD ) , cannabinol ( CBN ) , tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ) .
and cannabigerol ( CBG   ) .
This is a list of American football quarterbacks who have started for the Washington Redskins , as well as its predecessors the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936  ) , in the  National Football League ( NFL ) .
The Washington Redskins franchise was originally founded in Boston , Massachusetts as the Boston Braves  , named after the  local baseball franchise .
The  नाम थी  changed the following year to the Redskins .
In 1937 , the  मताधिकार  moved to Washington , D.C .
Of the 49 Redskins starting quarterbacks , two have been inducted into the Pro  फ़ुटबॉल हॉल  of Fame : Sammy Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen .
Robert Griffin III  2012-present
Jason  कैम्पबेल  2005-2009
Mark Burnell  2004-2007
Mark  rypien  1986-1993
Joe  theismann  1974-1985
Sammy  baugh  1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st SFOD-D ) , popularly known as Delta Force , is one of the United  राज्य ' चार  secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units .
It was formerly listed as the   Combat Applications Group by the Department of Defense but has since been officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ) .
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively supported  by  USASOC , it falls under the operational control of the Joint Special Operations Command .
Delta Force and its Navy counterpart , the Naval Special Warfare Development Group , are the United   States military 's primary counter-terrorism units .
Delta Force 's  प्राथमिक कार्य हैं counter-terrorism , सीधा कार्रवाई , और नेशनल हस्तक्षेप परिचालन , हालांकि it is an अत्यधिक बहुमुखी समूह सक्षम of conducting अनेक प्रकार of गुप्त मिशन , सहित , लकिन नहीं सीमित to , बंधक छुटकारा और छापे .
The Central Intelligence Agency 's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) often works with – and recruits – operators  from Delta  Force .
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay , in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle  ,  and thereby transforms ( or 'decays ' ) into an atom with a mass number 4 less and atomic number 2 less .
Many  अन्य प्रकार  of decays are possible .
Radioactive decay , also known as nuclear decay or  radioactivity  , is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting particles of ionizing radiation .
A material that spontaneously emits this kind of  विकिरण  — which includes the emission of energetic alpha particles , beta particles , and gamma rays — is considered radioactive .
There are many different types  of  radioactive decay ( see table below ) .
A decay , or loss of energy , results when an atom with one type of nucleus , called the parent radionuclide , transforms to an atom with a nucleus in a different state , or to a different nucleus containing different numbers  of protons and  neutrons .
Either of  ये  products is named the daughter nuclide .
In some  decays the जनक और बेटी हैं अलग रासायनिक तत्व , और यूँ the क्षय प्रक्रम परिणाम in नाभिकीय transmutation ( सृष्टि of an अणु of a नई तत्व ) .
The first decay processes to be discovered were alpha decay ,  बीटा क्षय , और  gamma decay .
Alpha decay occurs when the  केंद्रक ejects  an alpha particle ( helium nucleus ) .
This is the most common process of emitting nucleons , but in rarer types of  decays  , nuclei can eject protons , or specific nuclei of other elements ( in the process called cluster decay ) .
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an electron or positron and a type of neutrino , in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the  other  way around .
The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron , converting a proton into a neutron (  इलेक्ट्रॉन  capture ) .
All of  ये प्रक्रियाओं  result in nuclear transmutation .
By contrast , there exist radioactive decay  प्रक्रियाओं  that do not result in transmutation .
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in gamma decay  , or  used to eject an orbital electron by interaction with the excited nucleus in a process called internal conversion .
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons , and this results in a change in an element from   one isotope to another .
One type of  रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय  results in products which are not defined , but appear in a range of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus .
This decay is called  spontaneous  fission .
This decay happens when a large unstable nucleus spontaneously splits into two ( and occasionally three ) smaller daughter nuclei , and usually emits gamma rays , neutrons , or other  अणु  as a consequence .
Radioactive decay is a  stochastic  ( i.e. , random ) process at the level of single atoms , in that , according to quantum theory , it is impossible to predict when a particular atom will decay .
However , the chance that a given atom will decay   is constant over time .
For a large number of atoms , the decay rate for the collection is   computable from the measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ) .
Waxing   is a form of semi-permanent hair removal which removes the hair from the root .
New hair will not grow back in the previously waxed area for  दो to  eight weeks , although some people will start to see regrowth in only a week .
Almost any area of the body can be waxed , including eyebrows , face , bikini area , legs , arms , back ,  उदर और  feet .
There are many types of waxing  उपयुक्त  for removing unwanted hair .
Strip waxing is accomplished by spreading a wax thinly   over the skin .
A cloth or paper strip is then pressed on the top and ripped off the  दिशा  of hair growth .
This removes  the  wax along with the hair .
Strip wax can   also be made at home using lemon juice , water , sugar and honey .
Hot waxing  utilizes hot  wax ( as opposed to strip wax ) .
In this case , the wax is applied somewhat thickly and with no cloth or  पेपर  strips .
The wax then hardens when it cools , thus allowing the easy removal by a  चिकित्सक  without the aid of cloths .
This waxing method is very  फायदेमंद  to people who have sensitive skin .
Wall painting ( 1st century AD ) from Pompeii  depicting  a multigenerational banquet
Ancient Roman  संस्कृति existed throughout  the almost 1200-year history of the civilization of Ancient Rome .
The term refers to the culture of the Roman Republic , later the Roman Empire , which , at its peak , covered  an area  from Lowland Scotland and Morocco to the Euphrates .
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome , its famed seven hills , and its monumental structures such as the Flavian Amphitheatre ( now  called the  Colosseum ) , the Forum of Trajan , and the Pantheon .
The city also had several theaters , gymnasiums  ,  and many taverns , baths , and brothels .
Throughout the territory under ancient Rome 's control , residential architecture ranged from very modest houses to country villas , and  in the  capital city of Rome , there were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill , from which the word palace is derived .
The vast majority of the population lived in the city center  , packed  into insulae ( apartment blocks ) .
the नगर of रोम थी the largest megalopolis of कि समय , साथ a जनसांख्यिकी कि may खूब have exceeded एक लाख लोगों , साथ a ऊँची समाप्त अनुमान of 3.6 लाख और a कम समाप्त अनुमान of 450,000 .
Historical estimates  indicate कि around 30 प्रतिशत of the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत  the city 's jurisdiction lived in innumerable urban centers , with population of at least 10,000 and several military settlements , a very high rate of urbanization by pre-industrial standards .
The most urbanized part of the Empire was Italy , which had an estimated rate of urbanization of 32 % , the   same rate of urbanization of England in 1800 .
Most Roman towns and cities  had a  forum , temples and the same type of buildings , on a smaller scale , as found in Rome .
The large urban population required an endless supply of food which was a complex logistical task ,  सहित acquiring , transporting  , storing and distribution of food for Rome and other urban centers .
Italian farms supplied vegetables  and  fruits , but fish and meat were luxuries .
Aqueducts were built to bring water to urban centers and wine and oil were  आयातित इससे hispania  , Gaul and Africa .
There was a very large amount of  कॉमर्स  between the provinces of the Roman Empire , since its transportation technology was very efficient .
The average costs of transport and the technology  यहूद comparable साथ  18th-century Europe .
The later city of Rome did not fill  the space  within its ancient Aurelian walls until after 1870 .
Eighty percent of the population under the jurisdiction of ancient Rome lived in the countryside in settlements with less than  10 thousand  inhabitants .
Landlords generally resided in cities and their estates were left in the care of farm  प्रबंधक  .
The plight of rural slaves was generally worse than their  counterparts  working in urban aristocratic households .
To stimulate a higher labor productivity most landlords freed a large number of slaves and many received  wages  .
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in one small farm hut in Egypt , while six families owned a  सिंगल  olive tree . '' .
ऐसे a ग्रामीण  environment continued to induce migration of population to urban centers until the early 2nd century , when the urban population stopped growing and started to decline .
Starting in the middle of the 2nd century BC , private Greek culture was increasingly in ascendancy , in spite of tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative  moralists  .
By the time of Augustus , cultured Greek household slaves taught the Roman young (  sometimes भी the लड़कियों ) ; शेफ़  , decorators , secretaries , doctors , and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East .
यूनानी sculptures सुशोभित hellenistic लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the palatine or in the विला , or यहूद imitated in रोमन मूर्तिकला गज by यूनानी स्लेव .
The Roman  भोजन  preserved in the cookery books ascribed to Apicius is essentially Greek .
Roman writers disdained Latin for a cultured Greek   style .
Only in law   and governance was the Italic nature of Rome 's accretive culture supreme .
Against this human background , both the urban and rural setting , one of history 's most influential  सभ्यताओं took आकार  , leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today .
James Joseph `` Duffy '' Waldorf , Jr. ( born August 20 , 1962 ) is an  अमरीकी  professional golfer .
Glass   bottles ( for cucumber slices ) on shipping pallets
A  सोवियत  mayonnaise jar
A modern ``  फ्रेंच  Kilner '' jar
कांच उत्पादन involves दो प्रमुख विधि – the फ्लैश कांच प्रक्रम , जिससे produces चादर कांच , और glassblowing जिससे produces बोतलों और अन्य containers  .
A season is a subdivision of the year , marked by changes in weather , ecology , and hours of  daylight  .
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth  around the सूर्य और  the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution .
In temperate and polar regions , the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface , variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to  migrate  , and plants to be dormant .
During May , June and July , the northern hemisphere is exposed to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere  चेहरों  the sun .
The same is true of the  दक्षिणी गोलार्ध  in November , December and January .
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky during the summer  महीने  which increases the solar flux .
However , due to seasonal lag , June , July and August are the hottest months  in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध  and December , January and February are the hottest months in the southern hemisphere .
In temperate and subpolar regions , generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ) , summer ( estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and  शीत  ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the  परंपरागत  four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet , or monsoon ) season  और the शुष्क ऋतु  , and in some tropical areas , a cool or mild season .
In some parts of the world , special `` seasons '' are loosely   defined based on important events such as a hurricane season , tornado season or a wildfire season .
The six  ecological  seasons
The four calendar seasons , depicted in an ancient Roman   mosaic from Tunisia
The Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14 , 1861 ) was the bombardment and surrender of  फोर्ट sumter , निकट चार्ल्सटन  , South Carolina , that started the American Civil War .
Following  घोषणाओं of secession  by seven Southern states , South Carolina demanded that the U.S. Army abandon its facilities in Charleston Harbor .
On December 26 , 1860 , U.S. Major Robert Anderson surreptitiously moved his small command from the indefensible Fort Moultrie on Sullivan 's Island   to Fort Sumter , a substantial fortress controlling the entrance of Charleston Harbor .
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson , using the  निहत्थे व्यापारी जलयान  Star of the West , failed when it was fired upon by shore batteries on January 9 , 1861 .
दक्षिण कैरोलिना अधिकारियों तब जब्त सब संघीय प्रॉपर्टी in the चार्ल्सटन क्षेत्रफल , मगर लिये फोर्ट sumter .
During the early months of 1861 , the situation around Fort Sumter  increasingly began to  resemble a siege .
In March , Brig . Gen. P. G. T.  beauregard , the पहला  general officer of the newly formed Confederate States of America , was placed in command of Confederate forces in Charleston .
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening  of  batteries around Charleston harbor aimed at Fort Sumter .
Conditions   in the fort grew dire as the Union soldiers rushed to complete the installation of additional guns .
एंडरसन थी  short of men , food , and supplies .
The  resupply of फोर्ट  Sumter became the first crisis of the administration of President Abraham Lincoln .
He notified the Governor of South Carolina , Francis W. Pickens , that he was sending supply ships , which resulted in an ultimatum from  the  Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately .
Major Anderson refused to  आत्मसमर्पण  .
Beginning   at 4:30 a.m. on April 12 , the Confederates bombarded the fort from artillery batteries surrounding the harbor .
Although the Union  garrison  returned fire , they were significantly outgunned and , after 34 hours , Major Anderson agreed to evacuate .
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of this engagement , although a gun explosion during the surrender  ceremonies on April 14 caused  two Union deaths .
Following the battle , there was widespread support from both North and South for further  सैन्य  action .
Lincoln 's immediate call for 75,000 volunteers to suppress the rebellion resulted in an additional  four  southern slave states also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy .
The Civil War  था  begun .
3G  , छोटी  for third Generation , is the third generation of mobile telecommunications technology .
3G telecommunication networks support services that provide an information transfer rate  of at  least 200 kbit/s .
However , many services advertised as 3G provide  उच्चतर गति  than the minimum technical requirements for a 3G service .
हाल 3g रिलीज , प्रायः denoted 3.5g और 3.75g , भी provide मोबाईल ब्रॉडबैंड अभिगम of अनेक mbit/s to स्मार्टफ़ोन और मोबाईल modems in लैपटॉप कंप्यूटर  .
3G finds application in wireless voice telephony , mobile Internet access , fixed wireless Internet access , video calls  and  mobile TV .
`` Mazel Tov ! ''  लिखा  on a wine glass tag
Traditionally , after the groom  ब्रेक  the glass , the guests shout `` Mazel Tov ! `` .
A birthday  केक , आइस्ड साथ  the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ) , as is often done in Israel .
Here  the  phrase is written in Hebrew cursive .
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' ( Hebrew / Yiddish : `` מזל טוב '' , Hebrew :  ``  mazal tov '' ; Yiddish : `` mazel tov '' ; lit .
`` good  लक  '' ) is a phrase used to express congratulations for a happy and significant occasion or event .
Hepatitis C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the liver ,  caused by  the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) .
The infection is often asymptomatic , but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver and ultimately to  cirrhosis , जिससे is generally apparent बाद  many years .
In some cases , those with cirrhosis will go on to develop liver failure ,  जिगर कर्कट or life-threatening  esophageal and gastric varices .
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood contact associated with intravenous drug use , poorly  sterilized चिकित्सा  equipment and transfusions .
An estimated  130–200  million people worldwide are infected with .
The existence of ( originally `` non- A non- B hepatitis  ''  ) was postulated in the 1970s and proven in 1989 .
only infects humans  और chimpanzees  .
The virus  persists  in the liver in about 85 % of those infected .
इस persistent संक्रमण can be treated साथ दवा : the मानक चिकित्सा is a संयोजन of peginterferon और ribavirin , साथ either boceprevir or telaprevir added in कुछ मामले .
Overall , 50–80 % of people  treated  are cured .
Those who develop cirrhosis or liver  कर्कट may आवश्यकता  a liver transplant .
is the leading cause of liver transplantation , though the virus usually recurs  बाद प्रत्यारोपण  .
no टीका विरूद्ध is उपलब्धियाँ  .
A flexible spending account ( FSA ) , also known as a flexible spending arrangement , is one of a number of tax-advantaged financial  accounts that  can be set up through a cafeteria plan of an employer in the United States .
An FSA  allows an कर्मचारी  to set aside a portion of earnings to pay for qualified expenses as established in the cafeteria plan , most commonly for medical expenses but often for dependent care or other expenses .
Money  deducted इससे an कर्मचारी  's pay into an FSA is not subject to payroll taxes , resulting in substantial payroll tax savings .
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is that funds not used by the end of the plan year are lost to the employee  , known as the `` use it or lose  it '' rule .
The most common type of flexible spending account , the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA ) , is similar to a health savings  account (  HSA ) or a health reimbursement account ( HRA ) .
However , while HSAs and HRAs are almost exclusively used as components of a consumer driven health  परवाह योजना , चिकित्सा fsas हैं  commonly offered with more traditional health plans as well .
In addition , funds in a health savings account are not lost when the plan  साल is over ,  unlike funds in an FSA .
Paper forms or an FSA debit card , also  ज्ञात as a flexcard  , may be used to access the account funds .
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a U.S. state  स्तिथ  in the Southeastern United States .
Tennessee is the 36th  सबसे  extensive and the 17th most populous of the 50 United States .
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and Virginia to the north , North Carolina to the east , Georgia , Alabama , and Mississippi to the south , and  अरकंसास और मिसौरी  to the west .
The Appalachian  kyu dominate  the eastern part of the state , and the Mississippi River forms the state 's western border .
Tennessee 's capital and second  largest  city is Nashville , which has a population of 609,644 .
Memphis is the state 's largest city , with a population  of  652,050 .
The state of Tennessee  is rooted in the watauga संघ , a 1772 frontier अनुबंध generally regarded as the पहला संवैधानिक सरकारी वेस्ट of the appalachians .
कया is अभी टेनेसी थी initially भाग of उत्तर कैरोलिना , और बाद भाग of the दक्षिणपश्चिम territory  .
Tennessee was admitted to the Union as the 16th  राज्य on जून  1 , 1796 .
Tennessee was  the पिछला राज्य to छोड़  the Union and join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. Civil War in 1861 , and the first state to be readmitted to the Union at the end of the war .
Tennessee  सुसज्जित  more soldiers for the Confederate Army than any other state , and more soldiers for the Union Army than any other Southern state .
In the 20th century , Tennessee transitioned from an agrarian economy to a more diversified economy , aided at times by federal entities  ऐसे  as the Tennessee Valley Authority .
In the early 1940s , the city of Oak Ridge was established to house the Manhattan Project 's uranium enrichment facilities , helping to build   the world 's first atomic bomb .
Tennessee has played a critical role in the development of many forms of American popular music , including  rock and roll ,  blues , country , and rockabilly .
Beale Street in Memphis is considered by many to be the birthplace of the blues , with musicians such as W.C .  Handy  performing in its clubs as early as 1909 .
Memphis was also home to Sun Records , where musicians such as Elvis Presley , Isaac Hayes , Johnny Cash , Carl   Perkins , Jerry Lee Lewis , Roy Orbison , and Charlie Rich began their recording careers , and where rock and roll took shape in the 1950s .
The  1927 विक्टर रिकॉर्डिंग सत्र in ब्रिस्टल generally चिह्नित the शुरूआत of the देश म्यूज़िक विधा और the वृद्धि of the ग्रैंड ओले opry in the 1930s helped मेक नैशविले the बीच of the देश म्यूज़िक रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग .
Three bricks and mortar   museums recognize Tennessee 's role in nurturing various forms of popular music : the Memphis Rock N ' Soul Museum , the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville , and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson .
In addition , the Rockabilly Hall of Fame , an online site recognizing the development of rockabilly in which Tennessee played a  निर्णायक भूमिका , is  based in Nashville .
Tennessee 's major industries include   agriculture , manufacturing , and tourism .
Poultry , soybeans , and cattle are the state   's primary agricultural products , and major manufacturing exports include chemicals , transportation equipment , and electrical equipment .
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park , the nation 's most visited national park , is headquartered in the eastern  भाग of the राज्य ,  and a section of the Appalachian Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border .
Other major tourist attractions include the Tennessee Aquarium in Chattanooga ,  the sunsphere in knoxville ,  Dollywood in Pigeon Forge , the Parthenon , the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum , and Ryman Auditorium in Nashville , and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis .
One design  रूपांतर  of a cock ring .
A cock ring is a ring that can be placed around a man 's penis , usually at the base , primarily to slow the flow of blood from the erect penile tissue , thus maintaining an  स्तंभन  for a much longer period of time .
Cock rings can be worn around just the  शिश्न or दोनो  the penis and scrotum , or just the scrotum alone , though this is usually called a testicle cuff .
Rings can be made of a variety of different materials , most commonly leather , rubber , or silicone , though nylon and metal are  भी प्रयुक्त either as  the main component or part of the closure .
The term  cock  ring is sometimes used as a synonym for a Prince Albert piercing , a piercing of the penis that is usually , though not always , a metal ring .
When used in cases of erectile dysfunction they are known by various names such as `` erection ring '' and  `` टेंशन  ring '' .
The headquarters of Major League Baseball at 245 Park  एवेन्यू  , Midtown Manhattan , New York City , USA .
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a professional baseball league , consisting of teams that  खेल in the नेशनल  League and the American League .
Dating to 1876 and 1901 respectively , the two leagues merged in 2000 into a single organization led by the Commissioner of Baseball , after 100 years as  separate legal entities  .
MLB constitutes one of the major professional sports leagues of the United States  and  Canada .
It is composed of 30 teams  — 29 in  the United States and one in Canada .
Teams in MLB play 162 games each season over six months (  अप्रैल through  September ) .
Five  टीमों in प्रत्येक लीग अग्रिम to a four-round postseason टूर्नामेंट कि culminates in the संसार श्रेणी , a best-of-seven-games चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी between the दो लीग champions जिससे तिथियाँ to 1903 .
The organization oversees many minor-league baseball leagues which operate about 240  टीमों संबद्ध  with the major-league clubs .
With the International Baseball Federation , the league also manages the international  संसार बेसबॉल क्लासिक टूर्नामेंट  .
MLB  रै the  highest season attendance of any sports league in the world with nearly 75 million spectators in 2012 .
Delaware ( ) is a U.S.  राज्य स्तिथ on the  Atlantic Coast in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States .
It is  bordered to the दक्षिण  and west by Maryland , to the northeast by New Jersey , and to the north by Pennsylvania .
The state takes its name from Thomas West , 3rd  सामन्त de la warr  , an English nobleman and Virginia 's first colonial governor , after whom what is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named .
Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the second smallest , the sixth least  populous  , but the sixth most densely populated of the fifty United States .
Delaware is divided into three counties  .
From north to south , these three counties are  नई किला  , Kent , and Sussex .
जबकि the दक्षिणी दो काउंटी have historically महरूम predominantly agricultural , नई किला काउंटी रै महरूम अधिक industrialized .
Before its coastline was explored by Europeans in the 16th century , Delaware was inhabited by several groups of Native Americans , including the Lenape in the  उत्तर  and Nanticoke in the south .
It was initially colonized by Dutch traders at Zwaanendael ,  स्तिथ निकट the उपस्थित कस्बा  of Lewes , in 1631 .
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution and on December 7 , 1787 , became the first state to ratify the Constitution of the United States , thereby becoming known  as The First  State .
Energy  परिवर्तन  in Energy Systems Language
Energy  परिवर्तन or उर्जा  conversion is the process of changing one form of energy to another .
In physics , the term energy   describes the capacity to produce certain changes within a system , without regard to limitations in transformation imposed by Entropy .
Changes in total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding or subtracting energy from them , as energy is a quantity which is conserved , according to the first  law of  thermodynamics .
According to special relativity , changes in the energy of systems will also  coincide साथ  changes in the system 's mass , and the total amount of mass of a system is a measure of its energy .
Energy in a system may  be रूपांतरित  so that it resides in a different state , or a different type of energy .
Energy in many  राज्य  may be used to do many varieties of physical work .
Energy may be used in natural processes or machines , or else to provide some service to society (  such as heat ,  light , or motion ) .
For example , an internal combustion engine converts the  संभावित रासायनिक उर्जा  in gasoline and oxygen into heat , which is then transformed into the propulsive energy ( kinetic energy that moves a vehicle ) .
A solar cell converts solar radiation into electrical energy that can then be used to light a  बल्ब or  power a computer .
The generic name for a  यंत्र जिससे  converts energy from one form to another , is a transducer .
In general ,  सबसे प्रकार  of energy , save for thermal energy , may be converted efficiently to any other kind of energy .
Sometimes this occurs with an efficiency of essentially 100 % , such as when potential energy is converted to kinetic  उर्जा  as an object falls in vacuum , or when it orbits nearer or farther from another object , in space .
Conversion of other types of energies to  heat  may also occurs with nearly perfect efficiency ( many types of friction do this ) .
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even  लिये पृथक प्रणालियों ) occur जब उर्जा रै already  been partly distributed among many available quantum states for a collection of particles , which are freely allowed to explore any state of momentum and position ( phase space ) .
In  ऐसे हालातों , a  measure called Entropy , or evening-out of energy distribution in such states , dictates that future states of the system must be of at least equal evenness in energy distribution .
( There is no way , taking the universe as a whole , to collect  उर्जा into कम  states , once it has spread to them ) .
A consequence of this requirement is that there   are limitations to the efficiency with which thermal energy can be converted to other kinds of energy , since thermal energy in equilibrium at a given temperature already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states .
ऐसे उर्जा is sometimes माना `` degraded उर्जा , '' क्युकी it is नहीं entirely  usable .
The second law  of ऊष्मागतिकी is a रास्ता of  stating that , for this reason , thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy with efficiencies approaching 100 % , only if the entropy ( even-ness or disorder ) of the universe is increased by other means , to compensate for the decrease in entropy associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content .
Otherwise , only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and thus , useful work ) , since the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a lower temperature , in such a way that the increase in Entropy for this process more than compensates for the entropy decrease associated with transformation  of the rest of the heat into other types of  energy .
The National Hockey League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major  पेशेवर बर्फ  hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs , of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New York City , the NHL is widely considered to be the premier professional ice hockey  लीग in the संसार , और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर  sports leagues in the United States and Canada .
The  स्टेनली  Cup , the oldest professional sports trophy in North America , is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season .
The league was organized on November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal , Quebec , Canada , after the  बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन of इसके  predecessor organization , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started with four teams and , through a series of expansions , contractions , and relocations , the league is now composed of 30  क्रियाशील franchises  .
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada , although the league has now been binational since 1924 when it  विस्तारित  into the United States .
After a labour  विवाद कि  led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season , the league resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed  record highs in  terms of sponsorships , attendance , and television audiences .
The NHL draws many  अत्यधिक skilled  players from all over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries .
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL , over the past four plus decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967 ,  और the increased उपलब्धता  of highly skilled European players .
This is the complete list of the ratified and unratified amendments to the United States Constitution which received   the approval of the United States Congress .
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified since the original signing of the Constitution , the first ten of which  हैं ज्ञात collectively  as the Bill of Rights .
The procedure for  amending the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution is governed by Article V of the original text .
वहीँ have महरूम अनेक अन्य प्रस्ताव लिये amendments to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान introduced in कॉंग्रेस , लकिन नहीं सुपुर्द to the  states .
Before an amendment can take effect , it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a  convention ( known as an Article  V convention ) called by two-thirds of the states , and ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof , the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal .
To date , no convention for proposing amendments has been called by the states  , and only once—in  1933 for the ratification of the twenty-first amendment —has the convention method of ratification been employed .
FMR LLC (  वफ़ादारी  Management and Research ) or Fidelity Investments is an American multinational financial services corporation .
It is one of the  largest परस्पर निधि  and financial services groups in the world .
It was founded in 1946 and serves North  अमरीकी निवेशकों  .
Fidelity Ventures  is इसके venture  capital arm .
Fidelity International Limited ( FIL ) , was an international affiliate founded in 1969 ,  सेवारत सबसे देशों  in the rest of the world .
In September 2011 ,  फील  was rebranded as 'Fidelity Worldwide Investment ' .
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds , provides fund distribution and investment advice services , as well as providing  छूट brokerage सेवाएं ,  retirement services , wealth management , securities execution and clearance , life insurance and a number of other services .
June 2006 was  the  sixth month of that year .
It began on a Thursday and ended after 30 days on a Friday The following events   also occurred during the month:
समाजशास्त्र is the  scientific study of human society and its origins , development , organizations , and institutions .
It is a social science which uses various  विधि of अनुभवजन्य  investigation and critical analysis to develop a body of knowledge about human social activity , structures , and functions .
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be applied directly  to  social policy and welfare , while others focus primarily on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes .
Subject matter  सीमाएँ इससे the सूक्ष्म स्तर  of individual agency and interaction to the macro level of systems and the social structure .
The traditional focuses of sociology include social stratification , social class , culture , race and ethnicity , gender and sexuality  ,  social mobility , religion , secularization , law , and deviance .
As all spheres  of इंसान कार्यकलाप हैं प्रभावित by the interplay  between social structure and individual agency , sociology has gradually expanded its focus to further subjects , such as health , medical , military and penal institutions , the Internet , environmental sociology , political economy and the role of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge .
The range  of  social scientific methods has also expanded .
सोशल  researchers draw upon a variety of qualitative and quantitative techniques .
The linguistic and cultural turns of the mid-twentieth century led to increasingly interpretative , hermeneutic , and philosophic approaches  to the विश्लेषण  of society .
Conversely , recent decades have seen the  rise  of new analytically , mathematically and computationally rigorous techniques , such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis .
समाजशास्त्र चाहिए नहीं be उलझन साथ विभिन्न सामान्य सोशल अध्ययन पाठ्यक्रम जिससे भालू छोटी संबंध to समाजशास्त्रीय सिद्धान्त or सोशल विज्ञान  research methodology .
Thunder is the sound caused by  बिजली  .
Depending on the nature of the lightning and distance of the listener , thunder can range from a sharp , loud crack to a long , low rumble (  brontide )  .
the अचानक बढ़ाएँ in दबाव और तापमान इससे बिजली produces रैपिड विस्तार of the एयर surrounding और भीतर a bolt of बिजली  .
In turn , this expansion of air creates a sonic shock wave , similar to a sonic boom , which  produces the sound of thunder ,  often referred to as a clap , crack , or peal of thunder .
The distance of the lightning can be calculated by the listener based on the time interval from when the lightning is seen to when the  ध्वनि is सुना  .
Palma ( , , ) , in full Palma de Mallorca , is the major city and port on the island of Majorca (  mallorca  ) and capital city of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands in Spain .
The names Ciutat de Mallorca ( City of Majorca ) and Ciutat ( City ) were used  पहले the युद्ध  of the Spanish Succession and are still used by people in Majorca .
however , the  official name was Mallorca , the same as the island .
It is situated on the south coast of the island   on the Bay of Palma .
As of the 2009 census , the population of the city of Palma proper was 401,270 , and the population of the entire urban area was 517,285 ,  रैंकिंग as  the twelfth largest urban area of Spain .
Almost half of the total  जनसांख्यिकी  of Majorca live in Palma .
The  cabrera  Archipelago , though widely separated from Palma proper , is administratively considered part of the municipality .
Its airport , Son Sant Joan , serves over 22 million passengers  प्रत्येक साल  .
the marivent  Palace was offered by the city to the then Prince Juan Carlos I of Spain .
The royals have since spent their summer   holidays in Palma .
Luthor redirects  यहाँ  .
For other uses , see   Luther ( disambiguation ) .
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor is a fictional character , a  supervillain appearing  in comic books published by DC Comics .
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman , and as a high-status supervillain , has also come into conflict with Batman and other superheroes in   the DC Universe .
Created by  जेरी siegel  and Joe Shuster , the character first appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( April 1940 ) .
Luthor is described as `` a  power-mad  , evil scientist '' of high intelligence and incredible technological prowess .
Luthor 's goals typically center on killing Superman , the   foremost obstacle to achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal goals .
despite periodically wearing a संचालित बहि , luthor रै traditionally lacked superpowers or a डुअल पहचान .
The character was originally depicted as a mad scientist who , in the vein of pulp novels , wreaks havoc on the world with his futuristic   weaponry .
in उसके earliest  appearances , Luthor is shown with a full head of red hair .
Despite this , the character later became   hairless as the result of an artist 's mistake .
A 1960  स्टोरी by जेरी siegel  expanded upon Luthor 's origin and motivations , revealing him to be a childhood friend of Superman 's who lost his hair when a fire destroyed his laboratory ; Luthor vowed revenge .
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths , the character   was re-imagined as a Machiavellian industrialist and white-collar criminal , even briefly serving as President of the United States .
In recent years , various writers have revived Luthor 's mad  वैज्ञानिक  persona from the 1940s .
The character was ranked as the 8th  महानतम  Villain by Wizard on its 100 Greatest Villains of All Time list .
ign  's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time ranked Luthor as # 4 .
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic book critic Peter Sanderson , one of a few genre-crossing villains whose  adventures लो प्लेस  `` in a world in which the ordinary laws of nature are slightly suspended '' ; characters such as Professor Moriarty , Count Dracula , Hannibal Lecter , Doctor Doom , and Darth Vader , also fit this description .
मार्टिन लूथर किंग , jr. दिन is a संयुक्त राज्य संघीय अवकाश अंकन the जन्मदिवस of रेव . dr. मार्टिन लूथर किंग  , Jr .
It is observed on the third Monday of January each year , which is around the time of King 's birthday ,  जनवरी  15 .
The floating holiday is similar to holidays  set  under the Uniform Monday Holiday Act , though the act predated the establishment of Martin Luther King , Jr. Day by 15 years .
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent activism in the civil rights movement , which successfully  protested जातिगत पक्षपात in संघीय  and state law .
The campaign for  a संघीय  holiday in King 's honor began soon after his assassination in 1968 .
Ronald Reagan signed  the holiday into  law in 1983 , and it was first observed on January 20 , 1986 .
At  first  , some states resisted observing the holiday as such , giving it alternative names or combining it with other holidays .
It was officially observed in  सब  50 states for the first time in 2000 .
The  कैमरा फोन समाधान  allows instant sharing of pictures .
As it  's स्वचालित और तत्काल , the  user does not have to use a cable or removable media to connect to a personal computer .
A camera phone is a mobile phone which is able to capture still  छायाचित्र  ( and usually video ) .
Since early in the 21st   century the majority of mobile phones in use are camera phones .
Most camera phones are  simpler  than separate digital cameras .
Their usual fixed focus lenses and  छोटी सेंसर  limit their performance in poor lighting .
Lacking a physical shutter  ,  most have a long shutter lag .
Flash , where  उपस्थित  , is usually weak .
Optical zoom and tripod  screws  are rare .
Some also lack a USB connection , removable memory card , or other way of transferring their pictures more quickly  than by  the phone 's inherent communication feature .
Some of the more expensive camera phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages , which apply most acutely in low light conditions and in any case have not inhibited  their  widespread use .
सबसे मॉडल लाइनों improve in ये प्रणाम प्रत्येक साल or दो .
Some , such as the Droid Incredible only  have  a menu choice to start an application program to activate the camera .
Others , such as the BlackBerry Storm 2 , Droid X , Motorola V980 and Nokia  5800  also have a separate camera button for quickness and convenience .
Windows Phones can be configured to operate as a camera even if  the फोन is asleep  .
Some camera phones are designed to resemble  पृथक low-end डिजिटल  compact cameras in appearance and to some extent in features and picture quality , and are branded as both mobile phones and cameras , including certain Sony phones .
The principal advantages of camera phones are cost and compactness ; indeed for a user who carries a mobile  phone  anyway , the additional size and cost are negligible .
Smartphones that are camera phones may run mobile applications to add  सामर्थ्य  such as geotagging and image stitching .
A few high end phones can use their touch screen to direct their camera to focus on a particular object in  the फ़ील्ड of दृश्य , giving  even an inexperienced user a degree of focus control exceeded only by seasoned photographers using manual focus .
`` Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow ? '' is a  1986 कॉमिक  book story featuring the DC Comics character of Superman .
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time , and soon to be retiring , Superman editor , Julius Schwartz , the story was  प्रकाशित in दो  parts , beginning in Superman # 423 and ending in Action Comics # 583 , both published in September 1986 .
The story was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan , in his final major contribution to the Superman titles , and was inked by George Pérez in the issue of Superman and   Kurt Schaffenberger in the issue of Action Comics .
The story was an imaginary tale which told the final story of the Silver Age Superman and his long history , which  थी होने  rebooted following the events of Crisis on Infinite Earths , before his modern introduction in the John Byrne series , The Man of Steel .
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long  इतिहास  of the character and to serve as a complete conclusion to his mythology .
The story is a frame story set ten years after Superman was last seen , where Lois Lane recounts the tale of the  समाप्त  of Superman 's career to a reporter from the Daily Planet .
Her story includes  numerous हिंसक हमले  against Superman by his enemies , the public revelation of his secret identity of Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him .
The story has been cited as one of the best stories of the  अक्षर of सुपरमैन , और आलोचकों  and audiences frequently choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published .
It is used as an example of how to close the long-time continuity of a comic  किताब  character .
The story 's legacy has endured with similar stories written as tributes  to it  .
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of Superman as the  man  of Tomorrow , and was used in the title of another Superman .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring car  , designed  and developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super Sport version of  the veyron  is the fastest street-legal production car in the world , with a top speed of .
The original version has a  शीर्ष गति  of .
It was named Car of the Decade ( 2000–2009 ) by the BBC television programme  शीर्ष  Gear .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best Car Driven  सब साल पुरस्कार  in 2005 .
On 6 April 2013 , Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron Grand   Sport Vitesse , reaching on average a top speed of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss , and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of Volkswagen , with much of the  अभियान्त्रिकी कार्य होने conducted अंतर्गत  the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A number of special  विसंगतियाँ  have been produced .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the ability to customize exterior and interiors colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application  on the marque 's  official website .
The institution of the Eucharist has been a key  theme  in the depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art , as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes painting .
`` At the Last Supper , on the  night he  was betrayed , our Savior instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of his Body and Blood . ''
( Catechism of the Catholic  गिरिजाघर  1323 )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass , that is , the Eucharist liturgy , and the bread and wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ , Lord and God , a  घोषणा प्रतिपादित by the परिषद of ट्रेंट साथ an  anathema against anyone who denied this .
Blessed Sacrament is a   devotional term used in the Roman Catholic Church to refer to the Eucharistic species ( the Body and Blood of Christ ) .
The following is a list of colleges and universities in the  u.S.  state of Louisiana .
A short story is a brief work of   literature , usually written in narrative prose .
Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century , the short story has grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy  characterization  .
at इसके सबसे prototypical  the short story features a small cast of named characters , and focuses on a self-contained incident with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood .
In so doing , short stories make use of plot , resonance , and other dynamic components to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote , yet to a far lesser degree than  a  novel .
While the short story is largely distinct from the novel ,  लेखक of दोनो  generally draw from a common pool of literary techniques .
Short  कहानियां have  no set length .
In terms of word count there  is no  official demarcation between an anecdote , a short story , and a novel .
बल्कि , the रूप 's पैरामीटर्स हैं दिए by the rhetorical और व्यावहारिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे a दिए स्टोरी is उत्पादित और माना , so कि कया constitutes a छोटी स्टोरी may differ between जाति , देशों  , eras , and commentators .
Like the novel , the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for publication , and the evolution of the form seems closely tied to the evolution of the publishing industry and  the सबमिशन  guidelines of its constituent houses .
The short story has been  माना  both an apprenticeship form preceding more lengthy works , and a crafted form in its own right , collected together in books of similar length , price , and distribution as novels .
Short story writers may define their works as part of the artistic and personal expression   of the form .
They may also attempt to resist  categorization  by genre and fixed form .
Area  कोड  in Michigan
Area code 810 is the telephone area code serving  eastern  Michigan .
The raccoon ( , Procyon lotor ) , sometimes spelled racoon , also known as the common raccoon , North American raccoon , northern raccoon and  colloquially as कून  , is a medium-sized mammal native to North America .
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid family , having  a  body length of and a body weight of .
Its grayish coat mostly consists of dense underfur which insulates  विरूद्ध  cold weather .
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features are its extremely dexterous front paws and its facial mask ,  जिससे हैं विषयवस्तु in the mythology  of several Native American tribes .
Raccoons are noted for their intelligence , with studies showing that they   are able to remember the solution to tasks for up to three years .
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon , which is usually nocturnal , consists of  परिचय  40 % invertebrates , 33 % plant foods , and 27 % vertebrates .
The original habitats of the raccoon are deciduous and mixed forests , but due to their adaptability they have extended their range to mountainous areas  ,  coastal marshes , and urban areas , where some homeowners consider them to be pests .
As a result of escapes and deliberate introductions in the mid-20th century , raccoons are now also distributed across the European mainland , the Caucasus region  and  Japan .
Though previously thought  to be एकान्त , वहीँ is  now evidence that raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior .
Related females often share a common area ,  जबकि unrelated  males live together in groups of up to four animals to maintain their positions against foreign males during the mating season , and other potential invaders .
Home range sizes vary anywhere from 3 hectares ( 7 acres ) for females in cities to 50 km2 ( 20 sq mi ) for  males in prairies  .
After a gestation period of about 65 days , two to five young , known as   `` kits '' , are born in spring .
The kits are subsequently raised by their mother until dispersion in  लेट पतन  .
Although captive raccoons have been known to live over 20 years , their average life expectancy  in the wild is only 1.8 to  3.1 years .
In many areas ,  शिकार और vehicular चोट  are the two most common causes of death .
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake , with an epicenter near the town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department ) , approximately west of  port-au-prince , हैती  's capital .
The earthquake occurred at 16:53 local time (  21:53  UTC ) on Tuesday , 12 January 2010 .
By 24 January , at  तनिक 52 aftershocks  measuring 4.5 or greater had been recorded .
An  अनुमानित  three million people were affected by the quake .
The highest   reliable death count was estimated at 220,000 .
Haitian  सरकारी  estimates were higher .
The government of  हैती अनुमानित  that 250,000 residences and 30,000 commercial buildings had collapsed or were severely damaged .
the भूकंप caused प्रमुख क्षति in port-au-prince , jacmel और अन्य settlements in the प्रदेश  .
अनेक notable लैंडमार्क इमारतें यहूद significantly क्षतिग्रस्त or नष्ट , सहित the अध्यक्षीय राजमहल , the नेशनल सभा भवन , the port-au-prince गिरजाघर , और the प्रमुख कारावास  .
Among those killed were Archbishop of Port-au-Prince Joseph Serge Miot , and opposition leader  micha gaillard  .
The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (  MINUSTAH  ) , located in the capital , collapsed , killing many , including the Mission 's Chief , Hédi Annabi .
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian aid , pledging funds and dispatching rescue and medical teams ,  इंजीनियर्स  and support personnel .
Communication systems , air , land , and sea transport facilities , hospitals , and electrical networks had been damaged by the earthquake , which hampered rescue and aid efforts ; confusion over who was in charge , air traffic congestion , and  समस्याएं साथ  prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work .
Port-au-Prince 's morgues were overwhelmed with tens of  हज़ारों  of bodies .
These had to be buried in  द्रव्यमान  graves .
As rescues  tailed बंद  , supplies , medical care and sanitation became priorities .
Delays in aid distribution  led  to angry appeals from aid workers and survivors , and looting and sporadic violence were observed .
On 22 January the United Nations noted that the emergency phase of the relief operation was drawing to a close , and on the following day the  Haitian  government officially called off the search for survivors .
मिस्टर ed is a fictional talking घोड़ा , originally appearing in छोटी कहानियां by वाल्टर R. ब्रूक्स , और बाद in an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न हालात कॉमेडी उत्पादित by filmways कि पहला aired in अनुप्रयोग इससे जनवरी 5 to जुलाई 2 , 1961 , और तब on सीबीएस इससे अक्तूबर 1  , 1961 to February 6 , 1966 .
The stars of the show were Mister Ed , a palomino horse who could `` talk '' , played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by former Western star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited for the entire length of the series ) , and his owner , an eccentric and enormously klutzy  , yet दोस्ताना , वास्तु नामित wilbur पोस्ट (  Alan Young ) .
Much of the program 's humor stemmed from the fact Mister Ed would speak only to  wilbur  , as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker .
Other running jokes centered on Wilbur 's character being a huge klutz and inadvertently causing harm  to  himself or others .
According to the show 's producer , Arthur Lubin  , Young was  chosen as the lead character because he `` just seemed like the sort of guy a horse would talk to '' .
lubin , a dost  of Mae West , scored a coup by persuading the screen icon to guest star in one episode .
In the United States ,  reruns  aired on Nick at Nite from March 3 , 1986 , to February 1 , 1993 .
Sister station TV Land also reran the show   from 1996–98 and again from 2003-06 .
The series is currently broadcast every   morning on This TV , along with Highway Patrol , and The Patty Duke Show .
It is also  फिलहाल  broadcast on Hallmark Movie Channel .
As of January 1 , 2011 , the first two  सीज़न of the  show are available on Hulu .
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up '' discussed in 1  thessalonians 4:17  , when the `` dead in Christ '' and `` we who are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the Lord in the air '' .
the पद `` rapture '' is प्रयुक्त in at तनिक दो होश .
In the pre-tribulation view , a group of people will be left behind on earth after another group literally leaves `` to meet   the Lord in the air . ''
This is now the most common use of the term , especially among fundamentalist Christians   and in the United States .
The other , older use of the term `` Rapture '' is simply as a synonym for   the final resurrection generally , without a belief that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
This distinction is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in religious education , but might use the older and more general sense of the   word `` rapture '' in referring to what happens during the final resurrection .
There are many views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return (  सहित whether it होगा occur in एक  event or two ) , and various views regarding the destination of the aerial gathering described in 1 Thessalonians 4 .
Denominations such as Roman Catholics , Orthodox Christians , Lutheran Christians , and Reformed Christians believe in a rapture only in the sense of a general  final  resurrection , when Christ returns a single time .
वे do नहीं मानना  that a group of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth Brethren , and popularized in the United States in the early  20th सदी by the चौड़ी परिसंचरण  of the Scofield Reference Bible .
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February 6 , 1985 ) is an American professional basketball player with  the ब्रुकलीन  Nets .
The  philistine  cities of Gaza , Ashdod , Ashkelon , Ekron , and Gath
The  philistines ( , , , or ; , plištim  ) , Pleshet or Peleset , were a people who as part of the Sea Peoples appeared in the southern coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron Age ( circa 1175 BC ) , most probably from the Aegean region .
According to the Bible , they ruled the five city-states ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of Gaza , Ashkelon , Ashdod , Ekron and Gath , from Wadi  गाजा in the  south to the Yarqon River in the north , but with no fixed border to the east .
The Bible paints them as the Kingdom of Israel 's  सबसे खतरनाक  enemy .
Originating somewhere in the Aegean , their population was around 25,000 in the 12th century BC , rising to a peak of 30,000  in the 11th century BC ,  of which the Aegean element was not more than half the total , and perhaps much less .
Nothing is known for certain about the original language or  भाषाएं  of the Philistines , however they were not part of the Semitic Canaanite population .
There  is  some limited evidence in favour of the assumption that the Philistines were Indo-European-speakers either from Greece and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor .
Philistine-related words found  in the  Bible are not Semitic , and can in some cases , with reservations , be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots .
By the beginning of the 1st Millennium BCE they had adopted the general  canaanite  language of the region .
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple choice test , administered by the United States Military Entrance Processing Command , used to determine qualification  for  enlistment in the United States armed forces .
It is often  offered to अमरीकी ऊँची  school students when they are in the 10th , 11th and 12th grade , though anyone eligible for enlistment may take it .
Although the test is administered by the military , it is not ( and never has been ) a requirement  कि a  test-taker with a qualifying score enlist in the armed forces .
In financial accounting , a balance sheet or statement of financial position is a summary of the financial balances of a sole proprietorship , a business partnership  ,  a corporation or other business organization , such as an LLC or an LLP .
Assets , liabilities and ownership equity are listed as of a specific date , such as the end  of इसके  financial year .
A balance sheet is often  वर्णित as a ``  snapshot of a company 's financial condition '' .
Of the four basic financial statements , the balance sheet is the only statement  which  applies to a single point in time of a business ' calendar year .
A standard  कम्पनी संतुलन चादर  has three parts : assets , liabilities and ownership equity .
The main categories of assets are usually listed first ,  और typically  in order of liquidity .
Assets are followed by the  देनदारी  .
The difference between the assets and the liabilities is known as equity or the net assets or the net worth  or पूंजी  of the company and according to the accounting equation , net worth must equal assets minus liabilities .
Another way to look at the same equation is that assets equals  देनदारी  plus owner 's equity .
Looking at the equation in this way shows how assets were financed  :  either by borrowing money ( liability ) or by using the owner 's money ( owner 's equity ) .
Balance sheets are usually presented with assets in one section and liabilities and net worth in the  अन्य  section with the two sections `` balancing . ''
A business operating entirely in cash can measure its profits by withdrawing the entire bank balance at the end of the period , plus   any cash in hand .
However , many businesses are not paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire  इमारतें और उपकरण  .
In other words : businesses have assets and so they can not , even if they want to , immediately turn these  into नकदी at the  end of each period .
Often , these businesses owe money to suppliers and to tax authorities , and the proprietors do not  withdraw सब उनके असली  capital and profits at the end of each period .
In other words   businesses also have liabilities .
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire , commonly   known as the .17 HMR , is a rimfire rifle cartridge developed by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002 .
It descended from the .22 Magnum by necking down the .22 Magnum case to take a .17 caliber  ( 4.5 mm ) गोली , और  it is more costly to shoot than traditional .22 caliber rimfire cartridges .
Commonly  loaded साथ a 17 अनाज ( 1.1 g ) गोली , it can उद्धार muzzle गतियाँ in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ) .
The Schaumburg Flyers were a professional baseball team based in Schaumburg , Illinois , in the United  राज्य  .
The Flyers were to be a charter member  of the North  American League , which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball , however , the team folded in March 2011 , before they began play in the NAL .
From the 1999 season to the 2010 season , the Flyers played their home games at  alexian  Field , near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway .
the टोली formerly निभाई in थंडर खाड़ी , ओंटारियो , जहाँ वे यहूद ज्ञात as the थंडर खाड़ी whiskey jacks  .
The team was originally a member of the Northern   League from 1993 to 2010 .
On July 27 , 2009 , the Flyers played host to Battle of the Sexes II , which pitted the Flyers against the National Pro Fastpitch  सॉफ्टबॉल  Champions , the Chicago Bandits .
Played by official softball rules , the game was seen by an overflow record crowd of 8,918 , and was won by the Bandits  4-2  .
In 1999 , the Flyers hired their  पहला  manager , Ron Kittle .
Kittle is best known for his playing days with the Chicago White Sox , and   former Chicago Cubs and White Sox player Greg Hibbard was the pitching coach .
During the early years of  the मताधिकार , kittle किया a श्रेणी of tv commercials to प्रचार the टोली , using the gimmick `` ma kittle . '' जहाँ he निभाई दोनो खुद और उसके `` ma . ''
The ads were successful at sparking some initial interest in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal  दूर प्रशंसक इससे  the nearby Kane County Cougars .
The ad mimicked the highly  कामयाब  Converse ads where Larry Johnson starred as both himself and `` Gramama . ''
At the end of the 2001 season , however , Kittle resigned from his  managerial  position , and Jim Boynewicz was hired to replace him .
In 2004 , the Flyers made it to the Northern League  चैंपियनशिप  Series against the St. Paul Saints .
Despite leading the five-game series 2-1 , Schaumburg   eventually lost the series .
In Game 5 , Flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas allowed a game winning grand slam by St. Paul  infielder मार्क mirizzi in the नवीं inning  .
The Flyers appeared in the Northern League Playoffs four times ( 1999 , 2003 , 2004 , 2006 ) but never  जीती  the championship .
Some   famous players who played for the Flyers were former Oakland A 's outfielder Ozzie Canseco and former Chicago Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith .
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice / ; born 7 March 1970 ) is an English  फिल्मी  and theatre actress and former fashion model .
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall , Cambridge in the early  1990s , तब प्रारंभ  working in television , appearing in Inspector Morse , the British mini-series Scarlet and Black , and the television film Advocates II .
She made her film début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ) , but her breakthrough role came in the film Chain Reaction ( 1996 ) , leading to a high-profile role as   Evelyn Carnahan-O'Connell in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ) .
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the Gates , About a Boy , Constantine , The Fountain  and The  Constant Gardener , for which she received an Academy Award , a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle .
She has  महरूम  labelled an `` English rose '' since her minor role in Stealing Beauty ( 1996 ) .
Weisz also works in   theatre .
Her stage breakthrough was the 1994 revival of Noël  Coward 's play Design for Living  , which earned her the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer .
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999 Donmar Warehouse production of Tennessee Williams ' Suddenly  , पिछला गर्मियाँ  , and their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire .
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in the latter play earned her the Critics ' Circle  थिएटर  Award for Best Actress .
She  रै  recently played Evanora in Oz the Great and Powerful .
The  American  Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of  गुलामी  , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers   did not intervene .
After four years of bloody  कॉम्बैट कि बाएँ over 600,000  soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860  presidential election ,  Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven cotton-based slave states   formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic  अध्यक्ष  James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's  inaugural  address declared his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave  राज्य  continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within  territory claimed by the confederacy  .
A Peace Conference failed to find a   compromise , and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate   States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces  fired upon फोर्ट sumter  , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined  the  Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval blockade   that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat  at the बैटल  of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which   made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the   Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion north   ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of  all  Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure  साथ the रास्ता  .
The Union marshaled the resources  and manpower to  attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading   to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American  सिविल युद्ध थी  one of the earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads , the  टेलीग्राफ  , steamships , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War  I  .
It remains the deadliest war in American  history , resulting in the  deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white  males aged  18–40 .
Potato   bread is a form of bread in which potato replaces a portion of the regular wheat flour .
It is cooked in a variety of methods  ,  including by baking it on a hot griddle or pan , or in an oven .
It may be leavened or unleavened , and may have a variety of other   ingredients baked into it .
the अनुपात of आलू to गेहूं आटा varies significantly इससे रेसिपी  to recipe , with some recipes having a majority of potato , and others having a majority of wheat flour .
कुछ व्यंजनों कॉल लिये mashed आलू , साथ अन्य कॉलिंग लिये निर्जलित आलू flakes  .
It is available as a commercial product in many countries , with similar variations in ingredients ,  कुकिंग  method , and other variables .
The Pacific Time Zone observes standard time by subtracting eight hours  from  Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
The  क्लॉक  time in this zone is based on the mean solar time of the 120th meridian west of the Greenwich Observatory .
दौरान  daylight saving time , its time offset is .
In the United States and Canada , this time zone is  generically पुकारा  Pacific Time ( PT ) .
Specifically , it is Pacific Standard Time ( PST ) when observing standard time ( winter ) , and Pacific Daylight Time ( PDT ) when observing  daylight  saving time ( summer ) .
Most of  कनाडा  uses daylight saving time .
In Mexico the UTC−8 time zone is  ज्ञात  as the Northwest Zone , which is synchronized with the U.S. PDT daylight saving schedule .
The largest city in the Pacific Time Zone is Los Angeles in California from USA ; the city 's metropolitan area is the largest in  the  zone .
The zone is one hour ahead of the Alaska Time Zone , one hour behind the Mountain Time Zone and  तीन घंटों  behind the Eastern Time Zone .
Stereo 8 , commonly known as the eight-track cartridge , eight-track  टेप ,  or simply eight-track , is a magnetic tape sound recording technology .
It  थी लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the mid-1960s through to the जल्दी 1980s , लकिन थी अपेक्षाकृत अनजान in अनेक यूरोपीय देशों .
It was , however , very popular  in  the United Kingdom during this period .
Stereo 8 was created in 1964 by a consortium led by Bill Lear of Lear Jet Corporation , along with Ampex , Ford Motor   Company , General Motors , Motorola , and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ) .
It was a further development of  the समान stereo-pak  four-track cartridge created by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz .
A later quadraphonic version of the format was announced by RCA in April 1970 and first known as Quad-8 , then later  बदला  to just Q8 .
रामेसेस ii ( 1303 bc – जुलाई  or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian : , alternatively transcribed as Rameses and Ramses or ) , referred to as Ramesses the Great , was the third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 BC ) of the Nineteenth dynasty .
He is often regarded as  the महानतम  , most celebrated , and most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian Empire .
His successors and later Egyptians  पुकारा उसे the ``  Great Ancestor . ''
Ramesses II led several   military expeditions into the Levant , re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan .
He also led expeditions to the south , into Nubia , commemorated in  inscriptions at beit  el-Wali and Gerf Hussein .
At age fourteen , Ramesses  थी  appointed Prince Regent by his father Seti I .
He is believed to have taken the throne in his late teens and is known to have ruled Egypt from 1279 BC to 1213 BC for 66 years and 2  months  , according to both Manetho and Egypt 's contemporary historical records .
He was once said to have lived to be 99 years old , but it is more likely  कि he  died in his 90th or 91st year .
If he became Pharaoh in 1279 BC as most Egyptologists today believe , he would have assumed the throne on May 31 , 1279 BC , based on his known accession date of  III  Shemu day 27 .
Ramesses II  मनाये an unprecedented 14 sed  festivals ( the first held after thirty years of a pharaoh 's reign , and then every three years ) during his reign—more than any other pharaoh .
On his death , he was buried in a tomb in the Valley of  the किंग्स ; उसके  body was later moved to a royal cache where it was discovered in 1881 , and is now on display in the Cairo Museum .
the जल्दी भाग of उसके शासनकाल थी केन्द्रित on भवन शहरों , मंदिरों और स्मारक  .
He established the city of Pi-Ramesses in the  nile डेल्टा  as his new capital and main base for his campaigns in Syria .
This city was built on the remains of the city of Avaris , the  पूंजी of the हिक्सोस  when they took over , and was the location of the main Temple of Set .
He is also known as Ozymandias in the Greek sources , from a transliteration into  यूनानी of a भाग of रामेसेस  's throne name , , `` Ra 's mighty truth , chosen of Ra '' .
The Texas Rangers are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली स्तिथ in the dallas-fort लायक metroplex , आधारित in आर्लिंगटन , टेक्सास .
The Rangers franchise is currently a member of the Western  प्रभाग  of Major League Baseball 's American League .
Since , the Rangers have played in Rangers  ballpark  in Arlington in Arlington , Texas .
The  टोली 's  name is borrowed from the famous law enforcement agency of the same name .
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the Washington Senators , an expansion team awarded to Washington , D.C. , after the city 's first ballclub , the original  वॉशिंगटन  Senators , moved to Minnesota and became the Twins .
After the season , the new Senators moved to  आर्लिंगटन  , Texas , and debuted as the Rangers the following spring .
The Texas Rangers Baseball Club has made six appearances in the MLB postseason , all following  प्रभाग championships  , in 1996 , 1998 , 1999 , 2010 , 2011 and 2012 .
In 2010 , the Rangers advanced past the  प्रभाग  Series for the first time , defeating the Tampa Bay Rays .
Texas then brought home their first American League Pennant after  धड़कन  the New York Yankees in six games .
In the 2010 World Series , the franchise  's पहला , the  Rangers fell to the San Francisco Giants in five games .
उनके लोन विजय बना उन्हें the पहला टेक्सास टोली to जीत a संसार श्रेणी खेल , the ह्यूस्टन एस्टर्स having महरूम swept in उनके 2005 संसार श्रेणी रूप  .
They repeated as American League champions the following year , then lost the 2011 World  श्रेणी to the  St. Louis Cardinals in seven games .
gaius जूलियस सीज़र ( , जुलाई 100 bc – 15 कूच 44 bc ) थी a रोमन सामान्य , statesman , कौंसुल और notable लेखक of लैटिन गद्य  .
he निभाई a नाजुक भूमिका in  the events that led to the demise of the Roman Republic and the rise of the Roman Empire .
In 60 BC , Caesar , Crassus and Pompey formed a political alliance that was to dominate  Roman  politics for several years .
Their attempts to amass  शक्ति through populist tactics  were opposed by the conservative elite within the Roman Senate , among them Cato the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero .
Caesar 's  conquest  of Gaul , completed by 51 BC , extended Rome 's territory to the English Channel and the Rhine .
Caesar became the first Roman general to cross both when he  निर्मित a सेतु आरपार  the Rhine and conducted the first invasion of Britain .
ये उपलब्धियाँ granted उसे बेमेल सैन्य शक्ति और threatened to ग्रहण the खड़ा of pompey , जो था realigned खुद साथ the सीनेट बाद the मौत of crassus in 53 bc  .
With the Gallic Wars  concluded , the सीनेट ordered  Caesar to lay down his military command and return to Rome .
Caesar refused , and marked his defiance in 49 BC by crossing the Rubicon with a legion , leaving his  province and  illegally entering Roman territory under arms .
सिविल  war resulted , from which he emerged as the unrivaled leader of Rome .
बाद assuming  control of government , Caesar began a program of social and governmental reforms , including the creation of the Julian calendar .
He centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic and was eventually  proclaimed  `` dictator in perpetuity '' .
But the  underlying राजनैतिक विरोध था नहीं  been resolved , and on the Ides of March ( 15 March ) 44 BC , Caesar was assassinated by a group of senators led by Marcus Junius Brutus .
A new series of civil wars broke out , and the constitutional government of  the गणतंत्र थी  never restored .
सीज़र 's अपनाया वारिस octavian , बाद ज्ञात as augustus , रोज़ to एकमात्र शक्ति , और the era of the रोमन साम्राज्य began .
Much of Caesar 's life is known from his  own  accounts of his military campaigns , and from other contemporary sources , mainly the letters and speeches of Cicero and the historical writings of Sallust .
The later biographies of Caesar by Suetonius  और  Plutarch are also major sources .
Caesar is deemed to be one of the greatest military  कमांडरों  of history .
Linguistic map of Nigeria ,  कैमरून  , and Benin .
Sign in English , outside the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Lagos
वहीँ  are hundreds of languages spoken in Nigeria .
The major languages are Yoruba , Hausa , Igbo , Edo , Fulfulde ,  कनूरी  , and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria , English , the former colonial language , was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity  of the  country .
English , however , remains an  विशेष  preserve of the country 's urban elite , and is not widely spoken in rural areas , which comprise three quarters of the countries population .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of Africa as a whole , encompassing three major African languages families : Afroasiatic  ,  Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
सीरियल भी रै अनेक as-yet unclassified भाषाएं , ऐसे as cen tuum , जिससे may represent a relic of an भी वृहद विविधता prior to the स्प्रेड of the वर्तमान भाषा परिवारों  .
Daucus carota ( common names include  जंगली गाजर , ( uk ) बर्ड 's घोंसला  , bishop 's lace , and Queen Anne 's lace ( North America ) ) is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae , native to temperate regions of Europe , southwest Asia and naturalised to North America and Australia .
Domesticated carrots are cultivars of a subspecies ,  daucus carota  subsp . sativus .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the  United States and confirmed by the United  States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence  and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional  power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every  judge appointed to such a court may be categorized  as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because   they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In  जोड  , judges of the Court of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the  सीनेट , और उनके शक्ति गर्भाशयी इससे आलेख  I instead .
See  आलेख  I and Article III tribunals .
Nelly Kim   Furtado ( born December 2 , 1978 ) is a Canadian singer , songwriter and actress .
She has sold 20 million albums worldwide and more 20 million singles , bringing her total sales  to over  40 million records around the world .
Furtado first gained  कीर्ति  with her debut album , Whoa , Nelly !
, which spawned two successful singles , ``  I 'm  Like a Bird `` and `` Turn Off the Light `` . ``
I 'm Like A Bird '' won a 2001 Juno Award for  सिंगल of the साल  and a 2002 Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
In 2003 , Furtado released Folklore , which produced three  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  singles— `` Powerless ( Say What You Want ) `` , `` Try `` and `` Força `` .
Three years later   she released Loose , a worldwide commercial success .
The album spawned four number-one  हिट्स : `` promiscuous  `` , `` Maneater `` , `` Say It Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) `` .
After a three-year break , she  released  her first full-length Spanish album , Mi Plan , and Furtado received a Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album .
In  2012  , Furtado 's fourth English-language studio album , The Spirit Indestructible was released .
Furtado 's work has earned  her numerous  awards and accolades , including 2 Grammy Awards , 10 Juno Awards , 3 MuchMusic Video Awards and a star on Canada 's Walk of Fame .
जीव  of the Night is the tenth studio album by Kiss .
It is the band 's last   album for Casablanca Records , the only label the group had ever recorded for at that point .
The album was dedicated to the memory   of Casablanca founder and early Kiss supporter Neil Bogart , who had died of cancer during the recording sessions .
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's Psycho Circus ) , and its first album with Vinnie Vincent as the initially uncredited  lead  guitarist ( Vincent would later be credited , but not featured pictorially on the cover , of 1985 's reissue of the album ) .
Touch is a  निर्णायक  means of receiving information .
This photo shows tactile markings identifying stairs for  visually  impaired people .
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system   comprising the receptors and processing centres to produce the sensory modalities such as touch , temperature , proprioception ( body position ) , and nociception ( pain ) .
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia , skeletal muscles , bones  and joints ,  internal organs , and the cardiovascular system .
While touch is considered one of the five  परंपरागत  senses , the impression of touch is formed from several modalities .
In medicine , the colloquial term `` touch '' is usually replaced with `` somatic  होश  '' to better reflect the variety of mechanisms involved .
Somatic  senses are  sometimes referred to as somesthetic senses , with the understanding that somesthesis includes touch , proprioception and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception .
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using  अलग receptors : thermoreceptors  , nociceptors , mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors .
Transmission of information from the receptors passes via sensory nerves through tracts in the spinal cord and  into the  brain .
Processing primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal lobe of the  दिमागी  cortex .
The cortical   homunculus was devised by Wilder Penfield .
At its simplest , the system works when activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as heat ; this signal eventually passes to an area in  the दिमाग uniquely attributed to कि  area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location .
The point-to-point mapping of the body surfaces in the brain is called a homunculus and  is  essential in the creation of a body image .
This brain-surface ( ``   cortical '' ) map is not immutable , however .
Dramatic  shifts can occur  in response to stroke or injury .
Magnolia is a large genus of about 210 flowering plant species in the subfamily Magnolioideae  of  the family Magnoliaceae .
It is named after French  वनस्पतिशास्त्री  Pierre Magnol .
Magnolia is an ancient  genus  .
Appearing before bees did  , the  flowers evolved to encourage pollination by beetles .
To avoid  क्षति  from pollinating beetles , the carpels of Magnolia flowers are extremely tough .
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have been  मिला डेटिंग  to 20 million years ago , and of plants identifiably belonging to the Magnoliaceae dating to 95 million years ago .
Another aspect of Magnolias that is considered to represent an ancestral state is that the flower bud is enclosed in a bract rather than in sepals ; the  perianth  parts are undifferentiated and called tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals .
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic with several other flowering  plants near the base  of the flowering plant lineage such as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently derived plants such as Lilium ) .
The natural range of Magnolia  प्रजाति is a disjunct  distribution , with a main centre in east and southeast Asia and a secondary centre in eastern North America , Central America , the West Indies , and some species in South America .
अंगूठा
``  श्वेत  Christmas '' is an Irving Berlin song reminiscing about an old-fashioned Christmas setting .
According to  the  Guinness Book of World Records , the version sung by Bing Crosby is the best-selling single of all time , with estimated sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide .
Accounts vary as  to when and  where Berlin wrote the song .
One story is that he wrote it in  1940 ,  in warm La Quinta , California , while staying at the La Quinta Hotel , a frequent Hollywood retreat also favored by writer-producer Frank Capra , although the Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there .
He often stayed up all night writing — he told  his secretary  , `` Grab your pen and take down this song .
I just wrote the best song I 've ever written — heck , I  बस लिखा the बेहतरीन सोंग  that anybody 's ever written ! ''
Cross-country skiing ( or XC skiing ) is a form of ski touring in which participants  propel themselves आरपार  snow-covered terrain using skis and poles .
The activity is popular in many places with large snowfields , primarily  उत्तरी  Europe , Canada , and Alaska .
cross-country  skiing is part of the Nordic skiing sport family , which includes ski jumping , Nordic combined ( cross-country skiing and ski jumping ) , Biathlon ( skiing and rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ) .
Cross-country skiing is the modern style of skiing that most resembles  प्रागैतिहासिक स्कीइंग  , particularly when done in the backcountry .
It is also related to  telemark  skiing .
a उपयोग  tax in United States is complementary to sales tax which means , if you buy a Taxable product/services without paying any Sales tax to vendor , you owe use tax .
You must self assess use tax and pay it directly to the state  where  the products were consumed or services were rendered .
Use tax typically is a tax on consumption but if you buy an item ( without paying sales tax ) and store it in your warehouse initially , use tax applies to that location where goods were stored   .
Later on when the final consumption takes place at some other location , you are required to pay the differential  of कर रेट to the क्षेत्राधिकार  of ultimate place of consumption .
This   really means that you do n't have to pay both Sales Tax as well as Use Tax on one transaction .
It is  तभी  one or the other that you are required to pay on purchase of taxable products/services .
If vendor does n't charge  any Sales tax on its  invoice then it is the obligation of the buyer to self assess Use tax and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication .
उपयोग कर is generally चार्ज at the वही कर रेट of बिक्री कर लकिन in कुछ राज्य the कर रेट is अलग .
उपयोग  tax is also termed as `` Consumption Tax '' or `` Consumer Use Tax '' .
A use tax is a type of excise tax levied in the United States by numerous   state governments .
It is assessed upon tangible personal property purchased by a resident of the assessing state for use , storage , or   consumption in that state ( not for resale ) , regardless of where the purchase took place .
If a resident of a  राज्य  makes a purchase within his home state , full sales tax is paid at the time of the transaction .
The  उपयोग कर applies जब  a resident of the assessing state purchases an item that is not subject to his home state 's sales tax .
Usually , this is due to out-of-state purchases , as well as ordering items through  the मेल ,  by phone , or over the Internet from other states .
The use tax is typically  assessed at the  same rate as the sales tax that would have been owed ( if any ) had the same goods been purchased in the state of residence .
For example  ,  a resident of Massachusetts , with a 6.25 % `` sales and use tax '' on certain goods and services , purchases non-exempt goods or services in New Hampshire for use , storage or other consumption in Massachusetts .
Under New Hampshire law , the New Hampshire vendor collects no sales taxes on the goods , but the Massachusetts purchaser/user must still  pay  6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax .
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does  collect बिक्री  tax for such goods at time of purchase , whatever taxes were paid by the purchaser to that state can be deducted ( as a tax credit ) from the 6.25 % owed for subsequent use , storage or consumption in Massachusetts .
With few exceptions , no state 's vendors will charge the native state 's sales tax on goods shipped out of state , meaning all goods ordered from  out-of-state  are essentially free of sales tax .
The purchaser is therefore required to declare and pay the use tax to his home state on  ये  ordered goods .
The assessing jurisdiction may make the use  कर  payable annually , but some states require a monthly payment .
For example , where a Vermont resident has not paid at least 6 % sales tax on property brought in for use in the state , Vermont law requires filing a tax return ( Form SU-452 and payment ) by the 20th day of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee , a 5 %  दंड प्रति माह , to a अधिकतम of 25 % , प्लस statutory  interest on the unpaid tax and penalties .
Typical exemptions  include purchases  by charitable non-profit organizations or governmental agencies , purchases for resale in commerce , and purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business .
Also note that there are thousands of tax jurisdictions in  the u.S. और अनेक have ever-changing सूचियाँ  of specific types of goods and services that are not taxable .
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment of tax on ``  pre-written ''  ( not custom ) software purchased and downloaded over the Internet for installation and use in Massachusetts , regardless of where it originates .
However , the actual use of the  वही तन्त्र  downloaded by a Massachusetts resident to a server in another state remains a non-taxed `` service '' .
In contrast , Arkansas  generally  does not tax anything delivered over the Internet ( such as downloaded software or music ) , except VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` telecommunications services '' .
तन्त्र  ( pre-written or custom ) `` delivered thru a tangible medium '' ( i.e. , on disk ) in Arkansas is taxable even if ordered online , except `` custom software for a particular customer '' which is non-taxable `` programming services '' even if delivered on a disk .
In most cases , this complexity is part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only the sales tax laws of its own location , remote sellers have to deal with the use tax laws of many jurisdictions—up to every US state and locality that assesses them , if the company has a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as  विशाल `` brick-and-mortar '' विक्रेता जैसे wal-mart  and Best Buy do ) .
In medicine , pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery , pulmonary vein , or pulmonary  capillaries , साथ ज्ञात  as the lung vasculature , leading to shortness of breath , dizziness , fainting , and other symptoms , all of which are exacerbated by exertion .
Pulmonary hypertension   can be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and heart failure .
It was first identified by Dr. Ernst von Romberg in 1891   .
According to the most recent classification , it can be one of five different types :  arterial , venous , hypoxic ,  thromboembolic or miscellaneous .
सही
सही
Sanuk ,  a division  of Deckers Outdoor Corporation , is a footwear brand based in Southern California .
Sanuk , the Thai word  for  fun , was founded by Southern California native Jeff Kelley when he started making sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet .
The first product created was green carpeted and entitled the ``  फर रियल '' बाद एक दूकान मालिक पूछा  if the novelty sandal was `` For Real . ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through boutique stores and not the intended  लहरे  shops .
The novelty act was followed up by a sandal wrapped in wire mesh  ,  a leopard print version , and styles made out of a poncho material in a variety of colors .
Sanuk has grown to include style options for men , women and youth and is   distributed across the United States and in over 50 countries throughout Europe , Asia , South America and Australia .
Sanuk centers itself around a positive lifestyle advocating the slogan , `` Smile , Pass it on !  ``  .
In computer science , array programming languages ( also known as vector or multidimensional languages ) generalize operations on scalars to apply  transparently  to vectors , matrices , and higher dimensional arrays .
Array programming primitives concisely express broad ideas   about data manipulation .
The level of conciseness can be dramatic in certain cases : it is not uncommon to find array  प्रोग्रामिंग  language one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of Java code .
APL , designed by Ken Iverson  , was  the first programming language to provide array programming capabilities .
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A Programming Language '' and not to arrays per se . Iverson 's contribution to rigor and  clarity was probably  more important than the simple extension of dimensions to functions .
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party , usually an individual , pays a life insurance company a single premium that will later be  वितरित  back to the insured party over time .
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of income over time , such as via fixed payments , until the death of the person or persons named in the contract or until a  फाइनल  date , whichever comes first .
However , the   majority of modern annuity customers use annuities only to accumulate funds free of income and capital gains taxes and to later take lump-sum withdrawals without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature .
President  बराक  Obama .
Barack  ओबामा साथ  his first Supreme Court nominee , Sonia Sotomayor .
Following is a list of all United States federal judges appointed by President   Barack Obama during his presidency .
As of  अप्रैल 30 , 2013 , 187 ओबामा नामांकित  to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the United States Senate , namely two Justices to the Supreme Court of the United States , 35 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 150 judges to the United States district courts .
25 further nominations  हैं फिलहाल  awaiting Senate action .
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of Appeals , 67 vacancies on the United States district courts and 22  अतिरिक्त  federal judiciary vacancies that are anticipated to occur before the end of Obama 's second term .
Obama has not made any  recess नियुक्ति  to the federal courts .
Obama has made two nominations to the United States Court of International Trade , an Article   III tribunal .
Obama also designated sitting judge Emily C. Hewitt of the United States  अदालत of संघीय दावा ,  an Article I court , to be Chief Judge of that court .
इस is a सूची of एयरपोर्ट in मैक्सिको , sorted by स्थान .
Mexico has about 1,834 airports  ,  ranking 2nd in number of airports in North America , and 3rd in the world .
तभी प्रमुख  National and International Airports are shown .
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is a security , usually a bond , issued by a  U.S.  government-sponsored agency .
the offerings of ये एजेंसियों हैं समर्थित लकिन नहीं गारंटी by the us सरकारी चूंकि the एजेंसियों हैं निजी entities  .
Some prominent issuers of these securities are Student Loan  विपणन संघ (  Sallie Mae ) , Federal National Mortgage Association ( Fannie Mae ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ( Freddie Mac ) .
एजेंसी प्रतिभूति हैं प्रायः exempt इससे राज्य और लोकल कर , लकिन नहीं संघीय कर  .
Agency  कर्ज़  is also called an agency security .
The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station ,  a खौलते  water reactor .
The  reactors  are located inside the rectangular containment buildings towards the front of the cooling towers .
Three nuclear-powered American warships , ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers USS Bainbridge and USS  long बीच साथ uss एंटरप्राइज़ the  first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964 .
Crew members are  spelling  out Einstein 's mass-energy equivalence formula E = mc2 on the flight deck .
The Russian nuclear-powered  हिमभंजक  NS Yamal on a 1994 joint expedition with the NSF .
Nuclear power is the use of sustained nuclear   fission to generate heat and electricity .
Nuclear power plants provided about 5.7 % of the world 's energy and 13 % of the world 's  विद्युत , in 2012 .
In 2013 , the IAEA report that there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors ( although not all are producing  विद्युत ) , in 31 देशों .
In addition , there are approximately 140 naval vessels using nuclear propulsion in operation , powered   by some 180 reactors .
वहीँ is  an ongoing debate about the use of nuclear energy .
Proponents , such as the World Nuclear Association , the IAEA  और पर्यावरणविद  for Nuclear Energy contend that nuclear power is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions .
Opponents , such as Greenpeace International and NIRS , believe that nuclear power  मुद्राएँ अनेक  threats to people and the environment .
Nuclear power plant accidents include the  chernobyl विपत्ति  ( 1986 ) , Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster ( 2011 ) , and the Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ) .
There have  भी महरूम कुछ  nuclear-powered submarine mishaps .
Research into safety improvements is continuing and nuclear fusion , believed to be  safer , may be used  in the future .
As of 2012 , according to the IAEA , worldwide there  यहूद 68 सिविल नाभिकीय शक्ति  reactors under construction in 15 countries .
In the US the licenses of almost half its reactors have been extended to 60  सालो , और योजनाएँ to  build another dozen are under serious consideration .
However ,  जापानी  's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster prompted a rethink of nuclear energy policy in many countries .
Germany decided to close all its reactors by 2022  ,  and Italy has banned nuclear power .
Following Fukushima , the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be   built by 2035 .
फोटोग्राफ  of the Berlin Wall taken from the West side .
The Wall was built in 1961 to prevent East Germans   from fleeing from Communism .
It was an iconic symbol of the Cold War   and its fall in 1989 marked the end of the War .
The Cold War , often dated from 1947 to 1991 , was a sustained state of political and military tension between powers in  the पश्चिमी bloc , वर्चस्व by the संयुक्त राज्य  with NATO among its allies , and powers in the Eastern Bloc , dominated by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact .
This began after the success of their temporary  wartime गठबंधन विरूद्ध नाजी  Germany , leaving the USSR and the US as two superpowers with profound economic and political differences .
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned Movement  संस्थापित by मिश्र , इण्डिया , और यूगोस्लाविया ; इस गुट  rejected association with either the US-led West or the Soviet-led East .
The Cold  युद्ध थी so नामित  because the two major powers—each possessing nuclear weapons and thereby threatened with mutual assured destruction —never met in direct military combat .
Instead , in their struggle for global influence they engaged in ongoing psychological warfare and in regular  अप्रत्यक्ष  confrontations through proxy wars .
Cycles of relative calm would be   followed by high tension , which could have led to world war .
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ) , the Korean War ( 1950–1953 ) , the Suez Crisis ( 1956 ) , the Berlin Crisis of 1961 , the Cuban missile crisis ( 1962 ) , the Vietnam War ( 1959–1975 ) , the Yom Kippur War ( 1973 ) , the Soviet war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ) , the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines  उड़ान 007 ( 1983 ) , और the ``  Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ) .
The  विरोध थी expressed through सैन्य coalitions , रणनीतिक conventional फ़ोर्स deployments , extensive सहायता to क्लाएंट राज्य , espionage , विशाल प्रचार अभियान , conventional और नाभिकीय बाहें दौड़ , appeals to न्यूट्रल राष्ट्र , फंसने at खेल कार्यक्रम ( in particular the ओलंपिक ) , और technological प्रतियोगिताओं ऐसे as the स्पेस रेस .
The US and USSR became involved in political and military conflicts in the Third World countries of Latin America , Africa ,  the मध्य ईस्ट  , and Southeast Asia .
To alleviate the risk of a potential nuclear war , both  पहलू sought  relief of political tensions through détente in the 1970s .
In the 1980s ,  the संयुक्त राज्य increased राजनयिक , सैन्य , और आर्थिक pressures on the सोवियत संघ , at a समय जब the कम्युनिस्ट राज्य थी already कष्ट इससे आर्थिक stagnation .
In the mid-1980s , the new Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization '' , 1987 ) and glasnost  ( ``  openness '' , ca . 1985 ) .
Pressures for national  स्वतंत्रता grew  stronger in Eastern Europe , especially Poland .
They reached a breaking point when Gorbachev refused to use Soviet troops to support the  faltering  government of East Germany in late 1989 .
Within weeks all the satellite states broke free from Moscow in a peaceful wave of  revolutions  ( there was some violence in Romania ) .
The pressures escalated inside the Soviet Union , where Communism fell and the USSR was formally  dissolved in लेट 1991  .
The  संयुक्त  States remained as the world 's only superpower .
The Cold War and its events have left a significant legacy , and it is often referred to in popular culture , especially in media featuring themes  of espionage  and the threat of nuclear warfare .
Pikes Peak State Park is a state park of Iowa , USA , featuring a bluff overlooking the Upper Mississippi River opposite the confluence  of  the Wisconsin River .
The park is operated by the Iowa Department of Natural  संसाधन  .
It is nearly a thousand acres  (  4 km2 ) in extent .
The  निकटतम  city is McGregor , Iowa .
Iowa Highway 76 approximately defines  इसके उत्तरी  boundary .
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of Pikes  Peak ,  a particularly high point overlooking the gorge of the Upper Mississippi , and like Pikes Peak in Colorado , is named for Zebulon Pike .
There are hiking trails ,  campgrounds  and RV facilities .
Mountain bikes are permitted  in निश्चित  portions of the park .
Aside from recreational development , the land in the park was never cleared and to a large  extent  remains as it was before the advent of white settlement .
It is part of a larger complex of parks , reserves and refuges which include Effigy Mounds National Monument , the various components of the  पीला नदी राज्य वन , the विशाल  Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller , much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge .
The Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is undergoing development , and will connect elements   of these sites .
Zac Brown Band is an  अमरीकी country/folk  band based in Atlanta , Georgia .
The lineup consists of Zac Brown ( lead vocals ,  गिटार ) , jimmy  De Martini ( fiddle , vocals ) , John Driskell Hopkins ( bass guitar , vocals ) , Coy Bowles ( guitar , keyboards ) , Chris Fryar ( drums ) , Clay Cook ( guitar , keyboards , mandolin , steel guitar , vocals ) , and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ) .
The  band  has toured throughout the United States , including a slot on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival .
They have also recorded five studio albums , and charted nine Number One singles on the Billboard  देश  charts : `` Chicken Fried `` , `` Toes `` , `` Highway 20 Ride `` , `` Free `` , `` As She 's Walking Away `` , `` Colder Weather `` , `` Knee Deep `` , `` Keep Me In Mind `` , and `` Goodbye in Her Eyes `` in addition to the singles `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry `` , which peaked at number 2 on the same chart .
Talk radio is a radio format  containing चर्चा  about topical issues .
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single individual , and often feature interviews with a number  of  different guests .
बात रेडियो typically शामिल an तत्व of श्रोता भागीदारी , प्रायः by प्रसारण सजीव बातचीत between the मेजबान और श्रोता जो `` कॉल in '' ( प्रायः via टेलीफोन ) to the दिखाएँ .
Listener contributions are usually screened by a show 's producer ( s ) in order  to maximize audience interest  and , in the case of commercial talk radio , attract advertisers .
Generally , the shows are organized into segments , each separated by a pause for advertisements ; however , in public or non-commercial radio , music is  sometimes निभाई in प्लेस of  commercials to separate the program segments .
Variations   of talk radio include conservative talk , hot talk , liberal talk and sports talk .
While talk radio has historically been associated with AM/FM ,  starting around 2005  the technology for Internet-based talk-radio shows became cost effective in the form of podcasts .
Now , it is  possible  for an individual to use a variety of services to host an Internet-based talk-radio show without carriage by a traditional radio station .
In addition TV programming from talk and news outlets such as BBC , CNN , Bloomberg and Fox are now often available expanding the world  of talk  radio further .
Talk  रेडियो सुनना is  now enjoyed not only on radios , but a wide variety of other devices and services including PCs using iTunes , station directories such as Tunein , show directory smartphones with apps such as Stitcher .
Hippa is a genus of decapod crustaceans in the family  hippidae  , containing the following species:
hippa  adactyla Fabricius , 1787
Hippa admirabilis (  thallwitz  , 1892 )
Hippa alcimede (  de  Man , 1902 )
Hippa australis Hale  , 1927
Hippa carcineutes  holthuis & मैनिंग  , 1970
Hippa  celaeno  ( de Man , 1896 )
Hippa  granulatus  ( Borradaile , 1904 )
hippa  hirtipes ( Dana , 1852 )
Hippa indica Haig , Murugan &  बालकृष्णन  Nair , 1986
Hippa   marmorata ( Hombron & Jacquinot , 1846 )
Hippa ovalis ( A.  milne-edwards  , 1862 )
Hippa picta ( Heller  ,  1861 )
Hippa   strigillata ( Stimpson , 1860 )
Hippa testudinaria (  herbst  , 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons ( Miers , 1878  )
It is closely related to the genus Emerita , and species have often  महरूम  transferred between the two genera .
Jakarta ( ) , officially known as the Special Capital Region of Jakarta ( ) , is the   capital and largest city of Indonesia .
Located on the northwest coast of Java ,  जकार्ता  is the country 's economic , cultural and political centre , and with a population of 10,187,595 as of November 2011 , it is the most populous city in Indonesia and in Southeast Asia , and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world .
the आधिकारिक महानगर क्षेत्रफल , ज्ञात as jabodetabek ( a नाम formed by combining the आरंभिक syllables of जकार्ता , bogor , depok , tangerang और bekasi ) , is the दूसरी largest in the संसार , yet the metropolis 's उपनगरों स्टिल continue परे it .
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008 Globalization and World  शहरों  Study Group and Network ( GaWC ) research .
and has an  क्षेत्रफल of  .
This area has population of well over 28 million , making it one of the world 's largest  conurbations  in terms of number of inhabitants .
In 2011 , Jakarta ranked 17th among the world 's 200 largest cities , a jump from  its 2007  ranking of 171 .
Jakarta has grown more rapidly than Kuala   Lumpur , Beijing and Bangkok .
Established in the  fourth century  , the city became an important trading port for the Kingdom of Sunda .
It  थी the de  facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was known as Batavia ) and has continued as the capital of Indonesia since the country 's independence was declared in 1945 .
The city is the seat of the ASEAN  सचिवालय .
Jakarta is served by the Soekarno–Hatta International Airport , Halim Perdanakusuma International Airport , and Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is connected by several intercity and commuter  रेल , और परोसा by अनेक  bus lines running on reserved busways .
A typical home air   conditioning window unit .
Air conditioning is the process of altering the properties of air  (  primarily temperature and humidity ) to more favourable conditions .
More generally , air conditioning can refer  to कोई रूप of technological  cooling , heating , ventilation , or disinfection that modifies the condition of air .
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air con , AC or A/C , and  not  to be confused with the abbreviation for alternating current ) is a major or home appliance , system , or mechanism designed to change the air temperature and humidity within an area ( used for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ) .
The cooling is typically done using a simple refrigeration cycle , but sometimes evaporation is used , commonly for comfort cooling in buildings and motor  वाहनों  .
In construction , a complete  प्रणाली  of heating , ventilation and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC `` .
`` 6 Foot 7 Foot '' ( also styled as `` 6'7 '' )  is a सोंग  by American rapper Lil Wayne featuring label mate , Cory Gunz .
It is taken from his ninth studio album ,  tha कार्टर  IV ( 2011 ) .
It was officially  released  on iTunes on December 16 , 2010 .
It was produced by `` A   Milli `` producer Bangladesh .
The song samples `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) `` by Harry  belafonte  .
DC Talk ( styled as dc Talk ) , is a Grammy -winning Christian  रैप  trio .
The group was formed in Lynchburg , Virginia in 1987 by  टोबी mckeehan  , Michael Tait , and Kevin Max Smith .
They have  released पाँच प्रमुख स्टुडियो एल्बम साथ : dc बात ( 1989 ) , nu थांग ( 1990 ) , फ़्री at पिछला ( 1992 ) , यीशु freak ( 1995 ) , और अलौकिक ( 1998 ) .
In 2002 , the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music called DC Talk  `` the सबसे  popular overtly Christian act of all time . ''
In 2000 , the group  released an  EP titled Solo which contained two solo songs from each member .
Since that time , DC Talk has been on an indefinite   hiatus , and the three band members have each led solo careers .
They have performed and recorded individual songs together several times during the 2000s , although the group  never officially  reunited or disbanded .
The group 's musical style evolved significantly throughout  उनके करियर  .
Their first two  रिलीज  , DC Talk and Nu Thang , were of the hip hop genre .
DC Talk 's third album , Free at Last , also mainly took  influence इससे  the hip hop style , although their music began taking on a rock sound .
The trio 's last two albums , Jesus  freak और  Supernatural , were predominantly pop rock .
The Bible is a compilation  of many  shorter books written at different times and later assembled into the biblical canon .
All  लकिन the shortest of ये  books have been divided into chapters , generally a page or so in length , since the early 13th century .
Since the mid-16th  सदी  , each chapter has been further divided into `` verses '' of a few short lines or sentences .
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse , as in the case of , and sometimes there is more than one sentence in a single verse , as in the  case  of .
as the अध्याय और श्लोक विभाजन यहूद नहीं भाग of the असली ग्रन्थ , वे रूप भाग of the paratext of the बाइबल .
The Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text  differ at  various points from those used by Christians .
For instance , in Jewish tradition , the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as independent verses , making 116 more verses , whereas the established Christian practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription together   with the first verse following it .
Some chapter divisions also   occur in different places , e.g . in Hebrew Bibles is numbered as in Christian translations .
an अनुक्रमणिका  ( plural : indexes ) is a list of words or phrases ( 'headings ' ) and associated pointers ( 'locators ' ) to where useful material relating to that heading can be found in a document .
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings will include names of people , places and events , and concepts selected  by a व्यक्ति  as being relevant and of interest to a possible reader of the book .
The pointers are typically page numbers , paragraph numbers or section  संख्याएँ  .
In a library catalog the words are authors , titles , subject  headings  , etc. , and the pointers are call numbers .
अंतरजाल ढूंढें इंजन , ऐसे as google , और पूरा टेक्स्ट searching सहायता provide अभिगम to सूचना लकिन हैं नहीं as चयनात्मक as an अनुक्रमणिका , as वे provide non-relevant कड़ी , और may मिस प्रासंगिक सूचना if it is नहीं phrased in exactly the रास्ता वे expect .
In United States financial regulation , a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report made by a financial institution to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ) , an agency of the United States Department of the Treasury , regarding suspicious or  potentially  suspicious activity .
Facebook   on the Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service , whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to  विद्यार्थी at the प्रारंभ of the अकादमिक साल by कुछ  university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other .
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University   students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to Harvard students , but was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area , the Ivy League , and  स्टैनफोर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों  .
It gradually added support for students  at various other  universities before opening to high school students , and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any users who  घोषित themselves to be at  least 13 years old to become registered users of the site .
Users must register  पहले using the साईट , बाद जिससे वे may बनाएँ a निजी प्रोफ़ाइल , add अन्य उपयोक्ता as मित्रों , और एक्सचेंज संदेश , सहित स्वचालित सूचनाएं जब वे अद्यतन उनके प्रोफ़ाइल .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups , organized by workplace , school or college , or other  विशेषताएँ  , and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As of  सितंबर  2012 , Facebook has over one billion active users .
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10 ,  violating the site 's terms of  service .
In May 2005 , Accel partners invested $ 12.7  लाख  in Facebook , and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot .
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used social networking service  by विश्वव्यापी  monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade  ``  best-of '' list , saying , `` How on earth did we stalk our exes , remember our co-workers ' birthdays , bug our friends , and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics , such as Facebook Detox , state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the United States , resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging  आत्ममोह  .
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9  लाख  monthly unique U.S. visitors in May 2011 .
According to Social Media Today , in  April  2010 an estimated 41.6 % ( 129.5 million ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some regions , with the site   losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook eventually  दायर  for an initial public offering on February 1 , 2012 , and was headquartered in Menlo Park , California .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the public and trading on  the नैस्डैक on may  18 , 2012 .
सल्फोनेमाइड  functional group
Hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide and a  thiazide  .
Furosemide is a sulfonamide , but not a  thiazide  .
Sulfonamide or  sulphonamide  is the basis of several groups of drugs .
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa  दवाएँ or sulpha दवाएँ  ) are synthetic antimicrobial agents that contain the sulfonamide group .
Some sulfonamides are also devoid of antibacterial activity , e.g. , the  anticonvulsant sultiame  .
The sulfonylureas and thiazide diuretics  are  newer drug groups based on the antibacterial sulfonamides .
Sulfa allergies are common , hence medications containing  sulfonamides  are prescribed carefully .
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa drugs and other sulfur-containing drugs and additives , such as sulfates and sulfites , which are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group , and do not cause the  वही hypersensitivity  reactions seen in the sulfonamides .
This is a list of  वर्ण इससे  George Lopez .
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are domesticated grey geese ( either   Greylag Geese or Swan Geese ) kept as poultry for their meat , eggs , and down feathers since ancient times .
30 Seconds to Mars is an American rock  बैंड  from Los Angeles , formed in 1998 .
Since 2007 , the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals , rhythm  guitar ,  songwriter ) , Shannon Leto ( drums , percussion ) and Tomo Miličević ( lead guitar , keyboards ) .
Following the departure of Matt Wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007 , Tim Kelleher became the bassist for the group , performing live only with both Jared and Miličević recording bass for studio recordings ,  जबकि  Braxton Olita ( keyboards ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009 .
Previously , the group also featured guitarists Solon Bixler  (  now of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ) .
To date , 30 Seconds to Mars have released three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ) , A  खूबसूरत झूठ ( 2005  ) , This Is War ( 2009 ) and three extended plays – AOL Sessions Undercover ( 2007 ) , To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ) , and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ) .
30 Seconds  to  Mars ' music has been associated mostly with neo-prog , progressive metal and post-grunge , but they have also included emo , screamo , space rock and synthrock into their music .
They have  been compared to Pink  Floyd ( who were an influence on their work ) and Tool because of their use of philosophical and spiritual lyrics , concept albums and their use of experimental music .
A Christmas Story is a 1983 American Christmas comedy film based on the short stories and semi-fictional  anecdotes of author and raconteur  Jean Shepherd , based on his book In God We Trust , All Others Pay Cash , with some elements derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories .
It was  निर्देशित  by Bob Clark .
The film has since become a holiday classic and is shown numerous times on television during the Christmas season on the network TBS , often in a  24-hour मैराथन  .
In 2012 , the film was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress  लिये होने  `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
A Joe 's Crab Shack branch in  सैन  Diego , CA .
The  भवन  was initially a rowing club and was later converted into the restaurant .
Joe 's Crab Shack is an American chain of beach-themed seafood casual dining  रेस्तरां  owned by Ignite Restaurant Group .
Founded in Houston , Texas , the restaurant now operates locations all across  the  United States of America .
It serves seafood  और  American cuisine .
The restaurants also have a gift shop that sells facetious t-shirts featuring phrases  विज्ञापन  Joe 's seafood choices .
It  is आधारित  in Houston , Texas .
New York  नगर क्रूज  Liner Terminal in Hell 's Kitchen at 52nd Street .
The New York Passenger Ship Terminal ( also known as the Luxury Liner Row or Manhattan Cruise Terminal or New York Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger  ships on Manhattan 's  west side .
The terminal consists of North River Piers 88 , 90 , 92 and 94 on the Hudson River between West  46th और वेस्ट 54th  Street .
( As a general rule , pier numbers  in मैनहटन  can be determined by adding 40 to the corresponding cross-street . )
Ships now  डॉक at  Piers 88 , 90 and 92 .
Pier 94 on the north side is now used for  प्रदर्शनी  space .
Pier 86 , once used by United States Lines , is now home to  the uss intrepid  .
In 2003 , the terminal handled 900,000  यात्री  .
The  city  is forecasting that 1.5 million will use the terminal by 2017 .
The piers are   long and apart .
They were  पहला समाप्त  in 1935 to replace the Chelsea Piers as the city 's luxury liner terminal .
The new terminal was built to handle  bigger  ships that had outgrown the Chelsea Piers .
The piers were renovated in 1970 and are currently undergoing another $ 150 million  नवीकरण  .
The renovated plans call for it to handle three large ships at a time  .
In doing renovations , the city is also considering decommissioning  बांध 92  .
Logo of the New  यॉर्क  Cruise Terminal.For
decades the terminal was the only ocean-going  यात्री  terminal in New York harbor .
With an upsurge in  क्रूज जलयान ट्रैफ़िक और the टर्मिनल 's  ability to handle comfortably only three large ships at a time , two new terminals have opened in the harbor — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened in 2004 in Bayonne , New Jersey ( used by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line , Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ) , and the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal ( used by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn , New York .
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to below West 42nd Street because when  the terminal was built  land had to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers .
The US Army Corps of Engineers , who control the waterfront dimension , would not extend the pierhead line farther  into the नदी  , so the city extended the pier by cutting away at the land .
The city earlier did this for the  चेल्सी  Piers ; however in Chelsea only landfill was taken away .
At the Passenger Terminal actual  मैनहटन schist  was taken away .
From downstream  in  the river
Many major passenger ships have docked there , including the RMS  महारानी मरियम 2 और स्वतंत्रता  of the Seas , before the Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened .
The SS Normandie caught fire and subsequently capsized at its Pier 88 berth  दौरान  World War II .
The Normandie , renamed USS Lafayette , lies capsized in the frozen mud at  बांध 88 in the  winter of 1942
Norwegian Cruise Line 's soon to be newest ship the Norwegian Breakaway will sail year-round out of the New  यॉर्क यात्री  Ship Terminal .
The city will spend $ 4  लाख to renovate  and upgrade the cruise terminal to accommodate the ship .
इस is an अवलोकन of the नियमित , पुनरावर्ती , और अन्य वर्ण of the tv श्रेणी  NCIS .
Christian right  is a term used in  the United States to describe right-wing Christian political groups that are characterized by their strong support of socially conservative policies .
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the teachings of Christianity to politics and public policy by proclaiming the value of those  शिक्षाओं and/or by seeking  to use those teachings to influence law and public policy .
In the U.S. , the Christian right is an informal coalition formed around a core of evangelical Protestants that  draws `` support इससे  politically conservative Catholics , Jews , Mormons , and occasionally secularists '' who share their goals .
The movement has its roots in American politics going back  as दूर the  1940s and has been especially influential since the 1970s .
Their influence draws , in part , from grassroots activism as well as their focus on social issues and ability to motivate the electorate  around  those issues .
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative positions on issues including school prayer , stem cell research , homosexuality , contraception ,  गर्भपात , और pornography  .
Although the  ईसाई सही  is usually associated with the U.S. , the movement has been a key factor in the politics of Canada , The Netherlands , Northern Ireland and Australia , among others .
दूर ईस्ट गति ( stylized as far★east गति or abbreviated fm ) is an अमरीकी हिप हॉप बैंड quartet आधारित in लॉस एंजिल्स  .
The group formed in 2003 and consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin Nishimura ) , Prohgress ( James Roh ) ,  j-splif (  Jae Choung ) , and DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ) .
Far East Movement 's first claim to fame was their song `` Round Round '' featured in the Hollywood movie , The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo  Drift , and its  subsequent soundtrack , video game and DVD .
Since `` Round Round '' , the group has been featured on various network  shows सहित , , अनुगामी , गपशप लड़की , और  Finishing the Game ( a featured film at Sundance 2007 ) .
उनके सिंगल `` जैसे  a G6 `` hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 Chart and on iTunes as well in late October 2010 .
Far East Movement also has the distinction of being the first Asian-American group to earn a # 1 hit on the  बिलबोर्ड hot  100 in the United States .
LR44 is the IEC designation for an alkaline 1.5  volt button  cell , commonly used in small LED flashlights , digital thermometers , calculators , calipers , watches , clocks , toys and laser pointers .
lr44  alkaline cell
The battery nomenclature  is defined  by the International Electrotechnical Commission ( IEC ) in its 60086-3 standard ( Primary batteries , part 3 Watch batteries ) .
The letter L indicates the electrochemical system used ; a zinc negative electrode   , manganese dioxide depolarizer and positive electrode , and an alkaline electrolyte .
R44 indicates a round  कोशिका 11.4±0.2  mm diameter and 5.2±0.2 mm height as defined by the IEC standard 60086 .
निर्माताओं  have their own part numbers for IEC type LR44 batteries including:
LR44 ,  lr44g  , LR44GD , LR44H
LR1154 ,  l1154  , L1154C , L1154F , L1154G , L1154H
6135-99-792-8475  ( NSN )
1166a
AG13 , A613 , AG14 , AG-14 ,  g13a ,  G13-A
157 , 303 , 357
A76 ,  gda76  , GP76A , GPA7 , GPA75 , GPA76 , GPS76A,
1128MP  , 208-904 ,  A-76 , CA18 , CA19 , CR44 , D76A , KA , KA76 , MS76H , PX76A , PX675A , RPX675 , RW82 , SB-F9 , V13GA
4.5-volt , D , C , AA , AAA  , AAAA  , A23 , 9-volt , CR2032 and LR44 batteries
Other types of batteries are or were made in  the r44  size .
Formerly , mercury batteries were made as button cells ( types MR44 and  nr44  ) .
zinc-air बैटरी प्रकार pr44 आवश्यकता एयर to कार्य  .
Silver-oxide batteries type SR44 may provide extra capacity compared to LR44 types but have  थोड़ा अलग  voltage characteristics .
Performance of a device meant to use a silver-oxide battery may be  degraded साथ प्रतिस्थापन  of LR44 types .
Manufacturer 's numbers for silver oxide   R44 size cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240  ( NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76  (  Energizer )
303/357  ( D357H )
Hurricane   Katrina was the deadliest and most destructive Atlantic hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season .
It was the costliest natural disaster , as well as one of the five  deadliest hurricanes  , in the history of the United States .
Among  अंकित अटलांटिक  hurricanes , it was the sixth strongest overall .
At least 1,833 people died in the  hurricane और subsequent floods  , making it the deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane ; total property damage was estimated at $ 81 billion ( 2005 USD ) , nearly triple the damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992 .
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on August 23 ,  2005 और  crossed southern Florida as a moderate Category 1 hurricane , causing some deaths and flooding there before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico .
The hurricane strengthened to a  श्रेणी 5 hurricane over  the warm Gulf water , but weakened before making its second landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday , August 29 in southeast Louisiana .
It caused severe destruction along the Gulf coast from central  फ्लोरिडा to टेक्सास , much  of it due to the storm surge .
The most significant number  of  deaths occurred in New Orleans , Louisiana , which flooded as the levee system catastrophically failed , in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland .
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring parishes became  flooded ,  and the floodwaters lingered for weeks .
However , the worst property damage occurred in coastal areas , such as all  मिसिसिपी beachfront  towns , which were flooded over 90 % in hours , as boats and casino barges rammed buildings , pushing cars and houses inland , with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach .
The hurricane surge protection failures in New Orleans are considered the worst civil engineering disaster in U.S.  history and prompted a lawsuit against the  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers ( USACE ) , the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965 .
जिम्मेदारी लिये the असफलताओं और बाढ़ थी रखी squarely on the फौज corps in जनवरी 2008 by न्यायधीश stanwood डुवल , u.S. ज़िला अदालत , लकिन the संघीय एजेंसी could नहीं be आयोजित financially liable due to sovereign प्रतिरक्षण in the बाढ़ कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 1928  .
There was also an investigation of the responses from federal , state and local governments , resulting in the resignation of Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) director Michael D. Brown , and of  New  Orleans Police Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass .
Several agencies including the United States Coast Guard ( USCG ) , National Hurricane Center ( NHC ) , and National Weather Service ( NWS )  यहूद commended लिये उनके क्रियाएँ  .
They  provided  accurate hurricane weather tracking forecasts with sufficient lead time .
Even the most insistent appeals from national , state and local public officials  to निवासियों to evacuate  before the storm did not warn that the levees could breach and fail .
U.S.  कर्ज़ इससे  1940 to 2011 .
Red lines indicate  the  `` debt held by the public '' and black lines indicate the total national debt or gross public debt .
The difference is the `` intragovernmental debt , ''  which  includes obligations to government programs such as Social Security .
Stated as a formula , National Debt = Debt held by the  पब्लिक  + Intragovernmental Debt .
The second panel shows the two debt figures as a percentage of U.S. GDP  ( dollar value of  U.S. economic production for that year ) .
The top panel is deflated  so  every year is in 2010 dollars .
The United  राज्य  public debt is the money borrowed by the federal government of the United States through the issuing of securities by the Treasury and other federal government agencies .
US public debt consists of two  घटकs:
Debt held by the public includes  राजकोष प्रतिभूति  held by investors outside the federal government , including that held by individuals , corporations , the Federal Reserve System and foreign , state and local governments .
Debt held by government accounts or  intragovernmental कर्ज़  includes non-marketable Treasury securities held in accounts administered by the federal government that are owed to program beneficiaries , such as the Social Security Trust Fund .
कर्ज़ आयोजित by सरकारी खाते represents the संचयी surpluses , सहित ब्याज आय , of ये खाते कि have महरूम invested in राजकोष प्रतिभूति  .
Public debt increases or decreases as a result  of the सालाना  unified budget deficit or surplus .
The federal government budget deficit or surplus is the difference between government receipts  और बिता ,  ignoring intra-governmental transfers .
However , some spending that is excluded from the deficit ( supplemental appropriations ) also   adds to the debt .
Historically , the US public   debt as a share of GDP increased during wars and recessions , and subsequently declined .
लिये उदाहरण , कर्ज़  held by the public as a share of GDP peaked just after World War II ( 113 % of GDP in 1945 ) , but then fell over the following 30 years .
In recent decades , however , large budget deficits and the resulting increases in debt have led to  चिंता  about the long-term sustainability of the federal government 's fiscal policies .
On 2 April 2013 , debt  आयोजित by the पब्लिक थी  approximately $ 11.959 trillion or about 75 % of GDP .
Intragovernmental holdings stood at $ 4.846 trillion , giving a combined total public debt of $ 16.805   trillion .
As of January 2013 , $ 5.6 trillion or approximately 47 % of the debt held by the public was owned by foreign investors , the  largest of  which were the People 's Republic of China and Japan at just over $ 1.1 trillion each .
In basketball , an assist is attributed to a player who  गुजरता  the ball to a teammate in a way that leads to a score by field goal , meaning that he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket .
There is some judgment involved in deciding   whether a passer should be credited with an assist .
An assist can be scored for the passer even if the player who  receives the  pass makes a basket after dribbling the ball .
However , the original definition of an assist did not include such situations , so the comparison of assist  आंकडे आरपार eras  is a complex matter .
Only the pass directly before the score may be counted as an assist , so no more than one assist can be  अंकित  per field goal ( unlike in other sports , such as ice hockey ) .
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by free throws does not count as an assist in the NBA , but does in FIBA play ( only one assist is  awarded प्रति  set of free throws in which at least one free throw is made ) .
Point guards tend to get the most assists per game ( apg ) , as their role is primarily that of a  passer और  ballhandler .
Centers tend to get fewer assists , but centers with good floor presence and court vision can dominate  a team  by assisting .
Being inside the key , the center often has the best angles and the best position for ``   dishes '' and other short passes in the scoring area .
Center Wilt Chamberlain led the  एनबीए  in assists in 1968 .
A strong  center  with inside-scoring prowess , such as former NBA center Hakeem Olajuwon , can also be an effective assistor because the defense 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters .
The NBA single-game assist record is 30 , held by Scott Skiles  of the  Orlando Magic against the Denver Nuggets , on December 30 , 1990 .
The NBA record for most career assists is held by John Stockton with 15,806   .
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK , when discussing property taxes in the United States , or previously in Cyprus and Malta ) is a now-abstract unit of currency used sometimes in  हिसाब .
In the United  राज्य  , it is a notional unit equivalent to of a United States dollar ( a tenth of a cent ) .
In the United Kingdom it was proposed during the decades of discussion on the decimalization  of the  pound as a division of the pound sterling .
Several other currencies used the mill , such as the Maltese   lira .
The term comes from the Latin ``  millesimum '' , अर्थ  `` thousandth part '' .
The Greco-Persian Wars ( also often called the Persian   Wars ) were a series of conflicts between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia and city-states of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC .
The collision between the fractious political world of the Greeks and the  विशाल  empire of the Persians began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC .
Struggling to rule the independent-minded cities of Ionia ,  the फारसियों नियुक्त  tyrants to rule each of them .
This  होता  prove to be the source of much trouble for the Greeks and Persians alike .
In 499 BC , the then tyrant of Miletus , Aristagoras , embarked on an expedition to conquer the island of Naxos , with Persian support ; however , the expedition was a debacle and , pre-empting his dismissal , Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against  the फारसियों  .
This was   the beginning of the Ionian Revolt , which would last until 493 BC , progressively drawing more regions of Asia Minor into the conflict .
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and Eretria , and in 498 BC these forces helped to capture and burn the  पारसी क्षेत्रीय पूंजी  of Sardis .
The Persian king Darius the Great vowed to have   revenge on Athens and Eretria for this act .
The revolt continued , with the two  पहलू  effectively stalemated throughout 497–495 BC .
In 494 BC , the Persians regrouped , and attacked the epicentre of the  विद्रोह  in Miletus .
At the Battle of Lade , the Ionians suffered a decisive defeat , and the rebellion collapsed , with the final members  होने  stamped out the following year .
Seeking to secure his empire from further revolts and from the interference of the mainland Greeks , Darius embarked on a  योजना to जीतें यूनानियों  and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis .
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC , with the Persian  general Mardonius  conquering Thrace and Macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign .
In 490 BC a second force was sent to Greece , this time across the Aegean Sea  , अंतर्गत the कमांड  of Datis and Artaphernes .
This expedition  subjugated  the Cyclades , before besieging , capturing and razing Eretria .
However , while en route to attack Athens , the Persian force was decisively defeated by the Athenians at the Battle of Marathon , ending Persian efforts for the   time being .
Darius then  began to योजना to पूरा  the conquest of Greece , but died in 486 BC and responsibility for the conquest passed to his son Xerxes I .
In 480 BC , Xerxes personally led the   second Persian invasion of Greece with one of the largest ancient armies ever assembled .
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by Sparta and Athens ) at the Battle of Thermopylae allowed the Persians to torch Athens and  overrun  most of Greece .
However , while seeking to destroy the combined Greek fleet , the Persians  suffered  a severe defeat at the Battle of Salamis .
The following year , the confederated Greeks went on the offensive , defeating the   Persian army at the Battle of Plataea , and ending the invasion of Greece .
The allied Greeks followed up their success by destroying the rest of the Persian fleet at the Battle of Mycale , before expelling Persian garrisons from  sestos  ( 479 BC ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ) .
The actions of the general Pausanias at the siege of Byzantium alienated many of the Greek states from the Spartans , and the anti-Persian alliance  was therefore  reconstituted around Athenian leadership , as the so-called Delian League .
The Delian League continued to campaign against Persia for the next three decades  , शुरूआत साथ the expulsion of  the remaining Persian garrisons from Europe .
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 BC , the League won a double  विजय  that finally secured freedom for the cities of Ionia .
However , the League 's involvement in an Egyptian  विद्रोह ( इससे 460–454  BC ) resulted in a disastrous defeat , and further campaigning was suspended .
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 BC , but achieved   little , and when it withdrew the Greco-Persian Wars drew to a quiet end .
Some  ऐतिहासिक स्त्रोत सुझाएँ the समाप्त  of hostilities was marked by a peace treaty between Athens and Persia , the so-called Peace of Callias .
Hooverville near  पोर्टलैंड  , Oregon
A ``  hooverville  '' is the popular name for shanty towns built by homeless people during the Great Depression .
They were named after Herbert Hoover , who was President of the United States during the onset of the Depression and  widely blamed लिये it .
The term was coined   by Charles Michelson , publicity chief of the Democratic National Committee .
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born September 25 , 1975 ) is an American football quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts of  the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग  ( NFL ) .
He was drafted in the sixth round of the 1998 NFL Draft by the Green  खाड़ी पैकर्स  .
After a season on the practice  स्क्वाड और दो सीज़न बैकिंग  up Brett Favre , he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001 .
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003 , and led Seattle to six playoff appearances and a Super  Bowl  appearance ; he was selected to three Pro Bowls and an All-Pro selection .
following टेन सीज़न साथ the सीहॉक्स , hasselbeck joined the टेनेसी टाइटन्स in 2011 .
Hasselbeck then signed a contract with the Indianapolis Colts in 2013 less than  24 घंटों  after being released by the Tennessee Titans .
आईसीटी is inevitably सम्बन्धित to the कंप्यूटर संजाल .
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ) , is often used as an extended synonym for information technology ( IT ) , but is a more  विशिष्ट  term that stresses the role of unified communications and the integration of telecommunications ( telephone lines and wireless signals ) , computers as well as necessary enterprise software , middleware , storage , and audio-visual systems , which enable users to access , store , transmit , and manipulate information .
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s , but it became popular after it was used in a report to the UK government by Dennis  stevenson  in 1997 and in the revised National Curriculum for England , Wales and Northern Ireland in 2000 .
The term ICT is   now also used to refer to the convergence of audio-visual and telephone networks with computer networks through a single cabling or link system .
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the telephone  संजाल  ) to merge the audio-visual , building management and telephone network with the computer network system using a single unified system of cabling , signal distribution and management .
The term Infocommunications is used in some cases as a shorter form of  सूचना और संचार  ( s ) technology .
In fact Infocommunications is the expansion of telecommunications with information processing and content handling   functions on a common digital technology base .
For a comparison of these and other   terms , see .
For ICT  विकास  Index around the world , see .
This is a list of characters  इससे जार्ज  Lopez .
A schematic presentation of the plum pudding model of the atom ; in Thomson 's mathematical model the ``  corpuscles  '' ( or modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly , in rotating rings
The current model  of the  sub-atomic structure involves a dense nucleus surrounded by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J. Thomson , who discovered the electron in 1897 , was proposed in 1904 before  the discovery of  the atomic nucleus in order to add the electron to the atomic model .
In this model , the atom is composed of electrons ( which Thomson still called  `` corpuscles  '' , though G. J. Stoney had proposed that atoms of electricity be called electrons in 1894 ) surrounded by a soup of positive charge to balance the electrons ' negative charges , like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding `` .
The electrons ( as we know them today ) were thought to be positioned   throughout the atom , but with many structures possible for positioning multiple electrons , particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below ) .
Instead of a soup , the atom was also  sometimes कहा  to have had a `` cloud '' of positive charge .
With this model , Thomson abandoned his earlier `` nebular  अणु  '' hypothesis in which the atom was composed of immaterial vortices .
Now , at least part of the atom was to be composed of Thomson 's particulate negative corpuscles , although the rest of the positively charged part  of the अणु remained  somewhat nebulous and ill-defined .
The  1904  Thomson model was disproved by the 1909 gold foil experiment of Hans Geiger and Ernest Marsden .
This was interpreted by Ernest  रदरफोर्ड  in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a very  ऊँची धनात्मक चार्ज  ( in the case of gold , enough to balance about 100 electrons ) , thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom .
Although gold has an atomic number of 79 , immediately after Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius Van den Broek made   the intuitive suggestion that atomic number is nuclear charge .
The matter  जरूरी  experiment to decide .
Henry Moseley 's work showed experimentally in 1913 ( see Moseley 's law ) that the effective nuclear charge was   very close to the atomic number ( Moseley found only one unit difference ) , and Moseley referenced only the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford .
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the same year   , in which a nucleus containing an atomic number of positive charge is surrounded by an equal number of electrons in orbital shells .
bohr था भी प्रेरित moseley 's कार्य .
Thomson 's model was compared ( though not by Thomson ) to a British dessert   called plum pudding , hence the name .
Thomson 's paper was published in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine , the leading British science journal of the   day .
In Thomson 's view : ... the atoms of the elements consist of a number   of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of uniform positive electrification , ...
In this  मॉडल , the electrons  were free to rotate within the blob or cloud of positive substance .
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact that when an electron  स्थानांतरित दूर इससे the बीच  of the positive cloud , it felt a larger net positive inward force , because there was more material of opposite charge , inside its orbit ( see Gauss 's law ) .
In Thomson 's model , electrons were free to rotate in rings which were further stabilized by interactions between the electrons , and spectra were to be  accounted  for by energy differences of different ring orbits .
Thomson attempted to make his model account for some of the major spectral lines known for some elements , but  was not  notably successful at this .
Still , Thomson 's model ( along  with a  similar Saturnian ring model for atomic electrons , also put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka after James Clerk Maxwell 's model of Saturn 's rings ) , were earlier harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom .
Typical strip  of  bacon .
Bacon is a cured meat   prepared from a pig .
It is first cured using large quantities of salt , either in a  brine or in a शुष्क पैकिंग  ; the result is fresh bacon ( also known as green bacon ) .
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks   or months in cold air , or it may be boiled or smoked .
Fresh and dried bacon  is  typically cooked before eating .
Boiled bacon is ready to  खा , as is कुछ  smoked bacon , but may be cooked further before eating .
Bacon is prepared from several different cuts   of meat .
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork , except in the United States , where it is almost always prepared from pork belly ( typically referred to as `` streaky  '' , `` fatty ''  , or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ) .
The  पक्ष  cut has more meat and less fat than the belly .
Bacon may be prepared from either of two distinct back cuts : fatback , which is almost pure fat , and pork  loin ,  which is very lean .
Bacon-cured pork loin is known as back  बेकन  .
Uncooked pork  पेट  bacon strips .
Bacon may be eaten   smoked , boiled , fried , baked , or grilled , or used as a minor ingredient to flavor dishes .
Bacon is also used for barding and larding roasts , especially game ,  e.g . venison  , pheasant .
The word is derived from the Old High German bacho , meaning `` buttock '' , `` ham '' or `` side of  बेकन '' , और cognate  with the Old French bacon .
In continental Europe ,  इस भाग of the सुअर is प्रायः  not smoked like bacon is in the United States ; it is used primarily in cubes ( lardons ) as a cooking ingredient , valued both as a source of fat and for its flavor .
In  इटली ,  this is called pancetta and is usually cooked in small cubes or served uncooked and thinly sliced as part of an antipasto .
Meat from other animals , such as beef ,  मेमने , मुर्गा  , goat , or turkey , may also be cut , cured , or otherwise prepared to resemble bacon , and may even be referred to as `` bacon '' .
Such use is  आम in क्षेत्रों  with significant Jewish and Muslim populations .
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured belly of a swine carcass '' ; other cuts and  characteristics  must be separately qualified ( e.g. , `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ) .
लिये सुरक्षा , बेकन जरूर be treated to prevent trichinosis , caused by trichinella , a parasitic roundworm जिससे can be नष्ट by हीटिंग , जमने , drying , or  smoking .
Bacon is distinguished from salt pork and ham by differences in the brine ( or dry packing )   .
Bacon  brine रै added  curing ingredients , most notably sodium nitrite , and occasionally sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate ( saltpeter ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate are added to accelerate curing and stabilize color .
Flavorings such as  भूरा  sugar or maple are used for some products .
If used , sodium polyphosphates are added to improve sliceability and reduce  spattering  when the bacon is pan fried .
Today , a  brine लिये  ham , but not bacon , includes a large amount of sugar .
Historically , `` ham '' and `` bacon '' referred to different cuts of meat that were brined or packed identically , often together in   the same barrel .
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) ( , codified in part at ) is a federal law which establishes minimum standards for pension plans in private industry and provides  लिये extensive नियम on the संघीय  income tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans .
ERISA was enacted to protect the  रूचि of कर्मचारी  benefit plan participants and their beneficiaries by:
requiring  the disclosure of financial and other information concerning the plan to beneficiaries ;
Establishing standards of conduct for  योजना  fiduciaries ;
Providing for  उचित remedies  and access to the federal courts .
ERISA is sometimes used to refer to the full body of laws regulating employee benefit plans ,  जिससे  are found mainly in the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA itself .
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided among the Department of Labor , the Department of the Treasury ( particularly the Internal Revenue Service ) , and the Pension Benefit Guaranty  निगम  .
Illegal immigration to the United States is the act of foreign nationals entering the United States , without government permission and  in  violation of United States nationality law , or staying beyond the termination date of a visa , also in violation of the law .
A warning sign at the international boundary between the  संयुक्त  States and Canada in Point Roberts , Washington .
A much different approach at the U.S.-Mexico border near El  पासो  , Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the  बीच  for Immigration Studies to be about 11 million people , down from 12.5 million people in 2007 .
Other estimates range from 7 to 20  लाख  .
According   to a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center report , 56 % of undocumented immigrants were from Mexico ; 22 % were from other Latin American countries ; 13 % were from Asia ; 6 % were from Europe and Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world .
Alvin Independent  स्कूल ज़िला  is a school district based in Alvin , Texas ( USA ) .
Alvin ISD is a large suburban school district south of Houston in the communities of Alvin , Manvel , Pearland , Hillcrest , Rosharon , Iowa  उपनिवेश , लिवरपूल , और  Amsterdam .
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing western portion of the city including the new large master-planned communities of Shadow Creek Ranch , South Fork , and  दक्षिणी trails  .
Alvin ISD covers of  जमीन  .
In human anatomy , the ulnar nerve is a nerve which runs near  the ulna अस्थि  .
The ulnar collateral ligament of elbow joint  is  in relation with the ulnar nerve .
The nerve is the largest  unprotected  nerve in the human body ( meaning unprotected by muscle or bone ) , so injury is common .
This nerve is directly connected to the little finger , and the adjacent half of the ring finger , supplying the palmar side of these fingers , including both front and back of the tips ,  शायद as दूर वापस  as the fingernail beds .
One method of injuring the nerve is to strike  the medial epicondyle  of the humerus from posteriorly , or inferiorly with the elbow flexed .
The ulnar nerve is trapped between the bone and the overlying skin at this  पाइंट  .
This is commonly referred to as bumping  एक 's  `` funny bone '' .
This name is thought to be a pun , based on the sound resemblance between the name of the bone of the upper arm  , the ``  humerus `` and the word `` humorous `` .
Alternatively , according to the Oxford English  शब्दकोष it may refer to  `` the peculiar sensation experienced when it is struck '' .
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , shortened Hogwarts , is a fictional British school of magic for students aged eleven to eighteen , and is the primary setting for  the  first six books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series .
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ) , which she  था देखी at kew gardens कुछ समय  before writing the series , although the names `` The Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book How To Be Topp by Geoffrey Willans .
Hogwarts school  थी  voted as the 36th best Scottish educational establishment in a 2008 online ranking , outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School .
According to a director of the Independent  स्कूलों संजाल  Rankings , it was added to the schools listing `` for fun '' and was then voted on .
the u.S. subprime बंधक संकट थी a नियत of कार्यक्रम और शर्तें कि led to a वित्तीय संकट और subsequent मंदी कि began in 2008  .
It was characterized by a rise in subprime  बंधक delinquencies और foreclosures  , and the resulting decline of securities backed by said mortgages .
Several major  वित्तीय  institutions collapsed in September 2008 , with significant disruption in the flow of credit to businesses and consumers and the onset of a severe global recession .
There were many causes of the crisis , with commentators assigning different levels of blame to financial   institutions , regulators , credit agencies , government housing policies , and consumers , among others .
A  proximate कारण  was the rise in subprime lending .
The percentage of lower-quality subprime  mortgages originated दौरान  a given year rose from the historical 8 % or lower range to approximately 20 % from 2004 to 2006 , with much higher ratios in some parts of the U.S .
A high  प्रतिशत of ये subprime  mortgages , over 90 % in 2006 for example , were adjustable-rate mortgages .
These two changes were part of  a  broader trend of lowered lending standards and higher-risk mortgage products .
Further , U.S. households had become increasingly indebted , with the ratio of debt to disposable personal income rising from 77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007 , much of this increase  mortgage-related  .
When U.S. home prices declined steeply after peaking in mid-2006 , borrowers ' ability  to पुनर्वित्त उनके  loans became more difficult .
As adjustable-rate mortgages began to reset at higher interest rates ( causing higher monthly payments  ) ,  mortgage delinquencies soared .
Securities backed with mortgages , including subprime mortgages , widely held by financial  firms globally ,  lost most of their value .
Global investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed debt and other  प्रतिभूति as भाग of a मनाही in the  capacity and willingness of the private financial system to support lending .
चिंताएं परिचय the soundness of u.S. क्रेडिट और वित्तीय बाज़ार led to tightening क्रेडिट around the संसार और slowing आर्थिक विकास in the u.S. और  Europe .
The  संकट था  severe , long-lasting consequences for the U.S. and European economies .
The U.S. entered a deep  मंदी  , with nearly 9 million jobs lost during 2008 and 2009 , roughly 6 % of the workforce .
U.S.   housing prices fell nearly 30 % on average and the U.S. stock market fell approximately 50 % by early 2009 .
As of early 2013 , the U.S. stock market had recovered to its pre-crisis peak but housing prices remained near their low point and unemployment remained elevated   .
Economic growth remained below  pre-crisis  levels .
Europe also continued to struggle with its own  आर्थिक  crisis .
Carl  जंग in  1910 .
Myers and Briggs extrapolated their MBTI theory from Jung 's writings in  his  book Psychological Types .
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI ) assessment is a  psychometric प्रश्नावली  designed to measure psychological preferences in how people perceive the world and make decisions .
These  वरीयताओं  were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by Carl Gustav Jung and first published in his 1921 book Psychological Types ( English edition , 1923 ) .
Jung theorized that there are four principal psychological functions by which we experience the world : sensation ,  अंतर्ज्ञान , अहसास  , and thinking .
One   of these four functions is dominant most of the time .
the असली डेवलपर of the व्यक्तित्व inventory यहूद katharine कुक briggs और उसके बेटी , इसाबेल briggs मायर्स ; ये दो , having पढ़ाई extensively the कार्य of जंग , turned उनके ब्याज of इंसान बर्ताव into a भक्ति of turning the सिद्धान्त of मनोवैज्ञानिक प्रकार to व्यावहारिक  use .
They began creating the indicator during World War II , believing that a knowledge of personality preferences would help women who were  entering the industrial  workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective '' .
The  आरंभिक प्रश्नावली  grew into the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator , which was first published in 1962 .
The MBTI focuses on normal populations and emphasizes the value of naturally  occurring मतभेद  .
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have specific preferences in the way we construe our experiences , and these preferences underlie  our interests ,  needs , values , and motivation '' ( p. 499 ) .
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist   Lady Gaga , from her second studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ) .
It was released by Interscope Records on April 15 , 2011 , four days ahead of its   scheduled release .
Written and produced by  महिला गागा  and RedOne , `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her .
It embodies the incidents  that  have haunted Gaga in the past , and its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring one 's inner  darkness in  order to bring oneself into the light .
The artwork for the single was designed by Gaga in  microsoft  Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several  धार्मिक  groups , the song was generally well received by critics , who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single .
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous  redone-produced ट्रैक्स ,  including `` Poker Face `` , `` LoveGame `` , `` Bad Romance '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains three distinct hooks and a house -influenced  ब्रेक bas  .
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about  उसके as  beyond redemption , regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be .
``  यहूदा '' initially था a  strong sales opening , but was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles .
the सोंग पहुँचे  the top ten of the charts in most major music markets , and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea .
A music video for the song was filmed in April 2011 , co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann  गिब्सन और co-starring  Norman Reedus .
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga  played  Mary Magdalene .
The video portrays them as modern day missionaries  going to  Jerusalem .
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying   Jesus , and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious imagery and her  भूमिका in  the video .
However , critics generally praised  the  video , not finding any offensive content .
The video was nominated for two awards  at the  2011 MTV Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number  of television shows , including The  Graham Norton Show , Saturday Night Live , Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '' , the French X Factor as well as on The Ellen DeGeneres Show .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 , 1939April 1 ,  1984 ) ,  born Marvin Pentz Gay , Jr. , was an American singer-songwriter and musician .
Gaye helped  to shape  the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell , later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye  अंकित the अवधारणा एल्बम कया 's going on और let 's मिलेंगी it on और became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown to ब्रेक दूर इससे the बागडोर of इसके उत्पादन कम्पनी .
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R & B subgenres such as  शांत तूफ़ान और neo-soul  .
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the  जल्दी 1980s  , Gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye has been posthumously  सम्मानित  by many institutions , including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
The Academy Award for Best Picture is one of the Academy Awards of  Merit  presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to producers working in the motion picture industry and is the only category in which every member is eligible to nominate for .
Best Picture is considered the most important of the Academy Awards , as it represents all the directing , acting , music composing , writing , editing and   other efforts put forth into a film .
Consequently , Best Picture is   the final award and the conclusion of the annual Academy Awards ceremony .
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles , where the Academy Awards ceremonies have been held since 2002 , showcase every  film that has won the Best Picture  title since the award 's inception 85 years ago .
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure video game created by French developer Quantic  Dream  exclusively for the PlayStation 3 .
The game is  लिखा और निर्देशित  by Quantic Dream 's founder and CEO David Cage .
Heavy  Rains  story is a dramatic thriller modelled after film noir , featuring four protagonists involved with the mystery of the Origami Killer , a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims .
Ethan Mars is trying to save his son from being the next victim , while investigative journalist Madison Paige , FBI profiler Norman Jayden , and private detective Scott Shelby are each  trying to  track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity .
The player interacts with the game by performing  क्रियाएँ  highlighted on screen related to motions on the controller , and in some cases , performing a series of quick time events during fast-paced action sequences .
The player  's  decisions and actions during the game will affect the narrative .
The  प्रमुख वर्ण can be मारे , और निश्चित क्रियाएँ may सीसे to अलग दृश्यों और endings .
A   playable demo was released on 11 February 2010 .
The demo was released prior to this date for people who took part in a Four Day Challenge on 5  फ़रवरी  2010 .
a पैच to allow  use of the PlayStation Move controller to play the game was released in September 2010 .
Heavy Rain was critically acclaimed and has  sold over  two million copies .
It won 2010 's Game of the Year from   CNN and Gaming Union , and Best PS3 Game of 2010 by GameSpy and IGN .
A modified version of the game was released titled Heavy Rain Edition Modifiée exclusively in France , aimed  towards a  younger audience .
In 2010 , the game was included in the book 1001 Video Games You Must   Play Before You Die .
Total superannuation industry liabilities : members funds and reserves ( A $  लाखो  ) since 1988 .
Annual total superannuation industry asset  विकास 1996-2005  .
Superannuation in Australia refers to the arrangements which people  make in Australia to have  funds available for them in retirement .
In Australia ,  superannuation इंतजाम  are government-supported and encouraged , and minimum provisions are compulsory for employees .
लिये उदाहरण , नियोक्ता हैं जरूरी to अदा a proportion of an कर्मचारी 's salaries और मजदूरी ( फिलहाल 9 % ) into a superannuation निधि , लकिन लोगों हैं प्रोत्साहित to put aside अतिरिक्त निधि into superannuation  .
The  न्यूनतम दायित्व जरूरी  by employers is set to increase to 12 % gradually stepping annually from 2013 to 2020 .
An  व्यक्तिगत can withdraw निधि आउट of a superannuation निधि जब the व्यक्ति meets एक of the शर्तें of रिलीज contained in अनुसूची 1 of the superannuation उद्योग ( पर्यवेक्षण ) regulations 1994 .
This is a list of the characters from the American comedy-drama television series The   Game .
Electoral College map showing the results of the 2012 U.S. presidential election  .
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the popular vote in 26 states and the  District  of Columbia ( denoted in blue ) to capture 332 electoral votes .
Former Governor Mitt Romney ( R - MA ) won the popular vote in 24 states (  denoted in रेड )  to capture 206 electoral votes .
Cartogram representation of the  चुनावी  College vote for the 2012 election , with each square representing one electoral vote .
The United States Electoral College is the institution that officially elects the President and Vice President of the United  राज्य प्रत्येक चार  years .
The President and Vice President are not elected directly by  the मतदाता  .
बजाय , वे हैं निर्वाचित by `` निर्वाचक '' जो हैं चुनी by लोकप्रिय vote on a state-by-state आधार .
Electors are apportioned  to प्रत्येक राज्य और the ज़िला  of Columbia , but not to territorial possessions of the United States , such as Puerto Rico and Guam .
The number of electors in each state is equal to the number of members of Congress to which the state  is हकदार  .
the twenty-third  Amendment has always resulted in the District of Columbia having three electors .
There are 538 electors , based on there being 435  प्रतिनिधि  and 100 senators , plus the three electors from the District of Columbia .
Electors are pledged to particular presidential and vice presidential candidates , though unpledged electors are possible  .
In all states , except Maine and Nebraska ,  निर्वाचक हैं  elected on a `` winner-take-all '' basis .
That is , all electors pledged to the presidential  प्रत्याशी  who wins the most votes in a state become electors for that state .
Maine and Nebraska use the ``  congressional  district method '' , selecting one elector within each congressional district by popular vote and selecting the remaining two electors by a statewide popular vote .
Although no elector is required by federal law to honor a pledge , there have only been very few occasions when an elector voted contrary to a pledge   .
The Twelfth   Amendment specifies how a President and Vice President are elected and requires each elector to cast one vote for President and another vote for Vice President .
Critics argue that the Electoral College is inherently undemocratic and  देता  swing states disproportionate influence in electing the President and Vice President .
The Electoral College gives a numeric advantage in the election of the president to the smaller states , as the minimum number of electors for the  small states is three  compared to one for the election of representatives .
On the other hand , the winner-take-all method of voting favors the larger  राज्य  .
A number of  संवैधानिक amendments  have been proposed seeking to alter the Electoral College or replace it with a direct popular vote .
Barack Hussein Obama II ( ;  born अगस्त 4 , 1961  ) is the 44th and current President of the United States , the first African American to hold the office .
Born in Honolulu , Hawaii , Obama is a graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School , where  he was president  of the Harvard Law Review .
He was a community organizer in  शिकागो  before earning his law degree .
He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and  सिखाया संवैधानिक  law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004 .
He served  तीन शर्तें  representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004 , running unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives in 2000 .
In 2004 ,  ओबामा प्राप्त नेशनल  attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate with his victory in the March Democratic Party primary , his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July , and his election to the Senate in November .
He began his presidential campaign in 2007 , and in 2008 , after a close  प्राथमिक अभियान विरूद्ध  Hillary Rodham Clinton , he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination .
He then defeated Republican nominee John McCain in the general election , and was inaugurated as   president on January 20 , 2009 .
Nine months later , Obama was named the 2009 Nobel  सलाम  Prize laureate .
he थी re-elected अध्यक्ष in नवम्बर 2012 , defeating रिपब्लिकन nominee mitt romney , और थी sworn in लिये a दूसरी  term on January 20 , 2013 .
Early in his first term in office , Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation in response to the Great Recession in the form of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Tax Relief  ,  Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization , and Job Creation Act of 2010 .
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act , often referred to  as `` obamacare '' ; the dodd–frank  Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ; the Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 .
In May 2012 , he became the first sitting U.S. president to publicly support same-sex marriage and in 2013 his administration filed briefs which urged  the  Supreme Court to rule in favor of same-sex couples in two high-profile cases .
in विदेशी नीति , ओबामा ended u.S. सैन्य भागीदारी in the इराकी युद्ध , increased troop स्तर in अफगानिस्तान , हस्ताक्षरित the नई प्रारंभ बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ रूस , ordered u.S. सैन्य भागीदारी in लीबिया , और ordered the सैन्य आपरेशन कि resulted in the  death of Osama bin Laden .
The Honda CBR1100XX Super Blackbird was a Honda motorcycle made from 1996  to 2007  .
The  बाईक थी  developed to challenge the Kawasaki Ninja ZX-11 as the world 's fastest production motorcycle , and Honda succeeded with a top speed of .
Two  सालो  later the title passed to the Suzuki Hayabusa , which reached .
The Blackbird is named after the  लॉकहीड  SR-71 , also a speed record holder .
Sample view  of  an electronic health record based on images
नमूना  view of an electronic health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual  मरीजों or  populations .
It is a record in digital format that is theoretically capable of   being shared across different health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide   information systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a range of data , including demographics , medical history , medication   and allergies , immunization status , laboratory test results , radiology images , vital signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing information .
The Mariner up on the  mast  in a storm .
एक of the wood-engraved illustrations by gustave doré .
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner ( originally The Rime of the Ancyent Marinere ) is the longest major poem by the English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge , written in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in  the पहला संस्करण  of Lyrical Ballads .
Modern editions use a later  संशोधित  version printed in 1817 that featured a gloss .
Along with other poems in Lyrical Ballads , it was a signal shift to modern poetry and the beginning   of British Romantic literature .
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file  defines कैसा वेब browsers और अन्य  user agents can automatically choose the appropriate proxy server ( access method ) for fetching a given URL .
A PAC file contains a JavaScript  फलन  “FindProxyForURL ( url , host ) ” .
This function returns a string with one or more access method   specifications .
ये विशेषताएँ  cause the user agent to use a particular proxy server or to connect directly .
Multiple specifications provide a  fall-back  when a proxy fails to respond .
The browser fetches this PAC file  पहले requesting  other URLs .
The URL of the PAC file is either configured manually or determined  automatically by  the Web Proxy Autodiscovery Protocol .
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1 , 1996 ) , known mononymously as Zendaya , is an  अमरीकी  actress , singer and dancer .
she stars on the Disney Channel  sitcom शेक  It Up as Rocky Blue .
वो रै स्ट्रक्चर in दो films और निभाई एक of the सीसे भूमिकाएँ in the फिल्मी frenemies as हैली ब्रैंडन .
She voiced Fern in the  pixie  Hollow Games .
She appeared in  शुभ लक चार्ली as  Rocky Blue and in a Good Luck Charlie and Shake It Up crossover title Charlie Shake It Up .
She appeared on  prankstars  as herself in the episode `` Walk The Prank '' and on A.N.T . Farm as Sequoia Jones in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT . ''
Zendaya  is  also a musician .
She signed a deal with Hollywood Records on  अगस्त  8 , 2012 and started recording songs for her debut album on August 12 , 2012 .
She released a single from an   independent label called `` Swag It Out `` and another single with Bella Thorne called `` Watch Me , '' which is featured on the Break It Down album .
On March 20 , 2012 , Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an album together called Shake It Up : Live 2 Dance , each have  their own song on  it , along with a mash-up of both songs together as one .
On August 21 , 2012 , Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an EP called Shake It Up : Made  In  Japan .
Zendaya has a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake , ''  जिससे  is on the Disney Channel Holiday Playlist CD , which was released on October 2 , 2012 .
On March 5 ,  2013 the  third Shake It Up soundtrack was released , entitled I < 3 Dance ; on it , Zendaya has two songs with Bella - `` Contagious Love '' and `` This Is My Dance Floor '' - as well as one solo song , `` Beat of My Drum . ''
This  is a list  of airports in Pennsylvania ( a U.S. state ) , grouped by type and sorted by location .
It contains all public-use and military airports in the state   .
Some private-use and former airports may be included where notable , such as airports that were  previously public-use  , those with commercial enplanements recorded by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code .
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and  वितरित by ठहराना inc . originally  released in 2007 for the iPhone and iPod Touch platforms , it has been extended to support other Apple devices such as the iPad and Apple TV .
Unlike  microsoft 's खिड़कियाँ  Phone and Google 's Android , Apple does not license iOS for installation on non-Apple hardware .
, Apple 's App Store contained more than 700,000  आईओएस अनुप्रयोग , जिससे  have collectively been downloaded more than 30 billion times .
It had a 21 % share of the smartphone mobile operating system units shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012 , behind only  google 's  Android .
In June 2012 , it accounted   for 65 % of mobile web data consumption ( including use on both the iPod Touch and the iPad ) .
At the half of 2012 , there were 410 million  डिवाइस  activated .
According to the special  media event  held by Apple on September 12 , 2012 , 400 million devices have been sold through June 2012 .
The user  इंटरफ़ेस of आईओएस is  based on the concept of direct manipulation , using multi-touch gestures .
Interface control elements consist of sliders , switches  ,  and buttons .
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe , tap , pinch , and reverse pinch , all of which have specific definitions within the context of the iOS  ऑपरेटिंग  system and its multi-touch interface .
Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to respond  to shaking the device ( one common result  is the undo command ) or rotating it in three dimensions ( one common result is switching from portrait to landscape mode ) .
आईओएस is निकला इससे os x , साथ जिससे it साझा the डार्विन न्यास .
iOS is Apple 's mobile version of the OS X operating system used   on Apple computers .
In iOS , there are four abstraction  layers  : the Core OS layer , the Core Services layer , the Media layer , and the Cocoa Touch layer .
The current version of the operating system ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the device 's flash memory for the system partition , using roughly 800 MB of that partition (  varying  by model ) for iOS itself .
iOS  फिलहाल रनों on iphone  , iPad , iPod touch and Apple TV .
The Plymouth Superbird is famous for its  अत्यधिक  high rear wing .
1987 Audi Sport  quattros1  with its large wings at Pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic device whose intended design function is to 'spoil ' unfavorable air movement across a body  of a vehicle in motion , usually  described as turbulence or drag .
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams , because in addition to  directing एयर प्रवाह वे भी reduce  the amount of air flowing underneath the vehicle which generally reduces aerodynamic lift and drag .
Spoilers are often fitted to race and  high-performance खेल गाड़ियाँ  , although they have become common on passenger vehicles as well .
Some spoilers are added to cars primarily for styling purposes and   have either little aerodynamic benefit or even make the aerodynamics worse .
विघ्न लिये गाड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः incorrectly उलझन साथ , or the पद प्रयुक्त interchangeably साथ , विंग्स  .
Automotive wings are devices whose intended design is to generate downforce as air passes around them , not simply  disrupt मौजूदा  airflow patterns .
Mario , who serves as Nintendo 's mascot , is a fictional character created by game designer Shigeru Miyamoto and voiced by  Charles  Martinet .
इस is a सूची of वीडियो खेल जहाँ the अक्षर मारियो plays a भाग , either as the समर्थक , विपक्षी , supporting अक्षर , as भाग of an ensemble डाल , as a कैमियो , or in a खेल भीतर  a game .
It does not include simple references to the character , such as the portraits of   Mario found in The Legend of Zelda : A Link to the Past .
The year indicated is the year the game was first released , most commonly in Japan  ; games were  sometimes released years later in other regions of the world .
The list includes ports  ,  remakes and compilations .
It does n't include any  आभासी कंसोल  re-releases .
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I Am A Man of Constant Sorrow '' ) is a  परंपरागत अमरीकी लोक  song first recorded by Dick Burnett , a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky .
The song was originally recorded by Burnett as `` Farewell Song '' printed in a Richard Burnett  songbook , circa  1913 .
An early version  was  recorded by Emry Arthur in 1928 ( Vocalion Vo 5208 ) .
Public interest in the song was renewed  बाद the रिलीज  of the 2000 film O Brother , Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central  भूमिका  in the film 's plot .
The song  थी भी शामिल in  the film 's highly successful , multiple-platinum selling soundtrack .
Josephson junction array chip developed by the  नेशनल  Bureau of Standards as a standard volt
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the SI derived unit for electric potential ( voltage ) , electric potential difference ,   and electromotive force .
The volt is named in honor of the  इतालवी physicist  Alessandro Volta ( 1745–1827 ) , who invented the voltaic pile , possibly the first chemical battery .
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo  हत्या  and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987 , before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination   ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne , and his wife , Sophie , Duchess of Hohenberg , were shot dead in  साराजेवो , by gavrilo  Princip , one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the assassination was  to ब्रेक बंद austria-hungary  's south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia .
The assassins  '  motives were consistent with the movement that later became known as Young Bosnia .
Serbian military officers stood   behind the attack .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević  , उसके righthand man प्रमुख vojislav  Tankosić , and Masterspy Rade Malobabić .
Major Tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and pistols   and trained them .
The assassins were given  अभिगम  to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the  कुंजी सदस्यों of the clandestine टनल  , and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested , tried , convicted and punished .
Those who were  गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया  were tried in Sarajevo in October 1914 .
The other conspirators were arrested and  tried  before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the top military conspirators .
Much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these two trials and  सम्बन्धित रिकॉर्ड  .
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of  संसार  War I one month later .
Mission San Juan Capistrano was a Spanish mission in Southern California  , स्तिथ  in present-day San Juan Capistrano .
It was founded on All  संतो ' दिन नवम्बर  1 , 1776 , by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan Order .
Named for Giovanni da  capistrano , a 15th सदी theologian और `` योद्धा पुजारी  '' who resided in the Abruzzo region of Italy , San Juan Capistrano has the distinction of being home to the oldest building in California still in use , a chapel built in 1782 .
Known alternately as `` Serra 's Chapel   '' and `` Father Serra 's Church , '' it is the only extant structure where it has been documented that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass .
One of the best known of the Alta California missions ( and one of the few missions to have actually been founded   twice—others being Mission San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ) .
The site was originally consecrated on October 30 , 1775 , by Father Fermín Lasuén ,  लकिन  was quickly abandoned due to unrest among the indigenous population in San Diego .
The success of  the उपनिवेश  is evident in its historical records .
Prior to the arrival of the missionaries ,  कुछ 550 natives यहूद बिखरे throughout  the local area .
By 1790 , the number of converted Christians  था grown  to 700 , and just six years later nearly 1,000 `` neophytes `` ( recent converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound .
1,649 baptisms were conducted that year alone , out of the total 4,639 souls  परिवर्तित between 1776 और 1847 .
More than 2,000 former inhabitants ( mostly Juaneño Indians ) are buried in unmarked graves  in  the Mission 's cemetery ( campo santo ) .
The remains of Father ( later Monsignor ) St. John O'Sullivan , who recognized the property 's historic value and working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its structures , are buried at  the प्रवेश to the  cemetery on the west side of the property , and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt .
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at the Mission :  fathers  José Barona , Vicente Fustér , and Vicente Pascual Oliva are all entombed beneath the sanctuary floor .
The Criolla or `` Mission grape , '' was first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783 , the first wine produced in Alta California emerged from the   Mission 's winery .
The Mission  डाला  a long period of gradual decline after secularization in 1833 .
numerous प्रयत्न यहूद बना over the सालो to restore the मिशन to इसके पूर्व महिमा , लकिन none मिले साथ ग्रेट कामयाबी जबतक the आगमन of पिता o'sullivan in  1910 .
Restoration efforts continue , and   `` Serra 's Chapel '' is still used for religious services .
About half-a-million visitors , including 80,000  स्कूल children ,  come to the Mission each year .
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are a renowned architectural   wonder , the Mission is perhaps best known for the annual `` Return of the Swallows '' which is traditionally observed every March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's Day ) .
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a favorite subject for many notable artists  , and has been  immortalized in literature and on film numerous times , perhaps more than any other mission .
In 1984 , a modern church complex was constructed just north  और वेस्ट of  the Mission compound and is now known as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano .
Today , the mission compound serves as a museum , with the Serra Chapel within the compound serving as a chapel  for  the mission parish .
Better Off Dead is a 1985 American teen romantic comedy film starring John Cusack and   written and directed by Savage Steve Holland .
It tells the story of high  स्कूल  student Lane Myer who is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him .
Mercedes-Benz Superdome  ( originally  Louisiana Superdome and commonly The Superdome ) is a sports and exhibition stadium , located in the Central Business District of New Orleans , Louisiana , USA .
Plans were drawn up in 1967 , by the New Orleans modernist architectural  कड़  of Curtis and Davis .
Its steel frame  कवर a  expanse .
Its dome is  बना of a lamella  multi-ringed frame and has a diameter of , making it the largest fixed domed structure in the world .
It is  home to the NFL 's New Orleans  Saints , the NCAA 's Division I-A Tulane Green Wave football team ( the largest football stadium in Conference USA ) , the State Farm Bayou Classic , the R+L Carriers New Orleans Bowl , the Allstate Sugar Bowl and , every fourth year , the BCS National Championship Game .
Because of the size and location in one of the major tourist destinations in the United States , the Superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of candidates being considered for major sporting events , such  as the Super Bowl and the Final  Four .
In 2005 , the Superdome gained  अंतरराष्ट्रीय ध्यान  of a different type when it housed thousands of people seeking shelter from Hurricane Katrina .
The building suffered extensive damage as a result of the storm , and was closed for many  महीने afterward  .
On October 3 , 2011 , it was announced   that German automaker Mercedes-Benz purchased naming rights to the stadium .
The new name  took  effect on October 23 , 2011 .
It is the third stadium that has naming  rights  from Mercedes-Benz ( and first in the United States ) , after the Mercedes-Benz Arena , the stadium of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart , in Stuttgart , Germany and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai , China .
Lobby  of  Jambo House
Giraffe   on the savannah at Jambo House
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is an African-themed deluxe resort at the  वॉल्ट डिज़्नी  World Resort .
It opened on April 16   , 2001 .
The resort is owned and operated by Walt Disney Parks and  रिसॉर्ट  .
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is located in the Animal  किंगडम रिज़ॉर्ट क्षेत्रफल  , adjacent to Disney 's Animal Kingdom .
It gives guests the opportunity to view  चरने वन्यजीव बाहर उनके  rooms and public areas in the resort within proximity of the animals , conveying the feeling of being in an African savanna .
the लोगों 's पार्टी , भी ज्ञात  as the `` Populists '' , was a short-lived political party in the United States established in 1891 during the Populist movement ( United States , 19th Century ) .
It was most important in 1892-96 , and then  rapidly  faded away .
Based among poor , white cotton farmers in the South ( especially North Carolina  , Alabama , and  Texas ) and hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ) , it represented a radical crusading form of agrarianism and hostility to banks , railroads , and elites generally .
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor unions , and   in 1896 the Democrats endorsed their presidential nominee , William Jennings Bryan .
The terms `` populist '' and  ``  populism `` are commonly used for anti-elitist appeals in opposition to established interests and mainstream parties .
Linguistic map of Nigeria ,  कैमरून  , and Benin .
चिह्न  in English , outside the University of Lagos
वहीँ हैं सैंकड़ों of भाषाएं बोला in सीरियल .
The major   languages are Yoruba , Hausa , Igbo , Edo , Fulfulde , Kanuri , and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria , English , the former   colonial language , was chosen to facilitate the cultural and linguistic unity of the country .
English , however , remains an exclusive preserve of the country 's urban elite , and is not widely spoken in rural areas , which comprise three quarters   of the countries population .
Nigeria 's linguistic  विविधता is a microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे , encompassing तीन प्रमुख अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं परिवारों : afroasiatic , nilo-saharan , और niger–congo .
Nigeria also has several as-yet unclassified languages , such as Cen Tuum , which may represent  a relic  of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families .
A series of events led to the  आक्रमण on पर्ल  Harbor .
War between Japan  and the  United States had been a possibility that each nation 's military forces planned for since the 1920s , though real tension did not begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan .
Over the   next decade , Japan expanded slowly into China , leading to all out war between the two in 1937 .
In 1940 Japan invaded French Indochina in an effort to embargo all imports into China , including war supplies  खरीदा इससे  the U.S .
This move prompted the United States to embargo all oil exports , leading the Imperial Japanese Navy to estimate that it had less than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support the existing plans  to seize oil resources in  the Dutch East Indies .
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the `` Southern Resource Area '' to add it to the Greater  East Asia  Co-Prosperity Sphere that Japan envisioned in the Pacific .
The Philippine   islands , at that time an American territory , were also a Japanese target .
The Japanese military concluded that an invasion of the  फिलीपीन  would provoke an American military response .
Rather than seize and fortify the islands , and wait for the inevitable US counterattack , Japan 's military leaders instead decided on the  pre-emptive पर्ल हार्बर आक्रमण , जिससे वे assumed  would negate the American forces needed for the liberation and reconquest of the islands .
नियोजन लिये the आक्रमण था begun in बहुत जल्दी 1941 , by admiral isoroku यामामोटो  .
He finally won assent from the Naval High Command by , among other things , threatening  to  resign .
The attack was approved in the summer at an Imperial Conference and again at a second Conference in the  पतन  .
simultaneously  over the year , pilots were trained , and ships prepared for its execution .
Authority for the attack was granted at the   second Imperial Conference if a diplomatic result satisfactory to Japan was not reached .
After  फाइनल स्वीकृति  by Emperor Hirohito the order to attack was issued at the beginning of December .
A common  दफ्तर  stapler
A common school  stapler
A  stapler is a  mechanical device that joins sheets of paper or similar material by driving a thin metal staple through the sheets and folding the ends .
Staplers are widely used in government , business , offices  , घरों  and schools .
The word ``  stapler  '' can actually refer to a number of different devices of varying uses .
In addition to joining paper sheets together , staplers can also be used in a surgical setting to join tissue together with surgical staples  to बंद a सर्जिकल  wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ) .
typically  , most staplers are used to join multiple sheets of paper .
Paper staplers come in two  पृथक  types : manual and electric .
Manual staplers are normally hand-held , although models that  are used while set  on a desk or other surface are not uncommon .
Electric   staplers exist in a variety of different designs and models .
Their primary operating function is to join large numbers of paper  चादरें  together in rapid succession .
Some electric  staplers can  join up to 20 sheets at a time .
Swallowing , known scientifically as deglutition , is the process in the human or animal body that makes something pass from the mouth , to  the pharynx ,  and into the esophagus , while shutting the epiglottis .
If this fails and the object goes through the trachea , then choking  or pulmonary aspiration can  occur .
In the human body it is controlled by the  swallowing  reflex .
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4 , 1792 – August 11 , 1868 ) , of  पेन्सिलवेनिया , थी a नेता of the  Radical Republican faction of the Republican Party and a fierce opponent of slavery .
He was one of  the सबसे  influential members in the history of Congress .
As chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee , Stevens , a witty , sarcastic speaker and  flamboyant पार्टी नेता , वर्चस्व  the House from 1861 until his death .
He wrote  much of  the financial legislation that paid for the American Civil War .
Stevens and Senator   Charles Sumner were the prime leaders of the Radical Republicans during the war and Reconstruction era .
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply since  उसके मौत as interpretations  of Reconstruction have changed .
Historians of the Dunning School ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding harsh treatment of the white South and violating  अमरीकी परंपराओं of republicanism , depicting स्टीवंस as a विलेन लिये उसके वकालत of हर्ष  measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates .
इस  highly negative characterization held sway into the 1950s .
The rise of the neo-abolitionist school in the 1950s led to a strong positive appreciation of Stevens ' work on civil rights for  freedmen  .
A recent biographer characterizes him as , `` The Great Commoner , savior of free public education in Pennsylvania , national Republican leader in the struggles against slavery in the United States and intrepid mainstay of the attempt to secure racial justice for the  freedmen  during Reconstruction , the only member of the House of Representatives ever to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress . ''
Overview of the  अनुवाद  of eukaryotic messenger RNA
Diagram showing the translation of mRNA  and the  synthesis of proteins by a ribosome
In molecular  जीवविज्ञान और  genetics , translation is the process through which cellular ribosomes manufacture proteins .
It is part of the process of gene  अभिव्यक्ति  .
In translation , messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by transcription is  decoded by the  ribosome to produce a specific amino acid chain , or polypeptide , that will later fold into an active protein .
in जीवाणु , अनुवाद occurs in the कोशिका 's कोशिकाद्रव्य , जहाँ the विशाल और छोटी subunits of the राइबोसोम हैं स्तिथ , और bind to the  mRNA .
In eukaryotes , translation occurs across the membrane  of the  endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial synthesis .
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the binding of tRNAs  साथ पूरक anticodon  sequences to that of the mRNA .
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are   chained together into a polypeptide as the mRNA passes through and is `` read '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock ticker and ticker tape .
in अनेक उदाहरण  , the entire ribosome/mRNA complex binds to the outer membrane of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and releases the nascent protein polypeptide inside for later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell .
Many types of transcribed RNA , such as transfer RNA , ribosomal RNA , and small nuclear RNA , do not undergo  अनुवाद  into proteins .
Translation proceeds in four phases :  initiation , elongation , translocation and  termination ( all describing the growth of the amino acid chain , or polypeptide that is the product of translation ) .
Amino acids are brought   to ribosomes and assembled into proteins .
In activation , the   correct amino acid is covalently bonded to the correct transfer RNA ( tRNA ) .
The amino acid is joined by its carboxyl   group to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond .
When the tRNA has an amino acid  linked to  it , it is termed `` charged '' .
Initiation involves  the छोटी  subunit of the ribosome binding to the 5 ' end of mRNA with the help of initiation factors ( IF ) .
Termination of  the polypeptide  happens when the A site of the ribosome faces a stop codon ( UAA , UAG , or UGA ) .
No tRNA can   recognize or bind to this codon .
Instead , the stop codon induces the binding of a release factor  प्रोटीन  that prompts the disassembly of the entire ribosome/mRNA complex .
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin , cycloheximide , chloramphenicol  , tetracycline ,  streptomycin , erythromycin , and puromycin , among others .
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic  ribosomes  , and thus antibiotics can specifically target bacterial infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells .
A multimedia message on a   mobile phone .
Multimedia Messaging Service ( MMS ) is a standard  रास्ता to भेजें संदेश  that include multimedia content to and from mobile phones .
It extends the core SMS ( Short Message Service )  काबिलियत  that allowed exchange of text messages only up to 160 characters in length .
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets , although it is also popular as a method of delivering news and entertainment content including videos , pictures , text  पृष्ठों और ringtones  .
The standard is developed by the Open Mobile Alliance ( OMA ) ,  हालांकि  during development it was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups .
Smallpox was an infectious disease unique to  इंसानो , caused by either  of two virus variants , Variola major and Variola minor .
The disease is also known by the Latin names Variola or Variola vera ,  निकला इससे varius ( `` spotted ''  ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ) .
The disease was originally known in English as the `` pox '' or `` red plague '' ; the term `` smallpox '' was first used in Britain in the 15th century to distinguish variola from  the ``  great pox '' ( syphilis ) .
the पिछला naturally  occurring case of smallpox ( Variola minor ) was diagnosed on 26 October 1977 .
Smallpox localized in small blood vessels of the skin and  in the  mouth and throat .
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular rash  and , later , raised  fluid-filled blisters .
V. major produces a more serious disease and has an  overall मृत्यु रेट  of 30–35 % .
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also known  as alastrim  , cottonpox , milkpox , whitepox , and Cuban itch ) which kills about 1 % of its victims .
Long-term   complications of V. major infection include characteristic scars , commonly on the face , which occur in 65–85 % of survivors .
Blindness resulting from corneal ulceration and scarring , and limb deformities due to arthritis and osteomyelitis are less  common  complications , seen in about 2–5 % of cases .
Smallpox is believed to  have  emerged in human populations about 10,000 BC .
The earliest physical evidence of it is  संभवतः  the pustular rash on the mummified body of Pharaoh Ramses V of Egypt .
The disease  मारे an अनुमानित 400,000  Europeans annually during the closing years of the 18th century ( including five reigning monarchs ) , and was responsible for a third of all blindness .
Of all those infected , 20–60 % —and over 80 % of infected children—died from  the  disease .
Smallpox was  जिम्मेदार  for an estimated 300–500 million deaths during the 20th century .
As recently as 1967 , the World Health  संगठन  ( WHO ) estimated that 15 million people contracted the disease and that two million died in that year .
After vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries , the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979   .
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated , the other being rinderpest , which was declared  eradicated  in 2011 .
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' is  a सोंग  by the English rock band the Beatles .
Written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney , and recorded in October 1963 , it was the first Beatles record to be  बना using four-track  equipment .
With advance orders exceeding one million copies in the United Kingdom , `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' would ordinarily have gone straight to the top of the British record charts on its day of release ( 29 November 1963 ) had it not been blocked by the group 's first million seller `` She Loves You `` , the Beatles ' previous UK single , which was having a resurgent spell in the top position  following  intense media coverage of the group .
Taking two weeks to dislodge its predecessor , `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' stayed at number one  लिये पाँच  weeks and remained in the UK top fifty for twenty-one weeks in total .
It was also the group 's first American number one , entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18  जनवरी 1964 at क्रमांक forty-five और starting the अंग्रेजों  invasion of the American music industry .
By 1 February it held the number one spot — for seven  सप्ताह — पहले  being replaced by `` She Loves You '' , a reverse scenario of what had occurred in Britain , and remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks .
`` I  want to थाम  Your Hand '' became the Beatles ' best-selling single worldwide .
A gasser was a type of  hot लाठी originating on the dragstrips of the संयुक्त राज्य in the लेट 1950s और जारी जबतक the जल्दी 1970s .
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s , which have been stripped of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide better weight distribution on acceleration ( Beam axles are also lighter than an independent front suspension ) ,  हालांकि  a raised stock front suspension is common as well .
Common weight reduction  तकनीकों शामिल  fiberglass body panels , stripped interiors and plexiglass windows ( sometimes color tinted ) .
Because they were primarily built for racing , these cars typically had the engine swapped to a larger or more powerful  one ,  the existing stock engine modified ( often heavily ) or both .
It was very common to fit a   Roots supercharger and mechanical fuel injection , such as one from Algon , Hilborn , or Crower .
With form being   dictated by function , their appearance is often very top heavy and ungainly , largely due to front ends being raised higher than stock , to assist in the weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ) .
Having their exhaust pipes exit through the  सामने फेंडर खूब  is a common characteristic of gassers , as is having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes , pearls , and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts .
The name arose because they competed in a gasoline -fueled drag racing class , rather than one using methanol   or nitromethane .
The gasser is the   predecessor of the modern Funny Car .
Twelve-lead EKG  of a  26-year-old male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic (   across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical activity of the heart over a period of time , as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of the skin and recorded by a device external to the body .
The recording produced by this   noninvasive procedure is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ) .
An ECG is used to measure the rate and  नियमितता of heartbeats , as खूब as the आकार और स्थिति of the कक्षों , the उपस्थिति of कोई क्षति to the दिल , और the प्रभाव of दवाएँ or डिवाइस प्रयुक्त to विनियमित the दिल , ऐसे as a pacemaker .
Most ECGs are performed for  निदान  or research purposes on human hearts , but may also be performed on animals , usually for diagnosis of heart abnormalities or research .
Donald John Trump , Sr. ( born June 14 , 1946 ) is an American business magnate  ,  television personality and author .
He is the chairman and president of The Trump Organization and  the संस्थापक  of Trump Entertainment Resorts .
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle , outspoken manner , and role on the NBC reality show The Apprentice have made him a  well-known  celebrity who was No . 14 on the 2012 Forbes Celebrity 100 list .
Trump  is  the son of Fred Trump , a wealthy New York City real-estate developer .
He worked for his father 's firm , Elizabeth Trump & Son , while attending the Wharton School of  the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया  , and in 1968 officially joined the company .
He was given control of the company in 1971  और renamed  it The Trump Organization .
In 2010 , Trump expressed an interest in becoming a candidate for  अध्यक्ष of  the United States in the 2012 election , though in May 2011 , he announced he would not be a candidate .
In December 2011 , Trump was suggested as a possible vice presidential selection by Michele  bachmann  , if she were to win the Republican nomination .
`` A Change  Is Gon na Come '' is a  1964 single by R & B singer-songwriter Sam Cooke , written and first recorded in 1963 and released under the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964 .
Though only a modest hit for Cooke in comparison with his previous singles , the song came to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil  Rights  Movement .
The song has gained in popularity and critical acclaim in the decades since its release , and is # 12 on Rolling  स्टोन 's 500 महानतम  Songs of All Time .
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in  आइसलैंड  .
Geothermal energy is  थर्मल उर्जा  generated and stored in the Earth .
Thermal energy is the energy that determines  the  temperature of matter .
The Geothermal energy of the   Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the planet ( 20 % ) and from radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface , drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form  of ऊष्मा इससे  the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal originates  इससे  the Greek roots γη ( ge ) , meaning earth , and θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning hot .
at the कोर of the धरती , थर्मल उर्जा is निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय और temperatures may पहुँचें over 5000 °c ( 9,000 °f  ) .
Heat conducts from the core  to surrounding  cooler rock .
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt , creating magma  convection upward since  it is lighter than the solid rock .
The magma heats  चट्टान और जल  in the crust , sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ) .
From  hot स्रोतों , geothermal  energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide , about 10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal  power is online  in 24 countries .
An additional  28 gigawatts of direct  geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating , space heating , spas , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal power is cost effective , reliable , sustainable , and  environmentally  friendly , but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources , especially for applications such as home heating ,  खोलने a संभावित लिये  widespread exploitation .
Geothermal   wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth , but these emissions are much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels .
As a result , geothermal power has the  संभावित to सहायता  mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to  सप्लाई मानवता 's उर्जा needs , लकिन तभी  a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and exploration for deep resources   is very expensive .
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on  assumptions  about technology , energy prices , subsidies , and interest rates .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers would be willing to pay  a छोटी  more for a renewable energy source like geothermal .
But as a result of government assisted research and industry experience , the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two  दशकों  .
In 2001 , geothermal energy   cost between two and ten cents per kwh .
Ownership of property  may be निजी , सामूहिक , or आम और the प्रॉपर्टी may be वस्तुएँ , land/real एस्टेट , or बौद्धिक प्रॉपर्टी .
Determining ownership in law involves determining who has certain rights and  कर्तव्य over the प्रॉपर्टी  .
These rights and duties , sometimes called a 'bundle of rights ' ,  can  be separated and held by different parties .
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient philosophers ,  प्लेटो और अरस्तू  , who held different opinions on the subject .
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private property created divisive inequalities , while Aristotle ( 384 BC – 322 BC ) thought private property  सक्रिय लोगों  to receive the full benefit of their labor .
Private property can circumvent what is now  referred to as the “ त्रासदी of  the commons ” problem , where people tend to degrade common property more than they do private property .
Given a short-sighted owner , however , a private property system can make these tragedies worse—for example , a private owner of a piece of oil-rich property , depending on his worldview , might be more interested in short-term financial gain than incremental use with an eye toward other 's concerns ( e.g. , those of future  पीढियां , the  disenfranchised , etc . ) .
While Aristotle justified the existence of private ownership , he left open questions of ( 1 ) how to allocate property between what is private and common and ( 2 ) how  to allocate the private property within  society .
Over the millennia  , और आरपार संस्कृतियों  what can be property and how it is regarded culturally have varied widely .
Ownership is the basis  for many other concepts that  form the foundations of ancient and modern societies such as money , trade , debt , bankruptcy , the criminality of theft , and private vs. public property .
स्वामित्व  is the key building block in the development of the capitalist socio-economic system .
Adam Smith stated that one of  the  sacred laws of justice was to guard a person 's property and possessions .
The process and mechanics of ownership are fairly  जटिल : एक can लाभ  , transfer and lose ownership of property in a number of ways .
To acquire property one can purchase it  साथ धन  , trade it for other property , receive it as a gift , steal it , find it , make , it or homestead it .
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money , exchanging it for other property , giving it as a gift , being robbed of it , it , or having it stripped from one  's ownership  through legal means such as eviction , foreclosure , seizure , or taking .
Ownership is self-propagating in that the owner of any property  होगा भी अपना the आर्थिक लाभ of कि  property .
`` What 's My Name ? '' is a song recorded  by  Barbadian recording artist Rihanna , for her fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ) .
Featuring guest vocals from Canadian rapper Drake , the song was released as the second single from Loud on October 29  , 2010  through Def Jam Recordings .
The R & B song was produced by the Norwegian production duo StarGate , and was written by the duo along with  ester  Dean , Traci Hale , and Drake .
lyrically , it incorporates विषयवस्तु of यौन मैथुन और रोमांस .
Music critics gave the song positive reviews , citing it some of Rihanna 's best vocal work to date ; there was  a  praise regarding its romantic nature , as well as its sexual tones .
`` What 's My Name ? '' was a commercial success and topped the US Billboard Hot 100 chart , giving Rihanna her third number-one single  in 2010 , as खूब as उसके आठवीं  overall on the chart .
The song also topped the charts in Hungary and the United  किंगडम और पहुँचे the शीर्ष पाँच  in Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Norway and Slovakia .
The song received a nomination at the 54th Grammy Awards for Best Rap/Sung  सहयोग .
An accompanying music video , directed by Philip Andelman , portrays a romantic encounter between Rihanna and Drake in a grocery store along with  romantic scenes  between the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side .
`` कया 's my नाम ? '' थी प्रचारित साथ सजीव प्रदर्शन आरपार दोनो पहलू of the अटलांटिक , सहित शनिवार रात्रि सजीव in अमेरिका और the श्रेणी सात finale of the x फ़ैक्टर  in the United Kingdom .
The latter performance resulted in an investigation from the country 's media regulator , Ofcom , for the raunchy nature of  रिहाना  's outfit .
A mathematical constant is a  खास क्रमांक , प्रायः a रियल  number , that is `` significantly interesting in some way '' .
Constants arise in many different  क्षेत्रों  of mathematics , with constants such as e ( mathematical constant ) | and pi| occurring in such diverse contexts as geometry , number theory and calculus .
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '' , and what makes a constant `` interesting '' , is ultimately a matter of taste , and some mathematical constants are notable more  लिये ऐतिहासिक कारण than  for their intrinsic mathematical interest .
The  more  popular constants have been studied throughout the ages and computed to many decimal places .
All mathematical constants are  definable  numbers and usually are also computable numbers ( Chaitin 's constant being a significant exception ) .
Elections to the United States Senate were held on  नवम्बर  2 , 2010 , for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats .
( a  special election on January 19 , 2010 in Massachusetts was held earlier in the year . )
Thirty-four of the seats were for six-year terms to the  Senate 's `` class  three '' , and three were special elections for shorter terms .
Of the 37 elections , 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ) and 18 featured incumbent  Republicans ( eight  of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ) .
बाद  the previous elections ( in 2008 ) , the United States Senate was composed of 58 Democrats , 40 Republicans , and 2 independents who caucus with the Democrats .
Republicans won four seats held by retiring Democrats  और republicans  defeated two incumbent Democrats .
This was the largest number of Republicans gains since the 1994 elections and also the first time since that election that Republicans successfully  defended सब of उनके अपना  seats .
This was the fourth consecutive election of `` class 3 '' senators where Democrats have failed to gain seats and the third consecutive mid-term  चुनाव आयोजित  in a president 's first term where Republicans have picked-up seats .
Despite these Republican wins , however , the Democrats retained a majority of  the  Senate with 51 seats plus 2 independents who caucus with them , compared to the 47 Republicans .
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each year as the Sun reaches  इसके उच्चतम  or lowest excursion relative to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere .
As a result , on the day of the solstice , the Sun appears  to  have reached its highest or lowest annual altitude in the sky above the horizon at local solar noon .
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( sun ) and sistere ( to stand still ) , because at the solstices , the Sun stands still in declination ; that is , the seasonal movement of the Sun 's path ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing  दिशा  .
The   solstices , together with the equinoxes , are connected with the seasons .
In many cultures the solstices mark either the beginning or the  midpoint of शीत  and summer .
The term solstice can also be used in a  broader  sense , as the date ( day ) when this occurs .
The  दिन  of the solstice is either the longest day of the year ( in summer ) or the shortest day of the year ( in winter ) for any place outside of the tropics .
Jerry Lee Lewis (  born  September 29 , 1935 ) is an American rock and roll and country music singer-songwriter and pianist .
He is known by the nickname `` The Killer '' and is often viewed as “rock & roll 's  पहला ग्रेट जंगली man”  .
An early pioneer of rock and roll music ,  in 1956 Lewis made his  first recordings at Sun Records .
`` Crazy Arms `` sold 300,000 copies in the South , but it was his 1957 hit `` Whole Lotta Shakin  '  Going On `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide .
Lewis followed this in that same year when he recorded songs such as `` Great Balls of Fire `` , `` Breathless `` and `` High School  गोपनीय  `` .
Lewis sold more records than Elvis Presley at   this time .
however  , Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll career faltered in the wake of his marriage to his young cousin .
He had little success in the charts following the  कांड  and his popularity quickly faded .
His live performance fees plummeted from $  10,000 प्रति  night to $ 250 .
In  the meantime he थी संकल्पित to लाभ वापस कुछ of उसके लोकप्रियता .
During the early 60’s he did n't have much chart success with few exceptions such as ``  कया 'd  I Say `` .
His live performances  at इस समय  were increasingly wild and energetic .
His album Live at the Star Club , Hamburg from 1964 is often regarded by many music  पत्रकारों और प्रशंसक as एक of  the wildest and greatest rock and roll concert albums ever .
After   recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years with little success , in 1968 Lewis made a transition into country music and had hits with songs such as `` Another Place , Another Time '' .
This reignited  उसके करियर और  throughout the late '60s and '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts .
His # 1 country hits included `` To Make Love Sweeter For You `` , `` There Must Be  अधिक to प्रेम than इस `` , `` होता तुम लो another मौका  on Me `` and `` Me And Bobby McGee `` .
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he embraced his rock 'n ' roll past with songs such as a cover of the Big Bopper 's  `` chantilly फीता `` और ``  Rockin ' My Life Away `` .
In the 21st century Lewis continues to tour to audiences around the world and  स्टिल रिलीज  new albums .
One such album  , titled  Last Man Standing , is his best selling to date at over a million copies sold worldwide .
This was followed by Mean Old Man which has received some of the  बेहतरीन बिक्री of lewis’s  career .
Lewis has had a dozen gold records in both rock and country , won several Grammy  awards ,  including a Lifetime Achievement Award .
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986 , and  उसके pioneering  contribution to the genre has been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame .
In 1989 , his life was chronicled in the movie  ग्रेट  Balls of Fire , starring Dennis Quaid .
In 2003 , Rolling Stone Magazine listed his box set All Killer , No Filler : The Anthology number 242 on their list of `` 500 greatest albums  of all  time `` .
In 2004 ,  वे क्रमित  him number 24 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar  quartet  and the Class of '55 album , which also included Johnny Cash , Carl Perkins , Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley .
Henry  लुई  Stephens , untitled watercolor ( 1863 ) of a man reading a newspaper with headline `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery '' .
The Emancipation Proclamation was an order issued to all segments of the Executive branch ( including the Army and  नेवी ) of the  United States by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1 , 1863 , during the American Civil War .
It was based on the president 's constitutional authority as commander in chief of the armed forces ; it  थी नहीं  a law passed by Congress .
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate territory to be forever free , and ordered the Army ( and all segments of the Executive branch ) to treat as free   all those enslaved in ten states that were still in rebellion , thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S .
The Proclamation could not be  enforced  in areas still under rebellion , but as the army took control of Confederate regions , the slaves in those regions were emancipated rather than returned to their masters .
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion had already been subdued were immediately emancipated , and over 3 million more  यहूद emancipated as the संघ फौज  advanced .
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave states that were not in rebellion , nor to most regions already controlled by the Union army ; emancipation there would come after separate state actions and/or  the  December 1865 ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment , which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S .
The Proclamation  किया नहीं compensate  the owners , did not itself outlaw slavery , and did not make the ex-slaves ( called freedmen ) citizens .
It made the eradication  of  slavery an explicit war goal , in addition to the goal of reuniting the Union .
On September 22 , 1862 , Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state of the  confederate राज्य of अमेरिका  that did not return to Union control by January 1 , 1863 .
None returned , and the order , signed and  जारी जनवरी  1 , 1863 , took effect except in locations where the Union had already mostly regained control .
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race war , angered some Northern Democrats ,  सक्रिय anti-slavery  forces , and weakened forces in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy .
It also lifted the spirits of African Americans both in the Southern  और उत्तरी राज्य , और led to अनेक स्लेव escaping उनके  masters and running behind Union lines in order to have their emancipation enforced .
Sucker Punch is a 2011 American fantasy action film  निर्देशित  by Zack Snyder and co-written by him and Steve Shibuya .
It  is  Snyder 's first film based on an original script .
The film stars Emily  ब्राउनिंग , abbie  Cornish , Jena Malone , Vanessa Hudgens , Jamie Chung , and Carla Gugino .
The storyline follows the fantasies of a young woman who is committed to a mental institution  , as  she makes a plan to escape the hospital before suffering a lobotomy .
The film was released in both conventional and IMAX theatres in the United   States at midnight on March 25 , 2011 .
It received generally negative reviews from  आलोचकों  , but was a moderate box office success .
Front and back of Canon PowerShot A95 , a typical  pocket-size  digital camera
Haselblad 503CW with Ixpress V96C digital back , an example of a  पेशेवर  digital camera system
A digital  कैमरा ( or digicam ) is a कैमरा कि takes वीडियो or स्टिल छायाचित्र by रिकॉर्डिंग बिंब on an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक चित्र सेंसर .
Most cameras sold today are digital , and digital cameras are incorporated into many devices  ranging  from PDAs and mobile phones ( called camera phones ) to vehicles .
Digital and film cameras share an optical system , typically using a lens with a variable diaphragm to focus  लाइट onto  an image pickup device .
the diaphragm और शटर admit the सही राशि of लाइट to the imager , बस as साथ फिल्मी लकिन the चित्र पिकअप यंत्र is इलेक्ट्रॉनिक बल्कि  than chemical .
However , unlike film cameras , digital cameras can  प्रदर्शक  images on a screen immediately after being recorded , and store and delete images from memory .
Many digital cameras can also  रिकार्ड  moving video with sound .
Some digital cameras can crop and stitch pictures and   perform other elementary image editing .
The inside and front of a Dell PowerEdge web server , a computer designed for  रैक  mounting
Multiple web servers may be used for a high traffic  जालस्थल  , here four Sun Fire X4200 servers are installed together
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the  तन्त्र ( the कंप्यूटर  application ) that helps to deliver web content that can be accessed through the Internet .
The most common use of web servers is to host websites , but there are other uses such as gaming , data  भंडार  or running enterprise applications .
The American Red Cross ( ARC  ) , भी ज्ञात as  the American National Red Cross , is a humanitarian organization that provides emergency assistance , disaster relief and education inside the United States .
It is the designated U.S. affiliate of the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ of  Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies .
Today , in addition to domestic disaster relief , the American Red Cross offers services  in पाँच अन्य  areas : community services that help the needy ; communications services and comfort for military members and their family members ; the collection , processing and distribution of blood and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness , health , and safety ; and international relief and development programs .
Issued a corporate charter by the United States Congress under Title 36 of the United States  कोड  , Section 3001 , the American National Red Cross is governed by volunteers and supported by community donations , income from health and safety training and products , and income from blood products .
The   American Red Cross is headquartered in Washington , D.C .
The Chairman of the Board of Governors , serving her second   three-year term , is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter .
The current President and Chief Executive Officer  is Gail J.  McGovern .
A  मुर्गा in कोसोवो
A rooster  , प्रर्दशित  wattles , earlobes and comb
A rooster crowing ( with  ऑडियो  )
सही
A rooster ( also called a cockerel or cock ) is a male  gallinaceous  bird .
It usually  refers  to a male chicken ( Gallus gallus ) .
Immature male chickens less than one year  बूढ़ा  are called cockerels .
The term `` rooster '' originates   in the United States , and the term is widely used throughout North America , as well as Australia and New Zealand .
In the United Kingdom  and  Ireland the older term `` cockerel '' is more commonly used .
`` Cock '' is in general use as the name for a male of other  प्रजाति of बर्ड  , for example `` Cock sparrow '' .
``  roosting '' is the कार्रवाई of perching aloft to नींद at रात्रि , और is किया by दोनो लिंगों .
The rooster is polygamous , but can not guard several   nests of eggs at once .
He guards the general area where his hens are nesting , and will   attack other roosters that enter his territory .
During the daytime , he usually sits on a high perch , usually  3–5 फीट बंद the मैदान  to serve as a lookout for his flock .
He will sound   a distinctive alarm call if predators are nearby .
The Pokémon Trading Card Game ( Pokémon TCG ) is a collectible card game based on the Pokémon video game series , first published in October 1996 by Media Factory  in जापानी  .
In the US , it  थी  initially published by Wizards of the Coast , the company that produces , in December 1998 .
Nintendo took over  प्रकाशन  in June 2003 .
It is one of  निन्टेंडो  's last remaining strong links to its heritage as a playing card company .
Land Rover is a British car manufacturer with its  मुख्यालय in gaydon , warwickshire  , United Kingdom which specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles .
It is part of the Jaguar Land Rover group , a subsidiary of Tata Motors  of  India .
It is the second oldest four-wheel-drive  car  brand in the world ( after Jeep ) .
The Land Rover name was originally used by the Rover Company for one  विशिष्ट  vehicle model , named simply the Land Rover , launched by Rover in 1948 .
Over the following years it developed into a marque encompassing a   range of four-wheel-drive models , including the Defender , Discovery , Freelander , Range Rover , Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque .
Land Rovers are currently assembled in the company 's Halewood and Solihull plants , with research and development taking place at JLR 's  gaydon और  Whitley engineering centres .
Land Rover sold 194,000 vehicles  विश्वव्यापी  in 2009 .
Although the brand   originates from the original 1948 model , Land Rover as a company has only existed since 1978 .
Prior to this , it was a product line of the Rover Company which was subsequently absorbed into the Rover-Triumph division of the British Leyland  मोटर  Corporation ( BL ) following Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover of Rover in 1967 .
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models , and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s well documented business troubles prompted the establishment of a separate Land Rover company  लकिन स्टिल अंतर्गत  the BL umbrella , remaining part of the subsequent Rover Group in 1988 , under the ownership of British Aerospace after the remains of British Leyland were broken up and privatised .
In 1994 Rover Group plc was acquired by   BMW .
In 2000 , Rover Group was broken-up  by bmw और जमीन रोवर  was sold to Ford Motor Company , becoming part of its Premier Automotive Group .
in 2006 घाट खरीदा the रोवर ब्रांड इससे bmw लिये around £6 लाख .
This reunited the Rover and Land Rover  ब्रांड्स  for the first time since 2000 when the Rover group was broken up by BMW .
In June 2008 , Ford sold both Land  रोवर और जैगुआर गाड़ियाँ  to Tata Motors .
इस  sale also included the dormant Rover brand
The cover of the first DVD compilation released by Aniplex of  the  New Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The ninth season of  the ब्लीच  anime series is named .
The series is based on Tite Kubo 's manga   with same name .
The episodes are directed by Noriyuki Abe and produced by TV Tokyo ,  dentsu , और स्टुडियो  Pierrot .
The episodes ' plot focuses on the introduction of a new Soul Reaper captain , Shūsuke Amagai , and the mystery surrounding the Kasumiōji clan , one of the families that   constitute the nobility of Soul Society .
The season began airing on April 23 , 2008 in Japan  on tv टोकियो  and ended on October 7 , 2008 .
The English adaptation of the Bleach anime is licensed by Viz Media , and this arc began airing  on August 28 , 2010 on  Cartoon Network 's Adult Swim , and finished on January 29 , 2011 .
Five DVD compilations , each containing  four  episodes of the season , have been released by Aniplex ; the first DVD compilation was released on November 26 , 2008 and the fifth on March 25 , 2009 .
A DVD box will be published by Viz Media on December 13 ,  2011  .
The episodes use three pieces of theme music : one opening  थीम  and two closing themes .
The opening theme is `` Chu-Bura  `` by kelun  .
The first closing theme is `` Orange '' by Lil'B , used for episodes 168 to 179 , and the second closing  थीम is `` gallop '' by  pe'zmoku , used for the remainder of the episodes .
The  विनियमन of वेश्यावृति  in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a  misdemeanor in the श्रेणी of पब्लिक  order crime , a crime that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one time considered to  be  a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to  allow  brothel prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8  काउंटी  currently contain active brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las   Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ) , Washoe County ( which contains Reno ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The  अन्य काउंटी  theoretically allow brothel prostitution , but some of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , ''  और जीना बंद of the  proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
As  साथ अन्य देशों  , prostitution in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The East Coast of the United States , also known as the Eastern  seaboard  or the Atlantic Seaboard and commonly shortened to East Coast , refers to the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic Ocean .
The states which have shoreline  on the ईस्ट coast हैं , इससे उत्तर to दक्षिण , the u.S. राज्य of maine , नई हैम्पशायर , मैसाचुसेट्स , rhode द्वीप , कनेक्टिकट , नई यॉर्क , नई जर्सी , डेलावेयर , मेरीलैंड , वर्जिनिया , उत्तर कैरोलिना , दक्षिण कैरोलिना , जॉर्जिया , और फ्लोरिडा .
Richard Milhous Nixon ( January 9 , 1913 – April 22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the  संयुक्त राज्य , सेवारत इससे 1969 to 1974  , when he became the only president to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and senator from California and as the  36th  Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in Yorba  लिंडा  , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937 , returning to California   to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , moved to   Washington to work for the federal government in 1942 .
He subsequently served in the United States  Navy  during World War II .
Nixon was elected in California to the House of Representatives in   1946 and to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading anti-communist , and elevated  him to national  prominence .
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952  चुनाव  .
Nixon served for eight  years  as vice president .
He waged an unsuccessful  अध्यक्षीय  campaign in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again for the  प्रेसिडेंसी  and was elected .
Although Nixon initially  escalated अमेरिका 's भागीदारी  in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's  विज़िट to the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972 खोली राजनयिक संबंध between the दो राष्ट्र , और he initiated détente और the anti-ballistic मिसाइल सन्धि साथ the सोवियत संघ the वही साल .
Domestically , his administration generally  embraced नीतियों कि transferred  power from Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed  wage and  price controls , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though  he presided  over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He was   re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other  misconduct by सदस्यों  of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on  अगस्त 9  , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
After his  इस्तीफा  , he controversially received a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement  ,  Nixon 's work as an elder statesman , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18 ,  1994  , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
Sertraline hydrochloride ( trade names Zoloft , Lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake  inhibitor  ( SSRI ) class .
It was introduced  to the  market by Pfizer in 1991 .
sertraline  is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive , panic , and social anxiety disorders in both adults and children .
In 2011 , it was the second-most prescribed antidepressant on the U.S. retail market , with 37,208,000  prescriptions  .
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to that of older tricyclic antidepressants , but its side effects are much  less  pronounced .
मतभेद साथ  newer antidepressants are subtler and also mostly confined to side effects .
Evidence suggests that sertraline may work better than fluoxetine  ( Prozac )  for some subtypes of depression .
Treatment of panic disorder with  sertraline परिणाम  in a significant decrease of the number of panic attacks and in improved quality of life .
For obsessive-compulsive disorder , sertraline is not as effective as cognitive behavioral therapy ;   the best results have been achieved by combining these two treatments .
Although approved for social phobia and posttraumatic stress  विकार , sertraline लीड to  only modest improvement in these conditions .
Sertraline also alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and can be used in sub-therapeutic doses  or  intermittently for its treatment .
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications  of other SSRIs ,  with high rates of nausea , diarrhea , insomnia , and sexual side effects ; however , it does not cause weight gain , and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild .
In pregnant women taking sertraline , the drug was present in significant concentrations   in fetal blood , and was also associated with a higher rate of various birth defects .
Similarly to other antidepressants , the use of sertraline for depression may be associated  साथ a उच्चतर रेट  of suicidality .
The Five Heartbeats is a  1991  musical drama film directed by Robert Townsend , who co-wrote the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans .
Distributed by 20th Century Fox , the film 's main cast includes Townsend , Michael Wright , Leon Robinson , Harry J. Lennix , Tico Wells , Harold Nicholas  of the  Nicholas Brothers , and Diahann Carroll .
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the lives of several artists : The Dells , The Temptations , Four Tops , Wilson Pickett , James Brown , Frankie Lymon , Sam  cooke और अन्य  ) follows the three decade career of the R & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats .
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired soul act through the eyes of the film 's main protagonist , Donald `` Duck '' Matthews ( portrayed by Townsend ) , who serves   as a narrator throughout the film .
However , a majority of the cinema is presented   in a consecutive time line as opposed to traditional flash backs .
The film includes a significant amount of original music conceived by various artists for the film 's soundtrack , including singles such as `` A Heart Is a House for Love `` , `` We Have n't Finished Yet '' ,  और `` nothing  But Love '' .
The film was released to most North American audiences March 29 , 1991 however it was not made available to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another DVD release in 2006   for the film 's 15th anniversary .
The movie received mixed reviews   from critics .
Secretariat  ( कूच 30 , 1970  – October 4 , 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years .
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ) , the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ) , and the Belmont  stakes ( 2:24 ) — रिकॉर्ड  that still stand today .
He is considered to be one of the greatest  thoroughbreds  of all time .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of   the 20th century , the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http .
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top  100 U.S.  Racehorses of the 20th Century .
Secretariat was sired by Bold Ruler out of  somethingroyal  , by Princequillo .
He was foaled at The Meadow in Caroline County ,  वर्जिनिया  .
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War , Secretariat was a large chestnut colt and was given  the वही  nickname , `` Big Red . ''
Secretariat 's grandsire , Nasrullah  , is भी the great-great-grandsire  of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by  पैनी chenery  , he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by Canadian jockey Ron Turcotte , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He  raced  in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat stood  लगभग लम्बा  , and weighed , with a 75-inch girth , in his racing prime .
A typical 12 V , 40 Ah  lead-acid  car battery
An automotive battery is a type of rechargeable battery that supplies electric  उर्जा  to an automobile .
Usually this refers to an SLI battery ( starting ,  lighting , प्रज्वलन  ) to power the starter motor , the lights , and the ignition system of a vehicle’s engine .
Automotive SLI batteries are usually  lead-acid  type , and are made of six galvanic cells in series to provide a 12 volt system .
Each cell provides 2.1 volts for a total of  12.6 वोल्ट  at full charge .
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors , often equipped with   diesel engines , may have two batteries in series for a 24 volt system , or may have parallel strings of batteries .
Lead-acid batteries are made up of plates of lead and separate plates of lead dioxide , which are submerged into an  electrolyte समाधान of परिचय 38 %  sulfuric acid and 62 % water .
This causes a chemical reaction that releases electrons , allowing them to flow through conductors to produce electricity   .
As the battery discharges , the acid of the electrolyte   reacts with the materials of the plates , changing their surface to lead sulfate .
When the battery is recharged , the chemical reaction is reversed : the lead sulfate reforms into lead   dioxide and lead .
With the plates restored to their  असली कंडीशन ,  the process may now be repeated .
Battery recycling of automotive batteries reduces the need for resources required for manufacture of new  बैटरी  , diverts toxic lead from landfills , and prevents risk of improper disposal .
Full-time employment is employment in which a person works  a  minimum number of hours defined as such by his/her employer .
Full-time employment often comes with benefits that are not typically offered to part-time , temporary , or flexible workers , such as  सालाना छोड़ , sickleave , और स्वास्थ्य बीमे  .
full-time  jobs are often considered careers .
They generally pay more than part-time jobs , and usually carry  अधिक घंटों प्रति सप्ताह  .
The Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) does not define full-time employment or   part-time employment .
This is a matter generally to  be  determined by the employer ( US Department of Labor ) .
The definition by employer can vary and is generally published in a  कम्पनी  's Employee Handbook .
Companies commonly require from 30–35 or 40 hours per week to be defined as full-time  and therefore  eligible for benefits .
Full-Time status varies between company and is often based on the shift the employee  जरूर  work during each work week .
The `` standard '' work week consists of five  eight-hour  days , commonly served between 9:00AM to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours .
While a four-day week generally consists of four  ten-hour दिनों  ; it may also consist of as little as nine hours for a total of a 36 hour work week .
Twelve-hour  शिफ्ट  are often three days per week , unless the company has the intention of paying out the employee overtime .
Overtime is legally paid out anytime an  कर्मचारी works  more than 40 hours per week .
The legal minimum for overtime starts at Base   Pay + One-Half .
The increased payout is considered to compensate slightly for the increased  थकान  which a person experiences on such long shifts .
Shifts can also be very irregular , as in retail , but are still full-time if the  जरूरी  number of hours is reached .
There are some situations where a person who needs full-time work is dropped to part-time , which is sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to  avoid  paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker .
Seahorse is the title given to 54 species of  समुद्री  fish in the genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus  '' आता इससे the  Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster '' .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by  the कॉंग्रेस  of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal  U.S.  drug policy under which the manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also served as the   national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The   legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ) , with varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000 , which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential  for abuse ( an undefined term  ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
Maya  numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal ( base - twenty ) numeral system used by the  pre-columbian  Maya civilization .
The numerals   are made up of three symbols ; zero ( shell shape ) , one ( a dot ) and five ( a bar ) .
For example , thirteen is written as three dots in a horizontal  पंक्ति ऊपर दो  horizontal lines stacked above each other .
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 – January 22 , 1973 ) , often referred to as LBJ , was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ) , a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice  अध्यक्ष of the  United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only  four people who  served in all four elected federal offices of the United States : Representative , Senator , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961 ,  सहित छह सालो as संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट  Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the   Democratic nomination in 1960 , Johnson was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22 , 1963 , completed Kennedy 's term and was elected President in his own right , winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater  in the 1964  election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld civil rights , public broadcasting ,  Medicare ,  Medicaid , environmental protection , aid to education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality  and the `` Johnson treatment  , '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War , from 16,000 American  advisors/soldiers in 1963  to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968 , as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially on university campuses  in the  U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965 , and crime rates soared  , as his opponents  raised demands for `` law and order '' policies .
The Democratic Party  विभाजित in  multiple feuding factions , and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary , he ended his bid for reelection .
Republican  रिचर्ड निक्सन थी निर्वाचित to सफल उसे .
Historians argue that Johnson 's presidency  चिह्नित the शिखर of आधुनिक  liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era .
Johnson is ranked favorably by some  इतिहासकारों  because of his domestic policies .
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione ) is a C-21 steroid hormone involved in the female menstrual cycle , pregnancy ( supports   gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species .
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormones called progestogens , and is the major naturally  occurring  human progestogen .
Big Bird is a protagonist of the  children 's टेलीविज़न  show Sesame Street .
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969 , he is an  eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm ) लम्बा  bright primrose-yellow bird .
He can  रोलर  skate , ice skate , dance , sing , write poetry , draw and even ride a unicycle .
But despite this wide  सरणी  of talents , he is prone to frequent misunderstandings , on one occasion even singing the alphabet as one big long word ( from the song called `` ABC-DEF-GHI , '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ) , pondering what it could ever mean .
He lives  in a विशाल  nest behind the 123 Sesame Street brownstone and has a teddy bear named Radar .
Webtrends is a private company headquartered in Portland  ,  Oregon , United States .
It provides web , social , and mobile analytics  and  other software solutions related to marketing intelligence .
The company was founded in 1993 and now  serves अधिक than 10,000  large and small firms. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second Crusade ( 1145–1149 ) was the second major crusade launched   from Europe .
The Second Crusade was started in  जवाब  to the fall of the County of Edessa the previous year to the forces of Zengi .
the काउंटी  had been founded during the First Crusade ( 1096–1099 ) by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098 .
While it was the first Crusader state to be founded  , it  was also the first to fall .
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope Eugene III , and was the first of the crusades to be led by European kings , namely Louis VII of  फ़्रांस  and Conrad III of Germany , with help from a number of other European nobles .
The armies of the two kings marched separately  आरपार  Europe .
बाद क्रासिंग बीज़ान्टिन territory into आनातोलिया , दोनो सेना यहूद separately पराजित by the seljuq turks .
The main Western Christian source , Odo of Deuil , and Syriac Christian sources claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus  secretly  hindered the crusaders ' progress , particularly in Anatolia where he is alleged to have deliberately ordered Turks to attack them .
Louis and Conrad and the remnants of their armies reached Jerusalem and , in 1148 , participated in an ill-advised attack on  दमिश्क  .
The crusade in the east was a  विफलता लिये  the crusaders and a great victory for the Muslims .
It would ultimately have a key influence on the fall of Jerusalem and give rise to the Third Crusade at the end of the 12th  सदी  .
The only success of the Second Crusade came to a combined force of 13,000 Flemish , Frisian , Norman , English , Scottish ,  और जर्मनी crusaders  in 1147 .
यात्राएं इससे  England , by ship , to the Holy Land , the army stopped and helped the smaller ( 7,000 ) Portuguese army in the capture of Lisbon , expelling its Moorish occupants .
Wal-Mart Stores , Inc. ( ) , branded as Walmart , is an American multinational retail corporation that runs chains of large discount  विभाग  stores and warehouse stores .
The company is the world 's third largest public corporation ,  according  to the Fortune Global 500 list in 2012 , the biggest private employer in the world with over two million employees , and is the largest retailer in the world .
Walmart remains a family-owned business , as the company is controlled by the Walton family , who own  a 48  percent stake in Walmart .
It is also one of the world 's most valuable   companies .
The company was founded by Sam Walton in 1962 , incorporated on October 31 , 1969 , and publicly traded on the New  York  Stock Exchange in 1972 .
It is headquartered in Bentonville ,  अरकंसास  .
Walmart is also the largest grocery retailer in the  संयुक्त राज्य  .
In 2009 , it generated 51 percent of its US $ 258  अरब  sales in the U.S. from grocery business .
It also owns and operates the Sam 's Club  खुदरा  warehouses in North America .
By 1988 , Wal-Mart was the most profitable retailer in the US ,  और by नवम्बर  1990 , it outsold K-mart .
By 1991 it outsold Sears in retail , making it America 's largest retailer , a  भेद  it still holds .
Walmart has 8,500 stores in 15 countries , under 55  अलग  names .
The company operates under the  walmart नाम  in the United States , including the 50 states and Puerto Rico .
It operates in   Mexico as Walmex , in the United Kingdom as Asda , in Japan as Seiyu , and in India as Best Price .
It has wholly owned operations in Argentina , Brazil , and Canada   .
Walmart 's investments outside North America have had mixed results : its operations in the United Kingdom , South America , and China are highly successful ,  whereas ventures  in Germany and South Korea were unsuccessful .
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011 ) , was a Northern Irish musician , most widely recognised as a singer  और  guitarist .
In a career dating back to the 1960s , Moore played with artists including Phil Lynott and Brian Downey during his teens , leading him to memberships with the Irish bands Skid Row and  पतला lizzy on तीन पृथक अवसरों  .
Moore shared the stage with such blues and rock luminaries as B.B . King ,  अल्बर्ट किंग , कोलोसियम  II , George Harrison and Greg Lake , as well as having a successful solo career .
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high profile musicians , including a cameo appearance playing the lead  guitar solo on `` She 's My Baby `` from  Traveling Wilburys Vol . 3 .
An   example of rack mounted servers
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service that allows individuals and organizations  to  make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
वेब होस्ट हैं कंपनियाँ कि provide स्पेस on a सर्वर स्वामित्व or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट , as खूब as providing अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी , typically in a आंकड़ा  center .
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet  लिये अन्य सर्वर  located in their data center , called colocation , also known as Housing in Latin America or France .
The  पैमाना  of web hosting services varies greatly .
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting , where files can  be अपलोड via संचिका  Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface .
The files are usually delivered to  the वेब  `` as is '' or with minimal processing .
Many Internet service providers ( ISPs ) offer this service  free  to subscribers .
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page hosting  from  alternative service providers .
Personal web site  होस्टिंग  is typically free , advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the size and type   of the website .
Single page hosting is generally sufficient for  निजी  web pages .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database   support and application development platforms ( e.g . PHP , Java , Ruby on Rails , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for applications like forums and content  प्रबन्धन  .
Also ,  सुरक्षित  Sockets Layer ( SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce .
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for managing the  Web server  and installing scripts , as well as other modules and service applications like e-mail .
Some hosts specialize in certain software or services ( e.g . e-commerce ) , which are  commonly प्रयुक्त by larger कंपनियाँ  that outsource network infrastructure .
Obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare , `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all women 's   reproductive tracts and their children during pregnancy ( prenatal period ) , childbirth and the postnatal period .
Many obstetricians are also gynecologists , meaning they perform in  दोनो  specialties .
In the   United States , these physicians are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs .
The Wright  भाइयो ,  Orville ( August 19 , 1871 – January 30 , 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16 , 1867 – May 30 , 1912 ) , were two American brothers , inventors , and aviation pioneers who were credited with inventing and building the world 's first successful airplane and making the first controlled , powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight , on December 17 , 1903 .
From 1905  to 1907  , the brothers developed their flying machine into the first practical fixed-wing aircraft .
Although not the first to build  और मक्खी प्रायोगिक वायुयान ,  the Wright brothers were the first to invent aircraft controls that made fixed-wing powered flight possible .
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was their invention of three-axis control , which enabled the pilot to steer  the  aircraft effectively and to maintain its equilibrium .
इस  method became standard and remains standard on fixed-wing aircraft of all kinds .
From the beginning of their aeronautical work , the Wright brothers focused on developing a reliable method of pilot control as the key to solving `` the flying   problem '' .
This approach differed  significantly इससे अन्य experimenters  of the time who put more emphasis on developing powerful engines .
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel , the Wrights also collected more accurate data than any before , enabling them to design and build wings and propellers that were more efficient  than कोई  before .
Their first U.S. patent , 821,393 , did not claim invention of a flying machine , but rather , the invention of a system of aerodynamic  control  that manipulated a flying machine 's surfaces .
They gained the mechanical skills essential for their success by  working  for years in their shop with printing presses , bicycles , motors , and other machinery .
Their work with bicycles in particular influenced their belief that an unstable vehicle like a flying machine  could be controlled and  balanced with practice .
From 1900 until their first powered flights in  लेट  1903 , they conducted extensive glider tests that also developed their skills as pilots .
Their bicycle shop employee Charlie Taylor  became  an important part of the team , building their first aircraft engine in close collaboration with the brothers .
the राइट भाइयो ' औकात as आविष्कारक of the वायुयान रै महरूम विषय to counter-claims by विभिन्न  parties .
much विवाद persists over the अनेक स्पर्धा दावा of जल्दी aviators .
America 's Next  शीर्ष मॉडल , साईकिल 12 is the बारहवीं साईकिल of अमेरिका  's Next Top Model and the sixth season to air on The CW network .
it  premiered on March 4 , 2009 .
The  साईकिल 's कैच  phrase is `` Get In The Fold . ''
The cycle 's promotional song  is  Lady Gaga 's `` The Fame '' .
the  prizes for this cycle are:
A modeling  अनुबंध  with Elite Model Management .
A fashion spread and   cover in Seventeen .
A  100,000  contract with CoverGirl cosmetics .
The first half of the cycle took place in New York City ,  चलती the दिखाएँ वापस इससे  Los Angeles last season .
The international destination  लिये  this cycle is São Paulo , Brazil , the series first visit to South America .
The number of girls was reduced to 13 , the first time since Cycle 9 , after being maintained at 14  in the  last two cycles .
This was the last time Paulina Porizkova participated  as  judge .
the विजेता  was 20-year-old Teyona Anderson from Woodstown , New Jersey .
This  ऋतु averaged  4.35 million viewers per episode .
Exxon  mobil निगम , or exxonmobil  , is an American multinational oil and gas corporation headquartered in Irving , Texas , United States .
It is a direct descendant of John D. Rockefeller 's Standard Oil company  , and  was formed on November 30 , 1999 , by the merger of Exxon and Mobil .
It is affiliated with Imperial Oil   which operates in Canada .
ExxonMobil is  the संसार 's largest कम्पनी by आय और in 2013 , became the largest सरेआम traded कम्पनी by मार्केट capitalization in the संसार .
The company  is क्रमित  # 5 globally in Forbes Global 2000 list in 2013 .
Exxon Mobil 's reserves were 72 billion oil-equivalent   barrels at the end of 2007 and , at then ( 2007 ) rates of production , are expected to last over 14 years .
With 37 oil refineries in  21 देशों constituting a संयुक्त रोज़  refining capacity of , Exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the world , a title that was also associated with Standard Oil since its incorporation in 1870 .
ExxonMobil is the largest of the world 's supermajors with daily production of 3.921 million  BOE  ( barrels of oil equivalent ) .
In 2008 , this was approximately 3 % of world production ,  which is  less than several of the largest state-owned petroleum companies .
जब क्रमित by आयल और गैस reserves it is 14th in the संसार साथ कम than 1 % of the कुल  .
A 2012 article in The Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into one of the planet’s most hated corporations , able to  determine  American foreign policy and the fate of entire nations '' .
In terms of its  पर्यावरणीय रिकार्ड  , ExxonMobil increasingly drills in terrains leased to them by dictatorships , such as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea .
Lee Raymond , the corporation’s chief executive until 2005 , was `` notoriously sceptical about climate change and  disliked  government interference at any level '' .
The company was widely criticized  लिये इसके slow जवाब  to cleaning its 1989 Valdez oil spill in Alaska .
इस  article is about the Globe Theatre of Shakespeare .
For the modern reconstruction in London , see  शेक्सपियर 's ग्लोब  .
For other uses , see Globe Theatre ( disambiguation  )  .
the ग्लोब थिएटर थी a थिएटर in लंदन संबद्ध साथ विलियम शेक्सपियर  .
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company , the Lord Chamberlain 's Men , on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son , Nicholas Brend and grandson Sir Matthew  brend , और थी नष्ट  by fire on 29 June 1613 .
A  दूसरी  Globe Theatre was built on the same site by June 1614 and closed in 1642 .
A modern reconstruction of the Globe , named `` Shakespeare  's  Globe `` , opened in 1997 approximately from the site of the original theatre .
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced and directed by Frank Capra , based on the short story `` The Greatest Gift `` , which Philip Van Doren Stern wrote  in 1939 and  privately published in 1945 .
The film is considered one of the most loved films in American cinema and has become traditional viewing during the Christmas season , alongside popular classics such as Charles Dickens '  a  Christmas Carol .
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey , a man who has given up his dreams in order to help others and whose imminent suicide on Christmas Eve brings  परिचय the हस्तक्षेप  of his guardian angel , Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers ) .
Clarence shows George all the lives he has touched and how different life in his  जातियाँ  of Bedford Falls would be had he never been born .
despite initially performing poorly at the बक्सा दफ्तर due to ऊँची उत्पादन लागत और stiff प्रतियोगिता at the समय of इसके रिलीज , the फिल्मी रै आइये to be regarded as a क्लासिक और is a स्टेपल of क्रिसमस टेलीविज़न around  the world .
Theatrically , the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3 million , approximately twice the production cost , a figure it never  आए बंद to achieving in  its initial release .
An appraisal in 2006 reported : `` Although it was not the complete box office failure that today everyone believes ... it was initially a major disappointment and confirmed , at least to the studios , that Capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist  सुविधाएँ कि बना  his films the must-see , money-making events they once were . ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the American Film Institute as one of the 100 best American films ever made , placing number 11  on इसके आरंभिक 1998 महानतम फिल्म  list , and would also place number one on its list of the most inspirational American films of all time .
आंकड़ा  Warehouse Overview
In computing , a data warehouse or enterprise data warehouse  (  DW , DWH , or EDW ) is a database used for reporting and data analysis .
It is a central repository of data which is created by integrating data from one or more disparate sources   .
Data warehouses  store  current as well as historical data and are used for creating trending reports for senior management reporting such as annual and quarterly comparisons .
The data stored  in the warehouse are uploaded  from the operational systems ( such as marketing , sales etc. , shown in the figure to the right ) .
The data may  pass  through an operational data store for additional operations before they are used in the DW for reporting .
The typical ETL  -आधारd आंकड़ा गोदाम उपयोग स्टेजिंग , आंकड़ा संयोजन , और अभिगम परतों to हाउस इसके कुंजी कृत्यों .
The staging layer or staging database stores raw data extracted   from each of the disparate source data systems .
The integration layer integrates the disparate  data sets by  transforming the data from the staging layer often storing this transformed data in an operational data store ( ODS ) database .
The integrated data are then moved to yet another database , often called the data warehouse database , where the data is arranged into hierarchical groups often called dimensions and into  तथ्य  and aggregate facts .
The combination of facts and dimensions is  sometimes  called a star schema .
The access layer helps  उपयोक्ता retrieve  data .
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated data source systems does not   require ETL , staging databases , or operational data store databases .
The integrated data source systems may be considered to be a part of a distributed operational data store  layer  .
Data federation methods or data virtualization methods may be used to access the distributed integrated source data systems to consolidate and aggregate data  directly into the  data warehouse database tables .
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse , the integrated source data systems and the data warehouse are all integrated since there is no  परिवर्तन  of dimensional or reference data .
This  एकीकृत  data warehouse architecture supports the drill down from the aggregate data of the data warehouse to the transactional data of the integrated source data systems .
Data warehouses can be subdivided  into आंकड़ा  marts .
आंकड़ा marts स्टोर subsets of आंकड़ा इससे a गोदाम  .
This definition of the  data  warehouse focuses on data storage .
The main source of the data is cleaned , transformed , cataloged and made available for use by managers and other business professionals  for  data mining , online analytical processing , market research and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ) .
However , the means to retrieve and analyze data , to extract  , transform and load data ,  and to manage the data dictionary are also considered essential components of a data warehousing system .
Many references to data  warehousing उपयोग  this broader context .
Thus , an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence tools , tools to extract , transform and load data into the repository ,   and tools to manage and retrieve metadata .
Portland stone quarry on the Isle of   Portland , England
An abandoned construction aggregate quarry near Adelaide ,  दक्षिण  Australia
A quarry is a type of open-pit mine from  जिससे चट्टान or  minerals are extracted .
Quarries are generally used for extracting building materials , such as dimension  स्टोन , निर्माण कुल , riprap  , sand , and gravel .
They are often  collocated साथ कंक्रीट और डामर पौधे due to the आवश्यकता लिये विशाल amounts of कुल in those सामग्री .
Open mines that  produce  minerals are typically referred to as open pit mines .
The word quarry can  शामिल भूमिगत  quarrying for stone , such as Bath stone .
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to Mormonism , the principal branch of the Latter Day Saint movement of Restorationist Christianity , which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate  New York  during the 1820s .
After Smith 's death in 1844 the Mormons followed Brigham Young to  कया होता  become the Utah Territory .
Today Mormons are understood to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (  lds गिरिजाघर )  .
Some Mormons are also either independent or  non-practicing  .
The center of Mormon cultural influence is in Utah , and North America has more Mormons than  any other  continent , though the majority of Mormons live outside the United States .
Mormons have developed a strong sense of communality that stems from their doctrine and  इतिहास  .
During the 19th century Mormon converts tended to gather to a central  भौगोलिक स्थान , और  between 1852 and 1890 a minority of Mormons openly practiced plural marriage , a form of religious polygamy .
Mormons dedicate large amounts of time and resources to serving in their church , and many young  mormons चुनें  to serve a full-time proselytizing mission .
Mormons have a health code that eschews  alcoholic  beverages , tobacco , coffee , tea , and other addictive substances .
They  tend to be बहुत family-oriented  , and have strong connections across generations and with extended family , reflective of their belief that families can be sealed together beyond death and throughout eternity .
Mormons also have a strict law of chastity , requiring abstention from sexual relations outside of marriage and  सख्त  fidelity within marriage .
Mormons self-identify as Christian , though some of their beliefs differ  इससे मुख्यधारा  Christianity .
Mormons believe in the Bible ,  as खूब as  other books of scripture , such as the Book of Mormon .
They have a unique view of cosmology , and believe   that all people are spirit-children of God .
Mormons believe that returning to God requires following the example of Jesus Christ , and accepting his atonement through ordinances such  as  baptism .
They believe  that Christ 's  church was restored through Joseph Smith , and is guided by living prophets and apostles .
Central to  mormon  faith is the belief that God speaks to his children and answers their prayers .
In financial accounting  ,  assets are economic resources .
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable of being owned or  controlled to  produce value and that is held to have positive economic value is considered an asset .
Simply stated , assets represent value of ownership that can be  परिवर्तित into नकदी ( हालांकि नकदी itself is  also considered an asset ) .
The balance sheet of a firm  रिकॉर्ड  the monetaryJ .
G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005.There are different methods of  assessing  the monetary value of the assets recorded on the Balance Sheet .
In some cases ,  the  Historical Cost is used ; such that the value of the asset when it was bought in the past is used as the monetary value .
In other instances , the present fair market value of the asset is  प्रयुक्त to determine  the value shown on the balance sheet .
value of the assets owned   by the firm .
It is money and  अन्य valuables  belonging to an individual or business .
Two major asset classes are tangible assets and intangible   assets .
Tangible assets contain various  subclasses , सहित  current assets and fixed assets.J .
Downes , J.E .  गुडमैन , `` शब्दकोष  of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 Current assets include inventory , while fixed assets include such items as buildings and equipment .J . Downes , J.E . Goodman , `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005 .
intangible एसेट हैं  nonphysical resources and rights that have a value to the firm because they give the firm some kind of advantage in the market place .
Examples of intangible assets are goodwill , copyrights , trademarks , patents and computer programs , and financial assets , including   such items as accounts receivable , bonds and stocks .
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and  रासायनिक  signals .
A chemical signal occurs via a synapse , a specialized  कनेक्शन साथ  other cells .
Neurons connect to each other to  रूप neural  networks .
न्यूरॉन्स  are the core components of the nervous system , which includes the brain , spinal cord , and peripheral ganglia .
A number of  specialized प्रकार of न्यूरॉन्स मौजूद : संवेदी न्यूरॉन्स  respond to touch , sound , light and numerous other stimuli affecting cells of the sensory organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain .
Motor neurons receive signals from the brain and spinal cord , cause muscle  contractions  , and affect glands .
Interneurons connect neurons to  अन्य  neurons within the same region of the brain or spinal cord .
A typical neuron possesses a cell body ( often called the soma ) , dendrites , and an   axon .
Dendrites are thin  structures कि उठता  from the cell body , often extending for hundreds of micrometres and branching multiple times , giving rise to a complex `` dendritic tree '' .
An axon is a special cellular extension that arises from the cell body at a site called the axon hillock and travels for a distance , as far as  1 मीटर  in humans or even more in other species .
The cell body of a neuron frequently gives rise  to अनेक  dendrites , but never to more than one axon , although the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates .
At the majority of  synapses ,  signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another .
There are , however , many exceptions to these rules : neurons that lack dendrites , neurons that have no axon , synapses that connect an axon to another  axon or a dendrite  to another dendrite , etc .
All neurons are electrically excitable , maintaining voltage gradients across their membranes by means of metabolically driven ion pumps , which combine  साथ आयन चैनल्स अंतःस्थापित in the झिल्ली to generate  intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium , potassium , chloride , and calcium .
Changes in the cross-membrane voltage can alter the function  of voltage-dependent  ion channels .
If the voltage  परिवर्तन  by a large enough amount , an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an action potential is generated , which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon , and activates synaptic connections with other cells when it arrives .
Neurons do not undergo cell  प्रभाग  .
in सबसे मामले , न्यूरॉन्स हैं उत्पन्न by खास प्रकार of स्टेम कोशिकाएं .
Astrocytes , a type of glial cell , have also been observed to turn   into neurons by virtue of the stem cell characteristic pluripotency .
In humans , neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in two brain areas , the hippocampus and olfactory bulb , there is strong   evidence for generation of substantial numbers of new neurons .
सुपर कटोरी xliii थी an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the  American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Pittsburgh Steelers and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion Arizona Cardinals to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 2008 season .
The  स्टीलर्स  defeated the Cardinals by the score of 27–23 .
The game was played on February 1  , 2009 ,  at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa , Florida .
With this win ,  the  Steelers became the first team to win six Super Bowls .
पिट्सबर्ग  , who finished the regular season with a 12–4 record , also won their second Super Bowl in four years after winning Super Bowl XL at the end of the 2005 season .
The Cardinals entered the game seeking their first  NFL  title since 1947 , the longest championship drought in the league .
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season , compiling a 9–7 record , and the playoffs with the aid of head coach  Ken Whisenhunt ,  who was the Steelers ' offensive coordinator in Super Bowl XL , and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner , who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team , St. Louis Rams .
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7  मध्यांतर सीसे , aided  by linebacker James Harrison 's Super Bowl record 100-yard interception return for a touchdown .
trailing 20–7 at the प्रारंभ of the चौथी क्वार्टर , एरिज़ोना  scored 16 unanswered points , including wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald 's 64-yard touchdown reception , to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game .
But  the स्टीलर्स marched  78 yards to score on wide receiver Santonio Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left .
Holmes , who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a touchdown , including four receptions for 73 yards on that final game-winning drive , was  नामित सुपर  Bowl MVP .
He became the sixth wide receiver to win the award ,  and also was  the third Pittsburgh receiver to win the award , following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward .
Despite the global financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary festivities that are normally held before the game , the NBC television network broadcast   attracted an average U.S. audience of 98.7 million viewers , making it the most watched Super Bowl in history to that point .
A diagram  of the  electromagnetic spectrum , showing various properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic  वर्णक्रम  is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object  रै a  different meaning , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from  हज़ारों of किलोमीटर bas to a भिन्न  of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the  आकार of the ब्रह्मांड itself ,  while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in  विज्ञान  for spectroscopic and other probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In  जोड , विकिरण  from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
Marchantia , a  liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer  to सब embryophytes  ( land plants ) that do not have true vascular tissue and are therefore called ' non-vascular plants ' .
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for the transport of water ;  however चूंकि ये do  not contain lignin , they are not considered to be true vascular tissue .
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic group ; however the name is convenient and remains in use as a collective term for mosses , hornworts , and  liverworts  .
Bryophytes produce  enclosed reproductive  structures ( gametangia and sporangia ) , but they produce neither flowers nor seeds , reproducing via spores .
The  पद ब्रायोफाइटा आता इससे यूनानी βρύον , bryon , `` tree-moss , oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` संयंत्र '' .
A bank is a financial institution and a financial intermediary that accepts deposits and channels those deposits into lending activities , either directly by loaning or indirectly  through capital  markets .
A bank is the connection between customers that have capital deficits and customers with capital  surpluses  .
Due to their influence within a financial system and an economy , banks are generally highly  regulated in सबसे देशों  .
Most   banks operate under a system known as fractional reserve banking where they hold only a small reserve of the funds deposited and lend out the rest for profit .
वे हैं generally विषय to न्यूनतम पूंजी आवश्यकताएँ जिससे हैं आधारित on an अंतरराष्ट्रीय नियत of पूंजी मानकों , ज्ञात as the basel accords .
The  oldest बैंको स्टिल in अस्तित्व is मोंटे देई paschi di सियेना , headquartered in सियेना , इटली , जिससे रै महरूम ऑपरेटिंग लगातार चूंकि 1472 .
It is followed by  berenberg  Bank of Hamburg ( 1590 ) and Sveriges Riksbank of Sweden ( 1668 ) .
Banking in its modern sense evolved in  rich cities of  Renaissance Italy , such as Florence , Venice and Genoa .
In  the इतिहास of  banking , a number of banking dynasties —among them notably Medici , Fugger , Welser , Berenberg , Baring and Rothschild —have played a central role over many centuries .
The Xbox  is  a video game console manufactured by Microsoft .
It was released on November 15 , 2001 in North America , February 22 , 2002 in Japan , and March 14 , 2002 in Australia  और यूरोपीय  .
It was Microsoft 's first foray into the gaming  कंसोल मार्केट  .
as भाग of the sixth-generation of गेमिंग , the एक्सबॉक्स competed साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 2 , sega 's dreamcast ( जिससे रोका अमरीकी बिक्री पहले the एक्सबॉक्स गई on बिक्री ) , और निन्टेंडो 's gamecube .
The Xbox  was the first  console offered by an American company after the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996 .
The integrated Xbox Live service launched in November 2002 allowed players to play games online with a broadband  कनेक्शन  .
It first competed with Dreamcast 's online service but later primarily competed with   PlayStation 2 's online service .
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription , as well as broadband-only connection which was not completely adopted yet , Xbox Live was a success due to better servers , features such as a buddy list , and milestone titles like  Halo 2  released in November 2004 , which is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years .
Xbox 's successor , the Xbox 360 , was launched  in नवम्बर  2005 .
The Xbox was  discontinued in  late 2005 in Japan where sales were poor .
It was discontinued in late 2006 in Europe  और  early 2007 in North America .
the पिछला एक्सबॉक्स खेल in यूरोपीय थी टोनी हॉक 's प्रोजेक्ट 8 released in नवम्बर 2006 , और the पिछला खेल in उत्तर अमेरिका थी मैडेन एनएफएल 09  released in August 2008 .
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2 , 2009 , stating that any in-warranty repair now needed  होगा नहीं  be undertaken .
एक्सबॉक्स अभिगम to एक्सबॉक्स सजीव थी रोका on अप्रैल 15 , 2010  .
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ) , commonly referred to as the Gospel of John or simply John and often referred to in  नई वसीयत स्कॉलरशिप  as the Fourth Gospel , is an account of the public ministry of Jesus .
It begins with the witness and affirmation by John the Baptist  and  concludes with the death , burial , resurrection , and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus .
This account is fourth of the canonical gospels ,  बाद  the synoptics Matthew , Mark and Luke .
states that the book derives from the testimony of the ' disciple whom Jesus loved  .  '
Along with Peter , the unnamed disciple is especially   close to Jesus , and early-church tradition identified him as John the Apostle , one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles .
The  इन्जील is closely सम्बन्धित in स्टाइल और सामग्री to the तीन surviving epistles of जॉन ऐसे कि टीकाकारों दावत the चार किताबे साथ , yet , according to सबसे आधुनिक विद्वानों , जॉन थी नहीं the लेखक of कोई of ये किताबे .
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more and more has placed John within a first-century Jewish   context .
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to trace the  विकास of  the tradition from which the gospel arose .
the  discourses seem to be concerned with the actual issues of the church-and-synagogue debate at the time when the Gospel was written .
It is notable that , in the gospel , the community still appears to define  itself  primarily against Judaism , rather than as part of a wider Christian church .
Though Christianity started as a movement within Judaism , gradually  ईसाइयों और  Jews became bitterly opposed .
John presents a ``   higher '' Christology than the synoptics , meaning that it describes Jesus as the incarnation of the divine Logos through whom all things were made , as the object of veneration , and more explicitly as God incarnate .
Only in John does Jesus talk at length about  खुद और  his divine role , often shared with the disciples only .
Against the  synoptics , जॉन focuses largely on अलग चमत्कार ( सहित resurrecting lazarus ) , दिए as लक्षण meant to engender आस्था .
Synoptic elements such  as parables  and exorcisms are not found in John .
It presents a realized eschatology in which salvation is already present for  the आस्तिक  .
The Plagues of Egypt ( ) , also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues , were ten calamities that , according to the biblical Book of  exodus  , Israel 's God , Yahweh , inflicted upon Egypt to persuade Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery .
Pharaoh capitulated after the tenth plague , triggering the Exodus of the   Jewish people .
The plagues were designed to contrast the power of Yahweh with the impotence of Egypt 's various  देवताओं  .
Some commentators have associated several of the plagues with judgment on specific gods associated with the  nile , प्रजनन  and natural phenomena .
The plagues of Egypt are also mentioned in the Quran ( 7,133–136  )  .
According to the Book of Exodus , God proclaims that all the gods of Egypt will be judged through the tenth and final  plague:
John Martin 's painting  of the  plague of hail and fire ( 1823 ) .
A role-playing game ( RPG and   sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which players assume the roles of characters in a fictional setting .
Players take responsibility for acting out these roles within a narrative , either through literal acting or through a process of structured decision-making or  अक्षर विकास  .
Actions  लिया  within many games succeed or fail according to a formal system of rules and guidelines .
There are  अनेक  forms of RPG .
The original form , sometimes called the tabletop RPG , is conducted through discussion , whereas in live action role-playing games ( LARP ) players  physically perform their  characters ' actions .
In both of these forms , an arranger called a game master ( GM ) usually decides on the rules and setting to be used and acts as referee , while each of the other players  plays the भूमिका of a सिंगल  character .
Several varieties of RPG also exist in electronic media , such as  multi-player text-based muds और उनके graphics-based successors , massively  multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ) .
Role-playing games also include single-player offline  role-playing वीडियो  games in which players control a character or team who undertake quests , and may include capabilities that advance using statistical mechanics .
These games often share settings and rules with tabletop RPGs , but emphasize character advancement more than  collaborative storytelling  .
Despite this variety of forms , some game forms such as trading card  खेल  and wargames that are related to role-playing games may not be included .
Role-playing activity may sometimes be present in such  खेल  , but it is not the primary focus .
The term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation games and  exercises प्रयुक्त in शिक्षण  , training , and academic research .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil  War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865  between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war  था इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर the एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories .
विदेशी  powers did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat  that  left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into  संयुक्त राज्य ' territories  .
lincoln जीती , लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861 , सात cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming Republicans  rejected  secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not  initiate  civil war .
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject calls for secession   .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal forts within   territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise , and  both sides  prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States  of अमेरिका  .
Hostilities began on April 12 ,  1861 , जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी फोर्ट आयोजित by संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण कैरोलिना .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the  confederacy , bringing  their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval blockade  that crippled the  southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive in 1861–62  .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland  ( a संघ राज्य  ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued   the Emancipation Proclamation , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of  their  western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863  , रॉबर्ट E. ली 's  Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all  संघ सेना  in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea ,  destroying confederate  infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to   attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading  to Lee  's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of  the earliest सच्चा औद्योगिक  wars .
Railroads , the  टेलीग्राफ  , steamships , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines   , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000  सैनिको और  an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the  मौत टोल at टेन  percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
The definition of the world 's busiest airport has been specified by the Airports Council International in Geneva ,  स्विट्ज़रलैंड .
The ACI defines and measures  the following  three types of airport traffic:
Passenger   traffic : total passengers emplaned and deplaned , passengers in transit counted once
Cargo  ट्रैफ़िक : loaded  and unloaded freight and mail in metric tonnes
Traffic  आंदोलनों  : landings and take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that  began on 28  July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War  or  the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary  had taken the  offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and  the Ottoman Empire and  Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60 million Europeans ,  यहूद  mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because  of  technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations   involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in  the  foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary  , on 28 June  1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances  formed  over the previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks  , the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion  of  Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war  विरूद्ध जर्मनी  .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a  गर्त  line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians ,  लकिन  was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November  the  Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria  गई  to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms  साथ the सेंट्रल  Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front ,  the allies  drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany ,  जिससे  had its own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in victory for the  allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to  fight a total  war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased   to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of territory , while the latter two were  dismantled  entirely .
The map of central Europe was  redrawn  into several smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such  विरोध  .
the यूरोपीय राष्ट्रवाद शाखित by the युद्ध और the ब्रेकअप of empires , the परखना of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार युद्ध ii .
The  deepwater क्षितिज आयल spill ( भी referred to as the bp आयल spill , the bp आयल विपत्ति , the गल्फ of मैक्सिको आयल spill , और the macondo blowout ) थी an आयल spill in the गल्फ of मैक्सिको on the bp -operated macondo prospect , माना the largest आकस्मिक समुद्री आयल spill in the इतिहास of the पेट्रोलियम उद्योग , अनुमानित to be between 8 % और 31 % larger in आवाज़ than the पहले ixtoc i आयल spill .
Following the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon  आयल  rig , which claimed 11 lives , a sea-floor oil gusher flowed unabated for 87 days , until it was capped on 15 July 2010 .
The total discharge is  अनुमानित  at .
A massive response  ensued to protect  beaches , wetlands and estuaries from the spreading oil utilizing skimmer ships , floating booms , controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant .
After  अनेक  failed efforts to contain the flow , the well was declared sealed on 19 September 2010 .
कुछ रिपोर्ट्स  indicate the well site continues to leak .
Due to the months-long spill , along with adverse effects from the response and cleanup activities , extensive damage to marine and wildlife habitats , fishing and tourism industries , and human health problems have continued through 2013.Three years after the spill , tar balls could still  be found on the  Mississippi coast .
Numerous investigations explored the causes of the  विस्फोट  and record-setting spill .
Notably , the U.S. government 's September 2011 report  pointed to  defective cement on the well , faulting mostly BP , but also well operator Transocean and contractor Halliburton .
Earlier in 2011 , a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of cost-cutting decisions and an insufficient safety system , but also concluded that the spill resulted from `` systemic '' root causes  और `` अनुपस्थित significant सुधार in दोनो उद्योग  practices and government policies , might well recur '' .
In November 2012 , BP and the United States Department of Justice settled federal  दण्ड आरोप साथ bp pleading अपराधी to  11 counts of manslaughter , two misdemeanors , and a felony count of lying to Congress .
BP also agreed to four years of government monitoring of its safety practices and ethics , and the Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily banned  इससे नई अनुबंध  with the US government .
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines and other payments but further legal proceedings not expected to conclude until 2014 are ongoing to determine  payouts and fines under the Clean  Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment .
As of February 2013 , criminal and civil settlements and payments to  a विश्वास निधि  had cost the company $ 42.2 billion .
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' is a  सोंग  by rock band U2 .
It is the opening track from their 1987 album The Joshua Tree and was released as the album 's third  सिंगल in  August 1987 .
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a delay effect , played  दौरान  the song 's introduction and again at the end .
Lead  vocalist Bono wrote the  lyrics in response to the notion that it is possible to identify a person 's religion and income based on the street on which they lived , particularly in Belfast .
During the band 's difficulties recording the song , producer Brian Eno considered erasing the song  's  tapes to have them start from scratch .
`` Where the Streets Have No Name '' was praised by critics and became a commercial success , peaking at number thirteen in the US , number fourteen in Canada , number ten in the Netherlands  ,  and number four in the United Kingdom .
the सोंग रै become एक of the बैंड 's सबसे लोकप्रिय गीतों और रै remained a स्टेपल of उनके सजीव अधिनियम चूंकि the सोंग debuted in 1987 on the जोशुआ  Tree Tour .
The song was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for the filming of its music video , which  won a Grammy Award  for Best Performance Music Video .Recently the song has been used by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born July 9 , 1956 ) is an American   actor , producer , writer , and director .
Hanks is known for his roles in  अपोलो  13 , Big , That Thing You Do !
, The Green Mile , You 've Got Mail , Sleepless in  सिएटल , चार्ली  Wilson 's War , Catch Me If You Can , Forrest Gump , Cast Away , A League of Their Own , The Da Vinci Code , Angels & Demons , as well as animated films like the Toy Story film series , The Polar Express , and The Simpsons Movie .
He has earned and been nominated for numerous awards during his career  ,  including winning a Golden Globe for Best Actor and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia and a Golden Globe , an Academy Award , a Screen Actors Guild Award , and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump , and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004 .
Hanks is also known for his collaboration with film director Steven Spielberg on Saving Private Ryan and the mini-series Band of Brothers , which launched Hanks also as a successful director ,  निर्माता और लेखक  .
As of 2012 , Hanks ' films have grossed  over  $ 4.2 billion at the United States box office alone , and over $ 8.5 billion worldwide making him the highest all-time box office star .
the  Cape is an American superhero drama series .
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement beginning with a two-hour pilot  episode on  Sunday , January 9 , 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time .
An encore played on Monday , January 10 , with follow-up episodes continuing on Monday evenings  in  the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17 .
NBC subsequently cut the total number  of  episodes to be aired from 13 to 10 as a result of low ratings .
On March 2 , 2011 , NBC announced that the series finale would only be aired on  the  network 's website .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ) , officially designated  1p/halley , is the best-known  of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years .
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from Earth , and thus the only  naked-eye  comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and more spectacular , but will appear only  एकबार  in thousands of years .
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been observed and recorded by  खगोलशास्त्रियों  since at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese , Babylonian , and medieval European chroniclers , but were not recognized  as reappearances of the वही ऑब्जेक्ट  at the time .
The comet 's periodicity was first determined  in  1705 by English astronomer Edmond Halley , after whom it is now named .
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061   .
During its 1986 apparition , Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft  , providing the first observational data on the  structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model , which  correctly पूर्वानुमानित कि हैली  would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty  , non-volatile सामग्री  , and that only a small portion of it is icy .
The following  is a list  of the most populous incorporated places of the United States of America .
As defined by the United States Census Bureau , an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations , including city , town , village ,  बरो , और  municipality .
A few exceptional Census Designated  स्थान ( cdps  ) are also included in the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places .
संचित city-counties represent a पृथक प्रकार of सरकारी कि शामिल the संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी of a काउंटी , or काउंटी समतुल्य .
Some consolidated city-counties  ,  however , include multiple incorporated places .
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated  city-counties  that are not a part of another incorporated place .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities within their defined limits , which does not include other municipalities  or unincorporated suburban areas  within urban agglomerations .
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S.  महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations  .
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620  transported 102  English Pilgrims , including a core group of Separatists , to New England .
Their story is  one of  travail and survival in a harsh New World environment .
A  नई जीलैंड आगे ( in श्वेत ) takes a शॉट on लक्ष्य विरूद्ध कैमरून in the 2011 फीफा u-20 संसार कप .
Forwards , also known as  strikers , हैं the खिलाड़ी  on a team in association football who play nearest to the opposing team 's goal , and are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals .
This very advanced  स्थिति  and its limited defensive responsibilities mean forwards normally score more goals than other players .
This position requires   intelligence , speed , and power , both of execution and of thought , to perform the role well .
Modern team formations usually   include one to three forwards ; two is the most common .
Coaches  typically फ़ील्ड एक स्ट्राइकर जो plays in an उन्नत स्थिति  ( the centre forward ) , and another attacking forward who plays somewhat deeper and assists in making goals as well as scoring ( the second striker ) .
It should be noted that inside forwards develop from attacking midfield positions and hence are naturally   midfielders .
Barcelona FC star Lionel Messi  is a ठेठ  Attacking Midfielder seen as a forward due to his shot accuracy .
A California domestic partnership is a legal relationship available to  same-sex युगल  , and to certain opposite-sex couples in which at least one party is at least 18 years of age .
It affords the  युगल  `` the same rights , protections , and benefits , and ... the same responsibilities , obligations , and duties under law ... '' as married spouses .
enacted in 1999 , the घरेलू साझेदारी रजिस्ट्री थी the पहला of इसके दयालु in the संयुक्त राज्य निर्मित by a विधानमंडल बगैर  court intervention .
Initially , domestic partnerships enjoyed very few  privileges—principally  just hospital-visitation rights and the right to be claimed as a next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner .
The  विधानमंडल रै चूंकि विस्तारित the पैमाना of कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू  partnerships to include all of the rights and responsibilities common to marriage .
As such , California domestic partnerships are functionally equivalent to  सिविल संघ offered  in several other states .
हालांकि  the program enjoys broad support in California , it has been the source of some controversy .
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have challenged the  विस्तार  of domestic partnerships in court .
Conversely , advocates of same-sex marriage contend that anything less than full marriage rights extended to same-sex  partners is analogous  to the `` separate but equal '' racial laws of the Jim Crow era .
Mark A. Jackson ( born April 1 , 1965 ) is an American basketball coach , and  पूर्व खिलाड़ी  who is the current head coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA .
A  पाइंट गार्ड इससे st. जॉन 's विश्वविद्यालयों , he निभाई लिये the नई यॉर्क knicks , इंडियाना पेसर्स , लॉस एंजिल्स क्लिपर्स , डेनवर टेंडर्स , टोरंटो रैपटर्स , यूटा जैज़ और ह्यूस्टन rockets in the एनबीए in a करियर spanning इससे 1987 to 2004 .
Jackson has  भी  worked as a commentator for ESPN and ABC alongside his former coach Jeff Van Gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen .
He was previously an NBA analyst for The YES Network 's   New Jersey Nets games .
South Africa has eleven official languages :  अफ्रीकी , अंग्रेज़ी , ndebele  , Northern Sotho , Sotho , Swazi , Tswana , Tsonga , Venda , Xhosa and Zulu .
Fewer than two percent  of  South Africans speak a first language other than an official one .
Most South Africans can speak more than one   language .
डच और अंग्रेज़ी यहूद the पहला आधिकारिक भाषाएं of दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी इससे 1910 to 1925 .
Afrikaans was added as a part of  डच  in 1925 .
Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans when South Africa became a republic in 1961 , and Dutch was dropped in 1983 , so between 1983 and 1994 , South Africa  था दो आधिकारिक भाषाएं : अंग्रेज़ी और अफ्रीकी  .
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isiZulu , isiXhosa , Afrikaans , Sepedi ( referring to Northern Sotho ) , Setswana , English , Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ) , Xitsonga , Siswati , Tshivenda and isiNdebele (  referring to  Southern Ndebele ) .
In South Africa , Southern Ndebele is known simply as Ndebele , as most speakers of Northern Ndebele live in   Zimbabwe .
the 1993 संस्करण of the संविधान referred to उत्तरी sotho as sesotho sa leboa , लकिन the 1996 संस्करण referred to the भाषा as sepedi .
Different  सरकारी विभाग  and official bodies use different terms to denote Northern Sotho .
The main language of  सरकारी is अंग्रेज़ी भी  if South Africans often take pride in using indigenous languages for any purpose .
Afrikaans also features prominently in commerce together with English as the languages with the highest number of fluent  speakers  are Afrikaans and English .
In terms of linguistic  वर्गीकरण ,  the official languages include two West-Germanic languages ( English and Afrikaans ) and nine Bantu languages .
Four of these are Nguni languages ( Zulu , Xhosa , Swati and Ndebele ) and three are Sotho–Tswana  भाषाएं  ( Northern Sotho , Southern Sotho and Tswana ) .
Tsonga is a  tswa–ronga  language .
South African Sign Language   is a distinct though incompletely emerged national standard language which also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects .
Aluminium nitrate is a salt of aluminium and  नाइट्रिक  acid , existing normally as a crystalline hydrate , most commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate , Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O .
The New York Jets are a professional football team  headquartered  in Florham Park , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The team is a member of the Eastern Division of the American  फ़ुटबॉल  Conference ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
In a unique arrangement for the league , the Jets share MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford , New Jersey  with the New  York Giants .
The franchise is legally and  corporately  registered as New York Jets , LLC .
The team was   founded in 1959 as the Titans of New York , an original member of the American Football League ; later , the franchise joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger .
The team began to play in 1960 at the Polo  grounds  .
Under new ownership , the current name was adopted in 1963 and the franchise was relocated to Shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the Meadowlands  खेल जटिल  in 1984 .
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete in Super Bowl III where they defeated the Baltimore Colts  ,  becoming the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game .
Since 1968 , the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen times , and in the AFC Championship Game four times , most recently losing to the Pittsburgh  स्टीलर्स  in 2010 .
However , the Jets have never  लौटे to  the Super Bowl , making them one of three NFL teams to win their lone Super Bowl appearance , along with the New Orleans Saints and Tampa Bay Buccaneers .
The team 's training facility , Atlantic Health Jets Training Center , which opened in 2008 ,  is  located in Florham Park .
The team currently holds their annual training camp sessions on the campus of the State University of New York at Cortland in Cortland , New York while holding occasional  सत्र at the  Florham Park complex .
Psilocybe  semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms , also known as psychedelic  मशरूम  , are fungi that contain psychoactive indole alkaloids .
There are multiple colloquial terms for psilocybin mushrooms  , the  most common being shrooms and magic mushrooms .
Biological  genera containing  psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe , Conocybe , Copelandia , Galerina , Gerronema , Gymnopilus , Hypholoma , Inocybe , Mycena , Panaeolus , Pluteus , and Psilocybe .
There are approximately 190 species of psilocybin  मशरूम और सबसे of उन्हें  fall in the genus Psilocybe .
Psilocybin mushrooms have likely been used since prehistoric times and may have been depicted in  rock art  .
Many cultures have used these mushrooms in  धार्मिक  rites .
In modern  पश्चिमी  society they are used recreationally for their psychedelic effects .
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins School of Medicine conclude that when used properly , psilocybin acts as an anti-depressant as suggested  by  fMRI brain scans .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent , with the international boundary with Canada to the east , the Arctic Ocean to the   north , and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
अलास्का is the largest राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य by क्षेत्रफल , the 4th तनिक populous और the तनिक densely आबादी of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य .
लगभग  half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil , natural gas , and fishing industries ; it has these resources in   abundance .
Alaska was purchased from  रूस on कूच  30 , 1867 , for $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11 , 1912 , and the 49th  राज्य of the u.S. on  January 3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already  introduced in the रूसी औपनिवेशिक  period , when it was used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq , meaning `` the mainland '' or , more literally , `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed '' .
It is also known  as alyeska  , the `` great land '' , an Aleut word derived from the same root .
The 101 French departments are divided into 342 arrondissements , which may  be अनूदित into  English as districts .
The capital of an arrondissement/district   is called a subprefecture .
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the department , that prefecture is the capital  of the  arrondissement , acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture .
Arrondissements are further divided into  cantons और  communes .
The vagina ( from Latin vāgīna , literally `` sheath '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular tract which is a sex organ and  has two main functions ;  sexual intercourse and childbirth .
In humans , this passage leads from the opening of  the vulva to the  uterus ( womb ) , but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix .
Unlike men , who have only one  genital orifice  , women have two , the urethra and the vagina .
The vaginal opening is much larger than the urethral opening , and both  उद्घाटन हैं सुरक्षित  by the labia .
The inner mould  of the  vagina has a foldy texture which can create friction for the penis during intercourse .
दौरान arousal , the योनि gets नम to सुकर the प्रवेश of the शिश्न  .
The Latinate plural ``   vaginae '' is rarely used in English .
colloquially , the शब्द योनि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to refer to the भग or to the मादा गुप्तांग in सामान्य .
However , by its dictionary and anatomical definitions , vagina refers   exclusively to the specific internal structure .
The Cincinnati Reds are a Major League  बेसबॉल  team based in Cincinnati , Ohio .
They are members of the National  लीग सेंट्रल  Division .
Established in 1881 as  an independent club  , the team became a charter member of the American Association in 1882 , and joined the National League in 1890 .
The club traditionally traces its origin to baseball 's first openly professional team  in  1869 .
The Reds  have  won five World Series titles , one American Association pennant , nine National League pennants and ten division titles .
The Reds played in the National League West  between 1969 and 1993  and have been in the National League Central since 1994 .
Since 2003 , the Reds have played at Great American Ball Park , built next to their home from  1970  to 2002 , Riverfront Stadium .
Bob Castellini has owned the Cincinnati Reds since 2006   .
A prank stink bomb  .
A stink   bomb is a device designed to create an unpleasant smell .
They range in effectiveness from simple pranks to military grade   malodorants or riot control chemical agents .
The Guinness Book of Records lists two smelliest  substances  .
One is `` US Government Standard Bathroom Malodor '' ; a mixture of eight chemicals with a stench resembling human feces , only much  stronger  , designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners .
Another one , `` Who me ? `` ,  is a मिश्रण  of five sulfur-containing chemicals and smells like rotting food and carcasses .
The adage `` A picture is worth a thousand words  '' refers to the ख़्याल  that a complex idea can be conveyed with just a single still image .
It also aptly characterizes  एक of  the main goals of visualization , namely making it possible to absorb large amounts of data quickly .
The expression `` Use  a  picture .
It 's worth a thousand words . '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article   quoting newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity .
1913 समाचारपत्र  advertisement
A  समान phrase , ``  One Look Is Worth A Thousand Words '' , appears in a 1913 newspaper advertisement for the Piqua Auto Supply House of Piqua , Ohio .
An early use of the  exact phrase  appears in an 1918 newspaper advertisement for the San Antonio Light which says : One of the Nation 's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is Worth a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the War Exemplifies the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers .
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R.  बर्नार्ड  in the advertising trade journal Printers ' Ink , promoting the use of images in advertisements that appeared on the sides of streetcars .
The December 8 , 1921  issue carries  an ad entitled , `` One Look is Worth A Thousand Words . ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the  कूच 10 , 1927  issue with the phrase `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words , '' where it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ) .
The Home Book of Proverbs , Maxims , and Familiar Phrases quotes  Barnard as saying he called it `` a  Chinese proverb , so that people would take it seriously . ''
जल्द बाद ,  the proverb would become popularly attributed to Confucius .
The discussion of `` One Picture Worth Thousand Words '' versus `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words '' Wan yen I hua and 10.000 miles worth 10.000 books is cited in Information  ग्राफिक्स जहाँ the अवधारणा  of many in different disciplines and cultures .
A picture is worth a thousand   words
Despite this modern origin of the popular phrase , the sentiment has been  expressed  by earlier writers .
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in Fathers and Sons in 1862 ) , `` A picture shows me at a glance what it takes  दर्जनों  of pages of a book to expound . ''
Computer programmer and author Fred Brooks makes an opposite statement regarding programming in The Mythical Man-Month : `` Show me your flowcharts and  छिपाते अपना टेबल , और  I shall continue to be mystified .
Show me your tables , and I won’t usually need your flowcharts ;  they’ll be  obvious . ''
The phrase has also been spoofed by John McCarthy , the famous computer scientist , to make the opposite point : ``  As the Chinese say , 1001  words is worth more than a picture . ''
A season is a subdivision of the year , marked  by changes in  weather , ecology , and hours of daylight .
Seasons result from the yearly revolution of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to  the प्लेन of क्रान्ति  .
In temperate and polar regions , the seasons are marked by changes in  the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface ,  variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate , and plants to be dormant .
During May , June and July , the northern hemisphere is exposed  to अधिक  direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is true of the southern hemisphere  in  November , December and January .
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky during the summer months which increases  the  solar flux .
However , due to seasonal lag , June , July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December , January and  फ़रवरी हैं the hottest  months in the southern hemisphere .
In temperate and subpolar regions , generally four   calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ) , summer ( estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ) .
However ,  ecologists  mostly use a six season model for temperate climate regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or wet , or monsoon ) season and the   dry season , and in some tropical areas , a cool or mild season .
In some parts of the world , special `` seasons '' are loosely   defined based on important events such as a hurricane season , tornado season or a wildfire season .
The six  ecological सीज़न
The four calendar seasons , depicted in   an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
डच निर्यात  in 2006
At the time  of  writing the Netherlands is the 17th largest economy of the world .
( see : List of countries by  जीडीपी ( नाममात्र  ) )
जीडीपी प्रति capita is roughly $ 42,000  which puts it in the top 10 of richest nations in the world ( see : List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) per capita ) .
Between 1996 and 2000 annual  आर्थिक  growth ( GDP ) averaged over 4 % , well above the European average .
Growth  slowed  considerably in 2001-05 as part of the global economic slowdown .
2006  और  2007 however showed economic growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 % .
The Dutch economy was hit considerably by the ongoing global financial crisis  और the ensuing यूरोपीय  debt crisis .
Several banks went bankrupt  , and a number of  others had to receive governmental aid .
In 2009 the economy declined with 3.5 % , followed by two years of mild   growth .
The Dutch economy is currently in a recession  again , with  an economic decline of 0.5 % in 2012 .
Inflation is at  3.2 %  in February 2013 .
Unemployment has been relatively low compared to other EU nations for decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and  in फ़रवरी  2013 it has hit 7.7 % .
The  नीदरलैंड्स प्रबंधित to maintain इसके aaa दरजा at तनिक जबतक कूच 2013 according to the तीन प्रमुख क्रेडिट दरजा एजेंसियों .
Historically , the Dutch introduced and invented the   stock market by the merchandise trading through Dutch West India Company .
The Netherlands is a  founding  member of the European Union , the OECD and the World Trade Organization .
Loyal to the Game is the tenth studio album and sixth studio album by Tupac  shakur  .
It contains remixes of previously  unreleased म्यूज़िक अंकित by shakur  before his death in 1996 .
Released in the United States on December 14 , 2004 ( December 12 in the  United Kingdom ) ,  Loyal to the Game was produced by Eminem .
The  असली फलक of the दृश्य ; मेरेडिथ vieira , स्टार जोन्स , डिब्बी matenopoulos और बारबरा walters in 1997 .
The View is an American talk show broadcast on ABC that debuted in 1997  as भाग  of the network 's daytime programming block .
Created by Barbara  walters और विधेयक  Geddie , who both also serve as the show 's executive producers , the program features a panel of women as co-hosts .
Along with Walters , the current  फलक  includes Whoopi Goldberg , who serves as the moderator , Joy Behar , Elisabeth Hasselbeck , and Sherri Shepherd .
अंतरराष्ट्रीय  versions of the program are aired in several countries .
As of the 2012–13 season , its 16th , The View is the fourth-longest running national daytime talk show in history ,  पीछे the फिल donahue  Show ( 29 ) , the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25  )  , and The Oprah Winfrey Show ( 25 ) .
Prunus virginiana , commonly called bitter-berry , chokecherry , Virginia bird cherry and western chokecherry ( also black chokecherry for P. virginiana var . demissa ) , is a species of bird cherry (  prunus subgenus  Padus ) native to North America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana includes most of the continent , except for the far north and far south .
Los Angeles International  विमानक्षेत्र is the प्राथमिक विमानक्षेत्र सेवारत the  Greater Los Angeles Area , the second-most populated metropolitan area in the United States .
It is most often referred to by its  iata विमानक्षेत्र कोड  LAX , with the letters pronounced individually .
LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles along the Pacific coast in the neighborhood of Westchester , from the downtown core and is the primary airport  of Los Angeles World  Airports ( LAWA ) , an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports .
In 2011 , LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the world after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport , Beijing Capital International Airport , London Heathrow Airport , Chicago O'Hare International  विमानक्षेत्र , और  Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers .
The airport holds the claim for `` the world 's busiest origin and destination ( O & D )  विमानक्षेत्र  '' in 2011 that involves non-connecting passenger traffic .
It is also the only airport to rank among the top five U.S. airports for both passenger and cargo   traffic .
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area , but other airports including Bob Hope Airport ,  जॉन वेन  Airport , Long Beach Airport , LA/Ontario International Airport , and Palm Springs International Airport also serve the region .
LAX is also the busiest airport in California and the West Coast of the United States in terms of flight operations ,  यात्री ट्रैफ़िक  and air cargo activity , leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim `` .
Peyton Williams  मैनिंग ( born कूच 24 , 1976 ) is an  American football quarterback for the Denver Broncos of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He played for the Indianapolis Colts  for 14  seasons from 1998 to 2011 .
He is the son of former NFL quarterback Archie Manning and an elder brother  of  New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning .
Manning played college football for the University of Tennessee  , leading the  Volunteers to the 1997 SEC Championship in his senior season .
However , No . 3 Tennessee lost to the No . 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in the Orange Bowl giving Nebraska and Tom Osborne their 3rd national championship  in 4 सालो  .
He was chosen by the Indianapolis Colts  साथ the पहला  overall pick in the 1998 NFL Draft .
From 1998 to 2010 , he led the Colts to eight ( seven AFC  दक्षिण और एक afc ईस्ट  ) division championships , two AFC championships , and to a Super Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ) .
he रै जीती a रिकार्ड चार लीग सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार , थी the सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of सुपर कटोरी xli , रै महरूम नामित to बारह प्रो प्याले , रै बारह 4,000-yard गुजर सीज़न , और is the इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस ' all-time नेता in गुजर गज ( 54,828 ) और touchdown गुजरता ( 399 )  .
In 2009 , he was named the best player in the NFL and Fox Sports along with  खेल illustrated नामित  him the NFL player of the decade of the 2000s .
In May 2011 , he underwent neck surgery to alleviate neck pain and arm weakness he dealt with during the previous few  सीज़न पहले हस्ताक्षर  a five-year , $ 90 million contract extension with the Colts in July 2011 .
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011 season , but in September 2011 , he  underwent a much अधिक  serious second surgery : a level one cervical fusion procedure .
Manning had never missed an NFL game in his career , but was forced to miss the entire  2011 ऋतु  .
he थी released by the कोल्टस on कूच 7 , 2012 , और बाद an लगभग two-week काल जहाँ he visited साथ और worked आउट लिये अनेक एनएफएल टीमों , he हस्ताक्षरित साथ the डेनवर broncos on कूच 20 , 2012 .
Manning 's pre-snap routine has earned him the nickname , `` The Sheriff '' and is one of the most recognizable and  parodied  in the NFL .
the इंडियानापोलिस  Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up offense led to Manning using an array of gestures and verbal commands to call the play at the line of scrimmage rather than in the huddle .
The America Tower of the  अमरीकी सामान्य  Center , the headquarters of Baker Hughes
Baker Hughes is one of the world 's largest  oilfield  services companies .
It operates in over 90 countries , providing the oil and gas industry with products and services for drilling , formation evaluation , completion  , उत्पादन  and reservoir consulting .
Baker Hughes has  इसके मुख्यालय  in the America Tower in the American General Center in Neartown , Houston .
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed when Baker  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  and Hughes Tool Company merged in 1987 .
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with major offices  in लिवरपूल  , United Kingdom ; Singapore ; Dubai ; a research and maintenance facility in Celle , Germany ; Lafayette , Louisiana ; Houston , Texas ; Pescara , Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia .
The company is administered broadly in two hemispheres : the eastern hemisphere with five regions ( Europe , Africa  , the Middle East ,  Asia Pacific and Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( Canada , US Land , US Gulf , and Latin America ) .
Each of  ये  regions is subdivided into markets .
The United States one- cent coin , commonly known as a penny , is a unit of currency equaling one one-hundredth of a  संयुक्त  States dollar .
The  cent  's symbol is ¢ .
Its obverse has featured the profile of President Abraham Lincoln since 1909 ,   the centennial of his birth .
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln 's birth ) to 2008 , the reverse  प्रदर्शित the lincoln  Memorial .
चार अलग रिवर्स डिजाइन  in 2009 honored Lincoln 's 200th birthday and a new , permanent reverse – the Union Shield – was introduced in 2010 .
The coin is 0.75 inches  ( 19.05 mm  ) in diameter and 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness .
The U.S. Mint 's official name for a penny is `` '' and the U.S. Treasury 's official name  is  `` one cent piece '' .
The colloquial term penny derives from the British coin of the   same name , the pre-decimal version of which had a similar value .
In American English , pennies is the plural form , other plural forms pence and pee ( standard use in British English  ) हैं  not used .
as of 2012 , it लागत the u.S. मिंट 2.00 सेंट to मेक a cent क्युकी of the लागत of सामग्री और उत्पादन  .
This figure includes   the Mint’s fixed components for distribution and fabrication , estimated at $ 13 million in FY 2011 .
It also includes Mint overhead allocated to  the पैनी  , which was $ 17.7 million for 2011 .
Fixed costs and overhead would have to be absorbed by other   circulating coins without the penny .
The loss in   profitability due to producing the one cent coin in the United States for the year of 2012 was $ 58,000,000 .
This was a slight decrease from 2011 , the year before , which   had a production loss of $ 60,200,000 .
or more specifically , are ornamental varieties of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept  लिये  decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens .
Koi varieties are distinguished by coloration , patterning ,  और  scalation .
Some of the major colors are white  , ब्लैक  , red , yellow , blue , and cream .
the सबसे लोकप्रिय श्रेणी of कोई is the gosanke , जिससे is बना up of the kohaku , taisho sanshoku , और showa sanshoku किस्में  .
The American Federation of Government Employees (  afge ) is an अमरीकी मजदूर संघ representing over  650,000 employees of the federal government , about 5,000 employees of the District of Columbia , and a few hundred private sector employees , mostly in and around federal facilities .
AFGE is the largest union for civilian , non- postal federal employees and the largest union for District of  कोलंबिया कर्मचारी जो रपट सीधे  to the mayor ( i.e. , outside of D.C. public schools ) .
it is संबद्ध  with the AFL-CIO .
A late Silurian  sporangium  .
ग्रीन  : A spore tetrad .
Blue : A spore bearing  a trilete चिह्नित  – the -shaped scar .
The spores are about 30-35 μm  आरपार
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing levels of complexity , from  the earliest algal mats ,  through bryophytes , lycopods , ferns to the complex gymnosperms and angiosperms of today .
While many of the groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive , especially in  the  environments in which they evolved , for a time each new grade of organisation became more `` successful '' than its predecessors .
In the Ordovician period , around ,  the  first land plants appeared .
These began to diversify in the late Silurian Period , around , and the results of their diversification are displayed in remarkable  विवरण in an जल्दी devonian  fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert .
इस  chert preserved early plants in cellular detail , petrified in volcanic springs .
By the middle of the Devonian Period , most of the features recognised in  पौधे आज हैं उपस्थित , सहित जड़ें ,  leaves and secondary wood ; and , by late Devonian times , seeds had evolved .
Late Devonian plants had thereby reached a degree of   sophistication that allowed them to form forests of tall trees .
विकासवादी नवीनता जारी into the carboniferous काल और is स्टिल जारी आज .
Most plant groups were relatively unscathed by the Permo-Triassic  extinction  event , although the structures of communities changed .
This may have set the scene for the appearance of the flowering plants  in  the Triassic ( ~ ) , and their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene .
The  नवीनतम प्रमुख समूह of पौधे to evolve यहूद the grasses , जिससे became महत्वपूर्ण in the mid-paleogene , इससे around .
The  grasses , as खूब as अनेक अन्य समूह , विकसित नई mechanisms of चयापचय to जीवित the कम और गरम , शुष्क शर्तें of the ऊष्णकटिबन्ध over the पिछला .
The winning Super Bowl team  receives the  Vince Lombardi Trophy .
The Super  कटोरी is an  annual American football game that determines the champion of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
The contest  is held in an  American city that is chosen three to four years beforehand , usually in warm-weather or domed sites .
Since 1971 , the winner of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) Championship Game has faced the winner of the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) चैंपियनशिप  Game in the culmination of the NFL playoffs .
Before  the 1970 विलय  between the American Football League ( AFL ) and the National Football League ( NFL ) , the two leagues met in four such contests .
The first two were  ज्ञात  as the `` AFL-NFL World Championship Game . ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first such game that carried the `` Super Bowl ''  moniker , the  names `` Super Bowl I `` and `` Super Bowl II `` were retroactively applied to the first two games .
The NFC /NFL leads in Super Bowl wins with 25 , while the AFC /AFL has  जीती 22 .
Eighteen different franchises , including  टीमों कि relocated  to another city , have won the Super Bowl .
The Pittsburgh Steelers have won the most Super Bowls  with six championships (  record 6–2 ) , while both the Dallas Cowboys and San Francisco 49ers have five wins each ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ) .
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most Super Bowl appearances with eight , while   the Buffalo Bills have the most consecutive appearances with four losses in a row from 1990 to 1993 .
The New England Patriots , Denver Broncos and Minnesota   Vikings have also lost a record four Super Bowls .
Buffalo and  मिनेसोटा  are both 0–4 , Denver is 2–4 and New England is 3–4 .
The record for consecutive wins is two and is shared by  सात franchises : the 1966-67 ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स  , the 1972-73 Miami Dolphins , the 1974-75 and 1978-79 Pittsburgh Steelers ( the only team to accomplish this feat twice ) , the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers , the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys , the 1997-98 Denver Broncos , and the 2003-04 New England Patriots .
The only team with multiple Super  कटोरी  appearances and no losses is the Baltimore Ravens , who in winning Super Bowl XLVII unseated and replaced the 49ers in that position .
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in  a सुपर कटोरी , सहित मताधिकार relocations और renaming : the क्लीवलैंड भूरा , डेट्रॉयट शेर , jacksonville jaguars , और ह्यूस्टन texans , हालांकि दोनो the भूरा और शेर था जीती एनएफएल चैंपियनशिप खेल prior to the सृष्टि of the सुपर कटोरी .
मार्टिन  County is a county located in the U.S. state of Texas .
As of the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  , its population was 4,799 .
Its seat is  stanton  .
The county is  नामित लिये  Wylie Martin , an early settler .
Martin County is one of 30 prohibition , or entirely dry ,  काउंटी  in the state of Texas .
Alkaline phosphatase ( ALP , ALKP ) ( ) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups from many types of molecules , including  nucleotides , प्रोटीन , और alkaloids  .
the प्रक्रम  of removing the phosphate group is called dephosphorylation .
As the name  suggests , क्षारीय  phosphatases are most effective in an alkaline environment .
It is sometimes used synonymously as  मौलिक  phosphatase .
Triticale  ( × Triticosecale  ) , ( ) is a hybrid of wheat ( Triticum ) and rye ( Secale ) first bred in laboratories during the late 19th century .
The grain was originally bred in Scotland  और स्वीडन  .
Commercially available triticale is almost always a second generation hybrid  ,  i.e. , a cross between two kinds of primary ( first cross ) triticales .
As a rule , triticale combines the yield potential and grain quality of wheat with the disease and  पर्यावरणीय  tolerance ( including soil conditions ) of rye .
Only  recently  has it been developed into a commercially viable crop .
Depending on the cultivar , triticale can more or less resemble either of its   parents .
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder , although some triticale-based foods can be purchased at  स्वास्थ्य खाना स्टोर्स  or are to be found in some breakfast cereals .
When crossing wheat and rye , wheat is used as the female parent and rye as  the पुरूष जनक (  pollen donor ) .
The resulting hybrid is sterile , and must be treated with colchicine to induce polyploidy and thus the ability to  reproduce  itself .
The primary producers of   triticale are Poland , Germany , France , Belarus and Australia .
In 2009 , according  to the Food and  Agriculture Organization ( FAO ) , 15.0 million tons were harvested in 29 countries across the world .
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid , which means the plant is diploid for two genomes derived  इससे अलग  species .
In other words ,  triticale  is an allotetraploid .
in पहले सालो , सबसे कार्य थी किया on octoploid triticale .
Different ploidy levels have been created and evaluated  over समय  .
The tetraploids showed little promise , but  hexaploid  triticale was successful enough to find commercial application .
The  cimmyt triticale  improvement program wanted to improve food production and nutrition in developing countries .
Triticale has potential in the production of bread and other food products , such as cookies  , pasta  , pizza dough and breakfast cereals .
The protein content is higher than that of wheat , although   the glutenin fraction is less .
The grain has also been stated to have higher levels of lysine than   wheat .
Assuming increased acceptance , the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale , as the milling  तकनीकों employed लिये  wheat are unsuited to triticale .
Sell et al . found triticale could be used as a feed grain , and later research found its  starch  was particularly readily digested .
As   a feed grain , triticale is already well established and of high economic importance .
It has received attention as a  संभावित उर्जा क्रॉप , और  research is currently being conducted on the use of the crop 's biomass in bioethanol production .
`` Puff , the Magic Dragon '' is a song written by Leonard Lipton and Peter Yarrow , and made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter , Paul and Mary in a  1963  recording .
The song  हासिल  great popularity .
a कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल नेशनल चैंपियनशिप in the उच्चतम स्तर of कॉलेजिएट खेल in the संयुक्त राज्य , फिलहाल the नेशनल कॉलेजिएट एथलेटिक संघ ( ncaa ) प्रभाग i फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी subdivision ( fbs ) , is a नामांकन awarded annually by विभिन्न third-party संगठन to उनके चयन ( s ) of the बेहतरीन कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल टोली ( s  ) .
प्रभाग i fbs ( formerly प्रभाग  I-A ) football is the only NCAA sport in which a yearly champion is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event .
Because   the championship team is not determined by a NCAA championship or tournament event , it is sometimes unofficially referred to as a `` mythical national championship `` .
Since the NCAA , the sport 's governing body , does not determine or declare a national champion in  इस फ़ील्ड  , determination of such has often engendered controversy .
A championship team  is independently  declared by various individuals and organizations , often referred to as `` selectors '' .
These  चुनाव हैं sometimes  at odds with each other .
While the NCAA has never  officially  endorsed an annual championship team , it has documented the choices of several selectors in the official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records .
In addition , various third party analysts have independently published their own lists of what they have determined to be the   most legitimate selections for each season .
These are also often at odds with each other as well as individual school 's claims on  national  championships , which , for any particular season , may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere .
Currently , two widely recognized national champions selectors are the Associated Press , which conducts a poll of football sportswriters , and the USA Today Coaches ' Poll , a poll of American Football Coaches Association active coaches that is contractually obligated to name the winner of the Bowl Championship  Series  championship game as its national champion .
The  Milwaukee  Brewers are a professional baseball team based in Milwaukee , Wisconsin .
The team is a member of the Central Division of Major League  बेसबॉल 's नेशनल लीग  and plays its home games at Miller Park .
The team is so named because of the city 's  संघ  with the brewing industry .
The Washington Nationals are a professional baseball  team based  in Washington , D.C .
the नागरिकों  are a member of the East Division of the National League of Major League Baseball ( MLB ) .
The team 's home  ballpark  is Nationals Park , located on South Capitol Street in Southeast D.C. , near the Anacostia River .
The park opened in 2008 , replacing RFK Stadium , the team 's home   from 2005 to 2007 .
The Nationals ' name derives from the former Washington baseball team   that had the same name ( used interchangeably with Senators ) .
Their nickname is `` the Nats '' —a shortened version that  was also  used by the old D.C. teams .
An expansion franchise , the club was founded in as the Montreal Expos , the first major league   team in Canada .
They were based in Montreal , Quebec , and played their home games at Jarry Park Stadium   and later in Olympic Stadium .
In , the Expos won a division championship , won their first-ever playoff series by defeating the  Philadelphia Phillies , 3–2 , and  advanced to the National League Championship Series , where they would go on to lose to the Los Angeles Dodgers , 3–2 , in their only postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season .
The Expos had their highest winning percentage in the  strike-shortened  season of , when the team had the best record in baseball .
The team 's subsequent shedding of players caused fan interest  to बूँद  off .
After the 2001 season , MLB  माना revoking  the team 's franchise , along with either the Minnesota Twins or the Tampa Bay Devil Rays .
After  होने खरीदा  by MLB in 2002 , the team was moved before the season to Washington and renamed the Nationals , the first relocation since the second Washington Senators moved to Arlington , Texas , and became the Texas Rangers in .
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises , and the only one in the National League , that has never  निभाई in a संसार श्रेणी ( the सिएटल मैरीनेर्स  are the other ) .
A contingent fee ( in the United States ) or conditional fee ( in  इंग्लैण्ड और वेल्स  ) is any fee for services provided where the fee is payable only if there is a favourable result .
In the law , it is defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's services only   if the lawsuit is successful or is favorably settled out of court ... .
Contingent fees are usually calculated as a  प्रतिशत of  the client 's net recovery . ''
In the English legal system , it is generally  referred  to as no win no fee .
A conditional fee  अनुबंध between  a law firm and a client .
The usual form of this agreement is that the solicitor will take a law case on the  समझना  that if lost , no payment is made .
however , if the मामला is  won , the lawyer will be entitled to the normal fee based on hourly billing , plus a success fee .
The  कामयाबी  fee in England must be as a percentage no greater than 100 % of the normal fee .
This contrasts with   the contingency fee in the US , which gives the successful attorney a percentage of the damages awarded in favor of his client .
This   makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights since otherwise , to sue someone for a tort , one must first be wealthy enough to pursue such litigation in the first place .
however , क्युकी of the ऊँची रिस्क , few attorneys होगा लो मामले on a आकस्मिकता आधार जबतक वे महसूस the मामला रै शुभ मेरिट .
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer , contingent fees were allowed as of that year in the following countries : Australia , Brazil , Canada , the Dominican Republic , France , Greece , Ireland , Japan , New Zealand , the United Kingdom and  the United  States .
They   are also allowed in personal injury actions in Lithuania .
Recently ,   they have been allowed in Belgium as well .
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling  साथ ' ,  translating the Greek ecclesia ) is a group of people formally assembled for a special purpose .
Sons of Anarchy is a television drama series created by Kurt Sutter about the lives of a close-knit outlaw motorcycle club operating in Charming , a fictional town in California  's Central  Valley .
The show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' Teller ( Charlie Hunnam ) , the then-vice president of the club  , who  begins questioning the club and himself .
Sons of  अराजकता  premiered on September 3 , 2008 , on cable network FX .
The third season of the series attracted  an औसत of 4.9 लाख  viewers per week , making it FX 's highest rated series ever , surpassing FX 's other hits The Shield , Nip/Tuck , and Rescue Me .
On February 3 , 2012 , Sons of Anarchy was renewed for two additional seasons , a fifth and a  छठे  .
Those involved in the production of the series imply  कि  a seventh and final season is creator Kurt Sutter 's plan .
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '' , singular : ) and  the ज्वालामुखी of  the same name are in South-East Iceland .
They are in the highlands of Iceland at  the  northwestern side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap .
The lakes  are  at , at an elevation of .
Beneath the lakes  is the मैग्मा  chamber of the Grímsvötn volcano .
Grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano which has  the उच्चतम  eruption frequency of all the volcanoes in Iceland and has a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system .
The massive  climate-impacting  Laki fissure eruption of 1783–1784 was a part of the same fissure system .
Grímsvötn was erupting at the same time as Laki during 1783 , but continued  to erupt  until 1785 .
Because most of the volcano lies underneath Vatnajökull , most of its eruptions have been subglacial and the interaction  of मैग्मा और  meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity .
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC , an eruption began , with high plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes , resulting  in रद्दीकरण  of 900 flights in Iceland , and in the United Kingdom , Greenland , Germany , Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May .
Until  25 may  the eruption scale had been larger than that of the 2010 eruption of Eyjafjallajökull .
The eruption stopped at 02:40 UTC on 25 May 2011 , although there was some explosive activity from the tephra vents affecting only the area  around  the crater .
Vetting is the   process of performing a background check on someone before offering them employment , conferring an award , etc .
A prospective person or project may be  vetted पहले  making a hiring decision .
In addition , in intelligence gathering , assets are vetted to determine their  उपयोगिता  .
Former headquarters and current   corporate offices
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's Entertainment from 1995 to 2010 ) is an American public gaming corporation that owns and  operates over 50  casinos , hotels , and seven golf courses under several brands .
The company , based in Paradise , Nevada , is the largest gaming company in the world , with  सालाना revenues  of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ) .
Caesars is a public company , with a joint venture of Apollo Global Management and Texas Pacific Group ownig a large portion of the stack and  blackstone  Group also holding a significant stake .
The name change from `` Harrah 's Entertainment  Inc. '' to ``  Caesars Entertainment Corporation '' was made official on November 23 , 2010 .
harrah 's  remains a key brand in the company .
On November 5 , 2010 , Harrah 's announced an initial public offering of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this offering on November   19 .
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a Canadian citizen but who has been granted permission to live and work in Canada without any time limit  on his or  her stay .
A permanent resident must live in Canada for two years out of every five or risk losing that  औकात  .
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same rights and responsibilities as a Canadian citizen , among others the  right to work  for any enterprise as well as for the federal or provincial government ( under restriction of access rights to certain regulated professions ) .
The main  मतभेद  are that residents can not :
vote in  चुनावों  in Canada ;
run for elected  दफ्तर  ;
hold Canadian  passports  ;
In addition , they may be allowed to  join  Canada 's armed forces if the national interest would not be prejudiced .
Permanent residents also risk deportation for serious  अपराधों वचनबद्ध  while resident in Canada .
Permanent residents may apply for Canadian citizenship   after three years in Canada ; however this is not mandatory .
Erica Kane is a fictional character from the American ABC Daytime soap opera All My   Children .
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on January 16 , 1970 until the last broadcast television  episode aired  on September 23 , 2011 .
On  फ़रवरी  11 , 2013 , it was announced that Lucci will guest-star on the Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children .
In the U.S. , Erica is  माना to  be the most popular character in soap opera history .
Regarding the North-American market , TV Guide  calls her `` unequivocally the  most famous soap opera character in the history of daytime TV '' , and included her in their 2013 list of The 60 Nastiest Villains of All Time .
A graph of the US  cpi इससे  1913 to 2006 ( in blue ) , and its percent annual change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) measures changes in the price level of a market basket of consumer goods and services purchased by   households .
The CPI in the United States is  defined by the Bureau of  Labor Statistics as `` a measure of the average change over time in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market basket of consumer goods and services . ''
The CPI is a statistical estimate constructed using the prices of a sample of representative items whose prices are collected  periodically  .
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different categories and sub-categories of goods and services , being combined to produce the overall index with weights  reflecting उनके साझा in the कुल of the उपभोक्ता  expenditures covered by the index .
It is one of several  दाम indices  calculated by most national statistical agencies .
The   annual percentage change in a CPI is used as a measure of inflation .
A CPI can  be प्रयुक्त to अनुक्रमणिका ( i.e.  , adjust for the effect of inflation ) the real value of wages , salaries , pensions , for regulating prices and for deflating monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values .
In most countries , the CPI is , along with the population census and the USA National Income and Product Accounts , one of the most closely watched   national economic statistics .
Knocking on wood , or to touch wood , refers to the apotropaic tradition in western folklore of literally touching/knocking on wood , or merely stating that you are doing or intend same , in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` after making a favourable observation , a boast , or  घोषणा  concerning one 's own death .
रॉकर  arm
Generally referred to within  the context of the internal  combustion engine of automotive , marine , motorcycle and reciprocating aviation engines , the rocker arm is an oscillating lever that conveys radial movement from the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it .
One end is raised and lowered by a rotating lobe of the camshaft ( either  सीधे or via a tappet ( lifter  ) and pushrod ) while the other end acts on the valve stem .
When the camshaft lobe raises the outside of the arm , the inside presses down on  the  valve stem , opening the valve .
When the outside of the arm is permitted to return due to the camshafts rotation , the inside rises , allowing the valve spring to  बंद the वाल्व  .
The  ड्राइव कैम is चलित by the camshaft .
This pushes the rocker arm up and down about the trunnion pin or  रॉकर  shaft .
Friction may be reduced at  the पाइंट  of contact with the valve stem by a roller cam follower .
A similar  व्यवस्था  transfers the motion via another roller cam follower to a second rocker arm .
This rotates about the rocker shaft , and  हस्तांतरण the गति  via a tappet to the poppet valve .
In this case this opens the intake valve to the  बेलन  head .
The effective  leverage of the भुजा (  and thus the force it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the rocker arm ratio , the ratio of the distance from the rocker arm 's center of rotation to the tip divided by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod .
Current  ऑटोमोटिव डिज़ाइन  favors rocker arm ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1 .
However , in the past smaller positive ratios ( the valve lift  is वृहद  than the cam lift ) and even negative ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used .
Many pre-WW2 engines use 1:1 ( neutral ) ratios   .
For car engines the rocker arms are generally steel stampings , providing a reasonable  balance of  strength , weight and economical cost .
Because the rocker  बाहें हैं , in भाग , प्रत्यागमनी  weight , excessive mass especially at the lever ends limits the engine 's ability to reach high operating speeds .
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in  Georgia '' is a  Southern Gothic song written by songwriter Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence .
Reba McEntire later  covered  it in 1991 .
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western Studios on Sunset in Hollywood and released less than two weeks later in November 1972 , the song centers around the older brother of the narrator , falsely  convicted of और चलाया  for a murder , which the narrator herself has committed .
In postal mail , a return address is an explicit inclusion of  the address  of the person sending the message .
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine  कैसा to respond to the  sender of the message if needed .
The return address need not include a sender 's name , but should include address or  p.o .  box details in the same way as the delivery address should .
In some countries , the return address is conventionally located in the  अपर बाएँ हाथ  corner of the envelope , card , or label .
In the United Kingdom , the return  पता  is usually placed on the reverse of the envelope , near the top .
Businesses often use envelopes   preprinted with a return address .
Many individuals have  sheets of  adhesive labels preprinted with their home address to affix to their correspondence .
Charities  sometimes  include such sheets in mailshots .
Rolls of Return Address Labels can be purchased from companies that sell personalized labels to provide individuals an easy way to peel and  stick  return address labels to their envelopes .
The return address is  नहीं  required on postal mail .
however , कमी of a वापसी पता रोकता the डाक सेवा इससे होने समर्थ to वापसी the मद if it proves undeliverable ; ऐसे as इससे क्षति , postage due , or अमान्य गंतव्य  .
Such mail may thus  become  dead letter mail .
Should the return  पता  be of a different state or country , the mail may be routed through that location for ease of return .
A nerve guidance conduit (  भी referred to as an कृत्रिम तंत्रिका  conduit or artificial nerve graft , as opposed to an autograft ) is an artificial means of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve regeneration and is one of several clinical treatments for nerve injuries .
When direct suturing of the two stumps of a severed nerve can not be accomplished without tension , the standard clinical treatment for peripheral nerve injuries   is autologous nerve grafting .
Due to the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery in  autologous तंत्रिका  grafting , neural tissue engineering research has focused on the development of bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment , especially for large defects .
Similar techniques are also being explored for nerve repair in the spinal cord but nerve regeneration in the central nervous system poses a greater challenge because its axons do not regenerate appreciably in their native   environment .
The creation of artificial conduits is  also known  as entubulation because the nerve ends and intervening gap are enclosed within a tube composed of biological or synthetic materials .
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube , synthetic tube or tissue-engineered conduit , it should  सुकर neurotropic और neurotrophic संचार between the proximal  and distal ends of the nerve gap , block external inhibitory factors , and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth .
The most basic objective of a nerve guidance  conduit  is to combine physical , chemical , and biological cues under conditions that will foster tissue formation .
Materials that have been used to make biologic tubes include blood vessels and skeletal muscles , while  nonabsorbable  and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made from silicone and polyglycolide respectively .
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a combination of many elements : scaffold structure , scaffold material , cellular therapies , neurotrophic factors  and  biomimetic materials .
The choice of which physical , chemical and biological cues to use is based on the properties of the nerve environment , which  is critical in  creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration .
The factors that control material selection include biocompatibility , biodegradability , mechanical   integrity , controllability during nerve growth , implantation and sterilization .
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series produced by RDF USA ( later Zodiak USA ) and Richard Dominick Productions for truTV about the day-to-day operations  of American Jewelry and Loan , a family-owned pawn shop located at  20450 Greenfield Road , between 8 Mile Road and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit , Michigan .
The series premiered on August 16 , 2010 , delivering two million viewers , setting a record as truTV 's most-watched series premiere  कभी  .
amoxicillin  BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ) , formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ) , and abbreviated amox , is a  moderate-spectrum  , bacteriolytic , β-lactam antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms .
It is usually the drug  of  choice within the class because it is better absorbed , following oral administration , than other β-lactam antibiotics .
Amoxicillin is one of the most common antibiotics prescribed   for children .
The  ड्रग  became available in 1972 .
Amoxicillin is susceptible to degradation by β-lactamase -producing bacteria  , which  are resistant to a broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics , such as penicillin .
For this reason , it is often combined with clavulanic   acid , a β-lactamase inhibitor .
This increases  प्रभावकारिता  by reducing its susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance .
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 – January 22 , 1973 ) , often referred to as LBJ , was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969  ) , a position he assumed after his  service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only four people who served in all four elected federal  कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त  States : Representative , Senator , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United  States  Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961 , including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After  campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960 , जॉनसन थी पूछा by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके कार्यशील mate लिये the 1960 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22 , 1963 , completed  Kennedy 's  term and was elected President in his own right , winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible for  डिजाइनिंग  the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld civil rights , public broadcasting , Medicare , Medicaid , environmental protection , aid to education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the `` Johnson treatment , '' his coercion of powerful politicians  in order to  advance legislation .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War , from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat  सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968 , as  American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially  on  university campuses in the U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965 , and crime   rates soared , as his opponents raised demands for `` law and order '' policies .
The  लोकतांत्रिक  Party split in multiple feuding factions , and after Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary , he ended his bid for reelection .
Republican Richard Nixon was elected to  सफल  him .
इतिहासकारों  argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the peak of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era .
Johnson is ranked favorably by some historians  क्युकी  of his domestic policies .
the बिग बंग सिद्धान्त डाल at कॉमिक कॉन 2009 , इससे बाएँ : कुणाल नय्यर , साइमन helberg , kaley cuoco , जिम पार्सन्स , और जॉनी galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory , created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady , premiered   on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter , two Caltech  physicists ; पैनी , a वेट्रेस  and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz , and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist colleague , and , at different times , a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette  rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ) , a microbiologist  , Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife , and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The show also features   numerous supporting characters , each of whom plays a prominent role in a small group of episodes .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that  घोषित उनके secession और formed the  Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the extension  of  slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers did not intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the  मुश्किल पुनर्निर्माण  process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery  into  United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861  ,  seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming  republicans  rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would not  initiate सिविल युद्ध  .
Eight remaining slave states   continued to reject calls for secession .
confederate शक्तियां जब्त numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory claimed by the confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise , and both  पहलू prepared लिये युद्ध  .
the confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so निर्भर on `` किंग कपास `` कि वे होता intervene ; none किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य  of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by  Union troops in  South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the Confederacy  , bringing  their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and  स्थापित a नवल  blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with  confederate रिट्रीट at  the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made   ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the  मिसिसिपी  River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate  incursion  north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western   successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the  sea , destroying  Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards   Richmond , the Confederate capital .
the defending confederate फौज विफल , अग्रणी to ली 's आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox अदालत हाउस on अप्रैल 9 , 1865  .
The American Civil War was one  of the  earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships   , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The  mobilization  of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
it remains  the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent  of  all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Human evolution refers to the evolutionary process leading up   to the appearance of modern humans .
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life , the topic usually covers only the evolutionary history of primates , in particular the genus Homo , and the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct  species of  hominids ( or `` great apes '' ) .
The study of human evolution involves many  वैज्ञानिक disciplines  , including physical anthropology , primatology , archaeology , linguistics , evolutionary psychology , embryology and genetics .
According to genetic studies , primates diverged   from other mammals about in the Late Cretaceous period , and the earliest fossils appear in the Paleocene , around .
The family Hominidae diverged from the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon ) family 15-20 million years ago , and around , the Ponginae (  orangutans ) , diverged इससे the मानवनुमा  family .
bipedalism  is the basic adaption of the Hominin line , and the earliest bipedal Hominin is considered to be either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin , with Ardipithecus , a full bipedal , coming somewhat later .
The gorilla and chimpanzee diverged around the same time , about 4-6 million years ago , and either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin may be our last shared   ancestor with them .
The early   bipedals eventually evolved into the australopithecines and later the genus Homo .
The earliest documented members of the genus Homo are Homo habilis which evolved around ; the earliest species for which there is positive  प्रमाण of उपयोग of स्टोन टूल्स .
The brains of  ये जल्दी  hominins were about the same size as that of a chimpanzee .
During the next million years a process of encephalization   began , and with the arrival of Homo erectus in the fossil record , cranial capacity had doubled to 850 cm3 .
Homo erectus   and Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to leave Africa , and these species spread through Africa , Asia , and Europe between .
It is believed that these species were the first to use fire  and  complex tools .
According to the Recent African Ancestry theory , modern humans evolved  in अफ़्रीकी संभवतः  from Homo heidelbergensis , Homo rhodesiensis or Homo antecessor and migrated out of the continent some 50,000 to 100,000 years ago , replacing local populations of Homo erectus , Homo denisova , Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis .
Archaic Homo sapiens , the forerunner of  anatomically आधुनिक  humans , evolved between 400,000 and 250,000 years ago .
Recent DNA evidence  suggests कि अनेक haplotypes of neanderthal उत्पत्ति  are present among all non-African populations , and Neanderthals and other hominids , such as Denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of their genome to present-day humans. < ref name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202 '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic , about 200,000 years ago .
The  परिवर्तन  to behavioral modernity with the development of symbolic culture , language , and specialized lithic technology happened around 50,000 years ago according to many anthropologists although some suggest a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span .
Lisa Cuddy , M.D . , is a fictional character  on the  Fox network medical drama House .
She  is  portrayed by Lisa Edelstein .
Cuddy was the Dean of Medicine and hospital administrator of the fictional  princeton-plainsboro  Teaching Hospital in New Jersey .
She also becomes House 's love interest   through the years to start a relationship with him in season seven .
Cuddy quit her job after the  कार्यक्रम  of season seven 's finale `` Moving On `` .
Track and  फ़ील्ड is a खेल  comprising various competitive athletic contests based on running , jumping , and throwing .
The name of the  खेल गर्भाशयी  from the competition venue : a stadium with an oval running track around a grass field .
The throwing and jumping events generally  लो  place in the central enclosed area .
Track and field falls under the umbrella sport of athletics , which also includes road running , cross  देश कार्यशील ,  and race walking .
The  दो सबसे prestigious अंतरराष्ट्रीय track और फ़ील्ड प्रतियोगिताओं हैं आयोजित अंतर्गत the ध्वज of एथलेटिक्स : the एथलेटिक्स प्रतियोगिता at the ओलम्पिक खेल और the आइएएएफ संसार championships in एथलेटिक्स .
The International Association of  एथलेटिक्स federations  is the international governing body for track and field .
Track and field events are generally   individual sports with athletes challenging each other to decide a single victor .
The racing events are won by the athlete with the fastest time , while the jumping and throwing events  are won by the  athlete who has achieved the greatest distance or height in the contest .
The  running  events are categorised as sprints , middle and long-distance events , relays , and hurdling .
Regular  कूद कार्यक्रम शामिल  long jump , triple jump , high jump and pole vault , while the most common throwing events are shot put , javelin , discus and hammer .
There are also `` combined events '' ,  ऐसे as heptathlon और decathlon  , in which athletes compete in a number of the above events .
Records  हैं  kept of the best performances in specific events , at world and national levels , right down to a personal level .
However , if athletes are deemed to have violated the event 's rules or   regulations , they are disqualified from the competition and their marks are erased .
In North America , the term track and field may be used to refer to athletics in general , rather than  specifically track और  field events .
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990  – 28  February 1991 ) , codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 February 1991 ) was a war waged by a U.N.-authorized Coalition force from 34 nations led by the United States , against Iraq in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait .
The war is also known under other names , such as the Persian Gulf War , First Gulf War , Gulf War I , or the First Iraq War , before the term `` Iraq War '' became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq War ( also  referred  to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ) .
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 August 1990 was met with international condemnation , and brought immediate economic sanctions against Iraq  by members of  the U.N. Security Council .
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed U.S. forces into Saudi Arabia , and urged other countries to send their  अपना  forces to the scene .
An  सरणी  of nations joined the Coalition .
The great majority of  the  Coalition 's military forces were from the U.S. , with Saudi Arabia , the United Kingdom and Egypt as leading contributors , in that order .
Saudi Arabia paid around US $ 36 billion of the US $ 60  अरब लागत  .
The war was marked by the beginning of live news on the front lines of the fight ,  साथ  the primacy of the U.S. network CNN .
The war has also earned the nickname Video Game War after the  daily broadcast images on  board the U.S. bombers during Operation Desert Storm .
the आरंभिक विरोध to निकाल इराकी सैनिकों इससे कुवैत began साथ an aerial बमबारी on 17 जनवरी 1991 .
This was followed by a ground assault on 24  फ़रवरी  .
This was a decisive victory for the Coalition forces , who liberated Kuwait and  उन्नत  into Iraqi territory .
The Coalition ceased their advance , and declared a cease-fire 100  hours  after the ground campaign started .
Aerial and ground combat was confined to Iraq , Kuwait , and  क्षेत्रों  on Saudi Arabia 's border .
Iraq launched Scud missiles against  गठबन्धन  military targets in Saudi Arabia and against Israel .
The nickel , in American usage  ,  is a five- cent coin issued by the United States Mint .
Composed  of  75 % copper and 25 % nickel , the piece has been struck since 1866 .
The silver half dime , equal to five cents  , had  been issued since the 1790s .
The American Civil War caused economic hardship , driving gold and silver from circulation ; in response , in  प्लेस of low-value  coins , the government at first issued paper currency .
in 1865 , कॉंग्रेस abolished  the five-cent fractional currency note after Spencer M. Clark , head of the Currency Bureau ( today the Bureau of Engraving and Printing ) , placed his own portrait on the denomination .
After successful introduction of two-cent and three-cent pieces , without precious metal , Congress also authorized a five-cent piece consisting of base  मेटल ; the मिंट began striking इस संस्करण  in 1866 .
The initial design of the Shield nickel was struck until 1883 , then replaced by the  स्वतंत्रता  Head nickel .
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in 1913 as part of a drive to increase the  सौंदर्य of अमरीकी coinage  ; in 1938 , the Jefferson nickel followed .
in 2004 और 2005 , खास डिजाइन in सम्मान of the bicentennial of the लुईस और क्लार्क expedition यहूद जारी  .
in 2006 , the मिंट reverted to using जेफरसन निकल पंक्तियां फेलिक्स schlag 's असली रिवर्स ( or `` tails '' पक्ष ) , हालांकि a नई obverse , by जेमी franki , थी substituted  .
As of 2013 , it costs more than  ग्यारह  cents to produce a nickel ; the Mint is exploring the possibility of reducing cost by using less expensive metals .
A  पोस्टर  with flowers or clusters of flowers produced by twelve species of flowering plants from different families
A flower , sometimes known as a bloom or blossom , is the reproductive structure found in flowering  पौधे (  plants of the division Magnoliophyta , also called angiosperms ) .
The  biological  function of a flower is to effect reproduction , usually by providing a mechanism for the union of sperm with eggs .
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs from different individuals in a population ) or allow selfing ( fusion of  शुक्राणु और अंडा  from the same flower ) .
Some  पुष्प  produce diaspores without fertilization ( parthenocarpy ) .
Flowers contain sporangia and are the site where gametophytes  develop  .
Flowers give  वृद्धि to फल  and seeds .
Many flowers have evolved to be attractive to animals , so as to cause them to be vectors for  the  transfer of pollen .
In addition to facilitating the reproduction of flowering plants , flowers have long been admired and used  by humans to beautify their  environment , and also as objects of romance , ritual , religion , medicine and as a source of food .
The McDonnell Douglas ( now Boeing ) F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine , all-weather tactical fighter designed by McDonnell Douglas to   gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat .
It is considered among the most successful  आधुनिक सेनानी , साथ  over 100 aerial combat victories with no losses in dogfights .
Following  समीक्षाएँ of प्रस्ताव , the  United States Air Force selected McDonnell Douglas ' design in 1967 to meet the service 's need for a dedicated air superiority fighter .
The Eagle  पहला उड़ाया  in July 1972 , and entered service in 1976 .
चूंकि the 1970s , the त्रिभुज रै महरूम exported to इसराईल , जापानी , सऊदी अरब , और अन्य राष्ट्र  .
The F-15  थी  originally envisioned as a pure air superiority aircraft .
Its  डिज़ाइन  included a secondary ground-attack capability that was largely unused .
The design proved flexible enough that an all-weather strike   derivative , the F-15E Strike Eagle , was later developed , and entered service in 1989 .
The F-15 Eagle is expected to be in service with the U.S.   Air Force past 2025 .
Mimio is a brand name of a line of technology products aimed at the education   market .
The primary products are focused around  कंप्यूटर whiteboard  interactive teaching devices .
MimioCapture devices also  allow उपयोक्ता  to capture all of the ink strokes that are written on the whiteboard .
When used in conjunction with a video  प्रोजेक्टर  it turns the ordinary whiteboard surface into a fully interactive whiteboard .
The product line was  originally  designed by Virtual Ink .
On October 4 , 2006  newell rubbermaid acquired  the Mimio interactive whiteboard ( iWB ) product line .
rahab  of Jericho
Rahab , ( ; ; ) was , according to the Book of Joshua , a woman who lived in  जेरिको in the promised जमीन  and assisted the Israelites in capturing the city .
Nearly all  अंग्रेज़ी  translations of Joshua describe her as a harlot or prostitute .
The Organization of  अमरीकी राज्य ( स्पेनी :  Organización de los Estados Americanos , Portuguese : Organização dos Estados Americanos , French : Organisation des États américains ) , or the OAS , is a regional international organization .
The OAS was founded on 30 April 1948 , and has its headquarters in Washington , D.C. , United  राज्य  .
इसके सदस्यों  are the 35 independent states of the Americas .
Since 26 May 2005 , the Secretary   General of OAS has been José Miguel Insulza .
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : Cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão Colombo ; before 31 October 145120 May 1506 ) was an Italian explorer , navigator , and colonizer , born in the Republic of Genoa , in what is  आज northwestern  Italy .
Under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain , he completed four voyages across the Atlantic Ocean that led  to सामान्य यूरोपीय  awareness of the American continents .
Those voyages , and his efforts to establish permanent settlements on the island of Hispaniola   , initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World .
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth through the establishment of trade routes and colonies , Columbus 's speculative proposal , to reach the East Indies by sailing westward , eventually received the support of the Spanish crown , which saw in it a promise , however remote , of gaining the upper hand over rival powers in  the प्रतियोगिता लिये the lucrative मसाला  trade with Asia .
दौरान उसके पहला voyage in 1492 , बजाय of reaching जापानी as he था intended , कोलंबस उतरा in the बहामा द्वीपसमूह , at a locale he नामित सैन साल्वाडोर  .
over the कोर्स of तीन अधिक voyages , कोलंबस visited the वृहद और lesser antilles , as खूब as the caribbean coast of वेनेजुएला और सेंट्रल अमेरिका , claiming उन्हें लिये the स्पेनी साम्राज्य  .
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer to reach the Americas ( having been  preceded by the नॉर्स expedition led by leif  Ericson in the 11th century ) , Columbus 's voyages led to the first lasting European contact with the Americas , inaugurating a period of European exploration , conquest , and colonization that lasted for several centuries .
They had , therefore  , an  enormous impact in the historical development of the modern Western world .
Columbus himself saw his accomplishments primarily in the light of the  spreading  of the Christian religion .
Never admitting that he had reached a continent previously unknown to Europeans , rather than the East Indies he had set out for , Columbus called the inhabitants of the  lands he visited indios ( स्पेनी  for `` Indians `` ) .
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators in America led to his arrest and dismissal as governor of the settlements on the island of Hispaniola in 1500 , and later to protracted  litigation over the benefits which  Columbus and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown .
करवाया  in Germany , the Boxer is a breed of stocky , medium-sized , short-haired dogs .
The  कोट is चिकना और  tight-fitting ; colors are fawn or brindled , with or without white markings , which may cover the entire body .
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad , short skulls ) , and have a square muzzle , mandibular prognathism ( an  underbite ) , बहुत दमदार जबड़े , और a  powerful bite ideal for hanging on to large prey .
The Boxer was bred from the Old English Bulldog and the now   extinct Bullenbeisser , and is part of the Molosser group .
Boxers were first exhibited in a dog show for St. Bernards in Munich in 1895 , the first Boxer club being  संस्थापित the  next year .
Based on 2012 American Kennel Club statistics , Boxers held steady as the seventh most  लोकप्रिय नस्ल of श्वान in the  United States for the third consecutive year .
Serial ATA ( SATA ) is a computer  bus interface  that connects host bus adapters to mass storage devices such as hard disk drives and optical drives .
Serial ATA replaces the older AT Attachment standard ( ATA ; later referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ) , offering several advantages over the older interface : reduced cable size and cost ( seven conductors instead  of 40 ) ,  native hot swapping , faster data transfer through higher signalling rates , and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol .
SATA host adapters and devices communicate via a high-speed serial cable over two pairs of conductors   .
In contrast , parallel ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ATA specifications ) used a 16-bit wide data bus with  अनेक अतिरिक्त support और कंट्रोल सिग्नल  , all operating at much lower frequency .
To  ensure पिछड़ा संगतता साथ विरासत ata तन्त्र और अनुप्रयोग , sata उपयोग the वही मौलिक ata और atapi command-set as विरासत ata डिवाइस .
SATA has replaced parallel ATA in consumer desktop and  लैपटॉप  computers , and has largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications .
SATA 's market share in the desktop PC  मार्केट थी  99 % in 2008 .
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded applications that use  compactflash भंडार  , even though the new CFast standard is based on SATA .
Serial ATA industry compatibility specifications originate from The Serial ATA   International Organization ( aka .
SATA-IO ,  serialata.org  ) .
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates , reviews , ratifies , and publishes the interoperability  विशेषताएँ  , the test cases , and plug-fests .
As with many other industry compatibility standards , the SATA content ownership is transferred to other industry bodies : primarily the INCITS T13 subcommittee ATA , the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI (  sas  ) .
The complete  specification  from SATA-IO .
The remainder of this article will try to use the terminology and  विशेषताएँ  of SATA-IO .
The history of the Internet began with the development  of  electronic computers in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California  , Los  Angeles ( UCLA ) , after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET  , Mark I at  NPL in the UK , CYCLADES , Merit Network , Tymnet , and Telenet , were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking , in which multiple separate networks could be joined  together  into a network of networks .
In  1982 , the अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) थी मानकीकृत , और नतीजतन , the अवधारणा of a world-wide संजाल of interconnected tcp/ip संजाल , पुकारा the अंतरजाल , थी introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science Network ( CSNET ) and  again in 1986 जब nsfnet provided अभिगम to  supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations .
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in   the late 1980s and early 1990s .
The ARPANET was decommissioned  in  1990 .
The   Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned , removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic .
चूंकि the mid-1990s , the अंतरजाल रै था a क्रांतिकारी प्रभाव on संस्कृति और कॉमर्स , सहित the वृद्धि of near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल , तत्काल messaging , आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '' , two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स , और the संसार चौड़ी वेब साथ इसके चर्चा forums , ब्लॉग , सोशल नेटवर्किंग , और ऑनलाइन  shopping sites .
The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced networks such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National  lambdarail  .
Increasing  amounts  of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
the अंतरजाल 's कब्ज़ा over the वैश्विक संचार लैंडस्केप थी लगभग तत्काल in ऐतिहासिक शर्तें : it तभी communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way दूरसंचार संजाल in the साल 1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , और अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated सूचना by 2007  .
Today the  अंतरजाल  continues to grow , driven by ever greater amounts of online information , commerce , entertainment , and social networking .
The Gift is the second album by Scottish singer Susan Boyle , which was released on  8 November  2010 .
Boyle hinted that the album has a 1960s feel `` because that was [  her  ] era '' .
on 30  नवम्बर  2011 , the album received a nomination in 54th Grammy Awards for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album .
`` This Is Just To Say  '' (  1934 ) is a famous imagist poem by William Carlos Williams .
प्राध्यापक ऐल्बस पर्सिवल wulfric ब्रायन डम्बल्डोर is a प्रमुख अक्षर और समर्थक of J. K. रोलिंग 's हैरी कुम्हार  series .
For most of the series , he is the headmaster  of the wizarding  school Hogwarts .
As part of his backstory , it is revealed that he is the founder and leader of the Order of the Phoenix , an organisation dedicated to  लड़ the प्रमुख विपक्षी  of the series , Lord Voldemort .
Dumbledore is  portrayed  by Richard Harris in the film adaptions of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone and Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets .
बाद  Harris ' death , Michael Gambon portrayed Dumbledore for all of the remaining films .
Rowling stated she chose the name Dumbledore , which is an Early Modern English word for `` bumblebee `` , because of Dumbledore 's  प्रेम of म्यूज़िक  : she imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot '' .
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide hormone that is produced in humans primarily by the parafollicular cells (  भी ज्ञात as c-cells ) of the थायराइड , और in अनेक  other animals in the ultimobranchial body .
It acts to reduce blood calcium ( Ca2+ ) , opposing the effects of  parathyroid हार्मोन  ( PTH ) .
Calcitonin has been found in  मछली , सरीसृपों  , birds , and mammals .
Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its  importance in other  animals , as its function is usually not significant in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis .
It  belongs  to calcitonin-like protein family .
A mousepad  साथ  a padded wrist rest .
A  mousepad ( us ) or चूहा  mat ( UK ) is a surface for placing and moving a computer mouse .
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse directly on a table by  providing  a surface to allow the tracking LED or ball ( in former models ) to measure movement accurately and without jitter .
Some mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a padded  कलाई  rest .
The stadium seen from above in  1980
दिसम्बर  29 , 2002 implosion
The Riverfront  स्टेडियम  site in June , 2006 .
This photo was taken from the  पश्चिमी concourse  of Great American Ball Park .
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the Reds ' Hall of Fame and  संग्रहालय  and Main Street , which was extended when the new park was built .
The Cincinnati Bengals ' Paul Brown Stadium  is in  the distance .
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ) , later known as Cinergy Field ( 1996–2002 ) , was the home of the Cincinnati Reds National  लीग बेसबॉल टोली और the  Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team .
Located on the Ohio River in downtown Cincinnati , the stadium was best known as the home of `` The Big Red Machine `` , as the  Reds  were often called in the 1970s .
Construction began on February 1 , 1968 , and was completed at a cost of  कम than $ 50 लाख  .
On June 30 , 1970 , the Reds hosted the Atlanta Braves in their grand  खोलने , साथ  Hank Aaron hitting the first ever home run at Riverfront .
Two weeks later on July 14 , 1970 ,  riverfront hosted  the 1970 Major League Baseball All-Star Game .
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed collision  at home plate  between Reds star Pete Rose and catcher Ray Fosse of the Cleveland Indians .
In September 1996 , Riverfront Stadium was renamed `` Cinergy Field '' in a sponsorship deal with Greater Cincinnati 's energy company , Cinergy  निगम  .
In 2001 , to make room for Great American Ball Park , the seating  क्षमता at cinergy  Field was reduced to 39,000 .
There was a huge wall in Center Field visible after the renovations   , to serve as the batter 's eye .
The stadium was   demolished by implosion on December 29 , 2002 .
Nexen Tire is a tire  निर्माता  , headquartered in Yangsan , South Gyeongsang Province , and Seoul , both in South Korea .
Its major  घरेलू  competitors are Hankook Tire and Kumho Tires .
The company 's name is reflected in the company slogan ,  `` Next  Century Tire . ''
The silent majority is an unspecified large majority of people in a country or group who do not  express their  opinions publicly .
The term was popularized ( though not first used ) by U.S. President  Richard Nixon  in a November 3 , 1969 , speech in which he said , `` And so tonight—to you , the great silent majority of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support . ''
in इस उपयोग it referred to those अमेरिकी जो किया नहीं जुड़ें in the विशाल demonstrations विरूद्ध the वियतनाम युद्ध at the समय , जो किया नहीं जुड़ें in the counterculture , और जो किया नहीं participate in पब्लिक प्रवचन .
Nixon along with many others saw this group of Middle Americans as being overshadowed in the media by  the  more vocal minority .
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the people who have died , and others have used it before and after  निक्सन to refer  to groups of voters in various nations of the world .
Sam , a rhesus monkey , flew to an altitude of 88 km   in 1959 .
(  NASA )
Before humans went into space , several animals were launched into   space , including numerous monkeys , so that scientists could investigate the biological effects of space travel .
The United States launched  फ़्लाइट containing  primate cargo primarily between 1948-1961 with one flight in 1969 and one in 1985 .
France launched two  monkey-carrying  flights in 1967 .
the सोवियत  Union and Russia launched monkeys between 1983 and 1996 .
Most monkeys were anesthetized before   lift-off .
Overall thirty-two monkeys flew in the space  कार्यक्रम ; none उड़ाया अधिक  than once .
Numerous back-up monkeys also  गई through  the programs but never flew .
Monkeys from several species were used , including rhesus monkeys , cynomolgus   monkeys , squirrel monkeys , and pig-tailed macaques .
Some chimpanzees ( which are  apes  rather than monkeys ) were also used .
RAID ( redundant array of independent disks , originally redundant array of inexpensive disks ) is a storage technology that  combines  multiple disk drive components into a logical unit .
Data is distributed across the drives in one of several ways called `` RAID levels '' , depending on the level of redundancy and performance   required .
The term `` RAID '' was first defined by David Patterson , Garth A. Gibson  , and  Randy Katz at the University of California , Berkeley in 1987 .
Marketers representing industry RAID manufacturers later attempted to reinvent the term to describe a redundant array of independent disks as a means of   disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology .
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage schemes that can divide and replicate data among multiple physical drives : RAID is an example of storage virtualization and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one  सिंगल  drive .
The different schemes  or  architectures are named by the word RAID followed by a number ( e.g . RAID 0 , RAID 1 ) .
Each scheme provides a different balance  between the कुंजी लक्ष्य  : reliability and availability , performance and capacity .
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide protection against  unrecoverable (  sector ) read errors , as well as whole disk failure .
A lymphocyte is a type of  श्वेत  blood cell in the vertebrate immune system .
Under the microscope , lymphocytes can be divided into large  lymphocytes  and small lymphocytes .
Large granular lymphocytes include  प्राकृतिक  killer cells ( NK cells ) .
Small   lymphocytes consist of T cells and B cells .
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark comedy film written and directed  by जोएल और ethan कोएन  .
Jeff Bridges stars as Jeff Lebowski , an unemployed Los Angeles slacker and avid bowler ,  nicknamed `` the यार  . ''
बाद a मामला of mistaken पहचान , the यार is introduced to a करोड़पति भी नामित जेफरी lebowski .
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped , he  आयोग the  Dude to deliver the ransom to secure her release .
The plan goes awry when The Dude 's friend Walter Sobchak ( John Goodman )  योजनाएं  to keep the full ransom .
Steve Buscemi , Philip Seymour Hoffman , David Huddleston , Julianne Moore , Tara Reid , and John Turturro also star in the film , which is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger  '' , निभाई  by Sam Elliott .
The film is loosely inspired by the work of Raymond Chandler   .
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted  to  do a Chandler kind of story – how it moves episodically , and deals with the characters trying to unravel a mystery , as well as having a hopelessly complex plot that 's ultimately unimportant . ''
The original  score was composed by  Carter Burwell , a longtime collaborator of the Coen Brothers .
The Big Lebowski was a disappointment at the U.S. box office and received mixed reviews at  the time of its  release .
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time , and the film has become  a cult  favorite , noted for its idiosyncratic characters , dream sequences , unconventional dialogue , and eclectic soundtrack .
Severus Snape is a fictional character in the Harry Potter  किताब श्रेणी  written by J.K. Rowling .
In the first novel of the series , he is hostile toward Harry and is built up to be the  प्राथमिक  antagonist until the final chapters .
As the series progresses , Snape 's  अक्षर  becomes more layered and complex .
Rowling does not fully reveal the details of his true loyalties until the end of the final book , Harry Potter  और the deathly hallows  .
Over the course of the series , Snape 's  portrayal evolves  from that of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity .
Snape primarily teaches Potions at Hogwarts , though in the sixth novel he teaches Defence Against the Dark Arts , a position which he was known to  have  desired throughout the series .
He ultimately becomes Headmaster of  हॉग्वार्ट्स  in the final novel .
Rowling has described him as `` a gift of   a character '' .
Grits  refers to a ground-corn खाना of देशी  American origin , that is common in the Southern United States and mainly eaten at breakfast .
Modern grits are commonly made of alkali-treated  मकई ज्ञात as  hominy .
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges from around the world such  as polenta  or the thinner farina .
`` Instant grits '' have been  processed  to speed cooking .
The word `` grits '' derives from the Old  अंग्रेज़ी  word `` grytt , '' meaning coarse meal .
This word originally referred to wheat and other porridges now known as groats in parts of the  u.K..
Maize , unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages , is a food derived from corn ( a New World plant  ) और `` मकई ''  had been used to describe wheat products in many European regions .
`` Grits '' may be either singular or plural ; historically , in the American South the word was invariably singular notwithstanding its plural form ( cf . such food names as `` spaghetti '' or ``  linguine ''  , likewise plural in form , but singular in use ) .
Sometimes ,  grits हैं पुकारा  sofkee or sofkey ( from a native American Muskogee word ) .
In molecular  जीवविज्ञान , इंसान  chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg after conception .
Later during pregnancy it is made  by the विकासशील  placenta , and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore , elevated levels measured when the patient  is not  pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not known whether  इस उत्पादन  is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue of hCG ,  ज्ञात as luteinizing  hormone ( LH ) , is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages .
, the FDA has prohibited the sale  of `` होम्योपैथिक  '' and over the counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
the  Las Vegas Strip World of Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants  , and vending  machines in every country except Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and is often   referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler  , whose marketing tactics  led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers  throughout the  world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company , produce finished product in  cans  and bottles from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The   bottlers then sell , distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail stores and vending machines .
Such  bottlers शामिल coca-cola उद्यमों , जिससे is the largest सिंगल coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और पश्चिमी यूरोपीय .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells  concentrate लिये  soda fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion , introduced other cola drinks under the Coke  ब्रांड  name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke  caffeine-free , coca-cola  Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011 , Coca-Cola was the world 's most  मूल्यवान  brand .
An ombudsman is an official , usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a significant degree of independence , who is charged with representing  the  interests of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or violation of rights .
In some countries an Inspector General , Citizen Advocate or other  official  may have duties similar to those of a national ombudsman , and may also be appointed by the legislature .
Below the  नेशनल स्तर an ombudsman may be नियुक्त by a राज्य , लोकल or नगरपालिका सरकारी , और unofficial ombudsmen may be नियुक्त by , or भी कार्य लिये , a निगम ऐसे as a यूटिलिटी प्रदायक or a समाचारपत्र , लिये an ngo , or लिये a पेशेवर नियामक देह .
Whether appointed by the legislature , the executive , or an organization ( or , less frequently  , elected by the constituency  that he or she serves ) , the typical duties of an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them , usually through recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation .
Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to identify systemic issues leading   to poor service or breaches of people 's rights .
At the national level , most ombudsmen have a wide  mandate to  deal with the entire public sector , and sometimes also elements of the private sector ( for example , contracted service providers ) .
In some cases , there is a more restricted   mandate , for example with particular sectors of society .
More  हाल  developments have included the creation of specialised Children 's Ombudsman and Information Commissioner agencies .
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about national government is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary Commissioner '' ( e.g . the United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration , and  the पश्चिमी  Australian state Ombudsman ) .
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with alleged maladministration to promoting and protecting  इंसान अधिकारों , the ombudsman  is recognised as the national human rights institution .
The post of ombudsman had by   the end of the 20th century been instituted by most governments and by some intergovernmental organizations such as the European Union .
Making a  शिकायत  to an ombudsman is usually free of charge .
Sign at Georgetown  विश्वविद्यालयों  Washington DC
Sign  in  Banjul , The Gambia
Autumn in New England , watercolor   , Maurice Prendergast .
ca  . 1910–1913
Fall foliage in the town   of Stowe , Vermont
New England is a region in the northeastern  corner of the United  States consisting of the six states of Maine , New Hampshire , Vermont , Massachusetts , Rhode Island , and Connecticut .
New England is bordered by New York state  to the  southwest , Quebec to the northwest , and New Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east .
In one of the earliest  अंग्रेज़ी  settlements in North America , Pilgrims from England first settled in New England in 1620 , to form Plymouth Colony .
Ten years later , the Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in Boston , thus forming Massachusetts Bay  उपनिवेश  .
Over the next 130 years , New England fought in four French and Indian Wars , until the British defeated the French and  उनके देशी  allies in North America .
In the late  18th सदी  , the New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the British Parliament 's efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists .
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Great Britain responded with a series of  दंडात्मक कानून stripping  Massachusetts of self-government , which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists .
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775 , the expulsion of the British authorities from New England in spring 1776 , and the  घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता  in July 1776 .
Some of the first movements of American literature , philosophy , and education originated in  नई इंग्लैण्ड  .
The region played a  prominent  role in the movement to abolish slavery , and was the first region of the United States to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution .
Today , New England is a major world center of  शिक्षा  , high technology , insurance , and medicine .
Boston is its cultural , financial , educational , medical and  परिवहन  center .
Each state is principally subdivided into small incorporated municipalities known as New England towns , which are often governed  by town  meeting .
The only  unincorporated  territory in New England exists in the sparse , northern regions of Vermont , New Hampshire , and Maine .
Since 1970 , voters have more often supported liberal candidates at the state and federal level  than  those of any other region in the United States .
New England is the only one of the United States Census Bureau 's nine regional divisions whose name does not derive from its geography , and it is the only multi-state region  साथ साफ ,  consistent boundaries .
It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity set apart from the rest of the country , although the terms of this identity are often contested , combining Puritanism with liberalism  ,  agrarian life with industry , and isolation with immigration .
आपात  !
is an American television  श्रेणी  that combines the medical drama and action-adventure genres .
It was produced by Mark VII Limited and  वितरित by सार्वभौमिक  Studios .
It debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15 , 1972 , on NBC , replacing the two   short-lived series The Partners and The Good Life , and ran until September 3 , 1977 , with six additional two-hour television films during the following two years .
आपात  !
was created and produced by Jack Webb and Robert A. Cinader , both of  जिसको यहूद  also responsible for the police dramas Adam-12 and Dragnet .
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 U.S. states in the eastern part of the contiguous United States , parts of Canada and  तीन देशों  in South America .
Places that use Eastern Standard  समय  ( EST ) when observing standard time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ) , when  observing  daylight saving time ( spring/summer ) is 4 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
In the  उत्तरी भाग of the  time zone , during the second Sunday in March , at 2:00 a.m. EST , clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. EDT leaving a one hour `` gap . ''
During the first Sunday in  नवम्बर , at 2:00  a.m. EDT , clocks are moved back to 1:00 a.m. EST , thus `` duplicating '' one hour .
Southern parts of the zone ( Panama and the Caribbean ) do not observe  daylight  saving .
मानक  form of the periodic table .
The colors  represent अलग  categories of elements explained below .
The periodic table is a tabular   display of the chemical elements , organized on the basis of their atomic numbers , electron configurations , and recurring chemical properties .
Elements are presented in order of  increasing  atomic number ( number of protons ) .
the मानक रूप of तालिका comprises an 18 × 7 ग्रिड or प्रमुख देह of तत्व , positioned ऊपर a छोटी दोगुना पंक्ति of तत्व  .
The table can also  be  deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left , the p-block to the right , the d-block in the middle , and the f-block below that .
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s- , d- , and p-blocks are called  समूह , साथ कुछ of ये  having names such as the halogens or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements and predict the  गुण of नई  , yet to be discovered or synthesized , elements .
As a result  , a periodic  table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
हालांकि  precursors exist , Dmitri Mendeleev is generally credited with the publication , in 1869 , of the first widely recognized periodic table .
He developed his table to  illustrate  periodic trends in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill  गैप in इस तालिका  .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when  the  elements in question were subsequently discovered .
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis  of  further new elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior .
All elements from atomic numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 (  ununoctium )  have been discovered or synthesized .
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally ,  हालांकि कुछ हैं मिला तभी  in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories .
The elements   after 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories .
Production of elements  परे ununoctium is होने धड़ा , साथ the सवाल of कैसा the आवधिक तालिका may need to be परिवर्धित to accommodate कोई ऐसे परिवर्धन होने a पदार्थ of जारी बहस .
Numerous  सिंथेटिक  radionuclides of naturally occurring elements have also been produced in laboratories .
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game originally created by Swedish programmer Markus  `` पायदान ''  Persson and later developed and published by Mojang .
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17 , 2009 , as a developmental alpha version and , after gradual updates , was published   as a full release version on November 18 , 2011 .
a  version for Android was released a month earlier on October 7 , and an iOS version was released on November 17 , 2011 .
On May 9 , 2012 , the game was released on Xbox 360 as  an एक्सबॉक्स सजीव आर्केड खेल  , co-developed by 4J Studios .
All versions of Minecraft receive periodic  अद्यतन  .
The creative and building aspects of  minecraft allow  players to build constructions out of textured cubes in a 3D procedurally generated world .
Other  क्रियाएँ  in the game include exploration , gathering resources , crafting and combat .
Gameplay in its commercial release has two principal modes : survival , which requires players to acquire resources and maintain their health and hunger ; and creative , where players  have an  unlimited supply of resources , the ability to fly , and no health or hunger .
A  तीसरा gameplay विधि नामित हार्डकोर is the वही as अस्तित्व ,  differing only in difficulty ; it is set to hardest setting and respawning is disabled , forcing players to delete their worlds upon death .
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers Conference : it was awarded the Innovation  पुरस्कार , बेहतरीन downloadable  Game Award , and the Best Debut Game Award from the Game Developers Choice Awards ; and the Audience Award , as well as the Seumas McNally Grand Prize , from the Independent Games Festival in 2011 .
In  2012 ,  Minecraft was awarded a Golden Joystick Award in the category Best Downloadable Game .
As of April 8 , 2013 , the game has sold over 10 million  नक़ल  on PC and as of January 22 , 2013 , over 20 million copies across all platforms .
The Dark Knight  is a  2008 British-American superhero film directed , produced , and co-written by Christopher Nolan .
Based on the DC Comics character Batman ,  the फिल्मी is the दूसरी भाग of  Nolan 's Batman film series and a sequel to 2005 's Batman Begins .
Christian Bale reprises the lead role of  ब्रूस wayne/batman  , with a returning cast of Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth , Gary Oldman as James Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox .
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ) , Gotham 's newly elected District Attorney and the consort of Bruce Wayne 's childhood friend Rachel Dawes ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) , who joins Batman and the police in combating the new rising threat of a criminal mastermind calling  खुद `` the जोकर `` ( झाड़  Ledger ) .
नोलन 's प्रेरणा लिये the फिल्मी थी the जोकर 's कॉमिक किताब डेब्यू in 1940 , the 1988 ग्राफिक अनोखा , और the 1996 श्रेणी , जिससे  retold Two-Face 's origin .
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to Batman in Batman No . 1  ( 1940  ) , in a story written by Bill Finger .
The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago , as well as in several other locations in the United States  , the संयुक्त  Kingdom , and Hong Kong .
Nolan used an IMAX camera to  film  some sequences , including the Joker 's first appearance in the film .
On January 22 , 2008 , some months after he had completed filming on The Dark Knight and six months before the film 's release , Heath Ledger died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs ,  अग्रणी to तीव्र ध्यान इससे the दबायें और movie-going पब्लिक  .
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The Dark Knight , developing promotional websites and  trailers  highlighting screen shots of Ledger as the Joker , but after Ledger 's death , the studio refocused its promotional campaign .
The Dark Knight was released on July 16 , 2008 in Australia , on July 18 ,  2008 in उत्तर अमेरिका , और on जुलाई 24 ,  2008 in the United Kingdom .
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the best superhero films ever  made , the film  received highly positive reviews and set numerous records during its theatrical run .
With over $ 1 billion in  आय विश्वव्यापी  , it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of all time , unadjusted for inflation .
The film received eight Academy Award nominations ;  it won  the award for Best Sound Editing and Ledger was posthumously awarded Best Supporting Actor .
The Dark Knight Rises , the final  भाग of the  trilogy , was released on July 20 , 2012 .
The timeline of radio lists  भीतर the इतिहास  of radio , the technology and events that produced instruments that use radio waves and activities that people undertook .
बाद , the इतिहास is वर्चस्व by प्रोग्रामिंग और सामग्री , जिससे is करीब to सामान्य इतिहास .
The Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue performing  arts  centre in New South Wales , Australia .
It was conceived and largely built by Danish   architect Jørn Utzon , opening in 1973 after a long gestation that began with his competition-winning design in 1957 .
Joseph Cahill 's New South Wales Government gave the  go-ahead  for work to begin in 1958 .
The government 's bold decision to select Utzon 's design is  प्रायः निष्प्रभ  by the scandal that followed .
It is on Bennelong Point in Sydney Harbour , close to the  सिडनी harbour  Bridge .
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central business district ( the CBD )  , surrounded  on three sides by the harbour ( Sydney Cove and Farm Cove ) and inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens .
Contrary to its name  , it घरों  multiple performance venues .
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the world , hosting  over  1,500 performances each year attended by some 1.2 million people .
It provides a venue for many performing-arts companies , including the four key resident companies Opera Australia , The Australian Ballet , the Sydney Theatre Company and the Sydney Symphony  ऑर्केस्ट्रा , और presents a चौड़ी दायरा of प्रोडक्शन्स on  its own account .
It is also one  of the सबसे लोकप्रिय आगंतुक आकर्षण in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , साथ अधिक than सात लाख लोगों visiting प्रत्येक साल , 300,000 of जिसको लो a हिदायत दौरे .
It is administered   by the Sydney Opera House Trust , under the New South Wales Ministry of the Arts .
On 28 June  2007  , it was made a UNESCO World Heritage Site .
it is एक of the 20th सदी 's सबसे distinctive इमारतें और एक of the सबसे प्रसिद्ध performing  arts centres in the world .
A graph of body mass index as a  फलन of देह द्रव्यमान  and body height is shown above .
The dashed lines  represent  subdivisions within a major class .
लिये उदाहरण the `` underweight '' वर्गीकरण is further विभाजित into `` कठोर '' , `` मॉडरेट '' ,  and `` mild '' subclasses .
The body mass index ( BMI ) , or Quetelet index , is a  माप लिये इंसान देह  shape based on an individual 's weight and height .
It was devised between 1830 and 1850 by the Belgian  बहुश्रुत adolphe  Quetelet during the course of developing `` social physics '' .
Body mass index is defined as the individual 's body mass divided by the square of their height   .
The formulae  universally प्रयुक्त in आयुर्विज्ञान  produce a unit of measure of kg/m2 .
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart , which displays BMI as a  फलन of वज़न ( आड़ा अक्ष  ) and height ( vertical axis ) using contour lines for different values of BMI or colors for different BMI categories .
† The factor for  uk/us  units is more precisely 703.06957964 , but that level of precision is not meaningful for this calculation .
To work from stone and pounds first multiply the  stone by 14 then add the  pounds to give the whole mass in pounds ; to work from feet and inches first multiply the feet by 12 then add the inches to give the whole height in inches .
Thomas Paine ( January 29 , 1737 ( NS February 9 , 1737 ) – June 8  , 1809 ) was an  English-American political activist , author , political theorist and revolutionary .
As the author of two highly influential pamphlets at  the प्रारंभ  of the American Revolution , he inspired the Patriots in 1776 to declare independence from Britain .
His ideas reflected Enlightenment era  बयानबाजी of transnational  human rights .
He has been called `` a corsetmaker by  व्यापार , a पत्रकार by  profession , and a propagandist by inclination . ''
Born in Thetford , England , in the county of Norfolk , Paine emigrated to the British American colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin and he  arrived in समय to  participate in the American Revolution .
His principal contributions were the powerful , widely read pamphlet Common Sense ( 1776 ) , the all-time best-selling American book that advocated colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain , and The  अमरीकी संकट ( 1776–83  ) , a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series .
Common Sense was so influential that  John  Adams said , `` Without the pen of the author of Common Sense , the sword of Washington would have been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France for most of the 1790s ,  बनने deeply शामिल  in the French Revolution .
He wrote the Rights of Man ( 1791 ) , in part  a defence  of the French Revolution against its critics .
His attacks on British writer Edmund Burke led to  a विचारण  and conviction in absentia in 1792 for the crime of seditious libel .
In  1792 ,  despite not being able to speak French , he was elected to the French National Convention .
The  girondists  regarded him as an ally .
Consequently , the Montagnards , especially Robespierre , regarded him as  an दुश्मन  .
In  दिसम्बर  1793 , he was arrested and imprisoned in Paris , then released in 1794 .
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ) , his book that advocates deism , promotes reason and freethinking , and argues against  institutionalized धर्म  in general and Christian doctrine in particular .
He also wrote the pamphlet Agrarian Justice ( 1795 ) , discussing the origins  of  property , and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income .
In 1802 , he returned  to  America where he died on June 8 , 1809 .
Only six people attended his funeral as he had been ostracized  लिये  his ridicule of Christianity .
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data ( or more specifically , information about adverse drug reactions and adverse effects of other treatments ) for health interventions ( e.g. , drugs , diagnostics , devices , therapy   protocols ) .
They are conducted only after satisfactory information has been gathered on the quality of the non clinical safety , and health authority/ethics   committee approval is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought .
Previously , many emerging countries did not require  लोकल ट्रायल  for product approvals .
Now , though emerging  देशों स्टिल accept आंकड़ा इससे u.s./europe  , they also require some local trials .
Depending on the type  of product and the stage of its  development , investigators initially enroll volunteers and/or patients into small pilot studies , and subsequently conduct larger scale studies in patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest .
As positive  सुरक्षा और efficacy  data are gathered , the number of patients is typically increased .
नैदानिक  trials can vary in size , and can involve a single research entity in one country or many such entities in multiple countries .
A full series of trials may incur sizable costs , and the burden of paying for all the necessary people and services is usually borne by the sponsor , which may be a governmental organization or a pharmaceutical  ,  biotechnology or medical device company .
When the diversity of required  support roles  exceeds the resources of the sponsor , a clinical trial is managed by an outsourced partner , such as a contract research organization or a clinical trials unit in the academic sector .
The Green Bay Packers are an American  फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित  in Green Bay , Wisconsin .
वे हैं सदस्यों  of the North Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL , having been organized and playing  in  1919 .
The Packers are the only non-profit , community-owned major league professional sports team in the United   States .
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams ''  कि यहूद  once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and  जार्ज  Whitney Calhoun , the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a semi-professional football team against clubs from around  विस्कॉन्सिन और the  Midwest .
They joined the  अमरीकी पेशेवर  Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921 , the forerunner to what is known today as the National Football League ( NFL ) .
हालांकि ग्रीन खाड़ी is the पिछला एनएफएल `` छोटी कस्बा '' टोली , इसके लोकल प्रशंसक आधार और मीडिया extends into आसपास मिल्वौकी ; the टोली भी निभाई चयनित घर खेल वहीँ between 1933 और 1994  .
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other  टोली in the  NFL ) , including nine NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ) .
The Packers have long-standing , bitter rivalries with their NFC  उत्तर ( formerly the  NFC Central ) opponents , the Chicago Bears , Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions .
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one of the  oldest rivalries in एनएफएल  history , dating back to 1921 .
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl alcohol ) , the same type of  दारू  found in alcoholic beverages .
It is most often used as a motor fuel , mainly as a biofuel  योगात्मक  for gasoline .
World ethanol production for transport fuel tripled  between 2000 और 2007 इससे 17  billion to more than 52 billion liters .
From 2007 to 2008 , the share of ethanol in global   gasoline type fuel use increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 % .
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ) , with the United States as the top producer with 13.9 bg ( 52.6 billion liters ) , accounting for 62.2 %  of वैश्विक उत्पादन , followed by ब्राज़ील साथ 5.6 bg (  21.1 billion liters ) .
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon equivalency `` ( GGE )  मान  of , which means 1.5 gallons of ethanol produce the energy of one gallon of gasoline .
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in the United States , and together both countries were responsible for 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel  उत्पादन  in 2011 .
Most cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on blends of up to 10 % ethanol , and  इथेनॉल represented  10 % of the U.S. gasoline fuel supply derived from domestic sources in 2011 .
Since 1976 the Brazilian government has made it mandatory to blend ethanol with gasoline , and since 2007 the legal blend is around 25 % ethanol and 75 % gasoline ( E25   ) .
By December 2011  ब्राज़ील था a बेड़े of 14.8  million flex-fuel automobiles and light trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel motorcycles that regularly use neat ethanol fuel ( known as E100 ) .
Bioethanol is a form of renewable energy that  can be उत्पादित इससे  agricultural feedstocks .
It can be made from very common crops such as  शुगर  cane , potato , manioc and corn .
There has been considerable debate about how useful bioethanol   will be in replacing gasoline .
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased food prices due to the large amount of arable land  required for crops ,  as well as the energy and pollution balance of the whole cycle of ethanol production , especially from corn .
Recent  developments  with cellulosic ethanol production and commercialization may allay some of these concerns .
Cellulosic ethanol offers promise because cellulose fibers , a major and universal component  in  plant cells walls , can be used to produce ethanol .
According to the International Energy Agency , cellulosic ethanol could allow ethanol fuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously  विचार  .
Saab 9-3 SportCombi  biopower  .
The second  e85  flexifuel model introduced by Saab in the Swedish market .
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987 , before steps  यहूद removed in  1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination ( image  लिया  in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne , and his wife , Sophie , Duchess of Hohenberg , were shot dead in Sarajevo , by  gavrilo princip , एक of a समूह of छह बोस्नियाई  Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the  हत्या  was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia .
The assassins ' motives were consistent with the movement that  बाद  became known as Young Bosnia .
Serbian military officers stood behind   the attack .
At the top of   these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević , his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić , and Masterspy Rade Malobabić .
प्रमुख tankosić हथियारबंद the हत्यारे साथ बम और pistols और प्रशिक्षित उन्हें .
The assassins were given access to the same clandestine tunnel of safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into  austria-hungary  .
The assassins , the key members of the clandestine tunnel , and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested ,   tried , convicted and punished .
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were tried in  साराजेवो  in October 1914 .
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia executed three of the   top military conspirators .
much of कया is ज्ञात परिचय the assassinations आता इससे ये दो ट्रायल और सम्बन्धित रिकॉर्ड .
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World War I  one month  later .
Renée Kathleen Zellweger ( born April  25 , 1969 ) is  an American actress and producer .
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ) , and subsequently received two nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actress for her roles as Bridget Jones in the comedy Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001  )  , and as Roxie Hart in the musical Chicago ( 2002 ) .
She won the Academy  Award for  Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Cold Mountain ( 2003 ) .
She has won an Academy Award  , three Golden Globe  Awards , three Screen Actors Guild Awards , and a BAFTA Award ; was named Hasty Pudding 's Woman of the Year in 2009 ; and established herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007 .
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest bones in the human body , the malleus , the incus and  the stapes  .
They are contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the  एयर to the fluid-filled  labyrinth ( cochlea ) .
The absence of the auditory ossicles  होता  constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss .
The term `` ossicles '' literally means `` tiny bones '' and commonly refers to   the auditory ossicles , though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body .
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke  kaine ) is a biblical interpretation  originally derived from a phrase in the Book of Jeremiah , in the Hebrew Scriptures .
It  is प्रायः विचार of as an  eschatological Messianic Age or world to come and is related to the biblical concept of the Kingdom of God .
Generally ,  ईसाइयों मानना  that the New Covenant was instituted at the Last Supper as part of the Eucharist , which in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment .
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New Covenant , as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing relationship between Christian believers and God that will be in full fruition after the Second Coming of Christ ; that is , it will not only be in  पूरा फलीभूत in believing  hearts , but in the future external world as well .
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the New Covenant is seen in most modern English translations of the New Testament with the saying :  `` इस  cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood '' .
Christians believe that Jesus is the mediator of the New Covenant , and that the Blood of Christ shed at his crucifixion is the  जरूरी रक्त  of the covenant .
As with all covenants between God and man described in the Bible , the New  वचन  is considered `` a bond in blood sovereignly administered by God . ''
It has been theorized that the New Covenant is the Law of Christ as spoken  दौरान  his Sermon on the Mount .
The following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the President of the United States documents the most  prominent  cases of each presidency .
As  granted by the Constitution (  Article II , Section 2 , Clause 1 ) , Presidents have the power to grant clemency in one or more of the following ways : the ability to grant a full pardon , to commute a sentence , or to rescind a fine .
U.S. Presidents have no power   to grant clemency for crimes prosecuted under state law .
As to the  अंतर  between a pardon and a commutation:
A pardon is an executive order  vacating  a conviction .
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone   currently serving a sentence for a crime pursuant to a conviction , without vacating the conviction itself .
Approximately 20,000 pardons and clemencies were issued by U.S. presidents in the 20th   century alone .
The records of  अधिनियमों of  clemency were public until 1934 .
In 1981 the Office of the Pardon Attorney was created and records from President H. W. Bush forward are now  सूचीबद्ध  .
इस सूची  includes pardons and commutations .
tampa ( ) is a नगर in the u.S. राज्य of फ्लोरिडा .
It serves as the county  सीट लिये hillsborough  County and is located on the west coast of Florida , on Tampa Bay near the Gulf of Mexico .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  of Tampa in 2011 was 346,037 .
The current location of Tampa was once inhabited by indigenous peoples of the Safety Harbor culture , most  notably the tocobaga और the pohoy  , who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay .
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th century , but there were no permanent American or European settlements within  आज 's नगर  limits until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819 .
In 1824 , the United States Army established a frontier outpost called Fort Brooke at the mouth of the Hillsborough River , near  the site of today 's  Tampa Convention Center .
the पहला civilian निवासियों यहूद pioneers जो settled निकट the फोर्ट लिये सुरक्षा इससे the आसपास seminole जनसांख्यिकी  .
The town grew  धीरे  until the 1880s , when railroad links , the discovery of phosphate , and the arrival of the cigar industry jump-started Tampa 's development and helped it to grow into an important city by the early 1900s .
Today , Tampa is a part of the metropolitan area most commonly  referred to  as the Tampa Bay Area .
For U.S. Census purposes , Tampa is part of  the  Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater , Florida Metropolitan Statistical Area .
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents , making it the second largest metropolitan statistical area ( MSA ) in the state , and the  चौथी largest in the  Southeastern United States , behind Miami , Washington , D.C. , and Atlanta .
The  वृहद tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल रै बस over 4 लाख निवासियों और generally शामिल the tampa और sarasota मैट्रो क्षेत्रों .
The Tampa Bay  साझेदारी  and U.S. Census data showed an average annual growth of 2.47 percent , or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year .
Between 2000 and 2006 , the Greater Tampa Bay Market experienced a combined growth rate of 14.8 percent , growing from 3.4 million to 3.9 million  and hitting  the 4 million people mark on April 1 , 2007 .
a 2012 अनुमान shows the tampa खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल जनसांख्यिकी to have 4,310,524 लोगों और a 2017 प्रक्षेप of 4,536,854 लोगों  .
Tampa has a number of sports teams , such as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the National Football  लीग , the  Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League , and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League .
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the North American Soccer League play their home  खेल in neighboring  St. Petersburg , Florida .
In 2008 , Tampa was ranked as the 5th best  बाहरी नगर  by Forbes .
A  2004 सर्वेक्षण by the nyu समाचारपत्र वॉशिंगटन वर्गाकार न्यूज क्रमित tampa as a शीर्ष नगर लिये `` twenty-somethings . ''
tampa is  now ranked as a `` Gamma '' world city by Loughborough University .
According to Loughborough , Tampa ranks alongside other world cities  ऐसे as फीनिक्स  , Santo Domingo , and Osaka .
In recent years Tampa has seen a notable upsurge in high-market demand from consumers , signaling more wealth  concentrated  in the area .
Tampa  hosted the 2012  Republican National Convention .
the शेवरलेट cavalier थी a कॉम्पैक्ट ऑटोमोबाइल उत्पादित इससे 1982 to 2005 by सामान्य  Motors .
Built on the company 's J platform , the Cavalier  उत्पादित  the highest sales in 1984 .
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and referred to as AT & T ( formerly Cingular Wireless LLC ) , is a wholly owned subsidiary  of AT  & T Inc. that provides wireless services to 107 million subscribers in the United States , including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands .
AT & T Mobility is the second largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States and Puerto Rico , behind Verizon Wireless , which serves 115.78 million customers as of  the चौथी  quarter of 2012 .
AT & T Mobility is headquartered in the Lenox Park area of DeKalb Co.   Georgia , just outside Atlanta .
Originally Cingular Wireless LLC from 2000 to 2007 , a joint venture between SBC Communications and BellSouth , the company acquired  the  old AT & T Wireless in 2004 ; SBC later acquired the original AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T '' .
Cingular became wholly owned by AT & T in December 2006 as a  परिणाम  of AT & T 's acquisition of BellSouth .
In January 2007 , Cingular confirmed it would re-brand itself under the AT & T name   .
Although the legal corporate name change occurred immediately , for both regulatory and brand-awareness reasons both brands were  प्रयुक्त in  the company 's signage and advertising during a transition period .
The transition concluded in late June , just  prior to the  rollout of the Apple iPhone .
On March 20 , 2011 , AT & T Mobility announced its intention to acquire T-Mobile USA from Deutsche  telekom लिये $ 39  billion .
If it had received government and regulatory approval ,  AT & T  would have had more than 130 million subscribers .
However , the U.S. Department of Justice , the Federal Communications Commission , and AT & T  गतिशीलता 's प्रतिस्पर्धी ( ऐसे as स्प्रिंट nextel ) opposed  the move on the grounds that it would reduce competition in the cellular communications market .
In December  2011 , in the फेस  of both governmental and widespread consumer opposition , AT & T withdrew their offer to complete the merger .
Martin Luther King , Jr. ( January 15 , 1929 – April 4 , 1968 ) was an American clergyman , activist , and leader in the African-American Civil  अधिकारों  Movement .
He is best known for his role in the advancement  of सिविल  rights using nonviolent civil disobedience .
King has become a national icon in the  इतिहास of  American progressivism .
A Baptist minister , King  became  a civil rights activist early in his career .
He led the 1955 Montgomery  बस बहिष्कार और  helped found the Southern Christian Leadership Conference ( SCLC ) in 1957 , serving as its first president .
With the SCLC , King led an unsuccessful struggle against segregation in Albany , Georgia , in 1962 , and   organized nonviolent protests in Birmingham , Alabama , that attracted national attention following television news coverage of the brutal police response .
King also helped to organize the 1963  कूच on वॉशिंगटन  , where he delivered his `` I Have a Dream `` speech .
There , he established his reputation as one of the greatest  orators  in American history .
He also established his reputation as a radical , and became an object of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 's COINTELPRO for the  बाकी of उसके जीवन  .
FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties , recorded his extramarital liaisons and reported on them to government officials , and on one occasion ,  mailed किंग a threatening बेनाम  letter that he interpreted as an attempt to make him commit suicide .
on अक्तूबर 14 , 1964 , किंग प्राप्त the नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार लिये combating जातिगत असमानता through nonviolence  .
In 1965 , he and the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to Montgomery marches  and the  following year , he took the movement north to Chicago .
In the final years of his life  , किंग  expanded his focus to include poverty and the Vietnam War , alienating many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam '' .
King was planning a national occupation of Washington  ,  D.C. , called the Poor People 's Campaign .
King was assassinated on April 4  , 1968  , in Memphis , Tennessee .
His death  थी  followed by riots in many U.S. cities .
Allegations that James Earl Ray , the man convicted of killing King , had been  framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट  with government agents persisted for decades after the shooting , and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King .
King was awarded the  अध्यक्षीय  Medal of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously .
Martin Luther King , Jr. Day was established as a U.S. federal holiday in  1986 .
Hundreds of streets in the U.S. have been renamed in his  सम्मान  .
a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा on the नेशनल मॉल थी खोली to the पब्लिक in 2011 .
The tiger ( Panthera  tigris  ) is the largest cat species , reaching a total body length of up to and weighing up to .
It is the third largest land carnivore ( behind only  the ध्रुवीय भालू और  the brown bear ) .
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of dark vertical stripes on reddish-orange  fur with a  lighter underside .
It has exceptionally stout teeth , and the canines are the longest among living felids with a crown height  of as much as or  even .
In zoos , tigers have lived for 20 to 26 years , which also seems to be their longevity  in the जंगली  .
They are territorial and generally solitary but social animals , often requiring large contiguous areas of  आवास कि support उनके  prey requirements .
इस , coupled साथ the फैक्ट कि वे हैं स्वदेशी to कुछ of the अधिक densely आबादी स्थान on धरती , रै caused significant विरोध  with humans .
Tigers  एकबार ranged widely  across Asia , from Turkey in the west to the eastern coast of Russia .
over the पास्ट 100 सालो , वे have खोया 93 % of उनके ऐतिहासिक दायरा , और have महरूम extirpated इससे दक्षिणपश्चिम और सेंट्रल एशिया , इससे the आइलैंड्स of जावा और bali , और इससे विशाल क्षेत्रों of southeast और पूर्वी एशिया .
Today , they  दायरा  from the Siberian taiga to open grasslands and tropical mangrove swamps .
The remaining  छह  tiger subspecies have been classified as endangered by IUCN .
The global  जनसांख्यिकी in the जंगली is अनुमानित to क्रमांक between 3,062 और 3,948 individuals , bas इससे around 100,000 at the प्रारंभ of the 20th सदी , साथ सबसे बाकी populations occurring in छोटी pockets पृथक इससे प्रत्येक अन्य .
प्रमुख  reasons for population decline include habitat destruction , habitat fragmentation and poaching .
The extent of area occupied by  टाइगर्स is अनुमानित at कम than  , a 41 % decline from the area estimated in the mid-1990s .
Tigers are among the most recognisable and popular of the world 's charismatic  महाप्राणी  .
They have  प्रदर्शित  prominently in ancient mythology and folklore , and continue to be depicted in modern films and literature .
Tigers appear on many flags , coats of  बाहें  , and as mascots for sporting teams .
The Bengal tiger is the national animal of both India  और बांग्लादेश  .
The simplified  आतंरिक  structure of a chloroplast
Overview of  the  Calvin cycle and carbon fixation
The  light-independent  reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the  fluid-filled  area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the light-dependent reactions  and  perform further chemical processes on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions ,  collectively पुकारा  the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation , reduction reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , this  process  occurs only when light is available .
Plants do  नहीं  carry out the Calvin cycle by night .
They , instead ,  रिलीज  sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent  of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3  carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
A linen  रूमाल  with pulled thread embroidery around the edges
लिनेन  cloth recovered from Qumran Cave 1 near the Dead Sea .
Linen ( ) is a textile made from the fibers of the flax  संयंत्र , linum  usitatissimum .
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture , but when it is made into garments , it is valued  लिये  its exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather .
The word `` linen '' is of West Germanic origin and  cognates साथ the लैटिन  name for the flax plant linum , and the earlier Greek λινόν ( linon ) .
This word history has given rise to a number of other terms in English , the most notable of which is the English word line , derived from the use  of a लिनेन ( flax ) लड़ी  to determine a straight line .
Textiles in a linen weave texture , even when made of cotton , hemp and other  non-flax  fibers are also loosely referred to as `` linen '' .
Such fabrics generally have their own  विशिष्ट names  other than linen ; for example , fine cotton yarn in a linen-style weave is called Madapolam .
the सामूहिक पद `` linens `` is स्टिल प्रायः प्रयुक्त generically to describe a क्लास of woven और भी knitted bed , नहाना , तालिका और रसोईघर वस्त्र .
The name  linens is  retained because traditionally , linen was used for many of these items .
In the past , the word `` linens '' was also used to mean lightweight undergarments such as shirts , chemises , waistshirts , lingerie ( a word also  cognate साथ लिनेन ) , और detachable कमीज़ छल्लों और cuffs  , which were historically made almost exclusively out of linen .
The inside cloth layer of fine composite clothing garments ( as for example  jackets ) थी traditionally बना  of linen , and this is the origin of the word lining .
Linen textiles appear  to be कुछ  of the oldest in the world : their history goes back many thousands of years .
fragments of स्ट्रॉ , बीज , मछली , yarns , और विभिन्न प्रकार of fabrics जिससे तिथि वापस to परिचय 8000 bc have महरूम मिला in स्विस झील dwellings  .
Dyed flax fibers found in a prehistoric cave in Georgia suggest the use of woven linen fabrics from wild flax may date back even earlier to  36,000  BP .
लिनेन  was sometimes used as currency in ancient Egypt .
Egyptian mummies were wrapped in linen because it was seen as a symbol of light and purity , and as a  प्रदर्शक  of wealth .
Some of these fabrics  , woven from  hand spun yarns , were very fine for their day , but are coarse compared to modern linen .
Today , linen is usually an expensive textile , and is produced in relatively small   quantities .
It has a long `` staple '' ( individual  fiber  length ) relative to cotton and other natural fibers .
Many products are made of linen : aprons , bags , towels ( swimmers , bath , beach , body and wash towels ) , napkins , bed linens , linen tablecloths , runners , chair covers ,  and  men 's & women 's wear .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the members of Fédération  internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ) , the खेल  's global governing body .
The championship  रै महरूम awarded प्रत्येक  four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The current  champions  are Spain , who won the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams  स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues  within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
a योग्यता phase , जिससे फिलहाल takes प्लेस over the preceding तीन सालो , is प्रयुक्त to determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये the टूर्नामेंट साथ साथ the मेजबान  nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by eight  अलग नेशनल  teams .
ब्राज़ील have जीती पाँच टाइम्स , और वे हैं the तभी टोली to have निभाई in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four titles ; Germany , with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and  इंग्लैण्ड , फ़्रांस  , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most  widely  viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014 , Russia in 2018 ,  और  Qatar in 2022 .
The is an expansion device for the  वी  Remote video game controller for the Wii that allows it to more accurately capture complex motion .
according to निन्टेंडो  , the sensor in the device supplements the accelerometer and Sensor Bar capabilities of the Wii Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the screen in real time .
The Wii 's successor console , the Wii U , supports the Wii MotionPlus and its peripherals in games where use of its  touchscreen-built-in  primary controller is not necessary .
Majulah Singapura ( Onward Singapore ) is the national   anthem of Singapore .
रचित  by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song for official functions of the City Council of Singapore , the song was selected in 1959 as the island 's anthem when it attained self-government .
Upon full  स्वतंत्रता  in 1965 , Majulah Singapura was formally adopted as Singapore 's national anthem .
By law  the anthem may  only be sung with its original Malay lyrics , although there exist authorized translations of the lyrics of the anthem in Singapore 's three other official languages : English , Mandarin and Tamil .
Originally composed in the key of G major , in 2001 the national anthem was officially relaunched in the lower key of F major as this was said to allow for a ``  grander और अधिक प्रेरणादायी  arrangement '' .
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools and armed forces camps at ceremonies held at the beginning and/or the end of each day , during which the national   flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken .
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on occasions of national celebration or national significance such as at the National Day Parade , at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions and government departments , and  at sporting  events at which Singapore teams are participating .
An   expedition 's shipwrights building a brigantine , 1541 .
shipbuilding  is the construction of ships and floating vessels .
It  सामान्यतः  takes place in a specialized facility known as a shipyard .
Shipbuilders , also called shipwrights , follow  a  specialized occupation that traces its roots to before recorded history .
Shipbuilding and ship repairs , both commercial and  सैन्य , हैं  referred to as `` naval engineering '' .
The construction of boats   is a similar activity called boat building .
The dismantling of ships is   called ship breaking .
wakonda is  a town in Clay County , South Dakota , United States .
The   population was 321 at the 2010 census .
The  following is  a list of the most populous incorporated places of the United States of America .
As defined by the United States Census Bureau , an `` incorporated  place `` includes a variety  of designations , including city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also included in the Census Bureau 's listing  of  incorporated places .
संचित  city-counties represent a distinct type of government that includes the entire population of a county , or county equivalent .
कुछ संचित city-counties , however , शामिल अनेक incorporated स्थान .
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties that are not a part of another incorporated   place .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities  within  their defined limits , which does not include other municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S.  महानगर  area populations .
alt=Larger  flashcart ,  shown with small card and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress images , homebrew video  खेल और डाउनलोड  commercial games ( since the Nintendo DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ) .
Licensed developers ,  however , can use a  blue Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator box to flash cards .
These devices are also known as `` flashcarts '' or  `` flashcards  '' .
There are two main classes of flashcarts : older devices which  fit in Slot-2  ( the Game Boy Advance Game Pak slot ) and newer devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ) .
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of scale (  inherited इससे उनके उपयोग साथ खेल  Boy Advance ) , but require a booting tool in Slot-1 in order to use the touch screen and other DS features .
Second-generation devices ( those which only use Slot-1 ) do not work with GBA homebrew , but  became  less expensive and easier to use , rivaling many Slot-2 devices in price .
First-generation devices include GBA flash cartridges ,  gbamp  CF , SuperCard , and M3 .
Second-generation  डिवाइस शामिल  R4 Revolution , CycloDS , G6 Real and DS-X .
The storage device either contains flash memory or a slot  लिये  a memory card to store homebrew .
Storage devices with a memory-card slot usually   have more storage capacity than flash-memory devices .
Although flash-memory  क्षमता is प्रायः measured in megabits  ( Mb ) , memory-card capacity is usually measured in megabytes ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ) .
storage-device ब्रांड्स differ in उनके support लिये homebrew ; ds और खेल लड़के अग्रिम roms ; खास सुविधाएँ ( ऐसे as क्षमता to खेल मीडिया फाइलें ) ; शारीरिक आकार और लागत .
Strictly speaking , a storage device is not necessary for DS with FlashMe installed  because homebrew can  be sent to the DS using WMB .
However , this is not an easily-portable method because the DS  needs to be भीतर  range of a suitable Wi-Fi card .
are American people of Japanese  विरासत  .
Japanese Americans have historically  been among the three largest  Asian American communities , but in recent decades , it has become the sixth largest group at roughly 1,304,286 , including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity .
In the 2010 census , the largest  जापानी अमरीकी  communities were found in California with 272,528 , Hawaii with 185,502 , New York with 37,780 , Washington with 35,008 , and Illinois with 17,542 .
दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै the largest japanese-american जनसांख्यिकी in उत्तर अमेरिका .
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which highlights significant achievements and  माइलस्टोन आधारित upon बिलबोर्ड  magazine 's singles charts , most notably the Billboard Hot 100 .
This list spans from  the  issue dated January 1 , 1955 to present .
The Billboard Hot 100 began with the issue dated August 4 , 1958 ,  और  is currently the standard popular music chart in the United States .
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100 , Billboard published four singles charts : `` Best Sellers in Stores '' , ``  सबसे  Played by Jockeys '' , `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 '' .
These charts , which ranged from 20 to 100 slots , were phased out at  अलग  times between 1957 and 1958 .
Though technically   not part of the Hot 100 chart history , their data is included for computational purposes , and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations .
All items listed below are from  the  Hot 100 era , unless otherwise noted ( pre-Hot 100 charts ) .
V is an American science fiction  television series  that ran for two seasons on ABC , from November 3 , 2009 to March 15 , 2011 .
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson , the new series chronicles   the arrival on Earth of a technologically advanced alien species which ostensibly comes in peace , but actually has sinister motives .
V stars Morena Baccarin , Lourdes Benedicto , Morris Chestnut , Joel Gretsch , Logan Huffman , Charles Mesure , Elizabeth Mitchell , Laura  vandervoort और  Scott Wolf , and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum , Yves Simoneau , Scott Peters , and Jace Hall .
The series was produced by The Scott Peters Company , HDFilms  and Warner  Bros. Television .
geocaching is an बाहरी recreational कार्यकलाप , in जिससे the भागीदार उपयोग a वैश्विक positioning प्रणाली ( gps ) receiver or मोबाईल यंत्र और अन्य navigational तकनीकों to छुपा और तलाश containers , पुकारा `` geocaches '' or `` caches '' , anywhere in the संसार .
a  typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook where the geocacher enters the date they found it and signs it with their established code name .
After signing into the log , the cache must be placed back exactly  where  the person found it .
Larger containers such as plastic storage containers ( Tupperware or similar ) or ammunition boxes can also contain items for trading ,  usually toys or  trinkets of little value .
Geocaching shares many aspects with  benchmarking  , trigpointing , orienteering , treasure-hunting , letterboxing , and waymarking .
Boogie Down Productions was a  हिप  hop group that was originally composed of KRS-One , D-Nice , and DJ Scott La Rock .
DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on August 27 , 1987 , months after the  रिलीज of  BDP 's debut album , Criminal Minded .
The name of the group , Boogie Down , derives from a nickname for the  दक्षिण bronx खण्ड  of The Bronx , one of the five boroughs of New York City .
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and their debut LP Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions   of life in the South Bronx of the late 1980s thus setting the stage for what would eventually become gangsta rap .
A municipal  बंध is a बंध  issued by a local government , or their agencies .
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states ,  शहरों , काउंटी , redevelopment एजेंसियों  , special-purpose districts , school districts , public utility districts , publicly owned airports and seaports , and any other governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level .
Municipal bonds may be general obligations of the issuer  or secured  by specified revenues .
In  the संयुक्त राज्य , ब्याज आय प्राप्त by धारकों of नगरपालिका bonds is प्रायः exempt इससे the संघीय आय कर और इससे the आय कर of the राज्य in जिससे वे हैं जारी , हालांकि नगरपालिका bonds जारी लिये निश्चित उद्देश्य may नहीं be कर exempt .
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to  market with  price restrictions until the deal is sold , municipal bonds are free to trade at any time once they are purchased by the investor .
Professional traders regularly trade and retrade the  वही  bonds several times a week .
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written by Steve Winwood , Spencer Davis and Muff Winwood , and originally performed by The  स्पेंसर  Davis Group .
The basic riff of the song was borrowed from the Homer Banks song `` ( Ai n't That ) A Lot of Love '' ,  लिखा  by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker .
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' was a UK # 2 in the  पतझड़  of 1966 and a US # 7 .
The song is ranked # 247 on the Rolling Stone magazine 's list of The 500 Greatest  गीतों of सब समय .
The version issued in the UK ( and probably most of  Europe ) is different  from that issued in the US on the United Artists label , being slower , and lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single .
( The US version has more often been used on reissue CDs , even those   coming from Europe . )
The single features the sound of the  हैमंड  B-3 organ .
The Internet Movie  Database ( IMDb )  is an online database of information related to films , television programs , and video games .
This includes actors ,  उत्पादन क्रू  personnel , and fictional characters featured in these three visual entertainment media .
It is one of the most popular online entertainment destinations , with over  100  million unique users each month and a solid and rapidly growing mobile presence .
आईएमडीबी थी  launched on October 17 , 1990 , and in 1998 was acquired by Amazon.com .
As  of अप्रैल 27 , 2013 , आईएमडीबी था 2,503,783 शीर्षक ( शामिल एपीसोड ) और 5,192,493 personalities in इसके डेटाबेस , as खूब as 43 लाख पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता .
The website has an  एलेक्सा  rank of 48 .
Fibre Channel Host Bus Adapter ( 64-bit  PCI-X  card )
SCSI Host Bus  एडाप्टर  ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware , a host controller , host adapter , or host bus adapter ( HBA ) connects a host  प्रणाली ( the  computer ) to other network and storage devices .
The terms are primarily used to refer to devices for connecting SCSI , Fibre  चैनल  and eSATA devices .
However ,  डिवाइस  for connecting to IDE , Ethernet , FireWire , USB and other systems may also be called host adapters .
recently , the  advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has brought about Ethernet HBAs , which are different from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines .
There are also converged HBAs  that  support both Ethernet and Fibre Channel called Converged Network Adapters ( CNAs ) .
cashmere  Scarves
Modern men 's cashmere sweaters for  बिक्री  .
Cashmere wool , usually simply known as  cashmere , is a  fiber obtained from Cashmere goats and other types of goat .
The word cashmere  गर्भाशयी इससे  an old spelling of Kashmir .
Cashmere is fine in texture ,   strong , light , and soft .
Garments made from it provide excellent  इन्सुलेशन  .
In the United States , under the U.S . Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 , as amended , ( 15 Uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ) , states that a wool or  वस्त्र उत्पाद  may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool product is the fine ( dehaired ) undercoat fibers  उत्पादित  by a cashmere goat ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the fiber of such wool product   does not exceed 19 microns ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3 percent ( by weight ) of cashmere fibers with average diameters  कि  exceed 30 microns .
The average fiber diameter may be subject to a  गुणांक  of variation around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent .
Jennifer Convertibles Inc. is the owner and licensor of sofabed and leather specialty retail stores in the United States , with stores located throughout the  पूर्वी  seaboard , in the Midwest , on the West Coast and in the Southwest .
The company was founded in 1975 and is  आधारित in woodbury  , New York .
On July 19 , 2010 , the company announced that it had  दायर  for bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses '' .
According to Furniture Today the company was number 48 among furniture retailers with US $ 114 million in sales  लिये the साल समाप्ति  August 29 , 2009 .
It subsequently   emerged from Chapter 11 under the control of its major supplier , the Haining Mengnu Group .
Egg roll is a term used for many different  foods around  the world .
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg rolls are found in mainland China , many Chinese-speaking regions of Asia , and Chinese immigrant communities around   the world .
Egg rolls  as  referred to in China .
In Guangdong and Hong Kong ,  अंडा फेंकें प्रायः refers  to biscuit roll .
इस  is a type of biscuit .
The ingredient  शामिल  egg , flour and sugar .
Egg roll also is a dish in Canton  and  Hong Kong , this is usually made with vegetable .
Within China egg rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast and are not  as  commonly consumed in the north and western parts of China .
In American Chinese  cuisine ,  an egg roll is a savory dish typically served as an appetizer .
It is usually stuffed with chicken , pork  or  shrimp , cabbage , carrots , tomatoes , bean sprouts and other vegetables , and then deep fried .
This variety of the egg roll is very common and popular   , across even regional varieties of American Chinese food , and is often included as part of a `` combination platter '' .
In Montreal , Canada ,  open-ended  eggrolls are a Jewish-Chinese fusion dish .
They can be either  कोषेर certified  or merely kosher style .
Pain and  कष्ट  is the legal term for the physical and emotional stress caused from an injury ( see also pain and suffering ) .
Some damages that might be under this category would  be  : aches , temporary and permanent limitations on activity , potential shortening of life , depression or scarring .
When filing a lawsuit as a result of an injury , it is common for someone to seek money  both in compensation  for actual money that is lost and for the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury .
In a suit , pain and suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's claim , or ,  alternatively  , it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows recovery for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress .
Apart from money damages awarded in trial , money damages are also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations , arbitration ( both of which may be court annexed or non litigated claims ) as well as in routine insurance   settlements .
Individual claimants or those represented by lawyers often   present demands to insurers to settle for money .
These demand for bodily injury compensation monies often set out damages that are  similarly  used in the court litigated pleadings .
Demands are usually written summaries of a  claimant 's चिकित्सा  care and the facts which resulted in the injury .
Sample of a Medallion signature  गारंटी  stampIn
the United States and Canada , a medallion signature guarantee is a special signature guarantee for  the ट्रांसफ़र  of securities .
It is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the signature is genuine and the financial institution  स्वीकृत देयता लिये कोई जालसाजी  .
Signature  guarantees protect शेयरधारकों  by preventing unauthorized transfers and possible investor losses .
They also limit the liability of the transfer  एजेंट  who accepts the certificates .
Different  संस्थानों have अलग  policies as to what type of identification they require to provide the guarantee and whether they charge a fee for such service ( usually nominal if any ) .
Most  संस्थानों होगा नहीं गारंटी a हस्ताक्षर of किसी जो रै नहीं already महरूम उनके ग्राहक .
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public  , in the भाव कि a `` हस्ताक्षर  guarantee '' is a certification by the institution that the signature is authentic , and an acknowledgment is a certification by a notary public attesting that the signer signed a document voluntarily .
Some banks may no longer provide this service , however , many still do as well as other financial institutions such as a Savings and Loans and Credit   Unions .
At their sole discretion ,  ये संस्थानों may स्टिल  decline to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees .
When US citizens are abroad , some financial institutions may accept United States Embassy Seals , in  place of the  Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp .
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars stacked at a junkyard on Terminal  Island , Los  Angeles County , California , March 1956
The General Motors streetcar conspiracy ( also known as the Great American streetcar scandal ) refers to allegations  और convictions in संबंध  to a program by General Motors ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities .
Between 1936 and 1950 , National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM , Firestone Tire , Standard Oil of California , Phillips Petroleum , Mack Trucks , and the Federal Engineering Corporation—bought over 100 electric surface-traction systems in 45 cities including Baltimore , Newark , Los  एंजिल्स , नई  York City , Oakland and San Diego and converted them into bus operation .
Several of the companies involved   were convicted in 1949 of conspiracy to monopolize interstate commerce but were acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the ownership of these companies .
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the United States ; notably Edwin J. Quinby , who first drew attention to the   program in 1946 , and then Bradford C. Snell , an anti-trust attorney for the United States Senate whose controversial 1974 testimony to a Senate inquiry brought the issue to national awareness .
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate destruction of streetcars was part of a larger strategy to push the  संयुक्त राज्य into ऑटोमोबाइल  dependency .
Others say that independent economic factors brought about changes in the transit system , including the Great Depression , the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 , labor unrest  , market forces , rapidly increasing traffic  congestion , urban sprawl , taxation policies that favored private vehicle ownership , and general enthusiasm for the automobile .
One writer on the subject has suggested that Snell and others  गिरी into  simplistic conspiracy theory thinking , bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly , GM waged a war on electric traction .
It was indeed an all out assault  , but by no  means the single reason for the failure of rapid transit .
Also , it is just as clear that actions and inactions by government contributed significantly to the elimination   of electric traction . ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based urban transport systems based on streetcars or trams , including Newark , Philadelphia , San Francisco ,  पिट्सबर्ग , और बोस्टन  ; others are re-introducing them .
The story has been explored several times in  छपाई  , film and other media , notably in Who Framed Roger Rabbit , Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia .
Corwin House , Salem ,  मैसाचुसेट्स  , built ca . 1660 , First Period English
American colonial architecture includes  several building  design styles associated with the colonial period of the United States , including First Period English ( late-medieval ) , French Colonial , Spanish Colonial , Dutch Colonial and Georgian .
These styles are associated with the houses , churches and government buildings of the period from about 1600  through the 19th सदी  .
`` in the मनोदशा '' is  a big band era # 1 hit recorded by American bandleader Glenn Miller .
It topped the charts in 1940 in the U.S. and one year later was featured  in  the movie Sun Valley Serenade .
In 1999 , National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 Glenn Miller recording on RCA Bluebird on  the npr  100 , the list of `` The 100 most important American musical works of the 20th century '' .
वरुण  logo
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs   directly into the Internet .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed people to `` surf ''  the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों  run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world .
Along with its sister project , VENUS , NEPTUNE offers a  अद्वितीय दृष्टिकोण to  ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises or space-based satellites to carry out their research , while the NEPTUNE project  uses a  remotely operated crawler .
A gramophone record , commonly known as a phonograph record ( in American English ) , vinyl record ( in  सन्दर्भ to  vinyl , the material most commonly used after about 1950 ) , or colloquially , `` a record '' , is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed , modulated spiral groove .
the नाली प्रायः starts निकट the periphery और ends निकट the बीच of the डिस्क .
फोनोग्राफ रिकॉर्ड  are generally described by their diameter in inches ( 12-inch , 10-inch , 7-inch , etc . ) , the rotational speed at which they are played ( `` 33 rpm `` , `` 78 '' , `` 45 '' , etc . ) , their time capacity ( `` long playing '' ) , their reproductive accuracy , or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '' , `` Orthophonic '' , `` full-range '' , etc . ) , and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono `` , `` stereo `` , `` quadraphonic `` , etc . ) .
Phonograph records were the primary medium used for music reproduction for most of the 20th century , replacing the phonograph cylinder , with which  it  had co-existed , by the 1920s .
By the late  1980s ,  digital media had gained a larger market share , and the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991 .
वे continue to be manufactured और बेची in the 21st सदी  .
In 2008 , nearly 2.9 million units shipped  , the most in any  year since 1998 and the format has continued to slowly regain popularity .
They are especially used by DJs and audiophiles for many types  of  music .
As of 2013 , vinyl records continue to be  प्रयुक्त लिये वितरण  .
Grassland in  the  Santa Rosa Plateau , California .
Grassland in  the  Antelope Valley , California
The Konza tallgrass prairie in the  चकमक पहाड़ियाँ of northeastern  Kansas .
A  घासभूमि in  the Philippines .
An Inner Mongolian   grassland in the People 's Republic of China
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses ( Poaceae ) , however sedge (  cyperaceae ) और  rush ( Juncaceae ) families can also be found .
grasslands  occur naturally on all continents except Antarctica .
In temperate latitudes , such as northwestern Europe and the Great Plains and California in North America , native grasslands are dominated by perennial bunch grass species , whereas in warmer  climates सालाना प्रजाति रूप a वृहद  component of the vegetation .
Grasslands are found in most  ecoregions  of the Earth .
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the temperate grasslands , savannas , and shrublands biome ( ' ecosystem ' ) , which is one of eight  स्थलीय  ecozones of the Earth 's surface .
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis , also called henna tree ) or Hina is a flowering plant , the sole species in the  genus Lawsonia in  the family Lythraceae .
The English name `` henna '' comes from the Arabic ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ / pronounced ) or colloquially  ,  loosely pronounced .
The name is also used for dye preparations derived from the plant , and for  the आर्ट of अस्थाई  tattooing based on those dyes .
हिना  has been used since antiquity to dye skin , hair , and fingernails , as well as fabrics including Silk , wool and leather .
additionally , the नाम is misused लिये अन्य स्किन और बाल dyes , ऐसे as ब्लैक हिना or न्यूट्रल हिना , जिससे हैं नहीं निकला इससे the संयंत्र .
A thin film is a layer of material ranging from fractions of a nanometer ( monolayer )  to अनेक  micrometers in thickness .
Electronic  semiconductor devices and  optical coatings are the main applications benefiting from thin-film construction .
A familiar  अनुप्रयोग of पतला films is the  household mirror , which typically has a thin metal coating on the back of a sheet of glass to form a reflective interface .
The process of silvering  थी एकबार  commonly used to produce mirrors .
A very-thin-film coating ( less than a nanometer  thick  ) is used to produce two-way mirrors .
The performance of optical coatings ( e.g . antireflective , or AR , coatings ) are  typically उन्नत जब the  thin-film coating consists of multiple layers having varying thicknesses and refractive indices .
Similarly , a periodic structure of alternating thin  films of different  materials may collectively form a so-called superlattice which exploits the phenomenon of quantum confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions .
Work is being done with ferromagnetic and ferroelectric thin films for use as  कंप्यूटर  memory .
It is also being applied to pharmaceuticals , via thin-film drug  डिलीवरी  .
thin-films हैं प्रयुक्त  to produce thin-film batteries .
Thin films are also used in  dye-sensitized सौर कोशिकाएं  .
Ceramic thin films are in  चौड़ी  use .
The relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic materials make this type of thin coating of interest for protection of substrate materials  against  corrosion , oxidation and wear .
In particular , the use of such  coatings on कटिंग  tools can extend the life of these items by several orders of magnitude .
Research is being done on a new class of  thin-film अकार्बनिक ऑक्साइड सामग्री , पुकारा amorphous  heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides , which could be used to make transparent transistors that are inexpensive , stable , and environmentally benign .
Gears of War  is a सैन्य विज्ञान fiction third-person शूटर वीडियो खेल विकसित by एपिक खेल और प्रकाशित by microsoft खेल studios .
It was initially released as an exclusive title for the Xbox 360 in November 2005 in North America , Australia , and  most of Europe  and included a `` Limited Collector 's Edition '' with added content and an art book titled Destroyed Beauty that detailed much of the game 's back-story .
Despite the initial statements of Xbox 360 exclusivity , a  microsoft  Windows version of the game was developed in conjunction with People Can Fly and released a year later , featuring new content including additional campaign levels , a new multiplayer game mode , and Games for Windows Live functionality .
The game focuses on the troops of Delta Squad as they wield a desperate , last-ditch attempt to save the remaining human  निवासियों of  the fictional planet Sera from a relentless and seemingly unstoppable subterranean enemy known as the Locust Horde .
The player assumes the role of Marcus Fenix ( but can also play as Dominic Santiago ) , a former  कैदी  and war-hardened soldier .
The game is based on the use of cover and strategic fire for the  player to  advance through the scenarios ; a second player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist .
The game also features  अनेक  online multiplayer game modes for up to eight players .
Gears of War sold over three million copies in just ten weeks and was the  fastest-selling video  game of 2005 as well as the second-most played game over Xbox Live during .
It currently stands  as  the 5th best selling Xbox 360 game of all time .
The game has since sold over five  लाख  copies by September 2008 .
The game was well received by critics ,  जो praised इसके gameplay  and detailed visuals , and it won several `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006 .
The  कामयाबी of the खेल रै led to the विकास  of the Gears of War franchise , including the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and its follow-up , Gears of War 3 , which was released on September 20 , 2011 , after having initially been set to have been released on April 5 , 2011 , the date upon which Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon .
Adaptations to books ,  कॉमिक्स  , as well as a feature film are to be expected .
A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is a 1943 novel  लिखा  by Betty Smith .
The story  focuses on an irish-american  family in Williamsburg , Brooklyn , New York City .
The novel  is नियत in the  first and second decades of the 20th century .
The  किताब  was an immense success .
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of Heaven , native to China and Taiwan , now  माना  invasive , and common in the vacant lots of New York City .
संसार  map with the intertropical zone highlighted in red .
Tropical climate zones of the Earth where all twelve months have mean temperatures above  18 °c ( 64  °F ) .
The tropics is a region  of the  Earth surrounding the Equator .
It is limited in latitude by  the  Tropic of Cancer in the northern hemisphere at approximately N and the Tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth .
The tropics are also referred to as the tropical zone and the torrid  मण्डल  ( see geographical zone ) .
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth where the Sun   reaches a point directly overhead at least once during the solar year .
The tropics are distinguished from the other climatic and biomatic regions of Earth , the  मध्य latitudes  and the polar regions on either side of the equatorial zone .
For the INXS song ,  देखिए कया  You Need ( song ) .
`` What You Need '' is  an एपीसोड  of the American television anthology series The Twilight Zone .
it is आधारित on the छोटी स्टोरी of the वही नाम by लुईस padgett ( हेनरी kuttner और C. L. मूर  ) .
PlayhouseSquare , in the Cleveland Theater District in downtown Cleveland , Ohio , is the second-largest theater  complex in the  United States , second only to New York City 's Lincoln Center ) .
Constructed in a span of 19 months in the early 1920s , the theaters   were subsequently closed down , but were revived through a grassroots effort .
Their renovation and reopening helped usher in a new era of downtown revitalization  in Cleveland  , and was called `` one of the top ten successes in Cleveland history . ''
The driver and passenger  सामने airbags , बाद  having been deployed , in a British Peugeot 306 car .
An airbag is a  गाडी सुरक्षा  device .
It is  an occupant संयम प्रणाली consisting of a लचीली कपड़ा लिफाफा or cushion designed to inflate rapidly दौरान an ऑटोमोबाइल टक्कर .
Its purpose is to cushion occupants during a crash and provide protection to their bodies when they strike interior objects  ऐसे as  the steering wheel or a window .
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag modules in various side and frontal locations of the passenger seating positions , and sensors may deploy one or more airbags in an impact zone at variable rates based on the type , angle and severity  of impact ; the airbag is designed to  only inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes .
Airbags  are  normally designed with the intention of supplementing the protection of an occupant who is correctly restrained with a seatbelt .
Most designs  हैं inflated  through pyrotechnic means and can only be operated once .
Newer side-impact  एयरबैग मौड्यूल consist  of compressed air cylinders that are triggered in the event of a side impact vehicle impact .
The first commercial   designs were introduced in passenger automobiles during the 1970s with limited success .
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during  the late 1980s and early  1990s with a driver airbag , and a front passenger airbag as well on some cars ; and many modern vehicles now include four or more units .
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to report financial information to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) of the United  राज्य  .
They are used to report income ,  गणना  taxes to be paid to the federal government of the United States , and disclose other information as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ) .
There are over 800 various   forms and schedules .
The best-known of these  is रूप  1040 used by individuals .
In the United States , driver 's licenses are issued by each individual state ( including   Washington , D.C. and territories ) , rather than the federal government because of the political concept of federalism .
Drivers are normally required  to obtain a license  from their state of residence and all states recognize each other 's licenses for temporary visitors subject to normal age requirements .
A state may also suspend an individual 's driving  विशेषाधिकार भीतर  its borders for traffic violations .
Many  राज्य share a आम प्रणाली of अनुज्ञा वर्ग , साथ कुछ अपवाद , और वाणिज्यिक अनुज्ञा वर्ग हैं मानकीकृत by संघीय विनियमन at 49 cfr भाग 383 .
China has been the source of many inventions , including the Four Great Inventions : papermaking , the compass ,  बारूद  , and printing ( both woodblock and movable type ) .
the सूची  below contains these and other inventions .
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics , hydraulics , and mathematics applied to horology , metallurgy , astronomy , agriculture ,  अभियान्त्रिकी , म्यूज़िक सिद्धान्त , craftsmanship  , nautics , and warfare .
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 BC ) , they had advanced metallurgic technology , including the blast furnace and cupola furnace , while the  finery forge और puddling प्रक्रम यहूद ज्ञात by  the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ) .
A sophisticated economic system in China gave birth to inventions such as paper money during the Song Dynasty (   960–1279 ) .
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions such as the fire lance , land mine , naval mine , hand cannon , exploding cannonballs ,  multistage प्रक्षेपास्त्र  , and rocket bombs with aerodynamic wings and explosive payloads .
With the navigational aid of the  11th-century कम्पास और क्षमता to steer  at high sea with the 1st-century sternpost rudder , premodern Chinese sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt .
In water-powered clockworks , the premodern Chinese had used the  escapement  mechanism since the 8th century and the endless power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th century .
They also made large mechanical puppet theaters  चलित by waterwheels और carriage  wheels and wine-serving automatons driven by paddle wheel boats .
The contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest Neolithic cultures of China and  यहूद formed  around 7000 BC .
Some of the first inventions of Neolithic , prehistoric China include semilunar and rectangular stone knives , stone hoes and spades , the cultivation of millet , rice and the soybean , the refinement of sericulture , the building of rammed earth structures with lime -plastered house floors , the  creation  of the potter 's wheel , the creation of pottery with cord-mat-basket designs , the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers , and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination .
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c . 2000 BC ) period , the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops , full evidence of Longshan  cultivation of dry-land खाद्यान्न फसलों जिससे  gave high yields `` only when the soil was carefully cultivated , '' suggest that the plow was known at least by the Longshan culture period and explains the high agricultural production yields which allowed the rise of Chinese civilization during the Shang Dynasty ( c. 1600–c . 1050 BC ) .
With later inventions  ऐसे as the multiple-tube  seed drill and heavy moldboard iron plow , China 's agricultural output could sustain a much larger population .
For the purposes of this list , inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in China , and as such does not include foreign technologies which the Chinese acquired through contact , such as the windmill from the Middle East or the telescope  इससे जल्दी आधुनिक यूरोपीय .
It also does not  शामिल  technologies developed elsewhere and later invented separately by the Chinese , such as the odometer and chain pump .
Scientific , mathematic or natural discoveries , changes in minor concepts of design or style and artistic innovations can not  be regarded as आविष्कारों और  do not appear on the list .
Gross domestic product in 2011 US dollars per capita , adjusted  for  inflation and purchasing power parity ( log scale ) from 1860 to 2011 , with population ( disk area ) for the US ( yellow ) , UK ( orange ) , Japan ( red ) , China ( red ) , and India ( blue ) .
वैश्वीकरण ( or globalisation—see स्पेलिंग मतभेद ) is the प्रक्रम of अंतरराष्ट्रीय संयोजन arising इससे the इंटरचेंज of संसार दृश्य , उत्पाद , विचार , और अन्य पहलुओं of संस्कृति .
put in सरल शर्तें , वैश्वीकरण refers to प्रक्रियाओं कि प्रचार world-wide exchanges of नेशनल और सांस्कृतिक संसाधन  .
Advances in  परिवहन और दूरसंचार अवसंरचना , सहित the वृद्धि of the अंतरजाल , हैं प्रमुख कारकों in वैश्वीकरण , generating further interdependence of आर्थिक और सांस्कृतिक क्रियाएँ .
Though several scholars place the origins of globalization in modern times , others  trace  its history long before the European age of discovery and voyages to the New World .
Some even trace the origins to  the  third millennium BCE .
Since the beginning of the 20th century , the pace of globalization has intensified at a rapid rate ,  विशेषकर दौरान the  Post Cold War era .
The term globalization has been in increasing use since the mid-1980s  और विशेषकर चूंकि  the mid-1990s .
In 2000 , the International Monetary Fund ( IMF   ) identified four basic aspects of globalization : trade and transactions , capital and investment movements , migration and movement of people and the dissemination of knowledge .
Further , environmental challenges such as climate change , cross-boundary water and air pollution , and  over-fishing of  the ocean are linked with globalization .
Globalizing processes affect and are affected by business and work  संगठन  , economics , socio-cultural resources , and the natural environment .
The Replacements is a 2000 American  खेल कॉमेडी  film directed by Howard Deutch .
It stars Keanu Reeves , Gene  hackman  , and Brooke Langton .
An American Airlines aircraft takes off from Dallas/Fort Worth International  विमानक्षेत्र  .
This airport is the airline 's  largest  hub .
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic destinations and 78  अंतरराष्ट्रीय गंतव्यों in 48  countries .
(  as of  December 2012 )
The list includes  the नगर , देश , the कोड of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयर हस्तांतरण संघ ( iata विमानक्षेत्र कोड ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय सिविल विमानन संगठन ( icao विमानक्षेत्र कोड ) , और the विमानक्षेत्र 's नाम , साथ the एयरलाइन 's hubs , फ़ोकस शहरों और मौसमी गंतव्यों चिह्नित .
The list also contains destinations no longer served by the airline , which are marked as  terminated गंतव्यों  .
It does not include destinations  परोसा लिये अमरीकी एयरलाइंस by  its regional affiliates American Eagle Airlines , Executive Airlines , and AmericanConnection .
`` day-o ( the banana नाव सोंग ) '' is a परंपरागत jamaican mento लोक सोंग , the best-known संस्करण of जिससे थी सुंग by हैरी belafonte और an वैकल्पिक संस्करण interspersed साथ another jamaican folksong , हिल और गुल्ली सवार , by dame शर्ली  Bassey .
Despite the song 's mento influences , `` Day-O ( The   Banana Boat Song ) '' is widely known as an example of calypso music .
It is a work  song  , from the point of view of dock workers working the night shift loading bananas onto ships .
Daylight has come , the shift is over and they want their  work to  be counted up so that they can go home .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that  began  on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 ,  और the  First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the  world 's  great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised  और विस्तारित as अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया the सेंट्रल शक्तियां .
Ultimately  , more  than 70 million military personnel , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
अधिक than 9 लाख combatants यहूद मारे , largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार in सुरक्षा or गतिशीलता .
It was  the fifth- deadliest  conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers  of  Europe .
अधिक तत्काल , the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया , the वारिस to the सिंहासन of austria-hungary , on 28 जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट जब austria-hungary subsequently वितरित an ultimatum to the किंगडम  of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over  the पिछला  decades were invoked .
भीतर सप्ताह , the प्रमुख शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies , the विरोध जल्द स्प्रेड around the संसार .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the  पहला गोलियाँ  of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans  invaded  neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the   German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but  was  stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up   fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and   Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's  सरकारी  collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies  drove वापस the germans in  a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble  साथ क्रांतिकारियों  , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The  war  ended in victory for the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic  संसाधन to लड़ो  a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman  empires—ceased  to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount of  territory , जबकि the latter  two were dismantled entirely .
the मैप of सेंट्रल यूरोपीय थी redrawn into अनेक छोटी राज्य .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of  preventing  another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany  's defeat  and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
Nurse  जैकी is an अमरीकी  series that premiered on June 8 , 2009 , on Showtime , Movie Central and The Movie Network .
The series stars Edie Falco as the title character Jackie Peyton , an emergency department nurse at All Saints ' Hospital  in New  York City .
For Jackie , `` Every day is a high wire act of juggling patients , doctors , fellow nurses and her own  indiscretions  . ''
keeping up साथ the kardashians ( प्रायः referred to बस as the kardashians ) is an अमरीकी वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on अक्तूबर 14 , 2007 , on e  ! .
It follows the lives of the Kardashian/Jenner family , including sisters   Kourtney , Kim , and Khloé Kardashian .
The series ' success has led to the spin-offs Kourtney and Kim Take New York , Khloé & Lamar  , Kourtney and  Khloé Take Miami , and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
Afghanistan ( ; ; ) , officially the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan , is a landlocked sovereign state forming part of South Asia , Central Asia , and  to कुछ extent पश्चिमी  Asia .
It has a population  of  around 30 million inhabiting an area of approximately , making it the 42nd most populous and 41st largest nation in the world .
It is  bordered  by Pakistan in the south and the east , Iran in the west , Turkmenistan , Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north , and China in the far northeast .
अफगानिस्तान  has been an ancient focal point of the Silk Road and human migration .
Archaeologists have found  प्रमाण of  human habitation from as far back as the Middle Paleolithic .
Urban civilization may have begun in the area as  जल्दी as 3,000 to  2,000 BCE .
Sitting at an important geostrategic location that connects the Middle East culture with Central  एशिया और the  Indian subcontinent , the land has been home to various peoples through the ages and witnessed many military campaigns , notably by Alexander the Great , Genghis Khan , and in modern era Western forces .
The land also served as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians , Kushans , Hephthalites ,  Saffarids ,  Ghaznavids , Ghorids , Khiljis , Timurids , Mughals , Durranis , and others have risen to form major empires .
The political history of the modern state of Afghanistan begins in 1709 , when the Hotaki dynasty was established in Kandahar followed  by  Ahmad Shah Durrani 's rise to power in 1747 .
In the late 19th century , Afghanistan became a buffer state in the `` Great Game `` between  the British and  Russian empires .
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War , King Amanullah  began a यूरोपीय स्टाइल  modernization of the country but was stopped by the ultra-conservatives .
During the Cold War ,  बाद the वापसी  of the British from neighboring India in 1947 , the United States and the Soviet Union began spreading influences in Afghanistan , which led to a bloody war between the US-backed mujahideen forces and the Soviet-backed Afghan government in which over a million Afghans lost their lives .
This was followed by the 1990s civil war , the rise and fall of the extremist  तालिबान सरकारी  and the 2001–present war .
In December 2001 , the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of the International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) to help maintain security in Afghanistan  and assist the  Karzai administration .
Three decades of war made Afghanistan one of the world 's most dangerous countries , including the  largest निर्माता  of refugees and asylum seekers .
While the international community is rebuilding war-torn Afghanistan ,  आतंकवादी समूह ऐसे as the हक्कानी  Network and Hezbi Islami are actively involved in a nationwide Taliban -led insurgency , which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks .
according to the संयुक्त  Nations , the insurgents were responsible for 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012 .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern  slave states that  declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery  , विशेषकर the  extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां  did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left  over 600,000 सैनिको मुर्दे और  destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United  States '  territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven   cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
outgoing लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक republicans अस्वीकृत secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration   would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining   slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous  संघीय  forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a  सुलह  , and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates  assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों  were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12  ,  1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently ,  चार अधिक  slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a  नवल  blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern  थिएटर  was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn  1862 confederate अभियान into  Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation   Proclamation , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the  संघ at vicksburg  split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's Confederate incursion   north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all  संघ सेना  in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture  अटलांटा और marched  to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
the संघ marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड , the confederate  capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April  9 ,  1865 .
The American Civil War was one of the earliest  सच्चा  industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced weapons were  employed extensively  .
The mobilization of civilian factories  , mines  , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It  remains the deadliest युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000 सैनिको और an undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll  at टेन  percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Cost of goods sold ( COGS ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a business has  बेची दौरान  a particular period .
Costs are associated with particular goods using one of several formulas , including specific identification , first-in first-out (  fifo ) , or औसत  cost .
Costs include all costs of purchase , costs of  परिवर्तन और अन्य लागत incurred  in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition .
लागत of goods बना by the कारोबार शामिल सामग्री , मजदूर , और आबंटित ओवरहेड  .
The costs of those goods not yet sold are deferred as costs of inventory until the inventory  is बेची or लिखा  down in value .
Freak Lunchbox candy store in  halifax , नोवा स्कोटिया
A confectionery  store (  more commonly referred to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom , a candy store in the North America , or a lolly shop in Australia ) sells confectionery and is usually targeted to children .
Most confectionery stores are filled with an assortment of  मिठाई  far larger than a grocer or convenience store could accommodate .
They often offer a selection of old fashioned  ट्रीट ,  and sweets from different countries .
Very often unchanged in layout since their inception , confectioneries are known  लिये उनके वार्मिंग  and nostalgic feel .
The village of Pateley Bridge claims to have the  oldest  confectionery store in England .
The oldest sweet shop in England ,  in  the village of Pateley Bridge
ओक्लाहोमा ( ) ( pawnee  : Uukuhuúwa , Cayuga : Gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a state located in West South Central United States .
Oklahoma is the  20th सबसे extensive  and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma , meaning `` red people '' , and it is known informally by its  उपनाम , the sooner राज्य  .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and  भारतीय  Territory on November 16 , 1907 , Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union .
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or , informally `` Okies '' , and its capital and largest city  is Oklahoma  City .
A major producer of natural gas , oil , and agriculture , Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation , energy  ,  telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It  रै एक of the तीव्रतम growing economies in the स्वदेश , रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य in प्रति capita आय विकास और सकल घरेलू उत्पाद विकास .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic   anchors , with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas .
With small mountain ranges , prairie , mesas , and eastern forests , most of Oklahoma lies in the Great Plains and the U.S .  आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स —a प्रदेश  especially prone to severe weather .
In addition to having a prevalence of English , German , Scottish , Irish and Native American  ancestry , अधिक  than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a route for cattle drives , a destination for  दक्षिणी settlers , और a government-sanctioned  territory for Native Americans .
Stacked and  खड़ा car  tires
A tire ( or tyre ) is a ring-shaped covering that fits around a  व्हील 's रिम to protect  it and enable better vehicle performance .
Most tires , such as those for  ऑटोमोबाइल और साइकिल  , provide traction between the vehicle and the road while providing a flexible cushion that absorbs shock .
The materials of modern  न्यूमेटिक टायर हैं सिंथेटिक रबर  , natural rubber , fabric and wire , along with carbon black and other chemical compounds .
They   consist of a tread and a body .
The  tread provides traction  while the body provides containment for a quantity of compressed air .
Before rubber was developed , the first versions of  tires  were simply bands of metal that fitted around wooden wheels to prevent wear and tear .
Early rubber tires were  ठोस (  not pneumatic ) .
Today , the majority of tires are pneumatic inflatable structures , comprising a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires  encased in रबर और  generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion .
Pneumatic tires are used on many types  of  vehicles , including cars , bicycles , motorcycles , trucks , earthmovers , and aircraft .
Metal tires are still used on locomotives and railcars , and solid rubber ( or other polymer ) tires are still used in  विभिन्न  non-automotive applications , such as some casters , carts , lawnmowers , and wheelbarrows .
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11 , 1741 – June 17 , 1775 ) was an American doctor who played a leading role in American Patriot organizations in Boston in early days of the American Revolution , eventually serving as president of the revolutionary   Massachusetts Provincial Congress .
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on April 18 , 1775 , to leave Boston and spread the alarm that the British garrison in Boston was setting out   to raid the town of Concord and arrest rebel leaders John Hancock and Samuel Adams .
Warren participated in the next day 's Battles of Lexington and Concord , which are commonly considered to be the opening engagements of  the  American Revolutionary War .
Warren had been commissioned a Major General  in  the colony 's militia shortly before the June 17 , 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill .
Rather than exercising his rank  , Warren  served in the battle as a private soldier , and was killed in combat when British troops stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's Hill .
His death , immortalized in John Trumbull 's painting , The Death of General Warren at  the बैटल of बंकर 's हिल ,  June 17 , 1775 , galvanized the rebel forces , and he has been memorialized in many place names in the United States .
STM image   of self-assembled supramolecular chains of the organic semiconductor Quinacridone on Graphite .
An organic semiconductor is an organic material with  सेमीकंडक्टर गुण  , that is , with an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals .
Single molecules , short chain  (  oligomers ) and organic polymers can be semiconductive .
Semiconducting small molecules ( aromatic hydrocarbons ) include the  polycyclic  aromatic compounds pentacene , anthracene , and rubrene .
Polymeric organic semiconductors include poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ) , poly  ( p-phenylene vinylene  ) , as well as polyacetylene and its derivatives .
There are two major  अतिव्यापी  classes of organic semiconductors .
These are organic  charge-transfer  complexes and various linear-backbone conductive polymers derived from polyacetylene .
Linear   backbone organic semiconductors include polyacetylene itself and its derivatives polypyrrole , and polyaniline .
At least  locally  , charge-transfer complexes often exhibit similar conduction mechanisms to inorganic semiconductors .
Such mechanisms arise from the presence of hole and electron conduction layers separated  by a  band gap .
While such classic mechanisms are important locally , as with inorganic amorphous semiconductors , tunnelling , localized states , mobility gaps , and phonon -assisted hopping also significantly  योगदान to  conduction , particularly in polyacetylenes .
Like inorganic semiconductors ,  सशुल्क semiconductors  can be doped .
Organic semiconductors susceptible to doping such as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) and are  भी ज्ञात  as organic metals .
Typical current carriers in organic semiconductors are  छेद  and electrons in π-bonds .
लगभग  all organic solids are insulators .
But when their constituent molecules have π-conjugate systems , electrons can move via π-electron cloud overlaps  , especially  by hopping , tunnelling and related mechanisms .
Polycyclic  खुशबूदार hydrocarbons और  phthalocyanine salt crystals are examples of this type of organic semiconductor .
Mainly due to low mobility , even unpaired electrons may be stable  in  charge-transfer complexes .
Such unpaired electrons can function as current  वाहक  .
This type of  सेमीकंडक्टर  is also obtained by pairing an electron donor molecule with an electron acceptor molecule .
Female  स्खलन is the expulsion  of fluid by human females from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm .
It is also known colloquially as  gushing or squirting , हालांकि  these are considered to be different phenomena in some research publications .
The  सटीक सोर्स और प्रकृति of the द्रव  continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals , which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international association football competition contested by the senior women 's national teams of the members of Fédération  internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ  ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
the चैंपियनशिप रै महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार सालो चूंकि the inaugural टूर्नामेंट in 1991  .
Japan won the  2011 टूर्नामेंट  in a penalty shootout .
The current format of the  टूर्नामेंट involves 16 टीमों  competing for the title at venues within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about three weeks ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the  मेजबान  nation ( s ) .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is recognized as the most important  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  competition in women 's football and is played amongst women 's national football teams of the member states of FIFA , the sport 's global governing body .
The first Women 's World Cup tournament , named the Women 's World Championship , was held in 1991  ,  sixty-one years after the men 's first FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930 .
The six   World Cup tournaments have been won by four different national teams .
The   next World Cup will be hosted by Canada in 2015 .
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by Walter Dean Myers , first published in the United States by Harper & Row on June  20 , 1988  .
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew Bible by Joseph  athias , अभी  at Beth Hatefutsoth , Israel
'Son of man ' is the translation   of various Hebrew and Greek phrases used in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament .
It has diverse meanings  , ranging  from a normal human being to a prophesied eternal , divine ruler .
The Hebrew  अभिव्यक्ति  `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e . ben-'adam ) appears one hundred and seven times in the Hebrew Bible .
This is the most common Hebrew construction for the singular but is  used mostly  in Ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere .
In thirty  two cases  the phrase appears in intermediate plural form `` sons of men '' , i.e . human beings .
As generally  interpreted  by Jews , it denotes humankind generally .
In the Koine Greek of the New Testament , `` the son of man '' is invariably used as  `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ  ἀνθρώπου '' with a definite article .
The use of the definite article in `` the son of man '' in the Christian gospels is novel , and before its use there , no records of its use in any of the  surviving यूनानी दस्तावेज़ of प्राचीनता  exist .
Geza Vermes has stated that `` the Son of  man '' in the ईसाई  gospels is unrelated to Hebrew Bible usages .
In Christian usage , unlike the Son of  God title , which has been an  essential element of Christian creeds since the Apostolic age , the proclamation of `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity .
The  निर्वचन of the उपयोग of `` the बेटे of man '' in the नई वसीयत रै remained चुनौतीपूर्ण और बाद 150 सालो of बहस no सर्वसम्मति on the समस्या रै उभरा among विद्वानों .
Master of foxhounds leads  the फ़ील्ड  from Powderham Castle in Devon , England , with the hounds in front .
Fox hunting is an activity involving the tracking , chase  , and  sometimes killing of a fox , traditionally a red fox , by trained foxhounds or other scent hounds , and a group of unarmed followers led by a master of foxhounds , who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback .
Fox hunting originated in the form practised until recently in the United Kingdom in the 16th century , but is  practised सब over  the world , including in Australia , Canada , France , Ireland , Italy and the United States .
in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , the term also refers to the hunting of foxes with firearms similar to spotlighting or deer hunting .
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g. , deer hunting with bow and  तीर  ) ; in Britain and Ireland , `` hunting '' without qualification implies fox hunting ( or other forms of hunting with hounds- beagling , stag hunting , mink hunting , drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here .
The sport is controversial , particularly in the UK , where it was banned in Scotland in 2002 , and in  England and Wales in November 2004 ( law enforced from  February 2005 ) , though shooting foxes as vermin remained legal .
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an important part of rural culture and useful for reasons of conservation and  pest कंट्रोल , जबकि प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि  it is cruel and unnecessary .
Tobacco advertising  is the  advertising of tobacco products or use ( typically cigarette smoking ) by the tobacco industry through a variety of media including sponsorship , particularly of sporting events .
It is now one of the most highly   regulated forms of marketing .
Some or  सब  forms of tobacco advertising are banned in many countries .
Bally Technologies , Inc. is a manufacturer of slot machines and other gaming technology   based in Las Vegas , Nevada .
The company was founded in 1968 as  उन्नत  Patent Technology .
It eventually changed its name to Alliance Gaming and acquired , in 1996 , Bally Gaming International , a  former division of Bally  Manufacturing .
In 2006 , the entire company adopted the Bally name , a trademark that  originated in 1932  by the Bally Manufacturing Corporation .
Gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; here , Dante is lost  in canto  1 of the Inferno .
Inferno ( Italian for `` Hell `` ) is the first part of Dante Alighieri  's  14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy .
It is followed by  purgatorio  and Paradiso .
It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through Hell   , guided by the Roman poet Virgil .
In the poem , Hell is depicted as  नौ वृत्त  of suffering located within the Earth .
Allegorically , the Divine Comedy represents the journey of the soul towards God , with the Inferno describing the   recognition and rejection of sin .
Smirnoff is a  ब्रांड  of vodka owned and produced by the British company Diageo .
The Smirnoff brand began with  a  vodka distillery founded in Moscow by Pyotr Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ) .
It is now distributed in  130 देशों  .
It is produced in several countries including India , Ireland , Italy , the United Kingdom  and the  United States .
Smirnoff products include vodka ,  flavoured  vodka , and malt beverages .
In March 2006 , Diageo North America  claimed कि स्मरनॉफ  vodka was the best-selling distilled spirit brand in the world .
Big Brown ( foaled April 10 , 2005 in Kentucky ) is a retired   champion American Thoroughbred racehorse and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes .
Bred by Dr. Gary B. Knapp 's Monticule Farms in Lexington , Kentucky , he  जीती  his first five race starts .
He was sired by Grade III winner Boundary , a son of North American Champion  sire danzig ,  a son of Northern Dancer .
Big Brown 's dam was Mien , also a granddaughter of Northern  नर्तकी through  her sire , Nureyev .
The Serenity Prayer is the common name for an originally  बेनाम दुआ  by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ) .
It has been adopted by   Alcoholics Anonymous and other twelve-step programs .
The  best-known रूप is  : God , grant me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
The  हिम्मत  to change the things I can,
And wisdom to know  the  difference .
The Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental  कॉंग्रेस ( भी ज्ञात as the घोषणा  of Colonial Rights , or the Declaration of Rights ) , was a statement adopted by the First Continental Congress on October 14 , 1774 , in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament .
The Declaration  outlined औपनिवेशिक  objections to the Intolerable Acts , listed a colonial bill of rights , and provided a detailed list of grievances .
It was similar to the Declaration of Rights and  grievances , passed by the  Stamp Act Congress a decade earlier .
The Declaration  concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans :  to enter into a boycott of British trade ( the Continental Association ) until their grievances were redressed , to publish addresses to the people of Great Britain and British America , and to send a petition to the King .
Pulse pressure is the pressure that is felt  when  feeling the pulse .
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ) , the pressure  अंतर  between the systolic and diastolic pressures is the pressure change to create the pulse , which is the pulse pressure .
If resting blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic ) 120/80  millimeters  of mercury ( mmHg ) , pulse pressure is 40 .
The Hills is a  वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न  series which originally aired on MTV from May 31 , 2006 until July 13 , 2010 .
The show uses a reality television format , following  the निजी  lives of several young adults living in Los Angeles , California , but tends towards a narrative format more commonly found in scripted genres such as soap operas .
the श्रेणी originally followed the निजी जीवन of पूर्व लगुना बीच स्टार लॉरेन कोनराड और उसके मित्रों ' नई जीवनदान in लॉस एंजिल्स  .
After five seasons  , Conrad left the series  and was replaced by another former Laguna Beach star , Kristin Cavallari , beginning in the second half of the fifth season .
the श्रेणी concluded at the समाप्त of the छठे ऋतु .
Entertainment Weekly ranked The Hills 82nd on their list of `` The 100 Best Shows of the Last 25 Years , ''  stating कि the  series was a `` New Classic . ''
AOL TV called it TV 's Biggest  अपराधी  Pleasure .
The series premiered in syndication in  the पतन of 2009 alongside  Laguna Beach : The Real Orange County .
In poker , bad beat is a subjective term for a hand in which a player with what appear to be strong cards nevertheless  loses  .
It most often occurs where one player bets the clearly stronger hand and their opponent makes a poor call that  आखिरकार  `` hits '' and wins .
There is no consensus among poker players as to what exactly constitutes a bad beat and often players will  असहमत परिचय whether a  particular hand was a bad beat .
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater fish in the family Cyprinidae  of  order Cypriniformes .
It was one of the earliest fish to be domesticated , and is one of the most  commonly  kept aquarium fish .
A relatively small member of the carp family ( which also includes the koi carp and   the crucian carp ) , the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia .
It was first domesticated in China more than  a  thousand years ago , and several distinct breeds have since been developed .
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size ,  body shape  , fin configuration and coloration ( various combinations of white , yellow , orange , red , brown , and black are known ) .
uncooked  Rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade , singular : roulade ) is a German meat roulade  प्रायः  consisting of bacon , onions , mustard and pickles wrapped in thinly sliced beef which is then cooked .
In some countries , the  roulade  is also known as `` beef olive '' .
Beef or veal is used as meat though some food scholars tend to believe that the original version was probably venison or pork , and pork  is still  popular in some areas .
The beef rouladen as we  जान उन्हें आज  have become popular over the last century .
The cut is usually topside beef or silverside  चूंकि इस  is the cheaper cut .
The more expensive version would be  the  round steak , also known as rump steak .
The meat is cut into large  ,  thin slices .
The filling is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork belly , chopped onions and chopped pickles ( gurken ) which is at times varied  by adding minced meat ,  sausage meat , pine nuts and mustard .
The  मिश्रण  varies from region to region .
Rouladen  हैं  traditionally served for dinner .
Red wine is often served with  इस  dish .
ठेठ  eukaryotic cell .
Cellular  श्वसन is the नियत of the  metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions , which break large molecules into smaller ones ,  releasing  energy in the process as weak so-called `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products .
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular  कार्यकलाप  .
Cellular respiration is considered an  ऊष्माक्षेपी रेडॉक्स  reaction .
The overall reaction is broken into many  छोटी ones जब it occurs  in the body , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically , cellular respiration is a combustion reaction , it clearly  does  not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell .
इस अंतर is क्युकी it occurs in अनेक पृथक कदम .
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction , no single reaction that comprises it is a combustion  प्रतिक्रिया  .
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal  and plant cells in  respiration include sugar , amino acids and fatty acids , and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ) .
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate  समूह is weakly बंधुआ  to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form , thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring energy , including biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes .
Countries by 2011 GDP ( nominal  ) according  to the CIA World Factbook .
This article includes a list of countries in the world sorted by their gross domestic product ( GDP ) , the market value of all  final goods and  services from a nation in a given year .
The  जीडीपी डालर  estimates presented here are calculated at market or government official exchange rates .
Several economies which are not considered to be countries ( world , the EU , and some dependent  territories ) are  included in the lists because they appear in the sources .
These economies are not ranked in  the चार्ट  here , but are listed where applicable .
The figures presented here do not take into account differences in the cost of living in different countries , and the results can vary greatly from one year to another based on fluctuations  in  the exchange rates of the country 's currency .
Such fluctuations may change a country 's ranking  इससे एक साल to the अगला  , even though they often make little or no difference to the standard of living of its population .
इसलिए  these figures should be used with caution .
Some countries/regions may have citizens which  are  on average wealthy .
These  countries/regions  could appear in this list as having a small GDP .
इस होता be क्युकी the country/region सूचीबद्ध रै a छोटी जनसांख्यिकी , और इसलिए छोटी कुल अर्थव्यवस्था ; the जीडीपी is गणना as the जनसांख्यिकी टाइम्स the माल प्रति capita .
Comparisons  of  national wealth are also frequently made on the basis of purchasing power parity ( PPP ) , to adjust for differences in the cost of living in different countries .
( See   List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem , but has its own drawbacks ; it does not reflect the value of economic output in international trade , and it also requires more estimation  than नाममात्र  GDP .
On the whole , PPP per capita figures are more narrowly spread  than नाममात्र  GDP per capita figures .
The first list includes data  compiled  by the United Nations Statistics Division for 2011 .
The second  list  largely includes data ( estimate ) compiled by the International Monetary Fund for 2012 .
The third list shows the World Bank 's mostly 2011 estimates , and the fourth list includes  mostly 2012  estimates from the CIA World Factbook .
Lapping is a machining process , in which two surfaces are rubbed together with an abrasive between them , by hand movement or by way   of a machine .
This  can  take two forms .
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ) , typically involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself ( also known as the `` lap '' or grinding tool ) with an abrasive such as  एल्यूमिनियम ऑक्साइड  , jeweller 's rouge , optician 's rouge , emery , silicon carbide , diamond , etc. , in between them .
This produces  microscopic conchoidal  fractures as the abrasive rolls about between the two surfaces and removes material from both .
The other form of lapping involves a softer material such as pitch or a ceramic for the   lap , which is `` charged '' with the abrasive .
The lap is then used to  काटें a  harder material—the workpiece .
The abrasive embeds within the softer material which holds it and permits it to score across and cut the harder  सामग्री  .
Taken to a finer limit , this will produce a polished surface such as with a polishing cloth on an automobile , or a polishing cloth or polishing  pitch  upon glass or steel .
Taken to the ultimate limit , with the aid of accurate interferometry and specialized  पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled हाथ पॉलिशिंग  , lensmakers can produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers .
इस is एक बीसवीं  of the wavelength of light from the commonly used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source .
Surfaces this flat can be molecularly bonded ( optically contacted ) by bringing them together under the  सही शर्तें  .
( This is not the same as the wringing effect of   Johansson blocks , although it is similar ) .
The term `` America 's Team  '' is a लोकप्रिय उपनाम in the  United States that refers to the Dallas Cowboys in the National Football League .
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film , where the narrator opens with the following introduction  : The term  is recognized and often used by media outlets , including ESPN , Yahoo ! , HBO Sports , and Sports Illustrated .
My  दाई 's a पिशाच ( फ्रेंच : ma gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 कनाडाई टेलीविज़न श्रेणी , आधारित on the टेलीविज़न फिल्मी of the वही नाम .
In Canada , the series premiered in French on Télétoon on February 28  , 2011 ,  in English on Teletoon on March 14 , 2011 , and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27 , 2011 .
The show was created by Fresh TV , creators of 6teen and  Total  Drama .
the दिखाएँ  follows Ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ) , who , in the television film , learns that his babysitter Sarah ( Vanessa Morgan ) is a vampire .
In the film , he learns he is able to have visions and his best friend Benny Weir ( Atticus   Mitchell ) is a spellmaster .
The series follows the three as they take on supernatural forces and have adventures  , with occasional  help from fellow vampires Rory ( Cameron Kennedy ) and Erica ( Kate Todd ) , while dealing with the troubles of regular high school life .
A second season was confirmed to  प्रारंभ  production in September 2011 and it first premiered on Disney Channel on June 29 , 2012 , it premiered on Teletoon September 6 , 2012 .
Télétoon started featuring   season 2 sneak-peak episodes on October 28 , 2012 and premiered it on January 10 , 2013
Dodge  b श्रेणी  utility circa 1950 , driven by Albert Namatjira
A pickup truck or pick-up , often   simply referred to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built , integrated bed , as well as for coupé utility vehicles , often based on a personal car chassis , but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such  use  .
Some countries have their own  शर्तें समान  to pickup , such as ute in Australia and New Zealand , or bakkie in South Africa .
Large pickup trucks are   somewhat rare in Europe , where vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles .
The President of the United States  of अमेरिका  ( POTUS ) is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the  संयुक्त राज्य  Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law , alongside the responsibility  of appointing federal executive , diplomatic ,  regulatory , and judicial officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons and reprieves , and to convene and adjourn either or  दोनो घरों of कॉंग्रेस  under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States , the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president , despite possessing no formal legislative powers beyond signing or vetoing congressionally passed bills , is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the  विदेशी  and domestic policy of the United States .
The president is frequently  वर्णित as the  most powerful person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term , and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United   States .
The Twenty-second Amendment , adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone   from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term .
It also prohibits  a person from being  elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as president , or acting president , for more than two years of another person 's term as president .
In all , 43 individuals have served 55   four-year terms .
On January 20 , 2009 , Barack Obama  became  the 44th and current president .
on नवम्बर  6 , 2012 , he was re-elected and is scheduled to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Bottled  खनिज  water
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g. , well water , distilled water , Mineral water  , or spring  water ) packaged in plastic or glass water bottles .
बोतलबंद जल  may be carbonated or not .
Sizes range   from small single serving bottles to large carboys for water coolers .
मैप  of the major rivers , lakes , and reservoirs in India
Map showing rivers and flood prone areas  in  India
नदियाँ  of India play an important role in the lives of the Indian people .
The river systems provide irrigation , potable water , cheap transportation , electricity , and the  livelihoods लिये a विशाल  number of people all over the country and to rural areas .
This easily explains why nearly all the major  शहरों  of India are located by the banks of rivers .
The rivers   also have an important role in Hindu mythology and are considered holy by all Hindus in the country .
Seven major  नदियाँ साथ साथ  their numerous tributaries make up the river system of India .
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ; however , some of the rivers whose courses take them through the western part of the country and towards the east of the state of Himachal  Pradesh empty into  the Arabian Sea .
Parts of Ladakh , northern parts  of the  Aravlli range and the arid parts of the Thar Desert have inland drainage .
Dr.Francis  बुकानन surveyed the  courses of the rivers of India along with their tributaries and branches in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it .
The shifting of the courses  और  bed over the centuries is very remarkable .
Many of the channels mentioned in that survey have now become dead , dried or even   extinct .
All major rivers of India originate from one of the  तीन प्रमुख  watersheds :
the हिमालय और the काराकोरम सीमाएँ
Vindhya and Satpura ranges and Chotanagpur   plateau in central India
Sahyadri  or  Western Ghats in western India
The Bretton Woods  system of  monetary management established the rules for commercial and financial relations among the world 's major industrial states in the mid-20th century .
The Bretton Woods system was the first example of a fully negotiated monetary order intended to  govern मौद्रिक संबंध  among independent nation-states .
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II was  स्टिल  raging , 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations gathered at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods , New Hampshire , United States , for the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference .
The delegates deliberated during 1–22 July 1944  ,  and signed the Agreement on its final day .
Setting up a system of rules , institutions , and procedures to regulate the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय मौद्रिक प्रणाली , the planners at bretton  Woods established the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( IBRD ) , which today is part of the World Bank Group .
These organizations became  operational  in 1945 after a sufficient number of countries had ratified the agreement .
The chief features of the Bretton Woods system were an obligation for each country to adopt a monetary policy that maintained the exchange rate by tying its currency to the U.S. dollar and the ability  of the IMF to  bridge temporary imbalances of payments .
On  15 अगस्त 1971 , the संयुक्त राज्य unilaterally terminated convertibility of the us $ to सुनहरा .
This brought  the Bretton  Woods system to an end and saw the dollar become fiat currency .
This action , referred to as the Nixon shock , created the situation in which the United States dollar   became a reserve currency used by many states .
At the same time , many fixed currencies ( such as GBP , for example ) , also became free   floating .
Ducati Motor Holding  s.p.A. is an इतालवी  company that designs and manufactures motorcycles .
Headquartered in Bologna , Italy , Ducati  is स्वामित्व by audi  through its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini .
A credit score is a numerical  अभिव्यक्ति आधारित  on a statistical analysis of a person 's credit files , to represent the creditworthiness of that person .
A  क्रेडिट स्कोर is primarily  based on credit report information typically sourced from credit bureaus .
Lenders , such as banks and credit card  कंपनियाँ  , use credit scores to evaluate the potential risk posed by lending money to consumers and to mitigate losses due to bad debt .
Lenders use credit  स्कोर to  determine who qualifies for a loan , at what interest rate , and what credit limits .
lenders भी  use credit scores to determine which customers are likely to bring in the most revenue .
The use of credit or  identity  scoring prior to authorizing access or granting credit is an implementation of a trusted system .
Credit scoring is not limited to banks  .
Other organizations , such as mobile phone companies ,   insurance companies , landlords , and government departments employ the same techniques .
Credit scoring also  has a lot  of overlap with data mining , which uses many similar techniques .
These techniques  combine हज़ारों of कारकों  but they are more or less similar or the same .
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of their definitions : for example , to extract the definition of the metre from the speed of light , the definition of the  दूसरी जरूर be ज्ञात जबकि the ampere और candela  are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length , mass and time .
The International   System of Units ( SI ) defines seven units of measure as a basic set from which all other SI units are derived .
These SI base units and their  शारीरिक quantities  are:
metre for length ( US  अंग्रेज़ी  : meter )
किलोग्राम लिये  mass ( note : not the gram )
दूसरी  for time
ampere  लिये इलेक्ट्रिक  current
kelvin for  तापमान
candela  for luminous intensity
mole for  the  amount of substance .
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually independent dimensions as required by dimensional analysis commonly employed  in  science and technology .
however , in a दिए realization of ये इकाई वे may खूब be interdependent , i.e . पारिभाषित in शर्तें of प्रत्येक अन्य  .
The names of SI units are written in  लोअरकेस  characters ( the 'degree Celsius ' meets this rule , as 'degree ' is the unit , and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ) .
The symbols of units are written in lowercase ( e.g . metre has the symbol m )  , except that symbols for  units named after persons are written with an initial capital letter ( e.g. , the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ) .
Many other units , such   as the litre ( US English : liter ) , are formally not part of the SI , but are accepted for use with SI .
स्मारक  Canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The Monument ) is a part of the National Park Service near  the city  of Grand Junction , Colorado .
Spectacular canyons cut deep into sandstone and even granite–gneiss–schist  चट्टान formations  , in some areas .
This is an area of desert  जमीन ऊँची  on the Colorado Plateau , with pinion and juniper forests on the plateau .
The park hosts a wide range of wildlife , including red-tailed hawks and golden eagles , ravens ,  jays  , desert bighorn sheep , and coyotes .
Activities include hiking , horseback riding , road bicycling , and scenic drives ; a visitor center on the west side contains a natural history museum  और तोहफा  shop .
वहीँ हैं भव्य दृश्य इससे trails और the रिम चट्टान ड्राइव , जिससे हवाएँ साथ the पठार  .
Nearby are the Book Cliffs , and the largest flat-topped   mountain in the world , the Grand Mesa .
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon , which runs the width of the park , and includes rock formations such as Independence Monument , the Kissing  युगल , और  Coke Ovens .
The monument  शामिल  20,500 acres ( 32 square miles ) , much of which has been recommended to Congress for designation as wilderness .
left to right : Utility Uniform , Blue Dress Uniform ,  सेवा  Uniform , and Evening Dress uniforms
The Uniforms of the United States Marine Corps serve to distinguish Marines from  सदस्यों of अन्य  services .
Among current uniforms in the United States Armed Forces , the Marines ' uniforms have  महरूम  in service the longest .
the समुद्री  Dress Blue uniform has , with few changes , been worn in essentially its current form since the 19th century .
उत्तर अमरीकी  telephone area codes 419 and 567 serve the northwest quadrant of the U.S. state of Ohio .
The largest city served by these area codes is Toledo ( and its suburbs of Holland , Maumee , Northwood , Oregon , Ottawa   Hills , Perrysburg , Rossford , Sylvania , Swanton , Waterville , and Whitehouse ) .
Other cities served by these area codes include Ada , Ashland , Bellevue , Bluffton , Bowling Green , Bryan , Bucyrus , Celina , Clyde , Crestline , Defiance , Delphos , Edison , Erastus , Findlay , Fostoria , Fremont , Galion , Kenton , Lima , Mansfield , Mount Gilead , Napoleon , Norwalk , Oak Harbor , Port Clinton , Sandusky , Shelby , St. Marys , Tiffin , Upper Sandusky , Van  wert , wapakoneta ,  Wauseon , Willard .
Other areas served include the Lake Erie Islands north of Port Clinton and west  of  Sandusky .
The main area code , 419 , was created as one of the original area codes in October 1947  ; the ओवरले  area code 567 was created on January 1 , 2002 .
Despite the presence of Toledo , the state 's fourth-largest city , 419 was the last of Ohio 's original four area  कोड to have  been split or overlaid .
Mickey Leroy Gilley ( born  कूच 9 , 1936  ) is an American country music singer and musician .
Although he started out singing straight-up country and western material in the 1970s , he moved towards a more pop  -friendly ध्वनि in the 1980s , bringing उसे further  success on not just the country charts , but the pop charts as well .
Among his biggest hits are `` Room Full of Roses , '' `` Do n't the Girls All Get Prettier at Closing Time , '' and the  remake  of the Soul hit `` Stand by Me `` .
He is also the cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis , Carl  mcvoy  , Jim Gilley and Jimmy Swaggart .
According to the Federal Aviation Administration , Gilley is a licensed pilot , who holds an instrument rating with  वाणिज्यिक  pilot privileges for multi-engine airplanes , as well as private pilot privileges for single engine aircraft .
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11 , September 11th , or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United  States in New York City  and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners were hijacked  by 19 al-Qaeda  terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes ,  अमरीकी  Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175 , were crashed into the North and South towers , respectively , of the World Trade Center complex in New York City .
Within two hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other buildings in the WTC  जटिल , as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन  other large surrounding structures .
A third plane , American Airlines Flight 77 , was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense ) , leading to a partial collapse in its  पश्चिमी  side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 , was targeted at the United States Capitol in Washington , D.C. , but crashed into a  फ़ील्ड निकट shanksville  , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total , almost 3,000 people died in the attacks , including the 227  नागरिकों और 19  hijackers aboard the four planes .
suspicion  quickly fell on al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin Laden , initially denied any involvement , in 2004 he claimed  जिम्मेदारी लिये the  attacks .
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel , the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia , and sanctions against Iraq as motives for the  हमले  .
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan  to depose the  Taliban , which had harbored al-Qaeda .
Many   countries strengthened their anti-terrorism legislation and expanded law enforcement powers .
Having  evaded कैप्चर  for years , bin Laden was located and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011 .
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant  प्रभाव on  global markets .
Cleanup of  the संसार  Trade Center site was completed in May 2002 , and the Pentagon was repaired within a year .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York  , the Pentagon Memorial ,  and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a lengthy  delay , the  One World Trade Center is expected to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013 .
Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film written and directed by Andrew Stanton , released  by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी  Pictures , and the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios .
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who , along with  a  regal tang named Dory ( Ellen DeGeneres ) , searches for his abducted son Nemo ( Alexander Gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour .
Along the way , Marlin learns to take risks and let Nemo   take care of himself .
It is Pixar 's first film to be released in cinemas in the  उत्तरी गोलार्ध  summer .
The film  थी re-released  for the first time in 3D on September 14 , 2012 , and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4 , 2012 .
A sequel , Finding Dory , is currently in development   , set to be released on November 25 , 2015 .
The film   received universal critical acclaim and won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature , and was nominated in three more categories including Best Original Screenplay .
It was the second highest-grossing film of 2003 , earning a total of $ 921  लाख  worldwide .
Finding Nemo is  also the  best-selling DVD of all time , with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006 , and was the highest-grossing G-rated film of all time before Pixar 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it .
It is also  the 23rd  highest-grossing film of all time , as well as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film .
In 2008 , the American Film Institute named it the tenth greatest animated  फिल्मी  ever made during their Top 10 .
The sixth season  of अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू , भी ज्ञात as अमेरिका 's बेहतरीन नृत्य क्रू : ऋतु of the सुपरस्टार , premiered on अप्रैल 7 , 2011 और concluded on जून 5 , 2011 .
auditions  were held in four cities from January 21 through February 5 : Chicago , Houston , New York , and Los Angeles .
This season takes a different route   from past seasons .
The crews must perform to the music of one specific artist each   week , including Rihanna , Lil Wayne , and other popular stars .
इस ऋतु भी सुविधाएँ खास अतिथि दिखावे by विभिन्न म्यूज़िक हस्तियाँ सहित जस्टिन बीबर , the ब्लैक eyed मटर , कैटी पेरी , kesha , निकी minaj , और kanye  West .
Dominic `` D-Trix '' Sandoval , a former member of Quest Crew , the winner of the third season of  अमेरिका  's Best Dance Crew , joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge .
in the  season finale , I aM mE was declared the winner of Season 6 and received the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize .
In the United States , Social Security refers to the Old-Age , Survivors , and  विकलांगता  Insurance ( OASDI ) federal program .
The original Social Security Act ( 1935 ) and the current version of the  अधिनियम , as  amended , encompass several social welfare and social insurance programs .
Social Security is  primarily  funded through dedicated payroll taxes called Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax ( FICA ) .
Tax deposits  are formally  entrusted to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund , the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund , the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund , or the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund .
upward redistribution of आय is जिम्मेदार लिये परिचय 43 % of the प्रक्षिप्त सोशल सुरक्षा shortfall over the अगला  75 years .
According  to economist Martin  Feldstein , the combined spending for all social insurance programs in 2003 constituted 37 % of government expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic product .
Social  सुरक्षा is  currently estimated to keep roughly 40 percent of all Americans age 65 or older out of poverty .
The  सोशल  Security Administration is headquartered in Woodlawn , Maryland , just west of Baltimore .
The alcohol by volume shown on a bottle  of  absinthe .
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV , abv , or alc/vol ) is a standard measure of how much alcohol ( ethanol ) is contained in an alcoholic  पेय ( expressed as a प्रतिशत  of total volume ) .
The ABV standard is used  विश्वव्यापी  .
In some countries , alcohol by volume  is referred to as डिग्री  Gay-Lussac ( after the French chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ) .
Laurel Hollow is a village in the Town of Oyster Bay in Nassau County , New York in the  United  States .
The population was 1,952 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी .
Charles John Huffam Dickens ( ; 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870 ) was an English writer and social  आलोचक  .
He created some of the world 's most memorable fictional   characters and is generally regarded as the greatest novelist of the Victorian period .
During his life , his works enjoyed   unprecedented fame , and by the twentieth century his literary genius was broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars .
उसके  novels and short stories continue to be widely popular .
Born in Portsmouth , England , Dickens left school to work in a factory after his father was   thrown into debtors ' prison .
Although he had little formal  शिक्षा , उसके  early impoverishment drove him to succeed .
Over his career he edited a weekly journal for 20 years , wrote 15 novels , 5 novellas  और सैंकड़ों of छोटी  stories and non-fiction articles , lectured and performed extensively , was an indefatigable letter writer , and campaigned vigorously for children 's rights , education , and other social reforms .
Dickens sprang to fame with the 1836 serial  प्रकाशन of the  Pickwick Papers .
Within a few years he had become an international literary celebrity , famous  लिये उसके  humour , satire , and keen observation of character and society .
His novels , most published in monthly or weekly instalments , pioneered the serial publication of  कथा fiction , जिससे became  the dominant Victorian mode for novel publication .
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience 's reaction , and  he  often modified his plot and character development based on such feedback .
For example , when his wife 's chiropodist expressed distress at the way Miss Mowcher in David Copperfield seemed to reflect her disabilities , Dickens went on to improve the  अक्षर साथ धनात्मक  lineaments .
Fagin in Oliver Twist  जाहिर  mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon ; His caricature of Leigh Hunt in the figure of Mr Skimpole in Bleak House was likewise toned down on advice from some of his friends , as they read episodes .
In the same novel , both Lawrence Boythorne and Mooney the beadle are drawn from real life – Boythorne from Walter  जंगली landor  and Mooney from 'Looney ' , a beadle at Salisbury Square .
His  भूखंड यहूद carefully  constructed , and Dickens often wove in elements from topical events into his narratives .
Masses of the illiterate poor chipped in ha'pennies to have each new monthly episode read to them , opening up and  प्रेरणादायी  a new class of readers .
Dickens was regarded as the literary  colossus  of his age .
His 1843 novella , A Christmas Carol , is one of the most influential works ever written , and it remains popular and  continues  to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre .
His creative genius has been praised by fellow writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and George Orwell —for its realism , comedy  ,  prose style , unique characterisations , and social criticism .
On the other hand Oscar Wilde , Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a lack of psychological depth , loose writing , and  a  vein of saccharine sentimentalism .
Martin Luther King and other civil rights leaders in front of the  प्रतिमा of अब्राहम  Lincoln , August 28 , 1963
The civil rights movement was a series of worldwide political movements for equality before the law that peaked in the  1960s  .
In many situations it took the form of campaigns of civil  प्रतिरोध  aimed at achieving change by nonviolent forms of resistance .
In some situations it was accompanied , or followed , by civil unrest   and armed rebellion .
The process was long and tenuous in many countries , and many of these movements did not fully achieve their  लक्ष्य  although , the efforts of these movements did lead to improvements in the legal rights of previously oppressed groups of people .
The main aim of the civil rights movement included , and  शामिल  , ensuring that the rights of all people are equally protected by the law , including the rights of minorities .
Civil rights movements  ranging  from the global LGBT rights movement to the global Women 's rights movement to various racial minority rights movements around the world continue .
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA  संसार कप , the  world championship for men 's national association football teams .
It took place in  दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी  from 11 June to 11 July 2010 .
The bidding process for  होस्टिंग  the tournament finals was open only to African nations ; in 2004 , the international football federation , FIFA , selected South Africa over Egypt and Morocco to become the first African nation to host the finals .
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the  country , with the final played at the Soccer City  stadium in South Africa 's largest city , Johannesburg .
Thirty-two teams were selected  लिये भागीदारी via  a worldwide qualification tournament that began in August 2007 .
In the first round of the tournament finals , the teams competed in round-robin groups  of four teams for points , with the top  two teams in each group proceeding .
These sixteen teams advanced to the knockout stage , where three rounds of play decided which teams would participate  in  the final .
In the final , Spain , the European champions , defeated third-time finalists the Netherlands 1–0 after extra time , with Andrés Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain  उनके पहला संसार शीर्षक , बनने  the eighth nation to win the tournament , and the first European nation to win the tournament outside its home continent .
Host nation South Africa  , 2006 संसार champions इटली और 2006  runners-up France were all eliminated in the first round of the tournament .
It was the first time that the  होस्ट यहूद eliminated  in the first round .
New Zealand with their three draws were the only undefeated team in the  टूर्नामेंट ,  but were also eliminated in the first round .
The McMuffin is a family of breakfast sandwiches in various sizes and configurations ,  बेची by the  fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's .
The Egg McMuffin is the signature breakfast sandwich ; it was invented by the  late  McDonald 's franchisee Herb Peterson in the late 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972 .
John Lennon was an English musician who gained  विश्वव्यापी कीर्ति as एक of  the founders of The Beatles , for his subsequent solo career , and for his political activism and pacifism .
He  थी शॉट by  Mark David Chapman at the entrance of the building where he lived , The Dakota , in New York City on 8 December 1980 .
Lennon had just returned from Record  संयंत्र  Studio with his wife , Yoko Ono .
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center , where it was stated  कि nobody could have जिया  for more than a few minutes after sustaining such injuries .
Shortly after local  न्यूज  stations reported Lennon 's death , crowds gathered at Roosevelt Hospital and in front of the Dakota .
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale , New York ; the ashes were given  to Ono , who chose not  to hold a funeral for him .
The  पहला  report of Lennon 's death to a U.S. national audience was announced by Howard Cosell , on ABC 's Monday Night Football .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a  प्रमुख  United States port and the largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana .
The  जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर थी 343,829 as of the 2010 u.S. जनसांख्यिकी .
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest  in  the United States .
The New  orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त  Statistical Area , a larger trading area , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans , a city located on the Loire River in Centre , France , and is  खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके  distinct French Creole architecture , as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage .
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine , music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ) , and its annual celebrations and festivals  , most  notably Mardi Gras .
The city is often referred to as the   `` most unique '' in America .
New Orleans is located  in  southeastern Louisiana , straddling the Mississippi River .
The city and Orleans  मोहल्ला  ( ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north , St. Bernard to the east , Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson  to the दक्षिण  and west .
Lake Pontchartrain , part of which is included in the city  हद , झूठ to  the north and Lake Borgne lies to the east .
The  संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय  election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 5 , 1968 .
The Republican nominee , former Vice-President Richard Nixon , won the election over the Democratic  nominee , लाज़िम  Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised to restore law and order to the nation  's  cities , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics  for 36 years  .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide , the  चुनाव  saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years .
It was a wrenching national experience , conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King , Jr. , and subsequent race riots across the nation , the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy , widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses , and violent confrontations between police  और anti-war प्रदर्शनकारियों at the 1968 लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल  Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
The election featured the strongest third party effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor  जार्ज वालेस  , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to  समाप्त स्कूल पृथक्करण , he carried  the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This was  the पिछला चुनाव in जिससे  New York had the most votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census , California gained the most electoral votes and has  remained  the most populous state since then .
This  is the नवीनतम  election where a presidential ticket won without carrying the vice presidential candidate 's home state .
Karak ( ; also known as Garak , Garrak , and Gorg ) is a village in  gamasiyab  Rural District , in the Central District of Nahavand County , Hamadan Province , Iran .
At the 2006 census , its population was 294  ,  in 65 families .
कर्ट  's signature
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 – April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician  and artist ,  best known as the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen ,  वॉशिंगटन in 1985 और स्थापित  it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with  `` Smells Like Teen  Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X , and Cobain  hailed as `` the प्रवक्ता  of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and artistic  दृष्टि to  have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's  दर्शक  with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness and  अवसाद  .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife  ,  musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain  थी मिला  dead at his home in Seattle , the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a topic of public   fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with Cobain  as a songwriter , has  sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman engaged with the construction and  मेंटेनेंस of मशीनरी  .
More generally in the English speaking world , early millwrights were specialist carpenters who erected machines used in  कृषि  , food processing and processing lumber and paper .
In the early part of the Industrial  क्रान्ति ,  their skills were pressed into service building the earliest powered textile mills .
Modern millwrights work with steel and other materials in addition to wood and must often combine the skills of several skilled trades in order to  सफलतापूर्वक fabricate  industrial machinery or to assemble machines from pre-fabricated parts .
the आधुनिक millwright जरूर भी be समर्थ to पढ़ा blueprints और अन्य schematics to सहायता उसे in the निर्माण of जटिल प्रणालियों .
Millwrights are frequently unionized ,   with around 45 % unionized in the US , although experienced millwrights often set themselves up as independent contractors .
The Adjustment Bureau is a 2011 American romantic action thriller film loosely based on the Philip K. Dick short  स्टोरी  , `` Adjustment Team `` .
The film was written and directed by  जार्ज  Nolfi and stars Matt Damon and Emily Blunt .
The cast also includes Anthony Mackie , John Slattery   , Michael Kelly , and Terence Stamp .
the स्कोर थी रचित  by Thomas Newman , with two songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` Future 's Bright '' for the opening sequence ; `` Are You Ready ? '' for the closing credits ) .
Sodium azide is the inorganic compound with the  सूत्र nan3  .
This colorless  salt  is the gas-forming component in many car airbag systems .
It is used for  the  preparation of other azide compounds .
It is an ionic substance ,  is अत्यधिक घुलनशील  in water , and is very acutely toxic .
Double rainbow and supernumerary rainbows  on  the inside of the primary arc .
The shadow of the photographer 's head on the bottom marks the centre of the rainbow  वृत्त  ( antisolar point ) .
A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by reflection of light in  जल droplets in  the Earth 's atmosphere , resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky .
It takes the form of a   multicoloured arc .
Rainbows caused by sunlight always appear in the section of sky directly opposite the sun   .
In a `` primary rainbow '' , the arc shows red on the outer part and violet on  the  inner side .
This rainbow is caused by light being refracted while entering a droplet of water  , तब reflected  inside on the back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it .
In a double rainbow , a second arc is seen outside the primary arc , and has the order of its colours reversed  , red facing toward the other one  , in both rainbows .
This second rainbow is caused by light reflecting twice inside water  droplets  .
The Conservative Party , officially the Conservative and Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory Party  or the tories , is  a centre-right political party in the United Kingdom that espouses the philosophies of conservatism and British unionism .
it is the largest political party in the United Kingdom , being the largest single party in the House of Commons with 303 MPs , the  largest  party in local government with 9,391 councillors , and the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs .
It governs in coalition  साथ  the Liberal Democrats , with party leader David Cameron as Prime Minister .
The Conservative  Party  was founded in 1834 , and was one of two dominant parties in the 19th century , along with the Liberal Party .
It changed  इसके  name to the Conservative and Unionist Party in 1912 after merging with the Liberal Unionist Party , although that name is rarely used and it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative Party .
In the 1920s , the Liberal vote greatly diminished and the Labour Party  became the  Conservatives ' main rivals .
Conservative Prime Ministers  led सरकारें लिये 57 सालो of the  20th century , including Winston Churchill ( 1940–45 , 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ) .
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic liberalisation and saw the  conservatives become the  most eurosceptic of the three major parties .
The party was returned to government in  गठबन्धन , having विफल to जीत  a majority , in 2010 under the more `` liberal '' leadership of David Cameron .
In the European Parliament , the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs , who sit with the soft eurosceptic European Conservatives and Reformists ( ECR ) parliamentary group , while the party itself is a  सदस्य of the गठबंधन of यूरोपीय  Conservatives and Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty .
वे हैं the third-largest पार्टी in the स्कॉटिश पार्लियामेंट और second-largest in the वेल्श सभा  .
They were formally allied to the  ulster यूनियनिस्ट  Party ( UUP ) as part of the Ulster Conservatives and Unionists arrangement , with the UUP currently participating in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive .
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose final , and perhaps most recognizable , line-up  comprised बेयोंस नॉलेस  , Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams .
Formed in 1990  in Houston , Texas , Destiny 's Child  members began their musical endeavors as Girl 's Tyme comprising , among others , Knowles , Rowland , LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett .
After years of limited success , they  were  signed to Columbia Records as Destiny 's Child .
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream recognition following the release of their best-selling second album , The Writing 's on the Wall , which contained the number-one singles  `` बिल्स , बिल्स  , Bills `` and `` Say My Name `` .
Despite critical and commercial success , the group was plagued by internal  conflict and legal  turmoil , as Roberson and Luckett attempted to split from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles , citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland , his daughter and niece , respectively .
Both  roberson  and Luckett were soon replaced with Williams and Farrah Franklin ; however , in 2000 , Franklin was dismissed , leaving them as a trio .
Their third album ,  उत्तरजीवी , जिससे contains विषयवस्तु the पब्लिक interpreted as a चैनल to the समूह 's अनुभव , contains the विश्वव्यापी हिट्स `` स्वतंत्र महिलाओं `` , `` उत्तरजीवी `` और `` bootylicious `` .
In  2002 , वे  announced a hiatus and re-united two years later for the release of their fourth studio album , Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ) .
Destiny  's  Child has sold more than 50 million records worldwide to date .
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one of the greatest musical trios of all time , the ninth most successful artist/band of the 2000s , and placed the group 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists   list in 2008 .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United States federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services headquartered in Druid Hills , unincorporated DeKalb County , Georgia  , in Greater  Atlanta .
It works to protect public health and safety by providing   information to enhance health decisions , and it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations .
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention  and  control ( especially infectious diseases and foodborne pathogens and other microbial infections ) , environmental health , occupational safety and health , health promotion , injury prevention and education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States .
The CDC is the United States ' national public health institute and is a founding member of the International Association of National Public   Health Institutes .
Earthquake prediction `` is usually defined as the specification of the time , location ,  और परिमाण  of a future earthquake within stated limits '' , and particularly of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in a region . ''
इस can be विशिष्ट इससे भूकंप forecasting , जिससे is the probabilistic मूल्यांकन of सामान्य भूकंप जोखिम , सहित the आवृत्ति और परिमाण of damaging भूकंप , in a दिए क्षेत्रफल over अवधि of  years or decades .
This can be further distinguished from real-time earthquake warning systems , which , upon detection of a severe earthquake , can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning   of potentially significant shaking .
To be useful , an earthquake prediction must be precise enough to warrant the cost of increased precautions , including disruption of ordinary activities and commerce , and timely  पर्याप्त  that preparation can be made .
Predictions must also be reliable , as  false alarms  and cancelled alarms are not only economically costly , but seriously undermine confidence in , and thereby the effectiveness of , any kind of warning .
With over 7,000 earthquakes around the world each year with a magnitude of 4.0 or greater , trivial success in earthquake  भविष्यवाणी is easily प्राप्त using fear व्यापक  parameters of time , location , or magnitude .
However , such  नगण्य ``  successful predictions '' are not useful .
Major earthquakes are often followed by reports  that they were predicted , or at  least anticipated , but no claim of a successful prediction of a major earthquake has survived close inquiry .
In the 1970s there was intense optimism amongst scientists that some method of predicting earthquakes might be found , but by the 1990s continuing failure led many  वैज्ञानिकों to सवाल whether it थी भी  possible .
While many scientists still hold that , given enough resources , prediction might be possible , many others maintain that earthquake prediction is  inherently  impossible .
Deborah Ann ``  debby '' रयान  ( born May 13 , 1993 ) is an American actress , singer , musician , songwriter and record producer .
Ryan is best known for starring as Bailey Pickett in the Disney Channel  Original Series The  Suite Life on Deck .
In 2008 , The Suite Life on Deck ranked as TV 's  top series  among kids 6-11 and the No . 2 scripted series among tweens 9-14 .
Ryan started acting in professional theatres at the age of seven ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney :  let 's go to the फायरहाउस  and then was discovered in a nationwide search by Disney .
She is also known for appearing in the 2008 feature film  the longshots  as Edith .
In 2009 , she guest starred in an episode of Wizards of Waverly Place in Wizards on Deck with Hannah Montana  as  Bailey Pickett along with her other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck .
Then , in 2010 , she starred in the film 16 Wishes , which  थी the  most watched cable program on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel .
16 बधाइयां introduced रयान to नई ऑडियंस ; the फिल्म प्राप्त ऊँची viewership in the वयस्कों जनसांख्यिकी ( 18-34 )  .
Soon after that , Ryan  स्ट्रक्चर in the स्वतंत्र  theatrical film , What If ... , which premiered on August 20 , 2010 .
Ryan also starred in the new Disney Channel Original movie , Radio Rebel , where she portrays the role of Tara  Adams , a shy  17-year-old girl who adopts the radio personality , Radio Rebel .
Released  फ़रवरी  17 , 2012 .
Ryan stars in the titular role in the Disney Channel Original Series   , Jessie .
Stührling  tourbillon गति  ( ) .
In horology , a  tourbillon  ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an addition to the mechanics of a watch escapement .
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis Breguet from an earlier idea by the English chronometer maker John Arnold , a tourbillon aims to counter the effects of gravity by mounting the escapement and balance wheel  in a rotating cage , to negate the effect of gravity when  the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position .
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy , tourbillons are still included in  कुछ महंगी आधुनिक  watches as a novelty and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity .
The mechanism is usually exposed on the  देखें  's face to show it off .
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is a software component used for the installation , maintenance ,  और हटाना of तन्त्र  on modern Microsoft Windows systems .
The installation information , and often the files themselves , are packaged in installation packages , loosely  रिलेशनल  databases structured as COM Structured Storages and commonly known as `` MSI files '' , from their default file extension .
Windows Installer contains significant changes from   its predecessor , Setup API .
New  सुविधाएँ शामिल  a GUI framework and automatic generation of the uninstallation sequence .
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone  executable installer frameworks  such as older versions of InstallShield and NSIS .
microsoft encourages तीसरा पार्टियों to उपयोग खिड़कियाँ installer as the आधार लिये संस्थापना frameworks , so कि वे synchronize correctly साथ अन्य installers और रखना the आतंरिक डेटाबेस of संस्थापित  products consistent .
Important features such as rollback and versioning depend on a consistent internal  डेटाबेस  for reliable operation .
Furthermore ,  खिड़कियाँ installer facilitates the principle of तनिक विशेषाधिकार by performing तन्त्र संस्थापना by प्रॉक्सी लिये unprivileged उपयोक्ता .
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages , originally marketed as energy drinks , sold by Phusion Projects of Chicago  ,  Illinois .
Phusion  operates  as Drink Four Brewing Company .
Four  Loko ,  the company 's most popular beverage , debuted in the United States market in 2005 .
It   is now sold in 48 states , and in Canada , The Bahamas , Bolivia , Honduras , and Europe .
The name `` Four  ''  is derived from the original energy drink 's four main ingredients : alcohol , caffeine , taurine , and guarana .
Four branded products have been the object of legal ,   ethical , and health concerns related to the company allegedly marketing them to the underaged and the purported danger of combining alcohol and caffeine .
After the  पेय थी  banned in several states , a product reintroduction in December 2010 removed caffeine , taurine , and guarana as ingredients , and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink .
The neck of a guitar showing the nut ( in the  पृष्ठभूमि  , coloured white ) and first four metal frets .
A fret is a raised element on the neck of a stringed   instrument .
Frets usually extend across the full  चौडाई of  the neck .
On most modern western fretted  यंत्र  , frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard .
On some historical instruments and non-European instruments , frets are made of pieces of string tied around the   neck .
Frets divide  the गर्दन  into fixed segments at intervals related to a musical framework .
On instruments such  as guitars , प्रत्येक fret represents एक semitone in the मानक पश्चिमी प्रणाली जहाँ एक अष्टक is विभाजित into बारह semitones .
Fret is often used as a verb , meaning  simply `` to  press down the string behind a fret . ''
Fretting often refers to the frets and/or their system   of placement .
वहीँ थी खपत of दारू दोनो दौरान और बाद निषेध .
the  18th Amendment prohibited the production , distribution and sale of alcoholic beverages in the United States and was widely supported by the American public when it went into effect in 1920 .
The temperance movement had popularized the belief that alcohol was the major cause of most personal and social   problems and prohibition was seen as the solution to the nation 's poverty , crime , violence , and other ills .
Upon ratification of  the amendment , the प्रसिद्ध इंजीलवादी बिली  Sunday said that `` The slums will soon be only a memory .
We will turn our prisons into factories and our jails  into storehouses  and corncribs . ''
( Compare Christianity and  दारू  . )
Since alcohol was to be banned and since it was seen as the cause of most , if not all , crime ,  कुछ समुदायों  sold their jails .
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United States Congress confidently asserted that `` There is as  much मौका of repealing the eighteenth amendment as  there is for a hummingbird to fly to the planet Mars with the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American  English ) , ( SI unit  symbol : m ; SI dimension symbol : L ) , is the fundamental unit of length in the International System of Units ( SI ) .
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's  equator  to the North Pole ( at sea level ) , its definition has been periodically refined to reflect growing knowledge of metrology .
Since 1983 , it has been defined as `` the length of the path travelled by light in vacuum during a time interval of  1/299,792,458  of a second . ''
Geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary rocks in Makhtesh Gadol , Negev   Desert , Israel
geologists explaining the महत्व of volcanic राख परतों to विद्यार्थी on फ़ील्ड in आइसलैंड
a भूवैज्ञानिक is a वैज्ञानिक जो अध्ययन the ठोस और द्रव पदार्थ कि constitutes the धरती as खूब as the प्रक्रियाओं और इतिहास  that has shaped it .
Geologists usually engage in   studying geology .
geologists  , studying more of an applied science than a theoretical one , must approach Geology using physics , chemistry and biology as well as other sciences .
Geologists , compared to scientists engaged in other fields , are generally more exposed to the outdoors than staying in laboratories ; although some   geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab .
Geologists are engaged in exploration for mining companies in  ढूंढें  of metals , oils , and other Earth resources .
They are also in the forefront of natural hazards and disasters warning and mitigation , studying earthquakes , volcanic activity , tsunamis , weather storms , and the like ; their studies are used to warn the general public of the  occurrence  of these events .
फिलहाल  , geologists are also engaged in the discussion of climate change , as they study the history and evidence for this Earth process .
Below is a comprehensive drill and tap size chart   for all drills , imperial and metric , and taps up to 36.5 mm .
Modern vacuum tubes , mostly  miniature  style
In electronics , a vacuum tube , electron tube ( in North America ) , thermionic valve  , ट्यूब , or  valve is a device controlling electric current through a vacuum in a sealed container .
the संग्राहक is प्रायः पतला पारदर्शी कांच in a roughly बेलनाकार आकार .
The simplest vacuum tube , the diode , is essentially an  incandescent  light bulb with an added electrode inside .
When the bulb 's  फिलामेंट is heated  white-hot , electrons are `` boiled '' off its surface and into the vacuum inside the bulb .
If the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` anode '' -- is made more positive than the hot filament , a direct current flows through the  vacuum to the electrode ( a demonstration of the Edison  effect ) .
As the current only flows in one direction , it makes it possible to convert an alternating current applied to the filament to direct  वर्तमान  .
The introduction of a  तीसरा एलेक्ट्रोड  , a grid between the filament and the plate , yields another function .
A  वोल्टेज  applied to the grid controls the current flowing from the filament to the plate .
Thus , it allows the device to   be used as an electronic amplifier .
Vacuum   tubes are thus used for rectification , amplification , switching , or similar processing or creation of electrical signals .
The vast majority of modern day tubes consist of a sealed container with a vacuum inside , and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode  heated by  the filament .
Some exceptions to this are dealt with in  the  section about gas-filled tubes below .
Vacuum tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology , which drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting , television , radar , sound reinforcement , sound recording and reproduction , large telephone networks , analog and digital  कंप्यूटर  , and industrial process control .
Although some applications had counterparts using earlier technologies such as the spark gap transmitter or  mechanical कंप्यूटर  , it was the invention of the vacuum tube with three electrodes ( called a triode ) and its capability of electronic amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical .
In most applications ,  solid-state  devices such as transistors and other semiconductor devices have replaced tubes .
Solid-state devices last  longer  and are smaller , more efficient , more reliable , and cheaper than tubes .
Tubes can be fragile , sometimes generate significant unwanted heat , and can take many seconds—many minutes in critical applications—after powering on to  warm to a temperature where  they perform within operational tolerance .
However , tubes still find uses where solid-state devices have not been developed , are  अव्यवहारिक , or जहाँ a ट्यूब रै श्रेष्ठ  performance , as with some devices in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters .
Tubes are still produced for such  अनुप्रयोग  .
Tubes are less likely than semiconductor devices to be destroyed by  the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  pulse produced by nuclear explosions and geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares .
skittles  is a brand of fruit-flavoured sweets , currently produced and marketed by the Wm . Wrigley Jr. Company , a division of Mars , Inc .
They  have  hard sugar shells which carry the letter S .
the अंदर  is mainly sugar , corn syrup , and hydrogenated palm kernel oil along with fruit juice , citric acid , and natural and artificial flavours .
The  confectionery  has been sold in a variety of flavour collections , such as Tropical and Wild Berry .
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill , ( 30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965 ) was a British politician who was the Prime Minister of  the संयुक्त  Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955 .
widely regarded as एक of the महानतम wartime नेताओ of the 20th सदी , चर्चिल थी भी an अधिकारी in the अंग्रेजों फौज , a इतिहासकार , a लेखक  , and an artist .
He is the only British Prime Minister in  history to have received  the Nobel Prize in Literature , and was also the first person to be made an Honorary Citizen of the United States .
Churchill was born into an aristocratic family as the grandson of the 7th Duke of  marlborough  .
His father , Lord Randolph  चर्चिल , थी a charismatic राजनेता  who served as Chancellor of the Exchequer ; his mother , Jennie Jerome , was an American socialite .
As a young army officer , he saw action in British India , The Sudan , and the Second  बोअर  War .
He  gained कीर्ति as a युद्ध correspondent और लिखा किताबे परिचय उसके अभियान .
At the forefront of politics for fifty  सालो , he आयोजित अनेक  political and cabinet positions .
Before the First World War , he served as President of the Board of Trade , Home Secretary , and First Lord of the Admiralty as  part of  the Asquith Liberal government .
During the war , he continued  as  First Lord of the Admiralty until the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign caused his departure from government .
He then briefly resumed active army service on the Western Front as commander of the 6th Battalion of the Royal Scots  fusiliers  .
He returned to government as Minister of Munitions , Secretary of State for War , and  सचिव of राज्य लिये एयर  .
After the War , Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative ( Baldwin ) government of 1924–29 ,  controversially returning  the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity , a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy .
Also controversial was his opposition to increased home rule for India and his resistance  to the  1936 abdication of Edward VIII .
Out of office and politically `` in the wilderness '' during the 1930s , Churchill took the  lead in  warning about Nazi Germany and in campaigning for rearmament .
On the outbreak of the Second World War , he was again  नियुक्त  First Lord of the Admiralty .
Following the resignation of   Neville Chamberlain on 10 May 1940 , Churchill became Prime Minister .
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat , surrender , or a compromise peace helped inspire British resistance ,  विशेषकर  during the difficult early days of the War when Britain stood alone among European countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler .
Churchill was particularly noted for his speeches and radio broadcasts  ,  which helped inspire the British people .
he led  Britain as Prime Minister until victory over Nazi Germany had been secured .
After the Conservative Party lost the 1945 election , he became Leader of the Opposition to  the  Labour ( Attlee ) government .
After winning the  1951  election , he again became Prime Minister , before retiring in 1955 .
Upon his death , Elizabeth II granted him the honour of a state funeral , which saw one of the largest assemblies of world statesmen in  इतिहास  .
Named the Greatest Briton of all time in a 2002 poll , Churchill  is  widely regarded as being among the most influential people in British history .
Ruby Gloom is an animated television show  आधारित  on an apparel franchise .
The show is produced by Nelvana and began airing on October  13 , 2006  in Canada on the network YTV .
It stars the voices of Sarah Gadon , Emily  हैम्पशायर , और  Peter Keleghan .
The  घाट  Focus is a compact car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the Ford Motor Company since 1998 .
Ford began sales of the Focus to Europe in  July  1998 and in North America during 1999 for the 2000 model year .
In Europe , South America , North America and South Africa , the Focus  replaced the various  versions of the Ford Escort sold in those markets .
in एशिया और australasia , it replaced the घाट लेज़र .
As of the first half of 2012 , the Focus surpassed the Toyota Corolla to  become the संसार  's best selling automobile nameplate .
the फ़ोकस रै महरूम माना एक of the 50 महानतम गाड़ियाँ of the पास्ट पचास सालो by अंग्रेजों पत्रिका car .
An agar plate -- an example   of a bacterial growth medium .
Specifically , it is a streak plate ; the orange lines and dots are formed by  बैक्टीरियल colonies  .
A growth medium or culture medium is   a liquid or gel designed to support the growth of microorganisms or cells , or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens .
There are different types of media for growing   different types of cells .
There are two major types of growth media : those used  for cell culture , which use  specific cell types derived from plants or animals , and microbiological culture , which are used for growing microorganisms , such as bacteria or yeast .
The most common growth media for microorganisms are nutrient broths and agar plates ; specialized media are sometimes  जरूरी  for microorganism and cell culture growth .
Some organisms , termed fastidious organisms , require specialized  environments  due to complex nutritional requirements .
Viruses , for example , are obligate intracellular parasites and require a growth medium containing  जीना  cells .
A talent agent , or booking agent , is a person who finds jobs for actors , authors , film directors , musicians  , models , producers , professional athletes  , writers and other people in various entertainment businesses .
An agent also defends , supports and  promotes the  interest of his/her clients .
Agents can not produce  उनके  own shows due to conflict of interest .
A talent agent  जरूर be परिचित  with their clients .
An agent has to know what kind of work the client  can और can  not do in order to match them with various jobs .
Having an agent is not required , but does help the artist in  getting  jobs .
In  अनेक मामले ढलाई  directors , or other businesses , go to talent agencies to find artists they are looking for .
The agent is paid a percentage of the star 's earnings ( typically  10 %  ) .
एजेंटों sometimes होगा be referred to as `` 10 percenters . ''
There  हैं अलग regulations कि govern  different types of agents that are established by artist 's unions and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates .
There are also  पेशेवर  organizations that license talent agencies .
Since the decline in viewership in theaters , from the 1950s to 1960s , this caused a monumental shift  in कैसा studios होता  produce films and thus reducing the cost of exclusive and expensive actors .
Actors and actresses were working for the studios   but were not owned by one major studio entity and so were able to work on within their time and with other studios .
Because  of  this , agents were now seen as a necessity instead of an option .
Agents now became  तीसरा पार्टियों कि negotiated  between studios and clients , this making their services imperative between each party .
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts , all  हुनर एजेंसियों जरूर  be licensed under special sections of the California Labor Code , which calls an agent a `` person or corporation who engages in the occupation of procuring , offering , promising , or attempting to procure employment for artist or artists . ''
Mars has two known moons , Phobos and Deimos , which  हैं विचार to  be captured asteroids .
Both satellites were discovered in 1877 by Asaph Hall and are named after the characters Phobos ( panic/fear ) and Deimos ( terror/dread ) who , in Greek  mythology  , accompanied their father Ares , god of war , into battle .
एरीस थी ज्ञात as मंगल to the romans .
It is possible that Mars may have moons  smaller  than 50 - 100 meters and a dust ring between Phobos and Deimos may be present but none have been discovered .
In law enforcement parlance , the term murder book refers to the case file of a murder  छानबीन  .
Typically , murder books  शामिल  crime scene photographs and sketches , autopsy and forensic reports , transcripts of investigators ' notes and witness interviews .
The murder book encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder investigation  , from the time  the murder is first reported through the arrest of a suspect .
Law enforcement  एजेंसियों typically गार्ड हत्या  books carefully , and it is unusual for civilians to be given unfettered access to these kinds of records , especially for unsolved cases .
A melon  baller
Melon balls are  balls  of melon made using a melon baller that varies from around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters ( about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ) .
They  हैं  generally used in fruit salad .
A KSA , or Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities , is a series of narrative statements that are required when applying to United States  संघीय सरकारी  job openings .
KSAs are used to determine , along with resumes , who the best applicants are when several candidates  qualify लिये a जॉब .
The knowledge , skills and abilities ( KSAs ) necessary for the successful  performance of a position are  contained on each job vacancy announcement .
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked federal agencies to stop   requiring job applicants to fill out the questionnaires , to be phased out within a year .
KSAs are brief and focused essays about one 's career and educational background that presumably qualify one to perform the duties of the position   being applied for .
A knowledge , skills , and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay about one 's talent and expertise and related experiences ( work , education ,  स्वयंसेवी  ) and accomplishments .
A series of KSA statements are usually required when applying for most federal government  और कुछ राज्य  and city government jobs .
KSAs are used as a  गज to  assess the capabilities of a prospective applicant in terms of likely ability to perform the duties of the job .
Most government hiring  officials  look for a short , crisp and clear KSA that emphasizes results or accomplishments obtained in previous work .
KSA statements   are also known as Evaluation Factors .
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating Factors '' , `` Quality Ranking Factors '' , `` Knowledge , Abilities , skills and Other Characteristics ''   , or `` Job Elements '' .
The  नाम  can be just a name but often it influences content and length of the essay .
Every agency has its own regulations but most of the time the each KSA factor  चाहिए be  1/2 to 11⁄2 pages long .
The below   definitions are defined by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management :
Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities  (  KSAs ) - The attributes required to perform a job and are generally demonstrated through qualifying service , education , or training .
Knowledge - Is a body  of  information applied directly to the performance of a function .
Skill - Is an observable competence to  perform  a learned psychomotor act .
Ability - Is competence to perform an observable behavior or a behavior that results in  an observable  product .
The scoring of KSA essays is based on a scale of  इससे एक to  100 .
Job   applicants must score above 70 to be considered for the position .
High scores are derived  through answering  the KSA question as specifically as possible , providing examples from previous employment or training that clearly demonstrate you meet the qualifications .
जब applying to संघीय सरकारी स्थितियाँ , a संघीय पुनरारंभ is प्रायः जरूरी in जोड to ksa कथन .
सही
Whole grains are cereal grains that contain cereal germ , endosperm , and bran , in contrast to refined grains ,   which retain only the endosperm .
Common whole grains  include:
गेहूं
oat
जौ  - Hulled and Dehulled ( not Pearl )
मक्का
भूरा  rice
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
Sprouted  दाने
buckwheat
Common whole grain   products include:
Whole wheat  आटा
Whole  गेहूं  Bread
पूरे गेहूं पास्ता
Rolled oats or oat  groats
triticale  flour
पॉपकॉर्न
Teff  आटा
Common refined  non-whole  grain products include:
Love Always is the  डेब्यू एल्बम of  American R & B duo K-Ci & JoJo , released on June 17 , 1997 , by MCA Records .
It was recorded at various studios in New York and the Los Angeles area  in 1996  and 1997 .
It was produced by JoJo  और अनेक  others , including DeVante Swing , James Mtume , and Jeff Redd .
The duo were originally a part of Jodeci  before  this album .
The album peaked at sixth on the US  बिलबोर्ड  200 and also appeared on international charts .
the सिंगल `` सब my जीवन  `` charted number one in multiple countries , and all four of the album 's singles peaked above the top 25 in the US Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles .
Love Always was received favorably by critics  , who  praised the brothers ' singing ability and the production .
The album has been certified three times  प्लेटिनम  by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and gold by Music Canada and IFPI Sweden .
As of June 1999 it had sold 2.9 million  नक़ल  in the United States .
A  variable-rate बंधक , adjustable-rate बंधक ( भुजा ) , or ट्रैकर बंधक is a बंधक ऋण साथ the ब्याज रेट on the नोट periodically समायोजित आधारित on an अनुक्रमणिका जिससे reflects the लागत to the lender of उधार on the क्रेडिट बाज़ार .
the ऋण may be offered at the lender 's मानक परिवर्तनीय चूहाe/ आधार  rate .
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index , but where the lender offers no specific link to the underlying market or index the rate can be  बदला at the lender 's  discretion .
The term `` variable-rate  बंधक '' is सबसे आम  outside the United States , whilst in the United States , `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most common , and implies a mortgage regulated by the Federal government , with caps on charges .
In many countries , adjustable rate mortgages are the norm , and in such places   , may simply be referred to as mortgages .
Among the most common indices are the rates on 1-year  constant-maturity  Treasury ( CMT ) securities , the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ) , and the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) .
A few lenders use their own cost of funds as an index , rather than using  अन्य  indices .
This is done to ensure a steady margin for the lender , whose  अपना लागत of funding होगा  usually be related to the index .
Consequently , payments made by the borrower may  बदलें over समय साथ the बदलना  interest rate ( alternatively , the term of the loan may change ) .
This is distinct from the graduated payment mortgage , which offers changing  भुगतान amounts  but a fixed interest rate .
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only mortgage , the fixed rate mortgage , the negative amortization mortgage , and the  balloon payment  mortgage .
Adjustable  दरों  transfer part of the interest rate risk from the lender to the borrower .
They can be used where unpredictable interest rates  make fixed  rate loans difficult to obtain .
The  borrower लाभ if the ब्याज रेट जलप्रपात लकिन loses if the ब्याज रेट increases .
The borrower  लाभ  from reduced margins to the underlying cost of borrowing compared to fixed or capped rate mortgages .
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy , a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy , took place shortly after  मध्यरात्रि  on June 5 , 1968 , in Los Angeles , California , during the campaign season for the United States Presidential election , 1968 .
After winning the California and South Dakota primary elections for the Democratic nomination for President of the United States , Kennedy was shot as he walked  through the kitchen of  the Ambassador Hotel and died in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later .
Sirhan Sirhan , a 24-year-old Palestinian / Jordanian immigrant , was convicted of Kennedy  's हत्या और is सेवारत a जीवन वाक्य  for the crime .
sirhan 's वकील have released कथन claiming प्रमाण कि he थी framed .
The shooting was   recorded on audio tape by a freelance newspaper reporter , and the aftermath was captured on film .
Kennedy 's body lay in repose at  st. पैट्रिक 's  Cathedral in New York for two days before a funeral mass was held on June 8 .
His body was interred near his brother John at Arlington  नेशनल  Cemetery .
His death prompted the protection of presidential  उम्मीदवार  by the United States Secret Service .
Hubert Humphrey went on to win the Democratic nomination for the presidency , but ultimately narrowly lost  the  election to Richard Nixon .
As with his  bhai जोकर 's मौत , bobby  's assassination and the circumstances surrounding it have spawned a variety of conspiracy theories .
As of 2013 Kennedy remains one of only two sitting United States Senators to be assassinated (  the अन्य होने huey long )  .
The Modern Age of Comic  Books is an  informal name for the period in the history of mainstream American comic books generally considered to last from the mid-1980s until present day .
In this period , comic book characters generally became darker and more psychologically complex , creators became better-known and active in changing the industry , independent comics flourished , and  larger प्रकाशन घरों  became more commercialized .
an वैकल्पिक नाम लिये इस काल is the अंधेरा आयु of कॉमिक किताबे , due to the लोकप्रियता और कलाकारी influence of grim शीर्षक , ऐसे as और वॉचमेन  .
When Harry Met Sally ... is a 1989 American romantic comedy film written by Nora  ephron और निर्देशित by  Rob Reiner .
It  सितारों  Billy Crystal as Harry and Meg Ryan as Sally .
The story follows the title  वर्ण  from the time they meet just before sharing a cross-country drive , through twelve years or so of chance encounters in New York City .
The film raises the question `` Can men and women ever just be friends ? '' and advances many ideas about relationships that became household concepts , such as those of the ``  '' girlfriend and  the `` transitional person '' .
The origins of the film came from Reiner 's return to single life  बाद  a divorce .
An interview  ephron  conducted with Reiner provided the basis for Harry .
सैली थी आधारित on ephron और कुछ of उसके मित्रों  .
Crystal came on board and made his own  योगदान to  the screenplay , making Harry funnier .
Ephron supplied the structure of the film with much of the dialogue based on the  real-life friendship  between Reiner and Crystal .
The  साउंडट्रैक  consists of standards performed by Harry Connick , Jr. , with a big band and orchestra arranged by Marc Shaiman .
Connick won his first Grammy Award for Best Jazz Male Vocal  प्रदर्शन  .
Columbia Pictures released the film using the `` platform '' technique , which involved opening it in a  few चुनें शहरों  , letting positive word of mouth generate interest , and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks .
जब हैरी मिले सैली ... grossed a कुल of us $ 92 .8 लाख in उत्तर अमेरिका .
Ephron received a British Academy Film Award ,  an ऑस्कर नामांकन , और a लेखक  Guild of America Award nomination for her screenplay .
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years ... 100 Laughs list of the top comedy films in American cinema and number 60 on  ब्रावो  's `` 100 Funniest Movies '' .
In early 2004 , the film was adapted for the stage in a  उत्पादन  starring Luke Perry and Alyson Hannigan .
200px
हैमबर्गर  Helper is a line of packaged food products primarily consisting of boxed pasta bundled with a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings .
The contents of each box are combined with browned ground beef ,   water and milk to create a complete dish .
The product line also features products with other starches  ऐसे as राइस  or potatoes instead of pasta .
it is  made by General Mills .
हालांकि the क्लासिक boxed हैमबर्गर हेल्पर उत्पाद तभी सप्लाई the मंड मद और the सॉस पैकेट्स , कुछ किस्में of the उत्पाद शामिल मैदान बीफ .
These include a frozen food line , which  सुविधाएँ कुछ of  the brand 's classic varieties in a complete meal kit form , with frozen ground beef and frozen sauce packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag .
There is also   an `` instant '' version of Hamburger Helper containing dehydrated meat , noodles and seasonings in a small pouch , requiring only water to be added .
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping Hand '' , an anthropomorphic animated , four fingered left-hand glove , which appears in the product 's television  commercials और on  the packages .
Ceres as seen with  the हबल  Space Telescope .
It is the only dwarf planet in the asteroid   belt .
Pluto in approximate true colour based on Hubble Space  दूरदर्शी  albedo data
Haumea with its moons , Hiʻiaka and Namaka ( artist 's  धारणा  )
Makemake  ( कलाकार  's conception )
eris  and its moon Dysnomia as seen with the Hubble Space Telescope
A dwarf planet is a  planetary-mass  object that is neither a planet nor a satellite .
More explicitly , the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial body in direct orbit of the Sun that is massive enough for its shape  to be नियंत्रित by gravitation , लकिन कि  unlike a planet has not cleared its orbital region of other objects .
The term dwarf  ग्रह थी अपनाया in  2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies orbiting the Sun , brought about by an increase in discoveries of trans-Neptunian objects that rivaled Pluto in size , and finally precipitated by the discovery of an even more massive object , Eris .
This classification states that bodies large enough to   have cleared the neighbourhood of their orbit are defined as planets , while those that are not massive enough to be rounded by their own gravity are defined as small Solar System bodies .
बौना ग्रह आइये in between .
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized ; it was said to be the `` right decision '' by Mike Brown , who  खोजा और  other new dwarf planets , but has been rejected by Alan Stern , who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990 .
The IAU currently recognizes five dwarf planets in the  Solar  System : , Pluto , , , and .
however  , only two of these bodies , Ceres and Pluto , have been observed in enough detail to demonstrate that they fit the definition .
Eris has been accepted as a dwarf planet because it  is  more massive than Pluto .
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with an absolute magnitude brighter than +1 ( and hence a diameter of ≥838 km assuming a geometric albedo of ≤1 ) are to be named under the  assumption  that they are dwarf planets .
The only two such objects known at  the समय ,  Makemake and Haumea , went through this naming procedure and were declared to be dwarf planets .
It is suspected that  another  hundred or so known objects in the Solar System are dwarf planets .
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire region known as the Kuiper belt is   explored , and that the number may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered .
Individual astronomers recognize several of these ,  और in अगस्त  2011 Mike Brown published a list of 390 candidate objects , ranging from `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets . '
Brown identifies nine known objects – the five  स्वीकृत  by the IAU plus , , , and – as `` virtually certain '' , with another two dozen highly likely , and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total .
The classification of bodies in other planetary systems with the characteristics of dwarf  planets  has not been addressed .
A debit card ( also known as a bank card or check card ) is a plastic payment card that provides the cardholder electronic access to his or her bank account  ( s ) at a  financial institution .
Some cards have a stored value with which a payment is  made , while most relay a  message to the cardholder 's bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account .
The card , where   accepted , can be used instead of cash when making purchases .
In some cases , the primary account number is assigned exclusively for use on the Internet and there is  no शारीरिक कार्ड  .
In many countries , the use of debit cards has become so widespread that their volume has overtaken   or entirely replaced cheques and , in some instances , cash transactions .
The development of debit cards , unlike credit cards and charge cards , has generally been country specific  resulting  in a number of different systems around the world , which were often incompatible .
Since the mid-2000s , a number of initiatives  have अनुमत डेबिट ताश जारी in  one country to be used in other countries and allowed their use for internet and phone purchases .
Unlike credit and charge cards , payments using a debit card are immediately transferred from the cardholder 's designated bank account ,  बजाय  of them paying the money back at a later date .
डेबिट ताश प्रायः  also allow for instant withdrawal of cash , acting as the ATM card for withdrawing cash .
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities  to  customers , where a customer can withdraw cash along with their purchase .
Francois Henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( September 26 , 1914 - January 23 , 2011 ) was an American fitness ,  कसरत , और nutritional  expert and motivational speaker who is sometimes called `` the godfather of fitness '' and the `` first fitness superhero . ''
He described himself as being a  `` sugarholic  '' and a `` junk food junkie '' until he was 15 .
He also had behavioral  समस्याएं ,  but `` turned his life around '' after listening to a public lecture by Paul Bragg , a well-known nutrition speaker .
During his career , he came to believe that the country 's overall health depended   on the health of its population , writing that `` physical culture and nutrition — is the salvation of America . ''
Decades before health and fitness began being promoted by celebrities like Jane Fonda and Richard Simmons , LaLanne was already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of  regular  exercise and a good diet .
He published numerous books on fitness and hosted  a  fitness television show between 1953 and 1985 .
As early as 1936 , at age 21 , he opened one of the nation 's first  फ़िटनेस gyms in ओकलैंड , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , which became a prototype for dozens of similar gyms using his name .
One of his 1950s television exercise programs was aimed  toward  women , whom he also encouraged to join his health clubs .
He  invented a क्रमांक  of exercise machines , including leg-extension and pulley devices .
Besides producing his own series of videos , he coached the elderly and disabled not to forgo exercise , believing it would enable  उन्हें to बढ़ाएँ  their strength .
LaLanne also gained recognition for his success as a bodybuilder , as well as for his prodigious  feats of शक्ति  .
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated , `` That Jack LaLanne 's an animal ! , '' after   LaLanne , at 54 , beat a 21-year-old Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest .
On the occasion of LaLanne 's death , Schwarzenegger credited LaLanne for being `` an apostle for fitness '' by inspiring `` billions all  over the world to  live healthier lives , '' and , as governor of California , had earlier placed him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness .
Steve  रीव्स  credited LaLanne as his inspiration to build his muscular physique while keeping a slim waist .
He was inducted to the California  Hall of  Fame and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Air forces of  सबसे of the देशों  use system similar to Armies .
However , the RAF  और the एयर शक्तियां of अनेक राष्ट्रमंडल  countries , or those formerly under a British influence , use a different set of ranks loosely based on naval equivalents ; Lieutenant , Commander , Captain and Commodore are prefixed for air force use with Flight , Wing , Group and Air , respectively ( the first three being the units that they used to command ) .
Penélope Cruz Sánchez ( ; born April 28 , 1974   ) is a Spanish actress .
हस्ताक्षरित by an एजेंट at आयु 15 , वो बना उसके एक्टिंग डेब्यू at 16 on टेलीविज़न और उसके विशेषता फिल्मी डेब्यू the following साल in jamón , jamón ( 1992 ) , to नाजुक acclaim .
Her  subsequent भूमिकाएँ in the 1990s और 2000s शामिल खोलें अपना आँखें ( 1997 ) , the hi-lo देश ( 1999 ) , the लड़की of अपना सपनो ( 2000 ) और स्त्री on शीर्ष ( 2000 ) .
Cruz achieved recognition for her lead roles in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow   .
She has since built a successful career , appearing in films from a wide range of genres , including the comedy Waking Up in Reno ( 2002 ) , the thriller Gothika ( 2003 ) , the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 )  , and the action adventure  Sahara ( 2005 ) .
She has received critical acclaim for her roles in Volver ( 2006 ) and Nine ( 2009 )  receiving सुनहरी ग्लोब और  Academy Award nominations for each .
She won the  अकादमी पुरस्कार  for Best Supporting Actress in 2008 for Vicky Cristina Barcelona .
She was the first Spanish actress in history to receive an Academy Award and the first Spanish actress to receive  a star at  the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Cruz has  modeled लिये  companies such as Mango , Ralph Lauren and L'Oréal .
Penélope and her  younger  sister Mónica Cruz have designed items for Mango .
वो रै दान दोनो उसके समय और धन to धर्मार्थ .
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India , where she spent one week working for Mother Teresa ; she  donated  her salary from ' to help fund the late nun 's mission .
A  मोम मूर्तिकला of क्रूज़ होगा be लगाई in a प्रीमियर स्पॉट in the grevin मोम संग्रहालय in पेरिस .
File Explorer , previously known as Windows Explorer , is a file manager application and also a navigation tool that is included with releases of the  microsoft  Windows operating system from Windows 95 onwards .
It provides a  आलेखीय  user interface for accessing the file systems .
it  is also the component of the operating system that presents many user interface items on the monitor such as the taskbar and desktop .
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer running ( for example , the File | Run command in Task  मैनेजर on nt-derived संस्करण of  Windows will function without it , as will commands typed in a command prompt window ) .
Located in the C : \Windows directory , it is sometimes referred to as the Windows shell , explorer.exe , or simply  “explorer”  .
The Care Bears are characters created by American   Greetings in 1981 for use on greeting cards .
The original artwork for  the ताश  was painted by artist Elena Kucharik .
In 1983 , Kenner  turned the परवाह  Bears into plush teddy bears .
The Care Bears appeared in their own TV specials called The Care Bears in the Land Without Feelings ( 1983 ) and The  Care  Bears Battle the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ) .
They also had their own television series from 1985 to 1988 , in addition to three feature films : The  Care Bears  Movie ( 1985 ) , Care Bears Movie II : A New Generation ( 1986 ) , and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ) .
Each Care Bear comes in a different color and has a specialized insignia on its belly that  represents  its duty and personality .
This insignia  was  known as their `` tummy symbol . ''
However , the movie Care Bears : Oopsy  करता it !  renamed them `` belly badges '' .
Adding to the Care Bear family are the `` Care Bear Cousins '' , which feature a lion , rabbit , penguin , raccoon , and other  ऐसे पशु निर्मित  in the same style as the teddy bears .
In 2002 , the bears were reintroduced with  नई खिलौने  .
Made by Play-Along Toys , the new toys offered features such as illuminated bellies upon touch , aerobic bears , and  glow-in-the-dark bears  .
As part of this comeback , the Bears have appeared in two computer-animated movies : Care Bears : Journey to Joke-a-lot  ( 2004 ) और the  Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ) .
In 2007 , the franchise   celebrated its 25th anniversary ; another relaunch took place , as well as the release of Care Bears : Oopsy Does It ! .
in mid-2011 , ag घोषित a पुनरुद्धार tv एनिमेटेड श्रेणी titled `` परवाह bears : स्वागत to care-a-lot ``  .
The premiere of the series utilizes `` 30  सालो  of caring '' .
It premiered on The Hub  on  June 2 , 2012 .
As of 2013 , Care Bears merchandise is  स्टिल होने  marketed .
During 2008 and 2009 , Canada 's Cookie Jar Group and France 's MoonScoop Group attempted to acquire the  मताधिकार इससे agc  , with no apparent success .
Interstate 70 ( I-70 ) is an Interstate Highway in the United States that runs from Interstate 15  निकट कोव फोर्ट , यूटा , to a  Park and Ride near Baltimore , Maryland .
It was the first Interstate Highway project in the  संयुक्त  States .
I-70 approximately traces the path of U.S. Route  40 ( और भी  the old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains .
West of the Rockies , the route of I-70  थी  derived from multiple sources .
I-70 is  the पांचवां longest  Interstate Highway , after I-90 , I-80 , I-40 , and I-10 .
The construction of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel as the route passes through the Eisenhower Tunnel , Glenwood Canyon , and the  San  Rafael Swell .
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the highest point along the Interstate   Highway system with an elevation of .
The sections of the  अंतरराज्यीय in मिसौरी  and Kansas have laid claim to be the first interstate in the United States .
Though disputed , the Federal  Highway Administration has  claimed the section of I-70 through Glenwood Canyon , completed in 1992 , was the last piece of the Interstate Highway system , as originally planned , to open to traffic .
Photo of  1999  total eclipse
As seen from the Earth , a solar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes between the Sun and Earth , and the Moon fully  or partially  blocks ( `` occults `` ) the Sun .
This can happen only at  new moon , when  the Sun and the Moon are in conjunction as seen from Earth in an alignment referred to as syzygy .
In a total eclipse , the disk of the Sun is fully obscured by  the  Moon .
In partial and annular eclipses only  भाग  of the Sun is obscured .
If the Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit , a little closer to the Earth , and in the same orbital plane , there would be total solar eclipses every single  month  .
however , the चंद्रमा 's कक्षा is inclined ( tilted ) at अधिक than 5 डिग्री to धरती 's कक्षा around the सूर्य ( देखिए ecliptic ) so इसके छाया at नई चंद्रमा प्रायः चूकें  Earth .
Earth 's orbit is called the ecliptic plane as the Moon 's orbit must  cross  this plane in order for an eclipse ( both solar as well as lunar ) to occur .
In addition , the Moon 's actual orbit is   elliptical , often taking it far enough away from Earth that its apparent size is not large enough to block the Sun totally .
The orbital planes cross each year at a line of nodes resulting in at least  two ,  and up to five , solar eclipses occurring each year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses .
However , total  सौर eclipses  are rare at any particular location because totality exists only along a narrow path on Earth 's surface traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra .
An eclipse is a natural  घटना  .
Nevertheless , in some ancient and modern cultures , solar eclipses have been attributed to supernatural causes or regarded  as  bad omens .
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people who are unaware of its  खगोलीय स्पष्टीकरण , as  the Sun seems to disappear during the day and the sky darkens in a matter of minutes .
Because it is dangerous to look directly at the Sun , observers should use special eye protection or indirect viewing techniques when viewing a partial eclipse , or the partial phases of  a कुल ग्रहण  .
It is safe to view the total phase of a total solar eclipse with the unaided eye and without  सुरक्षा  , however .
लोगों referred to as ग्रहण chasers or umbraphiles होगा सफर to रिमोट स्थितियाँ to observe or गवाह पूर्वानुमानित सेंट्रल सौर eclipses  .
A political party (   from , Genitive partis , `` part '' , `` portion '' ) is a political organization that typically seeks to influence , or entirely control , government policy , usually by nominating candidates with aligned political views and trying to seat them in political office .
Parties participate in electoral campaigns and  शैक्षणिक  outreach or protest actions .
Parties often espouse an ideology or vision , expressed in a party program , bolstered by a written platform with specific goals , forming a coalition among disparate  रूचि  .
The mango is a  मांसल स्टोन फल belonging to the genus mangifera , consisting of numerous तीव्र fruiting पेड़ in the flowering संयंत्र परिवार anacardiaceae .
The mango is native to South Asia  , from where it has  been distributed worldwide to become one of the most cultivated fruits in the tropics .
While other Mangifera  प्रजाति ( e.g . घोड़ा  mango , M. foetida ) are also grown on a more localized basis , Mangifera indica – the 'common mango ' or 'Indian mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions .
it is the नेशनल फल of इण्डिया , पाकिस्तानी और फिलीपीन .
In several cultures , its fruit and leaves are  ritually प्रयुक्त  as floral decorations at weddings , public celebrations and religious ceremonies .
Gill Arnette Byrd , < ref name >  http :  //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/B/ByrdGi00.htm ( born February 20 , 1961 in San Francisco , California ) is a former professional American football player .
He was a two time Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the  सैन डिएगो chargers  after graduating from San Jose State University .
Byrd was inducted into the Chargers Hall of  कीर्ति in  1998 .
He was an All-City running back and defensive back at Lowell High School ( San Francisco ) , helping to lead the Cardinals to the city  चैंपियनशिप  in his senior season of 1978 .
World map  प्रर्दशित  the Tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer ,  भी referred  to as the Northern tropic , is the circle of latitude on the Earth that marks the most northerly position at which the Sun may appear directly overhead at its zenith .
This event occurs  once per year ,  at the time of the June solstice , when the Northern Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun to its maximum extent .
It currently ( Year 2013  ) झूठ at  23° 26′ 15.143′′ north of the Equator .
Its Southern Hemisphere counterpart , marking the most southerly position at which the Sun may appear directly  ओवरहेड  , is the Tropic of Capricorn .
These tropics  हैं  two of the five major degree measures or major circles of latitude that mark maps of the Earth , besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator .
The positions of these circles of latitude ( other than  the  Equator ) are dictated by the tilt of the Earth 's axis of rotation relative to the plane of its orbit .
dvd-video is  a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs , and is currently the dominant consumer video format in Asia , North America , Europe , and Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2  डिकोडर  ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats (  प्रायः multi-channel  formats as described below ) .
Typically , the data rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s ,  और the बिट  rate is usually adaptive .
It was first available for  खुदरा around  1997 .
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo  लाइसेंसिंग निगम लिये a शुल्क of  $ 5,000 .
The specification is not publicly available , because  प्रत्येक सदस्य जरूर चिह्न  a non-disclosure agreement .
Certain information in the DVD Book is proprietary  और गोपनीय  .
In computing and specifically Internet , a leech is one who benefits , usually deliberately , from others ' information or effort but does not offer anything in return , or makes only  टोकन  offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech .
In economics , this type of behavior is called `` free riding '' and is associated with the free  rider  problem .
Depending on context , leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources , but often instead to greedy  उपयोग according to तहज़ीब : to wit , using  too much of what is freely given without contributing a reasonable amount back to the community that provides it .
The name derives from the leech , an animal that sucks  रक्त और  then tries to leave unnoticed .
Other terms are used , such as ``  freeloader ''  , but leech is the most common .
The full eagle logo  ,  used in various versions from 1970 to 1993 .
The United States Postal Service ( USPS ) , also known as the Post Office and U.S. Mail , is an independent agency of the United States federal government responsible for  providing डाक सेवा  in the United States .
It is one of the few government agencies explicitly  प्राधिकृत by the संयुक्त  States Constitution .
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the Second Continental Congress , where Benjamin Franklin  थी नियुक्त  the first postmaster general .
The cabinet-level Post Office Department was created in 1792 from Franklin 's operation and transformed into its current form in 1971 under the Postal   Reorganization Act .
The USPS employs over 574,000 workers  और operates  over 260,000 vehicles .
The USPS is the operator of the largest  गाडी  fleet in the world .
The USPS is  legally obligated to serve  all Americans , regardless of geography , at uniform price and quality .
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` U.S. Mail '' and personal letterboxes in the  United  States , but still competes against private package delivery services , such as UPS and FedEx .
The USPS has not directly received taxpayer-dollars since the early 1980s with the minor exception of subsidies  for costs  associated with the disabled and overseas voters .
Since the 2006 all-time peak mail volume , after which Congress passed the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act `` , ( which mandated $ 5.5 billion per year to be paid into an account  to pre-fund retiree  health-care , 75 years into the future , a requirement unique among organizations and businesses in the U.S. ) , revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume , prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit .
Washington ,  d.C. रै महरूम the पूंजी  of the United States since 1800 .
Eight other cities have served as the meeting place for Congress and are therefore considered to have once been the  capital  of the United States .
In addition , each of   the 50 U.S. states and the five principal territories of the United States maintains its own capital .
Princess cut  डायमंड  set in a ring
The   Princess cut is the second most popular cut shape for diamonds , next to a round brilliant .
The face-up shape of the princess cut is square or rectangular and the profile or side-on shape is similar to that of an  उलट  pyramid with four beveled sides .
The princess cut  is a  relatively new diamond cut , having been created in the 1960s .
it रै gained in लोकप्रियता in हाल सालो as a अधिक distinctive वैकल्पिक to the अधिक लोकप्रिय गोलाकार शानदार काटें , in जिससे the शीर्ष of डायमंड , पुकारा the क्राउन , is काटें साथ a गोलाकार face-up आकार और the नीचे , पुकारा the मण्डप , is तराशा  similar to a cone .
A princess cut with the same  चौडाई  as the diameter of a round brilliant will weigh more as it has four corners which would otherwise have been cut off and rounded to form a round brilliant .
The princess cut is sometimes referred  to as  a square modified brilliant .
however , जबकि displaying the वही ऊँची उपाधि of brilliance , इसके faceting स्टाइल is अद्वितीय और completely अलग इससे कि of a गोलाकार  brilliant .
The Princess  काटें था इसके origins  in the early `` French '' cut , having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` Cross '' cut crown and a series of unique , chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion which combine to give a distinct cross-shaped reflection when the stone is viewed directly through the table .
Effectively , the Princess cut combines the high degree of light return of a  गोलाकार  brilliant cut with a distinctive square or rectangular shape .
The square princess cut diamond is usually slightly cheaper than round brilliant cut diamonds of the same carat weight because it  retains परिचय  80 % of the rough diamond , as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough .
The ability to retain  अधिक क्रिस्टल  weight makes this shape popular amongst diamond cutters .
Accredited Gem Appraisers  (  AGA ) and American Gem Society Laboratory ( AGSL ) and European Gem Laboratories-USA ( EGL-USA ) are currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut .
वहीँ is no सार्वभौमिक परिभाषा of कया माप मेक an आदर्श राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड और अनेक डायमंड निर्माताओं मार्केट आदर्श ईंट साथ differing facet पैटर्न और कोण  as `` ideal cut '' .
In contrast to the AGSL , AGA , and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated that there is not enough industry consensus or empirical data  to बताएँ काटें ग्रेडिंग मानकों  for Princess cut diamonds and to do so is at the risk of consumers who may be deceived by diamonds accompanied by unqualified Ideal or Excellent cut grades .
The name `` Princess Cut '' was originally used in  कनेक्शन साथ another डायमंड काटें , वरना  known as the `` Profile '' cut , designed by Arpad Nagy , a London cutter , in 1961 .
The same name was later used and made popular by Ygal Perlman , Betzalel   Ambar , and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979 .
A  समान काटें साथ तभी 49 facets , as opposed to the असली 58 facets of the राजकुमारी काटें , थी बाद ब्रांडेड the `` quadrillion '' और initially वितरित by ambar ईंट in लॉस एंजिल्स .
Three years of optical  research  yielded a square stone with faceting similar to that of a round brilliant cut diamond .
A  तुलना
The number  of  chevrons can affect the overall outlook of a princess cut diamond .
This can usually be determined by the wire diagram that is  plotted in डायमंड  grading reports .
By adding more chevrons on the   pavilion side of the diamond , the individual facets of the diamond will now be broken down into smaller facets .
As a result , it can give a princess cut  डायमंड a  `` crushed ice '' look .
Vice versa , when a princess cut diamond has lesser chevrons , it tends to give the  डायमंड a चंकी  outlook due to broader facets .
The domestic dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is a subspecies of the gray wolf ( Canis lupus ) , a member of the Canidae family of the mammalian order  Carnivora  .
The term ``  घरेलू श्वान  '' is generally used for both domesticated and feral varieties .
The dog has been the first animal to be  domesticated  and has been the most widely kept working , hunting , and pet animal in human history .
The word `` dog '' may also mean the male of a canine species , as opposed   to the word `` bitch '' for the female of the species .
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 years  ago but , , the  oldest fossil specimens genetically linked to the modern dog 's lineage date to approximately 33,000-36,000 years ago .
Dogs ' value to early human hunter-gatherers led to them quickly becoming ubiquitous across world cultures   .
Dogs perform many roles for people , such as hunting , herding , pulling loads , protection , assisting police and military , companionship , and , more recently , aiding  विकलांग  individuals .
This  प्रभाव on इंसान समाज  has given them the nickname `` Man 's Best Friend '' in the Western world .
In some  संस्कृतियों , कुत्तो  are also a source of meat .
In 2001 , there were  अनुमानित to  be 400 million dogs in the world .
Most breeds of dogs are at most  a few सौ सालो  old , having been artificially selected for particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles .
through इस चयनात्मक प्रजनन , the श्वान रै विकसित into सैंकड़ों of varied breeds , और shows अधिक behavioral और morphological विभिन्नता than कोई अन्य जमीन स्तनधारी .
For  उदाहरण  , height measured to the withers ranges from in the Chihuahua to about in the Irish Wolfhound ; color varies from white through grays ( usually called `` blue '' ) to black , and browns from light ( tan ) to dark ( `` red '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a wide variation of patterns ; coats can be short or long , coarse-haired to wool-like , straight , curly , or smooth .
it  is common for most breeds to shed this coat .
Diagram  of a  transmission electron microscope
A 1973 Siemens electron microscope ,  musée  des Arts et Métiers , Paris
An electron microscope ( EM ) is a type of microscope that uses an electron beam to  illuminate a नमूना  and produce a magnified image .
An EM has greater resolving power than  a light microscope and  can reveal the structure of smaller objects because electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons .
They can achieve better than 50 pm resolution and   magnifications of up to about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary , non-confocal light microscopes are limited by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x .
The electron microscope uses electrostatic and electromagnetic lenses to control the electron   beam and focus it to form an image .
These electron  ऑप्टिकल  lenses are analogous to the glass lenses of a light optical microscope .
Electron microscopes are used to investigate the ultrastructure of a wide range of biological and inorganic   specimens including microorganisms , cells , large molecules , biopsy samples , metals , and crystals .
Industrially , the electron microscope is often used for quality control and failure  विश्लेषण  .
Modern electron microscopes produce electron micrographs ,  using specialized  digital cameras or frame grabbers to capture the image .
popeyes louisiana रसोईघर is a कड़ी of fried मुर्गा तेज़ खाना रेस्तरां संस्थापित in 1972 in नई ऑरलियन्स , louisiana .
Often referred to as Popeyes  and sometimes as Popeyes  Chicken & Biscuits or Popeyes Chicken & Seafood , It was acquired by Sandy Springs , Georgia -based AFC Enterprises , originally America 's Favorite Chicken Company , in 1993 .
According to a company press release dated June 29 , 2007 , Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group , measured by number of units '' , with more than 1,800 restaurants in more than 40 states and the District of Columbia , and over 22 countries worldwide including Turkey , Northern Cyprus , Bahrain , China , Hong Kong , Iraq , Indonesia , Jordan , Kuwait , United Arab Emirates , Japan , Malaysia , Saudi Arabia , South Korea  ,  Singapore , Canada , Jamaica , Guyana , Suriname , Mexico , Trinidad , Puerto Rico , Honduras , Vietnam , Panama , Peru , and Costa Rica .
About  तीस  locations are company-owned , the rest franchised .
The leg press is a weight training exercise in which the individual pushes a weight   or resistance away from them using their legs .
The term   leg press also refers to the apparatus used to perform this exercise .
The leg press can be  used to evaluate an  athlete 's overall lower body strength ( from knee joint to hip ) .
using the  diagonal sled-type leg press machine .
There are two   main types of leg press:
The diagonal or vertical 'sled '  प्रकार लेग  press .
Weight disks ( plates )  हैं  attached directly to the sled , which is mounted on rails .
The   user sits below the sled and pushes it upward with their feet .
These machines normally include adjustable safety  brackets that prevent  the user from being trapped under the weight .
The 'cable ' type leg press , or 'seated leg press ' , commonly   found on multigyms .
The user sits upright and pushes forward with their feet onto a plate that is attached to the  वज़न स्टेक  by means of a long steel cable .
Wendy Williams Hunter ( born Wendy Joan Williams ; July 18 , 1964 ) is an American media  व्यक्तित्व , अभिनेत्री और  author .
She hosts a syndicated television talk show , The Wendy Williams  Show  .
Prior to television , Williams  थी a `` शॉक  jockette `` on several radio shows .
Williams has gained notoriety  लिये उसके  on-air spats with celebrities .
She was  the विषय of the 2006 vh1 वास्तविकता tv श्रेणी पुकारा the वेन्डी विलियम्स अनुभव जिससे ब्रॉडकास्ट कार्यक्रम surrounding उसके रेडियो दिखाएँ .
She has written an  आत्मकथा  and several other books , and has created a product line called Adorn by Wendy Williams .
Patrick Henry `` Treason '' speech before the House of Burgesses in an 1851  पेंटिंग by  Peter F. Rothermel
`` Give me liberty , or give me death ! ''  is a  quotation attributed to Patrick Henry from a speech he made to the Virginia Convention .
On that day , at St. John 's Church in Richmond , Virginia , and is credited with having swung the balance in convincing the Virginia House of Burgesses to pass a resolution delivering the Virginia troops to the Revolutionary  युद्ध  .
among the delegates to the सम्मेलन यहूद भविष्य us राष्ट्रपतियों थामस जेफरसन और जार्ज वॉशिंगटन .
Newfoundland and Labrador ( , locally ) is the  easternmost  province of Canada .
situated in the देश 's अटलांटिक प्रदेश , it incorporates the द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और मेनलैंड labrador to the उत्तरपश्चिम , साथ a संयुक्त क्षेत्रफल of .
In  2011  , the province 's population was 514,536 .
Approximately 92 percent of the province 's population   lives on the Island of Newfoundland ( including its associated smaller islands ) , of which more than half live on the Avalon Peninsula .
The province is Canada  's most  linguistically homogenous , with 97.6 % of residents reporting English ( Newfoundland English ) as their mother tongue in the 2006 census ; .
Historically , Newfoundland was also home to unique varieties  of  French , and Irish , as well as the now-extinct Beothuk language .
In Labrador , local  dialects  of Innu-aimun and Inuktitut are also spoken .
Newfoundland and Labrador 's capital and largest city , St. John 's , is Canada 's 20th-largest Census Metropolitan Area , and  is home  to almost 40 percent of the province 's population .
St. John 's is the seat of government ,  घर  to the House of Assembly of Newfoundland and Labrador and the highest court in the jurisdiction , the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal .
a पूर्व उपनिवेश और डोमिनियन of the संयुक्त किंगडम , न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador became the दसवाँ प्रांत to डालें the कनाडाई कनफेडरेशन on कूच 31 , 1949 , as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड .
On December 6 , 2001 ,  an  amendment was made to the Constitution of Canada to change the province 's official name to Newfoundland and Labrador .
In day-to-day conversation , however , Canadians generally still refer to the province itself as Newfoundland and to the  प्रदेश on the  Canadian mainland as Labrador .
Theodore `` T.R .  ''
Roosevelt , Jr. ( ; October 27 , 1858—January 6 , 1919 )  थी the  26th President of the United States ( 1901–1909 ) .
He is  विख्यात लिये उसके समृद्ध व्यक्तित्व , दायरा of रूचि और उपलब्धियाँ , और उसके नेतृत्व of the प्रगतिशील गति , as खूब as उसके `` काउंटी `` persona और मजबूत मर्दानगी .
He  थी a नेता of the  Republican Party and founder of the first incarnation of the short-lived Progressive ( `` Bull Moose '' ) Party of 1912 .
Before becoming President , he held  कार्यालयों  at the city , state , and federal levels .
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist , explorer , hunter ,  author , and  soldier are as much a part of his fame as any office he held as a politician .
Roosevelt was 42 years old  जब sworn in as  President of the United States in 1901 , making him the youngest president ever ; he beat out the youngest elected president , John F. Kennedy , by only one year .
Roosevelt was also the first of only  तीन बैठे राष्ट्रपतियों  to have won the Nobel Peace Prize .
The Teddy bear is named after him ,   despite his contempt for being called `` Teddy '' .
Born into a wealthy family in New York City , Roosevelt was a sickly child who suffered from asthma and  ठहरे  at home studying natural history .
To overcome his physical weakness  ,  he embraced a strenuous life .
home-schooled , he  became an eager student of nature .
he attended हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों , जहाँ he पढ़ाई जीवविज्ञान , boxed और विकसित an ब्याज in नवल अफेयर्स .
In 1881 , one year out of Harvard , he was elected to the New York State Assembly , where  he became a नेता of  the reform faction of his Republican Party ( the `` GOP '' ) .
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established his professional reputation as a serious historian ; he wrote numerous books on hunting , the outdoors , and current political issues , as well as frontier  इतिहास  .
In 1884 , his  पहला  wife and his mother died on the same day .
He temporarily left politics and went to the frontier ,  बनने a rancher  in the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas .
returning  to New York City , he ran for mayor in 1886 , finishing third with 60,000 votes .
He later gained fame   by taking vigorous charge of the city police .
At  the नेशनल  level , he was a leader in civil service reform .
the spanish–american युद्ध broke आउट in 1898 जबकि रूज़वेल्ट थी , effectively , कार्यशील the विभाग of the नेवी  .
He  फौरन resigned और  formed the Rough Riders – a volunteer cavalry regiment that fought in Cuba .
The war hero was elected governor  in 1898  and in 1900 was nominated for vice president .
He successfully energized the GOP  आधार as a अत्यधिक दृश्य प्रचारक  to reelect President William McKinley on a platform of high tariffs , the gold standard , imperialism , prosperity at home and victory abroad .
In 1901 , President William McKinley was assassinated  and  Roosevelt became President .
He attempted to move the Republican Party ( GOP ) toward Progressivism , including trust  busting और increased विनियमन of व्यवसायों  .
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency  (  from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the death of his predecessor , winning the largest percentage of the popular vote since the uncontested election of 1820 .
रूज़वेल्ट  coined the phrase `` Square Deal `` to describe his domestic agenda , emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies .
As an outdoorsman and naturalist , he promoted the conservation  गति  .
On the world stage   , Roosevelt 's policies were characterized by his slogan , `` Speak softly and carry a big stick `` .
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common ancestor ( s ) (  अन्य  than a parent , child/descendant , sibling , child/descendant of a sibling , or sibling of a parent/ancestor ) .
However in common parlance ,  ``  cousin '' normally specifically means `` first cousin '' .
प्रणालियों of `` डिग्री '' और `` removals '' हैं प्रयुक्त in the english-speaking संसार to describe the सटीक संबंध between दो cousins ( in the व्यापक भाव ) और the पूर्वज वे have in आम .
Various governmental entities have established  प्रणालियों  for legal use that can more precisely specify kinships with common ancestors existing any number of generations in the past , though common usage often eliminates the degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives '' .
Webster is an American situation comedy that aired on ABC from September 16 , 1983 until May 8 , 1987 , and in first-run syndication  from  September 21 , 1987 until March 10 , 1989 .
The series  थी  created by Stu Silver .
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who , after losing his parents , is adopted by his NFL -pro godfather , portrayed by Alex  karras ,  and his new socialite wife , played by Susan Clark .
The focus was largely on how this impulsively married couple  had to  adjust to their new lives and sudden parenthood , but it was the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plot .
The series was produced by Georgian Bay Ltd. , Emmanuel  Lewis  Entertainment Enterprises , Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and Paramount Television .
Like NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes , Webster featured a young  african-american  boy adopted by a white family .
Three  प्रकार  of cell division
Cell division is the process by  जिससे a  parent cell divides into two or more daughter cells .
Cell division usually  occurs as  part of a larger cell cycle .
In eukaryotes , there are two distinct type of cell  प्रभाग : a vegetative प्रभाग  , whereby each daughter cell is genetically identical to the parent cell ( mitosis ) , and a reductive cell division , whereby the number of chromosomes in the daughter cells is reduced by half , to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ) .
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some point in their life cycle , and both are believed to be present in the last eukaryotic common ancestor Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission , where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells   .
All cell divisions , regardless of organism  , हैं preceded  by a single round of DNA replication .
For simple  एककोशिकीय जीवों ऐसे as the amoeba , एक  cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an entire new organism is created .
On a larger scale , mitotic   cell division can create progeny from multicellular organisms , such as plants that grow from cuttings .
Cell division also enables  sexually reproducing  organisms to develop from the one-celled zygote , which itself was produced by cell division from gametes .
और बाद विकास , कोशिका प्रभाग allows लिये continual निर्माण और मरम्मत of the सजीव  .
A human being 's body experiences about 10,000 trillion   cell divisions in a lifetime .
Cell division has been  modeled  by finite subdivision rules .
The primary concern of cell  प्रभाग is the मेंटेनेंस  of the original cell 's genome .
पहले प्रभाग can occur , the  genomic information that is stored in chromosomes must be replicated , and the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between cells .
A great deal of cellular infrastructure is involved in keeping genomic information consistent between  ``  generations '' .
Mountain ranges of Massachusetts   , United States .
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones , 23 February 1955 , Southampton , Hampshire , England ) is a British  musician ,  singer and songwriter .
According to the Guinness  किताब of अंग्रेजों  Hit Singles & Albums , `` Jones is an accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop .
Jones , who was equally popular in the U.S. ,  appeared at सजीव सहायता  `` .
Allmusic  पत्रकार , स्टीफन थामस  Erlewine adds , `` Jones was one of the defining figures of mid-1980s synthpop .
His music merged the technology intensive sound of New Wave with the cheery optimism of hippies and late  1960s  pop .
Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s ,  पहले he retreated  into being a cult figure in the 1990s '' .
The International Isle of Man TT ( Tourist Trophy ) Race  is a  motorcycle racing event held on the Isle of Man and was for many years the most prestigious motorcycle race in the world .
The  इवेंट थी भाग of the  FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix World Championship during the period 1949–1976 before being transferred to the United Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season .
The Isle of Man TT Races became part of the  TT Formula 1  Championship from 1977 to 1990 to preserve the event 's racing status .
From 1989 the racing has been developed by the Isle of Man Department of Tourism  as the आइल of man  TT Festival .
The race is run in a time-trial format on public roads closed   for racing by the provisions of an Act of Tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ) .
The first race was  आयोजित on मंगलवार  28 May 1907 and was called the International Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy .
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 laps of the St John 's Short Course of 15 miles 1,470 yards for road-legal touring motorcycles  साथ exhaust silencers ,  saddles , pedals and mud-guards .
The winner of the single-cylinder class , and overall winner of the first event in 1907 , was Charlie Collier riding a Matchless  मोटरसाइकिल in a समय of 4 घंटों , 8 मिनट्स और  8 seconds at an average race speed of 38.21 mph .
The winner of the twin-cylinder class was Rem Fowler  सवारी a peugeot  engined Norton in a time of 4 hours 21 minutes and 52 seconds at an average race speed of 36.21 mph .
The trophy presented to Charlie Collier as the winner of the 1907 Isle  of man tt रेस ,  was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars .
It featured a stylised version  of  Olympic God Hermes by Giovanni Da Bologna as a silver figurine astride a winged wheel .
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy presented to John  नेपियर  ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural winner of the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy car race in 1905 now known as the RAC Tourist Trophy .
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars  ट्रॉफी  is now presented annually to the winner of the Isle of Man Senior TT Motor-Cycle Race .
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between 26 May  और 8 जून 2007  and featured a special Re-enactment of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race held on the village green next to Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007 .
The vintage parade of 100 classic motorcycles for the Centenary  re-enactment on the असली st जॉन 's छोटी  Course was flagged away by former World Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff Duke .
The first of the participants to be flagged away was the  recently  restored twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during the first Isle of Man TT Race in 1907 .
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race competitor Guy Martin riding a 1938 Triumph Tiger 100 500 cc and other former TT competitors including Alan  cathcart  , Sammy Miller , Nick Jefferies and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap .
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or  joblessness  ) occurs when people are without work and actively seeking work .
The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed  individuals  by all individuals currently in the labor force .
दौरान अवधि of मंदी , an अर्थव्यवस्था प्रायः अनुभवों a अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची बेरोजगारी रेट .
according to अंतरराष्ट्रीय श्रमिक संगठन रपट , अधिक than 197 लाख लोगों globally हैं आउट of कार्य or 6 % of the संसार 's workforce यहूद बगैर a जॉब in 2012 .
There remains considerable  सैद्धांतिक बहस  regarding the causes , consequences and solutions for unemployment .
Classical economics , New classical economics , and the Austrian  स्कूल  of economics argue that market mechanisms are reliable means of resolving unemployment .
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the labor market from the outside , such as unionization , minimum wage laws , taxes , and other  regulations that  they claim discourage the hiring of workers .
Keynesian economics  emphasizes  the cyclical nature of unemployment and recommends government interventions in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions .
इस  theory focuses on recurrent shocks that suddenly reduce aggregate demand for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers .
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers ; these can include financial stimuli , publicly funded  जॉब सृष्टि  , and expansionist monetary policies .
In addition to these  व्यापक theories  of unemployment , there are a few categorizations of unemployment that are used to more precisely model the effects of unemployment within the economic system .
The main types of unemployment include structural unemployment which focuses on structural problems in the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets , including a mismatch between the supply and demand   of laborers with necessary skill sets .
Structural arguments  emphasize  causes and solutions related to disruptive technologies and globalization .
चर्चाएँ of frictional बेरोजगारी फ़ोकस on voluntary निर्णय to कार्य आधारित on प्रत्येक individuals ' valuation of उनके अपना कार्य और कैसा कि compares to वर्तमान मजदूरी दरों प्लस the समय और प्रयत्न जरूरी to  find a job .
Causes and solutions for frictional unemployment often   address job entry threshold and wage rates .
Behavioral economists highlight individual biases in decision making , and often involve problems and solutions  concerning स्टिकी मजदूरी और  efficiency wages .
Collectivism is any philosophic , political , religious , economic  ,  or social outlook that emphasizes the interdependence of every human being in a society or civilization .
collectivism  is a basic cultural element that exists as the reverse of individualism in human nature ( in the same way high context culture exists as the reverse of low context culture ) .
Collectivist orientations stress the  महत्व  of cohesion within social groups ( such as an `` in-group '' , in what specific context it is defined ) and in some cases , the priority of group goals over individual goals .
Collectivists often focus on  जातियाँ  , society , nation or country .
It has been used as an element in many different and diverse types of government and political , economic and educational philosophies throughout history and most human societies in practice  contain elements  of both individualism and collectivism .
Some  उदाहरण  of collectivist cultures include India and Japan .
Collectivism can be divided into horizontal  collectivism  and vertical collectivism .
Horizontal collectivism stresses  सामूहिक decision-making  among equal individuals , and is thus usually based on decentralization and egalitarianism .
Vertical collectivism is  आधारित on  hierarchical structures of power and on moral and cultural conformity , and is therefore based on centralization and hierarchy .
A  सहकारी  enterprise would be an example of horizontal collectivism , whereas a military hierarchy would be an example of vertical collectivism .
Acute disseminated  encephalomyelitis  ( ADEM ) is an immune mediated disease of the brain .
It usually occurs   following a viral infection but may appear following vaccination , bacterial or parasitic infection , or even appear spontaneously .
As it involves autoimmune demyelination , it is similar to multiple sclerosis , and is considered part of the Multiple   sclerosis borderline diseases .
the incidence रेट is परिचय 8 प्रति 1,000,000 लोगों प्रति साल .
Although it occurs in all ages , most reported cases are in children and adolescents , with the average age around 5 to 8  सालो  old .
The mortality rate may be as high as 5 % , full recovery is  देखी in 50  to 75 % of cases , while up to 70 to 90 % recover with some minor residual disability .
The average time to  रिकवर is  one to six months .
ADEM produces multiple  जलन lesions in the  brain and spinal cord , particularly in the white matter .
प्रायः ये हैं मिला in the subcortical और सेंट्रल श्वेत पदार्थ और cortical gray-white जंक्शन of दोनो दिमागी बांटती , cerebellum , brainstem , और स्पाइनल cord , लकिन periventricular श्वेत पदार्थ और धूसर पदार्थ of the cortex , thalami और basal ganglia may भी be शामिल .
When the patient suffers more than one demyelinating episode , it is called recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis  (  MDEM ) .
The stomach  is a muscular , खोखला , dilated  part of the digestion system which functions as an important organ of the digestive tract in some animals , including vertebrates , echinoderms , insects ( mid-gut ) , and molluscs .
It is involved in the second phase of digestion ,  following mastication  ( chewing ) .
The stomach  is  located between the esophagus and the small intestine .
It  secretes protein-digesting एंजाइमों पुकारा protease और  strong acids to aid in food digestion , ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines .
The word stomach is derived from the Latin stomachus which is derived from the Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος ) , ultimately from stoma ( ) , `` mouth  ''  .
The words gastro- and gastric ( meaning related to the stomach ) are both derived from the Greek  शब्द  gaster ( ) .
1940  pontiac  Special Series 25 Woodie
A woodie is a car body style  , विशेषकर  a station wagon , where the rear bodywork is constructed of wood framework with infill panels of wood or painted metal .
After the demise of actual wood  निर्माण  , manufacturers used simulated woodgrain sheet vinyl—sometimes augmented with three-dimensional , simulated framework—to recall wood construction .
In 2008 , wood construction was evoked abstractly on the Ford Flex with a series of side and rear  आड़ा डोले  .
A pearl is a hard object produced within the soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of a living shelled  mollusc  .
Just like the shell of a clam , a pearl is made up of  calcium carbonate in  minute crystalline form , which has been deposited in concentric layers .
The ideal pearl is perfectly round and smooth , but many other shapes of  मोती  ( baroque pearls ) occur .
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly  valued  as gemstones and objects of beauty for many centuries , and because of this , the word pearl has become a metaphor for something very rare , fine , admirable , and valuable .
The most valuable pearls occur spontaneously in the  wild  , but they are extremely rare .
These wild pearls are  referred to  as natural pearls .
Cultured or   farmed pearls from pearl oysters and freshwater mussels make up the majority of those that are currently sold .
Imitation pearls are also widely sold in inexpensive jewelry  , लकिन  the quality of their iridescence is usually very poor , and often , artificial pearls are easily distinguished from genuine pearls .
Pearls  have  been harvested and cultivated primarily for use in jewelry , but in the past they were also stitched onto lavish clothing .
Pearls have also been crushed and  प्रयुक्त  in cosmetics , medicines , and in paint formulations .
Whether wild or cultured , gem quality pearls are almost always nacreous and , as is the interior of   the shell that produces them .
However , almost all species of shelled molluscs are capable of  producing मोती  ( formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape .
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also under U.S.  संघीय व्यापार आयोग  rules , and are formed in the same way , most of them have no value , except as curiosities .
Bing ( known   previously as Live Search , Windows Live Search , and MSN Search ) is a web search engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) from Microsoft .
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on May 28 , 2009 at the   All Things Digital conference in San Diego for release on June 1 .
Notable changes include the listing of search suggestions while queries are entered and  a list of related searches (  called `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset which Microsoft purchased in 2008 .
on जुलाई 29 , 2009 , microsoft और याहू ! घोषित a सौदे in जिससे bing होता शक्ति याहू  ! Search .
All Yahoo ! Search global  ग्राहक  and partners are expected to have made the transition by early 2012 .
In October 2011 , Bing announced it was working on new back-end search  अवसंरचना , साथ the  goal of delivering faster and slightly more relevant search results for users .
Known as `` Tiger '' , the new index-serving technology has been incorporated into Bing  globally , चूंकि अगस्त 2011  .
In May 2012 , Bing announced  another redesign of इसके ढूंढें इंजन  that includes `` Sidebar '' , a social feature that searches users ' social networks for information relevant to the search query .
A diagram showing an I Formation on offense  और a 4-3 गठन on  defense
In American football , each team has  ग्यारह  players on the field at one time .
The specific role that a player takes on the  फ़ील्ड  is called their position .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions , that is  टीमों  may change any number of players after any play .
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players , the offense ( the  टोली साथ  the ball , who is trying to score ) , the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring , and to take the ball from them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons , various specific positions exist depending on what the  खिलाड़ी 's प्रमुख  job is .
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ; Ulster-Scots : Airish fowk ) are an ethnic group who originate in  आयरलैंड  , an island in northwestern Europe .
Ireland has been populated for around  9,000 सालो  ( according to archaeological studies , see Prehistoric Ireland ) .
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they are   claimed to be descended from groups such as the Nemedians , Fomorians , Fir Bolg , Tuatha Dé Danann and the Milesians .
Lebor Gabála Érenn , a book of  आयरिश  mythology tells that Milesians were Scythian descendants .
The main groups that interacted with the Irish  in  the Middle Ages include the Picts , Scots , and the Vikings .
Due to this contact , Icelanders are noted for  having  some Irish descent .
The Anglo-Norman invasion of the High Middle Ages , the English plantations and the subsequent English rule of the country introduced  the normans और  Flemish into Ireland .
Welsh ,  picts , bretons , और  small parties of Gauls and even Anglo-Saxons are known in Ireland from much earlier times .
There have been many notable Irish  लोगों  throughout history .
The 6th century Irish monk and missionary Columbanus is regarded as one of the ``  fathers of यूरोपीय '' , followed  by Kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg .
The  वैज्ञानिक  Robert Boyle is considered the `` father of chemistry `` .
प्रसिद्ध आयरिश explorers  include Brendan the Navigator , Robert McClure , Ernest Shackleton and Tom Crean .
By some accounts , the first European child born in North  America had Irish descent on  both sides ; and an Irishman was the first European to set foot on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492 .
There are descendants of Irish people living in many western countries , particularly in English-speaking  देशों  .
Historically , emigration  रै  been caused by politics , famine and economic issues .
an अनुमानित 50 to 80 लाख लोगों हैं वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों , primarily in the संयुक्त किंगडम , the संयुक्त राज्य , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , कनाडा और आइसलैंड ; वहीँ हैं भी छोटी संख्याएँ in अर्जेंटीना , चिली , मैक्सिको , जमैका , बारबाडोस , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , नई जीलैंड , फ़्रांस , जर्मनी और  Brazil .
The largest number of descendants of Irish people   live in the United States .
The number of people living in Australia who are of Irish descent is higher , as a  प्रतिशत of कुल जनसांख्यिकी , than  that of any other country .
Approximately forty percent of the settlement population of Iceland came  इससे आयरलैंड or स्कॉटलैंड  .
The very  पहला  inhabitants of Iceland were Irish .
The Hubble Space Telescope ( HST  ) is a space  telescope that was carried into orbit by a Space Shuttle in 1990 and remains in operation .
A aperture telescope in low Earth orbit , Hubble 's four main instruments observe in the near ultraviolet  ,  visible , and near infrared .
the दूरदर्शी is नामित बाद the astronomer एडविन हबल .
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion  of Earth 's atmosphere  allows it to take extremely sharp images with almost no background light .
Hubble 's Deep Field have  महरूम  some of the most detailed visible-light images ever , allowing a deep view into space and time .
Many Hubble observations have led to breakthroughs in  astrophysics ,  such as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe .
Although not the first space telescope , Hubble is one of the largest and most versatile , and is  खूब ज्ञात as दोनो a vital शोध  tool and a public relations boon for astronomy .
The HST  was  built by the United States space agency NASA , with contributions from the European Space Agency , and is operated by the Space Telescope Science Institute .
The HST is one of NASA 's Great Observatories , along with the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory , the  चन्द्रा  X-ray Observatory , and the Spitzer Space Telescope .
Space telescopes were proposed   as early as 1923 .
Hubble was funded in the 1970s , with a proposed launch in 1983 , but the project   was beset by technical delays , budget problems , and the Challenger disaster .
When finally launched in 1990 , scientists found that  the main  mirror had been ground incorrectly , compromising the telescope 's capabilities .
The telescope was restored to its intended quality by  a  servicing mission in 1993 .
Hubble   is the only telescope designed to be serviced in space by astronauts .
Between 1993 and 2002 , four missions repaired , upgraded , and replaced systems on the telescope ; a fifth mission was canceled on  सुरक्षा grounds following the कोलंबिया  disaster .
However , after spirited public discussion , NASA  व्यवस्थापक माइक griffin  approved one final servicing mission , completed in 2009 by Space Shuttle Atlantis .
The telescope is now expected to function until at least  2013  .
Its scientific  successor , the जेम्स webb  Space Telescope ( JWST ) , is to be launched in 2018 or possibly later .
Anti-inflammatory refers to the property  of a  substance or treatment that reduces inflammation .
Anti-inflammatory drugs make up about half of analgesics , remedying pain by reducing inflammation as opposed to  opioids , जिससे  affect the central nervous system .
The Tonight Show is a   US late-night talk show that has aired on NBC since 1954 .
It is the longest currently running regularly scheduled entertainment program in the US and the third longest-running show on NBC after Meet the Press and Today   .
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ) , Jack Paar ( 1957–1962 ) ,  जॉनी  Carson ( 1962–1992 ) , Jay Leno ( 1992–2009 , 2010–present ) , and Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ) .
Several guest hosts also   appeared , particularly during the Paar and Carson eras .
The longest-serving host to date was Johnny Carson , who hosted The  Tonight  Show Starring Johnny Carson for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992 .
The  वर्तमान  host of the show is Jay Leno , who had previously hosted the show from 1992 to 2009 and began his second tenure on March 1 , 2010 .
On April 3 , 2013 ,  एनबीसी घोषित  Jimmy Fallon would become the new host of The Tonight Show .
The Tonight Show with Jimmy   Fallon will premiere February 24 , 2014 , the day after the closing ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics .
SS Andrea  डोरिया  .
Pronounced was an ocean  लाइनर लिये the  Italian Line ( Società di navigazione Italia ) home ported in Genoa , Italy , most famous for its sinking in 1956 , when 52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ) .
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria , the ship had a gross register tonnage  of 29,100 और a क्षमता of परिचय  1,200 passengers and 500 crew .
For a country attempting to rebuild its economy and   reputation after World War II , Andrea Doria was an icon of Italian national pride .
Of all  इटली  's ships at the time , Andrea Doria was the largest , fastest and supposedly safest .
Launched on 16 June 1951   , the ship undertook its maiden voyage on 14 January 1953 .
on 25 जुलाई 1956 , जबकि the एंड्रिया डोरिया थी approaching the coast of nantucket , मैसाचुसेट्स , बंधी लिये नई यॉर्क नगर , the eastbound of the स्वीडिश अमरीकी लकीर collided साथ it in कया became एक of इतिहास 's सबसे infamous  maritime disasters .
Struck in the side , the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately started to list severely to starboard , which left half of its  lifeboats अनुपयोगी  .
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in   significant loss of life , but the efficiency of the ship 's technical design allowed it to stay afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming .
The good  behavior  of the crew , improvements in communications and the rapid response of other ships averted a disaster similar in scale to that of the in 1912 .
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued and survived ,  जबकि  46 people died as a consequence of the collision .
The  evacuated  luxury liner capsized and sank the following morning .
This accident remains the worst maritime disaster to  occur  in United States waters since the sinking of the in 1915 .
The incident and its aftermath were heavily covered by the  न्यूज मीडिया  .
While the rescue efforts were both successful and commendable , the cause of the  collision with the  Stockholm and the loss of Andrea Doria generated much interest in the media and many lawsuits .
Largely because of an out-of-court  उपनिवेश अनुबंध  between the two shipping companies during hearings immediately after the disaster , no determination of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published .
Although greater blame appeared initially   to fall on the Italian liner , more recent discoveries have indicated that a misreading of radar on the Swedish ship may have initiated the collision course , leading to errors on both ships .
Andrea Doria was the last major  transatlantic यात्री  vessel to sink before aircraft became the preferred method of travel .
Dialysis  tubing
Dialysis tubing is a type of semi- or partially  permeable  membrane tubing made from regenerated cellulose or cellophane .
It can be used for diffusion with solutes or osmosis  if used with  water only .
Osmosis is when water passes through a semi-permeable  परत  to reach equilibrium .
Diffusion , on the other hand , allows the movement of  अणुओं इससे ऊँची विशेषज्ञता to  low concentration .
It will only allow molecules to pass through a semi-permeable membrane  or परत if the अणु  is small enough to fit through the membrane or a membrane 's pore .
This  प्रायः परिणाम साथ the प्रभाव of diffusion through a झिल्ली तभी वाकई affects छोटी अणुओं , और लगभग never larger अणुओं .
Dialysis tubing is used in clinical circumstances to ensure a filtered flow of molecules , preventing the flow of larger  solute molecules  .
छोटी अणुओं can be `` धोया '' आउट of a समाधान जिससे is उत्तेजित through the tubing into a solvent , प्रायः जल , जिससे surrounds it और in जिससे वे can be flushed दूर .
In demonstrations of semi-permeable membranes , a solution containing several types of molecules , usually glucose and starch , is placed into a semi-permeable dialysis bag , such as a cellulose  झिल्ली साथ छिद्र , और  the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band .
The sealed dialysis bag is placed in a container of a different  समाधान  , or water .
Molecules small enough to pass  through the tubing (  water , salts , monosaccharides , and other small molecules ) tend to move into or out of the dialysis bag in the direction of decreasing concentration , therefore displaying diffusion .
Larger molecules ( such as proteins ,  or polysaccharides  ) that have dimensions significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained inside the dialysis bag .
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution that has  a lesser solute  concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) will cross a semi-permeable membrane , like dialysis tubing , into a hypertonic solution ( a solution that has a higher solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) in an attempt to reach equilibrium , where the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium .
Mercury  प्रयोगशाला  thermometer
A  थर्मामीटर  ( from the Greek , thermos , meaning `` hot '' and μἐτρον , metron , `` measure '' ) is a device that measures temperature or temperature gradient using a variety of different principles .
A thermometer has two important elements : the temperature sensor ( e.g . the bulb on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) in which some physical change occurs with temperature , plus some means of converting this physical change  into  a numerical value ( e.g . the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) .
There are many types and  अनेक  uses for thermometers , as detailed below in sections of this article .
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney and  released  by RKO Radio Pictures .
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm , it is the first full-length cel animated feature film and the  earliest  in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series .
The  स्टोरी थी adapted  by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann Blank , Richard Creedon , Merrill De Maris , Otto Englander , Earl Hurd , Dick Rickard , Ted Sears and Webb Smith .
David Hand was the supervising director , while William Cottrell , Wilfred Jackson , Larry Morey , Perce Pearce , and Ben Sharpsteen directed the  film  's individual sequences .
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on December 21 , 1937 , followed by a nationwide release on February 4 , 1938 , and with international earnings  of $ 8 लाख दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज briefly assumed  the record of highest grossing sound film at the time .
The  लोकप्रियता of the फिल्मी रै led to it होने re-released theatrically अनेक टाइम्स , जबतक इसके घर वीडियो रिलीज in the 1990s .
Adjusted for inflation , it is one of the top ten  performers at the  North American box office .
At the 11th Academy Awards ,  वॉल्ट  Disney was awarded an honorary Oscar , and the film was nominated for Best Musical Score .
It was added to the United States National Film Registry in 1989 and is ranked in the American Film Institute 's list of the 100 greatest  अमरीकी films  , who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008 .
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big cultural impact , resulting in a popular theme park attraction , a video game , and a Broadway  musical  .
Childbirth , labour , delivery ,  जनम , partus  , or parturition is the culmination of a pregnancy period with the expulsion of one or more newborn infants from a woman 's uterus .
The process of  सामान्य  childbirth is categorized in three stages of labour : the shortening and dilation of the cervix , descent and birth of the infant , and birth of the placenta .
In many cases and  साथ increasing आवृत्ति , प्रसव is हासिल through प्रेरण of मजदूर or caesarean खण्ड , जिससे is the हटाना of the neonate through a सर्जिकल incision in the उदर , बल्कि than through vaginal जनम .
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the U.S.  इससे 1996 to 2006 , और comprise  nearly 32 % of births in the U.S. and Canada .
With respect to induced labor   , more than 22 % of women undergo induction of labour in the United States .
Medical professional policy  makers ढूँढें कि induced births और elective  cesarean can be harmful to the fetus and neonate as well as harmful or without benefit to the mother , and have established strict guidelines for non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks .
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which followed  bam  Margera and his crew as they undertook challenges , performed stunts and traveled the world .
The show  भागा  for 5 seasons between 2003 and 2005 .
Flushed Away   is a 2006 British/American computer animated action / adventure comedy film directed by David Bowers and Sam Fell .
It was made in the partnership between Aardman Animations  और ड्रीमवर्क्स एनिमेशन , और is aardman  's first completely computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion .
The film stars the voice talents of Hugh Jackman , Kate Winslet , Andy Serkis , Bill Nighy , Ian McKellen , Shane Richie and  जां रेनो  .
The story was by Sam Fell , Peter Lord , Dick Clement , and Ian La Frenais , and the screenplay was written by Dick Clement , Ian La Frenais , Christopher  Lloyd , Joe  Keenan , and William Davies .
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006 , and in UK on December 1 2006 , and was distributed by Paramount Pictures ,  मगर लिये स्विट्ज़रलैंड , स्पेन  , and the Netherlands , which were handled by Universal Pictures .
The Atlanta Braves are a professional baseball team  आधारित  in Atlanta .
The Braves are a member of the  पूर्वी प्रभाग  of Major League Baseball 's National League .
The Braves have played in Turner Field since   1997 .
The `` Braves '' name , which was first used in 1912 , originates from a term for a Native American warrior   .
They are nicknamed `` the Bravos '' , and  प्रायः referred  to as `` America 's Team `` in reference to the team 's games being broadcast on the nationally available TBS from the 1970s until 2007 , gaining a wide fanbase .
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most successful franchises in baseball , winning division titles an unprecedented 14 consecutive times in that period ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in which there were no official  division champions )  .
The Braves won the NL West 1991–93 and the NL East 1995–2005 , and returned to  the  playoffs as the National League Wild Card in 2010 .
The Braves advanced to the World Series five times in the 1990s , winning  the शीर्षक  in 1995 .
Since their debut in the National League in 1876 , the franchise has won 16 divisional titles , 17 National League pennants , as well as three World Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves , in  1957 as the  Milwaukee Braves , and in 1995 in Atlanta .
The Braves are the only MLB franchise to have  जीती the संसार  Series in three different home cities .
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the other being the Chicago Cubs ) and was founded in Boston , Massachusetts , in 1871  as the Boston Red  Stockings ( not to be confused with the American League 's Boston Red Sox ) .
They are considered `` the oldest continuously playing team in major  उत्तर अमरीकी खेल  . ''
There is an argument as to who is actually older because although the Cubs are a full season `` older '' ( formed as the Chicago White Stockings in 1870  ) शिकागो खोया  two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire , thus the Braves have played more consecutive seasons .
After various name  परिवर्तन  ( such as the Boston Beaneaters ) , the team operated as the Boston Braves for most of the first half of the 20th century .
In 1953 , the  team  moved to Milwaukee , Wisconsin and became the Milwaukee Braves , followed by the move to Atlanta in 1966 .
The  team 's  tenure in Atlanta is famous for Hank Aaron breaking Babe Ruth 's career home run record in 1974 , though the majority of Aaron 's home runs were hit while the team was in Milwaukee .
His record stood until 2007 , when San Francisco left  क्षेत्ररक्षक बैरी  Bonds broke the record .
The  पत्ते  of a Beech tree
3D  रेंडरिंग  of a μCT scan of a leaf piece , resolution circa 40 μm/ voxel .
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant  , as  defined in botanical terms , and in particular in plant morphology .
Foliage is a mass noun that refers to leaves as a  विशेषता  of plants .
Typically a leaf is a thin , flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis , but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are not flat ( for example many succulent leaves and conifers ) , some are not above ground ( such as bulb scales ) , and some are without major photosynthetic  फलन ( consider लिये उदाहरण cataphylls  , spines , and cotyledons ) .
Conversely , many structures of non-vascular plants , or even of some lichens , which are not plants at all ( in the sense of being  सदस्यों of the किंगडम  Plantae ) , do look and function much like leaves .
Furthermore , several structures found in vascular plants look like leaves but are not actually leaves ; they differ  from  leaves in their structures and origins .
Examples  शामिल phyllodes  , cladodes , and phylloclades .
Title card for the 1937 Our Gang comedy Rushin ' Ballet   .
Our Gang ( also known as The Little Rascals or Hal Roach 's Rascals ) are a series of American comedy short films about a group of poor  पड़ोस  children and their adventures .
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach , the series is noted for showing children behaving in a relatively natural way , as Roach and original director Robert F. McGowan worked to film the unaffected , raw nuances apparent  in regular children rather than have them imitate adult  acting styles .
In addition , Our Gang notably put boys , girls , whites and blacks together in a group as equals , something that `` broke new ground  , ''  according to film historian Leonard Maltin .
Such a thing had never been done before in cinema but has since been repeated after  the  success of Our Gang .
The first production at the Roach studio  in 1922 थी  a series of silent short subjects .
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ( MGM ) in 1927 , and converted the series to  ध्वनि in 1929  , the series took off even further .
Production continued at the Roach studio until 1938 , when the series was sold to MGM , who then continued  producing the comedies  until 1944 .
The Our Gang series includes a total of 220  शॉर्ट्स और एक  feature film , General Spanky , featuring over forty-one child actors .
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang trademark following their purchase of  the production  rights , the 80 Roach-produced `` talkies '' were syndicated for television under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955 .
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM 's Our Gang package ( now owned by Warner Bros. Entertainment ) have since remained in syndication ,  साथ आवधिक नई प्रोडक्शन्स आधारित  on the shorts surfacing over the years , including a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures .
Zacharias Janssen ( also Zacharias Jansen or Sacharias Jansen ) ( b.1580-88 , d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker from Middelburg associated with the invention of  the पहला ऑप्टिकल  telescope .
Janssen is sometimes also credited for inventing the first truly compound   microscope .
However , the origin of the microscope , just like the origin of  the दूरदर्शी  , is a matter of debate .
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater   lake in the Sierra Nevada of the United States .
At a surface elevation of , it is located along the border between California and Nevada , west of Carson  नगर  .
Lake  tahoe  is the largest alpine lake in North America .
Its depth is ,  बनाना  it the United State 's second-deepest ( the deepest is Crater Lake in Oregon , being deeper , at ) .
Additionally , Lake Tahoe is listed as the 26th  largest झील  by volume in the world at .
The lake was formed about 2 million years ago and is a  भाग  of the Lake Tahoe Basin with the modern lake being shaped during the ice ages .
It  is ज्ञात लिये the स्पष्टता of इसके जल और the परिदृश्य of surrounding kyu on सब पहलू .
The area   surrounding the lake is also referred to as Lake Tahoe , or simply Tahoe .
Lake Tahoe is a major tourist attraction in both Nevada  और कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
It is home to a number of ski resorts , summer outdoor recreation  , और पर्यटक  attractions .
Snow and skiing are a significant part of  the क्षेत्रफल 's  economy and reputation .
पहाड़ और झील नजारा हैं आकर्षण throughout the साल  .
The Nevada side   also includes large casinos .
Highways provide year-round access from Reno , Carson City , and  sacramento  .
Page 1 of  the twenty-seventh  Amendment 's certification in the National Archives
Page 2 of the amendment 's  प्रमाणन
Page 3 of the amendment  's  certification
The Twenty-seventh Amendment (  amendment  XXVII ) prohibits any law that increases or decreases the salary of members of the Congress from taking effect until the start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives .
it is the सबसे हाल amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  .
it थी सुपुर्द to the राज्य लिये अनुसमर्थन in 1789 और थी अपनाया in 1992  .
“First they came ... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to pastor Martin Niemöller (  1892–1984 ) परिचय the सुस्ती  of German intellectuals following the Nazis ' rise to power and the subsequent purging of their chosen targets , group after group .
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was created ; the content of the quotation may  have been presented  differently by Niemöller on different occasions .
इस सूची of आइलैंड्स by क्षेत्रफल शामिल सब आइलैंड्स in the संसार वृहद than 2,500 km2 ( ) और अनेक अन्य आइलैंड्स over 500 km2 ( ) , sorted in descending अनुक्रम  by area .
For comparison  ,  continents are also shown .
Four  तिहाई  logo
The Four Thirds system is a standard created by Olympus and Kodak for digital single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR   ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
The system provides a standard that , with digital cameras and lenses available from multiple manufacturers , allows for the  इंटरचेंज of lenses  and bodies from different manufacturers .
seems  to cover the standard .
Proponents describe it as an open standard , but companies may only use it under a non-disclosure   agreement .
Unlike older SLR systems , Four Thirds has  महरूम designed  from the ground up to be entirely digital .
Many lenses are extensively computerized , to the  पाइंट कि ओलम्पस  offers firmware updates for many of them .
Lens design has   been tailored to the requirements of digital sensors , most notably through telecentric designs .
The size of the sensor is significantly  smaller than for  most DSLRs and this implies that lenses , especially telephoto lenses , can be smaller .
For example , a Four Thirds lens with a 300 mm focal length would cover about the same angle  of view as a  600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film standard , and is correspondingly more compact .
Thus , the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of about 2 , and while this enables longer focal length for greater  आवर्धन  , it does n't aid the manufacture of wide angle lenses .
The image sensor format , generally intermediate between those of larger SLRs and smaller compact cameras  ,  generally gives levels of cost , performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes .
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed throughout a building to supply conditioned air  to a रूम through आउटलेट  vents , called diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles .
HVAC ( heating , ventilation   , and air conditioning ) is the technology of indoor and automotive environmental comfort .
hvac प्रणाली डिज़ाइन is a subdiscipline of mechanical अभियान्त्रिकी , आधारित on the सिद्धान्त of ऊष्मागतिकी , द्रव यांत्रिकी , और ऊष्मा ट्रांसफ़र  .
Refrigeration  is  sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR , or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( such as the designation of HACR-rated circuit breakers ) .
HVAC is important in the design of medium to large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments such as aquariums , where  सुरक्षित और स्वस्थ भवन  conditions are regulated with respect to temperature and humidity , using fresh air from outdoors .
Ventilation on the downdraught system , by impulsion , or the 'plenum ' principle , applied  to schoolrooms  ( 1899 )
हीटिंग , ventilating , और एयर कंडीशनिंग  is based on inventions and discoveries made by Nikolay Lvov , Michael Faraday , Willis Carrier , Reuben Trane , James Joule , William Rankine , Sadi Carnot , and many others .
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial revolution , and new  विधि of modernization  , higher efficiency , and system control are constantly introduced by companies and inventors worldwide .
The three central functions of heating , ventilating , and air-conditioning are interrelated , especially with the need to provide thermal comfort and acceptable indoor air quality within reasonable   installation , operation , and maintenance costs .
HVAC systems can provide ventilation ,  reduce एयर घुसपैठ  , and maintain pressure relationships between spaces .
The means of air delivery and removal from spaces is known as room air  वितरण  .
The starting point in carrying out an estimate both for cooling and heating depends on the exterior climate and interior   specified conditions .
However before taking up the heat load calculation , it  is जरुरी  to find fresh air requirements for each area in detail , as pressurization is an important consideration .
In modern buildings the design , installation , and control systems of these   functions are integrated into one or more HVAC systems .
For  very small  buildings , contractors normally capacity engineer and select HVAC systems and equipment .
For larger buildings , building services designers and engineers , such as mechanical , architectural , or building services engineers analyze , design , and specify the HVAC systems , and  specialty mechanical  contractors fabricate and commission them .
Building   permits and code-compliance inspections of the installations are normally required for all sizes of buildings .
The HVAC industry is a worldwide enterprise , with roles including  आपरेशन और मेंटेनेंस ,  system design and construction , equipment manufacturing and sales , and in education and research .
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the manufacturers  of HVAC  equipment , but regulating and standards organizations such as HARDI , ASHRAE , SMACNA , ACCA , Uniform Mechanical Code , International Mechanical Code , and AMCA have been established to support the industry and encourage high standards and achievement .
Royal Navy Commander James Bond , CMG , RNVR , is a fictional  अक्षर  created by British journalist and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953 .
He is the protagonist of the James Bond series of novels , films , comics and video  खेल  .
Fleming wrote twelve Bond novels and two short story collections before his death ,  हालांकि the पिछला  two books— The Man with the Golden Gun and Octopussy and The Living Daylights —were published posthumously .
The Bond character is a Secret Service agent , code number 007 , residing in London but  क्रियाशील internationally  .
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew during his service in the Naval Intelligence Division during World War II , to whom Fleming added his own style and a  number of his own  tastes ; Bond 's name was appropriated from American ornithologist James Bond .
Bond has  a क्रमांक of अक्षर traits  which run throughout the books , including an enjoyment of cars , a love of food and drink , and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day .
Since Fleming 's death in 1964 , there have been  अन्य authorised लेखक of बंध सामग्री , सहित  John Gardner , who wrote fourteen novels and two novelizations and Raymond Benson , who wrote six novels , three novelizations and three short stories .
There have also been three authors who wrote one book each , Kingsley Amis (  लिखने as रॉबर्ट markham )  , Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver .
Additionally a series of novels based on Bond 's  youth—  Young Bond —was written by Charlie Higson .
as spin-offs इससे the साहित्यिक works , वहीँ थी a टेलीविज़न अनुकूलन of the पहला अनोखा , कसीनो royale , in जिससे बंध थी निभाई as an अमरीकी एजेंट  .
A comic strip   series also ran in the Daily Express newspaper .
There have also been twenty-five Bond films ; seven  अभिनेताओं have निभाई  Bond in these films .
`` Nature Boy '' is a song by Eden Ahbez  , प्रकाशित  in 1947 .
The  सोंग tells a काल्पनिक of a `` अजीब एनचांटेड लड़के ... जो wandered बहुत दूर '' तभी to सीख कि `` the महानतम बात ... थी बस to प्रेम और be loved in वापसी '' .
Nat King Cole 's 1948 recording of the song was a major hit and `` Nature Boy '' has since become a pop and jazz standard , with dozens of major  कलाकारों interpreting  the song .
Louisiana ( or ; , ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a state located in the southern  प्रदेश of the संयुक्त  States of America .
louisiana is the 31st सबसे extensive और the 25th सबसे populous of the 50 संयुक्त राज्य .
Its capital is Baton  रूज और largest  city is New Orleans .
louisiana  is the only state in the U.S. with political subdivisions termed parishes , which are local government 's equivalent to counties .
The largest parish by   population is East Baton Rouge Parish , and the largest by land area is Cameron Parish .
Much of the   state 's lands were formed from sediment washed down the Mississippi River , leaving enormous deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp .
These  contain  a rich southern biota ; typical examples include birds such as ibis and egrets .
There are also many species of tree frogs , and fish such as sturgeon and  paddlefish  .
In  अधिक elevated क्षेत्रों , आग is a प्राकृतिक प्रक्रम in the लैंडस्केप , और रै उत्पादित extensive क्षेत्रों of longleaf पाइन वन और गीला savannas .
These  support an exceptional  large number of plant species , including many species of orchids and carnivorous plants .
कुछ louisiana शहरी environments have a multicultural , बहुभाषी विरासत , होने so strongly बहकावे by an जिसमें of 18th-century फ्रेंच , स्पेनी , देशी अमरीकी ( भारतीय ) और अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों कि वे  are considered to be somewhat exceptional in the U.S .
Before the American purchase of the  territory  , the current Louisiana State had been both a Spanish and French colony .
In addition , the pattern of development included importing numerous African slaves in the  18th सदी , साथ अनेक  from the same region of West Africa , thus concentrating their culture .
In the post-Civil War environment , Anglo-Americans increased the pressure for Anglicization , and in 1915 , English was made  the तभी  official language of the state .
Women 's rights are the rights and  entitlements  claimed for women and girls of many societies worldwide .
In some places these rights are institutionalized  or  supported by law , local custom , and behaviour , whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed .
They differ from broader  धारणाएं  of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include , though are not limited to , the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair   wages or equal pay ; to own property ; to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
The laws of science or scientific laws are statements that describe ,  भविष्यवाणी , और शायद  explain why , a range of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature .
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate ,  accurate  , broad or narrow theories , in all natural scientific disciplines ( physics , chemistry , biology , geology , astronomy etc . ) .
an analogous  term for a scientific law is a principle .
वैज्ञानिक  laws:
summarize a विशाल  collection of facts determined by experiment into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation , or at least stated in a single sentence , so that it can be used to predict the outcome of an experiment , given the initial  , boundary  , and other physical conditions of the processes which take place,
are strongly supported by empirical evidence - they are scientific knowledge that experiments  have repeatedly  verified ( and never falsified ) .
Their accuracy does not change when new theories are worked out , but rather the scope of application  , since the  equation ( if any ) representing the law does not change .
As with other scientific knowledge , they do not have  निरपेक्ष  certainty like mathematical theorems or identities , and it is always possible for a law to be overturned by future observations .
हैं प्रायः कोटेड as a  fundamental controlling influence rather than a description of observed facts .
I.e . `` the laws  of  motion require that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates , which are  प्रस्तावित दौरान the  scientific process before and during validation by experiment and observation .
These are not laws since they have not been verified to the same degree and may not  be  sufficiently general , although they may lead to the formulation of laws .
A law is a more solidified and formal statement , distilled from repeated  प्रयोग  .
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy , and  presents  the depth to which mathematics can describe nature , scientific laws are considered from a scientific perspective and follow the scientific method ; they `` serve their purpose '' rather than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ) .
For example , whether  a विधि `` refers  to reality '' is a philosophical issue , rather than scientific .
Fundamentally , all scientific laws follow from physics , laws which occur in other sciences  ultimately follow इससे शारीरिक  laws .
Often , from mathematically fundamental viewpoints , universal  स्थिरांक  emerge from scientific laws .
The   launch of the PlayStation 3 into the Japanese market on 10 November 2006 marked the second major seventh generation entertainment system to be released .
the प्रणाली थी released सात दिनों बाद on 17 नवम्बर in the संयुक्त राज्य .
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in the Blu-ray disc player ; the device was launched in European and other world  markets  in the first half of 2007 .
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams and Grainger ) is a fictional character from the CBS  साबुन operas the यंग और the बेचैन और  The Bold and the Beautiful , portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman .
She made her debut during the episode airing   on January 21 , 1983 .
In  1992 , bregman began बनाना विरल  appearances on The Bold and the Beautiful , later resulting in the character migrating there fully in 1995 .
Following a guest appearance in 2000 , Bregman returned to The Young and the Restless on August 24 , 2001 , remaining  on  recurring status .
In 2013 , it  थी घोषित  that Bregman had been placed on contract .
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with Paul Williams  ,  Scott Grainger , Sr. , and Michael Baldwin among many others causing a fierce rivalry with Traci Abbott Connolly .
Lauren is also famous for her long , violent rivalry  साथ  Sheila Carter .
The 2010 NBA Finals was the National Basketball Association (  एनबीए ) चैंपियनशिप  series for the 2009–10 season .
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the Los  एंजिल्स  Lakers , champions of the Western Conference and defending NBA champions , and the Boston Celtics , champions of the Eastern Conference .
The Lakers defeated the Celtics , four games to three , to win  the मताधिकार  's 16th NBA championship .
The 64th edition of the championship series was played  between जून 3 और जून 17 , थी ब्रॉडकास्ट on  ABC , and was watched by an average of 18.1 million people .
The  सेल्टिक्स  earned their berth into the playoffs by winning the Atlantic Division .
The Lakers won  the  Pacific Division to earn their berth .
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Miami Heat in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference First Round , the Cleveland Cavaliers   in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Semifinals , and defending Eastern conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals .
The Lakers reached the NBA Finals by defeating the Oklahoma   City Thunder in the best-of-seven Western Conference First Round , the Utah Jazz in the best-of-seven Western Conference Semifinals , and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals .
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the Major League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven game  स्वरूप , साथ the लेकर्स possessing  home-court advantage as a reward for finishing with better regular season record than the Celtics .
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant , Pau Gasol , and Ron Artest brought the Lakers close  to  victory in Game 1 .
A record breaking performance from Ray Allen 's eight  three-point baskets  ensured the Celtics a Game 2 triumph .
Derek Fisher ’s 11 points in  the  fourth quarter helped the Lakers win Game 3 .
The Celtics won Game 4 ; it did n't hurt that they netted an excellent performance in baskets by the team’s  reserves , जबकि पॉल पियर्स  led the team to a Game 5 win with 27 points on 57 % shooting from the floor .
The Lakers avoided elimination by winning a decisive Game 6 with 24 points  contributed by उनके बेंच .
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter , the Lakers rallied and won their second consecutive championship by taking over an exciting Game 7 aided by late contributions on offense by Pau Gasol  and Artest and  rebounding .
Bryant was named Most Valuable Player of the Finals for his second  लगातार  trophy .
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full seven games since and only the fourth  since  the NBA Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in .
The Laker franchise has 16 NBA Championships (  पाँच  in Minneapolis , 11 in Los Angeles ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships .
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949 Minneapolis Lakers defeated the Washington Capitols 4 games to 2 ; in 1953 Minneapolis defeated the New York Knicks 4  खेल to 1 ; in 1954 मिनियापोलिस  defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3 .
The NBA would return to the 2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey League seven game  श्रेणी  format until 1985 .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in the family  piperaceae , cultivated  for its fruit , which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning .
The fruit , known as a peppercorn when dried , is approximately in diameter , dark red when fully mature , and , like all  drupes , contains a सिंगल  seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be described simply as pepper , or more precisely as black pepper ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ) , green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried   ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to south India , and is extensively  cultivated  there and elsewhere in tropical regions .
Currently Vietnam  is  the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper , producing 34 % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground  pepper रै महरूम  used since antiquity for both its flavour and as a medicine .
Black pepper is the world 's most  traded  spice .
It is one of the most common spices added  to यूरोपीय  cuisine and its descendants .
The spiciness of black pepper  is due  to the chemical piperine , not to be confused with the capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in the modern world , often  युग्म साथ नमक  .
In cardiovascular  physiology ,  ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each heart beat or cardiac cycle .
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the  pulmonary वाल्व  into the pulmonary circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical   expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide  यूटिलिटी  enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively .
Simplified , Ejection fraction is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac  इमेजिंग  .
As a  गणितीय पद , ejection  Fraction is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography , Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have  definitively अनुमत  clinically relevant mathematics regarding Ischemia , Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of   the prosecution in countries with either the common law adversarial system , or the civil law inquisitorial system .
The  अभियोजन is the विधिक पार्टी  responsible for presenting the case in a criminal trial against an individual accused of breaking the law .
Strawberry shortcake most commonly means a dessert in  the shortcake  family of cakes .
स्ट्रॉबेरी  shortcake may also refer to:
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake , a अक्षर और मताधिकार निर्मित by अमरीकी बधाई
the  shortened title of Strawberry on the Shortcake , a Japanese romance movie .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ) , also  transliterated as मुहम्मद ( ) , थी a धार्मिक  , political , and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam .
He is believed by Muslims and Bahá'ís  to be  a messenger and prophet of God .
Muhammad is almost universally considered by Muslims   as the last prophet sent by God for mankind .
Non-Muslims regard   Muhammad as the founder of Islam .
Muslims consider him to  be the restorer of an अनछुए  original monotheistic faith of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets .
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca , he was orphaned at an early age and brought up under  the  care of his uncle Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly  as a व्यापारी  , as well as a shepherd , and was first married by age 25 .
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for  अनेक नाइट्स  of seclusion and prayer , he later reported that it was there , at age 40 , that he received his first revelation from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly , proclaiming that `` God is One `` ,  कि पूरा `` आत्मसमर्पण  '' to Him ( lit .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God , and that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God , in the same vein as  अन्य  Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few followers early on , and was met with hostility from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were  treated harshly  .
To escape persecution , Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his   followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
This event , the Hijra , marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar , which is also known as the  hijri पंचांग  .
In  मदीना  , Muhammad united the tribes under the Constitution of Medina .
After eight years of  fighting with the  Meccan tribes , his followers , who by then had grown to 10,000 , took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his followers  out to  destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
In  632  , a few months after returning to Medina from The Farewell Pilgrimage , Muhammad fell ill and died .
By the time of his death , most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to  islam  , and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity .
The  खुलासे  ( or Ayah , lit .
`` लक्षण [ of परमेश्वर ] '' ) — जिससे मुहम्मद reported receiving जबतक उसके मौत – रूप the आयतें of the कुरान , regarded by मुसलमान as the `` शब्द of परमेश्वर '' और around जिससे the धर्म is आधारित .
Besides the   Quran , Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets  of  Islam with reverence , adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned .
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were largely negative ,  appraisals  in modern history have been far less so .
The Great Books ( second  संस्करण  )
Great Books of the Western World is a series of books originally  प्रकाशित in  the United States in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. to present the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes .
The  श्रेणी is अभी in  its second edition and contains 60 volumes .
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be relevant to contemporary issues ,  and not only  important in its historical context ; it must reward rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas , '' relevant to at least 25 of the 102 great ideas identified by the editors .
Books  यहूद  not chosen on the basis of ethnic or cultural inclusiveness , historical influence , or the editors ' agreement with the views expressed .
`` Cocaine '' is a song  written and  recorded by JJ Cale in 1976 , but also known as a cover version recorded by Eric Clapton .
allmusic काल्स the latter `` among [ क्लैप्टन 's ] सबसे enduringly लोकप्रिय हिट्स '' और टीप कि `` भी लिये an कलाकार जैसे क्लैप्टन साथ a विशाल देह of high-quality कार्य , 'cocaine ' बाँधने among  his best . ''
Glyn Johns , who had previously worked with The Who , Led Zeppelin and The Rolling Stones , produced the Clapton recording , which was  released on क्लैप्टन 's 1977 एल्बम  Slowhand and as a single in 1980 .
The live version  of `` कोका '' , इससे the बस एक रात्रि एल्बम अंकित in टोकियो , charted on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 as the b-side of `` तुलसा समय `` , जिससे थी a no . 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine '' was one of several of Cale 's songs recorded by Clapton ,  सहित `` बाद  Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' Light '' .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval  base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December  8 in Japan ) .
From the standpoint of the defenders , the attack commenced at  7:48 a.m. हवाई  Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of Japan was planning   in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters , bombers and torpedo planes in two waves , launched  from six  aircraft carriers .
All eight U.S. Navy  battleships यहूद क्षतिग्रस्त  , with four being sunk .
Two of these were later raised , and with the remaining four repaired , six battleships returned to  सेवा  later in the war .
The Japanese also sank or damaged three cruisers , three destroyers , an  anti-aircraft  training ship , and one minelayer .
188 U.S. aircraft were destroyed ; 2,402   Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as the power station , shipyard , maintenance , and fuel and torpedo storage facilities  , as  well as the submarine piers and headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked .
Japanese  losses  were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost , and 65 servicemen killed or wounded .
One Japanese sailor   was captured .
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led directly  to the  American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters .
The following day ( December 8 ) , the  संयुक्त  States declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for   non-interventionism , which had been strong , disappeared .
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example  the  Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance .
Subsequent  operations by the  U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to declare war on the U.S. on December 11 , which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day .
There were numerous historical  precedents  for unannounced military action by Japan .
However , the lack of any formal warning , particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing , led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to  proclaim  December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
Project  रनवे ऋतु  2 was the second season of Bravo 's successful Project Runway , a reality competition for fashion designers .
Season 2 began airing on  दिसम्बर  7 , 2005 .
following a देशभर ढूंढें पहले in the साल , सोलह designers यहूद चुनी as semi-finalists और brought to नई यॉर्क नगर in जून , 2005 .
After the first challenge , called `` Road To The Runway '' , fourteen went on to  compete  as finalists .
The winning designer , Chloe Dao , received $ 100,000 in seed money to help launch her own line , a 2007 Saturn  आसमान roadster  , a spread in ELLE magazine , and a mentorship with the Banana Republic Design Team .
Winning alongside   Dao was her model , Grace Kelsey , who received the ELLE Magazine spread .
Michael  kors  and Nina Garcia returned as judges for the second season .
The fourth judging seat rotated each week , based on   the challenge .
Tim Gunn , fashion chair at Parsons The New School for Design , returned as a mentor for  the  designers .
Kara   Janx later appeared in Project Runway : All Stars in 2012 , where she finished 7th out of 13 .
andrae gonzalo , in the वही साल , competed in the दूसरी ऋतु of the सब सितारों संस्करण रखकर 10th आउट of 13 .
An  उदाहरण  of a Heraclius mule
In numismatics , a mule is a coin or medal minted with obverse   and reverse designs not normally seen on the same piece .
These  can  be intentional or produced by error .
This type of error is highly sought after , and examples can  लाने steep कीमतें  from collectors .
The earliest mules  हैं  found among ancient Greek and Roman coins .
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental , the result of an incorrect combination of a new die with one that had  officially महरूम withdrawn  from use , or the work of coiners working with dies stolen from an official mint , perhaps at a time when one of them should have been destroyed .
The name derives from the mule , the hybrid offspring of a horse and a donkey , due to such a coin having two sides intended for different coins , much as a mule has  अभिभावक of दो अलग  species .
This page documents the tornadoes  और  tornado outbreaks of 2010 .
The majority of tornadoes form in the U.S. , but they can occur  लगभग anywhere  under the right conditions .
A lesser number occur outside the U.S. , most notably in parts of neighboring southern Canada during the Northern Hemisphere 's summer season , but are also known in South America , Europe  ,  Asia , and Australia .
वहीँ  were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United States in 2010 ( of which at least 1,266 were confirmed ) , with 45 confirmed fatalities .
Elsewhere in the world , 11 people were killed in tornadoes , six in Argentina , three in  the  Bahamas , one in Bangladesh , and one in Germany .
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an  अत्यधिक  quiet early spring period , however such changed after a huge upswing starting in late April and a busy late spring and summer period .
the पतझड़ महीने यहूद थोड़ा ऊपर औसत  .
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in the vertebrate  प्रतिरक्षा  system .
Under the microscope , lymphocytes can be  विभाजित into  large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes .
Large granular lymphocytes include natural  कातिल  cells ( NK cells ) .
Small  lymphocytes  consist of T cells and B cells .
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft  's कार्य स्वचालन  framework , consisting of a command-line shell and associated scripting language built on .NET Framework .
PowerShell provides   full access to COM and WMI , enabling administrators to perform administrative tasks on both local and remote Windows systems .
In PowerShell ,  प्रशासनिक  tasks are generally performed by cmdlets ( pronounced command-lets ) , which are specialized .NET classes implementing a particular operation .
सेट of cmdlets may be संयुक्त साथ in स्क्रिप्ट , executables ( जिससे हैं स्टैंडअलोन अनुप्रयोग ) , or by instantiating नियमित .neT वर्ग ( or wmi/com वस्तुएँ ) .
These work by accessing data in different data stores  ,  like the filesystem or registry , which are made available to the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers .
Windows PowerShell also provides a hosting API with which the Windows PowerShell runtime  can be अंतःस्थापित अंदर  other applications .
These applications can then use Windows PowerShell functionality to implement certain operations , including those  उजागर  via the graphical interface .
This capability   has been used by Microsoft Exchange Server 2007 to expose its management functionality as PowerShell cmdlets and providers and implement the graphical management tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets .
Other Microsoft applications including Microsoft SQL  सर्वर 2008 भी expose  their management interface via PowerShell cmdlets .
With PowerShell , graphical  interface-based प्रबन्धन  applications on Windows are layered on top of Windows PowerShell .
A PowerShell  एनक्रिप्शन इंटरफ़ेस  for Windows products is mandated by the Common Engineering Criteria .
Windows PowerShell includes its  अपना extensive  , console-based help , similar to man pages in Unix shells , via the Get-Help cmdlet .
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie Andrews , Dick Van Dyke , David Tomlinson , and Glynis Johns , produced by Walt Disney ,  and based  on the Mary Poppins books series by P. L. Travers .
The film was directed by Robert Stevenson and written by Bill Walsh and Don DaGradi , with songs  by the  Sherman Brothers .
It was shot at Walt   Disney Studios in Burbank , California .
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance as Mary Poppins and the film also won Oscars for Best Film Editing , Original Music Score , Best Song for `` Chim Chim  cher-ee '' और बेहतरीन विज़ुअल प्रभाव  , and received a total of 13 nominations .
a स्टोरी चाप is an विस्तारित or continuing कथानक in episodic storytelling मीडिया ऐसे as टेलीविज़न , कॉमिक किताबे , कॉमिक स्ट्रिप्स , boardgames , वीडियो खेल , और in कुछ मामले , films .
On a television program , for example , the story would unfold over   many episodes .
In television , the use of the story arc is much more common in dramas than in comedies , especially in  साबुन  operas .
webcomics  are more likely to use story arcs than newspaper comics , as most web comics have readable archives online that a newcomer to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on .
Although story arcs have existed for decades , the term ``  स्टोरी  arc '' was coined in 1988 in relation to the television series Wiseguy , and was quickly adapted for other uses .
Many American comic   book series are now written in four or six-issue arcs , within a continuing series .
Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks for resale , and more accessible to the casual reader than the never-ending  निरंतरता कि एकबार characterised  comics .
Black Friday is the day  following थैंक्सगिविंग  Day in the United States , often regarded as the beginning of the Christmas shopping season .
in हाल सालो , सबसे प्रमुख रिटेलर have खोली अत्यधिक जल्दी और offered promotional बिक्री to लात बंद the अवकाश खरीदारी ऋतु , समान to मुक्केबाज़ी दिन बिक्री in अनेक राष्ट्रमंडल राष्ट्र .
Black Friday is not  an  official public holiday as such , but many non-retail employees and schools have both Thanksgiving and the day after off , followed by a weekend , thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers .
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005 , although news reports , which at  कि  time were inaccurate , have described it as the busiest shopping day of the year for a much longer period of time .
The day 's name originated in Philadelphia , where it originally was used to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian  and  vehicle traffic which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving .
Use of the term started before  1961 और  began to see broader use outside Philadelphia around 1975 .
Later an alternative explanation began to be offered : that `` Black Friday '' indicates the point at which retailers begin to turn  a  profit , or are `` '' .
For many years ,  it थी आम लिये रिटेलर  to open at 6:00 a.m. , but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00 .
This was taken to a new extreme in 2011 , when   several retailers ( including Target , Kohl 's , Macy 's , Best Buy , and Bealls ) opened at midnight for the first time .
In 2012 , Walmart and several other retailers announced that they would open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day ( except in states where opening on Thanksgiving is prohibited due to blue laws , such as Massachusetts where they still opened around  मध्यरात्रि ) , prompting काल्स  for a walkout among some workers .
Black Friday  खरीदारी is ज्ञात लिये attracting आक्रामक crowds , साथ सालाना रिपोर्ट्स of assaults , shootings , और throngs of लोगों trampling on अन्य shoppers in an attempt to मिलेंगी the बेहतरीन सौदे on a उत्पाद पहले आपूर्तियाँ चलाएं आउट .
The Family That Preys is a 2008 American movie drama written , produced ,  और निर्देशित  by Tyler Perry .
The  पटकथा focuses  on two families , one wealthy and the other working class , whose lives are intertwined in both love and business .
The movie is  the दूसरी of चार  in which Perry 's signature character , Madea , does not make an appearance .
It is also the second Perry-directed film ( alongside Daddy 's Little Girls ) that is not based on any of the filmmaker   's stage plays .
Net 10 , Net 15 , Net 30 and Net 60 ( also Net 10 days , et al ) are forms of trade credit which specify that the net amount ( the total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to be paid   in full and received by the seller within 10 , 15 , 30 or 60 days after the goods are dispatched or service is completed .
Net 30 or Net 60   terms are often coupled with a credit for early payment .
The word net in this sense means `` total  बाद  all discounts . ''
It originally derives from the  लैटिन nitere ( to चमक )  and nitidus ( elegant , trim ) , and more recently from the French net ( sharp , neat , clean ) .
Roadtown ,  tortola
The British West  इंडीज  were the islands in and around the Caribbean that were part of the British Empire .
in 1912  , the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies : The Bahamas , Barbados , British Guiana , British Honduras , Jamaica ( with its dependencies the Turks and Caicos Islands and the Cayman Islands ) , Trinidad and Tobago , the Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands .
Between   1958 and 1962 , all of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands , the Bahamas , British Honduras and British Guiana were organised into the West Indies Federation .
It was hoped that the Federation would become independent as a single nation , but it had limited powers , many practical problems , and a lack of  लोकप्रिय support  .
Consequently , the West Indies  संघ  was dissolved .
Most of the territories , including all the larger ones , are now independent as separate countries , with membership to many international forums such as the Organization of American States , the Association of Caribbean States , the World Trade Organization , the United Nations ,  the Caribbean Community , the Commonwealth of Nations and the Caribbean  Development Bank among others .
the  remainder are British overseas territories .
All the former nations of the British West Indies , except the Commonwealth of Dominica , Guyana and Trinidad and  टोबैगो  , are Commonwealth Realms .
the पद is स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये अंग्रेजों विदेशी territories in the caribbean , ऐसे as the केमन आइलैंड्स .
the बाकी  British West Indies
`` कया a अद्भुत संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा by bob thiele ( as `` जार्ज डगलस '' ) और जार्ज दाउद  Weiss .
It was first  अंकित  by Louis Armstrong and released as a single in 1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music  world  ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
आर्मस्ट्रांग 's रिकॉर्डिंग थी inducted in the ग्रैमी हॉल of कीर्ति in 1999  .
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group , Carlin  म्यूज़िक  Corp. , and Bug Music , Inc .
उद्घाटन  Day 2009 on the west steps of the U.S. Capitol .
President George W. Bush and First  महिला  Laura Bush lead the inaugural parade down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House , 2005
The inauguration of the president of the United States is a ceremonial event marking the commencement  of  a new four-year term of a president of the United States .
The day a presidential inauguration occurs  is ज्ञात as `` उद्घाटन दिन  '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ) .
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment , the date was March 4 , the day  of  the year on which the Constitution of the United States first took effect in 1789 ; the last inauguration to take place on the older date was Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first one on March 4 , 1933 . )
The most recent public presidential   inauguration ceremony , the swearing in of President Barack Obama to begin his second four-year term in office , took place on Monday , January 21 , 2013 .
The only inauguration element   mandated by the United States Constitution is that the president make an oath or affirmation before that person can `` enter on the Execution '' of the office of the presidency .
However , over the years , various traditions have arisen that have expanded the inauguration from a simple oath-taking ceremony to  a day-long event ,  including parades , speeches , and balls .
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson through that of  jimmy कार्टर , the प्राथमिक  Inauguration Day ceremony took place on the Capitol 's East Portico .
Since the 1981 inauguration of Ronald Reagan , the ceremony has been held at the  कैपिटल 's  West Front .
The inaugurations of William Howard Taft in 1909 and Reagan in 1985 were moved indoors at the Capitol due to  ठंडा मौसम .
The War of 1812 and World War  ii caused दो inaugurations  to be held at other locations in Washington , D.C .
When George Washington was inaugurated , the oath was administered by Robert Livingston , Chancellor of New York State , in 1789  , and  by William Cushing , Associate Justice of the Supreme Court , in 1793 .
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth swore in President John Adams , no chief  इंसाफ  has missed an Inauguration Day .
When  उद्घाटन  Day has fallen on a Sunday , the chief justice has administered the oath to the president on the Sunday privately and then again the next day publicly .
When a new president takes over mid-term due  to the मौत or इस्तीफा of a अध्यक्ष  , the oath of office is administered but formal , public inauguration events have not been held .
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta ( ; born  कूच  28 , 1986 ) , known by her stage name Lady Gaga , is an American singer , songwriter , record producer , dancer , activist , businesswoman , fashion designer , actress and philanthropist .
Born and raised in New York City , she primarily studied at the Convent of the Sacred Heart and briefly attended New York University 's Tisch School of the Arts before withdrawing to  focus on her  musical career .
वो जल्द began performing in the चट्टान म्यूज़िक झाँकी of मैनहटन 's निम्नतर ईस्ट पक्ष .
By the end of 2007 , record executive and producer Vincent Herbert signed her to his label Streamline Records , an imprint of Interscope Records   .
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records , her vocal abilities captured the attention of recording artist  एकॉन  , who also signed her to Kon Live Distribution , his own label under Interscope .
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording artist following the release of her debut album , The Fame ( 2008 ) , which  थी a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी कि अव्वल चार्ट  around the world and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face `` .
After embarking on the The Fame Ball Tour , she followed   the album with The Fame Monster ( 2009 ) , which spawned the worldwide hit singles `` Bad Romance `` , `` Telephone `` , and `` Alejandro `` .
The Fame Monsters success allowed her to embark on the eighteen-month long Monster Ball Tour , which later became one of the highest-grossing concert tours of  सब  time .
Her most recent album , Born This Way ( 2011 ) , topped the charts of most major markets and generated more international chart-topping singles , including ``  born इस रास्ता `` , `` यहूदा  `` , and `` The Edge of Glory `` .
Influenced by Britney Spears , David Bowie , Michael Jackson , Madonna , and Queen ,  महिला गागा is पहचाना  for her flamboyant , diverse and outré contributions to the music industry through her fashion , performances and music videos .
As of October 2011 , she has sold an estimated 23 million albums and 64  लाख singles विश्वव्यापी  and her singles are some of the best-selling worldwide .
Her achievements include five Grammy Awards   and 13 MTV Video Music Awards .
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ) , ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest Women in Music , is the sixth best selling digital singles artist in US according  to riaa ,  is regularly placed on lists composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most influential people in the world by Time magazine .
Besides her musical career , she involves herself with humanitarian  कल्याणकारी और  LGBT activism .
mckethan  Stadium home of Gator baseball
a चित्र of the 1924 बेसबॉल टोली
The Florida Gators baseball team  represents  the University of Florida in the sport of baseball .
The Florida Gators compete in Division  I of the  National Collegiate Athletics Association ( NCAA ) , and the Eastern Division of the Southeastern Conference ( SEC ) .
They play their home  games in Alfred  A. McKethan Stadium on the university 's Gainesville , Florida campus , and are currently led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan .
In the ninety-eight season history of the  gators बेसबॉल कार्यक्रम , the  team has won twelve SEC championships and has appeared in eight College World Series tournaments .
`` Electioneering '' redirects  यहाँ  .
लिये the radiohead सोंग , देखिए ok कंप्यूटर  .
अध्यक्षीय अभियान  button for Abraham Lincoln , 1860 .
The  रिवर्स पक्ष  of the button shows a portrait of his running mate Hannibal Hamlin .
A political campaign is an organized effort which seeks to influence the decision making process  within a  specific group .
In democracies , political campaigns often refer to electoral campaigns , wherein representatives  are chosen or  referendums are decided .
In modern politics , the most  ऊँची प्रोफ़ाइल राजनैतिक अभियान  are focused on candidates for head of state or head of government , often a President or Prime Minister .
एलिज़ाबेथ  Cady Stanton and her daughter , Harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12 , 1815 – October 26 , 1902 ) was an American social activist , abolitionist , and leading figure of the  जल्दी महिलाओं 's अधिकारों  movement .
Her Declaration of  sentiments , प्रस्तुत at the  first women 's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls , New York , is often credited with initiating the first organized women 's rights and women 's suffrage movements in the United States .
Before  stanton  narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to women 's rights , she was an active abolitionist together with her husband , Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin , Gerrit Smith .
Unlike many of  those शामिल  in the women 's rights movement , Stanton addressed various issues pertaining to women beyond voting rights .
Her concerns included women 's parental and custody rights  ,  property rights , employment and income rights , divorce , the economic health of the family , and birth control .
She was also an outspoken   supporter of the 19th-century temperance movement .
After the American Civil War , Stanton 's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the women 's rights movement when she , together with Susan B. Anthony ,  declined  to support passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution .
She opposed giving  added  legal protection and voting rights to African American men while women , black and white , were denied those same rights .
Her position on  this issue , together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's  issues beyond voting rights , led to the formation of two separate women 's rights organizations that were finally rejoined , with Stanton as president of the joint organization , approximately twenty years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement .
stanton  died in 1902 having authored both The Woman 's Bible and her autobiography , along with many articles and pamphlets concerning female suffrage and women 's rights .
my मेला महिला  is a musical based upon George Bernard Shaw 's Pygmalion and with book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe .
The story concerns Eliza Doolittle , a Cockney flower  लड़की  who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins , a phoneticist , so that she may pass as a well-born lady .
The musical 's 1956 Broadway production was a hit , setting what was then the record for the longest run of  कोई  major musical theatre production in history .
it थी  followed by a hit London production , a popular film version , and numerous revivals .
It has been called `` the  पूर्ण  musical '' .
Deregulation is the act or  प्रक्रम of निकालना  or reducing state regulations .
it is इसलिए विपरीत  of regulation , which refers to the process of the government regulating certain activities .
The Boston Bruins Radio Network is a 25-station ( 17 A.M. , 8 F.M . plus 2 F.M .  अनुवादक ) सीबीएस रेडियो संजाल  which carries live game broadcasts of the Boston Bruins .
The network 's  फ्लैगशिप  station is WBZ-FM /98.5- Boston , Massachusetts .
Dave Goucher announces  play-by-play  .
Bob  beers provides  color commentary .
This   article is about the short story .
For the poem by Sara Teasdale , see There Will Come  नरम  Rains .
`` There Will Come Soft Rains '' is a short story by science fiction author  रे bradbury  which was first published in the May 6 , 1950 issue of Collier 's .
Later that same  साल  the story was included in Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ) .
With over 1.2 billion  people  , Han Chinese is the largest ethnic group in the world .
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region , which sits in  an क्षेत्रफल between  south of the Hindu Kush in Afghanistan and the Indus River in Pakistan .
They number around   50 million .
the korowai लोगों of पापुआ गिने बस around 3,000 लोगों , और यहूद uncontacted जबतक the 1970s  .
नस्ल  or ethnic group is a socially defined category based on common culture or nationality .
Ethnicity can , but  करता नहीं have to , शामिल  common ancestry , appearance , cuisine , dressing style , heritage , history , language or dialect , religion , symbols , traditions , or other cultural factor .
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through common characteristics which set the group  अलावा इससे  other groups .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in  स्पेन  features 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day .
Solar  उर्जा , रौशन लाइट और ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य , रै महरूम harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स using a दायरा of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis , which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent  उर्जा समस्याएं the संसार अभी  faces .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive  सौर or क्रियाशील सौर  depending on the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to  दोहन  the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing  गुण , और डिजाइनिंग  spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the development  of  affordable , inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly  import-independent संसाधन  , enhance sustainability , reduce pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These advantages are  वैश्विक  .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early  deployment  should be considered learning investments ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved from a western variety of the Greek alphabet called the Cumaean alphabet , which was adopted and modified by  the  Etruscans who ruled early Rome .
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn  अपनाया और further  modified by the ancient Romans to write the Latin language .
During the Middle Ages , the Latin alphabet was adapted to Romance languages , direct descendants of Latin , as well as to Celtic ,   Germanic , Baltic , and some Slavic languages .
With the age of colonialism  और ईसाई इंजीलवाद , the लैटिन स्क्रिप्ट थी स्प्रेड विदेशी , और लागू to स्वदेशी अमरीकी , ऑस्ट्रेलियाई , ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई , austroasiatic , और अफ़्रीकी भाषाएं .
More recently , linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the International Phonetic Alphabet ( itself largely based on Latin script ) when transcribing or creating written standards for non-European languages , such as the African reference  वर्णमाला  .
The term Latin alphabet may refer to either the alphabet used to write Latin ( as described in this article ) , or other alphabets based on the Latin script , which is the basic set of letters common to the various alphabets descended from the  शास्त्रीय लैटिन  one , such as the English alphabet .
ये latin-derived  alphabets may discard letters , like the Rotokas alphabet , or add new letters , like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet .
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries , including the creation for Medieval Latin of lower case forms which  किया  not exist in the Classical period .
The assassination of United  राज्य  President Abraham Lincoln took place on Good Friday , April 14 , 1865 , as the American Civil War was drawing to a close .
The assassination occurred five days after the commander of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia , General Robert E. Lee , surrendered to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the   Union Army of the Potomac .
Lincoln was the first American  अध्यक्ष to be assassinated  , though an unsuccessful attempt had been made on Andrew Jackson 30 years before in 1835 .
The assassination was planned and carried out by the well-known stage actor John Wilkes Booth , as part of a larger conspiracy in a bid  to revive the  Confederate cause .
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David Herold , who were assigned to  मार  Secretary of State William H. Seward , and George Atzerodt who was to kill Vice President Andrew Johnson .
By  simultaneously  eliminating the top three people in the administration , Booth and his co-conspirators hoped to sever the continuity of the United States government .
Lincoln was shot while watching the play  Our  American Cousin with his wife Mary Todd Lincoln at Ford 's Theatre in Washington , D.C. on the night of April 14 , 1865 .
He died  जल्दी the  next morning .
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only managed  to घाव seward , जबकि  Atzerodt , Johnson 's would-be assassin , lost his nerve and fled Washington .
add-on  might mean:
Plug-in (  कम्प्यूटिंग  ) , a piece of software which enhances another software application and usually can not be run independently
Browser  एक्सटेंशन , जिससे  modifies the interface and/or behavior of web browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ) , a piece of software that enhances and customizes Mozilla-based  अनुप्रयोग
Add-ons for Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org ) ,  the आधिकारिक मोज़िला  Foundation web site which serves as a repository of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
Peripheral , an optional computer hardware component that significantly supplements or enhances the functionality of  the असली  unit
Video game accessory , a  टुकड़ा of हार्डवेयर प्रयुक्त  in conjunction with a video game console for playing video games
Club level seating is a special  खण्ड  of seating in modern sports stadiums .
The Club Level is usually located towards the middle of the stage of seating sections ,  ऊपर  the lower deck but below the upper deck .
They are usually right next to the Luxury Boxes , either right above , right below , or sandwiched between two levels of  लक्ज़री बाक्स  .
Club Level seating is considered as  उच्चतर  class than sitting anywhere else in the arena , but lower class compared to the Luxury Boxes .
Unlike the Luxury Boxes , most club levels do not  रैप entirely around  the arena .
Some club levels stop at a certain point , giving way to an expansion of the Mezzanine , while  अन्य  give way to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ) .
A notable exception to this is Emirates Stadium in London , which has a complete tier of  club  seating .
Club Levels allow fans multiple levels of  entertainment  .
Club Level seating is open to the elements , as opposed to the entirely   enclosed luxury boxes , which gives more of an outdoors impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas .
Club Level seating is normally bought on  a  contract basis to allow for maximum profit on the part of the stadium .
The Club Level  provides प्रशंसक साथ खास  access to an indoor part of the arena exclusive to fans with special tickets .
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to special restaurants , merchandise  stands , and lounge  areas of the stadium that are not otherwise available .
Concession stands and vendors on the Club Level also often offer different menus than in other  स्टैंड  to give more of a special feel to the Club .
These areas are  बंद बंद to  the rest of the stadium , and they usually can only be accessed through the exclusive , private club entrances .
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia Villani Scicolone ; 20 September 1934 ) is an Italian actress  .
Loren  is widely पहचाना  as Italy 's most renowned and honored actress .
She was the first actress of the talkie era to win an Academy Award for a non-English-speaking performance  , लिये उसके  portrayal of Cesira in Vittorio De Sica 's Two Women .
Her other awards include  a ग्रैमी  Award , five special Golden Globes , a BAFTA Award and a Laurel Award .
In 1995 she received the Cecil B.  demille  Award for lifetime achievements , one of many such awards .
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ) , El Cid  (  1961 ) , Yesterday , Today and Tomorrow ( 1963 ) , Marriage Italian-Style ( 1964 ) , and A Special Day ( 1977 ) .
In later years she has appeared in American  blockbusters ऐसे as grumpier  Old Men ( 1995 ) , and Nine ( 2009 ) .
In 1994 she starred in  रॉबर्ट  Altman 's Prêt-à-Porter , which earned her a Golden Globe nomination the same year .
She has also achieved critical  और  commercial success in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ) .
Deaths for  self-inflicted  injuries per 100,000 inhabitants in 2004 .
Incidence of suicide is underreported due to both religious and social  pressures  , and possibly completely unreported in some areas .
Nevertheless , from reported cases , certain trends are  apparent  .
Since the data  is skewed , comparing  suicide rates between nations is statistically unsound .
The trends themselves are not the cause , but may be indicative of  a रूट कारण .
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls  -  South Africa is a female boarding school founded in January 2007 and located in Henley on Klip near Meyerton , south of Johannesburg , South Africa .
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal  of providing  educational and leadership opportunities for academically gifted girls from impoverished backgrounds .
Oprah Winfrey   Leadership Academy for Girls
Digicel is a mobile phone network provider   operating in 31 markets across the Caribbean , Central America , and Oceania regions .
The company is owned by Irishman Denis O'Brien , is incorporated in Bermuda , and  based  in Jamaica .
It has about 13 million  बेतार  users .
As of 2012 , Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla , Antigua and Barbuda , Aruba  , Barbados , Bermuda , Bonaire ,  the British Virgin Islands , the Cayman Islands , Curacao , Dominica , El Salvador , Fiji , French Guiana , Grenada , Guadeloupe , Guyana , Haiti , Jamaica , Martinique , Nauru , Panama , Papua New Guinea , Samoa , Saint Kitts and Nevis , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Suriname , Tonga , Trinidad & Tobago , Turks and Caicos , and Vanuatu .
This is a list of records of  the फीफा संसार  Cup and its qualification matches .
Hospital Emergency Codes are used in hospitals worldwide to alert  स्टाफ to  various emergencies .
The use of codes is intended to convey essential information quickly and with minimal misunderstanding to staff , while preventing  तनाव और दहशत  among visitors to the hospital .
These codes may be posted on placards throughout the hospital , or printed  on  employee identification badges for ready reference .
Back of a hospital ID badge  प्रर्दशित विपत्ति  codes .
Hospital  आपात  codes may denote different events at different hospitals , including nearby ones .
Because many physicians work at more than one facility , this may lead to confusion in emergencies ,  so वर्दी प्रणालियों have  been proposed .
The route of the Eifel  जलसेतु  , with its average slope .
The Eifel Aqueduct was one of the  longest  aqueducts of the Roman Empire .
The aqueduct , constructed in AD 80 , carried water some from the hilly Eifel region of what is now Germany to the ancient city  of colonia  Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ) .
If the auxiliary spurs to additional springs  हैं  included , the length was .
The construction was  लगभग  entirely below ground , and the flow of the water was produced entirely by gravity .
A few bridges , including one up to in length , were needed to  pass  over valleys .
Unlike some of the other famous Roman aqueducts , the Eifel aqueduct was specifically designed to minimize the  above-ground  portion to protect it from damage and freezing .
In chemistry , a disulfide bond ( Br.E . disulphide bond )  is a covalent  bond , usually derived by the coupling of two thiol groups .
The linkage is also called an SS-bond or  disulfide  bridge .
The  overall  connectivity is therefore R-S-S-R .
the शब्दावली  is widely used in biochemistry .
In formal terms , the  कनेक्शन  is a persulfide , in analogy to its congener , peroxide ( R-O-O-R ) , but this terminology is obscure and is no longer used ( except in reference to R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ) .
Formal depiction of disulfide  बंध गठन  as an oxidation .
वेस्टमिंस्टर  Abbey is used for the coronation of British monarchs
Religion in the   United Kingdom and in the countries that preceded it , has been dominated , for over 1,400 years , by various forms of Christianity .
According to some surveys , a majority of citizens still identify with Christianity , although regular church attendance has fallen dramatically since the   middle of the 20th century , and immigration and demographic change have contributed to the growth of other faiths .
Religious affiliations of UK citizens are recorded by regular  सर्वेक्षण , the चार प्रमुख ones  being the UK Census , the Labour Force Survey , the British Social Attitudes survey and the European Social Survey .
According to the 2001 UK census ,  christianity is the  major religion , followed by Islam , Hinduism , Sikhism , Judaism and Buddhism in terms of number of adherents .
This , and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no religious affiliations has led commentators to variously describe the United Kingdom as a multi-faith ,  secularised , or  post-Christian society .
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from 1707 , and consequently most of the largest  धार्मिक समूह  do not have UK-wide organisational structures .
While some groups have separate structures for the individual countries of the United Kingdom , others may have a single structure  covering  England and Wales or Great Britain .
similarly , due to the अपेक्षाकृत हाल सृष्टि of उत्तरी आयरलैंड in 1921 , सबसे प्रमुख धार्मिक समूह in उत्तरी आयरलैंड हैं संगठित on an all-ireland आधार  .
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil  disturbance कि occurred in the  city of Newark , New Jersey between July 12 and July 17 , 1967 .
The six days of rioting , looting , and destruction left 26 dead and hundreds  घायल .
In United States college athletics , redshirt is a delay or suspension of an athlete  's भागीदारी in अनुक्रम to lengthen उसके or उसके काल  of eligibility .
Typically , a student 's athletic eligibility in a given sport is four seasons , a number derived from the four years  of अकादमिक  classes that are normally required to obtain a bachelor 's degree at an American college or university .
However , a student athlete may be offered the opportunity to redshirt for up to two years , which allows the  खिलाड़ी  to spread those four years of eligibility over five , or sometimes six years .
In a redshirt year , a student athlete may attend classes at the college or university , practice with an athletic  team  , and dress for play but he or she may not compete during the game .
Using this mechanism , a student athlete has up to  पाँच  academic years to use the four years of eligibility , thus becoming a fifth-year senior .
The term is used as a verb  , संज्ञा  , and adjective .
For example , a coach may  चुनें  to redshirt a player who is then referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt .
The opposite of this is a `` true   freshman . ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28  जुलाई 1914  and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from  इसके  occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were  समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी , austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन , as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय विरूद्ध the अनुबंध , इटली किया नहीं डालें into the युद्ध ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and  the Ottoman Empire  and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60 million Europeans  ,  were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely   because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations  शामिल .
One of  the long-term कल्याणकारी of the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of यूरोपीय .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz  फर्डिनेंड  of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
अनेक  alliances formed over the previous decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies , the conflict  जल्द स्प्रेड around  the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired  the first shots of  the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and  ध्वज on  the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought  to a halt—the so-called Miracle of  the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
on the पूर्वी सामने , the  Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus ,  मेसोपोटामिया और the  Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in  1915  and Romania in 1916 .
In  रूस , the त्सार 's सरकारी  collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives  and  American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries ,  सहमत  to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in victory for  the allies  .
कार्यक्रम on the घर fronts यहूद as उग्र as on the बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize उनके जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन to लड़ो a कुल युद्ध  .
by the समाप्त  of the war , four major imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the  former two  lost a great amount of territory , while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe was redrawn into several smaller  states  .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict   .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the  Treaty  of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
Map of  देशों कि घोषित themselves to be समाजवादी राज्य अंतर्गत the marxist–leninist or माओवादी परिभाषा - कि is to कह , `` कम्युनिस्ट राज्य '' - between 1979 और 1983 .
This period marked the   greatest territorial extent of Communist states .
A  कम्युनिस्ट  state is a state where the means of production are collectively owned by the society .
It has a form of government characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party rule of a communist party ( referred as Dictatorship of the Proletariat  by its  proponents ) and a professed allegiance to a Leninist or Marxist–Leninist ideology as the guiding principle of the state .
Technically  , ``  communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist society as defined by both Marxists and anarcho-communists is in principle stateless .
From this perspective , the term Marxist-Leninist state   is more appropriate .
Historically , a `` communist state '' referred to a system where public ownership of all or most means of production by the Communist party -run state is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working class ; today , a  कम्युनिस्ट  state can also , for instance , refer to contemporary China and Vietnam , where a Communist Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy .
According to Marxist–Leninists , the state is a tool in the hands of the ruling class , which in a socialist society is the working class , so a socialist  राज्य is , according  to Leninists , a state of the working class .
In practice , communist states do  नहीं दरअसल  refer to themselves as such .
They do this not to disguise the fact that the ruling party is communist , but rather because they do not  consider  themselves to be a communist society at present .
बजाय  , they constitutionally identify themselves as socialist states or workers ' states .
The primary goal of these states , which also explains their official name , is to guide their  संबंधित  countries in the process of building socialism , ultimately leading to communism .
Communist states  may  have several legal political parties , but the communist party is usually granted a special or dominant role in government , often by statute or under the constitution .
Consequently , the institutions of the  राज्य और of the  communist party become intimately entwined , such as in the development of parallel institutions .
In the 20th century , most communist  राज्य  adopted planned economies .
However , there were exceptions : The Soviet Union during the 1920s and late 1980s and Yugoslavia after World War II allowed limited markets  और a उपाधि of कार्यकर्ता  self-management , while China , Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s .
In the 21st century , China and Vietnam have allowed a mixed economy to  develop  .
The fundamental concepts of communist states often  diverge इससे the असली socio-economic  ideologies from which they develop .
As a  परिणाम , अनेक  adherents of these ideologies often oppose the political systems commonly associated with these states .
For example , dissenting communists such as Trotskyists were often opposed to the communist states of the  20th  century , claiming either that they had nothing to do with `` real '' communism or that the ideology of such states had reached a point of irrevocable corruption .
माइकल फ्रेड फेल्प्स ii ( born जून 30 , 1985 ) is a रिटायर्ड अमरीकी तैराक और the सबसे सजा ओलंपियन of सब समय , साथ a कुल of 22  medals .
Phelps also holds the all-time records for Olympic gold medals ( 18 , double the  दूसरी उच्चतम रिकार्ड धारकों  ) , Olympic gold medals in individual events ( 11 ) , and Olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ) .
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games , Phelps took  the  record for the most first-place finishes at any single Olympic Games .
Five of those victories were in individual events , tying the single Games   record .
In the 2012 Summer Olympics in London , Phelps won four golds and two silver medals  , making him  the most successful athlete of the Games for the third Olympics in a row .
फेल्प्स is the long कोर्स संसार recordholder in the 100-meter तितली , 200-meter तितली और 400-meter व्यक्तिगत medley as खूब as the पूर्व long कोर्स संसार recordholder in the 200-meter फ्रीस्टाइल और 200-meter व्यक्तिगत medley .
He has won a total of 71 medals in major international long-course competition , 57 gold , 11 silver , and three bronze  spanning the ओलंपिक  , the World , and the Pan Pacific Championships .
Phelps 's international titles and record-breaking performances have earned him the World Swimmer of the Year Award seven times and American Swimmer of the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the  साल पुरस्कार in 2012  .
His unprecedented Olympic success in 2008 earned Phelps Sports Illustrated  magazine  's Sportsman of the Year award .
After the 2008 Summer Olympics , Phelps started the Michael Phelps Foundation , which focuses on growing the sport of  तैराकी और promoting healthier lifestyles  .
He expects to do further work with his foundation after the 2012 Olympics , which he has  said will  be his last .
Lenovo Group Limited  ( ) is a चाइनीज बहुराष्ट्रीय  computer hardware and electronics company with its headquarters in Beijing , China and Morrisville , North Carolina and its registered office in Hong Kong , China .
Its products include personal computers , tablet computers , mobile phones , workstations , servers , electronic storage devices , IT management software and smart  टेलीविज़न  .
Lenovo is the world 's  second-largest  PC vendor by 2012 unit sales .
It  बाज़ार the थिंकपैड लकीर of  notebook computers and the ThinkCentre line of desktops .
Lenovo has operations in more than 60 countries and sells  इसके उत्पाद  in around 160 countries .
Lenovo was founded in Beijing  in  1984 and incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 under its previous name , Legend .
Lenovo is listed on the Hong  काँग  Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the Hang Seng China-Affiliated Corporations Index .
Slug is a   common name for an apparently shell-less terrestrial gastropod mollusk .
The word `` slug '' is also often used as part of  the आम  name of any gastropod mollusc that has no shell , has a very reduced shell , or has only a small internal shell .
( This is in contrast to the common name `` snail `` , which  is लागू  to gastropods that have a coiled shell that is large enough that the soft parts of the animal can retract fully into it . )
Slugs exist on land and in the sea , and there is even  एक genus of freshwater slugs , acochlidium  .
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however applied primarily to land slugs , whereas  slugs  from the sea or from freshwater are usually referred to as `` sea slugs `` and `` freshwater slugs '' .
Land gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial , but is too small to retract into ( like  many in the  family Urocyclidae ) , are known as semislugs .
The  विभिन्न taxonomic परिवारों  of slugs form part of several quite different evolutionary lineages which also include snails .
Thus , for example , the various families of land slugs are not very closely  सम्बन्धित  to one another , despite a superficial similarity in the overall body form .
The shell-less condition has arisen many times independently   during the evolutionary past , and thus the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one .
Slugs , like all other gastropods , undergo torsion ( a 180° twisting of the  आतंरिक अंगों  ) during development .
internally , स्लग anatomy clearly shows the प्रभाव of इस रोटेशन , लकिन externally the लाशें of जमीन slugs appear to be अधिक or कम सममित , मगर लिये the positioning of the pneumostome , जिससे is on एक पक्ष of the एनिमल , सामान्यतः the सही हाथ  side .
The soft , slimy bodies of slugs are prone to desiccation , so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments and must retreat to  नम छुपाना स्थान जब the  weather is dry .
The  subsequent  information in this article applies to land slugs .
is a लैटिन शब्द कि अर्थात् `` यूँ '' or , in लिखने , `` it थी यूँ in the सोर्स सामग्री '' .
sic  may also refer to:
Sic ,  cluj  , a commune in Romania
SIC  ,  the regional code for Sicily
Sic ( noise   artist ) , styled as [ sic ] , stage name of Jennifer Morris , a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal band from  torshavn  , the capital of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '' , a song by American   band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC ,  the  initial of Marco Simoncelli .
SIC as an acronym  may स्टैंड  for:
SiC , Silicon carbide , a semiconducting material , also used to make metalworking   tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars   )
Standard Industrial Classification , a 20th-century U.S. system   for classifying industries
International Standard Industrial  वर्गीकरण  a UN system for economic activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स परिषद
the Swiss Interbank Clearing  प्रणाली
San Isidro  क्लबों  , an Argentine rugby union club
खड़ा  Interpretation Committee , a committee dedicated to the interpretation of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information criterion  in the फ़ील्ड of  statistics
Second-in-command in the field  of विमानन
sistema  Interconectado Central power grid in Chile
Sociedade  independente  de Comunicação ( SIC ) , a television channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City , New Jersey , a coastal town in the United   States
Segmented  पूर्णांक  Counter mode , a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang   International Circuit , a high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International  सर्किट , a  motor racing venue in Shanghai , China
Simplified  निर्देशात्मक  computer , a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an early twentieth-century art magazine produced  by  French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College , a two  साल  Junior College in Harrisburg , Illinois , United States
विशिष्ट आगमनात्मक क्षमता , abbreviated to sic , जिससे is अधिक commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता or the परावैद्युत  constant
St Ignatius ' College , Riverview , a Jesuit school in Sydney ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया
Imperial   Standard of Napoleon I
Napoleon Bonaparte ( , ; 15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political leader who rose to prominence during the latter stages of the French Revolution and its associated  युद्धों  in Europe .
As Napoleon I , he was Emperor of the French from 1804  to  1815 .
His legal reform , the Napoleonic Code  , has been a major  influence on many civil law jurisdictions worldwide , but he is best remembered for his role in the wars led against France by a series of coalitions , the so-called Napoleonic Wars .
He established hegemony over most of continental Europe and sought to spread the ideals of the French Revolution , while consolidating an imperial monarchy which restored aspects  of the  deposed Ancien Régime .
Due to his success in these wars , often against numerically superior enemies , he is generally regarded as one of the greatest military commanders of all  समय  , and his campaigns are studied at military academies worldwide .
नेपोलियन  was born at Ajaccio in Corsica in a family of noble Italian ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century .
He trained as an artillery  अधिकारी  in mainland France .
He rose to prominence under the French First Republic and led successful campaigns against the First and  दूसरी coalitions  arrayed against France .
He led  a कामयाब आक्रमण of the इतालवी प्रायद्वीप .
in 1799 , he मंचन a तख्तापलट d'état और संस्थापित खुद as पहला कौंसुल ; पाँच सालो बाद the फ्रेंच सीनेट proclaimed उसे सम्राट , following a plebiscite in उसके  favour .
In the first decade of the 19th century , the French Empire under  नेपोलियन  engaged in a series of conflicts—the Napoleonic Wars —that involved every major European power .
After  a streak of victories , फ़्रांस secured a प्रबल स्थिति in महाद्वीपीय यूरोपीय , और नेपोलियन कायम the फ्रेंच गोला of influence through the गठन of extensive alliances और the नियुक्ति of मित्रों और परिवार सदस्यों to नियम अन्य यूरोपीय देशों as फ्रेंच क्लाएंट राज्य .
The  प्रायद्वीपीय  War and 1812 French invasion of Russia marked turning points in Napoleon 's fortunes .
His  ग्रांडे armée  was badly damaged in the campaign and never fully recovered .
In 1813 , the Sixth Coalition defeated his forces at Leipzig ; the following year the Coalition invaded France , forced Napoleon to abdicate and exiled him to the   island of Elba .
Less than a  year  later , he escaped Elba and returned to power , but was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo in June 1815 .
Napoleon spent the last six years of his life in  कारावास  by the British on the island of Saint Helena .
An  पोस्टमार्टम concluded he died  of stomach cancer , but there has been some debate about the cause of his death , as some scholars have speculated that he was a victim of arsenic poisoning .
इस is a कालानुक्रमिक लिस्टिंग of the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेटरों इससे पेन्सिलवेनिया .
United States  सीनेटरों  are popularly elected , for a six-year term , beginning January 3 .
Elections are held the first Tuesday after  नवम्बर  1 .
Before 1914 , they were chosen by  the पेन्सिलवेनिया  General Assembly , and before 1935 , their terms began March 4 .
The South Africa national rugby union  टोली  ( known as the Springboks ) represents South Africa in rugby union .
They compete in the annual Rugby  चैंपियनशिप  , along with southern-hemisphere counterparts Argentina , Australia and New Zealand .
They have won  this  championship on three occasions in sixteen years .
They are currently ranked second in the world by the International Rugby Board , and were named 2008  संसार टोली of the साल  at the Laureus World Sports Awards .
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation  of the  Rugby World Cup competition , the Springboks did not compete in the first two World Cups in 1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa .
The team made its World Cup debut  in 1995  , when the newly democratic South Africa hosted the tournament .
The Springboks then defeated the All Blacks 15–12 in the final , which is now remembered as one of the greatest moments in South Africa 's sporting history , and a  watershed  moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process .
South Africa regained their title as champions 12 years later , when they  पराजित इंग्लैण्ड 15–6 in  the 2007 final .
As a result of the 2007 World Cup tournament the Springboks were promoted to first place in the IRB  World Rankings  , a position they held until July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot .
The Springboks   play in green and gold jerseys , and their emblems are the Springbok and the Protea .
The side has been playing international rugby since 1891 , when  a British Isles side toured the  nation , playing South Africa in their first Test on 30 July .
South Africa was coached by Jake White , who led the Boks to the 2007 World Cup title , announcing his resignation  effectively इससे  the end of 2007 .
His replacement 's ( Peter de Villiers ) contract expired in 2011 , following a 11–9 defeat to Australia in the Rugby World Cup quarter-final , who  तब stated he होता  not be signing a new deal .
The previous  कप्तान थी जॉन smit  , who before he retired in 2011 played hooker for most of his career , although he has also been a prop , mainly in 2008 and 2009 .
Due to Smit being  अनुपलब्ध  for the November 2010 Tests after surgery , lock Victor Matfield took Smit 's place as captain for that tour .
The current  कप्तान is  Jean de Villiers .
The Battle of Gettysburg ( , with an sound ) , was fought July 1–3 , 1863 , in  और  around the town of Gettysburg , Pennsylvania .
It was the battle with the largest number  of हताहत  in the American Civil War and is often described as the war 's turning point .
Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade 's Army of the Potomac defeated attacks by Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee 's Army of Northern  वर्जिनिया , समाप्ति ली  's invasion of the North .
After his success at Chancellorsville in Virginia in May 1863 , Lee led his army through the Shenandoah Valley to begin his  second invasion of the North—the  Gettysburg Campaign .
With his army in high spirits , Lee intended  to शिफ़्ट the फ़ोकस of the गर्मियाँ अभियान  from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern politicians to give up their prosecution of the war by penetrating as far as Harrisburg , Pennsylvania , or even Philadelphia .
Prodded by President Abraham Lincoln , Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker moved his army in pursuit , but was relieved just three days  पहले the बैटल और replaced  by Meade .
Elements of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1 , 1863 , as Lee urgently concentrated his forces there , his  उद्देश्य  being to engage the Union army and destroy it .
Low ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a Union cavalry  प्रभाग अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर  . Gen. John Buford , and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry .
However , two large Confederate corps assaulted them from the northwest and north , collapsing the hastily developed Union lines , sending the defenders retreating through the  गलियों of कस्बा to the पहाड़ियाँ बस  to the south .
On the second day of battle , most of both  सेना  had assembled .
The Union line was laid out in a  रक्षात्मक  formation resembling a fishhook .
In the late afternoon of July 2 , Lee launched a heavy assault  on the Union  left flank , and fierce fighting raged at Little Round Top , the Wheatfield , Devil 's Den , and the Peach Orchard .
On the Union right , demonstrations escalated  into  full-scale assaults on Culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill .
All across the  रणभूमि  , despite significant losses , the Union defenders held their lines .
On the third day  of  battle , July 3 , fighting resumed on Culp 's Hill , and cavalry battles raged to the east and south , but the main event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge , known as Pickett 's Charge .
The charge was repulsed by Union rifle and  तोपखाने  fire , at great losses to the Confederate army .
Lee led his army on a torturous retreat back  to वर्जिनिया  .
Between 46,000 and  51,000 सैनिको  from both armies were casualties in the three-day battle .
That November ,  अध्यक्ष lincoln  used the dedication ceremony for the Gettysburg National Cemetery to honor the fallen Union soldiers and redefine the purpose of the war in his historic Gettysburg Address .
An academic discipline , or field of study , is a branch of knowledge that is taught and researched  at the कॉलेज  or university level .
Disciplines are defined ( in part ) , and recognized by the academic journals in which research is published , and the learned societies and academic departments or faculties to which  their  practitioners belong .
However  , वहीँ exists  no formal criteria for when educational programs and scholarly journals form an academic discipline .
A huge difference exists between , on the one hand , well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities  all over the world , have a long history , and have  a well established set of journals and conferences , and , on the other hand , suggestions for new fields supported only by few universities and publications .
Fields of study usually have several  sub-disciplines or शाखाओं  , and the distinguishing lines between these are often both arbitrary and ambiguous .
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming  भाषा .
PHP is now installed on more than 244 million websites and 2.1 million   web servers .
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995 , the reference implementation of PHP is now produced  by  The PHP Group .
While PHP  originally  stood for Personal Home Page , it now stands for PHP : Hypertext Preprocessor , a recursive acronym .
PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a PHP processor module which generates the resulting web page : PHP commands can be embedded directly into an HTML source document   rather than calling an external file to process data .
It has also evolved to include a command-line  interface  capability and can be used in standalone graphical applications .
PHP is free software released under the PHP License , which is incompatible with the GNU General Public License ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the   usage of the term PHP .
PHP can be deployed on most web servers and also as a standalone shell on almost every operating system and platform  , free of  charge .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29 , 1917 –  नवम्बर 22 , 1963 ) , प्रायः referred  to by his initials JFK , was the 35th President of the United States , serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II  in the दक्षिण प्रशांत  , Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
thereafter  , he served in the U.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican candidate  रिचर्ड  Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to have been elected to the office , the  second-youngest अध्यक्ष  ( after Theodore Roosevelt ) , and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic ,  कैनेडी  is the only non- Protestant president , and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion , the Cuban Missile Crisis , the building of the Berlin Wall ,   the Space Race , the African-American Civil Rights Movement , and early stages of the Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy increased the number of military advisers , special operation forces , and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism  in South East  Asia .
The Kennedy administration adopted the  नीति  of the Strategic Hamlet Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government .
It involved certain forced  relocation ,  village internment , and segregation of rural South Vietnamese from the northern and southern communist insurgents .
Kennedy  थी assassinated on नवम्बर 22 , 1963 in डलास , टेक्सास .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with  the  crime , but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later , before a trial could take place .
The FBI and   the Warren Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However , the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded  that those  investigations were flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
However , ABC News in their investigation , The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy , confirmed the  निष्कर्षों of the  Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber program led to a Congressional investigation that lasted from  1963  to 1970 .
चूंकि the 1960s सूचना concerning कैनेडी 's निजी जीवन रै आइये to लाइट .
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become  बेहतर  known , especially since the 1990s .
Although   initially kept secret from the general public , reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks highly in public opinion ratings   of U.S. presidents .
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by Ben E. King and written by King , Jerry Leiber , and Mike Stoller , inspired by the  आध्यात्मिक  `` Lord Stand by Me , '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3 .
There have  महरूम over  400 recorded versions of the song .
A political cartoon from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator S.D . Ehrhart , shows a farm woman labeled `` Democratic Party '' sheltering from a tornado  of political  change .
A metaphor is a figure of speech that describes  a विषय by  asserting that it is , on some point of comparison , the same as another otherwise unrelated object .
Metaphor is a type of analogy and is closely related to other rhetorical figures of speech that achieve their   effects via association , comparison or resemblance including allegory , hyperbole , and simile .
In simpler terms , a metaphor compares two objects or things without using  the  words `` like '' or `` as '' .
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor  in अंग्रेज़ी  literature is the All the world 's a stage monologue from As You Like It :
All the world  's  a stage,
And all the  मेन  and women merely players ;
They have their exits and their entrances ; — William Shakespeare  , As  You Like It , 2/7
This quote is a  रूपक क्युकी  the world is not literally a stage .
By figuratively asserting that the world is a stage , Shakespeare uses the points of comparison between the world and a stage to convey an understanding  about  the mechanics of the world and the lives of the people within it .
Mount  फुजी , इससे the thirty-six दृश्य of माउंट फुजी , रंग woodcut by katsushika hokusai
rembrandt वैन rijn , self-portrait , etching ,  c.1630
Francisco Goya , There is No One To Help Them ,  आपदाओं  of War series , aquatint c.1810
Felix Vallotton , La raison probante ( The Cogent  कारण  ) , woodcut from the series Intimités , 1898
printmaking is  the process of making artworks by printing , normally on paper .
printmaking सामान्यतः  covers only the process of creating prints with an element of originality , rather than just being a photographic reproduction of a painting .
मगर in the मामला of monotyping , the प्रक्रम is सक्षम of producing multiples of the वही टुकड़ा , जिससे is पुकारा a छपाई .
Each   print produced is not considered a `` copy '' but rather is considered an `` original '' .
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process , and also because the imagery of a print is typically not simply a reproduction of another work but rather is often a unique image designed from the start to be expressed in  a  particular printmaking technique .
A print may be known as an  छाप .
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not chosen only for its ability to produce multiple impressions , but rather for the unique qualities that each of the printmaking processes lends  itself to  .
Prints  हैं निर्मित by transferring स्याही इससे  a matrix or through a prepared screen to a sheet of paper or other material .
Common types of matrices  include : metal  plates , usually copper or zinc , or polymer plates for engraving or etching ; stone , aluminum , or polymer for lithography ; blocks of wood for woodcuts and wood engravings ; and linoleum for linocuts .
Screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics are used for the   screenprinting process .
Other types of matrix  substrates  and related processes are discussed below .
Multiple  impressions मुद्रित  from the same matrix form an edition .
Since the late 19th century ,  कलाकारों have generally हस्ताक्षरित  individual impressions from an edition and often number the impressions to form a limited edition .
Prints may also be printed in book form , such as illustrated books or artist 's  किताबे  .
Il Divo is an English multinational  operatic पॉप गायन  group created by music manager , executive , and reality TV star Simon Cowell .
Formed in the United Kingdom , they are  भी हस्ताक्षरित to cowell 's रिकार्ड  label , Syco Music .
Il Divo is a group of four male singers : French pop  सिंगर सेबेस्तियन izambard , स्पेनी baritone कार्लोस  Marín , American tenor David Miller , and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler .
To date , they  have बेची अधिक than  26 million albums worldwide .
Su-15  ,  one of the principal Soviet Air Defence interceptors in the 1970s and 1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or simply interceptor ) is a type of fighter aircraft designed specifically to prevent missions of enemy aircraft , particularly  बमवर्षक  and reconnaissance aircraft , and destroy them , relying usually on great speed and powerful armament .
Being used since the First World War , after the late 1960s , interceptors became less important due to shifting from bombers to intercontinental ballistic missiles ( ICBMs ) for  नाभिकीय  warfare .
A Vietnamese American ( ) is an  अमरीकी  of Vietnamese descent .
They make up about half of all overseas Vietnamese ( Người Việt  hải ngoại  ) and are the fourth-largest Asian American group .
Mass Vietnamese immigration to the United States started after  1975 , बाद the समाप्त  of the Vietnam War .
Early immigrants were refugee  नाव  people fleeing persecution or poverty .
Forced to flee from their homeland and  प्रायः thrust into ग़रीब  urban neighborhoods , these newcomers have nevertheless managed to establish strong communities in a short amount of time .
More than  sixty  percent of Vietnamese Americans reside in the states of California , Texas , Washington , Florida , and Virginia .
सामने पेज of the u.S. हथियारबंद शक्तियां समाचारपत्र , सितारों और धारियाँ , 2 may 1945
Adolf  हिटलर  committed suicide by gunshot on 30 April 1945 in his Führerbunker in Berlin .
His wife Eva ( née  braun ) वचनबद्ध  suicide with him by ingesting cyanide .
That afternoon , in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions , their remains were carried up the stairs through the bunker 's emergency exit , doused in petrol and set alight in the Reich Chancellery  garden outside  the bunker .
The Soviet archives record that their burnt remains were recovered and interred in successive locations until 1970 when they were again exhumed , cremated  and the  ashes scattered .
Accounts differ as to the cause of death ; one that he died by poison only and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot , while biting  down  on a cyanide capsule .
समकालीन  historians have rejected these accounts as being either Soviet propaganda or an attempted compromise in order to reconcile the different conclusions .
One eye-witness recorded that the body showed signs of having been shot  through the मुँह  , but this has been proven unlikely .
There is also controversy regarding the authenticity of skull and jaw fragments which  were  recovered .
In 2009 ,  डीएनए परीक्षण यहूद performed on  a skull Soviet officials had long believed to be Hitler 's .
the परीक्षण नाज़िल कि the कपाल थी दरअसल कि of a स्त्री कम than 40 सालो बूढ़ा .
स्थान  of Missouri
The alcohol laws of Missouri are among the least restrictive and most lax  और  permissive in the United States .
मिसौरी is ज्ञात throughout the मिडवेस्ट लिये इसके largely laissez-faire दृष्टिकोण to दारू विनियमन , in शार्प कंट्रास्ट to the बहुत सख्त दारू कानून of कुछ of इसके पड़ोसी , जैसे कान्सास और ओक्लाहोमा  .
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF , commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating  जीवाणु  syndrome , is a rare infection of the deeper layers of skin and subcutaneous tissues , easily spreading across the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue .
Necrotizing fasciitis is quickly progressing , having greater risk of developing in the immunocompromised due  to शर्तें  like diabetes , cancer , etc .
It is a severe disease of sudden onset and is usually  treated  immediately with high doses of intravenous antibiotics .
Type I describes a polymicrobial infection , whereas Type II describes  a  monomicrobial infection .
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g. ,  समूह a streptococcus ( streptococcus pyogenes ) , staphylococcus  aureus , Clostridium perfringens , Bacteroides fragilis , Aeromonas hydrophila ) .
Such infections are more likely to occur in people with   compromised immune systems .
Historically , Group A  streptococcus  made up most cases of Type II infections .
However , since as early as 2001 , another serious  form of  monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has been observed with increasing frequency , caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) .
Some published case reports have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory  drugs and  NF , though the evidence of the link was said to be weak because of a small number of case patients and it was unclear whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se .
World War II  ( WWII or WW2  ) , also known as the Second World War , was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945 .
It involved the vast majority of the world 's nations  —including  all of the great powers —eventually forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis .
It was the most widespread war in history  , with  more than 100 million people serving in military units from over 30 different countries .
In a state of `` total war `` , the major participants placed their entire economic ,  औद्योगिक , और वैज्ञानिक सामर्थ्य at the सेवा of the युद्ध प्रयत्न , erasing the भेद  between civilian and military resources .
Marked by mass deaths of  नागरिकों , सहित the holocaust और the  only use of nuclear weapons in warfare , it resulted in 50 million to over 75 million fatalities .
These deaths make World War II by far the deadliest  विरोध in  human history .
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was already at war with the Republic of China in 1937 , but the  world  war is generally said to have begun on 1 September 1939 with the invasion of Poland by Germany and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain .
From late 1939 to early 1941 , in a series of campaigns and treaties , Germany formed the Axis alliance   with Italy , conquering or subduing much of continental Europe .
Following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact , Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned and annexed territories between   themselves of their European neighbours , including Poland .
The United Kingdom and the other members of the British Commonwealth were the only major Allied forces continuing the fight against the Axis , with battles taking  प्लेस in उत्तर अफ़्रीकी as खूब as the long-running बैटल of the  Atlantic .
In June 1941 , the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union , giving a start to the largest land theatre of war in history , which tied down the major part of the Axis ' military forces for the   rest of the war .
In December 1941 , Japan joined the Axis , attacked the United States and  European  territories in the Pacific Ocean , and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific .
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942 , after Japan lost a series of naval battles and European Axis  सैनिकों यहूद पराजित  in North Africa and , decisively , at Stalingrad .
In 1943 , with a series of German defeats in Eastern Europe , the Allied invasion of Italy ,  और अमरीकी  victories in the Pacific , the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts .
In 1944 , the Western Allies invaded France , while the Soviet Union regained all of its territorial losses and  invaded  Germany and its allies .
During 1944 and 1945 the United States defeated the Japanese Navy and  captured  key Western Pacific islands .
The war in  यूरोपीय ended साथ the कैप्चर of बर्लिन by सोवियत और पॉलिश सैनिकों और the subsequent जर्मनी unconditional आत्मसमर्पण on 8 may 1945 .
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945 , the United States dropped atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on  6 अगस्त , और नागासाकी  on 9 August .
With an invasion of the Japanese  द्वीपसमूह  imminent , and the Soviet Union having declared war on Japan by invading Manchuria , Japan surrendered on 15 August 1945 , ending the war in Asia and cementing the total victory of the Allies over the Axis .
World War II altered the political alignment and social structure  of  the world .
The United Nations ( UN ) was established to foster international cooperation and prevent   future conflicts .
The great powers that were the victors of  the war—the  United States , the Soviet Union , China , the United Kingdom , and France—became the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council .
The Soviet Union and the United  राज्य  emerged as rival superpowers , setting the stage for the Cold War , which lasted for the next 46 years .
Meanwhile , the influence of   European great powers started to decline , while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began .
Most countries whose industries had been damaged moved towards economic   recovery .
Political integration , especially in Europe , emerged as an effort to stabilise postwar  संबंध और लड़ो अधिक  effectively in the Cold War .
A limited liability  कम्पनी  ( LLC ) is a flexible form of enterprise that blends elements of partnership and corporate structures .
Note than an LLC is not a corporation , and calling an LLC a corporation  is  technically incorrect .
An LLC is a legal form of company that provides limited liability to its owners in the vast majority  of संयुक्त राज्य  jurisdictions .
LLCs do not need  to  be organized for profit .
पाँच  K-Cups
The inside of a used  k-cup , साथ the  top foil and the used coffee grounds removed .
This shows the filter   inside the K-Cup .
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or other single cup brewing systems to brew a cup of  कॉफी , चाय , or hot  chocolate .
Each K-Cup is a plastic container  with  a coffee filter inside .
Ground coffee beans are packed in the K-Cup and sealed air-tight with a  संयोजन प्लास्टिक  and foil lid .
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer , the brewer punctures the foil  ढक्कन और the  bottom of the K-Cup and forces hot water under pressure through the K-Cup and into a mug .
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to  coffee roasters and tea  makers such as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters , Diedrich/ Gloria Jeans , Timothy 's World Coffee , Van Houtte , Caribou Coffee , Celestial Seasonings , Bigelow Tea Company , Twinings , Tully 's , Coffee People and Newman 's Own .
Keurig 's patents on the original K-Cup design expired in   September 2012 .
keurig holds at तनिक एक अतिरिक्त  , still-active US patent and another patent application , detailing improvements that have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup design .
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca . 1890s ) manufactured by the Gallet Watch Company in La Chaux-de-Fonds ,  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  .
Gallet MultiChron Astronomic ( ca . 1959 )  —complex mechanical  chronograph with 12 hour recoding capabilities , automatic day , date , month , and moon phase display
A modern Seiko   quartz wristwatch using the chronograph function ( movement 7T92 ) .
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive  atv53-3023  analog-digital chronograph with 4 area Radio Controlled reception ( North America , Europe , China , Japan ) .
A chronograph is a specific type of watch that is used as a stopwatch combined with a display   watch .
A basic  chronograph रै  an independent sweep second hand ; it can be started , stopped , and returned to zero by successive pressure on the stem .
Louis Moinet invented the  chronograph  in 1816
Conventional PCI  ( PCI is an  initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect , part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor bus , but in a standardized format that is independent of any  particular  processor .
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly to the processor bus , and are assigned  पता in the  processor 's address space .
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the  मदरबोर्ड  itself , called a planar device in the PCI specification , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local  बस थी पहला implemented in ibm pc compatibles , जहाँ it विस्थापित the संयोजन of isa प्लस एक vesa लोकल बस as the बस विन्यास .
It has subsequently   been adopted for other computer types .
PCI and   PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express , but , most motherboards are still made with one or more PCI slots , which are sufficient for many uses .
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit  फलक किनारे विद्युत  contacts ) , electrical characteristics , bus timing , and protocols .
The specification can be purchased from the PCI Special Interest Group (  pci-sig  ) .
ठेठ पीसीआई ताश प्रयुक्त in pcs शामिल : संजाल ताश , ध्वनि ताश , modems , अतिरिक्त पोर्ट ऐसे as usb or सीरियल , tv ट्यूनर ताश और डिस्क परिरक्षक  .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video  ताश became  AGP , and then PCI Express .
पीसीआई वीडियो ताश remain उपलब्धियाँ लिये उपयोग साथ बूढ़ा pcs बगैर अगप or पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस स्लॉट  .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards   are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions .
Michael Whitaker Smith ( born October 7 , 1957 ) is an American contemporary Christian musician , who has charted primarily in the  समकालीन ईसाई और occasionally  in the mainstream charts .
His biggest success in  mainstream music  was in 1991 when `` Place in this World '' hit No . 6 on the Billboard Hot 100 .
Smith is a  three-time  Grammy Award winner , and has earned 40 Dove Awards .
Over the course of his career , he sold more than 13 million albums and recorded 29  no  . 1 Hit songs , fourteen gold albums , and five platinum albums .
Smith is an American Music Award recipient ; he was also named one of People magazine 's ``  सबसे खूबसूरत  People '' .
An American poster from the World War II -era that was used to  inform लोगों परिचय  what they should do if they suspect sabotage .
Sabotage is a deliberate  कार्रवाई aimed  at weakening another entity through subversion , obstruction , disruption , or destruction .
In a workplace setting , sabotage is the conscious  वापसी of दक्षता  generally directed at causing some change in workplace conditions .
One  जो  engages in sabotage is a saboteur .
As a rule , saboteurs try to conceal their identities because  of the  consequences of their actions .
For example ,  whereas an  environmental pressure group might be happy to be identified with an act of sabotage , it would not want the individual identities of the perpetrators known .
Patrick Henry College ( PHC ) is a private , independent  college with an  Evangelical Christian basis that focuses on teaching classical liberal arts and government , located in Purcellville , Virginia , United States .
Patrick Henry is known for its  रूढ़िवादी  evangelical Christian focus .
As of April 17 , 2007 , the college was accredited by the Transnational Association of Christian Colleges and Schools , a national  faith-related accrediting  organization recognized by the Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation .
The school was founded with the help of the Home School Legal Defense Association , and now serves as the headquarters for the  संगठन  , with which it is still closely connected .
The history of television comprises the work  of numerous इंजीनियर्स  and inventors in several countries over many decades .
The earliest proposal was in 1908 , in a paper by A . A. Campbell-Swinton  and  postulated the use of cathode rays .
The first practical demonstrations of television , however  , यहूद विकसित  using electromechanical methods to scan , transmit , and reproduce an image .
As electronic camera and display tubes were perfected  ,  electromechanical television gave way to all-electronic systems in nearly all applications .
L'Idéal  Cinéma - Jacques  Tati at Aniche opened November 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active movie theater in the world
A  सिनेमा  in Australia
A  ठेठ मल्टीप्लेक्स ( एएमसी  Promenade 16 in Woodland Hills , Los Angeles , U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a cinema , movie house , film house , film theater or picture house ) is a   venue , usually a building , for viewing films .
सबसे लकिन नहीं सब फिल्म थिएटर हैं वाणिज्यिक परिचालन केटरिंग to the सामान्य पब्लिक , जो attend by खरीदना a टिकट  .
The movie is  projected  with a movie projector onto a large projection screen at the front of the auditorium .
Most movie theaters  हैं अभी equipped लिये डिजिटल  cinema projection , removing the need to create and transport a physical film print .
Southern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Norton Owner 's Club on California State Route 41 , near Creston .
A motorcycle club is a group of individuals  whose  primary interest and activities involve motorcycles .
Lyme  disease ,  Lyme borreliosis is an infectious disease caused by at least three species of bacteria belonging to the genus Borrelia .
Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto is the main cause of Lyme disease in North America , whereas  borrelia afzelii  and Borrelia garinii cause most European cases .
the बीमारी is नामित बाद the कस्बों of lyme और बूढ़ा lyme , कनेक्टिकट , यूएसए , जहाँ a क्रमांक of मामले यहूद पहचाना  in 1975 .
Although Allen Steere realized that Lyme disease was a tick-borne disease  in 1978 , the cause of  the disease remained a mystery until 1981 , when B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy Burgdorfer .
Lyme disease is the most common tick-borne  disease in  the Northern Hemisphere .
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks belonging to a few species of the genus Ixodes  (  `` hard ticks '' ) .
Early symptoms may include fever , headache  , थकान , अवसाद  , and a characteristic circular skin rash called erythema migrans ( EM ) .
Left  अनुपचारित ,  later symptoms may involve the joints , heart , and central nervous system .
In most cases  , the संक्रमण और इसके लक्षण हैं eliminated  by antibiotics , especially if the illness is treated early .
Delayed or inadequate treatment  can सीसे  to more serious symptoms , which can be disabling and difficult to treat .
Penises of minke whales   on display at the Icelandic Phallological Museum
Penis ( plural penises or penes ) is a general term for the organs with which male and hermaphrodite animals introduce sperm into receptive  महिलाओं  during copulation .
Such organs occur in many animals , both vertebrate and invertebrate , but males do not bear a penis in every animal species , and in those species in which the male does bear a so-called penis , the penes in the  विभिन्न  species are not necessarily homologous .
For  उदाहरण  , the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to the penis of a male insect or barnacle .
The term penis  applies to अनेक reproductive intromittent अंगों , लकिन नहीं to सब ; लिये उदाहरण the intromittent अंग of सबसे cephalopoda is the hectocotylus , a specialised भुजा , और पुरूष मकड़ियों उपयोग उनके pedipalps .
In most species of animals in which there is an organ  that might  reasonably be described as a penis , it has no major function other than intromission , or at least conveying the sperm to the female , but in the placental mammals the penis bears the distal part of the urethra , which discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires .
Artists and  रंगमंडल  ( A & R ) is the division of a record label or music publishing company that is responsible for talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of recording artists and/or songwriters .
It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record label or publishing company ; every activity involving artists to the point of album release is generally   considered under the purview of , and responsibility of , A & R .
A furlong is a measure of distance in   imperial units and U.S. customary units equal to one-eighth of a mile , equivalent to 220 yards , 660 feet , 40 rods , or 10 chains .
The exact value of the furlong varies slightly among  english-speaking  countries .
Five furlongs are  लगभग  1 kilometre ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ) .
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the circumference of the Earth ( along the great circle coincident with the meridian of longitude passing through Paris ) , the circumference of the Earth  is  about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs .
cr2032  lithium button cell battery
लिथियम  9 volt , AA , & AAA sizes
Lithium batteries are disposable ( primary ) batteries that  have लिथियम  metal or lithium compounds as an anode .
They stand apart from other batteries in their high charge density ( long life   ) and high cost per unit .
Depending on the design and chemical compounds used , lithium cells can produce voltages from 1.5 V ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or alkaline battery ) to about 3.7 V. Lithium batteries are widely used in products such  as  portable consumer electronic devices .
Raymond `` Ray '' Charles Jack LaMontagne ( ; born June 18 , 1973 ) is an American  singer-songwriter  .
LaMontagne has released  four  studio albums , Trouble , Till the Sun Turns Black , Gossip in the Grain and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise .
He  थी  born in New Hampshire and was inspired to create music after hearing an album by Stephen Stills .
आलोचकों have compared lamontagne 's म्यूज़िक to कि of the बैंड , वैन मॉरिसन , उपनाम ड्रेक , और टिम buckley .
He lives in Massachusetts with his wife  और दो children  .
When the Wind Blows is a novel by James Patterson   .
It is the precursor to The Lake House  और प्रेरित  the Maximum Ride series .
The novel is currently set to be adapted  into  a movie .
The Pittsburgh Steelers   were founded in 1933 .
Over the course of the team 's history  , the team  has had several logos while wearing virtually the same uniforms over the years , with subtle changes made to give the uniforms an updated look .
The team colors , uniforms  , and  logo are often ranked as being among the best in the NFL .
Facebook on the Ad-tech  2010
Facebook is an online social networking service , whose name stems  इससे the colloquial  name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some university administrations in the United States to help students get to know each other .
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin  moskovitz और क्रिस ह्यूजेस  .
The  जालस्थल 's सदस्यता थी  initially limited by the founders to Harvard students , but was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area , the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It gradually added support for students at various other universities before opening to high  स्कूल विद्यार्थी  , and eventually to anyone aged 13 and over .
फेसबुक अभी  allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years old to become registered users of the site .
Users must register before using the site , after which they may create a personal profile , add other  users as friends  , and exchange messages , including automatic notifications when they update their profile .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups , organized by workplace , school or college ,  or अन्य विशेषताएँ , और categorize  their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As of September 2012 ,  फेसबुक  has over one billion active users .
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10 , violating the  साईट  's terms of service .
in may 2005 , accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख in फेसबुक , और जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख of उसके अपना धन to the घट .
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used social networking  सेवा  by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list ,  saying , `` कैसा on धरती  did we stalk our exes , remember our co-workers ' birthdays , bug our friends , and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics , such as Facebook Detox , state that Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the United States , resulting in vast amounts of time lost  और प्रोत्साहित  narcissism .
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million monthly unique U.S.  विज़िटर in may  2011 .
According to Social Media Today , in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 % (  129.5 लाख  ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's  मार्केट  growth started to stall in some regions , with the site losing 7 million active users in the United States and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1 , 2012 , and was headquartered in Menlo  पार्क  , California .
Facebook Inc. began selling  भण्डार to  the public and trading on the NASDAQ on May 18 , 2012 .
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel ( 15 November 1891 – 14 October 1944 ) , popularly known as  the मरुस्थल फॉक्स ( wüstenfuchs  , ) , was a German Field Marshal of World War II .
He earned the respect of both his  own  troops and the enemies he fought .
Rommel was a highly decorated officer in World  War  I and was awarded the Pour le Mérite for his exploits on the Italian front .
In World War II , he further distinguished himself as the commander of the 7th Panzer  Division during the  1940 invasion of France .
His  नेतृत्व  of German and Italian forces in the North African campaign established him as one of the most able commanders of the war , and earned him the appellation of the Desert Fox .
He is regarded as one of the most skilled commanders of desert warfare in  the  conflict .
he  later commanded the German forces opposing the Allied cross-channel invasion in Normandy .
His assignments  never took  him to the Eastern Front .
Rommel  is  regarded as having been a humane and professional officer .
His Afrika Korps was never accused of war crimes , and soldiers captured during his Africa  अभियान  were reported to have been treated humanely .
Orders to kill  यहूदी  soldiers , civilians and captured commandos were ignored .
लेट  in the war , Rommel was linked to the conspiracy to assassinate Adolf Hitler .
चूंकि ख़बरों थी a नेशनल नायिका , हिटलर desired to eliminate उसे चुपचाप  .
He forced Rommel to  कमिट आत्महत्या  with a cyanide pill , in return for assurances that Rommel 's family would not be persecuted following his death .
Stained glass  प्रतिनिधित्व  of the Holy Spirit as a dove , c. 1660 .
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts  originating साथ patristic  authors , later elaborated by five intellectual virtues and four other groups of ethical characteristics .
They are : wisdom , understanding , wonder and awe ( fear of the Lord  ) ,  counsel , knowledge , fortitude , and piety ( reverence ) .
The Earth Day Flag , the latest proposal of   John McConnell for a flag of Earth Day
Earth Day is an annual event ,  मनाये  on April 22 , on which events are held worldwide to demonstrate support for environmental protection .
It was first celebrated in 1970 , and is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network , and celebrated in more than 192 countries each   year .
In 1969 at a UNESCO Conference in San Francisco  , the date proposed was  March 21 , 1970 , the first day of spring in the northern hemisphere .
This day of nature 's equipoise was later sanctioned in a Proclamation signed by Secretary General U   Thant at the United Nations .
A month later a separate Earth Day was founded by United States Senator Gaylord Nelson as an environmental teach-in first held on  अप्रैल 22  , 1970 .
Nelson was later awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom Award in recognition  of उसके  work .
While this April 22 Earth Day was  केन्द्रित on  the United States , an organization launched by Denis Hayes , who was the original national coordinator in 1970 , took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations .
Numerous communities celebrate Earth Week , an entire week of activities  focused on  environmental issues .
Iodine is a chemical element with symbol I and  परमाणु  number 53 .
The name is from Greek  ioeidēs  , meaning violet or purple , due to the color of elemental iodine vapor .
Iodine and its compounds are primarily used in nutrition , and industrially in  the  production of acetic acid and certain polymers .
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number , low toxicity , and ease of attachment to organic compounds  have made it a part  of many X-ray contrast materials in modern medicine .
Iodine has only one stable  समस्थानिक  .
A number of iodine radioisotopes are also used in medical applications   .
Iodine is found on Earth mainly as the highly water-soluble iodide ion ,  i−  , which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools .
Like the other halogens , free iodine occurs mainly as a diatomic molecule I2 , and then only momentarily after being oxidized from  आयोडाइड by an oxidant  like free oxygen .
In the universe and on Earth , iodine 's high  परमाणु  number makes it a relatively rare element .
However , its presence in ocean water has given  it a  role in biology .
It is the heaviest essential element utilized widely by life in biological functions ( only tungsten , employed in enzymes by a few   species of bacteria , is heavier ) .
Iodine 's rarity in many soils , due to initial low abundance as a crust-element , and also leaching of soluble iodide by rainwater ,   has led to many deficiency problems in land animals and inland human populations .
Iodine deficiency affects about two billion  लोगों  and is the leading preventable cause of intellectual disabilities .
Iodine is required by higher animals , which use it to synthesize thyroid hormones ,  जिससे  contain the element .
Because of this function  , radioisotopes  of iodine are concentrated in the thyroid gland along with nonradioactive iodine .
If inhaled , the radioisotope iodine-131 , which has a high fission product yield ,  concentrates in the थायराइड , लकिन is easily  remedied with potassium iodide treatment .
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of  attempting to  influence decisions made by officials in the government , most often legislators or members of regulatory agencies .
Lobbying is done by many different types of people and organized groups , including individuals in the private sector , corporations , fellow legislators  or government officials , or advocacy groups (  interest groups ) .
Lobbyists may be among a  विधायक  's constituencies , meaning a voter or bloc of voters within his or her electoral district , or not ; they may engage in lobbying as a business , or not .
पेशेवर lobbyists हैं लोगों  whose business is trying to influence legislation on behalf of a group or individual who hires them .
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an act of volunteering or as a small part of their normal job ( for instance , a CEO meeting with a representative about a project important to his/her company , or an activist meeting with   his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ) .
Governments often define and regulate organized group lobbying that has become  influential  .
The ethics and morality of  lobbying  are .
Lobbying is often spoken of with contempt , when the implication is that people with inordinate socioeconomic  शक्ति  are corrupting the law ( twisting it away from fairness ) in order to serve their own conflict of interest .
But another side of lobbying is making sure that others ' interests are duly defended against  others '  corruption , or even simply making sure that minority interests are fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority .
For example , a medical association , or a trade association of health insurance companies , may lobby a legislature in order to counteract the influence of tobacco companies , in which case  the lobbying होता be viewed by सबसे  people as justified ( duly defending against others ' corruption ) .
The difficulty in drawing objective lines between which lobbyists are `` good lobbyists '' and which ones are `` bad ones '' is compounded by the cleverness with  जिससे lobbyists or उनके क्लाइंट  can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind .
At heart , the effort   to influence legislation is a power struggle .
As in other forms of power struggle , such as war or law enforcement , motives range from to  self-defense to लड़ लिये इंसाफ  , and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization .
Sunshine of your   love guitar riff
मलाई यहूद a  1960s British rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce , guitarist/vocalist Eric Clapton , and drummer Ginger Baker .
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues rock , hard rock and  साइकेडेलिक  rock , combining the psychedelia-themed lyrics , Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing and vocals , Jack Bruce 's voice and prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming .
The group 's third album , Wheels of Fire , was the  संसार  's first platinum-selling double album .
Cream are widely regarded as being the  संसार 's  first successful supergroup .
In their career , they sold over  15 लाख  albums worldwide .
Cream 's music included songs based on traditional blues such as `` Crossroads `` and `` Spoonful `` , and modern blues such as `` Born Under a Bad Sign `` , as well as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew `` , ``   Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad `` .
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK , number 11 ) , `` Sunshine of Your Love `` ( US , number 5 ) , `` White Room `` ( US , number 6 ) , `` Crossroads '' ( US , number 28 ) , and `` Badge `` (  UK , number  18 ) .
Cream made a significant   impact on the popular music of the time , and , along with Jimi Hendrix , and Terry Kath of Chicago , popularised the use of the wah-wah pedal .
They provided a heavy yet technically proficient musical theme that foreshadowed and  बहकावे the emergence  of British bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s .
the बैंड 's सजीव प्रदर्शन बहकावे प्रगतिशील चट्टान अधिनियमों ऐसे as फटाफट .
Cream were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of  कीर्ति  in 1993 .
They were included in both Rolling Stone and VH1 's lists of the  `` 100  Greatest Artists of All Time '' .
They were also ranked number 16 on VH1 's   `` 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock '' .
hairspray is a 1988 कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा  and directed by John Waters , and starring Ricki Lake , Sonny Bono , Debbie Harry , Michael St. Gerard , Shawn Thompson , Colleen Fitzpatrick , Jerry Stiller , and in his last film role , Divine .
Hairspray was a dramatic departure from Waters ' earlier works , with a much  broader intended  audience .
In fact , Hairsprays PG is the mildest rating a Waters film has  प्राप्त ; सबसे of उसके पिछला films  were rated X by the MPAA .
Set in 1962 Baltimore , Maryland , the film revolves around self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' teenager Tracy Turnblad as she pursues stardom as a dancer  on  a local TV show and rallies against racial segregation .
Hairspray was only a moderate success upon its  आरंभिक  theatrical release , earning a modest gross of $ 8 million .
However , it managed to attract a larger audience on home video in the early 1990s and  became  a cult classic .
Most critics praised  the फिल्मी , हालांकि  some were displeased with the overall campiness .
In 2002 ,  the फिल्मी  was adapted into a Broadway musical of the same name , which won eight Tony Awards , including Best Musical in 2003 .
A second film version  of  Hairspray , an adaptation of the stage musical , was also released by New Line Cinema in 2007 , which included many changes of scripted items from the original .
The film also   ranks # 444 on Empire magazine 's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time .
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body  अंतर्गत  a common name , structure , and doctrine within Christianity .
Some groups included do not consider themselves a  denomination ( e.g.  , the Catholic Church considers itself the one true church and the Apostolic See , and as pre-denominational ) .
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called a denomination and do not have any formal denominational structure , authority , or record-keeping beyond the local congregation ; several groups within  बहाली गति पतन into इस श्रेणी  .
Some groups are large ( e.g . Catholics , Lutherans , Anglicans or Baptists ) , while others are just a few small churches , and in most cases the relative size is not  evident in  this list .
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist Christianity , Pietism , Evangelicalism , Pentecostalism and the Holiness movement sometimes cross denominational lines , or in some cases create new  denominations आउट of दो or अधिक continuing समूह , (  as is the case for many United and uniting churches , for example ) .
ऐसे subtleties और complexities हैं नहीं clearly चित्रित यहाँ  .
Major divisions within   Christianity .
Note : This is not a complete list , but aims to provide a comprehensible overview of  the  diversity among denominations of Christianity .
As  वहीँ हैं reported to  be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations , many of which can not be verified to be significant , only those denominations with Wikipedia articles will be listed in order to ensure that all entries on this list are notable and verifiable .
Between denominations ,  theologians  , and comparative religionists there are considerable disagreements about which groups can be properly called Christian , disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups .
For the purpose of simplicity , this list is intended to reflect the  self-understanding of  each denomination .
Explanations of different opinions concerning their status as Christian  denominations  can be found at their respective articles .
There is no official  recognition in most  parts of the world for religious bodies , and there is no official clearinghouse which could determine the status or respectability of religious bodies .
Often there is considerable disagreement between various churches about whether other churches should be labeled with pejorative terms such  as `` cult ''  , or about whether this or that group enjoys some measure of respectability .
Such  considerations often  vary from place to place , where one religious group may enjoy majority status in one region , but be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the world .
Inclusion on this list does not indicate any  निर्णय  about the size , importance , or character of a group or its members .
1804 map of `` Louisiana `` , edged on the west by the Rocky   Mountains .
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` Sale of Louisiana '' ) was the  अधिग्रहण  by the United States of America in 1803 of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana .
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11 ,250,000 ) plus cancellation of debts worth 18 million francs ( $ 3,750,000 ) , for a total sum of 15 million dollars ( less than 3 cents per acre ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars , less than 42  सेंट प्रति एकड़ ) .
The Louisiana  territory  encompassed all or part of 15 present U.S. states and two Canadian provinces .
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas , Missouri , Iowa , Oklahoma , Kansas , and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota ; most of South Dakota ; northeastern New Mexico ; northern Texas ; the portions of Montana , Wyoming , and Colorado east of the Continental Divide ; Louisiana west of the Mississippi River , including the city of New Orleans  ; and small portions of land that would eventually become part of the  Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan .
France controlled this vast area from 1699 until 1762 ,  the  year it gave the territory to its ally Spain .
Under Napoleon Bonaparte , France took back the  territory in 1800  in the hope of building an empire in North America .
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending war with Britain , however , led France to abandon these plans and sell the entire territory to the United States , who had originally intended only to seek the purchase of New  Orleans and  its adjacent lands .
The purchase  of  the territory of Louisiana took place during the presidency of Thomas Jefferson .
At the time , the purchase faced domestic opposition because  it  was thought to be unconstitutional .
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory , Jefferson decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in order to remove France 's presence in the region and to protect both U.S. trade access to the port of New Orleans and  free passage  on the Mississippi River .
Ceremony at Place d'Armes , New Orleans   marking transfer of Louisiana to the United States , 10 March 1804 , as depicted by Thure de Thulstrup .
`` Cool Jerk ''  is a लोकप्रिय  song written by Donald Storball and originally performed by The Capitols .
released  in 1966 , it reached No . 2 on the American R & B chart and No . 7 on the pop chart .
The backing track for this song was actually recorded ( secretly ) by the Motown  house  band The Funk Brothers .
Per one of the Funk Brothers , the  सोंग थी  originally to be called `` Pimp Jerk . ''
This was taken from watching neighborhood pimps , who would dance in the clubs , but were too `` cool '' to do the jerk like   regular folks .
उनके  version was subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk . ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the word pimp in the title would be banned or not receive much  positive attention , and had the  title changed to its current form .
The Go-Go 's , Todd Rundgren , Big Trouble , Human Sexual Response , The La De Da 's , The Creation , and The  coasters  have covered the song .
Todd Rundgren did his version in an odd time signature ( 7/4 ) , giving an obviously jerky feel to  the song  .
The Go-Go  's covered  the song for their 1982 album Vacation and later re-recorded it for their 1990 album Greatest .
In the feature film Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York , Uncle Frank ( Gerry Bamman ) sings `` Cool Jerk ''   in the shower .
A version of the song with  अलग गीत  ( `` Do the Cool Whip '' ) is used in Cool Whip commercials .
A recording of `` Cool Jerk ''  by रिकार्डो  Ray is featured in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ) .
The song  सुविधाएँ in the फिल्मी खड़ा in the  Shadows of Motown , performed by the Funk Brothers with lead vocals by Bootsy Collins .
The song is heard briefly in  the  animated feature , Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted .
Despite this reason , it is listed in some  विसंगतियाँ  of the film 's soundtrack .
A league is a unit of length ( or , rarely ,  क्षेत्रफल  ) .
It was long common in Europe and Latin America , but it is no longer an  आधिकारिक ईकाई in कोई स्वदेश  .
The league originally referred to  the अलहदा  a person could walk in an hour .
Since  the  Middle Ages , many values have been specified in several countries .
In the context of nautical distances , the 3 mile ( 4.8 km )  अलहदा corresponds to कैसा  far an observer of average height ( 5'9 '' or 1.78 m ) can see when standing at sea level .
Thus , a ship traveling one `` league '' has reached what  was  previously the farthest visible distance on the horizon .
The lack of a historical and global standard for  the सटीक माप of a  `` league '' can be accounted for by the variable elevation of the observer ( i.e. , sightings from a ship 's deck vs. masthead ) .
The Irish  राज्य आए into होने in 1922 as the आयरिश फ़्री राज्य , a डोमिनियन of the अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल , having seceded इससे the संयुक्त किंगडम अंतर्गत the anglo-irish सन्धि .
It comprises 26 of Ireland 's 32  काउंटी  .
चूंकि  1949 it has existed as the Republic of Ireland .
From its foundation , the Irish Free State was embroiled in a civil war  between राष्ट्रवादियों  supporting the Treaty and opponents who supported a republic .
The pro-Treaty side , organised as Cumann na nGaedheal emerged victorious from the conflict and won  subsequent  elections .
They formed the government of the state until  1932  , when they peacefully handed over power to the anti-Treaty faction in Fianna Fáil , who defeated them in an election .
The Irish state , despite its violent beginnings , has remained a  उदार  democracy throughout its existence .
A new constitution in 1937  removed अनेक  of the links with Britain established under the Treaty and Ireland 's neutrality in the Second World War demonstrated its independence in foreign policy matters from Britain .
In 1948 Ireland formally left the British Commonwealth and adopted the title of ``  गणतंत्र  '' .
In the economic  गोला ,  the Irish state has had a mixed performance .
on स्वतंत्रता , it थी एक of the wealthier देशों in यूरोपीय प्रति सिर of जनसांख्यिकी .
however it भी inherited इससे अंग्रेजों नियम the समस्याएं of बेरोजगारी , करणों , uneven भौगोलिक विकास और कमी of a देशी औद्योगिक आधार  .
For much of its history , the state struggled to rectify  ये समस्याएं  .
Particular peaks of emigration were recorded during the  लेट 1930s  , 1950s and 1980s , when the Irish economy recorded little growth .
In the 1930s , Fianna Fáil governments attempted to create Irish domestic industries using subsidies  और सुरक्षात्मक  tarifs .
In the late 1950s , these policies were  dropped in पक्ष  of free trade with selected countries and encouraging of foreign investment with low taxes .
This was expanded when Ireland entered the European Economic Community   in 1972 .
In the 1990s and 2000s , Ireland experienced an economic boom known as the Celtic  बाघ , in  which the country 's GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours .
Immigration also surpassed emigration , bringing the state 's population up to over  4  million .
However , since 2008 , Ireland has experienced a  कठोर संकट  in the banking sector and with sovereign debt .
The resultant economic slump has deepened the effect of  the संसार  recession on Ireland .
इससे  1937 to 1998 , the Irish constitution included a claim on Northern Ireland as a part of the national territory .
However , the state also opposed and used its  सुरक्षा शक्तियां विरूद्ध  those armed groups - principally the Provisional Irish Republican Army , who tried to unite Ireland by force .
इस occurred in the 1950s , throughout the 1970s और 1980s और रै जारी on a घटाया  scale .
Irish governments meanwhile tried to broker an agreement to the conflict known as The Troubles  within  Northern Ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s .
The British government officially  recognised the सही of the आयरिश सरकारी  to be a party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985 .
In 1998 , as part of the Good Friday Agreement , the Irish constitution was altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to Northern Ireland and instead extend the right of Irish citizenship to all the people of the island should  वे काश to have it  .
John Quincy  एडम्स (  July 11 , 1767February 23 , 1848 ) was the sixth President of the United States ( 1825–1829 ) .
He served as American diplomat , Senator , and Congressional  प्रतिनिधि  .
He was a member of the Federalist , Democratic-Republican , National Republican , and  बाद anti-masonic  and Whig parties .
एडम्स  was the son of former President John Adams and Abigail Adams .
As a diplomat , Adams played an important role in  negotiating many  international treaties , most notably the Treaty of Ghent , which ended the War of 1812 .
As Secretary of State , he  negotiated  with the United Kingdom over America 's northern border with Canada , negotiated with Spain the annexation of Florida , and authored the Monroe Doctrine .
Historians  सहमत  he was one of the greatest diplomats and secretaries of state in American history .
As president , he sought to modernize the  अमरीकी अर्थव्यवस्था  and promoted education .
Adams enacted a part of his agenda and paid off much of  the  national debt .
He was  stymied by  a Congress controlled by his enemies , and his lack of patronage networks helped politicians eager to undercut him .
He lost his  1828  bid for re-election to Andrew Jackson .
In doing so , he became the first president since his father to serve a  सिंगल  term .
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's foreign policy in line with his  ardently  nationalist commitment to America 's republican values .
More recently Howe ( 2007 ) portrayed Adams as the  exemplar और moral  leader in an era of modernization .
During Adams ' lifetime , technological innovations and new means of communication spread  संदेश of धार्मिक  revival , social reform , and party politics .
Goods , money , and people traveled more rapidly and efficiently than ever  पहले  .
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts after leaving office , serving for the last 17 years of his life with far  वृहद acclamation than he  had achieved as president .
He is , so far , the only president later elected to the United States House of Representatives ( though John Tyler was elected to the House of Representatives of the Confederate States just before  his  death in 1862 ) .
Animated by his growing   revulsion against slavery , Adams became a leading opponent of the Slave Power .
He predicted that if a civil war were to break out , the  president  could abolish slavery by using his war powers .
Adams also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the slavery issue , but said that if the South became  स्वतंत्र वहीँ होता  be a series of bloody slave revolts .
Windows  अंतरजाल  Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a version of the Internet Explorer web browser from Microsoft .
It was released to   the public on March 14 , 2011 .
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a major out-of-band version that is not tied  to the रिलीज अनुसूची  of any particular version of Windows , unlike previous versions .
It is the first version since Internet Explorer 2 to not be bundled with a Windows operating system , although some OEMs have installed it with Windows 7 on  उनके pcs , as खूब  as new Windows 7 laptops .
The system requirements for Internet Explorer 9 are  Windows 7 , Windows  Server 2008 R2 , Windows Vista Service Pack 2 or Windows Server 2008 SP2 with the Platform Update .
Windows XP and earlier are not  समर्थित  .
Internet  एक्सप्लोरर 9 is the पिछला संस्करण  of Internet Explorer to be supported on Windows Vista .
Both IA-32 and  x64 builds  are available .
Internet  एक्सप्लोरर  9 supports several CSS 3 properties , embedded ICC v2 or v4 color profiles support via Windows Color System , and has improved JavaScript performance .
it is the पिछला of the पाँच प्रमुख वेब browsers to implement support लिये स्केलेबल वेक्टर ग्राफिक्स ( svg ) .
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D , hardware-accelerated text rendering using DirectWrite , hardware-accelerated video rendering using Media Foundation , imaging support  provided by  Windows Imaging Component , and high fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline .
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the  html5 वीडियो  and audio tags and the Web Open Font Format .
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever first  marketed by the  Dr . Miles Medicine Company .
It was developed by Maurice Treener  , सिर  chemist at Miles , in Elkhart , Indiana .
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches , pains , inflammation , fever , headache , heartburn , sour stomach , indigestion , and hangovers , while neutralizing  excess  stomach acid .
it थी  launched in 1931 .
A spin-off   of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds and flu , Alka-Seltzer Plus , was later introduced .
A short-lived   antacid non-aspirin variant , Alka-Mints , was introduced in 1994 and discontinued in 1997 .
Alka-Seltzer is currently owned by Bayer Schering Pharma AG ,  जर्मनी  .
The name  `` alka-seltzer '' रै महरूम विस्तारित to चरितार्थ an संपूर्ण लकीर of medications बेची over the काउंटर और लिया by अर्थात् of rapidly dissolving टैबलेट कि रूप a कार्बोनेटेड समाधान in जल .
Cherry Alka Seltzer Plus Tablet dissolving  in जल
Image showing the six most common  speleothems  with labels .
Enlarge to  दृश्य  labels .
A  stalactite (  , ; from the Greek stalasso , ( σταλάσσω ) , `` to drip '' , and meaning `` that which drips '' ) is a type of speleothem ( secondary mineral ) that hangs from the ceiling of limestone caves .
It is a type of   dripstone .
The corresponding formation on the floor   of the cave is known as a stalagmite .
Degree  abbreviations हैं प्रयुक्त as an वैकल्पिक  way to specify an academic degree instead of spelling out the title in full , such as in reference books like Who 's Who and on business cards .
Many degrees have more than one  संक्षिप्त  .
In the UK , it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations for degrees with full stops ( e.g . `` BSc '' rather than  ``  B.Sc . `` .
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans into large and distinct populations or groups by anatomical , cultural , ethnic , genetic , geographical , historical  , भाषाई  , religious , or social affiliation .
First  प्रयुक्त to denote  national affiliations , the term began to be used to relate to physical traits in the 17th century .
In the early 20th century the term was often used , in a  taxonomic sense  , to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype .
जबकि biologists sometimes उपयोग the अवधारणा of रेस to मेक भेद among फजी सेट of traits , अन्य in the वैज्ञानिक जातियाँ सुझाएँ कि the विचार of रेस प्रायः is प्रयुक्त in a भोली or simplistic रास्ता , i.e . कि among इंसानो , रेस रै no taxonomic significance : सब जीना इंसानो belong to the वही प्रजाति , होमो sapiens और subspecies , होमो sapiens sapiens  .
सोशल conceptions और groupings of दौड़ vary over समय , involving लोक taxonomies
that define of  individuals  based on perceived traits .
वैज्ञानिकों consider biological essentialism obsolete , और generally discourage जातिगत स्पष्टीकरण लिये सामूहिक differentiation in दोनो शारीरिक और behavioral traits  .
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the ideologies and theories that grew out of the work of 19th-century anthropologists and  physiologists रै led to the उपयोग  of the word race itself becoming problematic .
Although still used in  सामान्य contexts , it is अभी प्रायः  replaced by other words which are less ambiguous and emotionally charged , such as populations , people ( s ) , ethnic groups or communities depending on context .
Lucy Stone ( August 13 , 1818 – October 19 , 1893 ) was a prominent American abolitionist and suffragist , and a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights  for  women .
In 1847 , Stone  became the  first woman from Massachusetts to earn a college degree .
She spoke out for women 's rights and against   slavery at a time when women were discouraged and prevented from public speaking .
Stone   was the first recorded American woman to retain her own last name after marriage .
Stone 's  organizational क्रियाएँ लिये the कारण of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों yielded ठोस gains in the मुश्किल राजनैतिक पर्यावरण of the 19th सदी .
Stone helped initiate the first National Women 's Rights Convention and she supported and sustained it annually along with a number of other local ,  राज्य और क्षेत्रीय  activist conventions .
Stone spoke in front of a number of legislative bodies to promote laws giving   more rights to women .
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery , after which she helped form the largest group of like-minded women 's rights reformers , the politically moderate American Woman Suffrage Association , which worked for decades at the state level in favor of  महिलाओं 's सही  to vote .
Stone wrote extensively about a wide range of women 's rights , publishing and distributing speeches by  herself और अन्य , और सम्मेलन  proceedings .
In the long-running and influential Woman 's Journal , a weekly periodical that she established and promoted , Stone aired  दोनो  her own and differing views about women 's rights .
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the woman 's rights movement '' , Stone delivered a speech which sparked Susan B. Anthony to  लो up the कारण of महिलाओं  's suffrage .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that `` Lucy Stone was the first person by whom the heart of the American  पब्लिक थी deeply  stirred on the woman question . ''
Together ,  एंथोनी , stanton , और स्टोन have  been called the 19th century `` triumvirate `` of women 's suffrage and feminism .
In finance , a bond is an instrument of indebtedness of the bond issuer to  the  holders .
It is a debt security , under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and ,  depending on the शर्तें of  the bond , is obliged to pay them interest ( the coupon ) or to repay the principal at a later date , termed the maturity .
Interest is usually payable at fixed intervals ( semiannual , annual ,  sometimes  monthly ) .
Very often the bond is negotiable , i.e . the  स्वामित्व  of the instrument can be transferred in the secondary market .
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the holder of  the  bond is the lender ( creditor ) , the issuer of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ) , and the coupon is the interest .
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to finance long-term investments , or , in the case of government  bonds , to वित्त  current expenditure .
Certificates of deposit ( CDs ) or short term commercial paper are considered to be money market instruments and not bonds : the main difference is in the length of the  पद of the  instrument .
Bonds and stocks are both securities , but the major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an equity stake in the company ( i.e . they are owners  ) ,  whereas bondholders have a creditor stake in the company ( i.e . they are lenders ) .
Another difference is that bonds  प्रायः  have a defined term , or maturity , after which the bond is redeemed , whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely .
An exception is an irredeemable bond , such as Consols ,  जिससे is a  perpetuity , i.e . a bond with no maturity .
A  स्केल  model of the Tower of London .
This model can be found inside the  मीनार  .
स्केल मॉडल  of water powered turbine
L to R with 12 inch ruler at bottom : 1:64 Matchbox Chevrolet Tahoe , 1:43 Ford F-100 , 1:25 Revell Monogram 1999 Ford Mustang   Cobra , 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
Model  जहाजों  and castle
A scale model is a physical model , a representation or copy of an object that is  larger or छोटी  than the actual size of the object , which seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical size of the original object .
Very  प्रायः  the scale model is used as a guide to making the object in full size .
स्केल मॉडल हैं निर्मित or एकत्रित लिये अनेक कारण  .
The Zune HD was a portable media player in the Zune product family released  on सितंबर  15 , 2009 by Microsoft .
It was a direct competitor with the Apple iPod and  iphone  series of mobile devices .
It was initially released in  16  and 32 GB capacities .
A 64 GB version was  released on  April 9 , 2010 .
It utilized a touchscreen interface for navigation and included Wi-Fi for  तुल्यकालन , अभिगम  to the Zune Marketplace and Web browsing .
the zune hd  utilized the Nvidia Tegra APX 2600 chip , allowing it to play 720p video through the optional HDMI Zune dock on a high-definition television .
Otherwise , content would be scaled down to 480x272  पिक्सेल  on the player 's OLED touchscreen .
Old Sparky , the electric chair used at Sing  Sing  prison
Execution by electrocution , usually performed using an electric  chair , is an execution  method originating in the United States in which the condemned person is strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body .
इस निष्पादन विधि थी निर्मित by कर्मचारी of थामस एडिसन दौरान the युद्ध of currents , और रै महरूम प्रयुक्त तभी in the संयुक्त राज्य और , लिये a काल of अनेक दशकों , in the फिलीपीन ( इसके पहला उपयोग वहीँ in 1924 अंतर्गत अमरीकी occupation , पिछला in 1976  ) .
Historically , once the condemned person was attached to the chair , various cycles ( differing in voltage and duration ) of  प्रत्यावर्ती वर्तमान होता be passed  through the individual 's body , in order to cause fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ) .
The first jolt of electric current was  designed to कारण तात्कालिक  unconsciousness and brain death ; the second one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital organs .
Death was  अक्सर  caused by electrical overstimulation of the heart .
Although in the United States the electric chair has become a symbol of the death penalty , its use is in decline due to the rise of lethal injection , which is widely believed to be a more  दयालु विधि of  execution .
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a method of execution , today it is only maintained as a secondary method that may be chosen over lethal  इंजेक्शन at the निवेदन of the कैदी  .
As of 2010 , electrocution is an optional form of execution in  अलबामा , फ्लोरिडा  , South Carolina and Virginia .
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal  इंजेक्शन  as an alternative method .
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee , the electric chair has been retired except for those whose capital crimes were committed prior to legislated dates in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31 , 1998 ; Tennessee :  दिसम्बर 31 , 1998 ) और जो chose  electrocution .
In both states , inmates   who do not choose electrocution or inmates who committed their crimes after the designated date are killed by lethal injection .
The electric chair is an alternate form of execution approved for potential use in Arkansas  and Oklahoma if other  forms of execution are found unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution .
It is  the एकमात्र विधि  of execution in Vermont , where treason is the only capital crime .
On February 8 , 2008 , the Nebraska Supreme  Court  determined that execution by electric chair was a `` cruel and unusual punishment '' under the state 's constitution .
This brought executions of this type to an end in Nebraska , the only remaining state to  retain electrocution as इसके  sole method of execution for murder .
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the General Assembly ,  the state  legislature of the American State of Maryland , and is composed of 141 Delegates elected from 47 districts .
The House of Delegates Chamber is located in the Maryland State House ( state capitol ) on State Circle  in annapolis ,  which is the state capital .
The State House also houses the Maryland State Senate Chamber and the offices  of  the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State of Maryland .
Each  प्रतिनिधि रै  offices in Annapolis , in the nearby Casper R. Taylor , Jr. House Office Building .
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as the Battle for Paris ) took place during World War II from 19 August 1944 until the surrender of the  occupying जर्मनी गैरीसन on  25 August .
The  मुक्ति of पेरिस  started with an uprising by the French Resistance against the German garrison .
On 24 August , the French Forces of the Interior ( Forces françaises de l'intérieur , FFI ) received reinforcements from the Free French Army of Liberation  और  from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton .
The capital region of France had been governed by Nazi Germany since the signing of the  दूसरी compiègne armistice in जून 1940 , जब the जर्मनी फौज occupied उत्तरी  and westernmost France , and when the puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France .
This battle marked the liberation of Paris and the exile of the Vichy government to Sigmaringen in  जर्मनी  .
However , there was still much heavy fighting to be done before France was liberated , including the campaign in southern France during August-September  ( in Provence and  extending into the southwestern region of the Vosges Mountains ) , along the German-held seaports of western France ( such as at Brest and Dunkirk ) , in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France , and in northeastern France , such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers .
The German Army and SS fought doggedly in these areas for the remainder of 1944   and into 1945 .
`` Feelin ' Alright ? '' also known as `` Feeling Alright '' is a song written by Dave Mason of the English rock band Traffic from their   eponymous 1968 album , Traffic .
the सोंग थी भी a hit सिंगल लिये अनेक performers : जो cocker ( 1969 , # 69 , recharted in 1972 , us # 33 ) , mongo santamaría ( 1969 , # 95 ) और ग्रैंड दुर्गंध रेलरोड  ( 1971 , US # 54 ) .
It has also been recorded by Three Dog Night ( 1969 ) , The 5th Dimension ( 1970 ) , Lou Rawls , Freddie King , Paul Weller , Lulu , Chairmen of  the Board  ( 1970 ) , Rare Earth , The Electric Concept Orchestra , Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ) , The Ohio Players ( 1971 ) , Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ) , Maceo Parker , Gladys Knight & the Pips , Widespread Panic and The Black Crowes .
A Steel Drum version by  Trinidad  Oil Company was reissued on the dancefloor jazz compilation Blue Juice 2 .
It  थी भी प्रदर्शित in the 2000 फिल्मी duets , सुंग by huey लुईस .
दोनो the असली  and the Joe Cocker cover were featured in the movie Flight , starring Denzel Washington .
Devon Werkheiser (  born कूच 8,1991 ) is an अमरीकी कर्ता , आवाज़ कर्ता , सिंगर , songwriter और संगीतकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके अभिनीत भूमिका as ned bigby on the निकलोडियन sitcom ned 's declassified स्कूल अस्तित्व मार्गदर्शिका और लिये उसके भूमिका in the 2007 tv फिल्म shredderman नियम , as the सीसे अक्षर नोलन byrd .
Werkheiser also played Peter Parkes in the fourth and final season of the   ABC Family show Greek .
Sample view of an   electronic health record based on images
Sample  दृश्य of  an electronic health record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is  an  evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations .
It is a record in digital format that is  theoretically  capable of being shared across different health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of  network-connected enterprise-wide  information systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a range of data , including demographics , medical history , medication  और allergies , immunization  status , laboratory test results , radiology images , vital signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing information .
Loan origination is the process by which a borrower  applies  for a new loan , and a lender processes that application .
Origination generally includes all the steps from taking a loan  अनुप्रयोग  up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ) .
ऋण सर्विसिंग कवर सबकुछ बाद disbursing the निधि जबतक the ऋण is fully सशुल्क बंद .
Loan origination is a specialized version of new account opening for financial services  संगठन  .
Certain people and  संगठन  specialize in loan origination .
Mortgage brokers and other mortgage originator  कंपनियाँ serve  as a prominent example .
There are many different types of  लोन  .
For more information on loan types , see the loan and  उपभोक्ता  lending articles .
Steps involved in originating a loan vary by loan type , various kinds of loan risk  , नियामक  , lender policy , and other factors .
Top left : The   Tennessee Valley Authority , part of the New Deal , being signed into law in 1933 .
Top right : Franklin Delano Roosevelt , who was responsible for initiatives and programs  collectively ज्ञात as  the New Deal .
Bottom  : a पब्लिक  mural from one of the artists employed by the New Deal .
The New Deal was a series of economic programs   enacted in the United States between 1933 and 1936 .
They involved presidential executive  आदेश or  laws passed by Congress during the first term of President Franklin D. Roosevelt .
the कार्यक्रम  were in response to the Great Depression , and focused on what historians call the `` 3 Rs '' : Relief , Recovery , and Reform .
That is Relief for the unemployed and poor ; Recovery of the economy to normal levels ; and Reform of the financial   system to prevent a repeat depression .
The New Deal produced a political realignment , making the Democratic Party the majority ( as   well as the party that held the White House for seven out of nine Presidential terms from 1933 to 1969 ) , with its base in liberal ideas , the white South , traditional Democrats , big city machines , and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities .
The Republicans were split  , साथ conservatives opposing  the entire New Deal as an enemy of business and growth , and liberals accepting some of it and promising to make it more efficient .
The realignment crystallized into the New Deal Coalition that dominated most presidential elections into the 1960s , while the  विपक्ष  Conservative Coalition largely controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963 .
By 1936 the term `` liberal '' typically was used  लिये समर्थक of the  New Deal , and `` conservative `` for its opponents .
From 1934 to 1938 , Roosevelt  थी  assisted in his endeavours by a “pro-spender” majority in Congress ( drawn from two-party , competitive , non-machine , Progressive , and Left party districts ) .
As noted by Alexander Hicks , “Roosevelt , backed by rare , non-Southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-Southern Democrat representatives and 71 non-Southern Democrat senators — spelled Second New Deal  reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second New Deal  '' ( 1935–38  ) , with the second one more liberal and more controversial .
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt with diverse groups , from banking and railroads to industry and farming , all of which demanded help  for  economic survival .
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration , for instance , provided $ 500 million for relief operations by states and cities , while the short-lived CWA ( Civil Works Administration   ) gave localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34 .
The `` Second New Deal `` in 1935–38 included the Wagner Act to promote labor unions , the Works Progress Administration ( WPA ) relief program ( which made the federal government by far the largest single employer in the nation ) , the  सोशल  Security Act , and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers .
The final major items  of नई सौदे विधान यहूद the सृष्टि of the संयुक्त राज्य आवास प्राधिकार और फार्म सुरक्षा प्रशासन , दोनो in 1937 , और the मेला मजदूर मानकों अधिनियम of 1938 , जिससे नियत अधिकतम घंटों और न्यूनतम मजदूरी लिये सबसे श्रेणी of मजदूर .
the आर्थिक downturn of 1937–38 , और the कड़वा विभाजित between the afl और cio मजदूर संघ led to प्रमुख रिपब्लिकन gains in कॉंग्रेस in 1938 .
Conservative Republicans and Democrats  in कॉंग्रेस  joined in the informal Conservative Coalition .
by 1942–43 वे shut  down relief programs such as the WPA and CCC and blocked major liberal proposals .
Roosevelt himself turned his attention to  the  war effort , and won reelection in 1940 and 1944 .
The Supreme Court declared the National Recovery Administration ( NRA ) and the first version of the Agricultural Adjustment Act ( AAA ) unconstitutional , however the AAA was rewritten and then  upheld  .
As the  पहला रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्ष  elected after FDR , Dwight D. Eisenhower ( 1953–61 ) left the New Deal largely intact , even expanding it in some areas .
In the 1960s , Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the New  सौदे as प्रेरणा  for a dramatic expansion of liberal programs , which Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained .
After 1974 , however , the call for deregulation of the   economy gained bipartisan support .
The New Deal regulation of  बैंकिंग  ( Glass–Steagall Act ) was suspended in the 1990s .
Many New Deal programs remain active , with some still operating under the original names , including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) , the Federal  क्रॉप बीमे निगम (  FCIC ) , the Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) , and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ) .
The largest programs still in existence today are the Social  Security  System and the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) .
A  स्त्री  ( ) , pl : women ( ) is a female human .
The term woman is usually reserved for an adult , with the term girl   being the usual term for a female child or adolescent .
However , the term woman is  भी sometimes प्रयुक्त to पहचानो  a female human , regardless of age , as in phrases such as `` Women 's rights `` .
Women are typically capable  of giving birth  , though older women who have gone through menopause and some intersex women can not .
`` I Do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is a song performed by American rock band  Aerosmith for  the 1998 film Armageddon .
लिखा by डायने वारेन , the सोंग debuted at क्रमांक एक on the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 ( the पहला # 1 लिये the बैंड बाद 28 सालो साथ  ) .
The song stayed at number one for four weeks from  सितंबर  5 to September 26 , 1998 .
The song also stayed at number 1 for several weeks in several other countries   .
In the UK , the song peaked at number four , becoming Aerosmith 's highest charting song in the UK  , जहाँ it थी the 17th best-selling  single of 1998 , and has sold over a million copies .
Although not used by the majority of the world 's countries ,  daylight  saving time is common in the Western world .
Daylight saving time ( DST ) —also summer time in British English — is the practice of advancing clocks during the lighter months so that evenings  have अधिक daylight  and mornings have less .
typically  clocks are adjusted forward one hour near the start of spring and are adjusted backward in autumn .
The modern idea of daylight saving was first proposed in 1895 by George Vernon Hudson and it was first implemented during  the पहला संसार  War .
अनेक देशों have प्रयुक्त it at विभिन्न टाइम्स चूंकि तब  .
Much of the United States used DST in the 1950s and 1960s , and DST use expanded following the 1970s energy crisis and has been widely used in North America and Europe   since then .
The  अभ्यास  has been both praised and criticized .
Adding daylight  to evenings लाभ retailing , खेल , और अन्य क्रियाएँ कि exploit धूप बाद working घंटों , लकिन can कारण समस्याएं लिये संध्या entertainment और अन्य occupations tied to the सूर्य .
Although an early goal of DST was to reduce evening usage of incandescent lighting ( formerly a  प्राथमिक  use of electricity ) , modern heating and cooling usage patterns differ greatly , and research about how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory .
DST clock  शिफ्ट उपस्थित  other challenges .
They complicate timekeeping , and can disrupt meetings , travel   , billing , record keeping , medical devices , heavy equipment , and sleep patterns .
Software can often adjust computer  घड़ियाँ automatically  , but this can be limited and error-prone , particularly when DST dates are changed .
Floorplan of the Château   de Montargis
montargis is a कम्यून in the loiret विभाग in north-central फ़्रांस on the loing नदी  .
The town is located about south of Paris and east of Orléans in  the  Gâtinais .
Montargis  is  the second largest city in the Loiret , after Orléans .
It is near a large forest , and contains light industry and  खेती , सहित  saffron .
Due to its numerous canals and bridges , Montargis sometimes bills itself as the `` Venice of  the  Gâtinais . ''
Though quite  आधुनिक , it  retains a medieval charm in its downtown area .
In computer storage , a logical unit number , or LUN , is a number used to identify a logical unit , which is  a device  addressed by the SCSI protocol or protocols which encapsulate SCSI , such as Fibre Channel or iSCSI .
A LUN may be used with  कोई यंत्र जिससे supports read/write  operations , such as a tape drive , but is most often used to refer to a logical disk as created on a SAN .
Though not  technically सही  , the term `` LUN '' is often also used to refer to the logical disk itself .
The Gospel  according to  Mark ( , , to euangelion kata Markon ) , commonly shortened to the Gospel of Mark or simply Mark , is the second book of the New Testament .
This canonical account of the  जीवन of यीशु of  Nazareth is one of the three synoptic gospels .
It was thought to be an epitome  ,  which accounts for its place as the second gospel in the Bible .
however , सबसे  contemporary scholars now regard it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ) .
कि चिह्नित थी प्रयुक्त as a सोर्स लिये the अन्य synoptic gospels इन्जील of मैथ्यू और इन्जील of ल्यूक is widely आयोजित by अनेक , हालांकि नहीं सब , नई वसीयत विद्वानों  .
The  इन्जील  of Mark narrates the Ministry of Jesus from his baptism by John the Baptist to his death and resurrection .
It focuses particularly on the last   week of his life ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem .
Its swift narrative portrays Jesus  as a वीर man of  action , an exorcist , healer and miracle worker .
An  महत्वपूर्ण थीम  of Mark is the Messianic Secret .
Jesus silences the demoniacs  he heals ,  tries unsuccessfully to keep his messianic identity secret , and conceals his message with parables .
Meanwhile , the disciples fail to understand both the implication of the miracles of Jesus  and the  meaning of the things he predicts about his arrest , death and resurrection .
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel  ends  at Mark 16:8 with the discovery of Jesus ' empty tomb and that the following account of his resurrection appearances is a later addition .
According to  परंपरा  and some early church writers , the author is Mark the Evangelist , the companion of the apostle Peter .
The gospel , however , appears  to rely on अनेक underlying स्त्रोत  , varying in form and in theology , which tells against the tradition that the gospel was based on Peter 's preaching .
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness accounts as well as known apostolic preachings , and pre-existing written records that do not exist today but  can be confirmed from  2nd-century commentators .
Some of the stories in the gospel may have been transmitted orally before being  written  down .
Various elements within the gospel suggest that the author wrote in Syria or  फिलिस्तीन  for a non-Jewish Christian community .
The Lord  of  the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel written by English philologist and University of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien .
The  स्टोरी  began as a sequel to Tolkien 's 1937 children 's fantasy novel The Hobbit , but eventually developed into a much larger work .
It was written in stages between  1937  and 1949 , much of it during World War II .
It is the second  best-selling अनोखा कभी  written , with over 150 million copies sold .
The title of the novel refers to the story  's प्रमुख विपक्षी , the अंधेरा रब sauron , जो  had in an earlier age created the One Ring to rule the other Rings of Power as the ultimate weapon in his campaign to conquer and rule all of Middle-earth .
From quiet beginnings in the Shire , a Hobbit land not unlike the English countryside , the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth , following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters , notably the hobbits Frodo Baggins , Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee , Meriadoc `` Merry '' Brandybuck and Peregrin `` Pippin '' Took , but also the  hobbits ' मुख्य allies और  travelling companions : Aragorn , a Human Ranger ; Boromir , a man from Gondor ; Gimli , a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas , an Elven prince ; and Gandalf , a Wizard .
The work was initially intended by Tolkien to be one volume of a two-volume set ,  साथ  the other being The Silmarillion , but this idea was dismissed by his publisher .
It was decided for economic reasons to publish  The Lord of the  Rings as three volumes over the course of a year from 29 July 1954 to 20 October 1955 , thus creating the now familiar Lord of the Rings trilogy .
The three volumes  यहूद  entitled The Fellowship of the Ring , The Two Towers , and The Return of the King .
Structurally , the novel is divided internally  into छह  books , two per volume , with several appendices of background material included at the end of the third volume .
The Lord of the Rings has since been reprinted  numerous टाइम्स और अनूदित  into many languages .
Tolkien  's work has  been the subject of extensive analysis of its themes and origins .
Although a major work in itself , the story was only the last movement of a larger epic Tolkien had worked  on चूंकि 1917  , in a process he described as mythopoeia .
प्रभाव on इस पहले कार्य , और on the स्टोरी of the रब of the बजती , शामिल philology , mythology , धर्म और the लेखक 's distaste लिये the प्रभाव of industrialization , as खूब as पहले काल्पनिक works और tolkien 's अनुभवों  in World War I .
The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have had a great effect on modern fantasy ; the impact of Tolkien 's works is such that the use of the words `` Tolkienian '' and `` Tolkienesque  '' have  been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary .
The  enduring लोकप्रियता  of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular culture , the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien 's works , and the publication of many books about Tolkien and his works .
The Lord of  the बजती रै प्रेरित , और continues to inspire , कलाकृति , म्यूज़िक , films और टेलीविज़न , वीडियो खेल , और subsequent साहित्य .
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings have been made for radio , theatre ,  और फिल्मी .
The following is an episode list for the  निकलोडियन  sitcom Drake & Josh .
The series  debuted on  January 11 , 2004 .
A TV  फिल्मी मैरी क्रिसमस , ड्रेक & जोश थी बना अलावा इससे the नियमित श्रेणी on दिसम्बर 5 , 2008 .
There are a total of 60  एपीसोड  were produced spanning four seasons .
Drake Bell , Josh Peck , and Miranda  cosgrove  were the only actors to appear in all 60 episodes .
The San Francisco 49ers conduct  प्रशिक्षण शिविर  at the team 's headquarters and practice facility in Santa Clara , California in August 2010 .
The offense is wearing red jerseys with the exception of quarterback Alex Smith  , who is in  a black jersey ; the defense in white .
In the National  फ़ुटबॉल लीग ,  training camp refers to the time before the season commences .
During this time , teams will sometimes congregate at an outside location , usually   a university , to conduct training camp for at least the first few weeks .
This is similar to baseball 's spring  प्रशिक्षण  .
Training camp is used in several  अलग तरीके .
New players and coaches use it to acclimate themselves to new  teammates  and systems .
लिये younger खिलाड़ी , it serves as a काल of मूल्यांकन ; लिये दिग्गजों , it is समय to गोलाकार वापस into रूप .
प्रशिक्षण शिविर is विभाजित into अनेक अलग components .
The first is  scrimmages  .
These  हैं  pseudo-games where teams run nearly full games ' worth of plays .
Sometimes , two practice  सत्र  are held on the same day .
This concept is referred to  as  two-a-days .
अन्य भाग of प्रशिक्षण शिविर शामिल drills , बैठक साथ कोच और अन्य खिलाड़ी at एक 's स्थिति , वज़न प्रशिक्षण ,  and pre-season games .
The  latter हाफ of प्रशिक्षण शिविर लीड सीधे into the प्रदर्शनी ऋतु .
With NFL training camps starting in late-July , the biggest concern has  महरूम निर्जलीकरण  .
In 2001 , Minnesota Vikings player Korey Stringer died of  a चिकित्सा कंडीशन  based from dehydration and heatstroke .
The death of Stringer prompted the NFL to change their training  नीतियों  .
At each practice , every team must have the team doctor and trainers on  the  field ; additionally , an ambulance must be present during practices .
साथ एनएफएल प्रशिक्षण शिविरों  beginning in late July , severe weather can affect practice and exhibition games .
In 2002 , a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to  बिजली  near Cleveland Browns Stadium , and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps .
Fans are often able to visit  उनके  favorite team 's training camp to catch an early look at the players ; admission to practices is often free or substantially less expensive than a game ticket , making training camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend many games due to financial or other reasons .
NFL teams often sell  souvenirs  and concessions at camp sites along with offering activities and events to make training camp a more fan-friendly experience .
In computing , a file system ( or filesystem ) is a type of data store  जिससे can be प्रयुक्त  to store , retrieve and update a set of files .
The term could refer to the abstract  आंकड़ा structures  used to define files , or to the actual software or firmware components that implement the abstract ideas .
Some file systems are used on local data storage devices ;  अन्य provide  file access via a network protocol ( e.g . NFS , SMB , or 9P clients ) .
Some file systems are `` virtual '' , in that the `` files '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g . procfs ) or are merely a mapping into  a  different file system used as a backing store .
The file   system manages access to both the content of files and the metadata about those files .
it is जिम्मेदार लिये arranging भंडार स्पेस ; विश्वसनीयता , दक्षता , और ट्यूनिंग साथ लिहाज़ to the शारीरिक भंडार मीडियम हैं महत्वपूर्ण डिज़ाइन considerations .
William Howard Taft ( September   15 , 1857 – March 8 , 1930 ) was the 27th President of the United States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ) .
He is the only person to have served in both of  ये  offices .
Before becoming President , Taft , a Republican  , थी चयनित  to serve on the Superior Court of Cincinnati in 1887 .
In 1890 , Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the United States and in 1891 a judge on  the United States  Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit .
In  1900 , अध्यक्ष  William McKinley appointed Taft Governor-General of the Philippines .
In 1904 , President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Taft Secretary of  युद्ध in an प्रयत्न to दूल्हे taft  , then his close political ally , into his handpicked presidential successor .
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving ,  assuming on कुछ अवसरों  the role of acting Secretary of State , while declining repeated offers from Roosevelt to serve on the Supreme Court .
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow Republican Roosevelt , Taft won an easy  विजय in उसके 1908 बोली लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी  .
In his only term , Taft 's domestic agenda emphasized trust-busting , civil service reform , strengthening the Interstate Commerce Commission  ,  improving the performance of the postal service , and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment .
Abroad   , Taft sought to further the economic development of nations in Latin America and Asia through `` Dollar Diplomacy `` , and showed decisiveness and restraint in response to revolution in Mexico .
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the political ramifications of his decisions , often alienated his own key constituencies ,  और थी overwhelmingly  defeated in his bid for a second term in the presidential election of 1912 .
In surveys of presidential  विद्वानों  , Taft is usually ranked near the middle of lists of all American Presidents .
After leaving office , Taft spent his time in academia , arbitration  , and the search for  world peace through his self-founded League to Enforce Peace .
in 1921 , बाद the पहला संसार युद्ध , अध्यक्ष वारेन G. हार्डिंग नियुक्त taft मुख्य इंसाफ of the संयुक्त राज्य .
Taft served in this capacity until shortly before his  मौत in  1930 .
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced and directed by Cecil B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of the Exodus , in which the Hebrew-born Moses , an adopted Egyptian prince ,   becomes the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves .
it स्ट्रक्चर चार्ल्टन हेस्टन in the सीसे भूमिका , yul brynner as उसके adoptive bhai , pharaoh rameses ii , ऐनी बैक्सटर as nefretiri , एडवर्ड G. रॉबिन्सन as dathan , yvonne de कार्लो as sephora , डेबरा पेजेट as lilia , और जॉन डेरेक as जोशुआ .
The supporting cast includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Pharaoh Seti I , Nina Foch as Bithiah , Martha Scott as Yoshebel , Judith Anderson as Memnet , Vincent Price  as Baka  , and John Carradine as Aaron .
The film   was released by Paramount Pictures in VistaVision on October 5 , 1956 .
The   Ten Commandments , which DeMille narrated , was the last film that he directed .
He was set  to सीधा the 1958 रीमेक of उसके 1938 फिल्मी the buccaneer , लकिन उसके फाइनल बीमारी मजबूर उसे to बाज़ the directing chores to उसके son-in-law , कर्ता एंथोनी क्विन .
DeMille had also planned to film the life of Lord Baden Powell , the founder of the Scout   movement , with David Niven ; this project was never realized .
The Ten Commandments  is a  partial remake of DeMille 's 1923 silent film .
Some of the cast and crew of the 1956  संस्करण  worked on the original .
It has since been remade as a  टेलीविज़न  miniseries broadcast in April 2006 .
The Ten Commandments is one of the most financially successful films ever made , grossing over $ 65 million at the U.S. box office   .
Adjusting for inflation , this makes it the sixth  highest-grossing फिल्मी  domestically , with an adjusted total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012 .
The box office website `` The Numbers '' lists the   domestic gross at $ 80 million .
In 1999 , The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as  होने `` culturally ,  historically , or aesthetically significant '' .
In June 2008 , the American Film Institute revealed its `` Ten Top Ten `` —the best ten films in ten American film genres—after polling over 1,500 people  इससे the रचनात्मक जातियाँ  .
The Ten Commandments  was  listed as the tenth best film in the epic genre .
The film received seven Academy Award nominations including Best Picture  ,  and won the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects .
चार्ल्टन हेस्टन थी मनोनीत लिये a सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन गति चित्र कर्ता in the नाटक  category .
Yul Brynner won  the नेशनल  Board of Review Award for Best Actor for his role as Rameses , along with his other roles in The King and I and Anastasia .
Louisville ( , or ) is a   major city and the largest city in the U.S. state of Kentucky and the county seat of Jefferson County .
Since 2003 , the city 's  सीमायें have महरूम साथ  those of the county because of a city-county merger .
The city 's total consolidated population at the 2010 census was 741,096 (  louisville 's संतुलन  total , 602,011 , excludes semi-autonomous towns and is the population listed in most sources and national rankings ) .
As of 2010 , the Louisville  महानगर क्षेत्रफल  ( MSA ) had a population of 1,307,647 ranking 42nd nationally .
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County  और  12 surrounding counties , eight in Kentucky and four in Southern Indiana ( see Geography below ) .
The Louisville Combined Statistical Area , having a population of 1,451,564 , includes the MSA , Hardin County and Larue County in Kentucky , and Scott County ,  इंडियाना  .
An important internal shipping port in the 19th century , Louisville today is best known as the location of the Kentucky Derby , the first of three annual thoroughbred  horse races  making up the Triple Crown .
a  typical experimental setup for an aldol reaction .
Both flasks are submerged in a dry ice/acetone cooling  नहाना ( −78 °c )  the temperature of which is being monitored by a thermocouple ( the wire on the left ) .
A cooling bath , in laboratory chemistry  ( प्रायः  but not always organic chemistry ) practice , is a liquid mixture which is used to maintain low temperatures , typically between 13 °C and −196 °C .
These low temperatures are used to collect liquids after distillation , to remove solvents using a rotary evaporator , or to perform a  रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया नीचे रूम तापमान  ( see : kinetic control ) .
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( particularly liquid  नाइट्रोजन , जल , or भी एयर ) — लकिन सबसे commonly the पद refers to ( b ) a मिश्रण of 3 components :  ( 1 ) a cooling agent ( such as dry ice or water ice ) ; ( b ) a liquid 'carrier ' ( such as liquid water , ethylene glycol , acetone , etc . ) , which transfers heat between the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system .
( A familiar example of this is the use of an  ice/rock-salt  mixture to freeze ice cream .
The phase-change of ice into liquid water  requires  energy , 'pulling ' heat from the system .
Adding salt  lowers the  temp at which this happens , meaning more energy has to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice .
This effectively makes the ice 'colder '  — it जरूर 'pull ' अधिक ऊष्मा इससे  its environment to become liquid . )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient or excessive food   intake to the detriment of an individual 's physical and mental health .
Bulimia nervosa and anorexia nervosa are the most common specific forms in the United   Kingdom .
Other types of eating disorders include binge eating disorder and eating disorder  नहीं वरना निर्दिष्ट  .
Bulimia nervosa is a disorder  characterized by  binge eating and purging .
Purging can include  self-induce  vomiting , over-exercising , and the usage of diuretics , enemas , and laxatives .
Anorexia nervosa is characterized by extreme food restriction to   the point of self-starvation and excessive weight loss .
Though primarily thought of as affecting females ( an estimated 5–10 million being affected in the U.K. )  , खाने विकार affect  males as well .
An estimated 10 – 15 % of people  साथ  eating disorders are males ( Gorgan , 1999 ) .
( an अनुमानित 1 लाख u.K. males होने प्रभावित ) .
Although eating  विकार हैं increasing सब over the संसार  among both men and women , there is evidence to suggest that it is women in the Western world who are at the highest risk of developing them and the degree of westernization increases the risk .
Nearly  हाफ of  all Americans personally know someone with an eating disorder .
the कौशल to comprehend the सेंट्रल प्रक्रियाओं of भूख रै increased tremendously चूंकि लेप्टिन थी खोजा , और the कौशल to observe the कृत्यों of  the brain as well .
Interactions between motivational ,  homeostatic  and self-regulatory control processes are involved in eating behaviour , which is a key component in eating disorders .
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely understood , but there is evidence that it may be linked to other medical conditions and  परिस्थितियों  .
Cultural idealization of thinness and  youthfulness  have contributed to eating disorders affecting diverse populations .
One study showed  कि लड़कियों साथ adhd  have a greater chance of getting an eating disorder than those not affected by ADHD .
Another study suggested that women with PTSD , especially due to sexually related trauma  , हैं  more likely to develop anorexia nervosa .
One study showed  कि फोस्टर  girls are more likely to develop bulimia nervosa .
Some think that peer pressure and idealized body-types   seen in the media are also a significant factor .
Some research show that for certain people there are genetic reasons  क्यों वे may be prone to विकासशील  an eating disorder .
Recent studies have found evidence a correlation   between patients with bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders .
In addition , anxiety disorders and personality  विकार हैं आम  occurrences with clients of eating disorders .
While  उचित उपचार can be अत्यधिक प्रभावी लिये अनेक कष्ट इससे विशिष्ट प्रकार of खाने विकार , the consequences of खाने विकार can be कठोर , सहित मौत ( whether इससे सीधा चिकित्सा प्रभाव of अशांत खाने आदतें or इससे comorbid शर्तें ऐसे as suicidal सोच ) .
Slavery in the United States existed from the early years of the colonial period ; it was firmly established by the time the  संयुक्त राज्य sought स्वतंत्रता  from Great Britain in 1776 .
However , by 1804 , all states north of the  मेसन और डिक्सन  Line had either abolished slavery outright or passed laws for the gradual abolition of slavery .
In 1787 Congress prohibited slavery in the Northwest   Territory .
But slavery gained new life in the South with the cotton  industry  after 1800 , and expanded into the Southwest .
The nation was polarized into   slave and free states along the Mason-Dixon Line , which separated Pennsylvania and Maryland .
The  United States  and Great Britain both prohibited the international slave trade in 1808 , but the domestic trade , with sales to the Deep South , expanded dramatically , and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade .
Before  the 1840s  , the South was vigorously defending slavery and its expansion into the territories .
In the North some abolitionists denounced it as sinful , and numerous anti-slavery forces rejected it   as detrimental to the rights of free men .
बाद विफल compromises और अब्राहम lincoln 's चुनाव , in 1861 ग्यारह स्लेव राज्य broke दूर to रूप the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका , अग्रणी to the अमरीकी सिविल  War .
The federal government in 1862 made abolition of  गुलामी  a war goal .
In January 1863 President Lincoln freed slaves in the Confederacy  through the emancipation  Proclamation .
After the war , the Thirteenth Amendment , effective December 1865 , abolished slavery throughout the entire United  राज्य  , including the Border states and the Indian territories .
From the 16th to the 19th centuries , an estimated 12 million Africans were   shipped as slaves to the Americas .
See Slavery in the  americas  .
the ग्रेट बहुमत गई to the शुगर बागानों of the वेस्ट इंडीज or ब्राज़ील , जहाँ मृत्यु थी ऊँची  .
About 645,000 were brought to what  is  now the United States .
By the 1860 United States Census , the slave population in the American South had grown to four  million  .
Of all 1,515,605  परिवारों in the 15 स्लेव राज्य , nearly 400,000 आयोजित स्लेव ( roughly एक in चार ) , amounting to 8 % of सब अमरीकी परिवारों .
While some slaves worked as house servants and  शहरी  artisans , the great majority worked on plantations or large farms , cultivating lucrative cash crops , such as rice , tobacco , sugar and , after 1800 , chiefly cotton .
By 1860 most slaves were held in  the Deep  South , where they served in work-gangs ; two-thirds worked in cotton .
In small operations , they  worked  with their owners .
In large plantations they were directed by white  सशुल्क  overseers .
Under the system that became chattel slavery ( ownership of a human  होने , और of his/her वंशजों ) , a जातिगत  element was fundamental : slaves were blacks of African descent and owned , almost universally , by whites of European descent .
In the 17th century , Virginia , followed by other southern colonies , enacted law that  children  of slave mothers were born into slavery .
स्लेव could लाभ स्वतंत्रता तभी by कार्यशील दूर ( जिससे थी मुश्किल और illegal to do ) , or by manumission by स्वामी , जिससे थी regulated by राज्य , और became increasingly मुश्किल or निषिद्ध  .
In the earliest era of chattel slavery , the colonies also organized work by a  प्रणाली of  bonded labor known as indentured servitude .
This  typically  lasted for several years for both poor Europeans and Africans alike , to pay off the costs of transport to the colonies .
They contracted for such arrangements because of poor economies in their home   countries .
Between 1680 and 1700 , as fewer Europeans migrated to the colonies , planters began to   import more Africans as slaves .
Recognizing  the  importance of slavery , the House of Burgesses in Virginia enacted a new slave code in 1705 ; it combined a variety of legislation and added new provisions enforcing white supremacy in the law .
schematic  cross section of part of leaf , xylem shown as red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem is  एक  of the two types of transport tissue in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον (  xylon  ) , meaning `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is wood , though it is found throughout the plant .
Its basic function is to transport water , but it also transports some nutrients through  the  plant .
This clock representation shows some of the major units of geological   time and definitive events of Earth history .
The Hadean eon represents the time before  चट्टान रिकार्ड  of life on Earth ; its upper boundary is now regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion years ago ) .
Other subdivisions reflect the evolution of life ; the Archean and Proterozoic are both  eons , the palaeozoic  , Mesozoic and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon .
The two million year  quaternary  period , the time of recognizable humans , is too small to be visible at this scale .
the भूगर्भिक समय स्केल is a प्रणाली of कालानुक्रमिक मापन कि relates स्तरिकी to समय , और is प्रयुक्त by geologists , paleontologists , और अन्य धरती वैज्ञानिकों to describe the समय और संबंध between कार्यक्रम कि have occurred throughout धरती 's  history .
The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees with the dates and nomenclature set forth by the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय आयोग on  Stratigraphy standard color codes of the International Commission on Stratigraphy .
Evidence from radiometric dating indicates   that the Earth is about 4.54 billion years old .
The geology or deep time of Earth 's past has been organized into various units according to events which took place  in प्रत्येक काल  .
Different spans of time on the GTS are usually delimited  by परिवर्तन in  the composition of strata which correspond to them , indicating major geological or paleontological events , such as mass extinctions .
For example , the boundary  between the cretaceous  period and the Paleogene period is defined by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event , which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life .
Older time spans which predate the reliable fossil record ( before the Proterozoic Eon ) are defined by  absolute  age .
The TI-82 is a graphing calculator made  by  Texas Instruments .
The TI-82  थी designed in 1993  as a stripped down , more user friendly version of the TI-85 , and as a replacement for the TI-81 .
It was the direct  पूर्ववर्ती  of the TI-83 .
It shares with the TI-85 a 6 MHz Zilog  z80 माइक्रोप्रोसेसर  .
Like the TI-81 , the TI-82 features a 96x64 pixel display ,  और  the core feature set of the TI-81 with many new features .
The cast of characters of The  किंग  of Fighters XI .
The King of Fighters fighting game series , produced by SNK  playmore , शामिल  a wide cast of characters , some of which are taken from other SNK games .
The story  takes place in a  fictional universe in which an annual series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held .
The first game in the series introduces the initial  प्रमुख अक्षर of  the series , Kyo Kusanagi , a young Japanese fighter who is the heir to a powerful group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities .
Kyo fights against the Kusanagi clan  's enemies ,  his rival Iori Yagami , and the god Orochi and its human followers , among others .
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights , while The King of Fighters '99 introduces  a new story arc ,  revolving around K ' , a young man who seeks to destroy the mysterious NESTS organization because they kidnapped him at an early age and stripped him of his past memories , so that they could force him to be a fighter under their control .
In The King of Fighters 2003 , a new character named Ash Crimson enters the tournament , to steal the powers of the clans who  sealed the orochi  in the past for an unknown reason .
A new group of antagonists , known as Those From the Past , also appears in the series ; they want to obtain Orochi 's power for the purpose of giving it to  their unknown  master .
The plot and the characters came from the Yamata no  orochi  legend .
There are also several characters in the games  कि हैं parodies  or homages to several popular anime , manga , and films .
Merchandise   based on the characters has also been released , including action figures and keychains .
The characters have garnered praise from several  वीडियो खेल publications  for the quality of their designs and movesets .
टिप्पणी केन्द्रित on the कमी of सुधार  in some of the characters , but added that the roster is greatly diverse .
Whale Wars is a weekly American documentary-style reality television  श्रेणी  that premiered on November 7 , 2008 on the Animal Planet cable channel .
The program follows Paul Watson , founder of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society , as he and the crew aboard their various  बरतन harass जापानी  whalers off the coast of Antarctica .
On January 5 , 2013 ,  एनिमल  Planet renewed the series for a sixth season .
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia harpyja )  is  a Neotropical species of eagle .
It is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish it from the Papuan Eagle which is sometimes known as the New   Guinea Harpy Eagle or Papuan Harpy Eagle .
It is the largest and most powerful raptor found in the Americas , and among the largest extant  प्रजाति  of eagles in the world .
it प्रायः inhabits तीव्र lowland rainforests in the अपर ( emergent ) canopy परत  .
विनाश  of its natural habitat has seen it vanish from many parts of its former range , and it is nearly extirpated in Central America .
Biological classification , or scientific classification in biology , is a method of scientific taxonomy used to group and categorize organisms into groups such  as genus or प्रजाति  .
These groups   are known as taxa ( singular : taxon ) .
Modern biological classification has its root in the work of Carolus Linnaeus , who  grouped  species according to shared physical characteristics .
These groupings have since been revised to improve consistency with the  darwinian  principle of common descent .
With the introduction  of  the cladistic method in the late 20th century , phylogenetic taxonomy in which organisms are grouped based purely on inferred evolutionary relatedness , ignoring morphological similarity , has become common in some areas of biology .
Molecular  phylogenetics  , which uses DNA sequences as data , has also driven many recent revisions and is likely to continue doing so .
Biological classification belongs to the  विज्ञान of  biological systematics .
Lennon 's  हस्ताक्षर
John Winston Ono Lennon , ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an English   musician , singer and songwriter who rose to worldwide fame as a founder member of the Beatles , one of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music .
With Paul McCartney , he formed one of the most celebrated   songwriting partnerships of the 20th century .
Born and raised in Liverpool , as a teenager Lennon became involved in the skiffle craze ; his  पहला बैंड , the quarrymen  , evolved into the Beatles in 1960 .
As the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade , Lennon embarked on a solo career that produced the critically acclaimed albums   John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine , and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` Imagine `` .
After his marriage to Yoko Ono in  1969 , he  changed his name to John Ono Lennon .
Lennon disengaged himself from the music business in 1975 to devote time to raising his infant  बेटे  Sean , but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the new album Double Fantasy .
He was murdered three weeks after  इसके  release .
Lennon revealed a rebellious nature and acerbic wit in his music , writing , drawings , on film and  in  interviews .
Controversial through his political and peace activism ,  he moved to New York City in 1971 , where his criticism of  the Vietnam War resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's administration to deport him , while some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement .
As of 2012 , Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 million units  , और as  writer , co-writer or performer , he is responsible for 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 chart .
In 2002 , a BBC poll on the 100 Greatest  britons voted  him eighth , and in 2008 , Rolling Stone ranked him the fifth-greatest singer of all time .
He was posthumously inducted  into  the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 1987 and into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1994 .
Statue of Rip van Winkle in Irvington  , New York ,  not far from `` Sunnyside `` , the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a short story by American author Washington Irving published in 1819 ,  as खूब  as the name of the story 's fictional protagonist .
Written while Irving was  जीना  in Birmingham , England , it was part of a collection entitled The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon .
Although the story  is नियत in नई  York 's Catskill Mountains , Irving later admitted , `` When I wrote the story , I had never been on the Catskills . ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy Awards , many  significant  records have been set .
This page only includes the competitive   awards won by various artists .
This does not  शामिल the विभिन्न खास पुरस्कार कि हैं प्रस्तुत by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग कला और sciences ऐसे as आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार , trustees पुरस्कार , तकनीकी पुरस्कार or लेजेंड पुरस्कार .
The page however does include other  non-performance  related Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ) .
pee-wee herman  is a comic fictional character created and portrayed by American comedian Paul Reubens .
He is best known for his two television series and film series during the  1980s  .
The childlike Pee-wee Herman  अक्षर विकसित  as a stage act that quickly led to an HBO special in 1981 .
As the stage performance gained further popularity , Reubens took the character to motion picture with Pee-wee 's Big Adventure in 1985 , toning down the adult innuendo  for the appeal  of children .
This paved the way for Pee-wee 's Playhouse , an Emmy Award  जीतना  children 's series that ran on CBS from 1986-1991 .
Another film , Big Top  pee-wee ,  was released in 1988 .
Due to negative media attention  following a कांड in 1991 , reubens decided to shelve  his alter ego during the 1990s , and then gradually resurrected it during the following decade .
it  was at that time that Reubens addressed plans to write a new Pee-wee film , Pee-wee 's Playhouse : The Movie .
In June 2007 , Reubens   appeared as Pee-wee Herman for the first time since 1991 at Spike TV 's Guys ' Choice Awards .
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives  of a group  of teenage friends living in the fictional suburban town of Point Place , Wisconsin , from May 17 , 1976 , to December 31 , 1979 .
It debuted on the Fox television network , first airing on August  23  , 1998 , running for eight consecutive seasons , and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18 , 2006 .
The main teenage cast members were Topher Grace , Mila Kunis , Ashton Kutcher , Danny Masterson  , लौरा prepon  , and Wilmer Valderrama .
The main adult cast members were Debra Jo Rupp , Kurtwood Smith , Don Stark and , during the  first three  seasons , Tanya Roberts .
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. state located in the Midwestern  संयुक्त राज्य  .
It is named after the Kansas River  जिससे बहती  through it , which in turn was named after the Kansa Native American tribe , which inhabited the area .
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often said to mean `` people of the wind '' or `` people of the south wind  , '' although  this was probably not the term 's original meaning .
Residents   of Kansas are called `` Kansans . ''
For thousands of years what is now Kansas was home to numerous and  विविध  Native American tribes .
Tribes in the Eastern part of  the  state generally lived in villages along the river valleys .
Tribes in the Western part of the state  were  semi- nomadic and hunted large herds of bison .
Kansas was first settled  by  European Americans in the 1830s , but the pace of settlement accelerated in the 1850s , in the midst of political wars over the slavery issue .
When officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854 , abolitionist Free-Staters from New England and pro-slavery  settlers इससे neighboring  Missouri rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state .
Thus , the area was a hotbed of violence and chaos in its early days as these forces collided , and was known  as  Bleeding Kansas .
The abolitionists eventually  prevailed और  on January 29 , 1861 , Kansas entered the Union as a free state .
After the  सिविल युद्ध , the जनसांख्यिकी  of Kansas grew rapidly , when waves of immigrants turned the prairie into farmland .
Today , Kansas is one of the most productive agricultural states  ,  producing high yields of wheat , sorghum and sunflowers .
Kansas is the 15th most extensive and the  33rd सबसे  populous of the 50 United States .
Psychology is an  अकादमिक और लागू अनुशासन  that involves the scientific study of mental functions and behaviors .
Psychology has the immediate goal of understanding  individuals  and groups by both establishing general principles and researching specific cases , and by many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society .
In this field  ,  a professional or researcher is called a psychologist and can be classified as a social , behavioral , or cognitive scientist .
Psychologists attempt to understand  the भूमिका of दिमागी कृत्यों in व्यक्तिगत  and social behavior , while also exploring the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors .
Psychologists explore concepts such as perception ,  संज्ञान ,  attention , emotion , phenomenology , motivation , brain functioning , personality , behavior , and interpersonal relationships .
Psychologists of diverse stripes also consider the   unconscious mind .
psychologists employ अनुभवजन्य विधि  to infer causal and correlational relationships between psychosocial variables .
In addition , or in opposition , to employing empirical and deductive methods , some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic interpretation  और अन्य  inductive techniques .
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '' , with psychological findings linking to research and perspectives  from  the social sciences , natural sciences , medicine , and the humanities , such as philosophy .
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and treatment of mental health problems , it is also  directed towards  understanding and solving problems in many different spheres of human activity .
The majority of  psychologists  are involved in some kind of therapeutic role , practicing in clinical , counseling , or school settings .
अनेक do वैज्ञानिक शोध on a चौड़ी दायरा of विषय सम्बन्धित to दिमागी प्रक्रियाओं और बर्ताव , और typically कार्य in विश्वविद्यालयों मनोविज्ञान विभाग or सिखा in अन्य अकादमिक जमावट ( e.g. , चिकित्सा स्कूलों , अस्पताल ) .
Some are employed in industrial and organizational settings , or in other areas such as human development and aging ,  खेल , स्वास्थ्य , और the मीडिया ,  as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law .
Thomas  जेफरसन ( अप्रैल 13 , 1743  ( April 2 , 1743 O.S. ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was an American Founding Father , the principal author of the Declaration of Independence ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ) .
At the beginning of the American Revolution , he served in the Continental Congress ,  representing वर्जिनिया  and then served as a wartime Governor of Virginia ( 1779–1781 ) .
Just after the war ended ,  इससे mid-1784  Jefferson served as a diplomat , stationed in Paris .
In May 1785 ,  he  became the United States Minister to France .
Jefferson was the first United States Secretary of  राज्य ( 1790–1793  ) serving under President George Washington .
With his   close friend James Madison he organized the Democratic-Republican Party , and subsequently resigned from Washington 's cabinet .
Elected Vice President in 1796 , when he came in second to John Adams of the Federalists , Jefferson opposed Adams and with Madison secretly wrote the Kentucky and Virginia  रिज़ॉल्यूशन , जिससे  attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts .
Elected president in what Jefferson called the Revolution of 1800 , he oversaw the purchase of the vast Louisiana Territory from France ( 1803 ) , and sent the Lewis and Clark  expedition ( 1804–1806  ) to explore the new west .
His second  पद थी घिरा साथ परेशानियों at घर , ऐसे as the विफल देशद्रोह विचारण of उसके पूर्व वाइस अध्यक्ष आरोन burr .
With escalating trouble with Britain who was challenging  अमरीकी  neutrality and threatening shipping at sea , he tried economic warfare with his embargo laws which only damaged American trade .
In 1803 , President Jefferson initiated a process of Indian  जनजातीय हटाना और relocation  to the Louisiana Territory west of the Mississippi River , in order to open lands for eventual American settlers .
A leader in the Enlightenment , Jefferson was a polymath who spoke five languages  fluently and was deeply interested in science ,  invention , architecture , religion and philosophy , interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency .
He designed his own large mansion on a 5,000 acre plantation  निकट charlottesville  , Virginia , which he named Monticello .
While not a notable orator , Jefferson was  a skilled  writer and corresponded with many influential people in America and Europe throughout his adult life .
Though Jefferson owned many slaves , he opposed the institution all his life and consequently treated and took care  of उन्हें बहुत खूब और अपेक्षित  them to work no more than free farmers .
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided  over the  controversy of whether Jefferson was the father of one or more children belonging to Sally Hemings , a slave at Monticello . ''
Historians are  भी in असहमति  with how much Jefferson was committed to the anti-slavery cause .
In 1807 ,  अध्यक्ष  Jefferson signed into law a bill that banned the importation of slaves into the United States .
After Martha Jefferson , his wife of eleven  सालो  , died in 1782 , Jefferson remained a widower for the rest of his life ; their marriage produced six children , of whom two survived to adulthood .
Though Jefferson has  महरूम  criticized by many modern day scholars over the issue of slavery , he remains rated as one of the greatest U.S. presidents .
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written by Steven Van Zandt , produced by Van Zandt and Arthur Baker and recorded by Artists United Against Apartheid to  convey विपक्ष  to the South African policy of apartheid .
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the artists involved would refuse any and all offers to perform at Sun City , a resort which was located  in Bantustan of Bophuthatswana , one of a  number of internationally unrecognized supposed `` independent '' states created by the South African government to forcibly relocate its black population .
This page is a list of characters in the Police Academy  film  and television series .
विधेयक रसेल जीती 11 championships साथ the बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स  .
This is a list of NBA players  साथ सबसे  championships won as a player .
The National Basketball  संघ ( एनबीए ) is a प्रमुख पेशेवर  basketball league in North America .
It  was  founded in 1946 as the Basketball Association of America ( BAA ) .
The league adopted its current name at the start of the when  it मिलाया  with the National Basketball League ( NBL ) .
The NBA Finals is the championship series for the NBA  and  the conclusion of the sport 's postseason .
The winning team of the series receives the Larry  o'brien चैंपियनशिप  Trophy .
Players from the  जीतना टोली प्रायः  receive championship rings from the team honoring their contribution .
However , in some rare occasion  ,  the teams opted to gave other commemorative items , such as wrist watches , instead of rings .
the क्रमांक of championships जीती by एनबीए सुपरस्टार is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a मापन of उनके विशालता  .
Boston   Celtics center Bill Russell holds the record for the most NBA championships won with 11 titles during his 13-year playing career .
He won his  पहला  championship with the Boston Celtics in his rookie year .
Afterwards  , he  went on to win 10 championships in the next 12 years , including eight consecutive championships from 1959 to 1966 .
He won the last two  championships in  1968 and 1969 as player-coach .
Russell 's teammate , Sam Jones , won 10 championships from  1959 to 1969  , the second most in NBA history .
Four Celtics players , Tom Heinsohn , K. C. Jones  ,  Satch Sanders and John Havlicek , won eight championships each .
Two other Celtics , Jim Loscutoff and Frank Ramsey  , जीती  seven championships each .
Four players , Bob Cousy , Kareem Abdul-Jabbar , Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen , won six   championships each .
जॉर्डन और pippen  are members of the Chicago Bulls team who won three consecutive championships twice in the 1990s .
Robert Horry and John Salley are the only players to have won the championships with  तीन अलग टीमों  .
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets , the Los Angeles Lakers and the San Antonio Spurs , while Salley won four championships with the Detroit Pistons , the  bulls और  the Lakers .
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr are the only  खिलाड़ी to जीत दो  championships with two different teams in consecutive seasons .
Saul won consecutive  championships  with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s , while Kerr won consecutive championships with the Bulls and the Spurs in the 1990s,
Accuracy  indicates proximity of  measurement results to the true value , precision to the repeatability , or reproducibility of the measurement
In the fields of science , engineering ,  उद्योग , और आंकडे , the सटीकता  of a measurement system is the degree of closeness of measurements of a quantity to that quantity 's actual ( true ) value .
The precision of a measurement system , also  पुकारा  reproducibility or repeatability , is the degree to which repeated measurements under unchanged conditions show the same results .
Although the two words reproducibility and repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial use ,  वे  are deliberately contrasted in the context of the scientific method .
A measurement system can be accurate but not precise , precise but not accurate ,  neither  , or both .
For example , if an experiment contains a systematic error , then increasing the sample size generally increases precision  but does  not improve accuracy .
The result would be a consistent yet inaccurate   string of results from the flawed experiment .
Eliminating the systematic error  improves सटीकता  but does not change precision .
A  मापन  system is designated valid if it is both accurate and precise .
Related terms include bias ( non- random or directed effects caused by a factor or factors unrelated to the independent  परिवर्तनीय )  and error ( random variability ) .
The terminology is also applied to indirect measurements—that is , values obtained by a computational   procedure from observed data .
In addition to  सटीकता और परिशुद्धता , माप  may also have a measurement resolution , which is the smallest change in the underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement .
In the case of full reproducibility , such as when rounding a number  to a  representable floating point number , the word precision has a meaning not related to reproducibility .
For example , in the IEEE 754-2008 standard it means the number of bits in the significand , so it is used as  a measure  for the relative accuracy with which an arbitrary number can be represented .
Fuck in its literal meaning refers to the act of sexual  मैथुन  .
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity , either to denote  disdain or as an  intensifier .
The origin of the word  is  obscure .
It is usually considered to be first attested  to around  1475 , but it may be considerably older .
In modern usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking ) can be used in the  स्थिति of a संज्ञा , a क्रिया ,  an adjective or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the word , as  खूब as  a number of compounds incorporating it , such as motherfucker .
Animated , color-coded map showing the  विभिन्न  continents and regions .
depending on the सम्मेलन और  model , some continents may be consolidated or subdivided : for example , Eurasia is most often subdivided into Europe and Asia ( red shades ) , while North and South America are sometimes recognized as one American continent ( green shades ) .
A continent is one of several  very  large landmasses on Earth .
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria , with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they are ( from largest in size to smallest ) : Asia ,  अफ़्रीकी  , North America , South America , Antarctica , Europe , and Australia .
In geology , continents are described by means  of tectonic  plates .
Plate tectonics is the process  और पढ़ाई  of the movement , collision and division of continents , earlier known as continental drift .
Biker Boyz is a 2003 film about a group of underground  मोटरसाइकिल खीचें racers  .
It stars Laurence Fishburne , Djimon Hounsou , Derek Luke , Meagan Good , and Larenz Tate and is  लिखा और निर्देशित by reggie चट्टान bythewood  .
It also features Lisa Bonet , Orlando Jones , Kid Rock and Vanessa  घंटी  Calloway .
लिये the  Steel Panther song , see Feel the Steel .
Community property is a marital property regime that originated in civil law jurisdictions and is now also  मिला in कुछ आम विधि jurisdictions  .
The states of the United States that recognize community property are primarily in the West ; it was inherited  from Mexico 's ganancial community  system , which itself was inherited from Spanish law ( a Roman -derived civil law system ) and ultimately from the Visigoths .
While  under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted the  ganancial community system of acquests and gains , which replaced the traditional French community of movables and acquests in its civil law system .
Map of the United States with  जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी  states highlighted in red .
In addition to the highlighted states , Alaska is a separate property state that  permits  couples to opt into a community property arrangement .
In a community property jurisdiction , most property acquired during the marriage ( except for gifts or inheritances ) —the community , or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is  विभाजित upon तलाक , annulment or मौत  .
संयुक्त स्वामित्व is automatically presumed by विधि in the अनुपस्थिति of विशिष्ट प्रमाण कि होता पाइंट to a contrary निष्कर्ष लिये a particular टुकड़ा of प्रॉपर्टी .
Division  of  community property may take place by item , by splitting all items or by value .
In some jurisdictions , such as California , a 50/50 division of community property is strictly mandated by statute , meaning that the focus then shifts to  whether particular वस्तुएं हैं  to be classified as community or separate property .
In other  jurisdictions , ऐसे as  Texas , a divorce court may decree an `` equitable distribution `` of community property , which may result in an unequal division of such .
In  non-community  property states property may be divided by equitable distribution .
Generally speaking  , the  property that each partner brings into the marriage or receives by gift , bequest or devise during marriage is called separate property ( i.e. , not community property ) .
See  प्रभाग  of property .
Division of  जातियाँ debts may नहीं  be the same as division of community property .
For example , in California , community property is required to be divided `` equally '' while community  कर्ज़  is required to be divided `` equitably '' .
Property that is owned by one spouse before the marriage is the separate   property of that spouse , unless the property is `` transmuted '' into community property .
The rules for this vary from jurisdiction   to jurisdiction .
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge  हिलाता to the  crowd at The Mall shortly after the wedding .
The wedding of Prince William , Duke  of  Cambridge , and Catherine Middleton took place on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey in London .
The groom , Prince William , Duke of Cambridge , is the eldest son of Charles , Prince of Wales , and is second in the  line  of succession to the British Throne and the thrones of fifteen other Commonwealth realms .
the बहू , कैथरीन `` केट '' मिडलटन is the ज्येष्ठ of तीन children of माइकल और carole मिडलटन of bucklebury , बर्कशायर .
The  डीन of  Westminster , John Hall , presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams , conducted the marriage ; Richard Chartres , the Bishop of London , preached the sermon ; and a reading was given by the bride 's brother , James .
William 's best man was his brother , Prince Harry , while the bride 's sister , Pippa , was maid of  इज्ज़त  .
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and groom 's  परिवारों , as खूब as अनेक  foreign royals , diplomats , and the couple 's chosen personal guests .
After the ceremony , the couple made the  परंपरागत  appearance on the balcony of Buckingham Palace .
As  प्रिंस विलियम थी नहीं the वारिस apparent to the सिंहासन , the विवाह थी नहीं a पूरा राज्य अवसर और अनेक विवरण यहूद बाएँ to the युगल to decide , ऐसे as much of the अतिथि सूची of परिचय 1,900 .
Prince  विलियम  and Kate Middleton met in 2001 .
Their engagement on 20 October 2010 was   announced on 16 November 2010 .
the build-up to the विवाह और the अवसर itself आकर्षित much मीडिया ध्यान , होने compared in अनेक तरीके साथ the 1981 विवाह of विलियम 's अभिभावक  .
The occasion was a public holiday in the United Kingdom and featured many ceremonial aspects , including use of the state carriages and  roles for the  Foot Guards and Household Cavalry .
Events  यहूद आयोजित around the राष्ट्रमंडल to चिह्नित the विवाह ; संगठनों और होटल आयोजित कार्यक्रम आरपार कनाडा , over 5,000 गली पार्टियों यहूद आयोजित throughout the संयुक्त किंगडम , और एक लाख लोगों lined the रूट between वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी और बकिंघम राजमहल .
The ceremony was viewed live  by  tens of millions more around the world , including 72 million on the YouTube Royal Channel .
In the  संयुक्त किंगडम  , television audiences peaked at 26.3 million viewers , with a total of 36.7 million watching part of the coverage .
Vanessa Joy Lachey ( née Minnillo ; born November 9 , 1980 ) is an American television  व्यक्तित्व  , television host , fashion model , and actress .
Minnillo was  भी  named Miss Teen USA in 1998 .
She has been a New York -based correspondent for Entertainment Tonight and hosted Total  निवेदन सजीव  on MTV .
A hand ( med . / lat . : manus , pl . manūs ) is a prehensile , multi- fingered extremity  स्तिथ  at the end of an arm or forelimb of primates and humans , chimpanzees , monkeys , and lemurs .
A few other vertebrates such as the koala ( which  has  two opposable thumbs on each `` hand '' and fingerprints remarkably similar to human fingerprints ) are often described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs .
Hands are the main structures for physically manipulating the environment , used for both gross motor skills ( such as grasping a large object ) and fine motor  कौशल ( ऐसे as picking up  a small pebble ) .
The fingertips contain some of the densest areas of nerve endings on the  body , are the  richest source of tactile feedback , and have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands .
Like  other paired  organs ( eyes , feet , legs ) , each hand is dominantly controlled by the opposing brain hemisphere , so that handedness , or the preferred hand choice for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil , reflects individual brain functioning .
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage  of digits on the forelimb  more generally — for example , in the context of whether the three digits of the bird hand involved the same homologous loss of two digits as in the dinosaur hand .
The human hand has 27 bones , not including the  sesamoid हड्डियों जिससे  number varies between people .
14 of which are the  phalanges ( proximal  , intermediate and distal ) of the fingers .
the  metacarpals are the bones that connects the fingers and the wrist .
Each human hand has 5 metacarpals and  8  carpal bones .
Too Cool  was a  professional wrestling tag team and former faction most notably active in World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short time in 2004 .
Basic  डिजिटल  alarm clock without a radio .
The mark in the top-left of the display  indicates  that the time is 4:00pm , not 4:00am .
A 1969 radio alarm clock  (  Sony Digimatic 8FC-59W ) with an early mechanical-digital display .
A digital clock is a type of clock that displays the time digitally , i.e . in numerals or other symbols , as opposed to an analog clock , where the time is indicated by the positions  of घूर्णन हैंड्स  .
Digital clocks are often associated with  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  drives , but the `` digital '' description refers only to the display , not to the drive mechanism .
( Both analog and digital clocks can be driven either mechanically or  electronically  , but `` clockwork '' mechanisms with digital displays are rare . )
The biggest digital clock is the Lichtzeitpegel ( `` Light Time Level '' ) on the television tower  rheinturm  Düsseldorf , Germany .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter Griffin , Stewie Griffin , Brian Griffin , and  ग्लेन कीचड़  .
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features five main voice actors , and numerous regular cast and recurring  अतिथि  stars .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex Borstein , Seth Green ,  mila kunis  ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West , John G. Brennan , Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly , and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh  ,  and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast members   provide voices for multiple characters .
The voice actors , in portraying the various character personalities on the show , draw inspiration   from celebrities and pop culture .
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one actor , after members of the show left the series or had conflicting  दायित्वों  .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice  Acting in an Animated  Television Production , though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series .
The five sets of the board game Monopoly depicted here  दिखाएँ the  evolution of the game 's artwork and designs in the United States from 1935–2005 .
The history of the board game   Monopoly can be traced back to the early 20th century .
The earliest known design was by the American , Elizabeth   Magie , patented in 1904 but existing as early as 1902 .
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to  illustrate  an economic principle , namely the Georgist concept of a single land value tax .
A series of board games were developed from 1906 through the 1930s that involved the buying and selling of land  और the विकास of कि  land .
By 1934 , a board game had been created much like the version of Monopoly sold by Parker Brothers and its related companies through the rest   of the 20th century , and into the 21st .
Several people , mostly  in the midwestern  United States and near the East Coast , contributed to the game 's design and evolution .
By the 1970s , the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ; it was printed  in the game 's  instructions for many years , in a 1974 book devoted to Monopoly , and was cited in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007 .
Even a guide to family games published for Reader 's Digest in 2003 only gave credit to Darrow and Elizabeth Magie ,  erroneously  stating that Magie 's original game was created in the 1800s , and not acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game , and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers .
Also in the 1970s , Professor Ralph Anspach , who had himself published a board game intended to illustrate the principles of both monopolies and trust busting , fought Parker Brothers and its then parent company , General Mills , over the trademarks of the  Monopoly board  game .
through the शोध of anspach और अन्य , much of the जल्दी इतिहास of the खेल थी `` rediscovered '' .
Anspach  confronted maxine ब्रैडी  , author of the 1974 book The Monopoly Book : Strategy and Tactics of the World 's Most Popular Game over the actual history of the game on Barry Farber 's New York City talk show in 1975 .
Because of the lengthy court  प्रक्रम , सहित appeals  , the legal status of Parker Brothers ' trademarks on the game was not settled until 1985 .
The game 's name remains a registered trademark of Parker Brothers , as do its specific design elements   .
At the conclusion of the  court case , the game 's logo and  graphic design elements became part of a larger Monopoly brand , licensed by Parker Brothers ' parent companies onto a variety of items through the present day .
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the 1970s and 1980s , and several books and journal articles on the  विषय , हास्ब्रो ( पार्कर भाइयो  ' current parent company ) did not acknowledge any of the game 's history before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012 .
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone other than Darrow in materials  published  or sponsored by them , at least as recently as 2006 .
International tournaments , first held in the  जल्दी 1970s  , continue to the present , with the next world championship likely scheduled for 2013 .
Starting  in 1985 , a नई  generation of spin-off board games and card games appeared on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean .
In 1989 , the first  of many video game  and computer game editions was published .
Since 1994 , many official variants of the game , based on locations other than Atlantic City , New Jersey  (  the official U.S. setting ) or London ( the official Commonwealth setting , excepting Canada ) , have been published by Hasbro or its licensees .
In 2008 , Hasbro permanently changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the standard U.S . Edition of the game to  मैच  the UK Edition , although the U.S. standard edition maintains the Atlantic City property names .
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr . Monopoly '' character a 3-D computer-generated look , which has since been adopted by licensees USAopoly , Winning Moves  और जीतना समाधान  .
And Hasbro has also been including the Speed Die , introduced in 2006 's Monopoly : The Mega Edition by Winning Moves Games , in versions produced directly by  हास्ब्रो ( ऐसे as the 2009  Championship Edition ) .
In baseball , a sacrifice fly is a batted ball that satisfies four   criteria:
There are fewer than two outs when  the ball  is hit .
The ball is hit to the outfield  (  fair or foul ) , or to infield foul territory .
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield , or foul territory ) catches the ball on the fly  ( alternatively if the  batter would have been out if not for an error or if the outfielder drops the ball and another runner is put out ) .
a  runner who is already on base scores on the play .
It is called a `` sacrifice '' fly because the batter presumably intends to cause a teammate to score a  run  , while sacrificing his own ability to do so .
Minnesota ( ) is a U.S. state located  in the  Midwestern United States .
Minnesota was carved out of the eastern  half of the  Minnesota Territory and admitted to the Union as the 32nd state on May 11 , 1858 .
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '' , the state 's name comes from a Dakota word for `` sky-tinted water  ''  .
Those waters , together with forests , parks , and wilderness areas , offer residents  और  tourists a variety of outdoor recreational opportunities .
मिनेसोटा is the 12th सबसे extensive और the 21st सबसे populous of the u.S. राज्य  .
Nearly  60 % of its residents live in the  Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area ( known as the `` Twin Cities '' ) , the center of transportation , business , industry , education , government and home to an internationally known arts community .
The remainder of the state consists of western  prairies now given over to  intensive agriculture ; deciduous forests in the southeast , now cleared , farmed and settled ; and the less populated North Woods , used for mining , forestry , and recreation .
Minnesota is known for its relatively mixed social and political  orientations ,  and has a high rate of civic participation and voter turnout .
Minnesota  बाँधने among  the healthiest states , and has a highly literate population .
The large majority of residents are  of  Scandinavian and German descent .
The state is known as a center  of  Scandinavian American culture .
Ethnic diversity has increased  in हाल  decades .
Substantial influxes of Asian , African , and Latin American immigrants have joined the descendants of European settlers and the original  देशी अमरीकी निवासियों  .
Grants are non-repayable funds by one party ( grant makers  )  , often a government department , corporation , foundation or trust , to a , often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity , educational institution , business or an individual .
In order to receive  a  grant , some form of `` Grant Writing '' often referred to as either a proposal or an application is usually required .
Most grants are made to fund a specific project and require some   level of compliance and reporting .
The grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a potential funder , either on the applicant 's own initiative or in response  to a Request  for Proposal from the funder .
Other grants can be given to individuals , such as victims of natural disasters or individuals who seek to open a  छोटी कारोबार  .
Sometimes grant makers require grant seekers to have some form of  tax-exempt औकात , be a पंजीकृत  nonprofit organization or a local government .
For example , tiered   funding for a freeway are very large grants negotiated at government policy level .
However smaller grants may be provided by a government agency ( e.g .  नगरपालिका  government ) .
Project-related funding  involving सरकारें , कारोबार , समुदायों , और individuals is प्रायः arranged by अनुप्रयोग either in लिखने or ऑनलाइन .
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope , 59Co . 28 radioisotopes have been  characterized  with the most stable being 60Co with a half-life of 5.2714 years , 57Co with a half-life of 271.79 days , 56Co with a half-life of 77.27 days , and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days .
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than 18  घंटों और the बहुमत  of these have half-lives that are less than 1 second .
This element also has 11 meta states , all of  which  have half-lives less than 15 minutes .
The  isotopes of  cobalt range in atomic weight from 47Co to 75Co .
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit  मान कम than  that of the most abundant stable isotope , 59Co , is electron capture and the primary mode of decay for those of greater than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay .
The primary decay products before 59Co  हैं आयरन isotopes और the प्राथमिक  products after are nickel isotopes .
Standard atomic mass :  58.933195  ( 5 ) u
Who   Moved My Cheese ?
An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your  Life , published in 1998 ,  is a motivational book by Spencer Johnson written in the style of a parable or business fable .
It describes change in one 's work and  जीवन ,  and four typical reactions to said change by two mice and two `` littlepeople '' , during their hunt for cheese .
A New  यॉर्क  Times business bestseller since release , Who Moved My Cheese ?
remained on the list for almost five years  and spent  over 200 weeks on Publishers Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list .
It has sold more than 26 million copies worldwide in 37 languages and remains to be one of the best-selling  कारोबार  books .
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( – September 11 , 1971 ) led the Soviet Union  दौरान भाग of  the Cold War .
He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964 ,  और as अध्यक्ष  of the Council of Ministers , or Premier , from 1958 to 1964 .
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization of the Soviet Union , for backing the progress of the early  सोवियत स्पेस कार्यक्रम ,  and for several relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy .
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from power in 1964 , replacing him  with  Leonid Brezhnev as First Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier .
Khrushchev was  born in the रूसी  village of Kalinovka in 1894 , close to the present-day border between Russia and Ukraine .
He was employed as a metalworker in his youth , and during the Russian Civil  War was a  political commissar .
With the help of Lazar Kaganovich , he worked his way up the Soviet   hierarchy .
He supported Joseph Stalin 's purges , and approved   thousands of arrests .
In 1939 , Stalin sent him to govern Ukraine , and he  जारी the  purges there .
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the Great Patriotic War ( Eastern Front of World War II ) , Khrushchev was again a commissar , serving as an intermediary between Stalin and  his  generals .
Khrushchev was  उपस्थित at the खूनी रक्षा of stalingrad  , a fact he took great pride in throughout his life .
After the war , he returned to Ukraine before being  recalled to मास्को as  one of Stalin 's close advisers .
In the power struggle triggered by Stalin 's death in 1953 , Khrushchev , after   several years , emerged victorious .
On February 25 , 1956 , at the 20th Party Congress , he delivered the `` Secret Speech , '' denouncing Stalin 's  purges और ushering  in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union .
His domestic policies , aimed at bettering the lives of ordinary citizens , were often ineffective ,  विशेषकर in the क्षेत्रफल  of agriculture .
Hoping eventually to rely on missiles for national defense ,  khrushchev  ordered major cuts in conventional forces .
Despite the cuts , Khrushchev 's rule saw the tensest years of the Cold War , culminating in the  क्यूबन मिसाइल  Crisis .
Some of Khrushchev 's policies were seen as erratic , particularly by his emerging rivals , who quietly rose   in strength and deposed him in October 1964 .
He did not suffer the deadly fate of some previous losers of Soviet power struggles , but was pensioned off with an apartment in Moscow and  a dacha in the  countryside .
His lengthy memoirs were  smuggled to  the West and published in part in 1970 .
Khrushchev   died in 1971 of heart disease .
Upper gastrointestinal ( GI )  bleeding refers  to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract .
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the ligament of Treitz , which connects the fourth portion of the duodenum  to the diaphragm near  the splenic flexure of the colon .
Upper GI bleeds are considered medical emergencies , and require admission to hospital for urgent diagnosis and management   .
Due to advances in medications and endoscopy , upper GI hemorrhage  is अभी प्रायः treated  without surgery .
संसार जनसांख्यिकी  estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections ( red , orange , green ) and US Census Bureau historical estimates ( black ) .
Actual recorded population  आंकड़े हैं  in blue .
according to the उच्चतम  estimate , the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is the total number of living  इंसानो  on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated to number  billion by  the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB estimates that the world population exceeded  7  billion on March 12 , 2012 .
according to a पृथक अनुमान by the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी निधि , it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव on अक्तूबर 31 , 2011  .
The world population has experienced continuous growth  चूंकि the समाप्त of the ग्रेट  Famine and the Black Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above  1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद  seen briefly during the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 %  in 1963  , and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late  1980s  at about 138 million , and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million , while deaths number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ) , with the   global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates  भविष्यवाणी further  growth , stagnation , or even overall decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth , citing the growing pressures on the environment , global food supplies , and  उर्जा  resources .
Philips  lumileds  Lighting Company is the manufacturer of a wide range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ) .
It is a now a fully owned division  of फिलिप्स  Lighting .
Knuckle mnemonic for the number of days in each month of the Gregorian  पंचांग  .
Each  projecting  knuckle represents a 31-day month .
A mnemonic ( , with a silent `` m '' ) , or  mnemonic यंत्र , is कोई  learning technique that aids information retention .
Mnemonics aim to translate   information into a form that the human brain can retain better than its original form .
Even the process of applying this conversion might already   aid the transfer of information to long-term memory .
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and  in auditory  form , such as short poems , acronyms , or memorable phrases , but mnemonics can also be for other types of information and in visual or kinesthetic forms .
Their use is based on the observation that the human mind more easily remembers spatial , personal , surprising , physical , sexual , humorous , or otherwise 'relatable ' information , rather than more abstract or impersonal   forms of information .
The word mnemonic is derived from the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ) , meaning `` of memory '' and is related to  mnemosyne ( `` स्मरण ''  ) , the name of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology .
Both of these words are derived from μνήμη ( mnēmē ) , ``  स्मरण  , memory '' .
Mnemonics in  प्राचीनता यहूद सबसे  often considered in the context of what is today known as the Art of memory .
Ancient Greeks and Romans distinguished between two  प्रकार of मेमोरी : the  'natural ' memory and the 'artificial ' memory .
The  पूर्व is inborn  , and is the one that everyone uses automatically and without thinking .
The artificial memory in contrast has to be trained and developed through the learning and  practicing  of a variety of mnemonic techniques .
Mnemonic  प्रणालियों हैं खास तकनीकों or रणनीति consciously प्रयुक्त to improve मेमोरी , it helps employ सूचना already भंडारित in long-term मेमोरी to मेक memorization an easier कार्य .
President Bush  हस्ताक्षर the no चाइल्ड  Left Behind Act at Hamilton H.S . in Hamilton , Ohio .
The No Child Left  पीछे अधिनियम  of 2001 ( NCLB ) is a United States Act of Congress that is a reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act , which included Title I , the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students .
NCLB  supports standards-based  education reform based on the premise that setting high standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education .
The Act  requires  states to develop assessments in basic skills .
States must give these assessments to all  विद्यार्थी at चुनें  grade levels in order to receive federal school funding .
The  अधिनियम करता नहीं  assert a national achievement standard ; standards are set by each individual state .
NCLB expanded the federal role in public education through annual testing , annual  academic progress ,  report cards , teacher qualifications , and funding changes .
the विधेयक passed in the u.S. कॉंग्रेस साथ bipartisan support .
Dodge B Series utility  circa 1950  , driven by Albert Namatjira
A pickup   truck or pick-up , often simply referred to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built , integrated bed , as well as for coupé utility vehicles , often based on a personal car  chassis , लकिन भी प्रायः on a खास समर्पित chassi  for such use .
कुछ देशों have उनके अपना शर्तें समान to पिकअप , ऐसे as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड , or bakkie in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी  .
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in Europe , where vans   and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles .
This 15th-century depiction of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred medieval horse with arched neck , refined   head and elegant gait .
Horses in the Middle Ages differed in  आकार , निर्माण और  breed from the modern horse , and were , on average , smaller .
They were also more  सेंट्रल  to society than their modern counterparts , being essential for war , agriculture , and transport .
Consequently , specific types of horse developed , many of which have no  आधुनिक  equivalent .
जबकि an समझना of आधुनिक घोड़ा breeds और equestrianism is vital लिये कोई विश्लेषण of the मध्यकालीन घोड़ा , शोधकर्ताओं भी need to consider वृत्तचित्र ( दोनो लिखा और सचित्र ) और पुरातत्व प्रमाण  .
Horses in the Middle Ages were rarely differentiated  by  breed , but rather by use .
This led them to be described , for  उदाहरण ,  as `` chargers `` ( war horses ) , `` palfreys `` ( riding horses ) , cart horses or packhorses .
Reference is also given to their place of origin , such as `` Spanish horses , '' but  whether इस  referred to one breed or several is unknown .
Another difficulty arising during any study of medieval documents or literature is the flexibility of the medieval languages , where several words can be used for one thing ( or , conversely  , अनेक  objects are referred to by one word ) .
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even within one document ) , and where one epic may speak  disparagingly of a rouncey , another  praises its skill and swiftness .
Significant technological advances in equestrian equipment , often introduced from other cultures , allowed for significant   changes in both warfare and agriculture .
In particular , improved designs for the solid-treed saddle as well as the arrival of the stirrup , horseshoe  and horse collar were  significant advances in medieval society .
Consequently , the assumptions and theories developed by historians are not definitive , and debate still rages on many issues , such as the breeding or size of the horse , and a number of sources must be  consulted in अनुक्रम to समझे the विशालता  of the subject .
The Music Man is a musical with book , music , and lyrics by Meredith Willson , based  on a स्टोरी by willson और  Franklin Lacey .
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill , who poses as a boys ' band organizer and leader and sells band instruments and uniforms  to naive  townsfolk before skipping town with the cash .
In River City , Iowa , prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through him , but when Hill helps her younger brother overcome his fear of social interactions due to  his lisp , Marian  begins to fall in love with Harold .
Harold , in turn falling  लिये marian , risks  being caught to win her .
In 1957 , the show became a hit on Broadway , winning five Tony Awards , including Best  musical , और  running for 1,375 performances .
The cast album won the first Grammy Award for `` Best Original Cast Album '' and was number one  on the बिलबोर्ड  charts for 245 weeks .
The show 's success led to revivals and a popular 1962  film  adaptation and a 2003 television remake .
It frequently is produced by both professional and amateur theater  कंपनियाँ  .
निरीक्षक  's wheel
A surveyor 's wheel , also called a clickwheel , hodometer , waywiser ,  trundle व्हील , measuring  wheel , or perambulator is a device for measuring distance .
largest  non-polar deserts
Sand dunes in the Rub ' al Khali ( `` Empty  क्वार्टर '' )  of Saudi Arabia .
Makhtesh Ramon ,  negev मरुस्थल  , Israel
A desert is a landscape or region of land that is very dry because of low rainfall amounts ( precipitation ) ,  प्रायः  has little coverage by plants , and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside areas .
Deserts can also be  वर्णित as  areas where more water is lost by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation .
Desert plants must have special adaptations to  जीवित साथ इस  little water .
Deserts generally receive less than 25 cm of rain (  वर्षण  ) each year .
semideserts or steppes हैं regions जिससे प्राप्त between और .
In the Köppen climate  वर्गीकरण  system , deserts are classed as BWh ( hot desert ) or BWk ( temperate desert ) .
In the Thornthwaite climate classification system ,  रेगिस्तान  would be classified as arid megathermal climates .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11  नवम्बर  1918 .
It was predominantly called  the World  War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which  यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the  Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and  the  United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
ultimately , अधिक  than 70 million military personnel , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of technological advancements that led to  विशाल increases in the lethality of हथियार बगैर  corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It  थी the fifth- deadliest विरोध in संसार इतिहास , subsequently paving the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन , ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र शामिल .
एक of the  long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria ,  the heir to the  throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the previous  दशकों  were invoked .
Within  weeks  , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On  28 जुलाई , the austro-hungarians fired the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण of सर्बिया .
While the Russians  mobilised  , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with  a गर्त  line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by  the germans  .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia  और  the Sinai .
Italy and  बुल्गारिया गई  to war in 1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia  , the  tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American  शक्तियां began प्रवेश  the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an  armistice  on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in  विजय  for the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were  as tumultuous  as on the battle fronts , as the participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major  इम्पीरियल powers—the  German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost  a great amount  of territory , while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe was redrawn into  अनेक  smaller states .
The League of Nations was formed in the hope of  preventing  another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war  और the ब्रेकअप  of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of Versailles are agreed to be factors contributing to World War II .
``  Girls Just Want to Have Fun '' is a 1979 song originally written by Robert Hazard and made famous by singer Cyndi Lauper .
It was the first major single released by Lauper as a solo  कलाकार  and the lead-off single from her debut album She 's So Unusual .
Lauper’s version  gained मान्यता  as a feminist anthem and promoted by an award-winning video .
It has been covered on either an album or in live concert by over 30 other  कलाकारों  .
The single was Lauper 's breakthrough hit , reaching # 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 and becoming a worldwide  hit  throughout late 1983 and early 1984 .
It remains  एक of lauper 's हस्ताक्षर गीतों और थी a widely लोकप्रिय सोंग दौरान the era of इसके रिलीज , the 1980s .
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '' , `` Rolling Stone : `` The 100 Top Music Videos '' '' and the `` VH1 : 100 Greatest Videos '' lists  क्रमित  the song at # 22 , # 39 and # 45 , respectively .
The  सोंग प्राप्त  a Grammy Award nomination for Record of the Year and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
View of  defibrillator  electrode position and placement .
defibrillation is  a common treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation  consists of delivering a therapeutic खुराक of विद्युत  energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator .
This depolarizes a critical mass  of  the heart muscle , terminates the dysrhythmia , and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial node of the heart .
Defibrillators can be external , transvenous , or implanted , depending on the type of  यंत्र  used or needed .
Some external units , known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ) , automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms , meaning  that  lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
The Cato Institute is an American libertarian think tank   headquartered in Washington , D.C .
It was founded as the Charles Koch Foundation in 1974 by Murray Rothbard  , Ed  Crane and Charles Koch , chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries , Inc. .
In July 1976 , the name was changed to the Cato  संस्थान  .
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think Tank Index , Cato is the 6th most influential US based think tank , ranking 3rd in  आर्थिक नीति  and 2nd in Social Policy .
The Institute 's stated  मिशन  is `` to increase the understanding of public policies based on the principles of limited government , free markets , individual liberty , and peace .
The Institute   will use the most effective means to originate , advocate , promote , and disseminate applicable policy proposals that create free , open , and civil societies in the United States and throughout the world . ''
Cato scholars were critical of George W. Bush 's Republican administration ( 2001–2009 ) on several issues ,  सहित the इराकी युद्ध  , civil liberties , education , agriculture , energy policy , and excessive government spending .
On other issues , they supported Bush  प्रशासन पहलों  , most notably health care , Social Security , global warming , tax policy , and immigration .
During the 2008 U.S. presidential   election , Cato scholars criticized both major-party candidates , John McCain and Barack Obama .
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his inauguration , such as fiscal stimulus  , healthcare reform , foreign policy ,  and the War on Drugs , while supporting his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy .
Dracula is  an  1897 Gothic horror novel by Irish author Bram Stoker .
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count Dracula , the novel tells the story of Dracula 's attempt to relocate from Transylvania to England , and the battle between Dracula and a small group of men and  महिलाओं led by प्राध्यापक अब्राहम  Van Helsing .
Dracula has been assigned to many  साहित्यिक जाति सहित पिशाच साहित्य  , horror fiction , the gothic novel and invasion literature .
The novel touches on themes such as the role of women in Victorian culture ,   sexual conventions , immigration , colonialism , and post-colonialism .
Although Stoker did not invent the vampire  , he defined  its modern form , and the novel has spawned numerous theatrical , film and television interpretations .
Quidditch is a competitive sport in the wizarding world of the Harry Potter universe , and is from  the श्रेणी  of children 's novels and movies .
It is an extremely rough but very popular semi-contact sport , played  by  wizards and witches .
Matches are played between two teams of seven players riding flying broomsticks , using four balls and six elevated ring-shaped goals , three on each side of the   Quidditch pitch ( field ) .
In the Harry Potter universe , Quidditch  holds a fervent  following similar to the position that association football holds as a globally popular sport .
The sport is monumental  throughout the  wizarding world .
Harry plays an important position for his house team at Hogwarts : he is the seeker and becomes  the कप्तान in  his sixth year there .
Regional and international competitions are mentioned throughout the  श्रेणी  .
In Goblet of Fire , Quidditch at Hogwarts is cancelled for the Tri-Wizard Tournament  , but Harry and the  Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup .
In addition , Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the Hungarian Horntail ( in the first task of the Tri-Wizard Tournament ) , to capture a flying key in Philosopher 's Stone , and on two key occasions in Deathly Hallows — getting hold  of Ravenclaw 's Diadem , and during the final fight with  Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air .
Harry Potter has owned two broomsticks , the Nimbus 2000 and the Firebolt , both of which are destroyed  by the  series ' end .
The game has been adopted in  the  real world in the form of Muggle Quidditch .
The United States  कॉंग्रेस is the bicameral विधानमंडल of  the federal government of the United States consisting of two houses : the lower house known as the House of Representatives and the upper house known as the Senate .
Congress   meets in the Capitol in Washington , D.C .
Both representatives and senators are chosen through  सीधा  election .
Congress has a total of 535 voting members : 435  सदस्यों in the  House of Representatives and 100 members in the Senate .
सदस्यों of the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि serve two-year शर्तें representing the लोगों of a ज़िला .
Congressional districts are apportioned to states by population using the United States Census results , each state in  the  union having at least one representative in the House of Representatives .
Regardless of population  ,  each of the 50 states has two senators ; the 100 senators each serve a six-year term .
The terms   are staggered so every two years approximately one-third of the Senate is up for election .
Each staggered group of  one-third  of the senators are called 'classes ' .
No state  of  the United States has two senators from the same class .
Most incumbents seek re-election , and their historical likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90  प्रतिशत  .
In August 2012 , a Gallup poll reported that Congress’s approval rating amongst Americans  थी at  10 % , matching a 38-year low reached in November 2011 .
`` A Little More Country Than That '' is the title of a song written by Joey + Rory  's  Rory Lee Feek , Wynn Varble , and Don Poythress , and recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin .
It  was  released in August 2009 as Corbin 's debut single and is included on his self-titled debut album .
In April 2010 , the song reached Number One on the country music charts , making Corbin the first male solo artist in seven years to send a debut  सिंगल  to Number One .
It has been  certified  Gold by the RIAA .
The BlackBerry is a line of wireless handheld devices and services designed and marketed by Research In  गति सीमित ( रिम ) ऑपरेटिंग  as BlackBerry .
The first BlackBerry device , an email pager , was released in 1999 ; the most recent BlackBerry devices  , the z10  and Q10 , were announced on January 30 , 2013 .
The user  interface  varies by model ; most feature a physical QWERTY keyboard , while newer generations have relied on a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard .
A BlackBerry can shoot video , take photos ,  play music , and  perform online functions such as web-browsing and emailing .
They can also send and receive push email and instant messages while maintaining a high level of security through on-device message encryption , and are designed to function as  निजी डिजिटल  assistants .
BlackBerry devices support a large variety of instant messaging features , with the most popular being the proprietary  ब्लैकबेरी मेसेंजर  service .
The BlackBerry PlayBook is  a टैब्लेट  computer offered by the company .
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in June quarter of 2010 and the 200 millionth smartphone was shipped in September   quarter of 2012 .
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011 , making its manufacturer the sixth most popular device maker (  25  % of mobile device sales are smartphones ) .
The consumer BlackBerry Internet Service is available in 91 countries   worldwide on over 500 mobile service operators using various mobile technologies .
As of September 2012 , there were eighty million subscribers  विश्वव्यापी to ब्लैकबेरी  .
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America had the highest penetrations of BlackBerry  स्मार्टफ़ोन  worldwide , with up to about 45 per cent in the region having a RIM device .
BlackBerry , iPhone , Android , and Windows Phone are considered the  चार प्रमुख  smartphone brands .
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United States , which alludes to its excessive use by its owners   and is a reference to the addictiveness of crack cocaine .
Use of the term CrackBerry became so widespread that in November 2006 Webster 's New World College Dictionary  नामित `` crackberry ''  the `` New Word of the Year . ''
An example of a demand  वक्र  shifting .
The shift from D1 To D2  अर्थात् an  increase in demand with consequences for the other variables
In economics , the demand curve is the graph depicting the relationship between the price of a certain commodity and  the amount of it  that consumers are willing and able to purchase at that given price .
It is a graphic  प्रतिनिधित्व  of a demand schedule .
The demand curve for all consumers together follows from the demand curve of every  व्यक्तिगत  consumer : the individual demands at each price are added together .
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets , and are often  संयुक्त साथ सप्लाई वक्र to अनुमान the संतुलन दाम ( the दाम at  which sellers together are willing to sell the same amount as buyers together are willing to buy , also known as market clearing price ) and the equilibrium quantity ( the amount of that good or service that will be produced and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market .
In a monopolistic market , the demand curve facing the monopolist is simply the  मार्केट माँग  curve .
historia
by  nikolaos  Gysis ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia , meaning `` inquiry , knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is  an  umbrella term that relates to past events as well as the discovery , collection , organization , and presentation of information about these events .
the  term includes cosmic , geologic , and organic history , but is often generically implied to mean human history .
Scholars who   write about history are called historians .
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a narrative to examine and analyse a sequence of past events , and  objectively determine  the patterns of cause and effect that determine them .
Historians sometimes debate the nature of history and its usefulness by discussing the study of the discipline as an end in  itself and as a  way of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present .
Stories common to a particular culture , but not supported by external sources ( such as the tales surrounding King Arthur ) are usually classified as cultural heritage or legends , because  they do not  support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of history .
कार्यक्रम occurring prior to लिखा रिकार्ड हैं माना प्रागितिहास .
Herodotus , a 5th century B.C . Greek historian is considered within the Western tradition to be the `` father of history '' , and , along with his contemporary  thucydides  , helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history .
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the culture-focused Herodotus and the military-focused Thucydides remains a point of  contention or दृष्टिकोण  in modern historical writing .
In the Eastern tradition , a state chronicle  the वसन्त  and Autumn Annals was known to be compiled from as early as 722 BCE although only 2nd century BCE texts survived .
Ancient influences have helped spawn variant interpretations of the nature of history which have evolved over the centuries and  continue to change  today .
The modern study of history is wide-ranging , and includes the study of specific regions and the study of certain topical or thematical elements of  ऐतिहासिक छानबीन  .
Often history is taught as part of primary and secondary education , and the academic study of history is a  प्रमुख अनुशासन  in University studies .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz  ( ) , was an  African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist .
To his admirers , he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks , a man who indicted white America in the harshest  शर्तें लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध ब्लैक अमेरिकी  .
Detractors accused him of preaching racism , black  सर्वोच्चता , और  violence .
He  has  been called one of the greatest and most influential African Americans in history .
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white supremacists , it was rumored—when he was young , and at least one of his uncles was  lynched  .
When he was 13 , his mother was placed in a mental hospital , and he was placed in a series  of फोस्टर  homes .
In 1946 , at age 20 , he went to prison for   breaking and entering .
In prison , Malcolm X became a member of the  स्वदेश of islam ; बाद उसके पैरोल in 1952  , he quickly rose to become one of its leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group , but disillusionment  with  Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964 .
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East , he returned to the United States , where he founded Muslim Mosque , Inc. and the  संगठन of afro-american एकता  .
In February 1965 , less than a year after leaving   the Nation of Islam , he was assassinated by three members of the group .
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed  substantially over समय  .
As a spokesman for  the स्वदेश of islam he सिखाया ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता  and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it , `` I did many things as  a [  Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now .
I was a zombie then ...  pointed in a निश्चित दिशा और बताई to कूच '' —and बनने a सुन्नी मुस्लिम , he disavowed जातिवाद और expressed willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ , he जारी to emphasize pan-africanism , ब्लैक self-determination , और self-defense .
Henry Merritt `` Hank '' Paulson , Jr. ( born March 28 , 1946 ) is an American banker who served as the 74th United States  सचिव of the राजकोष  .
He had served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Goldman Sachs  , and is now  chairman of the Paulson Institute , which he founded in 2011 to promote sustainable economic growth and a cleaner environment around the world , with an initial focus on the United States and China .
A virtual machine ( VM ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware ,  जिससे  is presented to the application layer of the system .
Virtual  मशीने  may be based on specifications of a hypothetical computer or emulate the computer architecture and functions of a real world computer .
Spiders ( order Araneae )  are  air-breathing arthropods that have eight legs and chelicerae with fangs that inject venom .
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among  सब अन्य  groups of organisms .
Spiders are found worldwide on every continent except for Antarctica , and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and  समुद्र colonization  .
As of 2008 , at least 43,678 spider species , and 109 families have been recorded  by taxonomists ; however , वहीँ  has been confusion within the scientific community as to how all these families should be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata , the cephalothorax   and abdomen , and joined by a small , cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike  कीट  , spiders do not have antennae .
In all except the most primitive group , the Mesothelae , spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods , as all their ganglia are fused  into  one mass in the cephalothorax .
नापसंद सबसे arthropods  , spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend them by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within  उनके उदर  .
Spider webs vary  widely in आकार  , shape and the amount of sticky thread used .
It now appears that the spiral orb web may be one of the earliest forms , and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs  हैं अधिक abundant  and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing  spigots appeared in  the Devonian period about , but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets .
True spiders have been found in Carboniferous rocks from ,  और हैं बहुत समान to the सबसे आदिम  surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups of modern spiders , Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae , first appeared in the Triassic  काल , पहले  .
A herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi , was described in 2008 , but all other  known species are  predators , mostly preying on insects and on other spiders , although a few large species also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide range of strategies   to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs , lassoing it with sticky bolas , mimicking the prey to avoid detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing  कंपन , लकिन  the active hunters have acute vision , and hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones .
Spiders ' guts are too narrow to take solids , and they liquidize their food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps , as they do not have true   jaws .
Male spiders identify themselves by a variety of  complex  courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the females .
Males of most species survive a few  matings , सीमित  mainly by their short life spans .
Females weave silk egg-cases , each of  जिससे may contain  hundreds of eggs .
Females of many species care for  उनके यंग , लिये  example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them .
A minority of  प्रजाति हैं  social , building communal webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals .
Social  बर्ताव सीमाएँ इससे  precarious toleration , as in the widow spiders , to co-operative hunting and food-sharing .
Although most spiders live for at most two years , tarantulas and other mygalomorph  spiders  can live up to 25 years in captivity .
While the venom  of a few प्रजाति is खतरनाक to इंसानो , वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी researching the उपयोग of मकड़ी venom in आयुर्विज्ञान और as non-polluting pesticides .
Spider silk provides a combination of   lightness , strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials , and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories .
As  a result of their wide  range of behaviors , spiders have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13 , 1960 ) is  a fictional character and one  of the two female leads in the Fox sitcom That '70s Show , appearing in all eight seasons .
Portrayed by Laura Prepon , Donna is  the प्रेम  interest to Eric Forman .
US county   household median income 2009 .
Median US household income ,  2001-2011
Household income  is  a measure commonly used by the United States government and private institutions .
Each household is measured by  the  income of every resident over the age of 15 .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance , disability payments , child support payments received , regular rental  रसीदें , as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार , निवेश  , or other kinds of income received routinely .
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' )  household आय था महरूम increasing  almost every year from 1945 to 1999 , it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010  to  $ 50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United States , meaning households   living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits , doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011 , including 2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the  household लिये उनके आय to  be considered part of the household 's income .
As households tend to share a similar economic context , the use of household income remains among the most  widely  accepted measures of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or  among  the household income categories , and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible .
A registered agent , also known as a resident agent or statutory agent , in United States  business law , is a  business or individual designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons .
The registered agent 's address may also   be where the state will send the paperwork for the yearly renewal of the business entity 's charter .
The registered agent for a business entity may be an individual member of the company , or ( more often ) a third party , such as  the  organization 's lawyer or a service company .
Failure to properly  maintain  a registered agent can affect a company negatively .
Office for Emergency  प्रबन्धन  .
Office of War Information war  पोस्टर  1941 - 1945
`` Life , Liberty ,  और  the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase in the United States Declaration of Independence .
The  phrase  is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with which all human beings are endowed by their creator for their protection of which they institute governments .
Fencing , is typically  विभाजित into ओलम्पिक  fencing , Classical fencing and historical fencing , .
The sport of fencing ( commonly called olympic fencing or competitive fencing ) is divided  into three weapon  categories : foil , sabre and épée .
शास्त्रीय तलवारबाजी उपयोग the वही तीन हथियार , लकिन approaches तलवारबाजी as a martial आर्ट .
Competitive Fencing is one of five sports  जिससे  has been featured at every one of the modern Olympic Games , the other four being Athletics , Cycling , Swimming , and Gymnastics .
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur  `` ) , भी पुकारा बस the quadriceps , quadriceps extensor ,  quads , is a large muscle group that includes the four prevailing muscles on the front of the thigh .
It is the great extensor muscle of the knee , forming a large fleshy mass  जिससे  covers the front and sides of the femur .
The proper Latin plural form of the adjective quadriceps   would be quadricipites .
In modern English  usage  , quadriceps is used in both singular and plural .
The singular form  quadricep  , produced by hypercorrection , is frequently used .
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the North Atlantic  Ocean on 15 April 1912  after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton , UK to New York City , US .
The sinking of Titanic caused  the मौतों of 1,502 लोगों  in one of the deadliest peacetime maritime disasters in modern history .
The RMS  टाइटैनिक  was the largest ship afloat at the time of her maiden voyage .
She was the second of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the White Star Line , and she was built by the Harland and  wolff डॉकयार्ड in belfast  with Thomas Andrews , who perished with the ship , as her naval architect .
On her maiden voyage , she carried  2,224  passengers and crew .
Under the command of Edward Smith , her passengers included some of the wealthiest people in the  संसार , as खूब as सैंकड़ों of emigrants इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  and Ireland , Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe seeking a new life in North America .
The ship was designed  to be the पिछला शब्द in सुकून  and luxury , with an on-board gymnasium , swimming pool , libraries , high-class restaurants and opulent cabins .
She also  had a  powerful wireless telegraph provided for the convenience of passengers as well as for operational use .
हालांकि वो था उन्नत सुरक्षा सुविधाएँ ऐसे as watertight compartments और remotely activated watertight द्वार , वो lacked पर्याप्त lifeboats to accommodate सब of those सवार  .
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations , she carried only enough  lifeboats लिये 1,178 people—slightly  more than half of the number travelling on the maiden voyage , and one-third her total passenger and crew capacity .
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912 , Titanic called at Cherbourg in France  और  Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in Ireland before heading westwards towards New York .
On 14 April 1912 , four days into the crossing and about 375 miles ( 600 km ) south of Newfoundland , she hit an iceberg at 11:40 pm ship  's समय  .
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull plates to buckle inwards along her starboard side and opened  पाँच of उसके सोलह watertight  compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water .
Meanwhile ,  यात्री  and some crew members were evacuated in lifeboats , many of which were launched only partly loaded .
A disproportionate number of men were left aboard because of a `` women  और children  first `` protocol followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats .
By 2:20 AM , she broke apart  और  foundered , with well over one thousand people still aboard .
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered , the Cunard liner RMS Carpathia arrived on the scene of the sinking , where she brought aboard an estimated 705   survivors .
The disaster was greeted with worldwide shock and outrage at the huge loss of life  और the  regulatory and operational failures that had led to it .
Public inquiries in Britain and the United States led to major improvements in maritime   safety .
One of their most important legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea ( SOLAS ) , which still governs  मेरीटाइम सुरक्षा  today .
Additionally ,  अनेक नई बेतार  regulations were passed around the world in an effort to learn from the many missteps in wireless communications -- -which could have saved many more passengers .
Many  of the survivors lost  all of their money and possessions and were left destitute ; many families , particularly those of crew members from Southampton , lost their primary bread-winners .
They were helped by an outpouring of public sympathy and charitable donations   .
Some of the  पुरूष survivors  were accused of cowardice for leaving the ship while people were still on board ; the White Star Line 's chairman , J. Bruce Ismay , faced social ostracism for the rest of his life .
The wreck of the Titanic remains on the seabed , split  in  two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of .
Since its discovery in 1985 , thousands of artefacts have been  बरामद  and put on display at museums around the world .
Titanic has become one of the most famous ships in history , her memory kept alive by numerous books , folk songs ,  films , दर्शाती , और  memorials .
The human leg is the entire lower extremity or limb of the human body , including the foot , thigh and even the hip or gluteal region  ;  however , the precise definition in human anatomy refers only to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle .
Legs are used for standing , walking , jumping , running , kicking , and similar activities , and constitute a  significant  portion of a person 's mass .
This article is  about the  demographic features of the population of Turkey , including population density , ethnicity , education level , health of the populace , economic status , religious affiliations and other aspects of the population .
As of 2010 , the population of Turkey is estimated to be 73.7 million with a  विकास रेट  of 1.21 % per annum ( 2009 figure ) .
The population is  अपेक्षाकृत यंग  with 26.6 % falling in the 0-14 age bracket .
According to the OECD/World Bank population statistics in Turkey the population  विकास इससे 1990 to 2008 थी  16 million or 29 % .
1998 BMW  750il
Buick  roadmaster
A  full-size car is a विपणन पद प्रयुक्त in उत्तर अमेरिका लिये an ऑटोमोबाइल larger than a mid-size car .
In the  संयुक्त राज्य ,  the EPA uses the term `` large car '' to denote full-size cars .
Joel Grey ( born April 11 , 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor ,  सिंगर  , and dancer , known for his role as the Master of Ceremonies in both the stage and film adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret .
He has won the Academy Award , Tony Award and  सुनहरी  Globe Award .
He also originated the role of  जार्ज M. cohan  in the musical George M !
in 1973 , the Wizard in  the  musical Wicked .
Grey also starred in the Broadway revivals of Anything Goes as Moonface Martin , and Chicago as  अमोस हार्ट .
James Madison , Jr. ( March 16 , 1751 ( O.S . March 5 ) – June 28 , 1836 ) was an American statesman and political theorist , the fourth President of the  संयुक्त राज्य ( 1809–1817  ) .
He is hailed as the “Father of the Constitution” for being instrumental in the drafting of the United States Constitution and as the key  champion  and author of the United States Bill of Rights .
He served as a politician much of his adult  जीवन  .
After the constitution had been drafted , Madison became one of the leaders in the movement to ratify  it  .
His collaboration with   Alexander Hamilton and John Jay produced the Federalist Papers ( 1788 ) .
Circulated only in New York at the time , they  would later  be considered among the most important polemics in support of the Constitution .
He was also a   delegate to the Virginia constitutional ratifying convention , and was instrumental to the successful ratification effort in Virginia .
Like most of his  contemporaries ,  Madison changed his political views during his life .
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution , he favored a strong national government , though later he grew to favor stronger state governments , before settling between the two extremes  late in his  life .
In 1789 , Madison became a leader in the new House   of Representatives , drafting many basic laws .
He is notable for drafting the first ten amendments to the  संविधान , और यूँ  is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights `` .
Madison worked closely with President George Washington to organize the  नई  federal government .
Breaking with  Hamilton and what became the  Federalist Party in 1791 , Madison and Thomas Jefferson organized what they called the Republican Party ( later called by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ) , Madison  पर्यवेक्षित the louisiana  Purchase , which doubled the nation’s size .
After his  चुनाव  to the presidency , he presided over renewed prosperity for several years .
As president ( 1809–17 ) , after the failure   of diplomatic protests and a trade embargo against Great Britain , he led the nation into the War of 1812 .
He was  responding to अंग्रेजों encroachments on अमरीकी सम्मान और अधिकारों ; in जोड , he चाही to समाप्त the influence of the अंग्रेजों among उनके भारतीय allies , जिनकी प्रतिरोध अवरोधित संयुक्त राज्य उपनिवेश in the मिडवेस्ट around the ग्रेट झीलों .
Madison  found the  war to be an administrative nightmare , as the United States had neither a strong army nor financial system ; as a result , he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong military , as well as the national bank , which he had long opposed .
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave society , he was a slaveholder who inherited his plantation known as Montpelier , and owned hundreds of slaves  during his  lifetime to cultivate tobacco and other crops .
Madison supported the three-fifths compromise that allowed  three-fifths of  the enumerated population of slaves to be counted for representation .
`` Roman 's Revenge  '' is a सोंग  performed by American rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio album Pink Friday .
It was written by Minaj and rapper Eminem , who is also featured in  the  song , and was produced by Swizz Beatz .
It was released exclusively on October 30 , 2010 through the US iTunes Store , as a promotional release preceding the album  's  release .
The song  initiated a feud between लील  ' Kim and Minaj , where many people felt the song was directed at Lil ' Kim and regarded around her feelings towards Minaj 's rise to fame .
The song references Minaj 's alter-ego , Roman  zolanski  , and Eminem 's alter-ego , Slim Shady .
The song garnered very positive reviews from critics , most of which   praised the song as a stand-out track on the album .
An official remix featuring Minaj 's mentor , Lil Wayne , was released  to  the US iTunes Store on January 19 , 2011 .
The  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल  was used in the song 'Firing Squad ' by Horseshoe G.A.N.G .
हाइड्रोलिक  fluid being poured .
Hydraulic fluids , also called hydraulic liquids , are the medium by which power is  transferred  in hydraulic machinery .
Common hydraulic fluids are based on  खनिज आयल or  water .
Examples of  उपकरण कि  might use hydraulic fluids include excavators and backhoes , hydraulic brakes , power steering systems , transmissions , garbage trucks , aircraft flight control systems , lifts , and industrial machinery .
Hydraulic systems like the ones mentioned above will work most efficiently if the hydraulic fluid used   has no compressibility
Mahindra  ट्रैक्टर
Mahindra Tractors , the farm  उपकरण प्रभाग of महिंद्रा  & Mahindra , builds and sources tractors that are sold worldwide across six continents .
महिंद्रा is भी among the शीर्ष तीन ट्रैक्टर निर्माताओं in the संसार  .
Mahindra has a huge consumer base in India , China and America  और a growing  base in Australia .
The company builds more tractors in India than any other manufacturer , and has the capacity to build   150,000 tractors a year .
In 1963 , M & M formed a joint venture with International Harvester to manufacture tractors carrying the Mahindra   nameplate for the Indian market .
Armed with engineering  , tooling और निर्माण  know-how gained from this relationship , M & M developed its first tractor , the B-275 .
Mahindra Tractors   with sales of nearly 85,000 units annually is one of the largest tractor companies in the world , and is number one in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the world .
To expand into the growing tractor market in China , Mahindra  acquired  majority stake in Jiangling .
To raise awareness about Mahindra in the US , Mahindra USA  घोषित इसके नई प्रायोजन in the nascar  Nationwide Series with R3 Motorsports , which is participating with a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet .
The car will be  चलित by रॉबर्ट  Richardson , Jr. Mahindra USA , Inc. announced a 17-race primary and 18-race associate sponsorship for the 2009 NASCAR Nationwide Series .
With this sponsorship , Mahindra was the first Indian company to  प्रायोजक  a car in NASCAR .
In 2008 , Mahindra was a sponsor of the McDonald Motorsports team which ran the # 81 car in the NASCAR   Nationwide Series .
The POWER6 is a microprocessor developed by IBM that  implemented the शक्ति isa  v.2.03 .
When it became available  in प्रणालियों in 2007  , it succeeded the POWER5+ as IBM 's flagship Power microprocessor .
It is part of the eCLipz project , said to have a goal of converging IBM 's server hardware where   practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries , pSeries , and zSeries ) .
The American middle class is a social  क्लास  in the United States .
While the concept is typically  ambiguous in  popular opinion and common language use , contemporary social scientists have put forward several , more or less congruent , theories on the American middle class .
depending on क्लास मॉडल प्रयुक्त , the मध्य क्लास may constitute anywhere इससे 25 % to 66 % of households  .
One of the first major studies of the  मध्य क्लास in अमेरिका  was White Collar : The American Middle Classes , published in 1951 by sociologist C. Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills .
Later sociologists such as Dennis Gilbert of Hamilton College commonly  divide the मध्य  class into two sub-groups .
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the upper or professional middle class consisting of highly educated , salaried   professionals and managers .
constituting  roughly one third of households is the lower middle class consisting mostly of semi-professionals , skilled craftsmen and lower-level management .
Middle-class persons commonly have a  आरामदायक  standard of living , significant economic security , considerable work autonomy and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves .
Members of the middle class belong to diverse groups which overlap with  प्रत्येक अन्य  .
overall , middle-class व्यक्तियों , विशेषकर upper-middle-class individuals , हैं characterized by conceptualizing , बनाना और परामर्श .
Thus , college education is  एक of  the main indicators of middle-class status .
Largely attributed to the nature of middle-class occupations , middle class values  tend to emphasize  independence , adherence to intrinsic standards , valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity .
Politically  अधिक क्रियाशील  than other demographics , college educated middle class professionals are split between the two major parties .
Income varies considerably from near the national median  to खूब in excess  of $ 100,000 .
household आय आंकड़े  , however , do not always reflect class status and standard of living , as they are largely influenced by the number of income earners and fail to recognize household size .
It is therefore possible for a large , dual-earner , lower middle class  household to out-earn  a small , one-earner , upper middle class household .
The middle classes are very influential , as they  encompass the बहुमत of  voters , writers , teachers , journalists , and editors .
Most societal trends in the US  originate भीतर the  middle classes .
The following is a  सूची of शनिवार  Night Live cast members , past and present .
The cast members of Saturday Night Live were originally referred to as the `` Not Ready For  प्रधान समय खिलाड़ी  '' .
The original cast ( l to r ) : Laraine Newman , John  Belushi ,  Jane Curtin , Gilda Radner , Dan Aykroyd , Garrett Morris , and Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San Francisco  भूकंप  , remembered as one of the worst natural disasters in United States history
A disaster  is a प्राकृतिक or man-made ( or technological ) जोखिम resulting in an इवेंट of substantial extent causing significant शारीरिक क्षति or विनाश , घाटा of जीवन , or drastic बदलें to the पर्यावरण .
A disaster can be ostensively defined as any tragic event stemming from events such as earthquakes , floods ,   catastrophic accidents , fires , or explosions .
It is a phenomenon that can cause damage to life and  प्रॉपर्टी  and destroy the economic , social and cultural life of people .
In contemporary academia , disasters are seen as the consequence of inappropriately managed  risk  .
These risks are the product of a combination of both   hazard/s and vulnerability .
Hazards that strike in areas with low vulnerability will never become disasters , as  is the  case in uninhabited regions .
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by disasters occur in developing countries , and losses due to natural disasters are 20 times greater ( as a  प्रतिशत of जीडीपी ) in विकासशील देशों than  in industrialized countries .
In computing , booting ( also known as booting up ) is the  आरंभिक नियत  of operations that a computer system performs when electrical power to the CPU is switched on .
The process  begins जब a कंप्यूटर  is turned on for the first time or is re-energized after being turned off , and ends when the computer is ready to perform its normal operations .
on आधुनिक सामान्य purpose कंप्यूटर , इस can लो tens of सेकेंड और typically involves performing a power-on self-test , locating और initializing परिधीय डिवाइस , और तब ढूंढना , लदान और starting  an operating system .
Many computer systems also allow these operations to be initiated by a  तन्त्र  command without cycling power , in what is known as a soft reboot , though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot .
A boot loader is a computer program that  loads the प्रमुख  operating system or runtime environment for the computer after completion of the self-tests .
The computer term  boot is  short for bootstrap or bootstrap load and derives from the phrase to pull oneself up by one 's bootstraps .
The usage calls attention to the requirement that , if most software is loaded onto a computer by other software already running on the  कंप्यूटर , कुछ यांत्रिकी जरूर मौजूद to  load initial software onto the computer .
जल्दी कंप्यूटर प्रयुक्त a किस्में of ad-hoc विधि to मिलेंगी a छोटी कार्यक्रम into मेमोरी to solve इस प्रॉब्लम .
The invention of integrated circuit read-only memory ( ROM ) of various types solved this paradox by allowing  कंप्यूटर to be  shipped with a start up program that could not be erased .
Growth in the capacity of  ROM has allowed  ever more elaborate start up procedures to be implemented .
On general purpose computers , the boot process begins with the execution of an initial program stored in boot ROMs or  read in  another fashion .
In some older computers , the initial program might have been the application to run , if no  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली  was used , or the operating system .
In other computers , the initial program is a boot loader that may then load into random-access memory (  राम  ) , from nonvolatile secondary storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or , in some older computers , from a medium such as punched cards , punched tape , or magnetic tape in older computers , the binary code of an operating system or runtime environment and then execute it .
If the boot loader is limited in its size and capabilities , it may  , बजाय , लोड a larger और  more capable secondary boot loader , which would then load the operating system or runtime environment .
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot  sequence to  begin functioning and when turned on may simply run operational programs that are stored in ROM .
Firebird is an open source SQL relational database management  प्रणाली  that runs on Linux , Windows , and a variety of Unix .
The database forked from Borland 's open   source edition of InterBase in 2000 , but since Firebird 1.5 the code has been largely rewritten .
Outsourcing is the contracting out of  an internal  business process to a third-party organization .
The practice of contracting a business process out to a third party rather than staffing it internally is  आम in the  modern economy .
The term `` outsourcing '' became popular in the United States  निकट  the turn of the 21st century .
आउटसोर्सिंग sometimes involves transferring कर्मचारी और एसेट इससे एक कड़ to another , लकिन नहीं सदा .
The definition of outsourcing includes both  विदेशी और घरेलू  contracting , and sometimes includes offshoring , which means relocating a business function to another country .
Financial savings from lower international labor rates is a   big motivation for outsourcing/offshoring .
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing , which entails bringing processes handled by third-party firms in-house , and is sometimes accomplished via vertical   integration .
however , a कारोबार can provide a अनुबंध सेवा to another कारोबार बगैर necessarily insourcing कि कारोबार प्रक्रम  .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating  retrovirus ) कि  causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) , a condition in humans in which progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive .
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood  , वीर्य , vaginal  fluid , pre-ejaculate , or breast milk .
Within these bodily fluids , HIV is  उपस्थित  as both free virus particles and virus within infected immune cells .
HIV infects vital cells in the human immune system such as  helper  T cells ( specifically CD4 + T cells ) , macrophages , and dendritic cells .
HIV infection leads to low levels of CD4+ T cells through a number of mechanisms including : apoptosis of uninfected bystander cells , direct viral killing of infected cells , and killing of infected CD4+ T cells  by cd8 cytotoxic lymphocytes  that recognize infected cells .
जब cd4+ t कोशिका संख्याएँ मनाही नीचे a नाजुक स्तर , cell-mediated प्रतिरक्षण is खोया , और the देह becomes progressively अधिक susceptible to opportunistic infections .
The  firepole  in a fire station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube or pipe installed between floors in fire stations , allowing firefighters responding to an alarm to quickly descend to the ground  floor faster  than by using a standard staircase .
The device was invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon , in Chicago , Illinois , although it is  प्रायः  incorrectly credited to the Boston Fire Department .
Mary Poppins is the title character of a  श्रेणी of children  's books written by P. L. Travers .
Throughout the Mary Poppins series , which lasted from 1934 to 1988 , Mary Shepard   was the illustrator and acted as a second author .
The books centre on a magical English  नैनी ,  Mary Poppins .
She is blown by the East wind to Number Seventeen Cherry Tree Lane , London , and into the Banks ' household to care for  their  children .
Encounters with  चिमनी sweeps , दुकानदारों  and various adventures follow until Mary Poppins abruptly leaves , i.e. , `` pops-out '' .
The  adventures लो प्लेस over a कुल of आठ किताबे .
However ,  only  the first three books feature Mary Poppins arriving and leaving .
The later five  किताबे  recount previously unrecorded adventures from her original three visits .
As P. L. Travers explains in her  परिचय to मरियम  Poppins in the Park , `` She can not forever arrive and depart . ''
The  किताबे यहूद  adapted in 1964 into a musical Disney film starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke .
In 2004 , Disney Theatrical produced  a stage  musical adaptation in the West End theatre .
The stage musical was transferred to Broadway in 2006 where it ran until its closing  on कूच  3 , 2013 .
It has been highly successful , as was  the 1964 फिल्मी  .
The Last Song is a 2010 American coming of  age teen  romantic drama film developed alongside Nicholas Sparks ' novel by the same name .
The film was directed by Julie Anne Robinson in her feature film directorial debut and  co-written  by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie .
the पिछला सोंग सितारों miley सायरस , लियाम hemsworth , और ग्रेग kinnear और फ़ॉलो a troubled किशोरावस्था as वो reconnects साथ उसके estranged पिता और जलप्रपात in प्रेम दौरान a गर्मियाँ in a शांत दक्षिणी  United States beach town .
The film is distributed   by Touchstone Pictures .
Sparks was approached to write both the film 's  पटकथा और the अनोखा  .
Sparks completed the  पटकथा in जनवरी 2009  , prior to the completion of the novel , making The Last Song his first script to be optioned for film .
The setting  ,  originally in North Carolina like the novel , moved to Georgia after the states had campaigned for months to host production .
Upon beginning production in Tybee Island , Georgia and nearby Savannah , The Last Song became the first movie to  be दोनो शॉट और नियत  in Tybee Island .
Filming lasted from June 15 to August 18 , 2009 with much of   it occurring on the island 's beach and pier .
The Last Song was originally scheduled for wide release on January 8  , 2010  , but was postponed to March 31 , 2010 .
लिखा  Simlish
Simlish is a fictional language  प्रदर्शित  in EA Games ' Sim series of games .
It debuted in SimCopter , and has been especially  prominent  in The Sims , The Sims 2 and The Sims 3 .
The Sims  विकास  team created the unique Simlish language by experimenting with fractured Ukrainian , French , Latin , Finnish , English , Fijian , Cebuano , and Tagalog .
Simlish can also be heard in SimCity 4 , SimCity   Societies and SimCity 2013 , but far less frequently .
Civilized Creatures in Spore can also be  सिखाया to बोलो  Simlish .
It is also featured to an extent in  firaxis  Games ' Sid Meier 's SimGolf .
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need for dialogue in the game , but thought  that using a  real language would make it sound too repetitive and would also be too costly to hire translators for world languages .
Initially , inspired by the Native American code talkers of World War II , Sims  निर्माता होगा राइट और भाषा  expert Marc Gimbel suggested experimenting with the Navajo language to create Simlish .
However , they ultimately decided that Simlish worked best as a `` language '' made up of gibberish words that could   n't be translated , so that its meaning would be left open to the imagination of the player .
Wright later commented that using `` nonsense language '' turned out  to  be the right development choice , as people were capable of imagining it more realistically than a computer could simulate a real one .
The  वास्तविक ध्वनि  of Simlish was created improvisationally by voice actors Stephen Kearin and Gerri Lawlor .
An example of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on blade roots of a V2500 IAE   aircraft engine .
Step 1 : The UT probe is placed on the root of the blades to be inspected with the  सहायता of  a special borescope tool ( video probe ) .
कदम 2 : यंत्र जमावट हैं इनपुट .
Step 3 : The probe is  scanned  over the blade root .
In this case , an indication ( peak in the data ) through the red line ( or gate ) indicates a good  blade ; an indication  to the left of that range indicates a crack .
principle  of ultrasonic testing .
LEFT : A probe sends a sound wave into  a  test material .
There are two indications , one from the initial pulse of the probe , and the   second due to the back wall echo .
RIGHT : A defect  creates a तीसरा indication  and simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication .
The depth of  the defect  is determined by the ratio D/E
In ultrasonic testing ( UT ) , very short ultrasonic pulse-waves with center frequencies ranging from  0.1-15 MHz and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into  materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize materials .
A common example is ultrasonic thickness  मापन , जिससे परीक्षण  the thickness of the test object , for example , to monitor pipework corrosion .
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on steel and other metals and alloys , though  it  can also be used on concrete , wood and composites , albeit with less resolution .
It is a form of non-destructive testing used in many industries including aerospace  , automotive  and other transportation sectors .
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ) , also called ductus deferens ( Latin : `` carrying-away vessel '' ; plural : ductus deferentes ) , is part of  the male anatomy of many  vertebrates ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation .
Vascular ischemia of the toes with  characteristic cyanosis  .
In medicine , ischemia , also spelled as ischaemia or ischæmia , ( ; from Greek language ισχαιμία , ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a restriction or thinning or to make or grow thin/lean , haema blood ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues , causing a  shortage of ऑक्सीजन और ग्लूकोज needed लिये  cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ) .
Ischemia is generally caused by  समस्याएं साथ  blood vessels , with resultant damage to or dysfunction of tissue .
It also means local anemia in a given  भाग of a देह sometimes  resulting from congestion ( such as vasoconstriction , thrombosis or embolism ) .
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome , also known as trisomy 21 , is a  जेनेटिक विकार caused  by the presence of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21 .
Down syndrome is the most common  chromosome  abnormality in humans .
It is typically associated with a delay in cognitive ability ( mental retardation , or MR ) and physical  विकास , और a  particular set of facial characteristics .
The average IQ of young adults with Down syndrome is around 50 , whereas young adults without the  कंडीशन typically have an iq of 100  .
( MR has historically been  पारिभाषित  as an IQ below 70 . )
A large proportion of individuals with Down syndrome have a severe degree of intellectual  विकलांगता  .
Down syndrome is named after John  langdon  Down , the British physician who described the syndrome in 1866 .
the कंडीशन थी clinically वर्णित पहले by जां etienne dominique esquirol in 1838 और edouard seguin in 1844  .
Down syndrome was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy  by  Dr. Jérôme Lejeune in 1959 .
Down syndrome can be identified in a baby at birth or before birth  by prenatal स्क्रीनिंग  .
pregnancies साथ इस निदान हैं प्रायः terminated  .
The CDC estimates that   about one of every 691 babies born in the United States each year is born with Down syndrome .
Many children with Down syndrome are educated in regular school classes while others require specialised   educational facilities .
Some children graduate from high school , and , in the US , there are increasing opportunities for participating in  post-secondary  education .
Education and proper care has been shown to improve quality  of जीवन  significantly .
Many adults with Down Syndrome are able to work at paid employment in the community , while others require a more sheltered work  पर्यावरण  .
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes  , or night  sweats if they happen at night ) are a symptom which may have several other causes , but which is often caused by the changing hormone levels that are characteristic of menopause .
The Servicemen 's  Readjustment Act of  1944 ( P.L . 78-346 , 58 Stat . 284m ) , known informally as the G.I . Bill , was a law that provided a range of benefits for returning World War II veterans ( commonly referred to as G.I.s ) .
Benefits included low-cost mortgages , low-interest loans to start a business or farm , cash payments of tuition and living   expenses to attend college , high school or vocational education , as well as one year of unemployment compensation .
It was available to every veteran who  had been on  active duty during the war years for at least ninety days and had not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required .
By the end of the program in 1956 , roughly 2.2 million veterans had used the G.I . Bill education benefits in order to attend colleges or universities , and an additional 6.6  लाख  used these benefits for some kind of training program .
Since the original 1944 law , the term has come to include other veteran benefit programs  निर्मित to assist दिग्गजों of  subsequent wars as well as peacetime service .
Historians and economists consider the G.I . Bill a major  political  success—especially in contrast to the treatments of World War I veterans—and a major contribution to America 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth .
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred in the United States in the 1970s as a result of the June 17 , 1972 break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters at the Watergate office  जटिल  in Washington , D.C. , and the Nixon administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement .
The scandal eventually led to the resignation of Richard Nixon , the President of the United  राज्य , on अगस्त 9 , 1974 —  the only resignation of a U.S. President .
The scandal also resulted in the indictment , trial , conviction , and incarceration of forty-three  व्यक्तियों  , dozens of whom were Nixon 's top administration officials .
The affair began with the arrest of five men for breaking and entering into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) headquarters at the Watergate complex on June 17 ,  1972  .
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on the burglars to a slush fund used by the Committee  for the  Re-Election of the President , the official organization of Nixon 's campaign .
In July 1973 , as evidence mounted against the president 's staff , including testimony provided by former staff members in an investigation conducted by the Senate Watergate Committee , it was revealed that President Nixon had a tape-recording system in his  कार्यालयों और he था अंकित  many conversations .
रिकार्डिंग इससे ये टेपों implicated the अध्यक्ष , revealing he था attempted to कवर up the questionable ( और illegal ) goings-on कि था लिया प्लेस दौरान उसके प्रशासन , दोनो पहले और बाद the break-in .
After a protracted series of bitter court battles , the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the president had to hand over  the टेपों to सरकारी जांचकर्ताओं  ; he ultimately complied .
facing near-certain महाभियोग in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और a दमदार सम्भावना of a conviction in the सीनेट , निक्सन resigned the प्रेसिडेंसी on अगस्त 9 , 1974 .
His successor  ,  Gerald Ford , then issued a pardon to him .
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly Lansing  और स्पेंसर  ) is a fictional character on the ABC Daytime soap opera General Hospital .
Elizabeth is the granddaughter of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John Beradino  ) , एक of the originating  core characters of the series .
Rebecca Herbst originated the character on August 1 , 1997 and has been the only contract actress to  खेल  the role .
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings , Lucky Spencer and Elizabeth Webber and Jason Morgan and  एलिज़ाबेथ  Webber .
The United States presidency of Ronald Reagan , also known as the Reagan administration , was a  रिपब्लिकन  administration headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20 , 1981 , to January 20 , 1989 .
Domestically , the administration favored reducing government programs and  introduced the largest across-the-board  tax cuts in American history .
The  आर्थिक नीतियों enacted  in 1981 , known as `` Reaganomics `` , were an example of supply-side economics .
Reagan aimed to  प्रोत्साहित उद्यमिता और  limit the growth of social spending , as well as the reduction of regulation and inflation .
Economic growth saw a  दमदार रिकवरी  in the 1980s , helping Reagan to win a landslide re-election .
The national  कर्ज़  increased significantly , however .
Regarding foreign policy , the administration was steadfastly anti-communist , calling the Soviet Union an `` evil empire `` and  समाप्ति 1970s  détente .
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military  प्रारंभ  by his predecessor , including an invasion of Grenada , the first major overseas action by U.S. troops since the end of the Vietnam War .
The `` Reagan Doctrine `` controversially granted aid to paramilitary  forces seeking to overthrow  communist governments , particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan .
Reagan also promoted new technologies such as missile defense systems in order to confront the Soviets and their   allies .
In diplomacy , Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime  Minister  Margaret Thatcher , and he met with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev four times , aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution '' , or the Age of Reagan in  मान्यता of the राजनैतिक  realignment both within and beyond the U.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in free markets .
The Reagan administration  worked toward the पतन  of Soviet Communism , and it did collapse just as he left office .
Victory in the Cold War led to a  unipolar संसार  with the U.S. as the world 's sole superpower .
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides during his second term , Reagan himself left office with a 63  प्रतिशत स्वीकृति  rating , one of the higher approval ratings of departing presidents .
After years of unstinting praise from the right , and unrelenting criticism from the left , historian David Henry finds that by 2009 a consensus had emerged among scholars that Reagan revived conservatism and turned  the स्वदेश to the सही by demonstrating a `` pragmatic कोसा '' कि प्रचारित  ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system .
Furthermore , says Henry , the consensus viewpoint  agrees कि  he revived faith in the presidency and American self-confidence , and contributed critically to ending the Cold War .
Crude death rate by country ( 2006  )  .
Mortality rate is a measure of the number of deaths ( in general , or due to a  विशिष्ट  cause ) in a population .
scaled  to the size of that population , per unit of time .
Mortality rate is typically expressed in units of deaths per 1000 individuals per year ; thus , a mortality  rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a  population of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population , or 0.95 % out of the total .
It is distinct from morbidity rate , which refers to the number of individuals in poor health during a given time period  ( the prevalence rate )  or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate ) .
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the number of deaths  among  a set of diagnosed hospital cases for a disease or injury , rather than for the general population of a country or ethnic group .
This disease mortality statistic is   more precisely referred to as `` case fatality rate `` ( CFR ) .
One  distinguishes:
The crude death rate , the total number of  मौतों  per year per 1000 people .
the crude death rate for the whole world is about 8.37 per 1000 per year  according  to the current CIA World Factbook .
The perinatal  मृत्यु  rate , the sum of neonatal deaths and fetal deaths ( stillbirths ) per 1000 births .
the मातृ मृत्यु अनुपात , the क्रमांक of मातृ मौतों प्रति 100,000 सजीव births in वही समय काल  .
The maternal mortality rate , the number of maternal deaths per 1,000 women of reproductive age in the population ( generally defined as 15–44 years  of  age ) .
The  शिशु  mortality rate , the number of deaths of children less than 1 year old per 1000 live births .
The child mortality rate , the number of deaths of  children  less than 5 years old per 1000 live births .
the standardised मृत्यु अनुपात  ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional comparison to the numbers of deaths that would have been expected if the population had been of a standard composition in terms of age , gender , etc .
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR ) - This  refers to the  total number of deaths per year per 1000 people of a given age ( e.g . age 62 last birthday ) .
In regard  to  the or failure of medical treatment or procedures , one would also distinguish:
the जल्दी मृत्यु रेट , the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों in the जल्दी चरण of an जारी उपचार , or in the काल तत्काल following an उपचार  .
The late mortality rate , the total number of deaths in the late stages of an  जारी  treatment , or a significant length of time after an acute treatment .
Note that the crude death  rate  as defined above and applied to a whole population can give a misleading impression .
The crude death rate depends on the age ( and gender ) specific mortality rates and the age  ( and  gender ) distribution of the population .
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for developed nations than in less-developed countries , despite life expectancy being higher  in विकसित देशों  due to standards of health being better .
This happens because developed countries typically have a completely different population age distribution , with a much higher proportion of older people , due to both lower recent birth  दरों और निम्नतर मृत्यु  rates .
A more complete picture of mortality is given by a life table which shows the mortality  rate  separately for each age .
A life table is necessary to   give a good estimate of life expectancy .
An otoacoustic emission ( OAE ) is a sound which is generated  इससे भीतर  the inner ear .
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in  1948  , its existence was first demonstrated experimentally by David Kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have since been shown to arise by a number of different cellular mechanisms within the inner ear .
Studies have shown that   OAEs disappear after the inner ear has been damaged , so OAEs are often used in the laboratory and the clinic as a measure of inner ear health .
Broadly speaking , there are two types of otoacoustic emissions : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( SOAEs ) , which can occur without external stimulation , and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs  ) , which  require an evoking stimulus .
Hurricane Tomas was the nineteenth named storm   and twelfth hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season .
Tomas developed from a tropical wave east of the Windward Islands on  अक्तूबर 29  .
Quickly intensifying into a   hurricane , it moved through the Windward Islands and passed very near Saint Lucia .
After reaching Category 2 status on the Saffir-Simpson scale , Tomas quickly weakened to a tropical storm in  the सेंट्रल  Caribbean Sea , due to strong wind shear and dry air .
Tomas later regained hurricane status as it reorganized near the  Windward  passage .
Throughout the hurricane 's path , 71 people are known to have been killed , 14 of whom  यहूद  in Saint Lucia .
Monetary losses throughout the Windward Islands were  अनुमानित at us $ 588 लाख  , mainly in Saint Lucia .
in  the wake of the storm in Haiti , flooding intensified an ongoing cholera outbreak indirectly causing more fatalities .
According to a report released in December 2010 , 55 people were  मारे in क्यूबा  and Hispanola , though the distribution of these fatalities are unknown .
Overall damage from the storm was at least $ 741  लाख  .
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2 , 1959 ) is an American comedian , actress , satirist , singer and internet blogger best known as a cast member of the NBC  टेलीविज़न स्केच  comedy series Saturday Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992 .
She has received attention  as a गायन  critic of President Barack Obama , and is an active participant in the Tea Party movement .
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by heavy reliance on techniques like fragmentation , paradox , and questionable narrators , and is often ( though not exclusively ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the  post–world युद्ध ii era  .
Postmodern works are seen as a reaction against  आत्मज्ञान सोच  and Modernist approaches to literature .
Postmodern literature , like postmodernism as a whole , tends to resist definition   or classification as a `` movement '' .
Indeed , the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory , particularly reader-response and deconstructionist approaches , and the subversions of the implicit contract between author , text and reader by which its works are often characterised , have led to pre-modern fictions such as Cervantes ' Don Quixote ( 1605,1615 ) and Laurence  sterne  's eighteenth-century satire Tristram Shandy being retrospectively inducted into the fold .
While there is little consensus on the precise characteristics , scope , and importance of  postmodern साहित्य  , as is often the case with artistic movements , postmodern literature is commonly defined in relation to a precursor .
For example , a postmodern literary work tends not to conclude with the neatly tied-up ending as is often  found  in modernist literature , but often parodies it .
Postmodern  authors tend to celebrate  chance over craft , and further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority .
Another characteristic of postmodern literature is the questioning of  भेद  between high and low culture through the use of pastiche , the combination of subjects and genres not previously deemed fit for literature .
Enigma is an  electronic  musical project founded in Germany by Michael Cretu , David Fairstein and Frank Peterson in 1990 .
The Romanian-born Cretu conceived the Enigma project while working in Germany , but based his recording studio A.R.T . Studios in Ibiza , Spain ,  इससे the जल्दी 1990s जबतक may 2009  , where he has recorded all of Enigma 's studio releases to date .
Cretu is both the  composer और the  producer of the project .
His former  बीवी , पॉप सिंगर  Sandra , often provided vocals on Enigma tracks .
Jens Gad co-arranged and played guitar on three of  the पहेली एल्बम  .
पीटर कॉर्नेलियस  also contributed to Enigma during the 1990s .
Seven studio albums have been produced under the name   of the project .
Scooby-Doo is an American animated cartoon franchise , comprising several  एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न  series produced from 1969 to the present day .
The  असली  series , Scooby-Doo , Where Are You !
, was created for Hanna-Barbera  प्रोडक्शन्स by लेखक  Joe Ruby and Ken Spears in 1969 .
इस शनिवार morning कार्टून श्रेणी प्रदर्शित चार teenagers— फ्रेड जोन्स , daphne ब्लेक , velma dinkley , और norville `` shaggy '' रोजर्स — और उनके talking भूरा ग्रेट डेन श्वान नामित scooby-doo , जो solve रहस्यों involving माना अलौकिक जीव through  a series of antics and missteps .
Following the success of the original series , Hanna-Barbera and its successor Warner Bros . Animation have produced numerous   follow-up and spin-off animated series and several related works , including television specials and telefilms , a line of direct-to-video films , and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films .
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature different variations on the show 's supernatural theme , and include characters such as Scooby 's cousin Scooby-Dum and nephew  scrappy-doo in जोड to or बजाय of  some of the original characters .
Scooby-Doo was originally broadcast on CBS from 1969 to 1976 , when it  स्थानांतरित to  ABC .
ABC aired the show until canceling it in 1986 , and presented a spin-off featuring the characters as children , A   Pup Named Scooby-Doo , from 1988 until 1991 .
Two new Scooby-Doo series , What 's New ,  scooby-doo ?
and Shaggy and  scooby-doo मिलेंगी  a a Clue ! ] ] , aired as part of Kids WB on The WB network and its successor , The CW network , from 2002 until 2008 .
The most recent Scooby-Doo series ,  scooby-doo  !
रहस्य  Incorporated , aired on Cartoon Network from 2010 to 2013 .
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are broadcast frequently on Cartoon Network and Boomerang in the United States  and  other countries .
कॉल  of Duty is a first-person and third-person shooter computer/ video game franchise .
The series began on the PC , and later expanded to consoles and handhelds   .
Several spin-off games have also  महरूम released  .
The earlier games in the series are  नियत primarily in संसार  War II , this includes : Call of Duty , Call of Duty 2 , and Call of Duty 3 .
शुरूआत साथ आधुनिक warfare , जिससे is नियत in आधुनिक टाइम्स , the श्रेणी रै shifted फ़ोकस दूर इससे संसार युद्ध ii  .
Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare ( released November 2007 ) was followed by   Call of Duty : World at War and Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2 .
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War , while Modern Warfare 3 ( released November 2011 ) takes  प्लेस  in the near-future setting .
ब्लैक ops 2 ( released नवम्बर 13 , 2012 ) takes प्लेस in the साल 2025 .
The Call of Duty  खेल  are published and owned by Activision with Aspyr Media publishing it for Apple OS X .
While the studio Infinity Ward primarily still develops them , Treyarch has also developed several of the titles with the   release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other .
Some games have been developed by Gray Matter Interactive , Spark Unlimited , Amaze Entertainment , n-Space , Rebellion Developments , Ideaworks Game Studio ,  sledgehammer खेल  and nStigate Games .
The games use a variety of engines , including the id Tech 3 , the Treyarch NGL , and the IW  5.0  .
Other products in the franchise include a line of  कार्रवाई आंकड़े designed  by Plan-B Toys , a card game created by Upper Deck , and a comic book mini-series published by WildStorm .
as of नवम्बर 11 , 2011 , the कॉल of ड्यूटी श्रेणी have बेची over 100 लाख नक़ल .
As of March 31 , 2012 there are 40 million monthly active players across all of the Call of Duty titles , with 10 million Call of Duty : Elite users and 2 million  paying annual  members .
Over 1.6 billion hours of online gameplay have been logged Modern Warfare 3  चूंकि इसके 2011  release .
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person , whether such property is transferred via a will , according to the state laws of intestacy or otherwise made as an incident of the death of the owner , such as a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust , or  the भुगतान of निश्चित जीवन बीमे लाभ  or financial account sums to beneficiaries .
The estate tax is one part of the Unified Gift and Estate Tax system in the United States  .
The other part of the  system , the  gift tax , imposes a tax on transfers of property during a person 's life ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a person want to give away his/her estate .
In addition to the federal government , many states also impose an estate tax , with the state version  पुकारा  either an estate tax or an inheritance tax .
Opponents of the estate  कर  call it the `` death tax '' .
If an asset is left to a spouse or a  federally  recognized charity , the tax usually does not apply .
In  जोड , up to $ 5,250,000 can be दिए by an व्यक्तिगत , पहले and/or upon उनके मौत , बगैर रूष्ट संघीय तोहफा or एस्टेट कर .
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an English actor and musician , known as the lead singer  and  rhythm guitarist of the rock band Bush .
Following Bush 's separation  in 2002 , जिससे  lasted for eight years , he was the lead singer and guitarist for Institute , and later began a solo career .
When performing solo , Gavin plays  गीतों इससे उसके  extensive musical libraries .
Rossdale has been ranked in the Top 100 Heavy Metal  vocalists  by Hit Parader ( # 75 ) .
Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino ( April 6 or March 28 , 1483 – April  6 , 1520 ) , better  known simply as Raphael , was an Italian painter and architect of the High Renaissance .
His work is admired for its clarity of form and ease of  संयोजन  and for its visual achievement of the Neoplatonic ideal of human grandeur .
साथ साथ michelangelo और लियोनार्डो da विंची , he फ़ॉर्म the परंपरागत ट्रिनिटी of ग्रेट मास्टर्स of कि काल  .
Raphael   was enormously productive , running an unusually large workshop , and despite his death at 37 , a large body of his work remains .
Many of his works are found in the Vatican  राजमहल  , where the frescoed Raphael Rooms were the central , and the largest , work of his career .
The best known work is The  स्कूल  of Athens in the Vatican Stanza della Segnatura .
After his early  years in Rome much  of his work was self-designed , but for the most part executed by the workshop from his drawings , with considerable loss of quality .
He was extremely influential in his  आजीवन , हालांकि बाहर  Rome his work was mostly known from his collaborative printmaking .
After his death , the influence of his great rival Michelangelo was more widespread until the 18th and 19th centuries , when Raphael 's  अधिक निर्मल और समन्वयात्मक qualities यहूद  again regarded as the highest models .
His career falls naturally into three phases and three  शैलियाँ , पहला  described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria , then a period of about four years ( from 1504–1508 ) absorbing the artistic traditions of Florence , followed by his last hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome , working for two Popes and their close associates .
जूलिया फिओना रॉबर्ट्स ( born अक्तूबर 28 , 1967 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  .
She became a Hollywood star after headlining the  रोमांटिक कॉमेडी pretty  Woman ( 1990 ) , which grossed $ 464 million worldwide .
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations for Steel  magnolias  ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman , she won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her performance in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ) .
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ) , My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ) , Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ) , Notting Hill ( 1999 ) , Runaway Bride ( 1999 ) , Ocean 's Eleven ( 2001 ) , Ocean 's Twelve ( 2004 ) , Charlie Wilson 's War ( 2007 ) , Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ) , Eat Pray Love ( 2010 ) , and Mirror Mirror ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $ 2.6 billion , making her one  of the most successful actresses in  terms of box office receipts .
Roberts had become one of the highest-paid actresses in the world , topping The Hollywood Reporters annual `` power list ''  of  top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006 .
Her fee for 1990 's Pretty Woman was $ 300,000 ; in 2003 , she was paid an  unprecedented  $ 25 million for her role in Mona Lisa Smile ( 2003 ) .
As of 2010 , Roberts 's net worth was estimated to be $  140 लाख  .
Roberts has been named one of People magazine 's `` 50  सबसे खूबसूरत  People in the World '' eleven times , tied with Halle Berry .
In 2011 , she was named one of the `` 100 Hottest Women of All-Time   '' by Men 's Health .
In 2001 , Ladies  घर जर्नल  ranked her as the 11th most powerful woman in the United States .
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg ( born May 14 , 1984 ) is an American   computer programmer and Internet entrepreneur .
He is best known as one of five  co-founders of the सोशल  networking website Facebook .
As of April 2013 , Zuckerberg is the chairman and chief executive of Facebook , Inc. and  in 2013 उसके निजी  wealth was estimated to be US $ 13 .3 billion .
Together with his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo   Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes , Zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms .
The group then introduced Facebook onto other campuses   nationwide and moved to Palo Alto , California , United States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards .
In 2007  , at the आयु of twenty-three सालो , zuckerberg became a अरबपति as a परिणाम of फेसबुक और the क्रमांक of फेसबुक उपयोक्ता विश्वव्यापी पहुँचे a कुल of एक अरब in 2012 .
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal disputes that were  initiated by अन्य in the  group , who claimed a share of the company based upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook .
Since 2010 , Zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest and most influential   people in the world by Time magazine as a part of its Person of the Year accolade .
Zuckerberg  थी निभाई  by actor Jesse Eisenberg in the 2010 Hollywood film The Social Network in which the rise of Facebook is portrayed .
The Mayflower was the ship that in 1620 transported 102 English Pilgrims , including a core group of Separatists , to New  इंग्लैण्ड  .
Their story is one of travail and survival in a harsh  नई  World environment .
framedthe
Committee of Ways and Means is the chief tax -writing committee of the United States House of  प्रतिनिधि  .
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on any other House Committees unless they apply for a waiver from their party 's congressional  नेतृत्व  .
The Committee has jurisdiction over all taxation , tariffs  और  other revenue-raising measures , as well as a number of other programs including:
Social  सुरक्षा
बेरोजगारी  benefits
medicare
Enforcement of child  support  laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families , a federal  welfare  program
Foster care  और  adoption programs
The U.S. Constitution requires that all bills regarding taxation must originate in the House of  प्रतिनिधि  .
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation must go through this committee , the committee  is बहुत influential , as is इसके सीनेट बंटवारा  , the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance .
The Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by Charlie Rangel , who had taken a leave of absence as chairman until House ethics  उल्लंघनों यहूद resolved  .
However , his  छोड़ of अनुपस्थिति  as chairman was ruled to be a resignation .
Pete Stark resigned  as एक्टिंग  chairman , so Sander Levin held that position until the start of the 112th Congress .
Dave Camp became the committee chair for the 112th Congress , after the  republicans जीती कंट्रोल  of the House in the 2010 election .
The blue whale ( Balaenoptera musculus ) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( called  mysticeti  ) .
At in length and or more in weight , it is the largest  ज्ञात एनिमल  to have ever existed .
long और slender , the ब्लू व्हेल 's देह can be विभिन्न शेड्स of bluish-grey dorsally और somewhat  lighter underneath .
There are at least three distinct subspecies : B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North Pacific , B. m. intermedia of the Southern Ocean  and B.  m. brevicauda ( also known as the pygmy blue whale ) found in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean .
B. m. indica , found in  the भारतीय  Ocean , may be another subspecies .
As with other baleen whales , its diet consists almost   exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill .
ब्लू whales  were abundant in nearly all the oceans on Earth until the beginning of the twentieth century .
For over a century , they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers until protected by the   international community in 1966 .
A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 blue whales worldwide ,  स्तिथ in at  least five groups .
More  हाल  research into the Pygmy subspecies suggests this may be an underestimate .
Before whaling , the largest population was in the Antarctic ,  क्रमांकन लगभग  239,000 ( range 202,000 to 311,000 ) .
There remain only much smaller ( around 2,000 ) concentrations in each of the   eastern North Pacific , Antarctic , and Indian Ocean groups .
वहीँ हैं दो अधिक  groups in the North Atlantic , and at least two in the Southern Hemisphere .
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var . scolymus ) is a variety of a species of thistle cultivated as  a food  .
the खाद्य  matter is buds that form within the flower heads before the flowers come into bloom .
The buds go away or change to a coarse ,  मुश्किल खाद्य रूप  when the flower blooms .
The uncultivated or wild variety of the species  is पुकारा  a cardoon .
It is  a  perennial plant native to the Mediterranean region .
The United States one hundred-dollar bill ( $ 100 ) is a denomination of United  राज्य  currency .
U.S. statesman , inventor , and  राजनयिक  Benjamin Franklin is currently featured on the obverse of the bill .
On the reverse of the   banknote is an image of Independence Hall .
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has been  मुद्रित चूंकि जुलाई  13 , 1969 , when the denominations of $ 500 , $ 1,000 , $ 5,000 , and $ 10,000 were retired .
The Bureau of Engraving and   Printing says the average life of a $ 100 bill in circulation is 90 months ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to wear and tear .
The bills are also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '' , in reference to the use of Benjamin Franklin 's portrait on the denomination , or `` C-Notes   '' , based on the Roman numeral for 100 .
The bill is  एक of दो denominations  printed today that does not feature a President of the United States ; the other is the $ 10 bill , featuring Alexander Hamilton .
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse , according to the U.S. Bureau of Engraving and Printing , shows  लगभग  4:10 .
एक सौ hundred-dollar  bills are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ) .
The Series 2009 $ 100 bill redesign was unveiled on April 21 , 2010 , and was to be issued to the public  on February 11 , 2011 , but production was shut  down in December 2010 because as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw .
A vertical crease in the paper reveals a blank space on the bill  when  pulled out .
In their replacement , and continuing the high demand of this denomination , the Series 2006A was launched retaining the previous design (  1996-generation  ) .
On April 24 , 2013 , the Federal  Reserve  announced the new $ 100 bill would enter circulation on October 8 , 2013 .
King David in robes of a Byzantine  सम्राट  .
Miniature from the Paris Psalter  .
David ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : Daveed ) according to the Hebrew Bible , was the second king of the United Kingdom  of Israel  , and according to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke , an ancestor of Jesus .
His life is  conventionally  dated to c. 1040–970 BCE , his reign over Judah c. 1010–1002 BCE , and his reign over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE .
The Books of Samuel , 1 Kings , and 1 Chronicles are the only sources of information on David , although the Tel Dan stele ( dated c. 850–835 BCE )  contains the phrase ( bytdwd ) , पढ़ा as ``  House of David '' , which most scholars take as confirmation of the existence in the mid-9th century BCE of a Judean royal dynasty called the House of David .
He is depicted as a righteous king , although not without faults , as well as an acclaimed warrior , musician , and poet , traditionally  credited for  composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms .
David is central to  यहूदी ,  Christian , and Islamic doctrine and culture .
biblical परंपरा maintains कि a सीधा वंशज of दाउद होगा be the मसीहा .
In  Islam  he is considered to be a prophet and the king of a nation .
काठमांडू ( ; ) is the पूंजी और largest शहरी agglomerate of नेपाल  .
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu Metropolitan City at its core , and its sister cities Patan , Kirtipur  , Thimi ,  and Bhaktapur .
It also includes the  recently पहचाना शहरी क्षेत्रों  of Shankhapur , Karyabinayak , and Champapur .
banepa , dhulikhel , और panauti हैं उपग्रह शहरी क्षेत्रों of काठमांडू स्तिथ बस बाहर the काठमांडू घाटी .
Kathmandu is also known informally  as  `` KTM '' or the `` tri-city '' .
According to a census conducted in 2011  , Kathmandu  metropolis alone has 975,453 inhabitants ; and the agglomerate has a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants .
The metropolitan city area is and has a population  घनत्व  of 19,250 per km2 .
The city stands at an elevation of approximately in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu Valley of central   Nepal .
It is surrounded by four major  kyu : shivapuri  , Phulchoki , Nagarjun , and Chandragiri .
Kathmandu Valley is part of three districts ( Kathmandu , Lalitpur , and Bhaktapur  ) , रै the उच्चतम जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व in  the country , and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population .
During Rana and Shah eras  ,  the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the Kathmandu Valley ; it was what people who lived outside the valley called it .
दौरान इस काल , अंग्रेजों इतिहासकारों पुकारा the घाटी itself `` नेपाल उचित '' .
आज , काठमांडू is नहीं तभी the पूंजी of the संघीय लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र of नेपाल , लकिन भी the मुख्यालय of the सेंट्रल विकास  Region of Nepal .
The Central Region  comprises तीन zones  : Bagmati , Narayani , and Janakpur .
Kathmandu is located  in  the Bagmati Zone .
Kathmandu is the   gateway to tourism in Nepal .
It is  भी the तंत्रिका  center of the country 's economy .
It has the  सबसे उन्नत अवसंरचना of कोई शहरी क्षेत्रफल in नेपाल , और इसके अर्थव्यवस्था is केन्द्रित on पर्यटन , जिससे accounted लिये 3.8 % of नेपाल 's जीडीपी in 1995–96 .
( Tourism in Kathmandu declined thereafter during a period of political unrest , but since then has  improved  . )
The city has a rich  इतिहास  , spanning nearly 2000 years , as inferred from inscriptions found in the valley .
Religious and cultural festivities form a major part of the  जीवनदान of लोगों residing in काठमांडू  .
Most of Kathmandu 's people follow Hinduism and many others follow Buddhism   .
वहीँ हैं लोगों of  other religious beliefs as well , giving Kathmandu a cosmopolitan culture .
Nepali is the  सबसे  commonly spoken language in the city .
नेपाल bhasa is  the indigenous language spoken by the Newar people .
Hindi  is  widely understood and English is understood by Kathmandu 's educated residents .
the  city 's literacy rate is 98 % .
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural heritage , tourism  उद्योग , और अर्थव्यवस्था ; इसलिए युनेस्को 's  World Heritage Site lists all three cities ' monuments and attractions together under one heading , `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site `` .
Field hockey , usually referred to simply  as  hockey , is a team sport of the hockey family which is played between two teams of eleven players with hockey sticks and a hard , solid plastic ball .
At the turn of the 21st century , the game is played globally , with particular popularity throughout Europe , Asia , Oceania , and South America – in addition to being  the national sport of Pakistan  and India .
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada , the United States , and other  regions  of the world where the sport of ice hockey is more popular .
During play , goal keepers are the only players who are allowed to touch the ball with any part of their body ( with the exception of a player 's hand considered 'part of the stick ' ) , with this only applying within the shooting circle ( also known as the D , or shooting arc , or just the circle ) , while field players play the ball with the  चपटा पक्ष  of their stick .
The team that scores the most goals by the end of   the match wins .
If the  स्कोर is tied  at the end of the game , either a draw is declared or the game goes into extra time and/or a penalty shootout , depending on the competition 's format .
The governing body of hockey is the International Hockey Federation ( FIH ) , with men and women being represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic games , Commonwealth games , Hockey World Cup , Champions Trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup , with many countries running extensive junior , senior , and  मास्टर्स ' क्लबों प्रतियोगिताओं  .
The FIH is also responsible for organising the Hockey Rules Board and developing the rules  लिये the  sport .
A popular variant of field hockey  is  indoor hockey , which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey .
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side variant , with a field which  is  reduced to approximately 40m × 20m .
With many of the rules remaining the same , including obstruction and feet , there are several key variations - Players may not   raise the ball unless shooting on goal , players may not hit the ball ( instead utilising pushes to transfer the ball ) , and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off .
Ethan `` Cane '' Ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional  character  from the American CBS soap opera The Young and the Restless .
He is portrayed by Australian   actor Daniel Goddard , who originally auditioned for Brad Snyder on As the World Turns but was recommended for a role on The Young and the Restless instead .
The role was to be portrayed as an American , but Goddard 's Australian   descent influenced the character 's background .
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the episode airing on January 12 , 2007 as an Australian  बारटेंडर in ढूंढें of उसके परिवार , a  debut that received a mixed response .
Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip  चांसलर ii  ( Donnelly Rhodes ) and Jill Foster Abbott ( Jess Walton ) but the character 's background was rewritten by Maria Arena Bell in 2009 , reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ) .
Though characterized as `` mysterious '' , Cane is `` loyal and dedicated '' , while Goddard described  the character  as a `` typical Australian , working-class kind of guy '' .
He was the first member of the Atkinson family to appear on the series , followed by his parents and identical twin  bhai  .
Soon after his debut , he became a leading  अक्षर , a निर्णय  praised by viewers and critics .
The character has been involved with Amber Moore ( Adrienne Frantz ) , Chloe Mitchell ( Elizabeth Hendrickson ) and most  notably  Lily Winters ( Christel Khalil ) , a romance that garnered significant fan attention .
in 2009 , cane और लिली यहूद शादीशुदा ; वैश्विक bc होता बाद कॉल लिली the प्रेम of  Cane 's life .
The pair had   two children , Charlie and Mattie Ashby .
In 2011 ,  the कर्ता  was fired , and Cane was shot to death onscreen .
However , Goddard was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return , revealing that Cane 's identical twin brother   was in fact the man who died .
This sacrificed his marriage  to Lily , but  the couple were remarried on Valentine 's Day in 2012 .
Goddard has been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon News said that he portrays the character honestly , and is `` always dependable , on fire   and exciting '' .
John Christopher  ``  Johnny '' Depp II ( born June 9 , 1963 ) is an American actor , film producer , and musician .
He has won the Golden  ग्लोब  Award and Screen Actors Guild award for Best Actor .
Depp rose to prominence on the 1980s television  श्रेणी 21  Jump Street , becoming a teen idol .
Dissatisfied with that status , Depp turned to film for more challenging roles ; he played the title character of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office success in films such as Sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ) , Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ( 2005 ) , Alice in Wonderland ( 2010 ) , Rango ( 2011  ) और the pirates of the caribbean  film series ( 2003–present ) .
He has collaborated   with director and friend Tim Burton in eight films ; the most recent being Dark Shadows ( 2012 ) .
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of such people as Ed Wood in Ed Wood , Joseph D. Pistone in Donnie Brasco , Hunter S. Thompson in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas , George Jung in Blow , and the bank robber John  dillinger  in Michael Mann 's Public Enemies .
films featuring डेप have grossed over $ 3.1 अरब at the संयुक्त राज्य बक्सा दफ्तर और over $ 7.6 अरब विश्वव्यापी .
He has been nominated for top awards many times , winning the Best Actor Awards from the Golden –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy Globes  –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy  for Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and from the Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl .
He  भी रै garnered a sex  symbol status in American cinema , being twice named as the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009 .
he रै  been listed in the 2012 Guinness Book of World Records as the highest paid actor , with $ 75 million .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly known as the web ) , is a system of interlinked hypertext  दस्तावेज़ पहुँचा  via the Internet .
With a web browser , one can view web pages that  may contain text ,  images , videos , and other multimedia , and navigate between them via hyperlinks .
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE , British engineer , computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN , Sir Tim Berners-Lee , now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote a proposal in March  1989 for what would eventually  become the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user  can ब्राउज़ at होगा '' , और वे सरेआम introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in दिसम्बर of the वही  year .
Mark Travis John Sanchez ( born November 11 , 1986 ) is an American football quarterback for the New York  Jets of  the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was drafted in  the पहला गोलाकार  of the 2009 NFL Draft as the fifth overall selection by the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall .
He played college football  at the  University of Southern California ( USC ) .
Sanchez grew up in a  well-disciplined  and athletic family .
In the eighth grade , he began to play football  and  learn the intricacies of the quarterback position , training with his father , Nick .
a well-regarded prospect , सांचेज़ वचनबद्ध to दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया following उसके कामयाब ऊँची स्कूल करियर in जिससे he led उसके टोली to a चैंपियनशिप शीर्षक  during his final season .
At USC , Sanchez was relegated as the backup  क्वार्टरबैक दौरान उसके पहला तीन सालो  though he rose to prominence due to his brief appearances on the field in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty .
Sanchez also became  लोकप्रिय  within the community due to his Mexican-American heritage .
Named  the प्रारंभ in 2008 , सांचेज़  led USC to a 12–1 record and won the Rose Bowl against Penn State for which Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable Player award for his performance on offense .
Although many considered him too inexperienced , Sanchez announced his  इरादे to डालें  the 2009 NFL Draft .
He was selected by the Jets after they traded up with  the Cleveland Browns , and was  named the starting quarterback prior to the start of the season .
Despite a subpar performance , Sanchez led the Jets to the AFC Championship Game , a losing effort to the  इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस , बनने  the fourth rookie quarterback in NFL history to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games .
in उसके दूसरी ऋतु , सांचेज़ जारी to develop और led the jets to the playoffs और the टोली 's दूसरी लगातार afc चैंपियनशिप खेल जहाँ वे narrowly खोया to the पिट्सबर्ग  Steelers , 24–19 .
With the win over the New  England  Patriots the week prior , Sanchez tied four other quarterbacks for the second most post-season road victories by a quarterback in NFL history .
In leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships , Sanchez joined quarterback Ben Roethlisberger as the only  दो quarterbacks in एनएफएल इतिहास to पहुँचें the  conference championship in their first two seasons in the league .
The next  two  seasons would be a regression for both the team and Sanchez as they failed to reach the playoffs .
Fans and media  आलोचकों पुकारा  for a struggling Sanchez to be benched .
He eventually was replaced towards the end of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy   .
Paul Avery ( April 2 , 1934December 10 , 2000 ) was an American  police  reporter , best known for his stories on the infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac , and later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping .
A  छोटी submersible ac sump पंप साथ a गार्डन नली कनेक्टर
A sump pump is a pump used to  हटाएँ  water that has accumulated in a water collecting sump basin , commonly found in the basement of homes .
The water may enter via the perimeter drains of a basement waterproofing   system , funneling into the basin or because of rain or natural ground water , if the basement is below the water table level .
Sump pumps are used where basement  बाढ़  happens regularly and to remedy dampness where the water table is above the foundation of a home .
Sump pumps send water away from a house to any place where it is no longer problematic , such as a municipal storm  नाली or a शुष्क  well .
Pumps may discharge to the   sanitary sewer in older installations .
Once considered acceptable , this practice  may अभी violate the plumbing  code or municipal bylaws , because it can overwhelm the municipal sewage treatment system .
Municipalities urge homeowners to disconnect and reroute   sump pump discharge away from sanitary sewers .
Fines   may be imposed for noncompliance .
Many  homeowners have inherited उनके sump पंप configurations और do नहीं एहसास कि the पंप discharges to the सीवर .
If the discharge is fed to a laundry sink in the basement ,  it 's संभावित  going to the sewer .
Usually  hardwired into a घर  's electrical system , sump pumps may have a battery backup .
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some pumps ,  eliminating the need  for electricity at the expense of using potable water , potentially making them more expensive to operate than electrical pumps and creating an additional water disposal problem .
Since a sump  जलाशय may अतिप्रवाह  if not constantly pumped , a backup system is important for cases when the main power is out for prolonged periods of time , as during a severe storm .
There are generally two types of sump pumps — pedestal and  submersible  .
The  pedestal  pump 's motor is mounted above the sump , where it is more easily serviced , but is also more conspicuous .
The pump impeller is driven by a long , vertical  एक्सटेंशन शाफ्ट  and the impeller is in a scroll housing in the base of the pump .
The submersible pump is entirely mounted inside the sump , and  is  specially sealed to prevent electrical short circuits .
Sump pump systems are also utilized in industrial and commercial  अनुप्रयोग to  control water table -related problems in surface soil .
An artesian aquifer or periodic high water table situation can cause the ground to become unstable due  to जल संतृप्त  .
As  long as  the pump functions , the surface soil will remain stable .
ये  sumps are typically ten feet in depth or more ; lined with corrugated metal pipe that contains perforations or drain holes throughout .
They may include electronic control systems with visual and audible alarms and are usually covered to prevent debris and animals from falling  in  .
Bleeding Kansas , Bloody  कान्सास or the किनारा युद्ध , थी a श्रेणी of हिंसक राजनैतिक confrontations involving anti-slavery free-staters और pro-slavery `` किनारा ruffian `` तत्व , कि took प्लेस in the कान्सास territory और the neighboring कस्बों of मिसौरी between 1854 और 1861 .
At the heart of the  विरोध  was the question of whether Kansas would enter the Union as a free state or slave state .
As  ऐसे , bleeding कान्सास  was a proxy war between Northerners and Southerners over the issue of slavery in the United States .
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was coined by Horace Greeley of the New York Tribune ; the events it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil   War .
Congress had long struggled to balance the interests  of pro-slavery  forces and anti-slavery forces .
The events later known as Bleeding Kansas were set into motion by the Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854 , which nullified  the Missouri Compromise  and instead implemented the concept of popular sovereignty .
An ostensibly democratic idea , popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or  राज्य चाहिए decide  whether it would be a free or slave state ; however , this resulted in immigration en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides .
At one point , Kansas had two  पृथक  governments , each with its own constitution , although only one was federally recognized .
On January 29 , 1861 , Kansas was admitted to the Union as a free state , less than three months before the Battle of Fort Sumter which   began the Civil War .
Benzene is  an  organic chemical compound with the molecular formula C6 H|Hydrogen|H6 .
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring , with 1 hydrogen atom attached to  प्रत्येक कार्बन अणु  .
Because its  अणुओं  contain only carbon and hydrogen atoms , benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon .
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil , and is one of the   most basic petrochemicals .
Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the second [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ) , a cyclic hydrocarbon with a  निरन्तर  pi bond .
It is sometimes   abbreviated Ph –H . Benzene is a colorless and highly flammable liquid with a sweet smell .
It is mainly used as a  precursor to भारी  chemicals , such as ethylbenzene and cumene , which are produced on a billion kilogram scale .
Because it has a high octane number , it is an important component  of  gasoline , composing a few percent of its mass .
Most non-industrial applications have been limited by benzene  's  carcinogenicity .
Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was  an  Italian astronomer and science historian .
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's Wii game console to run software that has not  been  authorized by Nintendo .
It achieves this by defeating the Wii 's copy  सुरक्षा  and code signing measures .
In more general terms , Wii Homebrew refers to the use of the Wii 's hardware , accessories and software for  उद्देश्य  outside those intended by the manufacturer .
Original efforts focused on using the Wii Remote as a pointing device on other operating systems , or running web-based games in the built-in  web  browser .
Subsequent developments in games exploits , such as the `` Twilight hack `` , `` Bannerbomb '' and its later incarnation `` LetterBomb '' , `` Smash Stack '' , `` Indiana Pwns '' , `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '' , `` bathaxx '' , and `` Return of the Jodi '' , made installing  the ``  Homebrew Channel `` possible .
Hadley ( right ) discussing the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis with Bush  और राइस  .
Stephen John Hadley ( born February 13 , 1947 ) was the 21st U.S. Assistant to  the अध्यक्ष लिये नेशनल  Security Affairs ( commonly referred as National Security Advisor ) , serving under President George W. Bush .
Take identical growing plants and give  उर्वरक  to half of them .
If there are differences between the fertilized plant group and the unfertilized  ``  control '' group , these differences may be due to the fertilizer .
A scientific control is an  प्रयोग or  observation designed to minimize the effects of variables other than the single independent variable .
इस increases the  reliability of the results , often through a comparison between control measurements and the other measurements .
Scientific  नियंत्रण  are a part of the scientific method .
For  उदाहरण  , during drug testing , scientists will try to control two groups to keep them as identical as possible , then allow one group to try the drug .
Another example might  be परीक्षण संयंत्र उर्वरक  by giving it to only half the plants in a garden : the plants that receive no fertilizer are the control group , because they establish the baseline level of growth that the fertilizer-treated plants will be compared against .
Without a control group , the experiment can not determine  whether the  fertilizer-treated plants grow more than they would have if untreated .
Ideally , all variables in an experiment will be controlled ( accounted for by the control measurements ) and  none होगा  be uncontrolled .
In such an experiment , if all the controls work as expected , it is possible to conclude that the experiment is working as intended and that the  परिणाम  of the experiment are due to the effect of the variable being tested .
That is , scientific controls allow an investigator to make a claim like `` Two  परिस्थितियों यहूद एकसमान  until factor X occurred .
Since   factor X is the only difference between the two situations , the new outcome was caused by factor X . ''
< <  रासायनिक  elements data references
John Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S . October 19 , 1735 ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was the second president of the United States  ( 1797–1801 ) , having  earlier served as the first vice president of the United States .
An American Founding Father , he was a statesman , diplomat , and a leading  एडवोकेट of अमरीकी  independence from Great Britain .
Well educated , he was an Enlightenment  राजनैतिक theorist  who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas , both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
एडम्स आए  to prominence in the early stages of the American Revolution .
A lawyer and public figure in Boston  , as  a delegate from Massachusetts to the Continental Congress , he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence .
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting  the घोषणा  of Independence in 1776 , and was its primary advocate in the Congress .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe , he helped negotiate the   eventual peace treaty with Great Britain , and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist and historian , Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780 , which together with his earlier Thoughts on  सरकारी ,  influenced American political thought .
One  of उसके महानतम भूमिकाएँ थी as a न्यायधीश  of character : in 1775 , he nominated George Washington to be commander-in-chief , and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States .
Adams '  क्रांतिकारी  credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he encountered ferocious attacks by the Jeffersonian   Republicans , as well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts , and built up the army and navy especially in the face of an  undeclared नवल युद्ध  ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major accomplishment of his presidency was his peaceful  रेज़ोल्यूशन of the  conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In 1800 , Adams was defeated for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to  मैसाचुसेट्स  .
He later  resumed उसके दोस्ती  with Jefferson .
He and his wife , Abigail Adams , founded an accomplished family line of politicians  , diplomats , and  historians now referred to as the Adams political family .
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams , the  छठे  President of the United States .
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern times , though his  योगदान यहूद नहीं  initially as celebrated as those of other Founders .
Adams was the first U.S. president  to  reside in the building that eventually became known as the White House .
a वाट भाप इंजन .
The steam engine , fuelled  primarily  by coal , propelled the Industrial Revolution in Great Britain and the world .
The Industrial Revolution was the transition to new manufacturing  प्रक्रियाओं कि occurred in  the period from about 1760 to some time between 1820 and 1840 .
This transition included going  इससे  hand production methods to machines , new chemical manufacturing and iron production processes , improved efficiency of water power , the increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools .
The  परिवर्तन  also included the change from wood and other bio-fuels to coal .
The Industrial revolution  began  in Britain and within a few decades spread to Western Europe and the United States .
The  औद्योगिक क्रान्ति  marks a major turning point in history ; almost every aspect of daily life was influenced in some way .
Most notably , average income and  जनसांख्यिकी began to प्रदर्शनी  unprecedented sustained growth .
In the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas , Jr. , `` For the first time in history , the living standards of the masses of  ordinary people  have begun to undergo sustained growth ... Nothing remotely like this economic behavior is mentioned by the classical economists , even as a theoretical possibility . ''
विलियम घंटी स्कॉट आयरन और कोयले , 1855-60
The period of time covered by the Industrial Revolution varies with  अलग इतिहासकारों  .
Eric Hobsbawm held that it  'broke आउट  ' in Britain in the 1780s and was not fully felt until the 1830s or 1840s , while T. S. Ashton held that it occurred roughly between 1760 and 1830 .
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued  that the  process of economic and social change took place gradually and the term revolution is a misnomer .
This is still a  विषय  of debate among historians .
GDP per  capita  was broadly stable before the Industrial Revolution and the emergence of the modern capitalist economy .
The  औद्योगिक  Revolution began an era of per-capita economic growth in capitalist economies .
Economic historians are in agreement that the  onset  of the Industrial Revolution is the most important event in the history of humanity since the domestication of animals and plants .
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870 , when technological and economic progress gained momentum with the increasing adoption of steam-powered boats , ships and railways , the large scale manufacture of machine tools and the  increasing उपयोग of भाप संचालित  factories .
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born September 27  , 1969 ) , is an अमरीकी  television news reporter , currently appearing on Fox News Channel .
This list ranks U.S. cities by land area (  नहीं सहित लाशें  of water ) .
Total areas ( including  जल ) हैं भी दिए , लकिन नोट कि , जब क्रमित by कुल क्षेत्रफल , a क्रमांक of तटीय शहरों appear disproportionately `` larger '' .
San Francisco is an extreme example ; water makes up nearly 80 % of  इसके कुल  area of 232 square miles ( 601 km2 ) .
Note also that in many cases a city may be geographically large primarily because its municipal   government has merged with the government of the surrounding county .
In some cases the county no longer exists , while in others the arrangement has formed a Consolidated city–county  ( or city-  borough in Alaska , or city- parish in Louisiana ) .
These are shown in bold in the list below ( but not  सब उदाहरण may  be indicated ) .
** These are independent cities , meaning they are not a part of any  काउंटी  .
The large intestine ( or  bowel , कोलन  ) is the last part of the digestive system in vertebrate animals .
इसके फलन is to अवशोषित जल इससे the बाकी indigestible खाना पदार्थ , और तब to pass व्यर्थ बर्बाद सामग्री इससे the देह  .
This article is primarily about the human gut , though the information about its processes  हैं सीधे लागू  to most mammals .
The large intestine consists of the cecum , rectum and  anal  canal .
It starts in the right iliac region of the pelvis , just at or below the right waist , where it is joined  to  the bottom end of the small intestine .
From here it continues up the abdomen , then across  the width of the  abdominal cavity , and then it turns down , continuing to its endpoint at the anus .
The large intestine is about long , which is  परिचय one-fifth  of the whole length of the intestinal canal .
In Terminologia Anatomica the large intestine includes the cecum ,  कोलन , मलाशय , और  anal canal .
However ,  कुछ  sources exclude the anal canal .
the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स हैं an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल टोली आधारित in ग्रीन खाड़ी , विस्कॉन्सिन  .
They are members of the North Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football League  ( एनएफएल  ) .
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the NFL , having been organized and playing   in 1919 .
The Packers are the only non-profit , community-owned major league professional   sports team in the United States .
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once  आम in the एनएफएल  during the 1920s and 1930s .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun , the Green Bay Packers can trace their lineage to   other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896 .
In  1919 और 1920 the  Packers competed as a semi-professional football team against clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest .
वे joined the अमरीकी पेशेवर फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( apfa ) in 1921 , the forerunner to कया is ज्ञात आज as the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल )  .
Although  ग्रीन खाड़ी is the  last NFL `` small town '' team , its local fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The  ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स have जीती 13 लीग championships ( अधिक than कोई अन्य टोली in the एनएफएल ) , सहित नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories —in 1967 ( सुपर कटोरी i ) , 1968 ( सुपर कटोरी ii ) , 1997 ( सुपर कटोरी xxxi ) और 2011 ( सुपर कटोरी xlv ) .
The Packers have long-standing , bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents , the Chicago Bears , Minnesota  वाइकिंग्स और  the Detroit Lions .
The Bears-Packers rivalry is one  of the oldest  rivalries in NFL history , dating back to 1921 .
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is an urbanized valley  स्तिथ  in the Los Angeles metropolitan area of southern California , United States , defined by the mountains of the Transverse Ranges circling it .
Home to 1.76 million people , it lies north of the  larger and  more populous Los Angeles Basin .
Nearly two thirds of the  घाटी  's land area is part of the City of Los Angeles .
The other incorporated cities in the valley  हैं  Glendale , Burbank , San Fernando , Hidden Hills and Calabasas .
San  फर्नांडो  Valley , Los Angeles
The exterior of the current World of Coca-Cola at  pemberton  Place .
The World of Coca-Cola , is a permanent exhibition featuring  the इतिहास  of The Coca-Cola Company .
Its well-known advertising as well as a host of entertainment areas and attractions , and is located in Atlanta , Georgia ( where the company 's headquarters are  स्तिथ ) at pemberton  Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton , the inventor of Coca-Cola ) .
as भाग of जॉर्जिया 's संग्रहालय .
the complex located across Baker Street from Centennial Olympic Park   that is home to the Georgia Aquarium and future Center for Civil & Human Rights .
It opened to the public on May 24 , 2007 , relocating from and  replacing the  original exhibit .
Pretties is a 2005 science fiction novel and the second book of the Uglies Trilogy   written by Scott Westerfeld .
It is set in a future dystopian world in which everyone is turned `` Pretty ''  by extreme  cosmetic surgery upon reaching age 16 .
It tells the story  of किशोरावस्था  Tally Youngblood who rebels against society 's enforced conformity .
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26 , 1971 ) is an American woman sentenced to life   in prison for murdering her children .
Born in Union , South Carolina , and a former student of the University of South Carolina Union , she was convicted on July 22 , 1995 for murdering her two sons , 3-year-old Michael Daniel  Smith  , born October 10 , 1991 , and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith , born August 5 , 1993 .
The case gained worldwide attention shortly  बाद it विकसित , due to उसके claiming  that a black man stole her car and kidnapped her sons .
She later claimed that she suffered from  दिमागी  health issues that impaired her judgment .
According to the South Carolina Department of Corrections  , स्मिथ होगा be योग्य लिये  parole on November 4 , 2024 , after serving a minimum of thirty years .
She is incarcerated at South Carolina 's Leath  correctional  Institution , near Greenwood .
Mount McKinley   ( also known as Denali taken from the Inuit Koyukon Athabaskan language meaning `` The Great One '' ) is the highest mountain peak in the United States and in North America with a summit elevation of above sea level .
At some , the base to peak  वृद्धि  is considered the largest of any mountain situated entirely above sea level .
Measured by topographic prominence , it is the third most prominent peak after Mount Everest   and Aconcagua .
Located in the Alaska Range in the interior of US state of  Alaska , it  is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve .
the पहला  European to document sighting the mountain was George Vancouver in 1794 .
In 1903 , James Wickersham recorded   the first attempt at climbing McKinley which was unsuccessful .
In 1906 , Frederick Cook claimed the first  ascent जिससे थी  later proven to be false .
The first verifiable ascent to McKinley 's summit was achieved on June 7 ,  1913 by  climbers Hudson Stuck , Harry Karstens , Walter Harper , and Robert Tatum .
in 1951 , ब्रैडफोर्ड washburn pioneered the वेस्ट buttress रूट माना to be the safest और easiest रूट और इसलिए the सबसे लोकप्रिय फिलहाल in उपयोग  .
The Honda S600 is an automobile manufactured  by होंडा  .
It  थी  launched in March 1964 .
Available as a roadster – bearing strong resemblance to the Honda S500 – and as a fastback coupé  –  introduced in March 1965 – the S600 was the first Honda available in two trim levels .
During its production  run up to 1966 , the model  styling would remain pretty much the same , with the most notable changes coming to the front grille , bumper , and headlights .
Powered by a   DOHC , water-cooled , four-cylinder inline engine with four carburetors , the engine capacity was increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc .
The engine produced at 8,500 rpm and  had a  top speed of .
With  the  convertible weighing in at mere , the extra sheet metal of the coupe only added to the overall weight .
बर्खास्तगी  was independent with sealed roller chain drive to each rear wheel .
The S600  was the  first mass marketed Honda car .
First offered only in right-hand drive , it soon became available in left-hand drive to  अपील to निर्यात बाज़ार  .
There were a few  pre-production  S500s manufactured in left hand drive , two or three even being shown in some early sales brochures .
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a special , upgraded package called the SM600 which included , among other items , special paint colors , exclusive badging , a standard radio and speaker , a special antenna in the passenger side sun visor , standard reversing lights , a standard cigarette lighter , a standard heater , better  cushioned सीटे , और a detachable सीट track लिये जल्दी हटाना  of the passenger seat .
Honda built 3,912 roadsters in 1964 , with production climbing to 7,261   convertibles and 1,519 coupes in 1965 .
उत्पादन dropped बंद in 1966 ( as वे यहूद  shifting to the S800 ) with only 111 roadsters and 281 coupes , giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles and 1,800 coupes for the 3 year span .
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television period sitcom that depicts the teenage experiences of comedian  क्रिस चट्टान ( जो is भी the  narrator ) while growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn , New York .
The show is set  between 1983 और  1987 ; however , Rock himself was a teenager between 1978 and 1983 .
Rock grew up with a boy named Kenny Montero , whom he has often referred to as the inspiration for  a लॉट of the एपीसोड  .
In many interviews , Rock has described Kenny as the reason he  मिला  into comedy in the first place .
The show 's title  parodies  the CBS sitcom Everybody Loves Raymond .
Rock stated : ``  everybody  Loves Raymond but Everybody Hates Chris ! `` .
The show 's lead actors are Tyler James Williams  , टेरी क्रू , tichina अर्नाल्ड  , Tequan Richmond , Imani Hakim , and Vincent Martella .
In Fall 2008 , the The CW moved Everybody Hates  क्रिस  and The Game to the Friday night death slot .
The fourth season of the series premiered  शुक्रवार , अक्तूबर  3 , 2008 , at 8:00PM Eastern/7:00PM Central .
On May 21 , 2009 , The CW announced  कि it  had cancelled Everybody Hates Chris .
Prior to this , executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season 4  matched up साथ उसके अपना past—dropping  out of high school to become a comedian—and that it was time to end the show .
Pleural effusion is excess fluid that accumulates between  the  two pleural layers , the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs .
Excessive amounts of such fluid can impair breathing by limiting the  विस्तार  of the lungs during ventilation .
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title  of an Old English heroic epic poem  consisting of 3182 alliterative long lines , set in Scandinavia , commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature .
It survives   in a single manuscript known as the Nowell Codex .
Its composition by an anonymous Anglo-Saxon  कवि is  dated between the 8th and the early 11th century .
In 1731 , the  पाण्डुलिपि थी badly क्षतिग्रस्त by a आग कि swept through a भवन आवास a संग्रहण of मध्यकालीन पांडुलिपियों समवेत by सर रॉबर्ट ब्रूस कपास .
The poem fell into obscurity  लिये दशकों  , and its existence did not become widely known again until it was printed in 1815 in an edition prepared by the Icelandic-Danish scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin .
In the poem , Beowulf , a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia , comes to the help of Hroðgar , the king of the Danes , whose mead hall ( in Heorot ) has been under attack by a monster  known as Grendel  .
After  बियोवुल्फ़  slays him , Grendel 's mother attacks the hall and is then also defeated .
विजयी , बियोवुल्फ़ goes घर to geatland in स्वीडन और बाद becomes किंग of the geats  .
बाद a काल  of fifty years has passed , Beowulf defeats a dragon , but is fatally wounded in the battle .
After his death , his attendants bury him in a  tumulus  , a burial mound , in Geatland .
Shem Ham and Japheth by James Tissot 1904  .
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም , Sēm ; `` renown ; prosperity ; name '' ) was one of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as well as in  Islamic  literature .
He is most popularly  regarded as the ज्येष्ठ  son , though some traditions regard him as the second son .
Genesis 10:21  refers to सापेक्ष  ages of Shem and his brother Japheth , but with sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations .
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also , the father of all the children of Eber , the brother of  Japheth the  elder , even to him were children born . `` .
However , the New American Standard Bible  देता , `` भी to shem , the पिता  of all the children of Eber , and the older brother of Japheth , children were born . ''
उत्पत्ति 11:10 रिकॉर्ड कि shem थी स्टिल 100 सालो बूढ़ा at the जनम of arphaxad , ( लकिन nearly 101 - देखिए कालक्रम नोट , ) दो सालो बाद the बाढ़ , बनाना उसे मुश्किल 99 at the समय the बाढ़ began ; और कि he जिया लिये another 500 सालो बाद इस , बनाना उसके आयु at मौत 600 सालो .
The children of Shem were Elam , Asshur , Arphaxad , Lud ,  और  Aram , in addition to daughters .
Abraham , the patriarch of the Hebrews and Arabs , was one of the descendants   of Arphaxad .
इस्लामी साहित्य  describes Shem as one of the believing sons of Noah .
Some sources  भी पहचानो shem  as a prophet in his own right and that he was the next prophet after his father .
In one Muslim legend , Shem was one of the people that God made Jesus resurrect as a  चिह्न to  the Children of Israel .
the 1st सदी  historian Flavius Josephus , among many others , recounted the tradition that these five sons were the progenitors of the nations of Elam , Assyria , Chaldea , Lydia , and Syria , respectively .
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages , as a subset of the Afro-Asiatic languages , denoting the common linguistic heritage of  Arabic ,  Aramaic , Akkadian , Ethiopic , Hebrew and Phoenician languages .
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g. , B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers Rabbah 4:8 . ) , Shem is believed to have been Melchizedek , King of Salem whom Abraham is recorded to have met after the battle of the  चार  kings .
In a few of the many extra-biblical sources that describe him , Shem is also credited with killing   Nimrod , son of Cush .
Shem is mentioned  in Genesis  5:32 , 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27 ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4 .
Geographic identifications of Flavius Josephus , c. 100 AD ; Japheth 's sons shown in red , Ham 's  बेटे in  blue , Shem 's sons in green .
Go Daddy or Go Daddy  Group Inc. is  a privately held company that is primarily an internet domain registrar and web hosting company .
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed for an IPO in 2006 , but later  रद्द it , due to  `` market uncertainties '' .
In addition to domain registration  और  hosting Go Daddy also sells e-business related software and services .
On June 24 , 2011 , The Wall Street Journal reported that private-equity firms KKR   and Silver Lake Partners , along with a third investor , were nearing a deal to buy the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion .
On July 1 , 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR , Silver Lake  Partners and  Technology Crossover Ventures had closed the deal .
Although the purchase price was not officially announced it was reported to be $ 2.25   billion , for 65 % of the company .
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy to Warren  adelman  , who had been with the company for about 10 years .
The Andorran coat of arms at the  andorran  parliament .
Andorra ( ; , ) , officially the Principality of Andorra ( ) , also  called  the Principality of the Valleys of Andorra , ( ) , is a landlocked microstate in Southwestern Europe , located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France .
It is the sixth smallest nation in Europe  ,  having an area of and an estimated population of 85,000 in 2012 .
Its capital , Andorra la Vella , is the highest  पूंजी  city in Europe , at an elevation of above sea level .
The official   language is Catalan , although Spanish , Portuguese , and French are also commonly spoken .
Created under a charter in 988   , the present Principality was formed in 1278 .
It is known as a principality as it is a monarchy headed by two co-princes – the Bishop of  urgell  and the President of France .
Andorra is a prosperous country mainly because of its tourism industry , which services an estimated 10.2 million visitors annually , and also because of its  औकात  as a tax haven .
It is  नहीं  a member of the European Union , but the euro is the de facto currency .
The people of Andorra have the 4th highest human life expectancy in the  संसार — 82 सालो  at birth .
The George Washington University ( GW , GWU  , or जार्ज  Washington ) is a comprehensive private , coeducational research university located in Washington , D.C. .
It awards certificates , Bachelor degrees , Masters degrees , and PhDs  आरपार  several dozen disciplines .
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on February  9  , 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia .
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born October 21 , 1980 ) is an American  socialite  , television personality and occasional actress .
In 2007 , she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that subsequently resulted in a court awarding her $ 5 million ;  बाद  in that same year , she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping  Up with the  Kardashians , and its subsequent spin-offs , including Kourtney and Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
In 2010 ,  कार्दशियन  was the highest-earning reality star , with estimated earnings of $ 6 million .
With sisters Kourtney and Khloé ,  कार्दशियन  co-owns the fashion boutique chain D-A-S-H .
She has been involved in the   production of several lines of clothing and fragrances .
In August 2011 , Kardashian married basketball player Kris Humphries in a  widely  publicized ceremony .
That October ,  कार्दशियन दायर  for divorce following 72 days of marriage .
the  move garnered significant backlash from the media , who labeled it a `` publicity stunt '' .
After 536 days , Kardashian and Humphries reached an undisclosed settlement  at the Los  Angeles Superior Court , finalizing the divorce in April 2013 .
Aerial view of Oahu with freeways and highways , 3D  computer-generated चित्र
fly-around  tour of the island
Oahu ( ) or Oahu , known as `` The Gathering Place '' , is the third largest of the Hawaiian Islands and the most  populous of  the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii .
The state capital , Honolulu , is on  oahu  's southeast coast .
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the islands in Kaneohe Bay and off the eastern ( windward ) coast , it has a total land area of , making it the 20th   largest island in the United States .
In the greatest  आयाम , इस  volcanic island is long and across .
the लंबाई of the shoreline is .
The island is the result of two  पृथक  shield volcanoes : Waianae and Koolau , with a broad `` valley '' or saddle ( the central Oahu Plain ) between them .
The highest  पाइंट  is Mt . Ka'ala in the Waianae Range , rising to above sea level .
The base currency  of the  United States is the U.S. dollar , and is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1 , $ 2 , $ 5 , $ 10 , $ 20 , $ 50 , and $ 100 .
At one time , however , U.S. currency included five larger denominations   .
Notes in the denominations of $ 500 , $ 1,000 , $ 5,000  ,  and $ 10,000 were printed for general use , and a $ 100,000 note was printed for certain internal transactions .
अंग्रेजों  Honduras was a British colony in Central America .
In 1981 , the colony gained full  स्वतंत्रता  , and is now the independent nation of Belize .
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th century , the territory on the east coast of Central  अमेरिका , दक्षिण of  Mexico , became a British crown colony in 1862 .
In  1964 , it became a self-governing उपनिवेश .
Belize became fully independent from   the United Kingdom in 1981 .
Belize was the last continental possession of the United Kingdom  in the americas  .
Spelt , also known as dinkel wheat , or hulled wheat , is an ancient species of wheat from  the  fifth millennium BC .
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze Age to medieval times  ; it now survives as a relict crop in  Central Europe and northern Spain and has found a new market as a health food .
Spelt is  sometimes माना a subspecies of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति आम गेहूं ( T. aestivum ) , in जिससे मामला इसके वनस्पति नाम is माना to be triticum aestivum subsp . spelta .
It is a hexaploid wheat , which means it has  छह सेट of  chromosomes .
शर्लक holmes  ( or ) is a fictional detective created by author and physician Sir Arthur Conan Doyle .
A London-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities border on the fantastic , Holmes is famous for his astute logical reasoning , his ability to adopt almost any  disguise ,  and his use of forensic science skills to solve difficult cases .
Holmes , who first appeared in publication in 1887 , was featured in  चार novels और  56 short stories .
The first novel , A Study in Scarlet , appeared in Beeton 's Christmas Annual in 1887 and the second , The Sign of the Four , in Lippincott 's  मासिक पत्रिका in 1890  .
The character grew tremendously in popularity with the first series of short stories in The Strand Magazine , beginning with A Scandal in Bohemia in 1891 ; further series  of short stories and two  novels published in serial form appeared between then and 1927 .
The stories cover a period  इससे  around 1880 up to 1914 .
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and biographer , Dr. John H. Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier `` and `` The Lion 's Mane `` ) and two others are written in  the तीसरा व्यक्ति ( `` the  Mazarin Stone `` and `` His Last Bow `` ) .
In two stories ( `` The Musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria Scott `` ) , Holmes tells Watson the main story from his memories , while Watson  becomes the narrator of the  frame story .
The first and fourth  novels , A  Study in Scarlet and The Valley of Fear , each include a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events unknown to either Holmes or Watson .
The United States House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the United States Congress  ( a  bicameral legislature ) .
It is frequently  referred  to as the House .
The  अन्य  house is the Senate .
The composition and powers of the  हाउस  are established in Article One of the United States Constitution .
the प्रमुख शक्ति of the हाउस is to pass संघीय विधान कि affects the संपूर्ण देश हालांकि इसके बिल्स जरूर भी be passed by the सीनेट और further सहमत to by the u.S. अध्यक्ष पहले बनने विधि ( जबतक दोनो the हाउस और सीनेट re-pass the विधान साथ a two-thirds बहुमत  in each chamber ) .
the हाउस रै अनेक विशेष शक्तियां : the शक्ति to initiate आय बिल्स , to impeach officials , और to elect the u.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला वहीँ is no बहुमत in the चुनावी कॉलेज .
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population but is entitled to at least one representative   .
The  सबसे  populous state , California , currently has 53 representatives .
The total number of voting  प्रतिनिधि  is fixed by law at 435 .
Each representative serves for   a two-year term .
The Speaker of the United  राज्य  House of Representatives , who presides over the chamber , is elected by the members of the House , and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The House  meets  in the south wing of the United States Capitol .
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft Foods for a number of gelatin desserts , including fruit  gels , puddings  and no-bake cream pies .
The brand  's लोकप्रियता रै led to it होने प्रयुक्त as a जेनेरिक पद लिये जिलेटिन मिठाई आरपार the u.S. और कनाडा .
Kennywood is an amusement park located in West   Mifflin , Pennsylvania , a suburb of Pittsburgh .
The park first  खोली  in 1898 as a `` trolley park '' attraction at the end of the Mellon family 's Monongahela Street Railway .
The park  थी खरीदा in 1906 by F. W. henninger और एंड्रयू mcswigan और यूँ began the kennywood entertainment कम्पनी कि रै remained a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार लिये over 100 सालो .
This traditional amusement park still has structures and rides dating back to its opening and the  जल्दी 1900s  .
Along with Rye Playland Park , it is one of only two amusement parks  सूचीबद्ध  in the National Register of Historic Places .
Kennywood  is स्वामित्व by kennywood entertainment कम्पनी , जिससे जबतक दिसम्बर 2007 थी a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार स्वामित्व by the henninger और mcswigan परिवारों .
Kennywood  entertainment  is now operated by California-based Palace Entertainment , a subsidiary of Parques Reunidos , an international amusement park company based in Madrid , Spain .
Parque Reunidos  is  in turn a subsidiary of Candover Investments , an investment fund based in the UK .
A Social Security card issued by the Railroad Retirement Board in 1943  to a अभी मृतक व्यक्ति  .
In the United States , a Social Security number ( SSN ) is a nine-digit number issued to U.S. citizens , permanent residents , and temporary ( working ) residents under section  205 ( c  ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act , codified as .
The number is issued to an individual by the Social Security Administration , an  स्वतंत्र एजेंसी of the  United States government .
इसके  primary purpose is to track individuals for Social Security purposes .
A Social Security number may be obtained by   applying on Form SS-5 , `` Application for A Social Security Number Card '' .
Minimalism describes movements in various forms of art and design , especially visual art and music , where the work is set out to expose the essence or identity of a subject  through eliminating सब non-essential फ़ॉर्म , सुविधाएँ  or concepts .
Minimalism is  कोई डिज़ाइन or स्टाइल  in which the simplest and fewest elements are used to create the maximum effect .
As a specific movement in the arts  it is पहचाना  with developments in post–World War II Western Art , most strongly with American visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s .
Prominent artists associated with this movement include  डोनाल्ड judd , जॉन mccracken  , Agnes Martin , Dan Flavin , Robert Morris , Anne Truitt , and Frank Stella .
It is rooted in the reductive  aspects  of Modernism , and is often interpreted as a reaction against Abstract expressionism and a bridge to Postminimal art practices .
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in music which features repetition and iteration , as in the compositions of  la मोंटे यंग , टेरी रिले , स्टीव reich  , Philip Glass , and John Adams .
अल्पतम रचनाएं  are sometimes known as systems music .
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to designate anything  कि is  spare or stripped to its essentials .
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett , the films of Robert Bresson  , the  stories of Raymond Carver , and even the automobile designs of Colin Chapman .
The word was first used in English in the early 20th century to describe the   Mensheviks .
In chemistry and physics , Dalton 's law ( also called Dalton 's law of partial  pressures ) राज्य कि the कुल दबाव exerted  by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases .
This empirical law was observed by John  डाल्टन  in 1801 and is related to the ideal gas laws .
mathematically  , the pressure of a mixture of gases can be defined as the summation
or
where represent the partial pressure of  प्रत्येक  component .
It is assumed that the gases do not react with  प्रत्येक  other
where is the mole  भिन्न of the i-th  component in the total mixture of n components .
The relationship below provides  a रास्ता to determine  the volume based concentration of any individual gaseous component
where is the concentration of the i-th component  expressed in  ppm .
Dalton 's  विधि is  not exactly followed by real gases .
Those deviations  हैं  considerably large at high pressures .
In such conditions , the volume occupied by the molecules can  become significant  compared to the free space between them .
In particular , the short average distances between molecules raises the intensity of  intermolecular शक्तियां between  gas molecules enough to substantially change the pressure exerted by them .
Neither of those effects are considered by the ideal  गैस मॉडल  .
This is a list of the largest United States colleges and universities by  नामांकन  for colleges and universities in the United States .
कया  this list includes:
Colleges   and universities within the United States
University systems if the system is run under  a सिंगल  administration
Enrollment is the sum of the headcount of  undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट  students
Enrollment is counted by the Integrated Post-secondary Education System within the U.S.  विभाग of शिक्षा  .
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated  headcount , indicating  the number of unique students who attended the university during the year .
What   this list does not include:
Any indication of how many of the enrolled students are full or part time ( e.g. , some  विश्वविद्यालयों may  have a high enrollment , but have most students enrolled in only a single class )
For other lists that  माप  university enrollment , see the See Also section below .
`` Right Round '' is a song performed by  अमरीकी rapper  Flo Rida , released as the lead single from his second studio album , R.O.O.T.S . ( 2009 ) .
The song features guest  vocals इससे  Kesha .
It was  released to रेडियो on 27 जनवरी 2009 और थी डिजिटली released on 10 फ़रवरी by पो लड़के entertainment और अटलांटिक रिकॉर्ड .
The song lyrically speaks of Flo Rida 's net ball referee enthusiasm , while adapting the chorus of the 1984 Dead or Alive song `` You Spin Me Round  ( जैसे  a Record ) `` in its hook .
according  to one of the song 's writers , the chorus refers to oral sex .
Kesha contributed guest  vocals to  the song , but in the United States , during the run atop the chart , Kesha was uncredited .
The song received mostly   negative reviews from critics , who claimed it was kitsch and misogynistic .
However , it was a commercial success , reaching the top ten of the charts in  उन्नीस  countries worldwide .
In the United States , it became Flo Rida 's  दूसरी number-one सिंगल और broke  the record for first-week sales when it was released to digital retailers .
the सिंगल 's accompanying म्यूज़िक वीडियो थी निर्देशित by मैल्कम जोन्स और मनोनीत लिये an एमटीवी  Video Music Award .
the सोंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in अनेक फिल्मों , ऐसे as the hangover , the भद्दा सच्चाई और the तेलुगु फिल्म pilla zamindar .
In the movie Pitch Perfect , the song is performed  by the a cappella  group the Treblemakers .
The Chief Justice of the United States is the head of the  United States federal  court system ( the judicial branch of the federal government of the United States ) and the chief judge of the Supreme Court of the United States .
the मुख्य इंसाफ is एक of नौ परम् अदालत justices ; the अन्य आठ हैं the संबद्ध justices of the परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य .
From 1789 until 1866 , the office was known as the Chief  इंसाफ of the  Supreme Court .
the मुख्य  Justice is the highest judicial officer in the country , and acts as a chief administrative officer for the federal courts and as head of the Judicial Conference of the United States appoints the director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts .
The Chief Justice also serves as a spokesperson  for  the judicial branch .
The  मुख्य  Justice leads the business of the Supreme Court .
He presides over oral arguments before  the  court .
When the court renders an opinion , the Chief Justice—when in the majority—decides who writes  the अदालत  's opinion .
The Chief  इंसाफ  also has significant agenda-setting power over the court 's meetings .
In the case of an impeachment of  a President  of the United States , which has occurred twice , the Chief Justice presides over the trial in the Senate .
In  आधुनिक परंपरा , the मुख्य इंसाफ  has the ceremonial duty of administering the oath of office of the President of the United States .
The first Chief Justice was  जॉन  Jay .
The 17th   and current Chief Justice is John G. Roberts , Jr .
हिरण  near Prudhoe Bay , 1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a large  आयल फ़ील्ड  on Alaska 's North Slope .
It is the largest oil field in both the United States and in North   America , covering and originally containing approximately of oil .
The amount of recoverable oil in the field is more than double  that  of the next largest field in the United States , the East Texas oil field .
The field is operated by BP ; partners are  exxonmobil  and ConocoPhillips Alaska .
Labor  संघ हैं  legally recognized as representatives of workers in many industries in the United States .
Their activity today centers on collective bargaining over wages , benefits , and working conditions for their membership , and on representing their members in  विवादों साथ प्रबन्धन over उल्लंघनों of  contract provisions .
Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying activities   and electioneering at the state and federal level .
Most unions in America are aligned with one of  two larger umbrella  organizations : the AFL-CIO created in 1955 , and the Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005 .
Both advocate policies and legislation on behalf of workers in the United States and Canada , and take  an active role  in politics .
The  afl-cio is विशेषकर चिंतित साथ वैश्विक व्यापार मुद्दे .
In 2010 , the percentage of workers belonging to a union in the United States ( or total labor union `` density '' ) was 11.4 % , compared to 18.4 % in Germany ,  27.5  % in Canada , and 70 % in Finland .
Union membership in the private sector has fallen under 7 % —   levels not seen since 1932 .
Unions allege that  employer-incited  opposition has contributed to this decline in membership .
The most prominent unions are among public sector employees  such as  teachers and police .
सदस्यों of संघ हैं disproportionately पुरानी , पुरूष और निवासियों of the पूर्वोत्तर , the मिडवेस्ट , और कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Union workers average 10-30 % higher pay than non-union in America after controlling for individual  , job , and  labor market characteristics .
Although much smaller compared to their peak membership in the 1950s , American unions remain a prominent political factor , both through mobilization of their own memberships and through coalitions with like-minded activist  संगठन  around issues such as immigrant rights , trade policy , health care , and living wage campaigns .
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs , unions are currently advocating new `` card check `` federal legislation that would require employers to bargain with a union  if more than 50 % of  workers signed forms , or `` cards , '' stating they wish to be represented by that union .
The current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 days for a federally  पर्यवेक्षित secret-ballot कर्मचारी  referendum on the subject .
the अर्थशास्त्री जोसेफ stiglitz  has asserted that , `` Strong unions have helped to reduce inequality , whereas weaker unions have made it easier for CEOs , sometimes working with market forces that they have helped shape , to increase it . ''
The decline in unionization since WWII in the United States has been associated with a pronounced rise in  income and  wealth inequality .
A   Christian Lacroix fashion boutique
A boutique is a small shopping outlet  ,  especially one that specializes in elite and fashionable items such as clothing and jewelry .
the शब्द is फ्रेंच लिये `` दूकान '' , via लैटिन इससे यूनानी ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ) , `` storehouse  '' .
The term entered into everyday English use in the late 1960s when , for a brief period , London was the centre of the  fashion  trade .
Carnaby Street and the Kings Road were the focus of much media attention as home to the most  फैशनेबल boutiques  of the era .
Now the East of London has been regenerated  and more  Boutiques pop up in fashionable areas , such as Tower Bridge Road .
It can also refer to a specialised firm such as a boutique   investment bank or boutique law firm .
The word is often used to describe a property in the independent section of the hotel market ( such as The  Rockwell  in London ) in order to distinguish themselves from larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ) .
In  ऐसे मामले the establishments  aim to convey the idea that the operation is elite and highly specialised .
In the strictest sense of the word , boutiques would  be one-of-a-kind  but more generally speaking , some chains can be referred to as boutiques if they specialize in particular styles .
recently , the पद `` बुटीक '' रै प्रारंभ होने लागू to normally-mass-market वस्तुएं कि हैं either niche or उत्पादित in intentionally छोटी संख्याएँ at बहुत ऊँची कीमतें .
This may be referred to as  बुटीक  manufacturing .
For example , before the release of the Wii , a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo could become a `` boutique  video-game कम्पनी '' , producing खेल लिये niche ऑडियंस , बल्कि than  trying to compete directly with Microsoft and Sony .
In the traditional luxury- watch industry Scalfaro International is considered as the precursor in manufacturing  और बिक्री of bespoke  watches .
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible boutique manufacturing site  ,  which allows producing small series or even unique timepieces .
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made items and other truly one-of-a-kind items , others simply produce  t-shirts ,  stickers , and other fashion accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at unusually high prices .
In the early 1990s Selena started manufacturing  उसके  own line of women 's clothing .
खोलने दो boutiques labeled as `` सेलिना इत्यादि . बुटीक & सैलून '' एक स्तिथ in कॉर्पस christi और एक स्तिथ in सैन अंतोनियो , टेक्सास  .
One was due to open in Monterrey , Mexico , in 1995 but due  to उसके  death it was not opened .
Around 1999 the San Antonio location closed and the Corpus Christi location was closed in  2009 .
In late 1990s some European retail traders developed the idea of tailoring a shop towards a lifestyle theme , in the form of `` concept stores '' , which  specialised  in cross-selling without using separate departments .
One of  the पहला  concept stores was 10 Corso Como in Milan , Italy followed by Colette in Paris and Quartier 206 in Berlin .
Several well-known American chains such as Urban Outfitters , D-A-S-H , and The Gap , Australian chain Billabong and , though less common , Lord & Taylor adapted  to the  concept store trend after 2000 .
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a credit union headquartered in  वियना , वर्जिनिया , चार्टर्ड और regulated अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार  of the National Credit Union Administration ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government .
Navy Federal is the largest natural member ( or retail ) credit union in the world , both in  asset  size and in membership .
As of September 2012 , Navy   Federal had over $ 50 billion USD in assets , and over 4 million members .
Stevland Hardaway  Morris ( born May 13 ,  1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ) , known by his stage name Stevie Wonder , is an American singer , songwriter , and multi-instrumentalist , a child prodigy who developed into one of the most creative musical figures of the late 20th century .
Blind since shortly after birth , Wonder signed with Motown 's Tamla label at the age of eleven , and   continues to perform and record for Motown to this day .
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` Superstition `` , `` Sir Duke `` , `` You Are the Sunshine  of My  Life `` and `` I Just Called to Say I Love You `` .
Well known albums also include Talking  किताब , innervisions  and Songs in the Key of Life .
He has recorded more than thirty U.S. top ten  हिट्स और प्राप्त twenty-two  Grammy Awards , the most ever awarded to a male solo artist .
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for political causes , including his 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther  किंग , jr. 's जन्मदिवस a अवकाश in the  United States .
In 2009 , Wonder was  नामित a संयुक्त  Nations Messenger of Peace .
In 2008 , Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time  शीर्ष  Artists to celebrate the US singles chart 's fiftieth anniversary , with Wonder at number five .
By popular vote , Stevie was inducted into The  soulmusic हॉल of कीर्ति  at SoulMusic.com in December 2012 .
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '' , for mind/soul , and -ωσις `` -osis '' , for abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the mind , and is a generic psychiatric term for a mental state often described as involving  a ``  loss of contact with reality `` .
लोगों कष्ट इससे मनस्ताप हैं वर्णित as psychotic  .
Psychosis is given to the  अधिक कठोर  forms of psychiatric disorder , during which hallucinations and delusions , gross excitement or stupor and impaired insight may occur .
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad and can mean anything from relatively normal aberrant experiences through to the complex and catatonic  expressions of schizophrenia और द्विध्रुवी  type 1 disorder .
Moreover a wide variety of central nervous system diseases , from both external substances and internal physiologic illness , can  उपज  symptoms of psychosis .
This led many professionals to say that psychosis is not specific enough as a diagnostic   term .
Despite this , `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( negative   signs ) and more commonly to diverse types of hallucinations or delusional beliefs ( e.g . grandiosity , delusions of persecution ) .
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '' , whereas one exhibiting very subtle signs  could  be classified in the category of an `` attenuated psychotic risk syndrome '' .
An excess in dopaminergic  signalling is  traditionally linked to the positive symptoms of psychosis , especially those of schizophrenia .
This is thought to occur through a mechanism of aberrant salience of environmental  stimuli  .
Many antipsychotic drugs accordingly target the dopamine system ; meta-analyses of  placebo-controlled ट्रायल of ये दवाएँ , however ,  show either no significant difference between drug and placebo , or a very small effect size , suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system .
People experiencing psychosis may exhibit some personality changes and thought   disorder .
depending on इसके गंभीरता , इस may be accompanied by असामान्य or विचित्र बर्ताव , as खूब as परेशानी साथ सोशल बातचीत और पुतलियों in carrying आउट रोज़ जीवन क्रियाएँ .
General Grievous is a  fictional  character in the Star Wars universe .
A recurring antagonist , he is the Supreme Commander of the Confederacy of Independent  प्रणालियों ,  a political faction of planetary systems waging war on the Galactic Republic .
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat by Count Dooku , he is a ruthless and powerful warrior  devoted  to Jedi 's destruction during the Clone Wars .
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi body   count would prompt the galaxy to give him the nickname the Knightslayer .
Though the notorious Jedi slayer was the being in the galaxy during the Clone Wars who had killed  the most Jedi in  single combat , he did not hesitate to flee from battles he knew he would lose .
Statistics play an important role in summarizing baseball performance and evaluating players   in the sport .
चूंकि the प्रवाह of a बेसबॉल खेल रै प्राकृतिक ब्रेक to it , और सामान्यतः खिलाड़ी अधिनियम individually बल्कि than performing in क्लस्टर , the खेल lends itself to आसान record-keeping और  statistics .
Statistics  have  been kept for professional baseball since the creation of the National League and American League , now part of Major League Baseball .
Many statistics are also available  इससे  outside of Major League Baseball , from leagues such as the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players and the Negro Leagues .
Dorothea Lange 's Migrant Mother depicts destitute pea pickers in California , centering on Florence Owens Thompson , age  32 , a mother of  seven children , in Nipomo , California , March 1936 .
USA annual real GDP from 1910–60 , with the years of the Great Depression (  1929–1939  ) highlighted .
The unemployment  rate  in the US 1910–1960 , with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression was a severe worldwide economic depression  in the दशक preceding  World War II .
The timing of the Great Depression varied across nations , but  in सबसे  countries it started in 1930 and lasted until the late 1930s or middle 1940s .
It was the longest , most widespread , and deepest depression  of  the 20th century .
In the 21st century , the Great Depression is commonly used as an example of how far the world 's  अर्थव्यवस्था  can decline .
The depression originated in the U.S. , after the fall in stock prices that began around September  4  , 1929 , and became worldwide news with the stock market crash of October 29 , 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ) .
The Great Depression had devastating  प्रभाव in  countries rich and poor .
Personal income , tax revenue , profits and prices dropped ,  जबकि अंतरराष्ट्रीय  trade plunged by more than 50 % .
Unemployment in the  u.S. रोज़  to 25 % , and in some countries rose as high as 33 % .
Cities all around the world were hit hard ,  विशेषकर  those dependent on heavy industry .
Construction  थी  virtually halted in many countries .
खेती  and rural areas suffered as crop prices fell by approximately 60 % .
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate sources of jobs , areas dependent on primary sector industries such as cash cropping ,  खनन और  logging suffered the most .
Some economies started to recover  by the mid-1930s  .
In many countries ,  the ऋणात्मक प्रभाव  of the Great Depression lasted until the end of World War II .
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ) , also known as a premature ventricular complex ,  ventricular premature contraction (  or complex or complexes ) ( VPC ) , ventricular premature beat ( VPB ) , or ventricular extrasystole ( VES ) , is a relatively common event where the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node , the normal heartbeat initiator .
The electrical events of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram  allow a पीवीसी to be easily  distinguished from a normal heart beat .
A PVC may be  आभास  as a `` skipped beat `` or felt as palpitations in the chest .
In a normal heartbeat , the ventricles contract after the atria have helped to fill them by contracting  ; in इस रास्ता the ventricles can  pump a maximized amount of blood both to the lungs and to the rest of the body .
In a PVC , the ventricles   contract first and before the atria have optimally filled the ventricles with blood , which means that circulation is inefficient .
However , single beat PVC arrhythmias do not usually pose a danger and   can be asymptomatic in healthy individuals .
William Gary Busey ( born June 29 , 1944 ) , better known  as  Gary Busey , is an American film and stage actor , and artist .
He has appeared in a variety of films , including Lethal Weapon , Point Break , and Under Siege , as well as guest appearances on Gunsmoke , Walker , Texas Ranger , Law & Order , and  अनुगामी  .
He was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor in 1978 for his role in The Buddy Holly Story  .
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ) , is a multinational treaty for the purpose of establishing   international standards for intellectual property rights enforcement .
The   agreement aims to establish an international legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods , generic medicines and copyright infringement on the Internet , and would create a new governing body outside existing forums , such as the World Trade Organization , the World Intellectual Property Organization , or the United Nations .
The agreement was signed in October 2011 by Australia  , Canada ,  Japan , Morocco , New Zealand , Singapore , South Korea , and the United States .
In 2012 , Mexico , the European  संघ और  22 countries which are member states of the European Union signed as well .
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement , which would come into  force in  countries that ratified it after ratification by six countries .
Supporters have described the agreement as a response to `` the increase in global trade of counterfeit goods and pirated copyright protected   works '' .
Trades Unions representing workers in the music , film and TV industries and large intellectual property-based organizations such as the Motion Picture Association  of अमेरिका और फार्मास्युटिकल शोध और निर्माताओं  of America were active in the treaty 's development .
Opponents say the convention adversely affects fundamental rights including  freedom of expression and  privacy .
ACTA has   also been criticised by Doctors Without Borders for endangering access to medicines in developing countries .
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups , developing countries and the general public from the agreement 's negotiation process and it has been described as policy laundering by critics including the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the  entertainment  Consumers Association .
The signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in the resignation in protest of the European Parliament 's appointed chief investigator , rapporteur Kader Arif , as well as widespread protests  आरपार  Europe .
In 2012 the newly-appointed rapporteur , British MEP David Martin , recommended against  the  treaty , stating : `` The intended benefits of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties '' .
On 4 July  2012 , the European  Parliament rejected the agreement in plenary session , with 478 voting against the treaty , 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining .
faw  semi-trailer truck in China
ट्रैक्टर  with side dump trailer semi-trailer
A  ट्रैक्टर  with an auto-transport semi-trailer .
Semi-trailer truck  साथ स्लीपर  behind the cab .
A semi-trailer truck is an articulated vehicle that consists of  a towing इंजन ,  known as a tractor in the United States and truck in many other places , attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight .
It is also  ज्ञात  as a transport in Canada , prime mover in Australia , semi , tractor-trailer , truck and trailer , transfer truck , 18-wheeler , mack truck , big rig in the United States , or artic , short for articulated lorry , in Britain and Ireland .
A semi-trailer does not trail completely behind the towing vehicle , but is  संलग्न at a पाइंट  that is just forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit .
इस is किया so कि  a fraction of the weight of the trailer is carried by the prime mover .
This arrangement means that both tractor and semi-trailer will have a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and  ट्रेलर  .
The Pittsburgh Steelers are a professional football  टोली  based in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the American  फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन  ( AFC ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Founded in , the Steelers are the oldest franchise  in  the AFC .
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl titles  ( छह ) , जीती अधिक  AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and played in ( fifteen ) and hosted more ( eleven ) conference championship games than any other AFC or NFC team .
The Steelers share  the record  for most Super Bowl appearances with the Dallas Cowboys ( eight ) .
The  स्टीलर्स जीती उनके सबसे हाल चैंपियनशिप , सुपर कटोरी xliii , on फ़रवरी 1 , 2009 .
The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on July 8 , 1933 , by Art Rooney , taking its original name from the baseball team of the same name , as was common practice  for NFL  teams to do at the time .
The ownership of the  स्टीलर्स रै  remained within the Rooney family since its founding .
The current owner is Art 's  बेटे , डान रूनी , जो रै  given much control of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II .
Long one of the NFL 's flagship teams , the Steelers enjoy a large  ,  widespread fanbase nicknamed Steeler Nation .
The Steelers currently play  उनके घर खेल at हाइन्ज़ फ़ील्ड on पिट्सबर्ग 's उत्तर पक्ष in the उत्तर shore पड़ोस , जिससे भी होस्ट the विश्वविद्यालयों of पिट्सबर्ग पैंथर्स .
Built in 2001 , the stadium replaced Three Rivers Stadium  which  hosted the Steelers for 31 seasons .
Prior to Three Rivers , the Steelers had played their games  in  Pitt Stadium and Forbes Field .
Three different kinds  of गेहूं  and rye flour
आटा is a चूर्ण जिससे is बना by पीस खाद्यान्न दाने , or अन्य बीज or जड़ें ( जैसे कसावा  ) .
It is the main ingredient of bread , which is a staple food for many cultures , making the availability of adequate supplies of flour a major economic and political issue at various times throughout   history .
Wheat flour is one  of  the most important foods in European , North American , Middle Eastern , Indian and North African cultures , and is the defining ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries .
While wheat is the  सबसे आम आधार लिये आटा , मकई आटा रै महरूम महत्वपूर्ण in mesoamerican भोजन चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स , और remains a स्टेपल throughout the americas .
Rye flour is an  महत्वपूर्ण  constituent of bread in much of central Europe , and rice can also be used in flour , though this is relatively uncommon .
Heart rate is  the क्रमांक  of heartbeats per unit of time , typically expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ) .
Heart rate can vary as the body 's need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide changes , such as during physical  कसरत , नींद  , illness , or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system stimulants such as amphetamines increase  दिल रेट  .
Central nervous system depressants or sedatives decreases the heart rate ( apart from some particularly strange ones with equally strange effects , such as ketamine which can cause - amongst many other things  -  stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ) .
There are many ways in which the heart rate  speeds up  or slows down .
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the brain , many of which are those that are 'forced'/'enticed ' out by  the ingestion और प्रसंस्करण  of drugs .
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume , one of the physiological ways to deliver more oxygen to an organ is to increase heart  rate  to permit blood to pass by the organ more often .
Normal resting heart  दरों  range from 60-100 bpm .
Bradycardia is defined as a  resting दिल  rate below 60 bpm .
However , heart rates from 50  to 60  bpm are common among healthy people and do not necessarily require special attention .
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm , though   persistent rest rates between 80-100 bpm , mainly if they are present during sleep , may be signs of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( see below ) .
Catherine II 's carved , painted and gilded Coronation Coach ( Hermitage Museum   )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people , usually horse-drawn ; litters  ( palanquins  ) and sedan chairs are excluded , since they are wheelless vehicles .
The carriage is especially  designed लिये निजी  passenger use and for comfort or elegance , though some are also used to transport goods .
It may be light , smart and  तेज़  or heavy , large and comfortable .
Carriages normally have suspension using leaf springs  ,  elliptical springs ( in the 19th century ) or leather strapping .
A public passenger vehicle would not usually be called a carriage – terms for such include stagecoach   , charabanc and omnibus .
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and ( two-wheeled ) cart share important parts of the  history  of the carriage , as is the fast ( two-wheeled ) chariot .
The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake was an undersea  megathrust  earthquake that occurred at 00:58:53 UTC on Sunday , 26 December 2004 , with an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra , Indonesia .
The quake itself is known by the scientific  जातियाँ  as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake .
The resulting tsunami was given various names , including the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami , South Asian tsunami , Indonesian  tsunami ,  and the Boxing Day tsunami .
The earthquake  थी caused by subduction और  triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the coasts of most landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean , killing over 230,000 people in fourteen countries , and inundating coastal communities with waves up to high .
It  थी  one of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history .
Indonesia was the hardest-hit country , followed   by Sri Lanka , India , and Thailand .
With a magnitude of Mw 9.1–9.3 , it is the  तीसरा largest  earthquake ever recorded on a seismograph .
The earthquake had the  longest  duration of faulting ever observed , between 8.3 and 10 minutes .
It caused the entire   planet to vibrate as much as and triggered other earthquakes as far away as Alaska .
इसके epicentre  was between Simeulue and mainland Indonesia .
The plight of  the  affected people and countries prompted a worldwide humanitarian response .
In all , the worldwide  जातियाँ  donated more than $ 14 billion ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid .
भाप उठती इससे the nesjavellir geothermal शक्ति स्टेशन in आइसलैंड  .
Geothermal energy is thermal energy generated and  stored in  the Earth .
Thermal energy is the energy that determines the  तापमान  of matter .
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the planet ( 20 %  ) और इससे  radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface , drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy  in the form  of heat from the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal originates from  the  Greek roots γη ( ge ) , meaning earth , and θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning hot .
At the core of the Earth , thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and  temperatures  may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ) .
Heat  conducts इससे  the core to surrounding cooler rock .
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt , creating  magma  convection upward since it is lighter than the solid rock .
The magma heats rock and water in the  क्रस्ट  , sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ) .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for  स्पेस हीटिंग चूंकि  ancient Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide , about   10,715 megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating , space heating ,  स्पा  , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal power is cost effective , reliable , sustainable , and  environmentally  friendly , but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable  संसाधन  , especially for applications such as home heating , opening a potential for widespread exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth , but these emissions are much  निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा  unit than those of fossil fuels .
As a result , geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global warming  if widely  deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply   humanity 's energy needs , but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and exploration for deep resources is  very  expensive .
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions about technology , energy prices , subsidies  ,  and interest rates .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like  geothermal  .
But as a result of government assisted research and industry experience , the cost of generating geothermal power  has decreased by 25 % over the  past two decades .
In 2001 , geothermal   energy cost between two and ten cents per kwh .
The term cubic foot is an Imperial and US customary ( non- metric ) unit of volume , used in the United States and the  संयुक्त  Kingdom .
It is defined as the volume of a cube with sides of one foot ( 0.3048  m  ) in length .
To calculate cubic feet  multiply  length X width X height .
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation : , Southern Vietnamese pronunciation  : ) ; 19 May 1890 – 2 September 1969 ) ,  born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn Ái Quốc , was a Vietnamese communist revolutionary leader who was prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ) .
He was a key figure in the foundation of  the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र  of Vietnam in 1945 , as well as the People’s Army of Vietnam ( PAVN ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War .
He led the Việt Minh independence movement from 1941 onward , establishing the communist -ruled Democratic Republic  of  Vietnam in 1945 and defeating the French Union in 1954 at the battle of Điện Biên Phủ .
He officially stepped down from power in  1955  due to health problems , but remained a highly visible figurehead and inspiration for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united , communist Vietnam—until his death .
After the war , Saigon , capital of the Republic of Vietnam , was renamed Hồ Chí Minh  नगर  .
All Roads Lead Home is a feature film released   on September 26 , 2008 .
Directed by Dennis Fallon , it stars  Peter Boyle , Patton  Oswalt , Jason London , Vivien Cardone , Vanessa Branch , Peter Coyote , Stephen Milton , and Allan Kayser .
The movie was filmed in and around Kansas City , Missouri  .
The movie made its World  प्रीमियर  January 27 at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival .
The film has also recently been in several film festivals , and has received bad  समीक्षाएँ  .
Peter   Boyle died before the movie 's release .
It was the last  फिल्म  he appeared in .
Sales taxes in the United States are taxes placed on the  बिक्री or पट्टे of goods  and services in the United States .
While no  नेशनल  general sales tax exists , the federal government levies several national selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods and services .
Furthermore , forty-five states , the District of Columbia , and Guam impose general sales taxes that apply to the sale or lease of most goods and some  सेवाएं , और राज्य भी  may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services .
States may also delegate to local  सरकारें  the authority to impose additional general or selective sales taxes .
Sales tax is calculated by  multiplying the  purchase price by the applicable tax rate .
Tax rates vary widely by jurisdiction and range from  कम than  1 % to over 10 % .
Sales tax is collected  by  the seller at the time of sale .
Use tax is self  assessed  by a buyer who has not paid sales tax on a taxable purchase .
Unlike the value added tax , a sales tax is imposed   only once , at the retail level .
However , in cases where items are sold at retail more than once , such as used  गाड़ियाँ  , the sales tax can be charged on the same item indefinitely .
The definition of retail sales and what goods and services are taxable vary among the  राज्य  .
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous categories of goods and services that are exempt from sales tax , or taxed  at reduced  rates .
The purchase of goods for further manufacture   or for resale is uniformly exempt from sales tax .
Most jurisdictions exempt food  बेची in किराना  stores , prescription medications , and many agricultural supplies .
Sales taxes , including those imposed by local governments , are generally administered at the  राज्य  level .
States   imposing sales tax require retail sellers to collect tax from customers , file returns , and remit the tax to the state .
Procedural rules   vary widely .
Sellers generally must collect tax from in-state purchasers  जबतक  the purchaser provides an exemption certificate .
Most  राज्य  allow or require electronic remittance .
A central processing   unit ( CPU ) , also referred to as a central processor unit , is the hardware within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetical , logical , and input/output operations of the system .
the पद रै महरूम in उपयोग in the कंप्यूटर उद्योग at तनिक चूंकि the जल्दी 1960s .
The form , design , and  implementation of  CPUs have changed over the course of their history , but their fundamental operation remains much the same .
A computer  can  have more than one CPU ; this is called multiprocessing .
Some  एकीकृत circuits ( ics ) can contain अनेक cpu on a सिंगल चिप ; those ics हैं पुकारा multi-core processors .
Two typical components of a CPU are the arithmetic logic unit ( ALU ) , which performs arithmetic and logical operations , and the control unit ( CU ) , which extracts instructions from memory  और decodes और चलाता उन्हें , कॉलिंग on the  ALU when necessary .
Not all computational  प्रणालियों  rely on a central processing unit .
An array processor or  वेक्टर प्रोसेसर  has multiple parallel computing elements , with no one unit considered the `` center '' .
in the वितरित कम्प्यूटिंग मॉडल , समस्याएं हैं हल by a वितरित interconnected नियत of processors .
RFID chip next  to  a grain of rice .
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a coded identification number  जब queried  by a reader device .
This small type is  incorporated  in consumer products , and implanted in pets , for identification purposes .
radio-frequency पहचान  ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data , for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects .
The tags  contain  electronically stored information .
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges  (  a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local  शक्ति सोर्स ऐसे as a बैटरी , or else have no बैटरी  but collect energy from the interrogating EM field , and then act as a passive transponder to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ) .
Battery powered tags may operate at  सैंकड़ों  of meters .
Unlike a bar code , the tag does not necessarily need  to be within  line of sight of the reader , and may be embedded in the tracked object .
RFID tags are used in   many industries .
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track its progress through  the सभा  line .
Pharmaceuticals can be tracked   through warehouses .
Livestock and pets may have   tags injected , allowing positive identification of the animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing , possessions , or even  implanted भीतर लोगों  , the possibility of reading personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns .
Overtime is the amount of time  किसी works  beyond normal working hours .
Normal  घंटों  may be determined in several ways:
by कस्टम  ( what is considered healthy or reasonable by society ) ,
by practices of a given trade or  profession,
by  legislation,
by agreement between employers and  मजदूर  or their representatives .
Most nations have overtime labor laws designed to dissuade or prevent employers from forcing their employees to work  excessively  long hours .
These laws may take into account  अन्य considerations  than the humanitarian , such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive , or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy .
One common approach to regulating overtime is to require employers to pay workers  at a  higher hourly rate for overtime work .
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged  to  do so by law , particularly if they believe that they face a backward bending supply curve of labour .
ओवरटाइम अदा  rates can cause workers to work longer hours than they would at a flat hourly rate .
Overtime laws , attitudes toward overtime and hours of work vary greatly from country to country and   between different economic sectors .
Visualization of links between pages  on  a wiki using a force-directed layout .
Force-directed   graph drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aesthetically pleasing way .
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length  और वहीँ हैं as few क्रासिंग  edges as possible , by assigning forces among the set of edges and the set of nodes , based on their relative positions , and then using these forces either to simulate the motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize their energy .
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem , force-directed algorithms , being physical simulations , usually require no special knowledge about graph theory such as   planarity .
खरीदना शक्ति ( sometimes retroactively पुकारा समायोजित लिये महंगाई ) is the राशि of goods or सेवाएं कि can be खरीदा साथ a ईकाई of करेंसी  .
For example , if you had taken one dollar to a store in the 1950s , you would have been able to buy a greater number of items than you would today ,  indicating  that you would have had a greater purchasing power in the 1950s .
Currency can be  either  a commodity money , like gold or silver , or fiat currency , or free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars .
As Adam Smith noted , having money gives one the ability to `` command '' others ' labor , so purchasing power to some  extent is शक्ति over  other people , to the extent that they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency .
If one 's monetary income stays the same , but the price   level increases , the purchasing power of that income falls .
Inflation   does not always imply falling purchasing power of one 's money income since it may rise faster than the price level .
A  उच्चतर रियल आय अर्थात् a उच्चतर खरीदना शक्ति चूंकि रियल आय refers to the आय समायोजित लिये महंगाई .
For a price index , its value in the base year is  प्रायः  normalized to a value of 100 .
The purchasing power  of a ईकाई of करेंसी , कह a डालर , in a दिए साल , expressed in डॉलर of the आधार साल , is 100/p , जहाँ p is the दाम अनुक्रमणिका in कि साल .
So , by definition the purchasing power of a dollar decreases as  the  price level rises .
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount C of money , t  सालो into the  future , can be computed with the formula for the present value :
where in this case i is an assumed future annual   inflation rate .
Education in South Korea is viewed as being  निर्णायक  for success and competition is consequently very heated and fierce .
A central administration oversees the  प्रक्रम लिये the शिक्षा  of children from kindergarten to the third and final year of high school .
Mathematics , science , Korean , English , and social studies are generally considered to be the  सबसे  important subjects .
Normally physical education is not considered important as it is not recognised , by the generally academic elitist South Korean populace , as education and therefore many schools  lack high-quality  gymnasiums and varsity athletics .
South Korea was the first country in the world to provide high-speed internet access to all primary , junior  , और ऊँची स्कूलों  .
Although South Korean students often rank highly on international comparative assessments when compared to students of most Western education systems , the South Korean education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive  सीखना और memorisation  .
the दक्षिण कोरियाई शिक्षा प्रणाली is बल्कि notably सख्त और overly संरचित as compared to इसके counterparts in सबसे  Western societies .
Also , the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ) , which too emphasise on passive memorisation , as opposed to conceptual understanding , in students are criticised  as a  major social problem .
The My Lai Massacre ( , ; , , or ) was the Vietnam War mass murder of between 347 and 504 unarmed civilians in South Vietnam on March 16 , 1968 , by United States Army soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st Battalion , 20th Infantry Regiment , 11th Brigade of the  americal प्रभाग  .
Victims  शामिल  women , men , children , and infants .
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies were later found to be mutilated and many women were allegedly  raped prior to the  killings .
While 26 U.S. soldiers were initially charged with criminal offenses for their actions at Mỹ Lai , only Second Lieutenant William  calley ,  a platoon leader in Charlie Company , was convicted .
Found guilty of killing 22 villagers  , he  was originally given a life sentence , but only served three and a half years under house arrest .
The massacre  took  place in the hamlets of My Lai and My Khe of Son My village .
The event is also known as the Son My Massacre , especially  in  the Vietnamese state media .
the u.S. सैन्य codeword लिये the `` viet cong stronghold '' थी `` pinkville  '' .
The incident prompted global outrage when it became  पब्लिक ज्ञान in 1969  .
the नरसंहार भी increased घरेलू विपक्ष to the u.S. भागीदारी in the वियतनाम युद्ध .
Three U.S. servicemen who  था आजमाया  to halt the massacre and protect the wounded were initially denounced by several U.S . Congressmen as traitors .
They received hate mail  और  death threats and found mutilated animals on their doorsteps .
The three were later widely praised and decorated by   the Army for their heroic actions .
the hijackers in the  September 11 attacks were 19 men affiliated with al-Qaeda , and 15 of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia .
Others were  इससे  Egypt , Lebanon , and the UAE .
The hijackers were organized into four teams , each led by a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers '' who were trained to help subdue the pilots ,  passengers , and  crew .
The first hijackers to arrive in the United States were Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf  al-hazmi  , who settled in the San Diego area in January 2000 .
They were followed by three  hijacker-pilots , मोहम्मद  Atta , Marwan al-Shehhi , and Ziad Jarrah early in the summer of 2000 to undertake flight training in south Florida .
The fourth  hijacker-pilot  , Hani Hanjour , arrived in San Diego in December 2000 .
The rest of the `` muscle hijackers '' arrived in the spring and early summer  of 2001 , बस महीने  before the September 11 attacks .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ) , also transliterated as  मुहम्मद ( ) , थी a धार्मिक , राजनैतिक  , and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam .
He is believed  by  Muslims and Bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God .
Muhammad is almost universally considered by Muslims as the last prophet sent  by  God for mankind .
non-muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the संस्थापक of islam  .
Muslims consider him  to be the restorer  of an unaltered original monotheistic faith of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets .
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city of Mecca , he was orphaned at an  जल्दी आयु  and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly as a merchant , as well as  a  shepherd , and was first married by age 25 .
होने in the आदत of periodically retreating to a गुफा in the surrounding kyu लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ , he बाद reported कि it थी वहीँ , at आयु 40 , कि he प्राप्त उसके पहला रहस्योद्घाटन इससे  God .
Three  years after this event  Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly , proclaiming that `` God is One `` , that complete `` surrender '' to Him ( lit .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God , and that  he  himself was a prophet and messenger of God , in the same vein as other Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few followers early on , and was met  साथ दुश्मनी  from some Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly .
to एस्केप persecution , मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of उसके अनुसरणकर्ता to अबीसीनिया पहले he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता in मक्का migrated to मदीना ( तब ज्ञात as yathrib ) in the साल  622 .
This event , the Hijra , marks the  शुरूआत of the इस्लामी  calendar , which is also known as the Hijri Calendar .
in  Medina , Muhammad united the tribes under the Constitution of Medina .
After eight years of fighting with the Meccan tribes , his  अनुसरणकर्ता  , who by then had grown to 10,000 , took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the pagan idols  in the  city and then sent his followers out to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
In 632 , a few months after returning to Medina from The   Farewell Pilgrimage , Muhammad fell ill and died .
By the time of his death , most of the Arabian Peninsula had  परिवर्तित to islam , और he था संयुक्त अरब  into a single Muslim religious polity .
The revelations ( or Ayah  ,  lit .
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his death – form the verses of the Quran , regarded by Muslims as the `` Word  of God ''  and around which the religion is based .
Besides the Quran , Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as  the स्त्रोत  of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and other prophets of Islam with reverence , adding the phrase peace  be upon  him whenever their names are mentioned .
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were  largely  negative , appraisals in modern history have been far less so .
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest people in the world in ordinal rank , such as oldest person  or oldest man  .
in ये टेबल , a supercentenarian is माना 'verified ' if उसके or उसके अर्जी रै महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically सौदे in आयु शोध , ऐसे as the जराविद्या शोध समूह ( grg ) or गिनीज  World Records .
The longest unambiguously   documented human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ) , who died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She met Vincent   van Gogh when she was 12 or 13 .
This led to news  मीडिया ध्यान  in 1985 , after Calment turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found   documentation for Calment 's age , beyond any reasonable question , in the records of her native city , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the  संसार 's oldest लोगों  .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura , who  currently lives  in Japan and is age as of .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini  of  the United States , on 17 December 2012 , Kimura , born 19 April 1897 , is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented .
He has also been the oldest living man  चूंकि  the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011 .
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013  , the oldest जीना स्त्री  has been -year-old Misao Okawa , also from Japan , born on 5 March 1898 .
This is a timeline of the  african-american  Civil Rights Movement .
The Civil Rights movement was a freedom struggle  by अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी  in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality .
The goals of the movement were freedom  इससे पक्षपात  , equal opportunity in employment , education and housing , the right to vote and equal access to public facilities .
Heavy metal ( often referred to as metal )  is a विधा of चट्टान म्यूज़िक कि विकसित  in the late 1960s and early 1970s , largely in the United Kingdom and in the United States .
With roots in blues  चट्टान और साइकेडेलिक  rock , the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick , massive sound , characterized by highly amplified distortion , extended guitar solos , emphatic beats , and overall loudness .
Heavy metal lyrics and performance  शैलियाँ  are generally associated with masculinity and machismo .
The first heavy metal bands such as Led Zeppelin , Deep Purple and Black Sabbath attracted large audiences , though they were often derided by critics , a status common throughout the history of the  विधा  .
in the mid-1970s  Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's evolution by discarding much of its blues influence ; Motörhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed .
Bands   in the New Wave of British Heavy Metal such as Iron Maiden followed in a similar vein .
पहले the समाप्त of the दशक , भारी मेटल प्रशंसक became ज्ञात as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers `` .
During the 1980s , glam metal became a  वाणिज्यिक  force with groups like Mötley Crüe and Poison .
Underground scenes produced an array of more  चरम  , aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the mainstream with bands such as Metallica , Megadeth , Slayer , and Anthrax , while other styles of the most extreme subgenres of metal like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena .
Since the mid-1990s , popular styles such as nu metal , which often incorporates elements of grunge and hip hop ; and metalcore , which blends extreme metal with hardcore punk , have further expanded  the definition of  the genre .
The far-right ( also known as the extreme right ) refers to the highest degree of rightism in right-wing  राजनीती  .
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society , and  supports सर्वोच्चता  of certain individuals or groups deemed to be innately superior or preferable who are to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable .
The far right 's advocacy of supremacism is based on what its adherents  perceive as  innate characteristics of people that can not be changed .
This stands as a point of difference with the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours , such as laziness or  decadence , as the  primary sources of social inequalities .
The centre right—unlike the far right—claims that people can end their behavioural inferiority through  बदलना उनके  habits and choices .
The original far right , which emerged in France after the French Revolution , refused to accept the French Republic and supported a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy  and  aristocracy .
The far right is commonly associated with persons or groups who hold extreme nationalist , xenophobic , racist , religious fundamentalist  or  reactionary views .
The most extreme-right movements have pursued oppression and genocide against groups of people on the basis  of their  alleged inferiority .
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4  December 1679 ) ,  in some older texts Thomas Hobbs of Malmsbury , was an English philosopher , best known today for his work on political philosophy .
His 1651 book Leviathan  स्थापित the  foundation for most of Western political philosophy from the perspective of social contract theory .
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign , but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which led to the later  भेद between सिविल समाज और the राज्य ) ; the दृश्य कि सब legitimate राजनैतिक  power must be `` representative '' and based on the consent of the people ; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid .
He was one of the founders of modern  राजनैतिक  philosophy .
उसके समझना of इंसानो as होने पदार्थ और गति , obeying the वही शारीरिक कानून as अन्य पदार्थ और गति , remains influential ; और उसके खाता of इंसान प्रकृति as self-interested सहयोग , और of राजनैतिक समुदायों as होने आधारित upon a `` सोशल अनुबंध `` remains एक of the प्रमुख विषय of राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र .
In  addition  to political philosophy , Hobbes also contributed to a diverse array of other fields , including history , geometry , the physics of gases , theology , ethics , and general philosophy .
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to identify , assess , and control the emotions  of  oneself , of others , and of groups .
It can be  विभाजित  into ability EI and trait EI .
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum  प्रदर्शन परीक्षण  and has stronger relationships with traditional intelligence , whereas trait EI is usually measured using self-report questionnaires and has stronger relationships with personality .
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real intelligence and whether it has incremental  वैध  over IQ and the Big Five personality traits .
Heredity is the  गुजर of  traits to offspring from its parents or ancestor .
This is the process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or  becomes  predisposed to the characteristics of its parent cell or organism .
Through heredity ,  विसंगतियाँ exhibited  by individuals can accumulate and cause some species to evolve .
The study of heredity in biology is called genetics ,  जिससे  includes the field of epigenetics .
For United States individual income tax , adjusted gross income ( AGI  ) is कुल  gross income minus specific reductions .
Taxable income is adjusted gross income minus allowances for personal  छूटों और itemized  deductions .
For most individual tax purposes , AGI is more  प्रासंगिक  than gross income .
सकल  income is sales price of goods or property , minus cost of the property sold , plus other income .
It includes wages ,  ब्याज , dividends , कारोबार आय , rental आय , और सब अन्य प्रकार of आय .
Adjusted gross income is gross income less  deductions  from a business or rental activity and 21 other specific items .
अनेक  deductions ( e.g . medical expenses and miscellaneous itemized deductions ) are limited based on a percentage of AGI .
Certain phase outs , including those of lower tax rates and itemized deductions , are based  on  levels of AGI .
Many states base state income tax on AGI with  निश्चित deductions  .
`` Lazy Eye '' is the third single from Silversun  pickups  ' debut album Carnavas .
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David Letterman  , The Tonight Show  with Jay Leno , Later With Jools Holland , and Last Call with Carson Daly .
The song  is  a playable track on Rock Band 2 and Guitar Hero : World Tour .
An alternate version  of the सोंग , साथ a लंबाई of 7:27 , थी निभाई on xmu पहले the shorter संस्करण थी निभाई on fm और अन्य xm चैनल्स .
This version was featured  on their  demo CD ( which featured early versions of four tracks ) .
A telephone prefix is  the पहला नियत of अंक of a टेलीफोन क्रमांक ; in the उत्तर अमरीकी क्रमांकन योजना देशों ( देश कोड 1 ) , it is the पहला तीन अंक of a seven-digit फोन क्रमांक .
In  अन्य देशों दोनो the उपसर्ग और the क्रमांक may have अलग lengths .
It shows which  एक्सचेंज  the remaining numbers refer to .
A full telephone number is usually made up of country code ( required for international calls only ) , area code ( required  for  calls between telephone areas ) , prefix , and subscriber number .
Some places restrict certain prefixes to fax numbers or  कोशिका  phones only ; in other places such dedicated prefixes are not used .
As telephone technology advanced , the precise  significance of the उपसर्ग  became blurred in many places ; 485 in London , UK , was once the GULliver exchange , but now 44207485xxxx is just considered one of many number blocks served by the CLKEN Kentish Town exchange ; 4420770703xx is another .
Metformin ( BP , pronounced , ; originally sold as  glucophage  ) is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class .
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes , in  particular  , in overweight and obese people and those with normal kidney function .
Its use in gestational diabetes has been limited by  सुरक्षा  concerns .
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome , and has been investigated for  अन्य  diseases where insulin resistance may be an important factor .
Metformin works by suppressing glucose production by the   liver .
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug that has been conclusively shown to prevent the cardiovascular complications of   diabetes .
it helps reduce ldl कोलेस्ट्रॉल और triglyceride स्तर , और is नहीं संबद्ध साथ वज़न लाभ .
, metformin is एक of तभी दो मौखिक antidiabetics in the संसार स्वास्थ्य संगठन मॉडल सूची of अनिवार्य दवाइयाँ ( the अन्य होने glibenclamide  ) .
When  विहित appropriately , metformin  causes few adverse effects ( the most common is gastrointestinal upset ) and is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia .
Lactic acidosis ( a  buildup of  lactate in the blood ) can be a serious concern in overdose and when it is prescribed to people with contraindications , but otherwise , there is no significant risk .
First synthesized and found to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s , metformin was forgotten for the next two decades as research shifted to insulin  and other  antidiabetic drugs .
Interest in metformin was rekindled in the late 1940s after several reports that it could  reduce रक्त शुगर स्तर in लोगों , और in 1957  , French physician Jean Sterne published the first clinical trial of metformin as a treatment for diabetes .
It  थी introduced to the संयुक्त किंगडम in 1958 , कनाडा in 1972 , और the संयुक्त राज्य in 1995 .
metformin  is now believed to be the most widely prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United States alone , more than 48 million prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its generic formulations .
The Mount  rushmore  National Memorial is a sculpture carved into the granite face of Mount Rushmore near Keystone , South Dakota , in the United States .
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son , Lincoln Borglum , Mount Rushmore features sculptures of the heads of four United States presidents : George Washington , Thomas  जेफरसन  , Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln .
the संपूर्ण  memorial covers and is above sea level .
The tallest mountain in  the प्रदेश is  Harney Peak ( ) .
South Dakota historian Doane Robinson is credited with conceiving the idea of carving the likenesses  of प्रसिद्ध लोगों into  the Black Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the region .
Robinson 's initial idea was  to sculpt  the Needles ; however , Gutzon Borglum rejected the Needles site because of the poor quality of the granite and strong opposition from environmentalists and Native American groups .
वे settled on  the Mount Rushmore location , which also has the advantage of facing southeast for maximum sun exposure .
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark , Red Cloud and Buffalo Bill  कोड़ी लकिन  Borglum decided the sculpture should have a more national focus , and chose the four presidents whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain .
After securing federal funding , construction on the memorial   began in 1927 , and the presidents ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939 .
Upon Gutzon Borglum 's death in March 1941  , उसके बेटे  Lincoln Borglum took over construction .
Although the initial concept called for each president to be depicted from head to waist  ,  lack of funding forced construction to end in late October 1941 .
The U.S. National  पार्क सेवा took कंट्रोल  of the memorial in 1933 , while it was still under construction , and has managed the memorial to the present day .
It attracts  nearly  three million people annually .
Charvet dress  कमीज़ इससे  the 1930s , Norsk Folkemuseum , Oslo .
A shirt , dress shirt , button-front , button-front shirt , or  button-up कमीज़ is a  garment with a collar , a full-length opening at the front from the collar to the hem , and sleeves with cuffs .
Shirts are  predominantly प्रयुक्त by  men , since women usually wear blouses .
The  सामने  opening is fastened using buttons or studs , and the cuffs close with buttons or cuff links .
Shirts are normally made from woven cloth , and are often accompanied by a jacket and tie , for example with a suit or  formalwear , लकिन शर्ट हैं भी  worn more casually .
In British English , dress shirt means  specifically the अधिक  formal evening garment worn with black- or white- tie , also discussed below .
Some   of these formal shirts have stiff fronts and detachable collars attached with collar studs .
The term `` button-down '' ( which  refers a type of shirt  which has a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in error to apply to all shirts ( with or without buttoned down collars ) , being used as a synonym for `` button-up '' or `` button-front '' .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin  दिन )  is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries , administrative assistants , receptionists , and other administrative support professionals .
In North America , it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last  पूरा सप्ताह  of April ( April 24 in 2013 ) .
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday  in  April ( April 18 in 2013 ) .
In  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  it is celebrated on the first Friday in May
Blasting   can be:
अक्खड़  blasting
Blast  भट्टी
चट्टान  blasting
Nicolas Poussin ( ; 15 June 1594 – 19 November 1665 ) was the leading painter of the classical French Baroque style , although he spent most of  उसके working  life in Rome .
His work is characterized by  स्पष्टता  , logic , and order , and favors line over color .
Until the 20th century he remained a major inspiration for such classically oriented artists as Jacques-Louis   David , Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres and Paul Cézanne .
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and elsewhere , except for a short period when Cardinal Richelieu ordered him back to  फ़्रांस to serve as पहला चित्रकार to the किंग  .
Most of his works are  इतिहास  paintings of religious or mythological subjects that very often have a large landscape element .
Jackie Keith Whitley  ( July 1 , 1954Stambler , Irwin , and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ) . - Country Music : The  Encyclopedia . - New York : St. Martin 's Press . - p.533 . - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin , Richard ( 2003 ) . - Country Music : A Biographical Dictionary . - New York : Routledge - p.427 . - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin , Colin ( 1995 ) . - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music . - New York : Stockton Press - P.4462 . - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton , Scott ( 2003 ) . - The Tombstone Tourist : Musicians . - New York : Pocket Books . - p.395 . - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—Hicks , Jack . - `` Singer Keith Whitley 's Memory Alive Through Songs , Love in Home Town '' . - The Kentucky Post . - September 25 , 1991.— '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley Dead at 33 '' . - Lexington Herald-Leader . - May 10 , 1989.——Hurst , Jack . - `` Whitley 's Last Days '' . - Chicago Tribune . - May 14 , 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley '' . - United Press International . - ( c/o The San Francisco Chronicle ) . - May 10 , 1989 . — May 9 , 1989 ) , known professionally as Keith Whitley , was an American country music singer .
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream country music lasted from 1984 until his death in 1989 , but he   continues to influence an entire generation of singers and songwriters .
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts ,  सहित पाँच लगातार  Number Ones : `` Do n't Close Your Eyes `` , `` When You Say Nothing at All `` , `` I 'm No Stranger to the Rain `` , `` I Wonder Do You Think of Me `` and `` It Ai n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ) .
Statute of Grand Duchy of  लिथुआनिया ,  written in Polish
A  statute  is a formal written enactment of a legislative authority that governs a state , city , or county .
Typically , statutes command or  prohibit कुछ  , or declare policy .
The word is often used to distinguish  विधि बना  by legislative bodies from case law , decided by courts , and regulations issued by government agencies .
Statutes are sometimes referred  to  as legislation or `` black letter law . ''
As   a source of law , statutes are considered primary authority ( as opposed to secondary authority ) .
Ideally all statutes must be in  सामंजस्य  with the fundamental law of the land ( constitutional ) .
This word is  प्रयुक्त  in contradistinction to the common law .
Statutes acquire their force from the time of  उनके  passage , however unless otherwise provided .
Statutes are of several kinds ;  namely  , Public or private .
declaratory  or remedial .
Temporary  or perpetual  .
A temporary statute   is one which is limited in its duration at the time of its enactment .
It continues in force until the  time  of its limitation has expired , unless sooner repealed .
A  perpetual statute  is one for the continuance of which there is no limited time , although it may not be expressly declared to be so .
If , however , a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is to be  governed by another  which is temporary only , the former will also be temporary and dependent upon the existence of the latter .
Before a statute becomes law in some countries , it must be agreed upon by the highest executive in the government , and finally   published as part of a code .
In many countries , statutes are organized in topical arrangements ( or `` codified '' ) within   publications called codes , such as the United States Code .
In many nations statutory law is distinguished from and subordinate to  संवैधानिक  law .
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries which bifurcate off the common iliac arteries anterior to the sacroiliac joint of the   pelvis .
They proceed anterior and inferior along the medial border of the psoas  प्रमुख मांसपेशियां  .
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and inferior to the inguinal ligament about one third laterally from the insertion point of the inguinal ligament on the  जननांग  tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries .
The external iliac artery is usually the artery used to attach the renal artery to the recipient of a kidney   transplant .
Steam is a   digital distribution , digital rights management , multiplayer and communications platform developed by Valve Corporation .
It is used to distribute games and related media online , from small independent developers to larger software houses ; in October 2012 , Valve  विस्तारित the सेवा  to include non-gaming software .
Steam provides the user with installation and automatic management of software across multiple computers , community features  such  as friends lists and groups , cloud saving , and in-game voice and chat functionality .
The software provides a freely available application programming interface , Steamworks , that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of Steam 's functions within their software products , including copy protection , networking and matchmaking , in-game achievements and micro-transactions ,  और  support for user-created content through Steam Workshop .
Though initially developed for use on Microsoft Windows , the client has expanded  to include OS X and  Linux versions , and clients with limited functionality on the PlayStation 3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices .
In addition to being a central hub for gaming software , Valve has created a version of Steam with altered functionality to be used in schools for educational software , including a modified  संस्करण  of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons .
, there are nearly 2000 games available through  भाप  , and 54 million active user accounts .
As of January 2013 , Steam has seen over 6.6 million  संयुक्त  players .
Steam has  an  estimated 50–70 % share of the digital distribution market for video games .
The Steam logo is a  stylised  left-side fly-crank and rod from the Walschaerts valve gear of a steam locomotive .
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16 , 1926 ) is an American comedian , actor ,  सिंगर , फिल्मी  producer , screenwriter and film director .
He is known for his slapstick humor in film , television , stage and  रेडियो  .
he  was originally paired up with Dean Martin in 1946 , forming the famed comedy team of Martin and Lewis .
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub work  ,  they starred in a successful series of comedy films for Paramount Pictures .
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and position as national chairman for the Muscular  Dystrophy Association (  MDA ) .
Lewis has won several awards for lifetime achievements from The American Comedy Awards , Los Angeles Film Critics Association , and Venice Film Festival , and he has two stars on  the  Hollywood Walk of Fame .
In 2005 , he received the Governors Award of the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences Board of Governors , which is the  highest Emmy  Award presented .
On February 22 , 2009 , the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences awarded Lewis the Jean Hersholt  humanitarian  Award .
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern  Swiss Alps  through Germany and eventually flows into the North Sea coast in the Netherlands and is the twelfth longest river in Europe , at about , with an average discharge of more than .
The Rhine and the Danube formed most of the northern inland frontier of the Roman Empire and , since  those दिनों , the राइन रै  been a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland .
It has also served as a defensive feature and has been the basis for   regional and international borders .
The many castles and prehistoric fortifications along the Rhine  गवाही to इसके महत्व  as a waterway .
River  ट्रैफ़िक could be रोका  at these locations , usually for the purpose of collecting tolls , by the state that controlled that portion of the river .
Sri (  सिंहली  )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री , IAST ; Śrī ) , also transliterated as Sree or Shri or Shree is a word of Sanskrit  उत्पत्ति , प्रयुक्त  in the Indian subcontinent as polite form of address equivalent to the English `` Mr. '' in written and spoken language , or as a title of veneration for deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ) .
Design of complex structures like  the  International Space Station needs in-depth understanding of Structural Analysis .
Civil engineering is a  पेशेवर अभियान्त्रिकी  discipline that deals with the design , construction , and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment , including works like roads , bridges , canals , dams , and buildings .
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after military engineering , and it was defined to distinguish non-military engineering  इससे सैन्य अभियान्त्रिकी  .
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including environmental engineering , geotechnical engineering ,  भूभौतिकी , भूगणित , कंट्रोल अभियान्त्रिकी  , structural engineering , biomechanics , nanotechnology , transportation engineering , earth science , atmospheric sciences , forensic engineering , municipal or urban engineering , water resources engineering , materials engineering , coastal engineering , surveying , and construction engineering .
Civil engineering takes place on all levels : in the public sector from  नगरपालिका  through to national governments , and in the private sector from individual homeowners through to international companies .
Katherine Dunham in  तीव्र revue
Katherine  dunham  in Studio
कैथरीन dunham  in Tropical Review Tropical Review , Martin Beck Theatre
Katherine Dunham wearing  नृत्य  costume
कैथरीन dunham in cumbia
Katherine Dunham ( June 22 , 1909 – May 21 , 2006 ) was an American dancer , choreographer , author , educator , and  सोशल activist  .
Dunham had one of the most successful dance careers in American and European theater of the 20th century , and  निर्देशित  her own dance company for many years .
She has been called   the `` matriarch and queen mother of black dance '' .
During her heyday  in the  1940s and 1950s , Dunham was renowned throughout Europe and Latin America and was widely popular in the United States , where the Washington Post called her `` dancer Katherine the Great '' .
For almost thirty years she maintained the Katherine Dunham Dance Company  , the  only self-supported American black dance troupe at that time , and over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances .
Dunham was an innovator in African-American modern dance  as खूब  as a leader in the field of dance anthropology , or ethnochoreology .
sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 और 3500 प्रजाति of mosses , commonly पुकारा peat मॉस due to इसके व्यापकता in गीला habitats जहाँ it contributes to the गठन of peat bogs  and mires .
Sphagnum accumulations can store water , since both living and  मुर्दे पौधे can थाम विशाल  quantities of water inside their cells ; plants may hold from 16-26 times as much water as their dry weight depending on the species .
The empty cells help retain  जल in  drier conditions .
Hence  , as sphagnum मॉस grows , it can धीरे स्प्रेड into drier शर्तें , forming larger peatlands , दोनो उठाया bogs और कंबल bogs .
These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of peatland plants , including sedges and ericaceous shrubs , as well as orchids and carnivorous   plants .
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not  क्षय readily  because of the phenolic compounds embedded in the moss 's cell walls .
In addition , bogs , like all wetlands ,  develop  anaerobic soil conditions , which produces slower anaerobic decay rather than aerobic microbial action .
Peat moss can also acidify its surroundings  by लेने up cations , ऐसे  as calcium and magnesium , and releasing hydrogen ions .
Under the right conditions ,  peat  can accumulate to a depth of many meters .
Different species of Sphagnum have different tolerance  limits  for flooding and pH , so any one peatland may have a number of different Sphagnum species .
व्यक्तिगत peat मॉस पौधे consist of a प्रमुख स्टेम , साथ tightly arranged क्लस्टर of शाखा fascicles प्रायः consisting of दो or तीन spreading शाखाओं और दो to चार फांसी शाखाओं .
The top of the plant , or  capitulum , रै  compact clusters of young branches .
Along the stem are scattered leaves of  various  shapes , named stem leaves ; the shape varies according to species .
The leaves consist of  two kinds of cells  ; small , green , living cells ( chlorophyllose cells ) , and large , clear , structural , dead cells ( hyaline cells ) .
The latter have the large  water-holding  capacity .
The earliest version of the Network  कार्ड ,  issued manually rather than through an APTIS machine .
The  पहला  APTIS version of the Network Card .
This was used from the start of  the aptis era in  1986/1987 until well into the 1990s , as stocks had to be used up despite the introduction of the new-look orange-banded version in 1991 .
The introduction of the weekday minimum fare condition in 2002 resulted in a minor change : the  red ``  R '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard .
इस  version is still in use as of 2007 .
The Network Railcard is a discount card introduced in 1986 by British Rail , upon the creation of their Network  southeast  area around London , England .
The card is intended  to प्रोत्साहित अवकाश सफर  by rail by offering discounts for adults and accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares .
The range of discounts available , and the price of the card , have varied since that time , but the  कार्ड रै सदा महरूम मान्य लिये  a year 's unlimited use .
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or Rail Appointed Travel Agent , by completing an application form - no photographic identification or  other documentation  is needed to buy or use the card .
It is one of a number of concessionary fare  योजनाएं उपलब्धियाँ  on the British railway system .
The  United  Nations ( UN ; French : Organisation des Nations Unies , ONU ) is the world 's largest , foremost , and most prominent international organization .
The stated aims of the United Nations include promoting and facilitating cooperation in international law , international security , economic development , social progress , human  rights , civil  rights , civil liberties , political freedoms , democracy , and the achievement of lasting world peace .
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to  बदलें  the League of Nations , to stop wars between countries , and to provide a platform for dialogue .
It   contains multiple subsidiary organizations to carry out its missions .
At its founding , the UN had 51   member states ; as of 2011 , there are 193 .
From  इसके कार्यालयों around  the world , the UN and its specialized agencies decide on substantive and administrative issues in regular meetings held throughout the year .
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting in promoting international economic and social cooperation and development ) ; the Secretariat ( for providing studies , information , and facilities needed by the UN ) ; the International Court of Justice ( the primary judicial organ ) ; and the United Nations Trusteeship Council ( which is  currently  inactive ) .
Other prominent UN System agencies  शामिल the संसार  Health Organization ( WHO ) , the World Food Programme ( WFP ) and United Nations Children 's Fund ( UNICEF ) .
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the office of Secretary-General which has been held  by Ban  Ki-moon of South Korea since 2007 .
The United Nations Headquarters resides in international territory in New York City , with further main  offices at  Geneva , Nairobi , and Vienna .
The organization is financed from assessed and voluntary contributions from its member states , and has six official languages : Arabic , Chinese , English , French ,  रूसी , और स्पेनी  .
South Beach , also nicknamed SoBe , is a neighborhood in the city of Miami Beach , Florida , United States , located due east of Miami city  proper  between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean .
The area encompasses all  of the अवरोध आइलैंड्स  of Miami Beach south of Indian Creek .
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed , starting in the  1910s , thanks to the development  efforts of Carl G. Fisher , the Lummus Brothers , and John S. Collins , the latter whose construction of the Collins Bridge provided the first vital land link between mainland Miami and the beaches .
The area has gone  through numerous कृत्रिम और प्राकृतिक परिवर्तन over the सालो , सहित a booming क्षेत्रीय अर्थव्यवस्था , increased पर्यटन , और the 1926 hurricane , जिससे नष्ट much of the क्षेत्रफल .
As of 2010 , about 39,186  निवासियों सजीव  in South Beach .
The United States presidential  चुनाव  of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard Nixon , while the Democratic Party  मनोनीत जॉन F. कैनेडी  , Senator from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President  ,  Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower , was not eligible for re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy was elected with a lead  of 112,827  votes , or 0.17 % of the popular vote , giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College , the closest since 1916 .
This was the first  चुनाव in जिससे  all fifty of the current United States participated .
A number of factors explain why the election  थी so बंद  .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent Republican , and he had the advantage of 17 million more registered Democrats than  republicans  .
Furthermore , the new votes that Kennedy gained among   Catholics almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively  outmatched निक्सन 's  .
In the end , Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight , and he wasted energy by campaigning in all 50 states  instead  of concentrating on the swing states .
Kennedy used his large ,  well-funded  campaign organization to win the nomination , secure endorsements , and , with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson to hold the South and used television   effectively .
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S . Senators ( Kennedy  और जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित  as president and vice-president , a phenomenon that has been repeated once , by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
A poster for a c. 1884 American   production of Macbeth , starring Thomas W. Keene .
चित्रित  , counter clockwise from top-left , are : Macbeth and Banquo meet the witches ; just after the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth .
Macbeth is a play written by  विलियम  Shakespeare .
It is  माना  one of his darkest and most powerful tragedies .
Set in Scotland , the play dramatizes the corroding psychological and political effects produced when its protagonist , the Scottish lord Macbeth , chooses evil as  the way  to fulfill his ambition for power .
He commits regicide to become king and then furthers his moral descent  साथ  a reign of murderous terror to stay in power , eventually plunging the country into civil war .
In the end , he loses everything that gives meaning and purpose to his life before losing   his life itself .
The play is believed to have been written between 1603 and 1607 , and is most commonly  दिनाँक 1606  .
The earliest account of a performance of what was probably Shakespeare 's play is April 1611 , when Simon Forman recorded seeing such  a play at the  Globe Theatre .
It was first published in  the  Folio of 1623 , possibly from a prompt book .
it थी सबसे संभावित लिखा दौरान the शासनकाल of जेम्स i , जो था महरूम जेम्स vi of स्कॉटलैंड पहले he succeeded to the अंग्रेज़ी सिंहासन in 1603  .
James was a patron  of shakespeare’s  acting company , and of all the plays Shakespeare wrote during James’s reign , Macbeth most clearly reflects the playwright’s relationship with the sovereign .
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy , and tells the story of a brave Scottish  सामान्य  named Macbeth who receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that one day he will become King of Scotland .
Consumed by ambition  और  spurred to action by his wife , Macbeth murders King Duncan and takes the throne for himself .
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia , and he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to  कमिट अधिक  and more murders to protect himself from enmity and suspicion .
The bloodbath swiftly takes  मैकबेथ  and Lady Macbeth into realms of arrogance , madness , and death .
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of Scotland , Macduff , and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 ) , a history of England , Scotland and Ireland familiar to Shakespeare and his   contemporaries , although the events in the play differ extensively from the history of the real Macbeth .
In the backstage world of theatre , some believe that the   play is cursed , and will not mention its title aloud , referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play `` .
Over the course of many centuries , the play has attracted some of the  सबसे प्रसिद्ध  actors to the roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth .
It has been adapted to film , television , opera , novels ,  कॉमिक  books , and other media .
The Milton Hershey School is a private philanthropic ( pre-K  through  12 ) boarding school in Hershey , Pennsylvania .
originally नामित the hershey औद्योगिक स्कूल , the संस्था थी संस्थापित और वित्तपोषित by चॉकलेट उद्योगपति मिल्टन snavely hershey और उसके बीवी , कैथरीन स्वीनी  Hershey .
The school was originally established for impoverished , healthy ,  caucasian , पुरूष  orphans , while today it serves students of various backgrounds .
The  Milton Hershey School Trust , which funds the school , owns  controlling interest in The Hershey Company and owns the Hershey Entertainment and Resorts Company ( HERCO ) which oversees many of the area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark .
साथ over छह अरब डॉलर in एसेट , the मिल्टन hershey स्कूल is एक of the wealthiest स्कूलों in the संसार .
The school   is overseen by a Board of Managers .
The school currently serves 1,818 students , and plans to  grow to 2,100 विद्यार्थी  by 2013 .
A member of CORE : Coalition for Residential   Education , it is the largest residential education program in the US .
Epub  may  refer to:
EPUB , a  फ़्री  and open e-book standard
Electronic article , articles in  scholarly जर्नल्स  or magazines that can be accessed via electronic transmission
The  नियंत्रित substances  Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is  regulated  .
The  Act  also served as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created five  schedules (  classifications ) , with varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and  the Food and Drug Administration , determine which  substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000 , which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
Second-language   acquisition or second-language learning is the process by which people learn a second language .
Second-language acquisition ( often abbreviated to  sla ) भी refers  to the scientific discipline devoted to studying that process .
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a person 's first language ; although the concept is named second-language acquisition , it can also incorporate the learning of third , fourth   , or subsequent languages .
Second-language acquisition  refers to कया learners  do ; it does not refer to practices in language teaching .
The academic discipline of second-language acquisition  is a subdiscipline  of applied linguistics .
It is broad-based and  अपेक्षाकृत  new .
As well as the  विभिन्न शाखाओं of  linguistics , second-language acquisition is also closely related to psychology , cognitive psychology , and education .
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself , the terms second-language acquisition research  ,  second-language studies , and second-language acquisition studies are also used .
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary field  , और क्युकी  of this it is difficult to identify a precise starting date .
However , it does appear to  have विकसित  a great deal since the mid-1960s .
The term acquisition was  originally  used to emphasize the subconscious nature of the learning process , but in recent years learning and acquisition have become largely synonymous .
second-language अधिग्रहण can चरितार्थ विरासत भाषा सीखना , लकिन it करता नहीं प्रायः चरितार्थ bilingualism .
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as  होने the समाप्त परिणाम  of learning a language , not the process itself , and see the term as referring to native-like fluency .
Writers in   fields such as education and psychology , however , often use bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism .
Second-language acquisition is also not to be contrasted with the acquisition of a foreign language ; rather , the learning of second languages and the learning of foreign languages involve the same  आधारभूत  processes in different situations..
There has been much debate about exactly how  भाषा  is learned , and many issues are still unresolved .
There are many theories of second-language acquisition , but  none  are accepted as a complete explanation by all SLA researchers .
Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the field of second-language acquisition , this is not  अपेक्षित  to happen in the foreseeable future .
Forbes list of billionaires is an  सालाना रैंकिंग  of the world 's wealthiest people , compiled and published by Forbes , an American national business magazine .
The total net worth of each individual on the  सूची is  estimated , in United States dollars , based on their assets and accounting for debt .
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a single day ,  due to रोज़ fluctuations  among exchange rates and stock valuations .
The United States Secret Service is a U.S. federal law enforcement agency that is part of the United States Department of  मातृभूमि  Security .
The sworn members are divided among the  खास एजेंटों  and the Uniformed Division .
Until March  1 , 2003 , the  Service was part of the United States Department of the Treasury .
the u.S. रहस्य सेवा रै दो पृथक क्षेत्रों of responsibility:
Financial Crimes , covering missions such as prevention and investigation of counterfeiting of U.S. currency and U.S. treasury   securities , and investigation of major fraud .
Protection , which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders and their families , such as the President , past presidents , vice presidents  , presidential candidates ,  visiting heads of state , and foreign embassies ( per an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ) , etc . )
The Secret Service 's initial responsibility was to investigate counterfeiting  of u.S. करेंसी ,  which was rampant following the U.S. Civil War .
The agency then evolved into the United States ' first domestic intelligence and  counterintelligence  agency .
Many  of the agency 's missions were later  taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) , Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco , Firearms and Explosives ( ATF ) , Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) , and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) .
`` me  and Bobby McGee '' is a song written by Kris Kristofferson and Fred Foster , originally performed by Roger Miller .
Others performed the song later , including Kristofferson himself , and Janis Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after her death , making the song the second posthumous number-one single  in U.S. chart history after `` (  Sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding .
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his initials , FDR , was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century , leading the  संयुक्त  States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and  the तभी  American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as his campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of  the  Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over polio , FDR 's unfailing optimism and activism contributed to  a renewal of  the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies  विरूद्ध  Germany and Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government  jobs for the  unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly   from 1933 to 1937 , but then relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his   packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II .
Most of the  regulations  on business were ended about 1975–85 , except for the regulation of Wall Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance   Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese  आक्रमण  of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would supply  munitions  to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided Lend-Lease aid to the  countries  fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7 ,  1941 , कॉलिंग it a ``  date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy  to support  the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of  the अक्ष शक्तियां  and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American  नागरिकों  .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief  कार्यक्रम largely ended  , and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American  political scene not only  during the twelve years of his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He  orchestrated the realignment of मतदाता कि निर्मित the पांचवां पार्टी प्रणाली .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition  संयुक्त मजदूर संघ  , big city machines , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also influenced the later creation of the United  राष्ट्र  and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top  three U.S.  Presidents , along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A  उदार डेमोक्रेट  , Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a little left of center . ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS , Mara , and MS-13 ) is a transnational criminal gang that originated in Los Angeles and has spread to other parts of the United States  ,  Canada , Mexico , and Central America .
the बहुमत of the गिरोह is ethnically रचित of सेंट्रल अमेरिकी और क्रियाशील in शहरी और suburban क्षेत्रों  .
In the U.S. , the MS-13 has an especially heavy presence in Los Angeles County and the San Francisco Bay Area in Northern California ; the Washington , D.C. metropolitan areas of Fairfax County , Virginia  , मोंटगोमरी  County , Maryland , and Prince George 's County , Maryland ; Long Island , New York ; the Boston , Massachusetts area ; Charlotte , North Carolina ; and Houston , Texas .
There is also a presence of MS-13 in Toronto  ,  Ontario , Canada .
Members of MS distinguish themselves by tattoos covering the body and also often the face , as well  as the  use of their own sign language .
They are notorious for  their use of  violence and a subcultural moral code that predominantly consists of merciless revenge and cruel retributions .
This cruelty of the distinguished members of the `` Maras '' or `` Mareros '' earned them a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war  दक्षिण of the संयुक्त राज्य किनारा  .
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and Immigration and Customs Enforcement , who have initiated wide-scale raids against known   and suspected gang members – netting hundreds of arrests across the country .
Bones  is an अमरीकी अपराधों comedy-drama टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on the फॉक्स संजाल in the संयुक्त राज्य on सितंबर 13 , 2005 .
The show is based on forensic anthropology and forensic archaeology , with each episode focusing on an FBI case file concerning the mystery behind human remains brought by FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth ( David  boreanaz ) to the forensic anthropologist  Dr. Temperance `` Bones '' Brennan ( Emily Deschanel ) .
The rest of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin , T. J. Thyne , Eric Millegan , Tamara Taylor , Jonathan  Adams , and  John Francis Daley .
Created by Hart Hanson , the series is very loosely based on the life and   writings of novelist and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs , who also produces the show .
Its title character , Temperance  ब्रेनन  , is named after the protagonist of Reichs ' crime novel series .
Conversely , Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels based around a fictional ( in the Bones universe ) forensic  anthropologist  named Kathy Reichs .
Bones is a joint production by Josephson Entertainment , Far Field Productions and 20th  Century  Fox Television .
The series has  समाप्त  airing its eighth season and has been renewed for a ninth season .
Super Bowl XXV was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Buffalo Bills and the National  फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc  ) champion New York Giants to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season .
The Giants defeated the Bills by the score of 20–19 , winning their second ever   Super Bowl .
It is the only Super Bowl decided  by  one point .
The game was  आयोजित at  Tampa Stadium in Tampa , Florida , on January 27 , 1991 , during the height of the Gulf War .
It was   thus played under much patriotic fervor .
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` by Whitney Houston during  the  pregame ceremonies .
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making their first Super Bowl appearance after  finishing the नियमित ऋतु साथ a 13-3  record , and leading the league in total points scored with 428 .
in advancing to उनके दूसरी सुपर कटोरी , the दिग्गज भी posted a 13-3 नियमित ऋतु रिकार्ड , लकिन साथ a ball-control ठोकर और a रक्षा कि अनुमत a लीग कम 211  points .
The game  is best  remembered for Bills placekicker Scott Norwood 's last-second field goal attempt which went wide right of the uprights , leading to a Giants victory , and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills .
The Giants set a Super Bowl record holding possession of the ball  for  40 minutes and 33 seconds .
New York also overcame a 12-3 second-quarter deficit , and made a 75-yard touchdown drive that consumed a  सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड 9:29 बंद  the clock .
Giants running back Ottis Anderson , who carried the ball 21  टाइम्स लिये 102  yards and one touchdown , was named Super Bowl MVP .
He was the first awardee to receive the newly named `` Pete Rozelle Trophy '' ( named for the former  कमिश्नर  ) .
Anderson also  अंकित  one reception for seven yards .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik  El-Shabazz ( )  , was an African-American Muslim minister and human rights activist .
To his admirers , he was a courageous advocate for the rights of blacks , a man who indicted white America in the  harshest शर्तें लिये इसके अपराधों विरूद्ध  black Americans .
detractors अभियुक्त  him of preaching racism , black supremacy , and violence .
He has been called one of   the greatest and most influential African Americans in history .
Malcolm X 's father died—killed  by white  supremacists , it was rumored—when he was young , and at least one of his uncles was lynched .
जब  he was 13 , his mother was placed in a mental hospital , and he was placed in a series of foster homes .
In 1946 , at age 20 , he  गई  to prison for breaking and entering .
in थाना , मैल्कम x became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश of islam ; बाद उसके पैरोल in 1952 , he जल्दी रोज़ to become एक of इसके नेताओ  .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of  the विवादास्पद  group , but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964 .
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East , he returned to the United States , where he founded Muslim Mosque , Inc.  and the  Organization of Afro-American Unity .
In February 1965 , less than a year after leaving the  स्वदेश  of Islam , he was assassinated by three members of the group .
Malcolm X 's expressed beliefs changed  substantially  over time .
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught   black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
After breaking  साथ the स्वदेश  of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it , `` I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now .
I was a zombie then ... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim , he disavowed racism and expressed  willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ , he जारी  to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
The third season of 90210 , an American television series , premiered  on  Monday September 13 , 2010 .
The CW officially renewed the show for a third season on  फ़रवरी  16 , 2010 .
With the reveal of the  संजाल पतन  2010 schedule , they announced their decision to move 90210 to Monday nights at 8:00 pm , as a lead-in to Gossip Girl .
It premiered on September 13 , 2010 and was met with generally positive reviews from  आलोचकों  .
The season picks up at the end of summer and focuses on the students senior year of  ऊँची स्कूल  .
It follows Adrianna 's rise to fame , a new relationship between Silver and Navid and a  उलझन टेडी जो decides  to reveal to his family and friends he is gay .
It also deals  साथ the aftermath  of Naomi Clark 's assault .
Regular cast members for the season included   Shenae Grimes , Tristan Wilds , AnnaLynne McCord , Ryan Eggold , Jessica Stroup , Michael Steger , Jessica Lowndes , Matt Lanter , Gillian Zinser , Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin .
Rebecca Sinclair continued   her role as executive producer for the season .
The  ऋतु premiered  to 1.96 million viewers and a 0.9 rating in the adults 18–49 demographic .
Christmas-themed episode `` Holiday Madness '' , hit  ऋतु highs  in all key demos with 2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34 , a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49 .
It was also the most watched episode in over a year   with 2.2 million viewers tuning in .
The season finale aired on May  16  , 2011 .
The season averaged 1.75 million live viewers  and  a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating .
It was released on DVD in the United   States on August 30 , 2011 .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born  21 April 1926 ) is the  constitutional monarch of 16 sovereign states , known as the Commonwealth realms , and their territories and dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of  इंग्लैण्ड और , in कुछ  of her realms , carries the title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 ,  एलिज़ाबेथ  became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992 , the number of her realms varied as territories gained independence and  some  realms became republics .
At present , in  जोड to the पहला चार  aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados , the Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign of years  is  currently the second longest for a British monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth was born in London and educated  privately  at home .
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI  in 1936 on the  abdication of his brother Edward VIII , from which time she was the heir presumptive .
She began to undertake public duties  दौरान  the Second World War , in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947 , she married   Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , with whom she has four children : Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
Her coronation service took place in 1953 and was  the  first to be televised .
The Queen 's many historic visits and meetings include a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and  reciprocal विज़िट  to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms , such as devolution in the  संयुक्त किंगडम और  the patriation of the Canadian constitution .
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children , the births of her grandchildren , the investiture of the Prince of   Wales , and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver , Golden , and Diamond Jubilees in 1977 , 2002 , and 2012 , respectively .
Major events in  the  Queen 's reign have included the Troubles in Northern Ireland , the Falklands War , wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan .
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56 , the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle , Lord Mountbatten  , the breakdown of  her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ) , the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments , but support for the  साम्राज्य  and her personal popularity remain high .
The 2010 United States Senate  election in  Florida took place on November 2 , 2010 along with other elections to the United States Senate in other states as well as all elections to the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections .
Republican Marco Rubio , former Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives , defeated independent Charlie Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek  in a three-way  race .
One term Senator Mel Martinez was elected in a  बहुत  close race against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote .
Martinez announced on December 2 , 2008 that he would  नहीं  seek re-election to the Senate , and would resign prior to the end of his term .
In August  2009 ,  Governor Charlie Crist announced that he would appoint his former Chief of Staff , George LeMieux , a Republican , to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez .
Governor Crist publicly announced he was  कार्यशील  for the seat in mid-2009 .
At the time he received many Republican endorsements , such as the National Republican Senatorial Committee , Martinez , and the 2008  रिपब्लिकन  presidential nominee John McCain .
His  support of the अमरीकी  Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives , and candidate Marco Rubio surged .
In April 2010 Crist announced he would drop out of the Republican primary and run as an  स्वतंत्र .
The National Republican Senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement  of crist और मांगे  a refund of its campaign funds that it provided for the Crist campaign .
Congressman Kendrick  नम्र  was the first Democrat to declare his intention to run .
Alexander Snitker was the first member of the Libertarian Party on the  बैलट लिये  senator in Florida 's history .
उपग्रह  view of Doha
Doha ( , ' or ' , literally : `` the  big  tree '' ) is the capital city of the state of Qatar .
Located on  the coast  of the Persian Gulf ,
it  था a जनसांख्यिकी of 998,651 in 2008 , और is भी एक of the municipalities of क़तर .
Doha is Qatar 's largest city , with over 60 % of the nation 's  जनसांख्यिकी  residing in Doha or its surrounding suburbs , and is also the economic centre of the country .
Doha also  serves as the  seat of government of Qatar , which is ruled by Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani .
Doha is home to the Education City  ,  an area devoted to research and education .
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level meeting of the Doha Development Round of World  व्यापार संगठन negotiations  .
The city of Doha held  the 2006  Asian Games , which was the largest Asian Games ever held .
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and most of  the  games at the 2011 AFC Asian Cup .
Doha hosted the UNFCCC Climate Negotiations ( COP 18 ) December 2012  and will  host a large number of the venues for the 2022 FIFA World Cup .
The World  पेट्रोलियम परिषद  held the 20th World Petroleum Conference in Doha in December 2011 .
Paranasal sinuses   are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity ( maxillary sinuses ) , above the eyes ( frontal sinuses ) , between the eyes ( ethmoid sinuses ) , and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ) .
The sinuses are named for the   facial bones in which they are located .
Lean manufacturing , lean enterprise , or lean production , often simply , `` Lean , '' is a production practice that considers  the व्यय of संसाधन लिये कोई लक्ष्य  other than the creation of value for the end customer to be wasteful , and thus a target for elimination .
Working from the perspective of the customer who consumes a product or service , `` value  '' is  defined as any action or process that a customer would be willing to pay for .
Essentially , lean is centered on  preserving मान  with less work .
Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System ( TPS ) ( hence the term Toyotism   is also prevalent ) and identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s .
TPS is renowned for its focus on reduction of the original Toyota seven wastes to improve overall customer value  , लकिन वहीँ हैं varying perspectives  on how this is best achieved .
the स्थिर  growth of Toyota , from a small company to the world 's largest automaker , has focused attention on how it has achieved this success .
iCarly  लोगो
iCarly is an American sitcom that airs on Nickelodeon , which premiered on  सितंबर 8 , 2007  .
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far such as `` iDo '' , `` iHire an Idiot '' , ``  iPity the  Nevel '' , `` iDate Sam & Freddie '' , etc . as specials , despite their being regular episodes .
Every episode  शीर्षक  begins with a lower case i which represents the internet , as in `` iCarly '' .
The show was  मनोनीत लिये an एमी पुरस्कार  for Outstanding Children 's Program in 2009 .
the श्रेणी अभिनीत मिरांडा cosgrove as कार्ली शे , a 13-year-old जो becomes an अंतरजाल स्टार .
The series ended on November 23 , 2012 with the one-hour special episode `` iGoodbye ''   .
A  कुल  of 7 seasons and 109 episodes were broadcast .
The largest audience of the series was 11.2 million viewers ,  साथ the खास  episode `` iSaved Your Life '' premiered in January 2010 .
When Carly ( Miranda Cosgrove ) and her sassy best friend Sam ( Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at a school talent show audition , tech-savvy Freddie ( Nathan Kress ) tapes it and posts it online without telling   them .
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and banter , the online   audience clamors for more and the iCarly webcast is born .
While grappling with typical issues of adolescence , Carly , Sam , and Freddie find out that they have also become online celebrities as their show – which features talent contests , recipes  ,  problem-solving , and random dancing – garners international accolades .
Carly lives in Seattle , Washington with her 26-year-old brother and  संरक्षक  Spencer ( Jerry Trainor ) and produces the show in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment .
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned , but their father , Steven Shay ( David Chisum ) , is a U.S. Air Force officer  temporarily stationed on  a submarine , and is often mentioned but is only seen in person during the series finale episode , `` iGoodbye '' .
Westlife were  an आयरिश  boy band which formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2012 .
Originally signed by Simon Cowell and managed by Louis Walsh , the group 's final line-up  consisted  of Nicky Byrne , Kian Egan , Mark Feehily and Shane Filan .
ब्रायन mcfadden थी a सदस्य इससे 1998 जबतक उसके प्रस्थान in 2004 .
Westlife sold over 50 million records worldwide , a total that included studio albums  ,  singles , video releases , and compilation albums .
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in UK history ) , tying with Cliff  Richard  and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley .
They achieved a total  of 26  top ten singles over their 14-year career .
By 2010 , Westlife was listed in the Guinness World   Records , as the UK 's top-selling album group of the 21st century .
They also won The Record of the Year ( the only music award based on public votes in the UK ) a  record-breaking  four times and in 2012 , the Official Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history .
Despite their European and Asian success , Westlife never managed to break into the U.S. market , achieving only one hit single  in 2000 : `` कसम it again  `` .
In  अक्तूबर  2011 , Westlife announced their intention to split in 2012 , following their Greatest Hits Tour and the release of their Greatest Hits album .
The boyband 's final concerts were  आयोजित on  22 and 23 June 2012 at Croke Park Stadium in Dublin .
The first farewell concert , offering 85,000 tickets , sold out in a record-breaking 5 minutes and the latter screened   live in cinemas worldwide .
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons , which include retinol , retinal , retinoic  acid and  several provitamin A carotenoids among which beta-carotene is the most important .
Vitamin A has multiple functions , it is important for growth and  विकास ,  for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision .
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of  the नजर  in the form of retinal , which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule , that is necessary for both low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color vision .
Vitamin A  भी कृत्यों in a बहुत  different role as an irreversibly oxidized form of retinol known as retinoic acid , which is an important hormone-like growth factor for epithelial and other cells .
In foods of animal origin , the major form of vitamin A is an ester , primarily retinyl palmitate , which is converted to retinol ( chemically an alcohol ) in  the small  intestine .
The retinol form functions as a storage form of the vitamin , and can be converted to and   from its visually active aldehyde form , retinal .
The  associated acid (  retinoic acid ) , a metabolite that can be irreversibly synthesized from vitamin A , has only partial vitamin A activity , and does not function in the retina for the visual cycle .
Retinoic acid is used for growth and cellular   differentiation .
All forms   of vitamin A have a beta-ionone ring to which an isoprenoid chain is attached , called a retinyl group .
Both structural features  हैं अनिवार्य लिये  vitamin activity .
The orange pigment of carrots  –  beta-carotene – can be represented as two connected retinyl groups , which are used in the body to contribute to vitamin A levels .
Alpha-carotene and  gamma-carotene  also have a single retinyl group , which give them some vitamin activity .
None of the  अन्य  carotenes have vitamin activity .
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and has  विटामिन कार्यकलाप  in humans .
विटामिन  A can be found in two principal forms in foods :
Retinol , the  रूप  of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources , is a yellow , fat-soluble substance .
Since the pure alcohol form is unstable , the vitamin is found in tissues in a form  of retinyl  ester .
It is also commercially produced  और  administered as esters such as retinyl acetate or palmitate .
The carotenes alpha-carotene , beta-carotene , gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings ) , but no other carotenoids , function as provitamin A in  herbivores और सर्वाहारी पशु , जिससे possess  the enzyme ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) which cleaves beta-carotene in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol .
In general , carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing carotenoids , and pure carnivores such as cats and ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase and can not convert any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids  being  forms of vitamin A for these species ) .
सेलिना मारी  Gomez ( born July 22 , 1992 ) is an American singer and actress .
She made her debut as  a  child actress in Barney & Friends .
In 2007 , Gomez came to  prominence as a अभिनीत  cast member in the television series Wizards of Waverly Place .
She signed to Hollywood Records the following year , and became the founder and lead singer of the pop band Selena   Gomez & the Scene .
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ) , A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ) , and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were  certified सुनहरा by  the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and have spawned Platinum-certified singles `` Naturally `` , `` Who Says `` , and `` Love You like a Love Song `` .
After the release of television films and their accompanying soundtracks , Gomez made her theatrical film debut in Ramona and  beezus in 2010 और स्ट्रक्चर  in Monte Carlo in 2011 .
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly Place and the hiatus of Selena Gomez & the Scene in 2012 , she focused on her film career , serving  as a  voice actress in Hotel Transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year .
Her  डेब्यू सोलो एल्बम  is tentatively scheduled to be released in summer 2013 , and is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It `` .
Outside of her work in the entertainment industry ,  गोमेज़ is  involved in philanthropic activities through charity work and various social and environmental causes .
Tracie Monique Spencer (  born जुलाई 12  , 1976 ) is an American R & B and pop singer-songwriter , actress , and model .
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of California and the seat of government of Sacramento   County .
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in the northern portion of California 's  expansive सेंट्रल घाटी  .
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891 , it is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest city in  the संयुक्त राज्य  .
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center of the  sacramento महानगर  area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area , San Francisco Bay Area , and the San Diego  महानगर  area , as well as the 25th largest in the United States .
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America 's most  ethnically और racially एकीकृत  city in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss immigrant John Sutter , Sr. , his son John Sutter , Jr.  , और जेम्स  W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's Fort , which was  स्थापित  by Sutter in 1839 .
दौरान the कैलिफ़ोर्निया सुनहरा फटाफट , sacramento थी a प्रमुख वितरण पाइंट , a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural बीच , और a टर्मिनस लिये वैगन रेल , stagecoaches , riverboats , the टेलीग्राफ , the टट्टू एक्स्प्रेस , और the पहला transcontinental रेलरोड  .
California State University , Sacramento , more commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac  राज्य , is the  largest local university .
it is एक of the twenty-three campuses of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली  .
Drexel  विश्वविद्यालयों  Sacramento is located in Downtown , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific 's   McGeorge School of Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California , Davis is located in nearby Davis , west of the  पूंजी  .
the uc डेविस चिकित्सा बीच , a world-renowned शोध हॉस्पिटल , is स्तिथ in the नगर of sacramento  .
Memorial Day is a  संयुक्त राज्य  federal holiday which occurs every year on the final Monday of May .
मेमोरियल दिन  is a day of remembering the men and women who died while serving in the United States Armed Forces .
Formerly known as Decoration Day , it originated after the   American Civil War to commemorate the Union and Confederate soldiers who died in the Civil War .
By the 20th century Memorial Day had been extended to honor  सब अमेरिकी जो have  died in all wars .
It typically marks the   start of the summer vacation season , while Labor Day marks its end .
Many people visit cemeteries and memorials ,  विशेषकर to  honor those who have died in military service .
Many  स्वयंसेवक  place an American flag on each grave in national cemeteries .
By the early 20th century , Memorial Day was an occasion for more general expressions of memory , as people visited  the graves  of their deceased relatives in church cemeteries , whether they had served in the military or not .
It also became a long weekend increasingly devoted to shopping , family gatherings , fireworks ,  trips to the beach ,  and national media events .
Annual Decoration Days for particular cemeteries are held on a Sunday in late spring or early  गर्मियाँ  in some rural areas of the American South , notably in the mountains .
In cases involving a family graveyard where remote ancestors as  well as those who were deceased  more recently are buried , this may take on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles .
People gather  on the designated  day and put flowers on graves and renew contacts with kinfolk and others .
There often is a religious service and a `` dinner on the ground , '' the traditional term for a  potluck meal in which people  used to spread the dishes out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass .
It is believed that  इस अभ्यास  began before the American Civil War and thus may reflect the real origin of the `` memorial day '' idea .
Memorial Day is not to be confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is a day of remembering  the मेन और महिलाओं जो died जबकि सेवारत , जबकि  Veterans Day celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans , living or dead .
Mt . Zion Church state history marker near  फिलाडेल्फिया  , Mississippi .
Freedom  गर्मियाँ ( भी ज्ञात as the मिसिसिपी गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट ) थी a अभियान in the संयुक्त राज्य शुभारम्भ in जून 1964 to attempt to पंजीकरण as अनेक अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी मतदाता as संभावित in मिसिसिपी , जिससे था historically excluded सबसे अश्वेतों इससे मतदान .
The project also set up  दर्जनों of स्वतंत्रता स्कूलों , स्वतंत्रता घरों , और जातियाँ centers in छोटी कस्बों throughout मिसिसिपी to सहायता the लोकल ब्लैक जनसांख्यिकी .
The project was organized by the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ) , a coalition of the Mississippi branches of the four major civil rights organizations (  sncc ,  CORE , NAACP and SCLC ) .
Most of the  impetus , नेतृत्व  , and financing for the Summer Project came from the SNCC .
Robert Parris Moses ,  sncc फ़ील्ड  secretary and co-director of COFO , directed the summer project .
Blues is the name given to both a musical  रूप और a म्यूज़िक विधा कि originated  in communities of primarily the `` Deep South `` of the United States around the end of the 19th century from spirituals , work songs , field hollers , shouts and chants , and rhymed simple narrative ballads .
The blues form , ubiquitous in jazz , rhythm and blues , and rock and roll is characterized by specific chord progressions , of which the twelve-bar blues chord progression is the  सबसे आम  .
The blue notes that , for expressive purposes are sung or played flattened  or gradually bent ( minor 3rd to major  3rd ) in relation to the pitch of the major scale , are also an important part of the sound .
The blues genre is based on the blues form but possesses other characteristics such as specific lyrics , bass lines , and  यंत्र .
Blues can be subdivided  into  several subgenres ranging from country to urban blues that were more or less popular during different periods of the 20th century .
Best known are the Delta ,  piedmont ,  Jump , and Chicago blues styles .
World War II marked the   transition from acoustic to electric blues and the progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience , especially white listeners .
In the 1960s and 1970s , a hybrid form called  blues-rock विकसित  .
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue devils '' ,  अर्थ वेदना और उदासी ;  an early use of the term in this sense is found in George Colman 's one-act farce Blue Devils ( 1798 ) .
हालांकि the  use of the phrase in African-American music may be older , it has been attested to since 1912 , when Hart Wand 's `` Dallas Blues `` became the first copyrighted blues composition .
In lyrics the phrase is often used to  describe  a depressed mood .
A quarter dollar , commonly shortened to quarter , is a coin worth  1⁄4 of  a United States dollar or 25 cents .
The quarter has been  उत्पादित  since 1796 .
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination , as opposed to 20¢  जिससे is अधिक आम in अन्य भाग of the संसार , originated साथ the अभ्यास of dividing स्पेनी milled डॉलर into आठ कील तराशा खण्ड ( cf. `` टुकड़े of आठ `` ) .
At one time `` two bits `` , i.e  . दो wedges , प्रत्येक कील an आठवीं  , thus a quarter of the Spanish real , was a common nickname for a quarter .
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican holiday celebrated throughout Mexico and around the  संसार in अन्य संस्कृतियों  .
The holiday focuses on gatherings of family and friends  to दुवा लिये  and remember friends and family members who have died .
It is particularly  celebrated in  Mexico , where it is a national holiday , and all banks are closed .
The celebration takes place on November 1 and 2 , in connection with the  कैथोलिक  holidays of All Saints ' Day and All Souls ' Day .
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the deceased using sugar skulls , marigolds ,  and the favorite foods and  beverages of the departed and visiting graves with these as gifts .
They  भी  leave possessions of the deceased .
Scholars  ट्रेस the origins of the आधुनिक मैक्सिकन अवकाश to स्वदेशी observances डेटिंग वापस सैंकड़ों of सालो और to an एज़टेक पर्व समर्पित to the देवी mictecacihuatl .
The holiday has spread throughout  the संसार : in ब्राज़ील , dia de finados  is a public holiday that many Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches .
In Spain , there are festivals and parades , and , at the end of the day , people gather at  कब्रिस्तान और  pray for their dead loved ones .
Similar observances occur elsewhere in  यूरोपीय , और  similarly themed celebrations appear in many Asian and African cultures .
ANITA Mk VIII  .
The ANITA Mark VII and ANITA Mark VIII calculators were launched simultaneously in late 1961 as the world 's first all- electronic  desktop  calculators .
Designed and  निर्मित  by the Bell Punch Co .
in Britain , and marketed through its Sumlock Comptometer division , they used vacuum tubes and cold-cathode switching tubes in their logic circuits and nixie tubes for their  numerical  displays .
They were the first   of a series of desktop and hand-held electronic calculators that the company was to develop and sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s .
George Washington ( – , 1799 ) was the first  अध्यक्ष of the  United States ( 1789–1797 ) , the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War , and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States .
He  presided over  the convention that drafted the Constitution , which replaced the Articles of Confederation and established the position of President .
Washington was elected President as the unanimous choice of the 69 electors in 1788 , and he served  दो शर्तें in दफ्तर  .
He oversaw the creation of a strong , well-financed  नेशनल  government that maintained neutrality in the wars raging in Europe , suppressed rebellion , and won acceptance among Americans of all types .
उसके  leadership style established many forms and rituals of government that have been used since , such as using a cabinet system and delivering an inaugural address .
Further , the peaceful transition from his presidency to  the  presidency of John Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st century .
Washington was hailed as `` father  of  his country `` even during his lifetime .
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of  औपनिवेशिक  Virginia ; his wealthy planter family owned tobacco plantations and slaves .
After both his father and  older  brother died when he was young , Washington became personally and professionally attached to the powerful William Fairfax , who promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier .
Washington quickly became a senior officer in the colonial forces during the first  चरण of the फ्रेंच  and Indian War .
Chosen by the Second Continental Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief   of the Continental Army in the American Revolution , Washington managed to force the British out of Boston in 1776 , but was defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City .
After crossing the  डेलावेयर  River in the dead of winter , he defeated the British in two battles , retook New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause .
Because of his strategy ,   Revolutionary forces captured two major British armies at Saratoga in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781 .
Historians laud Washington for his selection and supervision of his generals , encouragement of morale and ability to hold together the army , coordination with the state governors and state militia units , relations with Congress and attention  to आपूर्तियाँ , लोजिस्टिक्स , और  training .
In battle  , however  , Washington was repeatedly outmaneuvered by British generals with larger armies .
After  विजय था महरूम finalized in 1783 , वॉशिंगटन  resigned as Commander-in-chief rather than seize power , proving his opposition to dictatorship and his commitment to American republicanism .
Dissatisfied with the weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation , in 1787 Washington presided over  the Constitutional Convention  that drafted the United States Constitution .
Elected unanimously as the first President of the United States in 1789 , he attempted to bring rival factions together to unify the nation   .
He supported Alexander Hamilton  's  programs to pay off all state and national debt , to implement an effective tax system and to create a national bank ( despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ) .
Washington   proclaimed the United States neutral in the wars raging in Europe after 1793 .
He avoided war with Great Britain and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing the Jay Treaty in 1795 , despite  तीव्र विपक्ष  from the Jeffersonians .
Although never officially   joining the Federalist Party , he supported its programs .
Washington 's Farewell Address was an influential primer  on रिपब्लिकन  virtue and a warning against partisanship , sectionalism , and involvement in foreign wars .
he रिटायर्ड इससे the प्रेसिडेंसी in 1797 और लौटे to उसके घर , माउंट vernon , और उसके घरेलू जीवन जहाँ he प्रबंधित a किस्में of उद्यमों  .
He freed all his   slaves by his final will .
Washington  था a दृष्टि  of a great and powerful nation that would be built on republican lines using federal power .
He sought to use the national  government to  preserve liberty , improve infrastructure , open the western lands , promote commerce , found a permanent capital , reduce regional tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism .
At his death , Washington was eulogized as `` first in war , first in peace , and first in the hearts of his countrymen '' by  हेनरी ली  .
The Federalists made him the symbol of their party but for many years , the Jeffersonians continued to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington   Monument .
As the leader of the first successful  क्रान्ति विरूद्ध  a colonial empire in world history , Washington became an international icon for liberation and nationalism , especially in France and Latin America .
Fiscal Year 2012 U.S. Federal Spending  –  Cash or Budget Basis .
Fiscal  साल  2012 U.S. Federal Receipts .
The Budget of the United States Government often begins as the President 's proposal to the U.S. Congress which recommends funding levels for the next fiscal year ,  शुरूआत अक्तूबर 1  .
However , Congress is the body required by law to pass a budget annually and to submit the budget passed by both houses to the   President for signature .
Congressional decisions are governed by rules and legislation  regarding  the federal budget process .
Budget committees set spending limits for the  हाउस  and Senate committees and for Appropriations subcommittees , which then approve individual appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal programs .
If Congress fails to pass an annual budget ( as has been the case since 2009 ) , a  श्रेणी  of Appropriations bills must be passed as `` stop gap '' measures .
After Congress approves an appropriations bill , it is sent to the President , who may sign it into law , or may veto it (  as he होता a बजट  when passed by the Congress ) .
A vetoed bill is sent back to Congress , which can pass it into law with a two-thirds majority  in प्रत्येक कक्ष  .
Congress may also combine all or some  appropriations  bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill .
In addition , the president may request  and the  Congress may pass supplemental appropriations bills or emergency supplemental appropriations bills .
Several government agencies provide budget  आंकड़ा और विश्लेषण  .
These include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ) , Congressional Budget Office , the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) and the U.S. Treasury  विभाग  .
These agencies have reported that the federal government is facing a series of important  financing  challenges .
In the short-run , tax revenues have  declined  significantly due to a severe recession and tax policy choices , while expenditures have expanded for wars , unemployment insurance and other safety net spending .
In the long-run  ,  expenditures related to healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are projected to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures .
New Guinea ( also , Tok Pisin : Niugini , Dutch : Nieuw Guinea , and ; historically : Papua ) is the  संसार 's दूसरी largest द्वीप  , after Greenland , covering a land area of 786,000 km2 .
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean , it lies geographically to the east of the Malay Archipelago , with  जिससे it is sometimes शामिल  as part of a greater Indo-Australian Archipelago .
Geologically it is a part of the same  tectonic  plate as Australia .
When world sea levels were low , the two shared shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 metres below sea level ) , combining with lands now inundated into  the  tectonic continent of Sahul , also known as Greater Australia .
The two landmasses became separated when the area now  ज्ञात as  the Torres Strait flooded after the end of the last glacial period .
anthropologically  , New Guinea is considered part of Melanesia .
Politically , the  पश्चिमी  half of the island comprises two Indonesian provinces : Papua and West Papua .
The  पूर्वी  half forms the mainland of the country of Papua New Guinea .
The island has a population of  परिचय 7.5 लाख  , with a very low population density of only 8 inh/km2 .
New Guinea is differentiated from its drier , flatter , and less fertile southern counterpart , Australia   , by its much higher rainfall and its active volcanic geology , with its highest point , Puncak Jaya , reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ) .
Yet the two land masses share a similar animal fauna , with marsupials , including wallabies and possums ,  और the  egg-laying monotreme , the spiny anteater , or echidna .
Other than bats and some two dozen indigenous rodent genera , there are no pre-human indigenous  placental  mammals .
Pigs , several additional species of rats , and the ancestor of the New Guinea Singing Dog were introduced with human  colonization  .
The human presence on the island dates back at  तनिक  40,000 years to the oldest human migrations out of Africa .
Research indicates that the highlands were an early and independent center of agriculture , with evidence of irrigation going  वापस  at least 10,000 years .
Because of the time depth of its inhabitation and its highly fractured landscape , an unusually high number of languages are spoken on  the द्वीप , साथ कुछ 1,000 भाषाएं ( a फिगर उच्चतर  than that of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects .
Most are classified as  पापुआई भाषाएं , a generally  accepted geographical term which a minority of authors hold to be a genetic one .
A  क्रमांक of ऑस्ट्रोनीशियाई  languages are spoken on the coast and on offshore islands .
In the 16th century Spanish explorers discovered the island  और पुकारा  it Nueva Guinea .
In recent history   western New Guinea was included in the Dutch East Indies colony .
The Germans annexed the northern coast of the eastern half of the island as German New Guinea in their pre–World War I effort to establish themselves as a colonial power , whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by   Britain .
Following the Treaty of Versailles , the German portion was awarded to Australia ( which was already governing  the  British claim , named the Territory of Papua ) as a League of Nations mandate .
The eastern half of the island was granted   independence from Australia as Papua New Guinea in 1975 .
The western half gained independence from the Dutch in 1961 , but became part of   Indonesia soon afterwards in controversial circumstances .
`` The Van Buren Boys '' is the 148th episode of the sitcom Seinfeld ,  और नाम of a fictional  New York street gang .
Their sign is crossing the hands , with one hand with all the fingers   'up ' and spread out .
The other hand has all but the thumb and   pointer finger up , for a total of eight ( 8 ) .
The gang is named for the 8th President of the United States , Martin Van Buren ( who was the  first president from  New York ) .
This was the 14th episode for  the  8th season .
It  aired on फ़रवरी  6 , 1997 .
bevo  sign
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt beverage , or near beer ,  brewed in the United  States by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century .
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success during the time of prohibition , when beer , wine and distilled liquors , were made  illegal  for thirteen years .
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing Bevo when alcoholic   beverages were prohibited in 1916 by the United States armed forces .
Production rose greatly with national prohibition in 1919 , and Bevo   was by far the most popular of the many `` cereal beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the time .
At the peak of its popularity in the early 1920s , more than five  लाख  cases of Bevo were sold annually .
Renard with a mug of Bevo , depicted in terra cotta on the interior walls of the Bevo  भवन  , St. Louis
Labels on the bottles billed it as `` Bevo the  पेय  '' .
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` beverage '' and the Slavic language word for beer ``  pivo ''  , and was pronounced `` Bee-vo '' .
Some Bevo advertising featured the character `` Renard the Fox `` ( based on the  समर्थक of a मध्यकालीन  French folk-tale ) , and promotional mugs with this character were manufactured .
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of  boat-bodied गाड़ियाँ in इसके  St. Louis shops called the `` Bevo Boats '' which were used for promotion .
Seven are believed  to have  been built on Pierce-Arrow 8-cylinder chassis while one surviving example was based upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8 .
Billboard advertising Bevo in Trenton ,  नई जर्सी  , 1917
A contemporary advertisement read `` Cooling  और invigorating  , Bevo the Beverage .
Order by the case from your  पंसारी  , druggist , or dealer . ''
The paper  लेबल  on the back of the bottle read `` The All-Year-Round Soft Drink .
Appetizing - Healthful - Nutritious -  ताज़ा  .
Milk or water may   contain bacteria .
BEVO never does .  ''
Bevo  became  part of the popular culture of the time , and is mentioned in various popular songs and Vaudeville skits of the era .
इस led to द्वितीयक  slang uses of the word ; for example , in American military slang a young and inexperienced officer was called a `` Bevo '' .
The University of Texas named its mascot `` Bevo '' , a name which has  stuck  to this day .
इरविंग बर्लिन शामिल a paean to the पेय , `` तुम ca n't रहो up on bevo '' , in उसके 1917 फौज revue , यिप यिप yaphank .
In the late 1920s smuggled bootleg beer and  liquor as खूब  as `` homebrew `` , cut into Bevo 's marketshare .
With sales  flattening to  100,000 cases by 1929 , Anheuser-Busch stopped production .
The Bevo Mill , St. Louis ,  in 2008
The Bevo building , with the Renard character prominently  प्रदर्शित at  the corners , still operates as a bottling facility at their main brewery in St. Louis , Missouri .
The landmark Bevo Mill , constructed by August  anheuser बुच  , Sr. in 1917 .
It was closed in 2009 , but it   reopened in October 2009 under new owners .
Bevo is also mentioned in the short story `` The Killers  `` by अर्नेस्ट  Hemingway ; as well as in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis .
Mylanta is an over the counter medication used for the treatment of acid reflux , heartburn , and gastroesophageal reflux disease (  भी ज्ञात as गर्ड  ) .
Foremilk and Hindmilk samples  of  human breast milk
A glass of  pasteurized  cow milk
Milk is a white liquid produced by the  mammary  glands of mammals .
It is the primary source of nutrition for young mammals before they are able to  डाइजेस्ट अन्य प्रकार of खाना  .
Early- lactation milk contains   colostrum , which carries the mother 's antibodies to the baby and can reduce the risk of many diseases in the baby .
it भी contains अनेक अन्य nutrients .
As an agricultural product , milk is extracted  इससे  mammals and used as food for humans .
Worldwide , dairy farms produced about 730 million tonnes of milk  in  2011 .
India is the world 's largest producer and consumer of milk , yet  neither  exports nor imports milk .
New Zealand , the European Union 's 27 member states , Australia , and the United States  हैं the संसार 's largest निर्यातक  of milk and milk products .
China and Russia are the world 's largest importers of milk and  मिल्क उत्पाद  .
Throughout the world , there are more than 6 billion consumers of milk  और मिल्क उत्पाद  .
Over 750 million people live within  दुग्ध  farming households .
Milk is a key contributor to improving nutrition   and food security particularly in developing countries .
Improvements in livestock  और दुग्ध प्रौद्योगिकी प्रस्ताव significant वादा in reducing गरीबी और कुपोषण in the संसार .
Motorcycle speedway , usually referred to as speedway ,  is a motorcycle sport  involving four and sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit .
Speedway motorcycles use only one gear and have no brakes and  रेसिंग  takes place on a flat oval track usually consisting of dirt or loosely packed shale .
Competitors use this surface to slide their machines   sideways , powersliding or broadsiding into the bends .
On the straight sections  of  the track the motorcycles reach speeds of up .
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence of a type of speedway racing  होने practised in the यूएसए पहले the पहला संसार  War and in Australia in the late 1910s and early 1920s .
वहीँ हैं अभी दोनो घरेलू और अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिताओं in a क्रमांक of देशों सहित the स्पीडवे संसार कप whilst the उच्चतम overall स्कोरिंग व्यक्तिगत in the स्पीडवे ग्रैंड प्रिक्स कार्यक्रम is सुनाया  the world champion .
Speedway is popular in central and northern Europe and to a lesser extent  in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and North America .
A variant of track racing , speedway is administered internationally by the  fédération  Internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ) .
Domestic speedway events are regulated by FIM  affiliated  national motor sport federations .
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for  intestinal  absorption of calcium and phosphate .
In humans , the most important related compounds of vitamin D  हैं विटामिन d2 और विटामिन d3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are   unique as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements .
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun exposure is adequate (  hence  its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin , it is not actually an  अनिवार्य dietary  vitamin in the strict sense , as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight .
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must  प्राप्त it  in their diet . )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically  called a vitamin when  it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with other compounds commonly called vitamins , vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance  that  was lacking in a disease , namely , rickets , the childhood form of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like other compounds called vitamins , in the developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods , such as milk ,  to avoid बीमारी due to कमियां  .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous  संश्लेषण इससे एक्सपोज़र to धूप as खूब as सेवन  from the diet , and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that  रोकता toxicity  but , because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight , no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine , USA , for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet ,  हालांकि कि होगा rarely occur  in practice .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite  that  is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol , the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood ,  regulating the concentration of calcium and  phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes , such as the proliferation ,  differentiation और apoptosis of कोशिकाएं ; calcitriol  also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets , the evidence for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the  सामान्य  population is inconsistent .
The best evidence of benefit  is for  bone health and a decrease in mortality in elderly women .
The Duramax is a General Motors diesel engine family for light- and medium duty trucks ,  designed  by Isuzu .
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by DMAX , a joint venture between GM and Isuzu in  moraine  , Ohio .
This engine was initially installed in 2001 model year Chevy and GMC  ट्रक और रै  been an option since then in pickups , vans , and medium-duty trucks .
In 2006 , production at Moraine was reportedly limited to approximately 200,000 engines  प्रति  year .
On May 9 , 2007 , DMAX announced the production of the 1,000,000th Duramax V-8 diesel at its Moraine   facility .
duramax  LML
balto  .
is also a  परंपरागत लिखा  abbreviation for Baltimore , Maryland .
Statue of  balto in सेंट्रल  Park ( New York City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14 , 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog  who led his team on the  final leg of the 1925 serum run to Nome , in which diphtheria antitoxin was transported from Anchorage , Alaska , to Nenana , Alaska , by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease .
The run is  commemorated  by the annual Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race .
Balto was named after the Sami   explorer Samuel Balto .
Balto died at the  आयु  of 14 .
Professor Stephen Hawking , known  लिये होने a सैद्धांतिक  physicist , has appeared in many works of popular culture .
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan  , marketed as the ``  four-door sports car '' .
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810 , an upscale six-cylinder version of the Bluebird , and was spun into its  अपना लकीर in 1981 , having महरूम बना  continuously since then .
The `` Maxima '' name was   applied gradually , beginning in 1981 .
Most pre-2004 Maximas were built in Oppama , Japan , until the current North American Maximas  प्रारंभ होने  assembled in Smyrna , Tennessee .
The `` Maxima  ''  has also been applied to Cefiros and Laurels in various markets .
propolis  as hive sealing
propolis is a resinous मिश्रण कि मधु मधुमक्खियों collect इससे पेड़ कलियों , sap बहती , or अन्य वनस्पति स्त्रोत  .
It is  प्रयुक्त as  a sealant for unwanted open spaces in the hive .
Propolis is used for small gaps ( approximately or less ) , while larger spaces are usually filled  साथ  beeswax .
Its color  varies depending on इसके वनस्पति सोर्स , the सबसे आम होने अंधेरा भूरा .
propolis is स्टिकी at और ऊपर रूम तापमान , .
At lower temperatures , it becomes hard and  बहुत भंगुर  .
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26 , 1948 ) is an American singer , songwriter , and multi-instrumentalist , best known as the frontman and lead singer of  the बोस्टन -आधारd चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ , in जिससे  he also plays the harmonica , and occasional piano and percussion .
He is known as the ``   Demon of Screamin ' '' due to his high screams and his wide vocal range .
He is also known for his on-stage  acrobatics  .
During his  high-energy  performances , he usually dresses in bright , colorful outfits with his trademark scarves hanging from his microphone stand .
in the 1970s , टायलर रोज़ to prominence as the frontman of एरोस्मिथ , जिससे released ऐसे पड़ाव मुश्किल चट्टान एल्बम as खिलौने in the  Attic and Rocks .
In the late 1970s and early 1980s , Tyler had a heavy  ड्रग और दारू  addiction , and the band 's popularity waned .
He completed drug rehabilitation in 1986 and subsequently maintained sobriety for over 20 years , but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the late 2000s , for which he  सफलतापूर्वक प्राप्त  treatment in 2009 .
After  एरोस्मिथ शुभारम्भ  a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and early 1990s with the albums Permanent Vacation , Pump , and Get a Grip , Tyler became a household name and has remained a relevant rock icon .
As a result , he has since embarked on several solo endeavors including guest appearances on other artists ' music , film and TV  भूमिकाएँ  ( including as a judge on American Idol ) , authoring a bestselling book , and solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ) .
However , he has continued to record  म्यूज़िक और  perform with Aerosmith , after more than 43 years in the band .
The band 's latest album , Music from Another  आयाम  !
, was released on  नवम्बर  6 , 2012 .
टायलर is शामिल  among Rolling Stones 100 Greatest Singers .
He was also ranked 3rd on Hit Parader 's Top 100 Metal Vocalists of  सब समय  .
In 2001 he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame with  Aerosmith , and he was the  presenter when AC/DC was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003 .
in 2013 , टायलर और उसके songwriting संगी जो पेरी होगा be प्राप्तकर्ता of the ascap संस्थापकों पुरस्कार और होगा भी be inducted into the songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति  .
The liver produces urea  in the urea  cycle as a waste product of the digestion of protein .
Normal human  वयस्क रक्त चाहिए contain between  7 to 21 mg of urea nitrogen per 100 ml ( 7–21 mg/ dL ) of blood .
व्यक्तिगत laboratories may have  different reference ranges , and this is because the procedure may vary .
Wayne Fontes ( born February 2 ,  1940 ) is a  former American football coach and college and professional football player who was the head coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996 .
His 67 wins and 71 losses are each the most  लिये a सिर कोच  in team history .
The Jews ( ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ) , also known as the Jewish people , are a nation and an  ethnoreligious समूह , originating  in the Israelites or Hebrews of the Ancient Near East .
The Jewish ethnicity , nationality , and religion are  strongly interrelated , as judaism  is the traditional faith of the Jewish nation .
Converts to Judaism , whose status as Jews within the Jewish ethnos is equal to those born into it , have been absorbed into the  यहूदी लोगों throughout  the millennia .
In Jewish tradition , Jewish ancestry is traced to the  biblical  patriarchs Abraham , Isaac and Jacob in the second millennium BCE .
The modern State of Israel was established as a Jewish nation-state , and defines itself as  ऐसे in इसके  Basic Laws .
Its Law of Return grants the right of citizenship to  कोई jew जो निवेदन  it .
Israel is the only country where Jews are a majority  of the जनसांख्यिकी  .
Jews also enjoyed political autonomy  twice  before in ancient history .
The first of these periods lasted from 1350 to 586 BCE ,  और encompassed the अवधि of the  Judges , the United Monarchy , and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah , ending with the destruction of the First Temple .
The second was the  काल of the  Hasmonean Kingdom spanning from 140 to 37 BCE .
Since the destruction of  the  First Temple , most Jews have lived in diaspora .
A minority in every country in which they live ( except Israel ) , they have frequently   experienced persecution throughout history , resulting in a population that has fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries .
The world Jewish  जनसांख्यिकी पहुँचे  a peak of 15 million prior to the Second World War , but six million Jews were killed in the Holocaust .
Since then the population has  risen again and , was  estimated at 13.4 million by the North American Jewish Data Bank , or less than 0.2 % of the total world population ( roughly one in every 514 people ) .
according to इस रपट , परिचय 42.5 % of सब यहूदियों reside in इसराईल ( 5.7 लाख ) , और 39.3 % in the संयुक्त राज्य ( 5.3 लाख ) , साथ सबसे of the शेष जीना in यूरोपीय ( 1.5 लाख ) और कनाडा ( 0.4 लाख  ) .
These numbers include  all  those who consider themselves Jews , whether or not they are affiliated with a Jewish organization .
The total  संसार  Jewish population , however , is difficult to measure .
In addition to issues with census methodology , there are halakhic disputes regarding who is  a Jew and  secular , political , and ancestral identification factors that may affect the figure considerably .
Corpus  christi बारात  .
Oil on  कैनवास  by Carl Emil Doepler .
Corpus   Domini redirects here .
For other uses see  कॉर्पस  Domini ( disambiguation )
The Feast of Corpus Christi  ( Latin for Body of Christ )  , also known as Corpus Domini , is a Latin Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief in the body and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist .
It emphasizes the joy of the institution of  the  Eucharist , which was observed on Holy Thursday in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of Good Friday .
In the present Roman Missal , the feast is   designated the solemnity of The Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ .
it is भी मनाये  in some Anglican , Lutheran , and Old Catholic Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence .
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday or , `` where the Solemnity of the Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation , it is  आबंटित to the संडे  after the Most Holy Trinity as its proper day '' .
At the end of Holy Mass , there is often a procession of the Blessed Sacrament , generally displayed  in a monstrance  .
The  बारात is followed by सुनाकर of the धन्य sacrament .
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over by the Pope each year in Rome , where it begins at the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran and makes its way to the Basilica of Saint Mary  प्रमुख , जहाँ it concludes  with Benediction .
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood , the levels of  which  rise in response to inflammation ( i.e . C-reactive protein is an acute-phase protein ) .
Its  physiological भूमिका is to bind to phosphocholine  expressed on the surface of dead or dying cells ( and some types of bacteria ) in order to activate the complement system via the C1Q complex .
CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to   factors released by macrophages and fat cells ( adipocytes ) .
it is a सदस्य of the pentraxin परिवार of प्रोटीन .
It is not related to  c-peptide or प्रोटीन  C .
C-reactive protein was the first  पैटर्न  recognition receptor ( PRR ) to be identified .
The start of the systematic European colonization of the Americas  is typically dated to 1492  , when a Spanish expedition headed by Christopher Columbus sailed for India to open trade but inadvertently discovered the Americas .
European conquest , large-scale exploration and  colonization जल्द  followed .
Seeing that  यूरोपीय थी preoccupied  with many internal wars and was slowly recovering from the many deaths that the bubonic plague caused , the rapid expansion at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s .
The first expeditions occurred along the Caribbean coasts on the islands of Hispaniola , Puerto Rico and Cuba , and after 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South  अमेरिका  .
In 1497 , sailing from the north on behalf of England , John Cabot  उतरा on the उत्तर  American coast , and a year later , Columbus 's third voyage reached the South American coast .
France founded colonies in much of  पूर्वी  North America , on a number of Caribbean islands , and in South America .
Portugal  colonized  Brazil .
आखिरकार , the संपूर्ण पश्चिमी गोलार्ध आए अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of यूरोपीय सरकारें , अग्रणी to profound परिवर्तन to इसके लैंडस्केप , जनसांख्यिकी , और संयंत्र और एनिमल जीवन  .
In the 19th century alone over 50 million people left Europe for the  americas  .
The  post-1492  era is known as the period of the Columbian Exchange .
Keith Richards ( born 18 December 1943 ) is an English musician ,   singer-songwriter and founder member of the English rock band the Rolling Stones .
Rolling Stone magazine  said Richards had created `` rock  's greatest single body of riffs '' , ranking him 4th on its list of 100 best guitarists .
चौदह गीतों रिचर्ड्स  wrote with the Rolling Stones ' lead vocalist Mick Jagger are listed among Rolling Stone magazine 's `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time `` .
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the late 1960s and 1970s and his candour  regarding  his addiction to and eventual abstinence from heroin .
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen  समूह और  is found in mammals , reptiles , birds , and other vertebrates .
In mammals , testosterone is primarily secreted in the testicles of males and the ovaries of females , although small amounts are also  स्रावित by the अधिवृक्क ग्रंथियों  .
It is the principal male sex hormone and an anabolic  स्टेरॉयड  .
In men , testosterone plays a key role in the development of male reproductive tissues such as the testis and prostate as well as  promoting  secondary sexual characteristics such as increased muscle , bone mass , and the growth of body hair .
In addition , testosterone is essential for health and  well-being  as well as the prevention of osteoporosis .
On average , in adult human males , the plasma concentration of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great as the concentration in adult human females ' plasma , but  as the metabolic  consumption of testosterone in males is greater , the daily production is about 20 times greater in men .
महिलाओं  also are more sensitive to the hormone .
Testosterone  is observed  in most vertebrates .
Fish make a slightly different form  पुकारा  11-ketotestosterone .
Its  बंटवारा  in insects is ecdysone .
These ubiquitous steroids suggest that sex hormones have an  प्राचीन विकासवादी  history .
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when `` natural '' but relatively homogeneous groupings are  evident  in a statistical population .
It is often used in marketing  शोध  .
In this technique , the total population is divided into  ये समूह  ( or clusters ) and a simple random sample of the groups is selected .
Then the required information is collected from a simple random sample of the elements within  प्रत्येक चयनित  group .
This may be done for every element in these groups or  a  subsample of elements may be selected within each of these groups .
A common  प्रेरणा लिये क्लस्टर sampling is to reduce the कुल क्रमांक of साक्षात्कार और लागत दिए the desired सटीकता .
Assuming a fixed sample size , the technique gives  अधिक सटीक परिणाम  when most of the variation in the population is within the groups , not between them .
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County , North Carolina , United States , and is a suburb of the nearby cities  of  Greensboro and High Point .
the जनसांख्यिकी  was 3,382 at the 2010 census .
Natalie Portman ( born Natalie Hershlag ;  ; जून  9 , 1981 ) is an actress and model with dual American and Israeli citizenship .
Her first role was as an orphan taken in by a hitman in the 1994 action film , but mainstream success came when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars   prequel trilogy ( released in 1999 , 2002 and 2005 ) .
In 1999 , she enrolled at Harvard University to  पढ़ाई  psychology while still working as an actress .
She completed her bachelor  's  degree in 2003 .
In 2001 , Portman  खोली  in New York City 's Public Theater production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull .
In 2005 , Portman received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress - Motion Picture  for  the drama Closer .
She won a Constellation Award for Best Female Performance and a Saturn Award for Best Actress for her starring  भूमिका in v लिये  Vendetta ( 2006 ) .
She played leading roles in the historical dramas Goya 's Ghosts ( 2006 )  और the अन्य  Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ) .
In May 2008 , she served as the youngest member of the 61st Annual Cannes Film  पर्व  jury .
Portman 's directorial debut , Eve , opened the 65th   Venice International Film Festival 's shorts competition in 2008 .
Portman  निर्देशित  a segment of the collective film New York , I Love You .
In 2011 , Portman won the Academy Award , the Golden Globe Award  , the bafta पुरस्कार ,  the Screen Actors Guild Award , and the Independent Spirit Award for her lead performance as Nina Sayers in Black Swan .
Copper  is a रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक cu ( इससे ) और परमाणु क्रमांक 29 .
It is a ductile metal with very high thermal and  विद्युत चालकता  .
Pure copper is soft and  malleable  ; a freshly exposed surface has a reddish-orange color .
It is used as  a  conductor of heat and electricity , a building material , and a constituent of various metal alloys .
The metal  और  its alloys have been used for thousands of years .
In the Roman era , copper was   principally mined on Cyprus , hence the origin of the name of the metal as сyprium ( metal of Cyprus ) , later shortened to сuprum .
Its compounds  हैं commonly encountered  as copper ( II ) salts , which often impart blue or green colors to minerals such as azurite and turquoise and have been widely used historically as pigments .
Architectural structures  निर्मित  with copper corrode to give green verdigris ( or patina ) .
Decorative art prominently features copper , both by  itself  and as part of pigments .
Copper is essential to all living organisms as a trace dietary mineral because it is a key constituent   of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase .
in molluscs और  crustacea copper is a constituent of the blood pigment hemocyanin , which is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates .
The main areas where copper is found in vertebrates   are liver , muscle and bone .
In sufficient concentration , copper compounds are  जहरीला to  higher organisms and are used as bacteriostatic substances , fungicides , and wood preservatives .
The major professional sports leagues , or simply major  leagues , in the United States  and Canada are the highest professional competitions of team sports in the two countries .
Although individual sports such as golf , tennis ,  और  auto racing are also very popular , the term is usually limited to team sports .
The term `` major league '' was first used in 1921 in reference to Major League Baseball ( MLB ) ,  the शीर्ष  level of professional American baseball .
Today , the major northern North America professional team sports leagues are Major League Baseball ( MLB ) , the National Basketball Association ( NBA ) , the National Football League ( NFL ) , and the National  Hockey League ( NHL  ) .
Other notable leagues include Major League Soccer ( MLS ) , the Canadian Football League ( CFL   ) , the Arena Football League , Major League Lacrosse , the National Lacrosse League and the Women 's National Basketball Association .
The NFL ,  एमएलबी  , NBA , and NHL are commonly referred to as the Big Four .
Each of these is the richest professional  club  competition in its sport worldwide .
The best players can become cultural icons in both countries and elsewhere in the world , because the leagues enjoy a significant   place in popular culture in the US and Canada .
The NFL has 32 teams , and the others  have 30 प्रत्येक  .
The vast majority of major league teams  हैं  concentrated in the most populous metropolitan areas of the United States .
Baseball , football , hockey  , and soccer have had  professional leagues for over 100 years ; early leagues such as the National Association , Ohio League , and National Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern MLB , NFL and NHL respectively .
Soccer was first professionalized in 1894 , but leagues suffered greatly from lack of sustainability  and  seldom lasted more than a decade .
सॉकर 's महानतम सफलताओं यहूद in the रूप of the अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ) , the असली उत्तर अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1968-1984 ) , the नेशनल पेशेवर सॉकर लीग ( 1984-2001 ) और , फिलहाल , प्रमुख लीग  Soccer ( 1996-present ) .
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the NBA evolved from the National Basketball League and its splinter group the Basketball  संघ  of America , taking on its current form in 1949 .
Every   major league averages 15,000 fans in attendance per game or higher as of 2011 .
Meridian Altitude is an astronomical navigation method of  calculating  an observer 's latitude .
Earned value management ( EVM ) , or Earned value  project/performance  management ( EVPM ) is a project management technique for measuring project performance and progress in an objective manner .
Because EVM has the ability to combine  माप  of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
and  cost,
in a सिंगल एकीकृत प्रणाली , अर्जित मान प्रबन्धन is समर्थ to provide सटीक forecasts of प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन समस्याएं , जिससे is an महत्वपूर्ण योगदान लिये प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन  .
Early EVM research showed that the areas of planning and  control are significantly  impacted by its use ; and similarly , using the methodology improves both scope definition as well as the analysis of overall project performance .
More recent research studies have shown that the  सिद्धान्त  of EVM are positive predictors of project success .
Popularity of EVM  रै grown  significantly in recent years beyond government contracting , in which sector its importance continues to rise ( e.g. , recent new DFAR rules ) , in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes .
Colorful spring  गार्डन पुष्प
Spring  is एक of the  four conventional temperate seasons , following winter and preceding summer .
वहीँ हैं विभिन्न तकनीकी  definitions of spring , but local usage of the term varies according to local climate , cultures and customs .
When it is spring in the northern  गोलार्ध , it  will be autumn in the southern hemisphere .
At the spring equinox , days are close to 12 hours  long  with day length increasing as the season progresses .
Spring and `` springtime '' refer to the season , and also to ideas of rebirth , rejuvenation , renewal , resurrection , and regrowth , with festivals such  as  Carnival , Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time .
jamestown थी a उपनिवेश in the उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया , the पहला स्थाई अंग्रेज़ी उपनिवेश in  the Americas .
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on May 14 , 1607 ( O.S  . , May 24 ,  1607 N.S . ) , it followed several earlier failed attempts , including the Lost Colony of Roanoke .
Jamestown served as the capital of the colony for 83 years  , from  1616 until 1699 .
The settlement was located within the territory of a political entity known as Tsenacommacah , the state of the Powhatan Confederacy , with around 14,000  देशी निवासियों  , and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe .
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing , feasting and tobacco ceremonies , and they provided crucial provisions and support for the survival of the colonists , who were not agriculturally inclined , although   relations with the newcomers also soured fairly early on , leading to the total annihilation of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 years .
Within a year of Jamestown 's  founding  , the Virginia Company brought Polish and Dutch colonists to help improve the settlement .
In 1619 , the first documented Africans were brought to  jamestown ,  though the modern conception of slavery in the future United States did not begin in Virginia until 1660 .
When the colony was  subdivided into  the original eight shires of Virginia in 1634 , the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire .
The London Company 's second settlement , Bermuda , claims to be the site of the oldest town in the English New World , as St. George 's , Bermuda was officially established ( as New London ) in 1612 , whereas James Fort , in Virginia , was not to be converted into James towne until 1619 , and further   did not survive into the present day .
In 1699 , the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is today Williamsburg , after which  jamestown ceased  to exist as a settlement , existing today only as an archaeological site .
आज , jamestown is एक of तीन स्थितियाँ comprising the ऐतिहासिक त्रिभुज of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया , साथ साथ williamsburg और yorktown , साथ दो प्राथमिक विरासत साइट  .
Historic Jamestowne , the archaeological site on Jamestown Island  , is a  cooperative effort by Jamestown National Historic Site ( part of Colonial National Historical Park ) , and Preservation Virginia .
The Jamestown Settlement , a living history interpretive site , is operated by  the  Jamestown Yorktown Foundation in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia .
James Christopher  Frey  ( born September 12 , 1969 ) is an American writer .
His books A Million Little  Pieces (  2003 ) and My Friend Leonard ( 2005 ) , as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ) , were bestsellers .
He was the subject of a scandal when investigators discovered that prison time and the extent of certain injuries were exaggerated in A  लाख छोटी टुकड़े , a अधिकारीगण  autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction .
Deere & Company , most commonly known by its name John Deere  , is an अमरीकी  corporation based in Moline , Illinois , and one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world .
In 2012 , it was listed as 97th in the Fortune 500 America 's ranking and  190th in  the Fortune 500 Global ranking .
Deere and Company agricultural products , sold under the John Deere name , include  tractors ,  combine harvesters , cotton harvesters , balers , planters / seeders , sprayers , and UTVs .
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment , as well as a supplier of diesel engines and drivetrains ( axles , transmissions , gearboxes  )  used in heavy equipment .
Additionally , John Deere manufactures  उपकरण प्रयुक्त  in lawn , grounds , and turf care , such as walk-behind lawn mowers , zero-turn lawn mowers , lawn tractors , and snowthrowers .
To support the core  व्यवसायों  , John Deere also provides financial services and other related activities .
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' and has a picture of a leaping deer as a logo , a word play pun on ``  nothing  runs like a deer '' .
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' for a marketing  अभियान  to sell snowmobiles .
The company 's products are also  identifiable  by its distinctive shade of green paint , usually augmented by yellow trim .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a  denomination  of United States currency .
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ) , Alexander  हैमिल्टन , is  currently featured on the obverse of the bill , while the U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse .
( Hamilton is one of two  non-presidents  featured on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other is Benjamin Franklin , on  the $  100 bill .
Hamilton is one of only four people  प्रदर्शित  on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States , as he was from the West Indies .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade , Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91 Treasury Note )  ; and Robert Morris ,  England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In addition , Kamehameha I , appears on the 2008  हवाई राज्य  quarter . )
All $  10  bills issued today are Federal Reserve Notes .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 bill  in circulation is  18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
लगभग 6 % of सब us banknotes मुद्रित in 2009 यहूद $ 10 बिल्स .
Ten dollar bills are  वितरित  by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps .
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is   John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill featured a  पोर्ट्रेट  of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left , but was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
Andy Samuel Griffith ( June 1 , 1926 – July 3 , 2012 ) was an American actor ,  टेलीविज़न निर्माता , ग्रैमी  Award -winning Southern-gospel singer , and writer .
He was a Tony Award nominee for two roles , and gained prominence in the starring role in director Elia Kazan  's film A  Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) before he became better known for his television roles , playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock .
Theresa Penelope ``  terri '' इरविन , ( née raines ; born जुलाई 20 , 1964  ) is an Australian -based , American -born naturalist , author , the widow of Australian naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah , Queensland , Australia .
She co-starred with her husband on The Crocodile Hunter , their unconventional television nature  वृत्तचित्र श्रेणी साथ  with its spin-off series , Croc Files and The Crocodile Hunter Diaries .
She  रै  lived in Australia since 1992 , when she married Steve Irwin .
Andreas  cellarius  's illustration of the Copernican system , from the Harmonia Macrocosmica ( 1660 ) .
Heliocentrism , or heliocentricism , is  the astronomical model in which the  Earth and planets revolve around a relatively stationary Sun at the center of the Solar System .
The word comes from the Greek ( helios `` sun '' and kentron ``  बीच '' )  .
Historically , heliocentrism was opposed to  geocentrism  , which placed the Earth at the center .
The notion that the Earth revolves around the Sun had been proposed as early as the 3rd century BC by Aristarchus of Samos , but  aristarchus 's heliocentrism आकर्षित छोटी  attention until Copernicus revived and elaborated it .
Lucio Russo , however , argues that this is a  misleading  impression resulting from the loss of scientific works of the Hellenistic Era .
using अप्रत्यक्ष प्रमाण he argues कि a heliocentric दृश्य थी expounded in हिप्पारकस 's कार्य on गम्भीरता  .
It was not until the 16th century that a fully predictive   mathematical model of a heliocentric system was presented , by the Renaissance mathematician , astronomer , and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland , leading to the Copernican Revolution .
In the following  सदी , योहानेस कॅप्लर  elaborated upon and expanded this model to include elliptical orbits , and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei .
With the observations of William Herschel , Friedrich Bessel , and others , astronomers realized that the sun was  नहीं the बीच of the ब्रह्मांड और  by the 1920s Edwin Hubble had shown that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions .
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar ; March 30 , 1979 ) is an American  singer-songwriter  , pianist , and actress .
She is the daughter of Indian sitar player Ravi Shankar  और  Sue Jones .
She is  भी  Anoushka Shankar 's half-sister .
In 2002 , she launched her solo music career with the release of the commercially successful and critically acclaimed album Come Away with Me , a fusion of country music and  पॉप साथ तत्व of  jazz which was certified diamond album , selling over 26 million copies .
The record earned Jones five Grammy Awards , including the Album of  the  Year , Record of the Year , and Best New Artist .
Her subsequent studio albums , Feels Like Home , released in 2004 , Not Too Late , released in 2007 , the same year she made her film debut in My Blueberry Nights , and her 2009 release  the पतन सब gained प्लेटिनम औकात  , selling over a million copies and were generally well received by critics .
Jones ' fifth studio album , Little Broken Hearts , was released on April 27  ,  2012 .
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards and  थी 60th  on Billboard magazine 's artists of the 2000–2009 decade chart .
Throughout her career , Jones has  जीती numerous पुरस्कार  and has sold more than 50 million albums worldwide .
Billboard named her the top jazz   artist of the 2000–2009 decade .
Not to be confused with Dimension of a  शारीरिक  quantity .
For   other uses , see Dimension ( disambiguation ) .
From left to right , the square ,  the घन  , and the tesseract .
The square is bounded by 1-dimensional lines , the cube by 2-dimensional areas , and the tesseract by  3-dimensional  volumes .
A projection of the cube is given since it is   viewed on a two-dimensional screen .
The same applies to the tesseract , which additionally can only be  दिखाया as  a projection even in three-dimensional space .
A diagram showing the  पहला  four spatial dimensions .
In  भौतिकी और गणित  , the dimension of a space or object is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to specify any point within it .
Thus a line  रै a आयाम  of one because only one coordinate is needed to specify a point on it ( for example , the point at 5 on a number line ) .
A surface such as a plane or the surface of a cylinder or sphere has a dimension of two because two coordinates are needed to specify a point on it ( for example , to locate a point on the surface of a sphere  you need both its latitude  and its longitude ) .
The inside  of a cube  , a cylinder or a sphere is three-dimensional because three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces .
In physical terms , dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its position in time ( perceived as a scalar dimension along the t-axis ) , as well as the spatial constitution of objects within—structures that correlate with both particle and field conceptions , interact according to relative properties of mass  —and हैं fundamentally  mathematical in description .
These , or other axes , may be referenced to  uniquely पहचानो a  point or structure in its attitude and relationship to other objects and occurrences .
Physical theories that incorporate time , such as general relativity , are said to work in  4-dimensional  `` spacetime `` , ( defined as a Minkowski space ) .
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional ''  सहित  quantum field and string theories .
The  state-space of  quantum mechanics is an infinite-dimensional function space .
The concept of dimension  is नहीं प्रतिबंधित  to physical objects .
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences for many reasons , frequently as configuration spaces such as in Lagrangian or Hamiltonian  mechanics  ; these are abstract spaces , independent of the physical space we live in .
Fontana  (  ) is a city of 200,762 residents in San Bernardino County , California .
Founded in 1913 , it remained essentially rural until World War II , when entrepreneur Henry J. Kaiser built a large  स्टील मिल in the  area .
It is now a regional hub of the trucking industry , with Interstate 10 and State Route  210  transecting the city from east to west , and Interstate 15 passing diagonally through its northwestern quadrant .
It is home to the largest of the San Bernardino County system libraries  , a  renovated historic theater , a municipal park , and the Auto Club Speedway on the site of the Kaiser Steel Mill .
Fontana also hosts the Fontana Days Half   Marathon and 5K run .
This race is the fastest half-marathon course in the  संसार  .
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that Fontana 's population was 200,762 in 2012 , making it the second most populous city  in San  Bernardino county county and 14th in the state .
Cowboys Stadium is a stadium with a retractable roof in  आर्लिंगटन  , Texas .
It serves  as  the home of the National Football League 's Dallas Cowboys .
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium , which opened in 1971 , and served as the Cowboys '   home through the 2008 season .
it थी  completed on May 27 , 2009 .
The stadium seats 85,000 , making it the third largest  स्टेडियम in the  NFL by seating capacity .
the अधिकतम क्षमता of the स्टेडियम , सहित खड़ा रूम , is 105,000  .
The Party Pass ( open areas  )  sections are behind seats in each end zone and on a series of six elevated platforms connected by stairways .
It has  the संसार 's  largest column-free interior and the fourth largest high definition video screen , which hangs from 20 yard line to 20 yard line .
The facility can also be used for a variety of other   activities outside of its main purpose ( professional football ) such as concerts , basketball games , boxing matches , college football and high school football contests , soccer matches , and motocross races .
Canadian historians until  the 1980s  tended to focus on economic history , including labour history .
In part this is  क्युकी  Canada has had far fewer political or military conflicts than other societies .
This was  विशेषकर सच्चा in the पहला हाफ of the बीसवीं सदी जब आर्थिक इतिहास थी overwhelmingly प्रबल .
Many of the most prominent English Canadian historians from this period were economic historians , such as Harold Innis  ,  Donald Creighton and Arthur R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the traditions that developed in Europe and the United  राज्य , लकिन  frameworks that worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada .
The heavily Marxist influenced economic history that   dominates Europe has little relevance to most of Canadian history .
A focus on   class , urban areas , and industry fails to address Canada 's rural and resource based economy .
Similarly , the monetarist school that is dominant in the United States  भी  has been difficult to transfer north of the border .
The study of economic history in Canada became highly focused on economic geography , and for many years the dominant school of thought has  महरूम the स्टेपल्स  thesis .
This school of thought bases the study of the Canadian economy on the  पढ़ाई of प्राकृतिक संसाधन  .
This  दृष्टिकोण रै चूंकि  also become used outside of Canada in Australia and in many developing nations .
Before the arrival of Europeans , the First Nations of  कया  would become Canada had a large and vibrant trade network .
Furs , tools , decorative items , and other goods were often transported thousands of kilometres , mostly by canoe  throughout  the many rivers and lakes of the region .
the जल्दी यूरोपीय इतिहास of the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था is प्रायः पढ़ाई through the स्टेपल्स लेख जिससे argues the कनाडाई अर्थव्यवस्था विकसित through the शोषण of a श्रेणी of स्टेपल्स कि होता be exported to  Europe .
Carbon-14 , 14C , or radiocarbon , is a radioactive  समस्थानिक of कार्बन साथ a केंद्रक  containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons .
Its presence in organic materials is the basis of the radiocarbon dating method   pioneered by Willard Libby and colleagues ( 1949 ) to date archaeological , geological and hydrogeological samples .
Carbon-14 was discovered on 27 February 1940 , by Martin Kamen and Sam Ruben  at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley , although its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934 .
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth : 99 % of the carbon is carbon-12 , 1 % is carbon-13 , and carbon-14 occurs in trace amounts , i.e. ,  बनाना  up about 1 part per trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere .
The half-life of carbon-14 is 5,730±40 years   .
Carbon-14 decays  into  nitrogen-14 through beta decay .
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on  धरती is  cosmic ray action upon nitrogen in the atmosphere , and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide .
However , open-air nuclear testing between 1955–1980   contributed to this pool .
The  अलग isotopes of कार्बन  do not differ appreciably in their chemical properties .
This is used in chemical and biological research , in a technique called carbon labeling : carbon-14 atoms can be used to replace nonradioactive   carbon , in order to trace chemical and biochemical reactions involving carbon atoms from any given organic compound .
Lightning is a highly  दृश्य  form of energy transfer
Lightning strikes are electrical discharges on a  विशाल स्केल between the माहौल  and an earth-bound object .
They mostly  originate in thunderclouds  and terminate on the ground , called Cloud to Ground ( CG ) lightning .
However , they may also  be  initiated from a very tall grounded object and reach into the clouds .
Although `` a lightning strike '' is commonly used to describe all lightning , it is rather erroneous and a misnomer , as only about 25 % of all lightning events worldwide are CG , the large bulk of lightning events are Intracloud  ( ic ) or  Cloud to Cloud ( CC ) , where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere .
The scientific  नाम लिये the पूरा प्रक्रम of  a single lightning event is a and it is a very complex , multiple stepped interaction , which is not completely understood .
सबसे  CG flashes only `` strike '' one physical location , referred to as a termination .
The  प्राथमिक conducting  channel , the bright coursing light you may see and call a `` strike '' , is only about 1 inch in diameter , although to our eyes it looks much larger .
They are   miles long , upwards of tens of miles .
और the संपूर्ण फ्लैश , lasts तभी a few भिन्नों of a दूसरी , सबसे of जिससे is नहीं दृश्य to इंसान आँखें .
Thunder is always  उत्पादित  by lightning .
Just like lightning , that deceives our eyes , usually looking larger or closer than it really is , the earth 's atmosphere and our brain 's perception of the  बाहर संसार , ultimately determines  whether it is `` heard '' or not .
Lightning  can  not happen in a vacuum devoid of ions , nor can thunder occur without molecules to vibrate .
Thunder is a physical absolute for every single  फ्लैश of बिजली  .
Contrary to popular belief , a lightning strike  itself is प्रायः  not responsible for multiple deaths or injuries from a single event .
It would be impossible given  the प्राकृतिक tendencies of  a flash , unless people or animals were stacked on top of each other , or they were somehow arranged vertically and part of the flash channel .
When lightning ignites an available fuel source and an explosion occurs , it is the  शॉक  wave or fire causing the injuries , not the strike itself .
Ground  currents , भी  called step potential , of an earth termination is what truly causes most injuries or death to humans and animals .
The near instantaneous rush of  सतह आरोप , induced by the ओवरहेड thundercloud itself , रेस  to the strike point from hundreds to thousands of feet away during discharge .
This current , caused   during each stroke , takes the path of least resistance , which may be ion rich human or animal legs , over poorly conducting earth .
This is why it is best to crouch , with feet close   together , if ever caught in the open during a thunderstorm .
दुर्भाग्यवश , सबसे रिपोर्ट्स do नहीं चित्रण a भेद between the रियल कारण of चोट or मौत , be it the स्ट्राइक itself , a resulting विस्फोट or आग , or प्रायः जिम्मेदार कदम संभावित .
पीटर  F. Kilmartin ( born 1962 ) is the current Attorney General of Rhode Island .
Kilmartin is also a  रिटायर्ड पुलिस कप्तान  and a former member of the Rhode Island House of Representatives .
A couple following  उनके  marriage in the Manti Utah Temple .
sealing is an अध्यादेश ( अनुष्ठान ) performed in latter दिन संतो मंदिरों by a व्यक्ति पकड़कर the sealing प्राधिकार  .
the  purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar relationships , making possible the existence of family relationships throughout eternity .
LDS teachings place great importance on the specific   authority required to perform these sealings .
Church doctrine teaches that this authority , called the Priesthood  , corresponds  to that given to Saint Peter in .
Sealings are  typically  performed as marriages or as sealing of children to parents .
They were performed prior to the death of Joseph Smith  , jr. ( the प्रमुख संस्थापक  of the Latter Day Saint movement ) , and are currently performed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints .
हालांकि कुछ अन्य denominations , ऐसे as the जातियाँ of मसीह , दृश्य sealing as an centuries of स्मिथ 's अभ्यास of बहुवचन विवाह , कुछ do स्टिल perform उन्हें .
The 2000s , pronounced ``   two thousands '' , was a decade that began on January 1 , 2000 , and ended on December 31 , 2009 .
Globalization , which had accelerated after the early 1990s  पतन of  communism , continued to be a force in the 2000s .
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to globalization during the decade , making it possible for people to interact with other people , express ideas , introduce others to different cultures and backgrounds , use goods and services , sell and buy online , research  and learn about  things , along with experiencing the world without having to leave home .
The institutions , linkages and technologies that emerged or were redefined earlier would subsequently in this  दशक लाभ  many countries , in particular China and India .
However , in other parts of the world such progress failed to address ongoing  struggles साथ आधुनिकता  , most notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups .
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the United States , United Kingdom , Spain , Canada and other nations invading  अफगानिस्तान , as खूब as implementing विभिन्न anti-terrorist  measures at home and abroad in what was known as the War on Terror .
The European Union saw further  संयोजन  and expansion throughout much of Europe .
The economic growth  of the 2000s had considerable  environmental consequences , raised demand for diminishing energy resources , and was still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s .
The Gunfight at the O.K . Corral was a gunfight that took place at  परिचय 3:00 p.m. on बुधवार , अक्तूबर  26 , 1881 , in Tombstone , Arizona Territory , and is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West .
The gunfight , believed to have lasted only about thirty seconds , was fought between the outlaw Cowboys Billy Claiborne , Ike and Billy Clanton , and Tom and Frank McLaury , and the opposing town  Marshal Virgil Earp and his brothers  Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and temporary lawman Wyatt , aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil .
आइक clanton और बिली claiborne भागा इससे the लड़ो unharmed , लकिन आइक 's bhai बिली clanton थी मारे , साथ साथ दोनो mclaurys .
Lawmen Virgil and Morgan Earp and Doc Holliday were  wounded .
तभी  Wyatt Earp came through the fight unharmed .
the लड़ो रै आइये to represent a समय in अमरीकी इतिहास जब the frontier थी खोलें दायरा लिये outlaws opposed by विधि प्रवर्तन कि थी स्प्रेड पतला over विशाल territories , leaving कुछ क्षेत्रों unprotected .
The  gunfight  was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what has since been determined to be a largely fictionalized biography , Wyatt Earp : Frontier Marshal , two years after Earp 's death .
Lake retold his story in a 1946 book that director John Ford developed into  the फिल्म my darling  Clementine .
बाद the फिल्म gunfight  at the O.K . Corral was released in 1957 , the shootout came to be known by that name .
Since then , the conflict has been portrayed with varying degrees of  सटीकता in numerous  Western films and books .
Despite its name , the gunfight actually occurred in a narrow lot six doors west of the rear entrance  to the O.K .  Corral on Fremont Street , and also in the street .
The two opposing parties were initially only about  अलावा  .
About  तीस गोलियाँ  were fired in thirty seconds .
Ike Clanton filed murder charges against the Earps and Doc Holliday but they were eventually exonerated by a local judge  after a  30-day preliminary hearing and then again by a local grand jury .
On December 28 , 1881 , Virgil Earp was maimed in an assassination attempt  by the  outlaw Cowboys , and on March 18 , 1882 , they assassinated Morgan Earp .
The suspects furnished solid alibis , and newly appointed Deputy U.S . Marshal Wyatt Earp took matters into his own hands during the Earp Vendetta Ride , ironically pursued by county Sheriff Johnny Behan with  warrants for the Earp  's arrest .
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia Interface ) is a compact audio/video interface for transferring uncompressed video data and compressed/uncompressed digital audio data from a HDMI-compliant  device ( `` the source device '' )  to a compatible computer monitor , video projector , digital television , or digital audio device .
hdmi is  a digital replacement for existing analog video standards .
There are a number of HDMI-standard cable  कनेक्टर्स उपलब्धियाँ ,  each of which can be used for any uncompressed TV or PC video format , including standard , enhanced , high definition , and 3D video signals ; up to 8 channels of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a CEC ( Consumer Electronics Control ) connection ; and an Ethernet data connection .
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861 standards , which define video formats and waveforms , transport of compressed , uncompressed , and LPCM audio , auxiliary data , and implementations of the  vesa  EDID .
The CEC allows HDMI devices to control each other when necessary  और allows the  user to operate multiple devices with one remote control handset .
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with the CEA-861 signals used by digital visual interface ( DVI ) , no signal conversion is  जरुरी , nor  is there a loss of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used .
As an  uncompressed  CEA-861 connection , HDMI is independent of the various digital television standards used by individual devices , such as ATSC and DVB , as these are encapsulations of compressed MPEG video streams ( which can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ) .
Production of consumer HDMI  उत्पाद  started in late 2003 .
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is included in the HD ready in-store labeling specification for TV sets for  hdtv ,  formulated by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005 .
HDMI began to appear on consumer HDTV  camcorders  and digital still cameras in 2006 .
as of जनवरी 8 , 2013 , जिससे is टेन सालो बाद the रिलीज of the पहला hdmi specification , over 3 अरब hdmi डिवाइस have shipped चूंकि the लॉन्च of the hdmi मानक  .
Bree Van de Kamp ( née Mason ; also  ज्ञात in the  series as Bree Hodge and Bree Weston ) is a fictional character and one of the four protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives .
She is played by actress Marcia Cross , who has received multiple awards and nominations for her portrayal , including an Emmy Award nomination , three Golden Globe Award  nominations , और  two Screen Actors Guild Awards .
Cross 's portrayal of Bree has been widely  praised  by critics and fans .
Cross originally auditioned  लिये the भूमिका of मरियम ऐलिस यंग  , but series creator Marc Cherry thought she was better suited for the role of Bree .
Dana  delany , जो आखिरकार थी डाल as कैथरीन mayfair , थी originally चुनी लिये the भूमिका लकिन turned it bas , saying it थी too समान to उसके भूमिका in pasadena .
Bree 's main  struggle  throughout the series has been her attempts to maintain a perfect life despite various obstacles such as widowhood , divorce , and alcoholism hindering her .
वो रै महरूम शादीशुदा तीन टाइम्स ; to रेक्स वैन de kamp ( स्टीवन culp ) , orson होज ( काइल maclachlan ) और ट्रिप वेस्टन (  Scott Bakula ) .
See also the Town of  algoma in  Winnebago County , Wisconsin .
See also Algoma (  बहुविकल्पी )  .
Algoma is a city in Kewaunee County in the U.S.  राज्य  of Wisconsin .
The population  थी  3,167 at the 2010 census .
Algoma is part of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical   Area .
The Hangover Part II is a 2011 American comedy film produced by Legendary Pictures and distributed by Warner Bros.  Pictures  .
It is the sequel to 2009 's The Hangover  और the दूसरी  film in The Hangover franchise .
Todd Phillips directed the film in addition to co-authoring the script with Craig  mazin  , and Scot Armstrong .
The film stars Bradley Cooper , Ed Helms , Zach Galifianakis , Ken  jeong , जेफरी tambor  , Justin Bartha and Paul Giamatti .
The Hangover Part II tells the story of Phil , Stu , Alan , and Doug as they  travel to  Thailand for Stu 's wedding .
After the bachelor party in Las Vegas , Stu takes no chances and   opts for a safe , subdued pre-wedding brunch .
However , things do not go as planned , resulting in another bad hangover with  no  memories of the previous night .
Development of The  hangover  Part II began in April 2009 , two months before The Hangover was released .
the प्रिंसिपल अभिनेताओं यहूद डाल in कूच 2010 to reprise उनके भूमिकाएँ इससे the पहला फिल्मी .
Production began in October 2010 , in Ontario , California   , before moving on location in Thailand .
The film was released on May 26 ,  2011 और , despite receiving ज़्यादातर ऋणात्मक  reviews from critics , it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its theatrical run .
A third film is  नियत  for on May 24 , 2013 .
Young Man Among Roses , portrait miniature by Nicholas  hilliard , 1588  , V & A .
Believed to be the  अर्ल  of Essex
The Ditchley  पोर्ट्रेट  of Elizabeth I by the foreign Marcus Gheeraerts the Younger , c.1592
The English Renaissance was a cultural and artistic movement in England dating from the late 15th and  early  16th centuries to the early 17th century .
It is associated with  the  pan-European Renaissance that is usually regarded as beginning in Italy in the late 14th century .
Like most of northern Europe , England saw little of these developments until more   than a century later .
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken , as a convenience , to be 1485 , when the Battle of  bosworth फ़ील्ड ended the युद्धों  of the Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty .
पुनर्जागरण  style and ideas , however , were slow in penetrating England , and the Elizabethan era in the second half of the 16th century is usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance .
एलिज़ाबेथ ऐन bloomer वारेन `` बेट्टी '' घाट ( अप्रैल 8 , 1918 – जुलाई 8 , 2011 ) , थी पहला महिला of the संयुक्त राज्य इससे 1974 to 1977 दौरान the प्रेसिडेंसी of उसके husband जेराल्ड घाट .
As First Lady , she was active in social policy and created precedents as a politically active   presidential wife .
Throughout her  husband 's पद in दफ्तर , वो कायम ऊँची स्वीकृति दरजा despite विपक्ष इससे कुछ रूढ़िवादी republicans जो objected to उसके अधिक मॉडरेट और उदार स्थितियाँ on सोशल मुद्दे .
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer awareness following her 1974 mastectomy and was a passionate supporter of , and  activist  for , the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ) .
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement , she gained fame as one of the most candid first ladies in history , commenting on every hot-button issue of the time , including   feminism , equal pay , the ERA , sex , drugs , abortion , and gun control .
वो भी उठाया जागरूकता of व्यसन जब वो घोषित उसके long-running बैटल साथ alcoholism in the 1970s .
Following her  श्वेत हाउस  years , she continued to lobby for the ERA and remained active in the feminist movement .
She was the founder , and served as the first chair of the board of directors , of the Betty Ford Center for substance abuse and addiction and is a recipient of the Congressional Gold Medal (  co-presentation  with her husband , Gerald R. Ford , October 21 , 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone , presented 1991 , by George H. W. Bush ) .
Platelet  endothelial कोशिका adhesion अणु  ( PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a protein that in human is encoded by the PECAM1 gene found on chromosome 17 .
pecam-1  plays a key role in removing aged neutrophils from the body .
Jessica  rafalowski  , Miss Florida USA 2008
Jenna Edwards ,  मिस  Florida USA 2007
मेलिसा witek  , Miss Florida USA 2005
Kristen Berset , Miss  फ्लोरिडा  USA 2004
The  मिस फ्लोरिडा  USA competition is the pageant that selects the representative for the state Florida in the Miss USA pageant .
While Florida has  महरूम कामयाब  in terms of runners-up , finalists and semi-finalists , the state has never won the Miss USA pageant , although Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe .
Florida 's best results were during the  mid-1960s  to mid-1970s .
Their most recent  फाइनलिस्ट  was Lissette Garcia who placed in the top 16 in 2011 .
दो पूर्व मिस फ्लोरिडा टीन यूएसए titleholders have जीती इस प्रतियोगिता , और तीन titleholders have भी competed at मिस अमेरिका  .
The current titleholder   is Michelle Aguirre of Hialeah .
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain that became  ज्ञात as इंग्लैण्ड , स्थायी इससे  the end of Roman occupation and establishment of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror .
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring to the Germanic peoples who came to Britain during the 5th and 6th centuries , including  कोण ,  Saxons , Frisii , and Jutes .
The term also refers to the language spoken at the time in England , which is now called Old English , and to the culture of the era , which has long attracted  popular and  scholarly attention .
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy , the kingdoms  of  Northumbria , Mercia , East Anglia , Essex , Kent , Sussex , and Wessex .
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed  Anglo-Saxon  paganism during the early period , but converted to Christianity during the 7th century .
Paganism had a final stronghold in a period of Mercian hegemony  दौरान the 640s  , ending with the death of Penda of Mercia in 655 .
Facing the threat of Viking invasions , the House of Wessex became  प्रबल  during the 9th century , under the rule of Alfred the Great .
During the 10th century , the individual kingdoms unified under the rule of Wessex into the Kingdom of England , which stood opposed to the Danelaw , the Viking kingdoms  established from the 9th  century in the north and east of England .
The Kingdom of England fell in the  Viking invasion from  Denmark in 1013 and was ruled by the House of Denmark until 1042 , when the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored .
The last Anglo-Saxon king , Harold  godwinson , थी  killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings .
Lighting a traditional red brick  जॉन  Ross Jr kiln
Smoked salmon is a preparation of salmon , typically a fillet that has been cured and  hot or  cold smoked .
Due to its  मध्यम  high price , smoked salmon is considered a delicacy .
Although the term  lox  is sometimes applied to smoked salmon , they are different products .
View of defibrillator electrode   position and placement .
Defibrillation is a common treatment for life-threatening cardiac dysrhythmias , ventricular  fibrillation  , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical   energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator .
इस depolarizes a नाजुक द्रव्यमान of the दिल मांसपेशी , terminates the dysrhythmia , और allows सामान्य sinus लय to be reestablished by the देह 's प्राकृतिक pacemaker , in the sinoatrial नोड of the दिल .
Defibrillators can be external , transvenous , or implanted ,  depending on the प्रकार of यंत्र  used or needed .
Some external units ,  ज्ञात as स्वचालित  external defibrillators ( AEDs ) , automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms , meaning that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
gabrielle `` कोको '' bonheur चैनल ( अगस्त 19 , 1883 – जनवरी 10 , 1971 ) थी a फ्रेंच फ़ैशन पंक्तियां और संस्थापक of the चैनल  brand .
She was the only fashion designer to appear on Time magazine 's list of the  100 most  influential people of the 20th century .
साथ साथ पॉल poiret , चैनल थी credited साथ liberating महिलाओं इससे the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' और popularizing the स्वीकृति of a sportive , कैज़ुअल चिक as the feminine मानक in the post- संसार  War I era .
A prolific fashion creator , Chanel 's influence extended beyond  couture कपडे  .
Her design aesthetic was realized in  आभूषण , हैंडबैग  , and fragrance .
Her signature scent , Chanel No . 5 , has become an iconic  उत्पाद  .
Chanel was known  लिये उसके lifelong determination , महत्वाकांक्षा और उर्जा जिससे वो लागू to उसके पेशेवर और सोशल जीवन .
She achieved both success as a businesswoman and social  prominence  thanks to the connections she made through her work .
These included many artists and craftspeople  to  whom she became a patron .
However , Chanel 's highly  प्रतिस्पर्धी , opportunistic व्यक्तित्व led उसके to मेक questionable जीवन चुनाव जिससे have उत्पन्न विवाद around उसके प्रतिष्ठा , विशेषकर उसके आचरण दौरान the जर्मनी occupation of फ़्रांस in संसार युद्ध ii .
Allied Mills flour mill on the  बैंको of the मैनचेस्टर  Ship Canal
A  gristmill ( भी  : grist mill , corn mill or flour mill ) grinds grain into flour .
The term can refer to both   the grinding mechanism and the building that holds it .
रोमानिया  ( ; dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country located at the intersection of Central and Southeastern Europe , bordering on the Black Sea .
Romania shares a border with Hungary and Serbia to the west , Ukraine and Moldova to the northeast and east , and Bulgaria to the   south .
At , Romania is the eighth largest country of the European Union by area , and has the seventh  largest जनसांख्यिकी of the यूरोपीय  Union with more than 19 million people .
Its  पूंजी और biggest नगर is बुखारेस्ट , the 11th largest नगर in the eu .
The United  principalities उभरा  when the territories of Moldavia and Wallachia were united under Prince Alexander Ioan Cuza in 1859 .
In 1866 Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen was called to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the Romanian Principate  और in  1881 he was finally crowned as King Carol I the first monarch of the Kingdom of Romania .
Independence  इससे  the Ottoman Empire was declared on 9 May 1877 , and was internationally recognized the following year .
At the end of World War I , Transylvania , Bukovina and  bessarabia  united with the Kingdom of Romania .
संसार युद्ध ii दिया कारण to the वृद्धि of a सैन्य तानाशाही in रोमानिया अंतर्गत फासिस्ट सामान्य आयन antonescu , जो chose to लड़ो on the पक्ष of the अक्ष शक्तियां इससे 1941 to 1944  .
After his removal , Romania switched sides in 1944 and  joined  the Allies .
By the end of the war , some formerly Romanian northeastern territories were occupied   by the Soviet Union , with Red Army units stationed on Romanian soil .
In 1947 Romania forcibly became a People 's Republic ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of the Warsaw  Pact  .
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became General Secretary of the Romanian Communist Party , and the harsh austerity measures , political repression , and cult of personality he implemented  led to the समाजवादी गणतंत्र of रोमानिया ( 1965-1989  ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc .
आखिरकार उसके सत्तावादी  government was toppled in December 1989 during the Romanian Revolution of 1989 .
With the fall of  the आयरन पर्दा , रोमानिया began इसके परिवर्तन towards लोकतंत्र और a पूंजीवादी मार्केट अर्थव्यवस्था .
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems  and  living-standards decline , extensive reforms fostered economic recovery .
As of 2010 , Romania is an upper-middle-income country with a high  human  development index .
Romania joined NATO on 29 March 2004 , and the European Union on 1  जनवरी  2007 .
It is also a member of the : Latin Union , Francophonie , OSCE ,  wto ,  BSEC , United Nations , etc .
Today , Romania is  a  unitary semi-presidential republic , in which the executive branch consists of the President and the Government .
`` Ancient ''  redirects  here .
For  अन्य  uses , see Antiquity ( disambiguation ) .
The times before writing belong  either to protohistory  or to prehistory .
Khafre 's  पिरामिड  ( 4th dynasty ) and Great Sphinx of Giza ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the study of the written past from the beginning of recorded human  इतिहास  to the Early Middle Ages .
The span of recorded history is roughly 5,000 years , with Cuneiform script , the oldest   discovered form of coherent writing , from the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC .
This is the beginning of history , as opposed to prehistory  ,  according to the definition used by most historians .
The term classical antiquity is often used to refer to history in the  Old  World from the beginning of recorded Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ) .
This roughly  coincides साथ  the traditional date of the founding of Rome in 753 BC , the beginning of the history of ancient Rome , and the beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece .
Although the ending date of ancient history is disputed , some Western scholars use the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 AD , the closure of the Platonic Academy in  529 ad , the मौत of  the emperor Justinian I , the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history .
In India , the period includes the early period of the Middle Kingdoms , and , in China , the time up  to the qin  Dynasty is included .
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of  विटामिन b12  .
physically  it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 , also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal  कामकाज  of the brain and nervous system , and for the formation of blood .
It is one of the eight B  विटामिन  .
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human  body ,  especially affecting DNA synthesis and regulation , but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither fungi , plants , nor animals are capable of   producing vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and  आर्किया have the एंजाइमों जरूरी लिये इसके संश्लेषण , हालांकि अनेक भोजन हैं a प्राकृतिक सोर्स of b12 क्युकी of बैक्टीरियल symbiosis .
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced  industrially तभी through बैक्टीरियल fermentation-synthesis  .
Vitamin B12 consists   of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ) , all of which have vitamin activity .
It contains the biochemically rare  तत्व  cobalt .
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin ) , but conversion between different forms of the vitamin can be  संपन्नता  in the human body .
A common semi-synthetic form of the vitamin , cyanocobalamin , does not occur in nature , but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and   supplements , and as a food additive , because of its stability and lower production cost .
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and  adenosylcobalamin  , leaving behind the cyanide , albeit in minimal concentration .
More recently ,  hydroxocobalamin  , methylcobalamin , and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive pharmacological products and food supplements .
The extra  यूटिलिटी of ये  is currently debated .
विटामिन b12 थी  discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia , which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12 ,   so a lack of intrinsic factor , as seen in pernicious anemia , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have  since  been elucidated .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization ,  characterised  by an autocratic form of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic , which preceded it , had been  destabilized  through a series of civil wars .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire , including Julius Caesar 's appointment  as  perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ) .
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace   '' ) .
It reached its  महानतम  expanse during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ) .
In the 3rd century , the Empire underwent a crisis that threatened its existence , but was reunified and stabilized under the  emperors  Aurelian and Diocletian .
Christians rose to power  in  the 4th century , during which time a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East .
After the  पतन of सेंट्रल सरकारी in the वेस्ट in  the 5th century , the eastern half continued as what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development  of  language , religion , architecture , philosophy , law , and forms of government in the territory it governed , particularly Europe , and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world .
Total body surface area ( TBSA ) is an assessment measure of burns of the skin   .
In adults , the ``  नियम  of nines '' is used to determine the total percentage of area burned for each major section of the body .
In some cases , the burns may cover more than one body part , or may not fully cover such a part ; in these cases , burns are measured by using the  casualty  's palm as a reference point for 1 % of the body .
For children  और infants , the  Lund-Browder chart is used to assess the burned body surface area .
Different percentages are used because the ratio of the combined surface area of the head and neck to the surface area of the  limbs  is typically larger in children than that of an adult .
ठेठ मान लिये आम समूह of इंसानो follow .
( Due to rounding , values   may not add to 100 % . )
World infant mortality rates by five years averages   in 2008 .
इस  is a list of countries by infant mortality rate .
Jonah Kirsten Sorrentino ( born June 26 , 1975 ) , better known by his  स्टेज नाम  KJ-52 , is a Christian rapper from Tampa , Florida .
The `` KJ '' part of his   name refers to his old rap alias , `` King J. Mac , '' a name which he later described in one of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy . ''
`` 52 '' , which is pronounced `` five two '' , not `` fifty-two '' , is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with five loaves and two fish , which is also sung about in his song `` Push Up '' from  The  Yearbook and in the `` KJ Five Two '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two .
He was awarded the Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the Year for ``  never dekh दूर  '' and Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year at the GMA Dove Awards of 2007 .
On July 28 , 2009 , KJ-52 released `` End of My  रस्सी ''  , which is the first single for his album Five-Two Television .
His song `` Dear Slim '' is based on Eminem 's song `` Stan `` and is a sort of personal  संदेश इससे kj-52 to  Eminem .
The degree symbol  ( ° ) is a  typographical symbol that is used , among other things , to represent degrees of arc ( e.g . in geographic coordinate systems ) , hours ( in the medical field ) , or degrees of temperature .
The symbol  consists  of a small raised circle , historically a zero glyph .
In Unicode it is encoded at  .
This is a list of roots ,  प्रत्यय  , and prefixes used in medical terminology , their meanings , and their etymology .
वहीँ हैं a few नियम जब using चिकित्सा जड़ें .
Firstly , prefixes and suffixes , primarily in Greek , but also in  Latin , have  a droppable -o- .
As a  सामान्य  rule , this -o- almost always acts as a joint-stem to connect two consonantal roots , e.g . arthr- + -o- + logy = arthrology .
But generally , the -o- is dropped when connecting to a  vowel-stem ; e.g .  arthr- + itis = arthritis , instead of arthr-o-itis .
Secondly , medical roots generally   go together according to language : Greek prefixes go with Greek suffixes and Latin prefixes with Latin suffixes .
Although international scientific vocabulary is not stringent about segregating combining forms of different languages , it is  advisable जब  coining new words not to mix different lingual roots .
Stomach cancer , or gastric cancer , refers to cancer arising from any part of  the  stomach .
Stomach cancer causes about   800,000 deaths worldwide per year .
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % )  क्युकी  most patients present with advanced disease .
Sara Lynn Evans ( born February 5 , 1971 ) is an American  country singer and  songwriter .
For her entire career , she has been signed to RCA Records Nashville   .
Evans ' debut , Three Chords and the Truth ,  किया नहीं  produce a Top 40 hit on the Hot Country Songs charts .
She followed this up with No Place That Far ( 1998 ) ,   Born to Fly ( 2000 ) , Restless ( 2003 ) and Real Fine Place ( 2005 ) .
No Place That Far received a gold  प्रमाणन इससे the  Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) , while the other three albums all were certified platinum .
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No Place That Far `` , `` Born to Fly `` , `` Suds in the Bucket `` and `` A Real Fine Place to Start `` , plus the top 10 hits `` I Could Not Ask for More `` ( a cover of the Edwin McCain song ) , `` I Keep Looking `` ,  `` पूर्ण `` और ``  Cheatin ' `` .
Her 2007 Greatest Hits included the top 15 hits `` You 'll Always Be My Baby `` and `` As  if  `` .
Stronger ( 2011  )  included her fifth number 1 hit , `` A Little Bit Stronger `` , which was co-written by Hillary Scott of Lady Antebellum .
Evans has also won one award each from  बिलबोर्ड , the अकादमी of  Country Music , Country Music Association , Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award .
The world 's principal religions and spiritual traditions may be classified into a  छोटी  number of major groups , although this is by no means a uniform practice .
This theory began in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the relative  स्तर  of civility in societies .
berliners  watching a C-54 land at Tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12 May 1949 ) was one of the first major international   crises of the Cold War .
During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany , the Soviet Union  अवरोधित the  Western Allies ' railway , road , and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Allied control .
उनके उद्देश्य थी to फ़ोर्स the पश्चिमी शक्तियां to allow the सोवियत मण्डल to प्रारंभ supplying बर्लिन साथ खाना और ईंधन , thereby giving the soviets व्यावहारिक कंट्रोल over the संपूर्ण नगर .
In response , the Western Allies organized the Berlin airlift to carry  आपूर्तियाँ to  the people in West Berlin .
Aircrews from the United States Air Force , the British Royal Air Force , the Royal Australian Air Force , the Royal Canadian Air Force , the Royal New   Zealand Air Force , and the South African Air Force flew over 200,000 flights in one year , providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as fuel and food to the Berliners .
By the spring of 1949 , the effort was clearly succeeding   and , by April , the airlift was delivering more cargo than had previously been transported into the city by rail .
The success of the  बर्लिन एयरलिफ्ट  brought embarrassment to the Soviets who had refused to believe it could make a difference .
The blockade was lifted in May 1949 and resulted in the creation of two  पृथक  German states .
The Federal Republic of  जर्मनी ( वेस्ट जर्मनी  ) and the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) split up Berlin .
In remembrance of the airlift ,  तीन एयरपोर्ट in the  former western zones of the city served as the primary gateways to Germany for another fifty years .
the  euro sign ; logotype and handwritten .
The euro  चिह्न  is the currency sign used for the euro , the official currency of the Eurozone in the European Union ( EU ) .
The design was presented  to the  public by the European Commission on 12 December 1996 .
The international three-letter code ( according to  आईएसओ  standard ISO 4217 ) for the euro is EUR .
In Unicode it is encoded   at .
In English  , the  sign precedes the value .
In some styleguides , but not others , the euro  चिह्न  is unspaced .
Mate ( , ; sometimes also spelled maté ) , also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ) , is a traditional South American infused drink , particularly in  अर्जेंटीना , उरुग्वे , पैराग्वे  and the southern states of Brazil and to a lesser degree in south of Chile , the Bolivian Chaco , Syria and Lebanon .
It is prepared  इससे steeping सूखी पत्ते of yerba mate ( llex paraguariensis , ज्ञात in पुर्तगाली as erva-mate ) in hot जल .
Mate is served with a metal straw from a shared hollow  calabash करेले  .
The straw is called a bombilla in some Latin American   countries , a bomba in Portuguese , and a bombija or , more generally , a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic .
The straw is  traditionally  made of silver .
Modern , commercially available straws are typically made of nickel silver , called Alpaca ; stainless steel , or  hollow-stemmed  cane .
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil , it has the specific name of cuia , or  भी cabaça ( the नाम लिये indigenous-influenced  calabash gourds in other regions of Brazil , still used for general food and drink in remote regions ) .
Even if the water is supplied from a modern thermos , the infusion is traditionally drunk from   mates or cuias .
As with other brewed herbs , yerba mate leaves  हैं  dried , chopped , and ground into a powdery mixture called yerba .
The bombilla acts as both a straw and a sieve  .
The  submerged समाप्त is flared , साथ छोटी छेद or स्लॉट कि allow the brewed द्रव in , लकिन ब्लाक the चंकी पदार्थ कि makes up much of the मिश्रण .
A modern bombilla design uses a straight tube with holes , or spring sleeve  to act  as a sieve .
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have been on the market in Argentina , Paraguay and Uruguay for many years under such trade names as `` Taragüí Vitality '' in Argentina , `` Pajarito '' and ``  Kurupí '' in Paraguay , and in Brazil under the name ``  Mate Leão '' .
This is considered   a completely different drink .
It is never   drunk from cuias or called chimarrão , nor is it associated with the gaucho/gaúcho culture .
The automotive industry is a term that covers a wide range of companies and organisations involved in the design , development  ,  manufacture , marketing , and selling of motor vehicles , towed vehicles , motorcycles and mopeds .
It is one of the world 's most important economic sectors  by  revenue .
The term automotive industry usually does not include industries dedicated to the maintenance of automobiles following delivery to the end-user , such as repair shops and  मोटर ईंधन भरना स्टेशन  .
The  पद  automotive was created from Greek autos ( self ) , and Latin motivus ( of motion ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle .
This term was proposed  by sae सदस्य  Elmer Sperry .
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista , Jr. ( born January 18 , 1969 ) , is an  American mixed  martial artist , bodybuilder , actor , and former professional wrestler best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment competing under the ring name Batista .
In WWE , he became a six-time world champion , winning the World Heavyweight Championship four times , and the WWE Championship  दो टाइम्स  .
He is the longest-reigning   World Heavyweight Champion in WWE history .
In addition to these championships , Batista has won the World Tag Team Championship three times ( twice with Ric Flair and once with John Cena ) and the WWE Tag Team   Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ) .
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and went on to headline WrestleMania  21 ,  one of the top five highest-grossing pay-per-view events in pro wrestling history .
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant , Batista signed  a अनुबंध  with the WWF in 2000 and was sent to its developmental territory , Ohio Valley Wrestling ( OVW ) , where he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship .
In August 2012 , Bautista signed a  अनुबंध  with Classic Entertainment & Sports to fight in mixed martial arts .
He won his MMA  डेब्यू on  October 6 , 2012 , defeating Vince Lucero via TKO in the first round .
हेनरी T. थामस sampson , jr. ( born in जैक्सन , मिसिसिपी in 1934 ) is an african-american आविष्कारक  .
He graduated  इससे ऊँची स्कूल in 1951  from Lanier High School in Jackson , Mississippi .
He then attended Morehouse College for a couple of years before   transferring to Purdue University where he became a member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity .
He received a  स्नातक 's  degree in science from Purdue University in 1956 .
He graduated with an  ms उपाधि  in engineering from the University of California , Los Angeles in 1961 .
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear  अभियान्त्रिकी  from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1965 , and his PhD in 1967 .
He is the  पहला अफ़्रीकी  American to earn a Ph.D.in Nuclear Engineering in the United States .
Some of his accomplishments  include being a member  of the United States Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 and earning an Atomic Energy Commission honor between 1964 and 1967 .
Later he was awarded the Black Image Award from Aerospace  निगम in 1982  .
He was awarded the Blacks in  अभियान्त्रिकी , लागू विज्ञान  Award , and prize for education , by the Los Angeles Council of Black Professional Engineers in 1983 .
In June 2007 , Sampson was married to Laura Howzell Young  in St. Thomas ,  U.S. Virgin Islands .
Young-Sampson is a  प्राध्यापक  in the College of Education at California State University San Bernardino .
Robert Lane Gibbs ( born March 29 , 1971 ) is a senior campaign  adviser  for US President Barack Obama .
Previously , he was the 28th   White House Press Secretary .
Gibbs was the communications director for then- U.S . Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential   campaign .
Gibbs , who has worked with Obama since 2004 , was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in Senate campaigns , having  served as communications director for the Democratic  Senatorial Campaign Committee and for four individual Senate campaigns , including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998 .
Gibbs  थी भी the दबायें सचिव of प्रतिनिधि bob etheridge .
On November 22 , 2008 , Gibbs was announced as the press  सचिव of  the Obama administration .
He assumed the role  of press  secretary on January 20 , 2009 , and gave his first official briefing on January 22 .
On January 5 , 2011 , Gibbs announced that he would leave   the White House to become an outside adviser to the administration .
He left on February 11 ,   2011 .
On February 12 ,  2013 , it थी  announced that Gibbs had been hired as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC .
His first  रूप थी  on the same night prior to the 2013 State Of The Union Address .
अरमांडो pérez ( born जनवरी 15 ,  1981 ) , better known by his stage name Pitbull , is an American rapper , songwriter , and record producer .
His first recorded  प्रदर्शन थी  from the Lil Jon album Kings of Crunk in 2002 .
In  2004 ,  he released his debut album titled M.I.A.M.I . ( short for Money Is A Major Issue ) under TVT Records .
Since then , he has released three other albums under the label : El Mariel in 2006 , The  boatlift  in 2007 , and Planet Pit in 2011 .
He released Rebelution in 2009 , which included singles `` I Know  तुम want me ( calle  Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy `` .
The latter peaked at No . 30 on the Hot 100 and No . 11 on the Hot Rap Tracks charts while ``  i जान तुम want me '' peaked at no . 2 on  the Hot 100 and peaked within the top ten spots of charts in the UK , Canada , Italy , and the Netherlands .
The song reached No . 1 in France and the  यूरोपीय hot 100 on the सप्ताह  ending August 29 , 2009 according to Billboard magazine .
He later signed with  पोलो  Grounds Music through Sony Music and created his own label Mr. 305 Inc .
Another single from Rebelution  थी `` होटल  Room Service `` , which peaked at No . 8 on the Hot 100 .
Rebelution went on to sell over 7.5 million   worldwide digital singles and albums combined .
Nevertheless , he dropped a smash called `` Give Me Everything '' which reached # 1 worldwide , and featured artists Ne-yo , Nayer , and   Afrojack .
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit songs , like Tik Tok , Scream & Shout , Lo Hecho  Esta Hecho , Bad , Papi , Diamonds , How Low , Tonight  ( I 'm Lovin ' You ) , Video Phone , Over To You Now and Bumpy Ride .
Pérez is also the host of his  own  Spanish-language program on the cable channel Mun2 titled La Esquina ( Spanish for The Corner ) .
in  2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' Combs co-founded Bad Boy Latino , a subsidiary of Combs ' Bad Boy Records label .
It primarily  focuses  on Latin hip hop , Latin soul , Latin pop and other Tropical music , and has offices in New York and Miami , Florida .
Along  with  co-founding it , Pérez currently heads the A & R division of the label .
Pérez has become a product endorser , representing alongside Drake , Rihanna , and Trey Songz the “So Kodak” campaign for the Kodak brand and embarking on a partnership with the soft drink giant Dr  Pepper as  part of the campaign “ Vida 23 ” for which he recorded the song specifically featured on his album Armando .
Pitbull also announced he has become the spokesperson for Voli Vodka , in which he holds a majority equity stake , and  budweiser  has chosen Pitbull to promote its Bud Light line of beer .
The commercials currently highlight Pitbull dancing and gyrating on stage holding up a bottle of  कली लाइट  .
Pitbull has also purchased an equity  हिस्सेदारी  in Miami Subs Pizza and Grill .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ) , also known as All Hallows ' Eve , is a yearly celebration observed  in a  number of countries on October 31 , the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast  originally  influenced by western European harvest festivals , and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and  रै solely ईसाई  roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) ,  उपस्थित वेशभूषा पार्टियों ,  carving pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , apple bobbing , visiting haunted attractions , playing pranks , telling scary stories , and watching horror films .
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas using one  's देह और प्रॉपर्टी to  anyone who is willing to receive them .
The term  स्वतंत्रता  of expression is sometimes used synonymously , but includes any act of seeking , receiving and imparting information or ideas , regardless of the medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country  और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं , as साथ मानहानि ,  slander , obscenity , sedition ( including , for example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation , revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights and  recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that  `` [ e ] veryone  shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek , receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in writing or in print , in the form of art , or through any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes  on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special  duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to certain restrictions '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause   religious offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
Sydney Harbour   from the air , showing the Opera House , the CBD , Circular Quay , the Bridge , the Parramatta River , North Sydney and Kirribilli in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries rail , vehicular , bicycle and pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central business district ( CBD  ) और  the North Shore .
The dramatic view of the bridge , the harbour , and the nearby Sydney Opera House is   an iconic image of Sydney , New South Wales , and Australia .
The  सेतु is nicknamed  `` The Coathanger '' because of its arch-based design .
Under the directions of Dr J.J.C . Bradfield of the NSW Department of Public Works , the bridge was designed and built by British firm  dorman  Long and Co Ltd of Middlesbrough and opened in 1932 .
the सेतु 's डिज़ाइन थी बहकावे by the नरक फाटक सेतु in नई यॉर्क .
It was the world 's widest long-span bridge , at 48.8 meters ( 160 feet ) wide , until construction of the new Port Mann  सेतु in वैंकूवर .
It is also the fifth longest spanning-arch bridge in the world , and it  is the tallest  steel arch bridge , measuring from top to water level .
जबतक  1967 the Harbour Bridge was Sydney 's tallest structure .
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic   hotspot located near the namesake Hawaiian Islands , in the northern Pacific Ocean .
एक of the सबसे well-known और heavily पढ़ाई हॉटस्पॉट in the संसार , the हवाई plume is जिम्मेदार लिये the सृष्टि of the हवाई – सम्राट seamount कड़ी , an over 5,800 किलोमीटर ( 3,600 mi ) long कड़ी of ज्वालामुखी , चार of जिससे हैं क्रियाशील , दो of जिससे हैं dormant , और अधिक than 123 of जिससे हैं विलुप्त , अनेक having चूंकि महरूम मैदान beneath the  waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls .
The  कड़ी extends  from south of the island of Hawaii to the edge of the Aleutian Trench , near the eastern edge of Russia .
While most volcanoes are created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries , the Hawaii hotspot is located far from nearby plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot theory , first proposed in 1963 by John Tuzo Wilson , proposes that a single , fixed mantle plume builds volcanoes that then , cut off from their source by the  गति of the प्रशांत  Plate , become increasingly inactive and eventually erode below sea level over millions of years .
According to this theory , the  nearly 60° बेंड separating  the Emperor and Hawaiian segments of the chain was caused by a sudden shift in the movement of the Pacific Plate .
In 2003 , fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile hotspot theory , suggesting that hotspots are mobile , not fixed , and that the 47 million year old bend was caused by a shift in  the  hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's .
Ancient Hawaiians were the first to recognize the increasing age and  weathered  state of the volcanoes to the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands .
The volatile state of the Hawaiian   volcanoes and their constant battle with the sea was a major element in Hawaiian mythology , embodied in Pele , the deity of volcanoes .
After the arrival of Europeans  on the  island , in 1880-1881 James Dwight Dana directed the first formal geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics , confirming the relationship long observed by the natives .
1912 marked the founding of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory by volcanologist Thomas Jaggar , initiating continuous  scientific observation  of the islands .
In the 1970s , a mapping project was initiated to gain more  सूचना परिचय  the complex geology of Hawaii 's seafloor .
The hotspot has since  महरूम tomographically  imaged , showing it to be wide and up to deep , and olivine and garnet -based studies have shown its magma chamber is approximately .
In its at least 85 million years of activity the hotspot has produced an  अनुमानित  of rock .
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time , causing the amount of time each individual volcano is active to decrease , from 18 million years for the 76 million year old  डेट्रॉयट seamount  , to just under 900,000 for the one million year-old Kohala ; on the other hand , eruptive volume has increased from per year to about .
Overall , this has caused a trend towards more active but quickly-silenced  , closely spaced volcanoes—whereas volcanoes  on the near side of the hotspot overlap each other ( forming such superstructures as Hawaii island and the ancient Maui Nui ) , the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart .
David Palmer , director of the show , announced that the season 4 finale is the series finale  क्युकी निकलोडियन  canceled the show .
Petitions are being  हस्ताक्षरित to लाओ  the show for a fifth season .
the दिखाएँ airs on treehouse tv कनाडा और उपनाम jr. ( formerly noggin ) .
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American  film  directed by Martin Davidson with the screenplay written by the director and Arlene Davidson , based on the novel by P. F. Kluge .
It was marketed with the tagline ``  विद्रोही  .
रॉकर  .
प्रेमी  .
आइडल  .
Vanished  .  ''
Osteonecrosis of the jaw ( ONJ ) is a severe bone disease that affects the  maxilla  and the mandible .
Various forms of ONJ have been described over the last 160 years , and a  क्रमांक  of causes have been suggested in the literature .
Osteonecrosis of the jaws associated with bisphosphonate  चिकित्सा , जरूरी by  some cancer treatment regimens , has been identified and defined as a pathological entity since 2003 .
The possible risk from lower oral doses of bisphosphonates , taken by patients to  prevent  or treat osteoporosis , remains uncertain .
Various treatment options have been explored , however severe cases of ONJ still  आवश्यकता सर्जिकल  removal of the affected bone .
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and possible sites of dental infection are required to help prevent the  कंडीशन , विशेषकर if bisphosphonate  therapy is considered .
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball team based in Boston , Massachusetts , and a member of Major League Baseball 's American   League Eastern Division .
Founded in as one of  the  American League 's eight charter franchises , the Red Sox 's home ballpark has been Fenway Park since .
The `` Red Sox '' name was chosen by the team owner , John I. Taylor , around , following previous Boston teams that had been known as  the `` रेड  Stockings `` .
They have played in 11 World Series ,  जीतना 7 .
Boston was a dominant team  in the new  league , defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates in the first World Series in and winning four more championships by .
However , they then went into one of the longest championship droughts in baseball history , called by some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged beginning with the Red Sox 's sale of Babe  Ruth to the  rival Yankees two years after their world championship in 1918 , an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in .
However , the team 's history during  कि काल थी hardly एक of futility , लकिन थी बल्कि  punctuated with some of the most memorable moments in World Series history , including Enos Slaughter 's `` mad dash `` in , the `` Impossible Dream `` of , Carlton Fisk 's home run in , and Bill Buckner 's error in .
Red Sox history has also been marked  by the team  's intense rivalry with the New York Yankees , arguably the fiercest and most historic in North American professional sports .
The Boston Red Sox are owned by Fenway Sports Group , who also own Liverpool  फ़ुटबॉल क्लबों of  the Premier League in England .
The Red Sox are consistently one of the top MLB teams in average road attendance , while the small capacity  of  Fenway Park prevents them from leading in overall attendance .
From May 15 , 2003 to April 10 , 2013 , the  रेड sox  sold out every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular season ) for a major professional sports record that lasted almost a decade .
Mince pie  भर  with mincemeat
Mincemeat is a mixture of chopped dried fruit , distilled spirits and spices , and sometimes beef  suet , बीफ , or venison  .
Originally , mincemeat always  contained  meat .
Many modern recipes contain beef suet , though  सब्ज़ी  shortening is sometimes used in its place .
Variants of mincemeat are found in Australia , Brittany , Canada , northern Europe , Ireland , South Africa , the United Kingdom and the United  राज्य  .
In  कुछ देशों the पद mincemeat refers to minced or मैदान मांस .
Diana , Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née  स्पेंसर  ; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997 ) was the first wife of Charles , Prince of Wales , the eldest son and heir apparent of Queen Elizabeth II .
She was well known  लिये  her fund-raising work for international charities and as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century .
Her wedding to the Prince  of वेल्स  on 29 July 1981 was held at St Paul 's Cathedral and seen by a global television audience of over 750 million .
While married she bore the titles Princess of Wales , Duchess of Cornwall , Duchess of Rothesay , Countess of  चेस्टर और बैरोनेस  of Renfrew .
The marriage produced two sons , the  princes  William and Harry , who became second and third in line to the British throne .
Diana was born into an aristocratic English family with  royal ancestry  .
She was the fourth child of John  Spencer , 8th  Earl Spencer and his wife Frances , daughter of Maurice Roche , 4th Baron Fermoy .
She became  a  public figure with the announcement of her engagement .
वो भी प्राप्त मान्यता लिये उसके दान कार्य और लिये उसके support of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय अभियान to बैन landmines  .
From 1989 , she  थी  the president of the Great Ormond Street Hospital for children , in addition to dozens of other charities .
Diana remained the object of worldwide media scrutiny during and after her marriage , which ended in  तलाक on 28 अगस्त  1996 .
Media attention and public mourning were considerable following her death in a car crash in Paris  on 31 अगस्त  1997 .
Argentina  ,  officially the Argentine Republic ( ) , is the second largest country in both South America and the Latin America region .
The country is a federation of 23 provinces and the autonomous  नगर of buenos  Aires , its capital and largest city .
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by land area and the largest among Spanish-speaking nations by geographical area of 2,780,400 km2 and is the fourth by  जनसांख्यिकी , साथ  over 41 million people .
Argentina is a founding member of the United Nations , Mercosur , the Union of South American Nations , the Organization of Ibero-American States , the World Bank Group and the World  व्यापार संगठन  , and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies .
Argentina is located  in दक्षिण अमेरिका , bordered by चिली to the वेस्ट और दक्षिण , बोलीविया और पैराग्वे to the उत्तर और ब्राज़ील और उरुग्वे to the पूर्वोत्तर .
Argentina claims sovereignty over part of Antarctica , the Falkland Islands ( ) and South Georgia and the South   Sandwich Islands .
Argentina is the successor state of the Viceroyalty of the   Río de la Plata , an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire .
Argentina declared independence during the  अर्जेंटाइन  War of Independence , which was followed by the Argentine Civil Wars during most of the 19th century .
The country faced several military coups and  राजनैतिक अस्थिरता दौरान  the 20th century , along with periodic economic crisis that continue to this day .
A recognized Southern Cone power , and  मध्य  power , Argentina is Latin America 's third-largest economy , with a `` very high '' rating on the Human development index .
Within Latin America , Argentina has the fifth  highest  nominal GDP per capita and the highest in purchasing power terms .
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a `` foundation for future  विकास  due to its market size , levels of foreign direct investment , and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods '' , and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy .
Argentina is the Latin American country with the most Nobel Prizes , for a total of five , all obtained during the second half  of the बीसवीं  century .
The country  रै तीन  Nobel prizes in science and two of peace .
The most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina are concerned with  आयुर्विज्ञान , नाभिकीय  physics , biotechnology , nanotechnology , space and rocket technology and several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities .
The country also has the mega exhibition  बीच  of science , technology , industry and art that are Latin America 's largest .
Hickory is a city in Catawba County  ,  with parts also in Burke County and Caldwell County .
The city 's 2010 estimated  जनसांख्यिकी  is 40,010 .
Hickory is the principal city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA ,  in which the  population at the 2010 Census was 365,497 .
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ) , commonly  abbreviated पालतु , पीट , or the obsolete petp or pet-p , is a thermoplastic  polymer resin of the polyester family and is used in synthetic fibers ; beverage , food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber .
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a source  of confusion because  this substance , PET , does not contain polyethylene .
Thus ,  the वैकल्पिक रूप , बहु ( एथिलीन terephthalate ) , is प्रायः प्रयुक्त in scholarly जर्नल्स लिये the खातिर of सटीकता और स्पष्टता .
Depending on its  प्रसंस्करण  and thermal history , polyethylene terephthalate may exist both as an amorphous ( transparent ) and as a semi-crystalline polymer .
The semicrystalline  सामग्री  might appear transparent ( particle size < 500 nm ) or opaque and white ( particle size up to a few microns ) depending on its crystal structure and particle size .
इसके मोनोमर ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be synthesized by the esterification प्रतिक्रिया between terephthalic एसिड और एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल साथ जल as a byproduct , or by transesterification प्रतिक्रिया between एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल और dimethyl terephthalate साथ methanol as a byproduct  .
बहुलकीकरण is through a polycondensation प्रतिक्रिया of the monomers ( किया तत्काल बाद esterification/transesterification ) साथ जल as the byproduct .
The majority of the world 's PET production is for synthetic fibers ( in excess of 60 % ) , with bottle  उत्पादन हिसाब  for around 30 % of global demand .
In the context  of वस्त्र अनुप्रयोग , पालतु is referred to by इसके आम नाम , `` पॉलिएस्टर , '' whereas the एक्रोनिम `` पालतु '' is generally प्रयुक्त in संबंध to पैकेजिंग .
Polyester makes up about 18 % of world polymer production and is   the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second , respectively .
PET consists of polymerized  इकाई of  the monomer ethylene terephthalate , with repeating C10H8O4 units .
PET is commonly recycled , and has the   number `` 1 '' as its recycling symbol .
Louisiana  थी admitted  to the Union on April 30 , 1812 , and elects senators to Classes 2 and Class 3 .
Its current senators are  डेमोक्रेट  Mary Landrieu and Republican David Vitter .
Black pudding , blood pudding or blood sausage  is a प्रकार  of sausage made by cooking blood or dried blood with a filler until it is thick enough to congeal when cooled .
The dish exists in various cultures from Asia to   Europe and the Americas .
Pig , cattle , sheep , duck , and goat blood can be used depending on different  देशों  .
In Europe and the Americas , typical fillers include meat , fat , suet , bread , cornmeal , sweet potato , onion  , chestnuts , barley ,  and oatmeal .
In Spain , Portugal   and Asia , potato is often replaced by rice .
शेयरधारक  may refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ) , a person , group   , organization , member or system who affects or can be affected by an organization 's actions
Stakeholder , an entity that can be affected by the results of that in  जिससे वे  are said to be stakeholders , i.e. , that in which they have a stake .
Project stakeholder   , a person , group or organization with an interest in a project
Stakeholder  सिद्धान्त  , a theory that identifies and models the groups which are stakeholders of a corporation or project
Stakeholder analysis , the process of identifying those affected by  a  project or event
Stakeholder  ( law ) ,  a third party who temporarily holds money or property while its owner is still being determined
Jack Smight ( March 9  , 1925 - सितंबर  1 , 2003 ) was an American theatre and film director .
Smight was born in Minneapolis  ,  Minnesota and went to school with future actor Peter Graves .
उसके फिल्मी क्रेडिट शामिल the traveling जल्लाद , खरगोश , चलाएं , मीत युगल , मिडवे , हार्पर , विमानक्षेत्र 1975 , फटकार alley और the एमी पुरस्कार -winning एडी , as खूब as अनेक एपीसोड of टेलीविज़न श्रेणी ऐसे as the गोधूलि मण्डल और the अल्फ्रेड  Hitchcock Hour .
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th  cousin और रचित the म्यूज़िक लिये the  film adaption of Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry .
Smight died from cancer in  लॉस  Angeles , California .
Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev ( ; 8 February 1834 – 2 February 1907 O.S . 27 January 1834 – 20  जनवरी 1907 ) थी a रूसी केमिस्ट  and inventor .
He formulated the Periodic Law  , निर्मित उसके  own version of the periodic table of elements , and used it to correct the properties of some already discovered elements and also to predict the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
Modesto ( Spanish for `` modest '' ) , officially the City of Modesto   , is the county seat and largest city of Stanislaus County , California , United States .
With a population of approximately 201,165 at the 2010 census , Modesto   ranks as the 18th largest city in the state of California .
The Modesto Census County Division , which includes   the cities of Ceres and Riverbank , has a population of 312,842 as of 2010 .
Modesto is located in the central valley area of Northern California , 90 miles north of Fresno , 92 miles east of San Francisco , 68 miles south of the state capital of Sacramento , 66 miles  वेस्ट of yosemite नेशनल पार्क , और 24 मील  south of Stockton .
Modesto , a 29-time Tree City USA honoree , is surrounded by rich farmland , lending to a ranking  लिये  the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production .
Led by milk , almonds ,  मुर्गियों , अखरोट , और  corn silage , the county grossed nearly $ 3.1 billion in agricultural production in 2011 .
modesto  was immortalized in the 1973 George Lucas film American Graffiti .
The award winning film captured the spirit of `` cruising '' and  दोस्ती  on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia that included the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs .
Ron Howard , Harrison Ford and Richard  dreyfuss स्ट्रक्चर  in the film .
The  साउंडट्रैक  was a huge success .
Director  जार्ज लुकास is a  native of Modesto , graduating from Downey High School in 1962 .
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011 , which interviews 1,000 participants daily and asks individuals to assess their jobs , finances  , physical  health , emotional state of mind and communities , ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed .
In December 2009 ,   Forbes ranked Modesto 48th out of 100 among `` Best Bang-for-the-Buck Cities '' .
In this ranking , Modesto ranked 8th  in आवास affordability  and travel time but also ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures .
Independence Day , commonly known as the Fourth of July , is a federal holiday in the United States   commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on July 4 , 1776 , declaring independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain .
Independence Day is commonly associated with fireworks , parades , barbecues , carnivals , fairs , picnics , concerts  , baseball games ,  family reunions , and political speeches and ceremonies , in addition to various other public and private events celebrating the history , government , and traditions of the United States .
Independence Day is the  नेशनल दिन  of the United States .
A gender symbol denotes the sex of an organism or characterizes an  एजेंट  by gender .
The two standard gender symbols denoting male ♂ and female ♀ are derived from  astrological  symbols , denoting the classical planets Mars and Venus , respectively .
These symbols have been in use since the Renaissance also denoting elements in alchemy , specifically  the  metals iron and copper .
They were first used to denote the effective gender of plants ( i.e . sex of individual in a given  crossbreed , चूंकि सबसे  plants are hermaphroditic ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751 .
A leasehold estate is an ownership of a temporary right to hold land or property in which a lessee or a tenant holds rights of real property by some form of  शीर्षक इससे a lessor or landlord .
Although a tenant does  थाम अधिकारों to रियल  property , a leasehold estate is typically considered personal property .
leasehold is a  form of land tenure or property tenure where one party buys the right to occupy land or a building for a given length of time .
As lease is   a legal estate , leasehold estate can be bought and sold on the open market .
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright and  thereafter  held for an indeterminate length of time , and also differs from a tenancy where a property is let ( rented ) on a periodic basis such as weekly or monthly .
Until the end of the lease period ( often measured in decades or centuries ; a 99 year lease is quite common ) the leaseholder has  the  right to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner .
Terms of the agreement are contained in a lease ,  जिससे रै तत्व  of contract and property law intertwined .
The term estate for years   may occasionally be used .
This refers to a leasehold estate for any specific period of time ( the word `` years ''  is  misleading ) .
An estate for years  is नहीं  automatically renewed .
Colloquially , `` lease '' and `` leasing `` are often a  formalization of a longer  , specific period as compared with a `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will , terminable or renewable at the end of a short period .
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the World of the Pig Olivia ) is a British-American children 's animated television series   produced by media company Chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books .
It is seen on Nick Jr. in the  us , मिल्कशेक  !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland , and Disney Junior in Latin America and Brazil  ,  Treehouse TV in Canada .
The show has won a silver Parents  ' चुनाव  Award for its positive story lines and characters .
Location of Panama between  प्रशांत ( नीचे  ) and Caribbean ( top ) , with canal at top center
the पनामा  Canal ( ) is a ship canal in Panama that connects the Atlantic Ocean ( via the Caribbean Sea ) to the Pacific Ocean .
The canal cuts across the Isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit  लिये  international maritime trade .
There are locks at each end to lift ships up to Gatun Lake (  ऊपर  sea-level ) .
Gatun Lake was created to reduce the amount of work required  लिये the  canal .
The   current locks are wide .
A third , wider   lane of locks is being built .
France began work on the canal in 1881 , but had to stop because of engineering  समस्याएं और ऊँची  mortality due to disease .
The United States ( US ) later took over the project and took a decade to complete the canal in 1914 , enabling ships to avoid the lengthy   Cape Horn route around the southernmost tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan .
One of the   largest and most difficult engineering projects ever undertaken , the Panama Canal shortcut made it possible for ships to travel between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans in half the time previously required .
The shorter , faster , safer route to the US West  Coast  and to nations in and along the Pacific Ocean allowed those places to become more integrated with the world economy .
During this time , ownership of the territory that is now the Panama Canal was first Colombian , then French , and then American ; the  संयुक्त राज्य समाप्त  the construction .
The canal was  taken  over in 1999 by the Panamanian government , as long planned .
Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 ships when the canal opened in 1914 , to 14,702 vessels in 2008 , the latter  measuring a कुल of 309.6  million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons .
By 2008 , more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the  कनाल , अनेक of उन्हें much larger than the असली planners could have envisioned ; the largest जहाजों कि can पारगमन the कनाल आज हैं पुकारा panamax .
The American   Society of Civil Engineers has named the Panama Canal one of the seven wonders of the modern world .
Benjamin Franklin ( April 17 , 1790 ) was one of the Founding Fathers of the  संयुक्त राज्य  .
A noted polymath , Franklin was a leading author , printer , political theorist , politician , postmaster ,  वैज्ञानिक  , musician , inventor , satirist , civic activist , statesman , and diplomat .
as a वैज्ञानिक , he थी a प्रमुख फिगर in the अमरीकी आत्मज्ञान और the इतिहास of भौतिकी लिये उसके discoveries और theories regarding विद्युत  .
He invented the lightning rod , bifocals , the Franklin stove , a carriage  ओडोमीटर , और the कांच 'armonica  ' .
He facilitated many civic organizations ,   including a fire department and a university .
फ्रैंकलिन अर्जित the शीर्षक of `` the पहला अमरीकी '' लिये उसके जल्दी और indefatigable campaigning लिये औपनिवेशिक एकता ; as an लेखक और प्रवक्ता in लंदन लिये अनेक colonies , तब as the पहला संयुक्त राज्य दूत to फ़्रांस , he सरंचनाओं the उभरते अमरीकी स्वदेश  .
Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift , hard work , education , community spirit , self-governing institutions , and opposition to authoritarianism both political  और  religious , with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment .
In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager  , `` In a  Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its defects , the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat . ''
To Walter Isaacson , this  makes Franklin  `` the most accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become . ''
Franklin , always proud of his working class roots , became a successful newspaper editor and printer in  फिलाडेल्फिया  , the leading city in the colonies .
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of whom published the Pennsylvania Chronicle , a newspaper that was known for its revolutionary sentiments and  आलोचनाओं of the अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य in the अमरीकी  colonies .
he became धनवान प्रकाशन ग़रीब रिचर्ड 's almanack और the पेन्सिलवेनिया गजट .
Franklin gained international renown  as a वैज्ञानिक  for his famous experiments in electricity and for his many inventions , especially the lightning rod .
He played a major role in establishing the University of  पेन्सिलवेनिया  and was elected the first president of the American Philosophical Society .
Franklin became a national hero in America when he spearheaded the  प्रयत्न to have पार्लियामेंट  repeal the unpopular Stamp Act .
An accomplished diplomat , he was widely admired among the French as American  मंत्री to पेरिस और थी a प्रमुख फिगर  in the development of positive Franco-American relations .
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies ,  जिससे सक्रिय  him to set up the first national communications network .
He was active in community affairs , colonial and state politics , as well as national and  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  affairs .
From 1785 to 1788 , he served as governor of  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
toward the समाप्त of उसके जीवन , he freed उसके स्लेव और became एक of the सबसे prominent abolitionists .
His colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement , and status as one of America 's most influential Founding Fathers , have seen Franklin honored on coinage and money ; warships ; the  names of many towns , counties ,  educational institutions , namesakes , and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death , countless cultural references .
Criminal Minds is an American police procedural  टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम  that premiered September 22 , 2005 , on CBS .
The series follows a team of  profilers  from the FBI 's Behavioral Analysis Unit ( BAU ) based in Quantico , Virginia .
the bau is भाग  of the FBI National Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime .
The show   differs from many procedural dramas by focusing on profiling the criminal , rather than the crime itself .
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in association with CBS  Television  Studios ( originally Paramount Network Television then CBS Paramount Network Television ) and ABC Studios ( originally Touchstone Television ) .
CBS  घोषित  in October 2009 that Legacy Interactive would develop a video game based on the show .
The game would require players to examine crime scenes  for clues to  help solve murder mysteries .
The  इंटरैक्टिव पहेली खेल थी released in 2012 , लकिन किया नहीं विशेषता कोई of the आवाज़ें of the दिखाएँ 's डाल , nor थी the डाल शामिल साथ the प्रोजेक्ट .
On March 14 , 2012 , CBS renewed Criminal Minds for an  आठवीं ऋतु , जिससे  premiered on September 26 , 2012 .
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana  , written  by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain .
The song was released as the first single from the group 's third and final  studio album , In Utero  , in 1993 .
It was one of two songs from the album mixed by Scott Litt in order to augment the original  उत्पादन by  producer Steve Albini .
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single  for sale in the  United States , `` Heart-Shaped Box '' received much American radio airplay , reaching number one on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart .
The international release of the single reached  number five on  the UK Singles Chart .
The song 's  म्यूज़िक  video , directed by Anton Corbijn , garnered critical plaudits .
The orbital speed of a body , generally a planet , a natural satellite , an artificial satellite , or a multiple star , is the speed at  जिससे it orbits around  the barycenter of a system , usually around a more massive body .
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed , the average speed as it completes an orbit , or instantaneous orbital speed , the  गति at a particular  point in its orbit .
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be computed from the distance to the central body at that position , and the specific orbital energy ,  which is  independent of position : the kinetic energy is the total energy minus the potential energy .
भूरा  Palace Interior and Atrium
Brown Palace Hotel is the second-oldest operating hotel in Denver , Colorado and is one of the first atrium-style hotel   ever built .
It is now   operated by Quorum Hotels and Resorts .
it थी निर्मित in 1892 , एक साल बाद than the ऑक्सफोर्ड  Hotel .
It was named for its original owner , Henry C.  भूरा  , and was designed with its odd triangular shape by architect Frank Edbrooke .
The hotel is located at 321 17th St , Denver , CO between 17th Street , Broadway and Tremont Street/Pl in downtown Denver   behind the Republic Plaza .
The main entrance  द्वार  is on Tremont Street .
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs , and is currently  the प्रबल उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप in एशिया  , North America , Europe , and Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and  an h.262/mpeg-2 भाग 2 डिकोडर (  e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video  और ऑडियो of  varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ) .
Typically , the data rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5  mbit/s , और the बिट  rate is usually adaptive .
It was  पहला  available for retail around 1997 .
The DVD-Video specification was created by DVD Forum and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for  a शुल्क of $ 5,000  .
The specification is not  सरेआम  available , because every subscriber must sign a non-disclosure agreement .
निश्चित  information in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential .
The nautical mile ( symbol M , NM or nmi ) is a unit of length that is about  एक मिनट  of arc of latitude measured along any meridian , or about one minute of arc of longitude at the equator .
By  अंतरराष्ट्रीय अनुबंध it रै  been set at 1,852 metres exactly ( about 6,076 feet ) .
It is a non- SI unit ( although   accepted for use in the International System of Units by the BIPM ) used especially by navigators in the shipping and aviation industries , and also in polar exploration .
It is commonly used in international law and treaties , especially regarding the limits of  territorial waters  .
It developed from the sea mile and the related  भौगोलिक  mile .
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and air  navigators विश्वव्यापी  because of its convenience when working with charts .
Most nautical charts use the Mercator projection whose scale varies by about a factor of six from the equator to 80°  अक्षांश , so  charts covering large areas can not use a single linear scale .
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a minute of latitude on a chart , so a distance measured with a chart divider can be roughly converted to nautical  miles using the  chart 's latitude scale .
Shippensburg is a borough in  कम्बरलैंड  and Franklin counties in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania .
Settled in 1730 , Shippensburg lies in the Cumberland Valley , 41 miles ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg , and  is  part of the Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area .
In 1900 , 3,228 people lived there ; in 1910 , 3,457 ; and in 1940 , 5,244 people lived  वहीँ .
The population was 5,492 at the  2010  census .
Shippensburg was   incorporated as a borough on January 21 , 1819 .
in  the past , there were furniture factories , engine and pump works , and other industrial works located within the town .
Shippensburg is also the home of The  beistle कम्पनी  , the oldest and largest manufacturer of decorations and party goods , which sells its distinctive honeycomb paper decorations worldwide .
It is also the location of Pague and Fegan , the oldest  लगातार  operated hardware store in Pennsylvania .
In May 2012 , Volvo  निर्माण उपकरण  began a $ 100 million expansion project to bring its American headquarters to Shippensburg .
Shippensburg is also home to Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania , one of 14  विश्वविद्यालयों  of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education .
Yearly the last full week of July , the  shippensburg  Community Fair is held .
Begun in 1958 , the fair bills  itself  as Pennsylvania 's largest bi-county fair .
The fair includes agricultural  दर्शाती  , a craft show , food vendors , and carnival rides amongst other things .
Every summer on the last Saturday of August , Shippensburg holds  the Corn  Festival , an event that brings regional artisans and vendors to operate stands downtown .
The downtown is closed to traffic for at least 5  ब्लॉक  for most of the day .
Average attendance at the  पर्व  is estimated at 60,000 - 70,000 each year .
Black hairy tongue ( BHT , also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition of the tongue  जहाँ the filiform papillae  elongate with black or brown discoloration , giving a black and hairy appearance .
The  रूप  may be alarming , but it is a harmless condition .
Predisposing factors include smoking , xerostomia ( dry mouth ) , soft diet , poor oral hygiene  and  certain medications .
Management is by improving oral   hygiene , especially scraping or brushing the tongue .
The IEEE 1394 interface is a serial bus interface standard for high-speed communications and  isochronous real-time  data transfer .
It was developed in the late 1980s and  जल्दी 1990s  by Apple , who called it FireWire .
The 1394 interface is comparable to USB , and often  those दो technologies हैं माना  together , though USB has more market share .
Apple first included FireWire in some of its 1999 models , and most Apple  कंप्यूटर  since the year 2000 have included FireWire ports , though , as of 2013 , nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ) .
The interface is also known by the brand i.LINK ( Sony ) , and Lynx (  टेक्सास यंत्र  ) .
IEEE 1394  replaced समानांतर  SCSI in many applications , because of lower implementation costs and a simplified , more adaptable cabling system .
The 1394 standard also defines a backplane  इंटरफ़ेस  , though this is not as widely used .
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video Network Alliance ( HANA ) standard connection interface for A/V ( audio/visual )  घटक संचार  and control .
FireWire is also  उपलब्धियाँ in बेतार  , fiber optic , and coaxial versions using the isochronous protocols .
Stephen ``   Stevie '' Ray Vaughan ( October 3 , 1954 – August 27 , 1990 ) was an American guitarist , singer-songwriter , and record producer .
Often referred to by his initials SRV , Vaughan is best known as a founding member and  नेता  of Double Trouble .
Together with drummer Chris  layton  and bassist Tommy Shannon , they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s .
With a career spanning seven years  ,  Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold .
He  थी born और उठाया  in Dallas , Texas , and for a short period of time lived in Graham , Texas .
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan , Vaughan  प्रारंभ  playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs .
At age  17 , he dropped आउट of ऊँची  school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical career , joining groups such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple Threat Revue , a band that eventually evolved into Double Trouble and regularly performed  around  Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux  जैज़  Festival in Switzerland , catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's Dance , while Browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los  एंजिल्स to रिकार्ड an एल्बम  .
In March  1983  , Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record producer John Hammond Sr. and released their debut album , Texas Flood in June of that year .
After successful touring , the group released the  एल्बम , could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984 )  and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ) , the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had progressed successfully , Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta , Georgia to give up a  कोका और दारू आदत और लौटे to  touring with the band .
In June 1989 ,  In Step  was released and earned them a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues Performance .
On August 27 , 1990 , Vaughan was killed in a  हेलीकाप्टर क्रैश following  a performance in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan   's uniquely eclectic yet intense style was derived from a variety of musical genres .
He was influenced by blues musicians including Albert  किंग , फ्रेडी किंग ,  Otis Rush , and Muddy Waters , and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar playing  reflected the  classic blues and pentatonic scales .
He has  प्राप्त चौड़ी नाजुक मान्यता लिये उसके गिटार playing , रैंकिंग at # 6 on रोलिंग पत्थरों सूची of `` 100 महानतम guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was erected in Austin 's  ऑडिटोरियम  Shores park .
स्टीवी रे vaughan is widely माना to be एक of the महानतम संगीतकारों to आइये इससे the राज्य of टेक्सास .
gige  redirects here .
लिये the कैमरा प्रोटोकॉल , देखिए gige दृष्टि .
In computer networking , gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 GigE ) is a term describing various technologies for transmitting Ethernet frames at a rate of a gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ) , as  defined  by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard .
It came into use beginning in 1999 , gradually supplanting   Fast Ethernet in wired local networks , where it performed considerably faster .
The cables and equipment are very similar to previous  मानकों  and were very common and economical by 2010 .
Half-duplex gigabit links   connected through hubs are allowed by the specification , but full-duplex usage with switches is much more common .
Intel PRO/1000 GT PCI network  इंटरफ़ेस  card
The main components of  a  stamp:
1   . Image
2 .  perforations
3 .  denomination
4  . Country name
A postage stamp is a small piece of paper that is purchased  और प्रदर्शित  on an item of mail as evidence of payment of postage .
Typically , stamps are made from special paper , with a national designation and denomination ( price ) on the face , and a  गम चिपकने on the  reverse side .
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other authorized vendor and are used to pay for the  लागत शामिल in चलती मेल as खूब  as other business necessities such as insurance and registration .
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a small rectangle of  varying  proportions , though triangles or other shapes are occasionally used .
The stamp is affixed to an envelope or other postal cover ( i.e. , packet , box , mailing cylinder ) that the  ग्राहक  wishes to send .
The item is  then processed by the  postal system , where a postmark , sometimes known as a cancellation mark , is usually applied over the stamp and cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used , which prevents its reuse .
The postmark indicates the date and point  of  origin of the mailing .
The mailed item is then delivered to the address   that the customer has applied to the envelope or cover .
Postage stamps have facilitated the delivery  of  mail since the 1840s .
Before this time , ink and  hand-stamps ( hence the शब्द 'stamp ' ) , प्रायः बना इससे लकडी or कॉर्क , यहूद प्रायः प्रयुक्त to फ़्रैंक the मेल और confirm the भुगतान of postage .
The first adhesive postage  स्टैम्प  , commonly referred to as the Penny Black , was issued in the United Kingdom in 1840 .
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , which in the early 19th century was in   disarray and rife with corruption .
There are  varying खाते of  the inventor or inventors of the stamp .
Before the introduction of postage  stamps , मेल in the uk थी सशुल्क लिये by the प्राप्तकर्ता ,  a system that was associated with an irresolvable problem : the costs of delivering mail were not recoverable by the postal service when recipients were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items , and senders had no incentive to restrict the number , size , or weight of items sent , whether or not they would ultimately be paid for .
The postage stamp resolved this issue in a simple  और सुरुचिपूर्ण  manner , with the additional benefit of room for an element of beauty to be introduced .
Later related inventions include postal stationery such as prepaid-postage   envelopes , post cards , lettercards , aerogrammes and wrappers , postage meters , and , more recently , specialty boxes and envelopes provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing .
The postage stamp afforded convenience for both the  मेलर और डाक  officials , more efficiently recovered costs for the postal service , and ultimately resulted in a better , faster postal system .
With the conveniences stamps offered , their use resulted in greatly increased mailings during the  19th और 20th सदियां  .
Postage stamps during this era were the most popular way of paying for mail , but by the end of the 20th century were rapidly  होने  eclipsed by the use of metered postage and bulk mailing by businesses . )
The same result with respect to communications by private parties occurred over the last decade of the 20th century and the first decade of the 21st due to declining cost of long distance telephone communications and the development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the  अंतरजाल ) और विधेयक paying प्रणालियों था  .
As postage stamps with their  engraved imagery began  to appear on a widespread basis , historians and collectors began to take notice .
The study of postage stamps and their   use is referred to as philately .
Stamp collecting can be  दोनो a शौक और a रूप  of historical study and reference , as government-issued postage stamps and their mailing systems have always been involved with the history of nations .
The University of Alabama at Birmingham ( UAB )  is a पब्लिक  university in Birmingham in the U.S. state of Alabama .
Developing from an extension center established in 1936 , the institution became an autonomous institution in 1969 and is today one of three institutions  in the  University of Alabama System .
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic divisions leading to bachelor 's , master 's , doctoral , and professional degrees in the social and behavioral sciences , the liberal arts , business , education , engineering , and health-related fields such as medicine ,   dentistry , optometry , nursing , and public health .
The school is highly  प्रसिद्ध  for its medical research and natural sciences programs .
The UAB Health System , one of the largest academic medical  centers in the  United States , is affiliated with the university .
UAB Hospital sponsors residency programs in various medical specialties  , including internal  medicine , neurology , surgery , radiology , and anesthesiology .
UAB Hospital is the only ACS verified Level I trauma center in Alabama , as rated by the American College of Surgeons Trauma  कार्यक्रम  .
UAB is the  राज्य 's largest नियोक्ता  , with more than 18,000 faculty and staff and over 53,000 jobs at the university and in the health system .
an अनुमानित  10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area and 1 in 33 jobs in the state of Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB .
The university 's overall annual economic impact was  अनुमानित  to be $ 4.6 billion in 2010 .
in the पतन of 2012 , the विश्वविद्यालयों of अलबामा at बर्मिंघम नामांकित 17,999 विद्यार्थी इससे अधिक than 110 देशों , सहित 1,605 freshmen .
There   are plans to commence with an `` aggressive '' growth in enrollment at UAB .
The  वर्तमान  UAB President is Dr. Ray L. Watts .
Tofu , also called  सेम दही , is a खाना  made by coagulating soy juice and then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks .
It  is  a component in many East Asian and Southeast Asian cuisines .
वहीँ हैं अनेक  different varieties of tofu , including fresh tofu and tofu that has been processed in some way .
Tofu has a subtle flavor and  can be प्रयुक्त  in savory and sweet dishes .
It is often seasoned or marinated to suit the  डिश  .
टोफू originated in प्राचीन चीन कुछ 2,000 सालो पहले .
Chinese legend ascribes its invention to prince Liu  an  ( Chinese : 劉安 Liú Ān , 179–122 BC ) .
Tofu and its production technique were introduced into Korea and then Japan during the Nara  काल  .
It spread into other parts of East Asia  as well  .
This spread likely coincided with the spread of Buddhism because it is an important   source of protein in the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism .
li shizhen in the मिंग राजवंश वर्णित a विधि of बनाना टोफू in bencao gangmu .
Tofu  रै a कम कैलोरी गिनती , अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts of प्रोटीन , और छोटी मोटे .
It is high in iron and depending on the coagulant used in  निर्माण  , may also be high in calcium and/or magnesium .
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee ,   known for being the one-time pet of American recording artist Michael Jackson , who bought the primate from a Texas research facility in the early 1980s .
The animal was a frequent travel companion to the singer , whose  अनुलग्नक to the एनिमल  led to media mockery and , among other factors , to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric .
During the Bad World Tour , for example , Jackson  brought बुलबुले साथ उसे to जापानी  , where they both drank tea with the mayor of Osaka .
बुलबुले थी initially रखा at the जैक्सन परिवार 's घर in encino , लॉस एंजिल्स , लकिन थी स्थानांतरित to neverland ranch in 1988 .
There  , he  slept in a crib in Jackson 's bedroom , used the singer 's toilet , and ate candy in the Neverland movie theater .
In 2003 the public learned that , like all captive chimpanzees , Bubbles had matured into a large and  आक्रामक  adult chimp unsuitable as a companion animal .
He was sent to a California  एनिमल प्रशिक्षक  , where he was reported to have attempted suicide .
When the trainer shut down his operation in  2004 , बुलबुले थी  moved to the Center for Great Apes , a sanctuary in Wauchula , Florida , where he has lived since 2005 .
Muse are an English rock band from  teignmouth  , Devon , which formed in 1994 .
The band consists of school friends  मैथ्यू bellamy  ( lead vocals , lead guitar , piano , keyboards , keytar ) , Christopher Wolstenholme ( bass , vocals , keyboards , rhythm guitar , harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums , percussion , synthesisers , sampling ) .
Since the release of their 2006 album  ब्लैक छेद और खुलासे  , keyboardist and percussionist Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band .
Muse are known for their energetic and extravagant live performances and their fusion of many music genres , including space rock , progressive rock , alternative rock , heavy metal  , classical  music and electronica .
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ) ,  उत्पत्ति of सममिति  ( 2001 ) , Absolution ( 2003 ) , Black Holes and Revelations ( 2006 ) , The Resistance ( 2009 ) and The 2nd Law ( 2012 ) .
They have also issued three live albums , Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ) , which is also a compilation of B-sides , Absolution Tour ( 2005 ) , and HAARP ( 2008 ) , which documents the band 's performances at  Wembley Stadium  in 2007 .
Black Holes  और खुलासे  earned the band a Mercury Prize nomination and a third place finish in the NME Albums of the Year list for 2006 .
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history , including five MTV Europe Music Awards , six Q Awards ,  eight NME  Awards , two Brit Awards —winning `` Best British Live Act '' twice , an MTV Video Music Award , four Kerrang !
पुरस्कार और  an American Music Award .
They were also nominated for five Grammy Awards , of which they won Best Rock Album , for their fifth  स्टुडियो  album The Resistance ( 2009 ) .
Muse have sold over 15  लाख  albums worldwide .
Bloemfontein ( , ; Dutch for `` fountain of flowers '' ) is the capital city of the Free State Province of South Africa ; and , as the judicial capital of the nation , one of  South Africa 's three  national capitals – the other two being Cape Town , the legislative capital , and Pretoria , the administrative capital .
Bloemfontein is popularly and poetically known as ``  the  city of roses `` , owing to the abundance of these flowers and the annual rose festival held there .
The city 's Sesotho name is Mangaung , meaning `` place of cheetahs `` and it has been  शामिल  in the Mangaung Local Municipality since 2000 .
bloemfontein is situated  on dry grassland at , at an altitude of above sea level .
The city is home to  369,568 निवासियों  , while the Mangaung Local Municipality has a population of 645,455 .
जहाँ do  We Come From ?
What  हैं  We ?
Where Are We  going  ?
One of  post-impressionist  Paul Gauguin 's most famous paintings .
The meaning of life is a  philosophical  question concerning the significance of life or existence in general .
It can also be expressed in different forms , such as `` Why are we here ? `` , `` What is life all about ? `` , and `` What is the purpose  of  existence ? ''
It has been the  विषय of much philosophical  , scientific , and theological speculation throughout history .
There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from  अनेक अलग  cultural and ideological backgrounds .
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence , social ties , consciousness , and happiness , and borders on many other  issues , such as  symbolic meaning , ontology , value , purpose , ethics , good and evil , free will , the existence of one or multiple Gods , conceptions of God , the soul , and the afterlife .
Scientific contributions focus   primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe , exploring the context and parameters concerning the 'how ' of life .
Science  भी  studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality .
An alternative , humanistic  दृष्टिकोण  poses the question `` What is the meaning of my life ? ''
The value of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide with the achievement of  परम वास्तविकता , or  a feeling of oneness , or even a feeling of sacredness .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter Griffin , Stewie Griffin ,  ब्रायन griffin  , and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is an American  animated  sitcom that features five main voice actors , and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex Borstein , Seth Green , Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert   after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West , John G. Brennan , Nicole  सुलीवान  and Jennifer Tilly , and repeat guest stars include Phyllis Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast  सदस्यों  provide voices for multiple characters .
The voice actors , in portraying the various character personalities on the show , draw inspiration from celebrities  and  pop culture .
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one actor , after members of the show left the series or had  conflicting  obligations .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an  एमी पुरस्कार लिये बकाया voice-over  Performance and an Annie Award for Best Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production , though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series .
1911  उदाहरण by  Edmund Dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` The Princess on the Pea ''  ) is a literary fairy tale by  Hans Christian Andersen about a young woman whose royal identity is established by a test of her physical sensitivity .
The tale was first published with three others by Andersen in an inexpensive booklet on 8 May 1835 in Copenhagen  by C.A  . Reitzel .
Andersen had heard the story as a child , and it likely has its source in folk material , possibly originating from Sweden as it  is अनजान  in the Danish oral tradition .
neither ``  The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen 's other tales of 1835 were well received by Danish critics , who disliked their casual , chatty style , and their lack of morals .
In 1959 `` The Princess  and  the Pea '' was adapted to the musical stage in a production called Once Upon a Mattress starring Carol Burnett .
German Americans ( ) are citizens of the United States who  यहूद  either born in Germany or are of German ancestry .
They comprise about 50 million people , making them  the largest ancestry समूह  ahead of Irish Americans , African Americans and English Americans .
They comprise  परिचय  1/3 of the German diaspora all over the world .
None of the German  राज्य था  New World colonies .
Not until the 1670s did the first significant groups of German immigrants arrive in the British colonies , settling  primarily in नई यॉर्क और पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
Immigration continued in very large numbers during the  19th  century , with some eight million arrivals from Germany .
They were pulled by the attractions of land and religious freedom , and pushed out of Europe by shortages of land and religious or   political oppression .
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom , others for economic opportunities greater than those in Europe   , and others simply for the chance to start fresh in the New World .
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers who sought out the most productive land , where their  intensive  farming techniques would pay off .
After  1840 , अनेक आए to शहरों , जहाँ `` germania '' —german-speaking districts—soon उभरा .
German Americans established the first kindergartens in the United States , introduced the Christmas tree tradition , and originated  लोकप्रिय अमरीकी  foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers .
German American celebrations are held throughout the country , one of the most well-known being the German-American  steuben परेड in नई यॉर्क नगर  , held every third Saturday in September .
There are also major annual events in  शिकागो  , Cincinnati , Milwaukee , Pittsburgh , St. Louis and other cities .
Like many other immigrants that came to the United States , an overwhelming number of people of German or partial German descent have   essentially become Americanized .
The Preamble to the United States  संविधान  is a brief introductory statement of the Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles .
It states in general terms , and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of , the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the  संविधान 's अर्थ और कया वे hoped the संविधान होता  achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , `` we the people '' suggests that the  new  government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy .
The history of the Internet began with the  विकास  of electronic computers in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent  over the arpanet इससे  computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California , Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I at NPL   in the UK , CYCLADES , Merit Network , Tymnet , and Telenet , were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking  , in  which multiple separate networks could be joined together into a network of networks .
In 1982 , the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized , and  नतीजतन  , the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks , called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the Computer Science  संजाल ( csnet  ) and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations .
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began to emerge in the late  1980s  and early 1990s .
The ARPANET  थी decommissioned  in 1990 .
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned , removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to  carry वाणिज्यिक  traffic .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce , including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail , instant messaging , Voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) `` phone calls '' , two-way interactive  वीडियो काल्स , और the संसार चौड़ी वेब साथ इसके चर्चा  forums , blogs , social networking , and online shopping sites .
The research and education community continues to develop and  use advanced  networks such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher  और उच्चतर speeds  over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way  दूरसंचार संजाल in the साल 1993 , already 51 % by  2000 , and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007 .
Today the Internet continues to grow , driven by ever greater amounts of online information , commerce ,  entertainment  , and social networking .
दक्षिणपश्चिम एयरलाइंस co. ( ) is a प्रमुख u.S. एयरलाइन और the संसार 's largest low-cost वाहक , headquartered in डलास , टेक्सास .
It  was  established in 1967 and adopted its current name in 1971 .
The airline has more than 46,000  कर्मचारी  and operates more than 3,400 flights per day .
As of June 5  ,  2011 , it carries the most domestic passengers of any U.S. airline .
As of April 2013 , Southwest Airlines has scheduled service to 84  गंतव्यों  in 41 states and Puerto Rico .
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s , except for a few  years in  the 1970s and 1980s , when it operated Boeing 727s .
As of August 2012 , Southwest is the  largest ऑपरेटर of the 737 विश्वव्यापी  with over 550 in service , each operating an average of six flights per day .
In  may 2011 , the एयरलाइन  acquired AirTran Airways , with integration of the carriers expected to be complete by 2014 .
On March 1 , 2012 , the company was issued a single operating certificate  ,  technically becoming one airline .
Rolling Rock is a 4.6 % abv  pale  lager launched in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing Company .
Although founded as a local beer in Western  पेन्सिलवेनिया , it  was marketed aggressively and eventually became a national product .
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis ,  मिसौरी , in मिड 2006 ,  which transferred brewing operations to New Jersey .
Benedict XVI ( , , ;  born  Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger on 16 April 1927 ) is Pope emeritus of the Catholic Church .
He served   as Pope from 2005 to 2013 .
In that position , he was both the leader of the  कैथोलिक  Church and Sovereign of the Vatican City State .
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave , celebrated his Papal  उद्घाटन द्रव्यमान on 24 अप्रैल  2005 , and took possession of his cathedral , the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran , on 7 May 2005 .
ordained  as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria , Ratzinger established himself as a highly regarded university theologian by the late 1950s and was appointed a full professor in 1958 .
After a long career as an academic , serving as a professor of theology at several German universities—the last being the University of Regensburg , where he served as Vice President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and  कार्डिनल by पोप पॉल vi in  1977 , an unusual promotion for someone with little pastoral experience .
In 1981 , he settled in Rome when he became Prefect of the  सभा लिये  the Doctrine of the Faith , one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia .
From 2002 until his election as pope ,  he थी भी  Dean of the College of Cardinals , and as such , the primus inter pares among the cardinals .
Prior to becoming pope , he was `` a major figure on the Vatican stage  लिये a क्वार्टर of a सदी '' as ``  one of the most respected , influential and controversial members of the College of Cardinals '' ; he had an influence `` second to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants .
He was  originally  a liberal theologian , but adopted conservative views after 1968 .
उसके  prolific writings defend traditional Catholic doctrine and values .
During his papacy , Benedict XVI advocated a return to fundamental Christian  values to counter the  increased secularisation of many Western countries .
He views relativism 's denial of objective truth , and the denial   of moral truths in particular , as the central problem of the 21st century .
He taught the importance of both the Catholic Church and an understanding of God 's  redemptive  love .
Pope Benedict also revived a number of traditions including elevating the Tridentine Mass   to a more prominent position .
He renewed the relationship between the Catholic Church and art , viewing the use of beauty  as a path to the  sacred , promoted the use of Latin , and reintroduced traditional papal garments , for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics '' .
He has been described as `` the main intellectual force in the Church '' since  the mid-1980s  .
Several of Pope Benedict 's students from his academic career  हैं  also prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him , notably Christoph Schönborn .
On 11 February 2013 , Pope Benedict announced his resignation in  a  speech in Latin before the cardinals , citing a `` lack of strength of mind and body '' due to his advanced age .
उसके  resignation became effective on 28 February 2013 .
He is the first  पोप  to resign since Pope Gregory XII in 1415 , and the first to do so on his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294 .
As pope emeritus , Benedict  retains  the style of His Holiness , and the title of Pope , and will continue to dress in the papal colour of white .
he थी succeeded by पोप फ्रांसिस on 13 कूच 2013 , और he स्थानांतरित into the newly संवर मेटर ecclesiae मठ लिये उसके रिटायरमेंट on 2 may 2013..
Pocket  stereoscope  with original test image .
Used by military to examine stereoscopic pairs  of aerial  photographs .
View of Boston , c. 1860 ; an early stereoscopic card for viewing a scene from  प्रकृति
Kaiser-Panorama consisted of a multi-station viewing apparatus  and sets of  stereo slides .
Patented by A. Fuhrmann around  1890  .
Company of ladies  watching stereoscopic  photographs , painting by Jacob Spoel , before 1868 .
A very early depiction of people using a  stereoscope  .
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique for creating  or enhancing the illusion of  depth in an image by means of stereopsis for binocular vision .
The word stereoscopy  गर्भाशयी  from the Greek `` στερεός '' ( stereos ) , `` firm , solid '' + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ) , `` to look '' , `` to see '' .
Most stereoscopic methods present two  ऑफसेट बिंब separately  to the left and right eye of the viewer .
ये  two-dimensional images are then combined in the brain to give the perception of 3D depth .
This technique is  विशिष्ट इससे 3d प्रदर्शक कि प्रदर्शक an चित्र  in three full dimensions , allowing the observer to increase information about the 3-dimensional objects being displayed by head and eye movements .
John Adams ( October  30 , 1735 ( o.s . अक्तूबर 19 , 1735  ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ) , having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States .
an अमरीकी founding पिता , he थी a statesman , राजनयिक , और a अग्रणी एडवोकेट of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  .
Well educated , he was an Enlightenment political theorist who promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas , both in published works  and in letters to his wife  and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
Adams came to  prominence  in the early stages of the American Revolution .
A lawyer and public figure in Boston , as a delegate from Massachusetts to the Continental Congress , he played a leading role in persuading Congress  to declare  independence .
He assisted   Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776 , and was its primary advocate in the Congress .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe , he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain , and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from  एम्सटर्डम  bankers .
a राजनैतिक theorist और इतिहासकार , एडम्स largely लिखा the मैसाचुसेट्स संविधान in 1780 , जिससे साथ साथ उसके पहले विचार on सरकारी , बहकावे अमरीकी राजनैतिक विचार  .
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775 , he nominated George Washington to be  commander-in-chief ,  and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured   him two terms as George Washington 's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he encountered ferocious attacks  by the  Jeffersonian Republicans , as well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts  , and built up the army and  navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major accomplishment of his presidency was his  शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन  of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In 1800 , Adams was defeated for  re-election by थामस जेफरसन  and retired to Massachusetts .
he बाद resumed उसके दोस्ती साथ जेफरसन  .
He and his wife , Abigail Adams , founded an accomplished family line of politicians , diplomats , and   historians now referred to as the Adams political family .
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams ,  the  sixth President of the United States .
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern times ,  हालांकि उसके योगदान  were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders .
एडम्स थी the पहला u.S. अध्यक्ष to reside in the भवन कि आखिरकार became ज्ञात as the श्वेत हाउस .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United   States currency .
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95  ) , Alexander  Hamilton , is currently featured on the obverse of the bill , while the U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse .
(  हैमिल्टन is  one of two non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other  is  Benjamin Franklin , on the $ 100 bill .
Hamilton is one of only four people featured on U.S. paper currency ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States , as he was  इससे the वेस्ट इंडीज  .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender ) ; George Meade , Spain ( $ 1,000 1890/91  राजकोष नोट )  ; and Robert Morris , England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In addition , Kamehameha I , appears on the 2008 Hawaii  राज्य क्वार्टर .  )
All $ 10  बिल्स  issued today are Federal Reserve Notes .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 bill  in  circulation is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
Approximately 6 %  of  all US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar  बिल्स  are delivered by Federal Reserve Banks in yellow straps .
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s 1805 portrait of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait  संग्रहण  of New York City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces  to the left ( the $ 100,000 bill  featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left , but was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
A rider on a Yamaha Waverunner XL  performing  a high-speed turn .
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a jet  of  water ejected from the back of the craft .
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or behind the boat , a jetboat draws the water from under  the नाव into a  pump inside the boat , then expels it through a nozzle at the stern .
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who developed a  waterjet in 1954  ) for operation in the fast-flowing and shallow rivers of New Zealand , specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters .
Previous attempts  at  waterjet propulsion had very short lifetimes , generally due to the inefficient design of the units and the fact that they offered few advantages over conventional propellers .
Unlike these previous waterjet developments , such as Campini 's and the Hanley  hydrojet  , Hamilton had a specific need for a propulsion system to operate in very-shallow water , and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution .
From this , the popularity of  the  jet unit and jetboat increased rapidly .
Through further developments , it was found the waterjet offered several other advantages over propellers for a wide range of vessel types , and as such , waterjets are used widely today for many high-speed vessels ,  सहित यात्री ferries  , rescue craft , patrol boats and offshore supply vessels .
Jetboats are highly maneuverable , and many can , from full speed , be reversed and brought to a stop within little more than their own length , in a maneuver known as  a ``  crash stop '' .
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin ''  is a  high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is cut , the steering is turned sharply and the throttle opened again , causing the boat to spin quickly around with a large spray of water .
There is no engineering limit to the size of jetboats , though the validity of their use depends a lot on the type of   application .
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and economical at low speeds , up to about , but as boat speed increases beyond this , the extra hull resistance generated by struts , rudders , shafts ( etc . ) means waterjets are more efficient in the  20-50 गांठ दायरा (  up to ) .
Also , in situations with very large propellers  turning  at slow speeds ( such as tug boats ) , the equivalent size waterjet would be too big to be practical .
For these reasons , the vast  बहुमत  of waterjet units are installed in high-speed vessels and in particular situations where shallow draught , maneuverability , and load flexibility are main concerns .
The  biggest jet-driven  vessels are found in military use or the high-speed passenger/car ferry industry .
South Africa 's s ( approximately long ) are the  biggest jet-propelled  vessels so far .
Even these  german-built बरतन हैं  capable of performing `` crash stops '' .
Uveitis is broadly defined as  सूजन  of the uvea .
The uvea consists of the middle , pigmented , vascular structures  of the eye  and includes the iris , ciliary body , and choroid .
Uveitis requires an urgent referral and thorough examination by an  ophthalmologist or optometrist साथ  with urgent treatment to control the inflammation .
Eric `` E .  ''
Murphy  is a fictional  character on the comedy-drama television series Entourage .
He is played by Kevin  connolly  .
The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror  film  produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick , co-written with novelist Diane Johnson , and starring Jack Nicholson , Shelley Duvall , Scatman Crothers , and Danny Lloyd .
The film is based   on the Stephen King novel The Shining .
A writer , Jack Torrance , takes a job as an  off-season  caretaker at an isolated hotel .
His young son possesses psychic abilities  और is समर्थ to देखिए  things from the past and future , such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel .
Soon after settling in , the family is trapped in the hotel by a snowstorm , and Jack gradually becomes influenced by a  अलौकिक उपस्थिति ;  he descends into madness and attempts to murder his wife and son .
Unlike previous Kubrick films , which developed an audience gradually by building on word-of-mouth , The Shining was released as  a  mass-market film , opening at first in just two cities on Memorial Day , then nationwide a month later .
Although initial response to the film was mixed , later critical assessment was more favorable and it  is now  viewed as a classic of the horror genre .
Film  निदेशक मार्टिन  Scorsese , writing in The Daily Beast , ranked it as one of the 11 scariest horror movies of all time .
Film critics , film students , and Kubrick 's producer , Jan Harlan , have remarked on the enormous  influence  the film has had on popular culture .
The initial European release of The Shining was 25 minutes shorter than the American version ,  हासिल by  removing most of the scenes taking place outside the environs of the hotel .
आँगन  Cola Bottle
Patio Diet Cola was a brand of diet  सोडा introduced  by Pepsi in 1963 .
It was created in response to Diet Rite Cola ,  जिससे थी the  first diet cola on the market .
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake was Patio  आहार कोला 's  spokesperson .
In 1964 , Patio released orange  ,  grape , and root beer flavors .
इस स्वाद  line was not meant to compete with brands like Orange Crush , but rather fill out the line .
Patio sodas were available in the cold-bottle   market : grocery and mom-and-pop stores .
Advertising for Patio was comparatively  scarce ; at the समय  , bottlers were regionally franchised , and related advertising was necessarily local .
In 1964 ,  आँगन  diet cola became Diet Pepsi .
The newly  ब्रांडेड आहार  soda was advertised alongside Pepsi with the tagline `` Pepsi either way '' , which replaced the slogan `` Dances with flavor '' .
The short life span of Patio Diet cola makes it a great  जोड लिये  bottle collectors .
Most of the remaining Patio line of flavors were phased out by the early  1970s , जबकि a few बच जबतक  the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic physical and  organizational structures  needed for the operation of a society or enterprise , or the services and facilities necessary for an economy to function .
It can  be  generally defined as the set of interconnected structural elements that provide framework supporting an entire structure of development .
It is an important term for judging a  देश or प्रदेश  's development .
The term typically refers to the technical structures that   support a society , such as roads , bridges , water supply , sewers , electrical grids , telecommunications , and so forth , and can be defined as `` the physical components of interrelated systems providing commodities and services essential to enable , sustain , or enhance societal living conditions . ''
Viewed functionally , infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services , and also the distribution of  समाप्त उत्पाद to बाज़ार , as खूब  as basic social services such as schools and hospitals ; for example , roads enable the transport of raw materials to a factory .
In military parlance , the term refers to the buildings and permanent installations necessary for the support , redeployment , and operation of  सैन्य  forces .
To make it simple ,  अवसंरचना  is anything that is needed everyday , an everyday item .
A graphical  प्रतिनिधित्व  of the ideal human karyotype
mitochondrial  DNA .
Human genetic  विभिन्नता is  the genetic differences both within and among populations .
There may be multiple variants of any given gene in the human population ( genes ) ,  अग्रणी to बहुरूपता  .
Many genes are not polymorphic , meaning  कि तभी a सिंगल allele  is present in the population : the gene is then said to be fixed .
No two  इंसानो  are genetically identical .
Even monozygotic twins , who develop from one zygote , have infrequent genetic differences due to  mutations  occurring during development and gene copy number variation .
Differences  between individuals  , even closely related individuals , are the key to techniques such as genetic fingerprinting .
Alleles occur at different frequencies in different human populations , with populations that are more  geographically and  ancestrally remote tending to differ more .
Causes of differences between individuals include the  एक्सचेंज  of genes during meiosis and various mutational events .
There are at  तनिक दो  reasons why genetic variation exists between populations .
Natural selection may confer an adaptive advantage to individuals in a specific environment if an  allele provides  a competitive advantage .
Alleles under selection are likely to occur only in those  भौगोलिक  regions where they confer an advantage .
The second main  कारण of जेनेटिक विभिन्नता is due to the ऊँची उपाधि of neutrality of सबसे mutations .
Most mutations do not appear to have any selective  प्रभाव एक रास्ता or the  other on the organism .
The main cause  is  genetic drift , this is the effect of random changes in the gene pool .
In humans , founder effect and past small population size ( increasing the likelihood of genetic drift  ) may  have had an important influence in neutral differences between populations .
The  सिद्धान्त  that humans recently migrated out of Africa supports this .
The study of human genetic   variation has both evolutionary significance and medical applications .
It can help scientists understand ancient human  जनसांख्यिकी  migrations as well as how different human groups are biologically related to one another .
For medicine , study of human genetic variation may be important because some  disease-causing  alleles occur more often in people from specific geographic regions .
New findings show that  प्रत्येक इंसान रै on  average 60 new mutations compared to their parents .
Apart from mutations , many genes that may have aided humans in  प्राचीन  times plague humans today .
For example , it is suspected that genes that allow humans to more efficiently process food are those that make people  susceptible  to obesity and diabetes today .
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol and the National  Mall at the  Taxpayer March on Washington on September 12 , 2009 .
The  Tea Party  movement is an American political movement that advocates strict adherence to the United States Constitution , reducing U.S. government spending and taxes , and reduction of the U.S. national debt and federal budget deficit .
The movement has been called partly conservative ,  partly  libertarian , and partly populist .
the गति रै प्रायोजित विरोध और समर्थित राजनैतिक उम्मीदवार चूंकि  2009 .
The name of the movement is derived from the Boston Tea Party of 1773 , an iconic event in American   history .
anti-tax प्रदर्शनकारियों  in the United States have often referred to the original Boston Tea Party for inspiration .
References to the Boston Tea Party were part   of Tax Day protests held throughout the 1990s and earlier .
By 2001 , a custom had developed among some conservative  कार्यकर्ताओं of mailing  tea bags to legislators and other officials as a symbolic act .
The currencies of Puerto Rico closely  follow  the historic development of Puerto Rico .
As a colony of Spain  और the संयुक्त राज्य  , Puerto Rico was granted the use of both foreign and provincial currencies .
Following the Spanish colonization  in 1502  , Puerto Rico became an important port , with its own supply of gold .
However ,  as the खनिज reserves भागा खाली भीतर the सदी , the द्वीपसमूह 's अर्थव्यवस्था suffered .
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado Mexicano , which meant that a semi-regular shipment of gold from the Viceroyalty of New Spain would be sent to the island , as a way to provide economic  support  .
Between 1636 and 1637 , Philip IV of Spain imposed a tax which had to be paid  using  a revenue stamp .
Inspired by this , Puerto Rico began producing banknotes in 1766 , becoming the first colony to  छपाई 8- रियल banknotes  in the Spanish Empire and which in the Spanish government 's approval of subsequent issues .
The situado was discontinued during the 19th century , creating an economic crisis , as a result of Mexico gaining its independence   from Spain .
Salvador Meléndez Bruna , the colonial governor in office , ordered the issue  of  provincial banknotes , creating the Puerto Rican peso .
However   , printing of these banknotes ceased after 1815 .
During   the following decades , foreign coins became the widespread currency .
In the 1860s and  1870s  , banknotes reemerged .
On February 1 , 1890 , the Banco  español de प्यूर्टो  Rico was inaugurated and began issuing banknotes .
The bank  designed चार श्रेणी और  placed three in circulation under Spanish rule .
in  1895 , a Royal Decree ordered the production of provincial peso coins .
On August 13 , 1898 , the Spanish-American War ended with Spain ceding Puerto Rico to the United   States .
The Banco Español de Puerto Rico was renamed Bank of Porto Rico and issued bills equivalent to the  संयुक्त राज्य डालर  , creating the Puerto Rican dollar .
In 1902 , the  पहला नेशनल  Bank of Porto Rico issued banknotes in a parallel manner .
Two more series were issued until  1913  .
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully integrated into the United States ' economic and monetary system , the Puerto   Rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury .
The peso and dollar have been followed by other contemporary issues , including commemorative banknotes , private currency , and a quarter coin designed with Fort San Felipe del Morro  in the  face .
Pepsi ( stylized in  lowercase as  pepsi , formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo .
Created and developed in  1893  and introduced as Brad 's Drink , it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28 , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
The Book of Ezekiel is the third of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible  , following  the books of Isaiah and Jeremiah and preceding the Book of the Twelve .
( The order is somewhat different in the  ईसाई  Old Testament ) .
It derives its   name from , and records the visions of , the 6th century BC priest and prophet Ezekiel .
According to the book , the prophet , exiled in Babylon , experienced a series of seven visions during  the  22 years from 593 to 571 BC , a period which spans the final destruction of Jerusalem in 586 .
The visions , and the book , are structured around three   themes : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 ) ; ( 2 ) judgment on the nations ( chapters 25-32 ) ; and future blessings for Israel ( chapters 33-48 ) .
नई ऑरलियन्स ( or , locally or ; ) is a प्रमुख संयुक्त राज्य बंदरगाहों और the largest नगर और महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the  state of Louisiana .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  of the city was 343,829 as of the 2010 U.S. Census .
The New Orleans  महानगर  area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States .
The  नई orleans–metairie–bogalusa  Combined Statistical Area , a larger trading area , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans , a city located on the Loire River in Centre  ,  France , and is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture , as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage .
New Orleans  is भी  famous for its cuisine , music ( particularly as the birthplace of jazz ) , and its annual celebrations and festivals , most notably Mardi Gras .
The city is often  referred to as  the `` most unique '' in America .
New Orleans is located in  southeastern louisiana  , straddling the Mississippi River .
The city and Orleans  मोहल्ला  ( ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to the north , St. Bernard to the east , Plaquemines   to the south and Jefferson to the south and west .
झील pontchartrain , भाग of जिससे is शामिल in the नगर हद , झूठ to the उत्तर और झील borgne झूठ to the  east .
The National Birth Control League was a birth control organization in the United  राज्य .
It was founded in March  1915 by मरियम dennett  , Clara Gruening Stillman and Jessie Ashley .
Its main purpose was to overturn the laws which  banned  contraceptives from the U.S. mails .
Campaigns were mounted in New York , but in 1919 the  लीग  was disbanded and reformed into the Voluntary Parenthood League .
Cancer ,  ज्ञात medically as a  malignant neoplasm , is a broad group of various diseases , all involving unregulated cell growth .
In cancer , cells divide and grow  uncontrollably  , forming malignant tumors , and invade nearby parts of the body .
The cancer may also spread to more distant parts of the body through the lymphatic system or  bloodstream  .
Not all tumors are  cancerous  .
Benign tumors do not grow uncontrollably , do not invade neighboring tissues  , and do not  spread throughout the body .
There are over  200 अलग  known cancers that afflict humans .
determining कया कल्याणकारी कर्कट is जटिल  .
Many things are known to  बढ़ाएँ  the risk of cancer , including tobacco use , certain infections , radiation , lack of physical activity , obesity , and environmental pollutants .
These can directly damage genes or combine with existing genetic faults within cells to  कारण  the disease .
Approximately five to ten percent of cancers are  entirely  hereditary .
Cancer can be detected in a number of ways , including the presence of certain signs and symptoms , screening tests ,  or  medical imaging .
Once a possible cancer is detected it is  diagnosed by microscopic  examination of a tissue sample .
Cancer is usually treated with chemotherapy  ,  radiation therapy and surgery .
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the type and  स्थान of the कर्कट  and the extent of disease at the start of treatment .
While cancer can affect people of all ages , and a few types  of  cancer are more common in children , the risk of developing cancer generally increases with age .
In 2007 , cancer caused about 13 % of all  इंसान  deaths worldwide ( 7.9 million ) .
Rates are rising as  अधिक लोगों  live to an old age and as mass lifestyle changes occur in the developing world .
Spring ski  touring  on Hardangervidda , Norway
Skiing is a recreational activity and competitive sport in which the participant attaches long runners or skis to boots or shoes on the feet and  उपयोग उन्हें to सफर on शीर्ष of  snow .
Aside from recreation and competition , skiing has been  प्रयुक्त लिये सैन्य  purposes and even travelling in areas that experience heavy snowfall .
Many types of competitive skiing events are recognized by the International Olympic Committee , and  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Ski Federation .
John Maynard Keynes , 1st Baron Keynes , CB , FBA ( ; 5 June 1883 – 21 April 1946 )  थी a अंग्रेजों  economist whose ideas have fundamentally affected the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics , and informed the economic policies of governments .
He built on and greatly refined earlier work on the causes of business cycles , and is widely considered to be one of the founders of modern macroeconomics and the most influential economist of the 20th  सदी  .
उसके विचार हैं the आधार लिये the स्कूल of विचार ज्ञात as keynesian अर्थशास्त्र , as खूब as इसके विभिन्न offshoots  .
In many ways , subsequent developments in 20th century economics can be viewed as either building on Keynes  ' ideas or  reacting against them .
In the 1930s , Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking , overturning the older ideas of neoclassical economics that held that free markets would , in the short to medium term , automatically provide full employment , as long as  मजदूर  were flexible in their wage demands .
Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand determined the overall level of economic activity , and that inadequate aggregate demand could lead  to prolonged  periods of high unemployment .
He advocated the use of fiscal and monetary measures  to  mitigate the adverse effects of economic recessions and depressions .
Following the outbreak of the Second World War , Keynes 's   ideas concerning economic policy were adopted by leading Western economies .
In 1942 , Keynes was awarded a hereditary peerage as Baron   Keynes of Tilton in the County of Sussex .
Keynes died in 1946 , but during  the 1950s  and 1960s the success of Keynesian economics resulted in almost all capitalist governments adopting its policy recommendations .
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s , partly as a result of problems that  began to पहुँचकर the anglo-american  economies from the start of the decade , and partly because of critiques from Milton Friedman and other economists who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy .
However , the  आगमन  of the global financial crisis in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought .
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for economic policies undertaken in response to the crisis by Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama of the United  राज्य , प्रधान मंत्री  Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom , and other heads of governments .
In 1999 , Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 most important and influential people of the 20th century , commenting that : `` His radical idea that governments  should spend money they do n't  have may have saved capitalism . ''
In addition to being an economist , Keynes was also a civil servant , a director of the British Eugenics Society , a director of the Bank of England , a patron of the arts and an art collector , a part of the Bloomsbury Group of  intellectuals  , an advisor to several charitable trusts , a writer , a philosopher , a private investor , and a farmer .
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel   Sofer emulated the 1675 Ten Commandments at the Amsterdam Esnoga synagogue .
The Ten Commandments , also known as  the decalogue , हैं a नियत of  biblical laws relating to ethics and worship , which play a fundamental role in Judaism , Islam and Christianity .
They include instructions  to worship only  God , to keep the sabbath holy and prohibitions against idolatry , blasphemy , murder , theft , deception and adultery .
Different  समूह  follow slightly different traditions for interpreting and numbering them .
The Ten Commandments  appear twice in  the Hebrew Bible , in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy .
According to the story in Exodus , God  inscribed  them on two stone tablets , which he gave to Moses on Mount Sinai .
Modern scholarship has found likely  प्रभाव in hittite  and Mesopotamian laws and treaties , but is divided over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them .
The discography of the English alternative rock band The Smiths consists of four studio albums , one extended play ( EP ) , one live album , ten compilation albums , twenty singles , one  वीडियो एल्बम और चौदह  music videos on the Rough Trade , Sire and WEA record labels .
The band was formed in 1982 in Manchester  by vocalist  Morrissey , guitarist Johnny Marr , bass player Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce .
Despite being  championed  by BBC Radio 1 disc jockey John Peel , the band 's debut single , `` Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983 ) , failed to chart .
Its follow-up , `` This Charming Man `` ( October  1983 )  , met with critical acclaim and reached number twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart .
The Smiths ' cult status was followed by mainstream success in 1984 , as they  पहुँचे क्रमांक बारह in the uk साथ the ``  What Difference Does It Make ? `` single and reached number two on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album , The Smiths ( 1984 ) .
उनके अगला  three singles all reached the top twenty of the charts in the UK , helping to consolidate their previous chart success .
The next studio album , Meat Is Murder ( 1985 ) , reached the top of the British charts ; however , the only single to be released from the album , `` That Joke Is  n't मजेदार anymore  `` ( 1985 ) , failed to break the UK Top 40 .
Returning to form , The Smiths ' next six singles all reached the higher than  number thirty  in the UK and their third album , The Queen Is Dead ( 1986 ) , reached number two in the UK .
despite the बैंड 's चार्ट कामयाबी , marr बाएँ the समूह in अगस्त 1987 due to a strained संबंध साथ morrissey  .
Failing to find a replacement , The Smiths disbanded by the time their final studio album  , strangeways  , Here We Come , was released in September that year .
Strangeways , Here We Come reached number two in the UK and became the band 's highest-charting release in the United States when it  पहुँचे क्रमांक fifty-five on the बिलबोर्ड  200 .
In early 1992 , WEA acquired the entire back catalogue of The Smiths and produced two compilations  –  Best ... I and ... Best II – the first of which reached the top of the UK Albums Chart .
WEA released two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001 , with a further compilation , The Sound of The  smiths ,  released in November 2008 .
Gone with the Wind is a novel written   by Margaret Mitchell , first published in 1936 .
It is often placed in the literary sub-genre of the  ऐतिहासिक  romance novel .
However , it has been argued the novel is a `` near miss '' and does not contain all of the elements of the romance genre , making it simply a  ऐतिहासिक  novel .
The story is set in Clayton County , Georgia , and Atlanta during the   American Civil War and Reconstruction .
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara , the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner , who must use every means at her disposal to come out of the poverty she finds herself in after Sherman 's `` March to the  समुद्र  '' .
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone with the Wind in 1926 to pass the time while recovering from an auto-crash injury that refused  to  heal .
In April 1935 , Harold Latham of Macmillan , an editor who was looking for new fiction , read what she had written and saw that it could be a  best-seller  .
After Latham agreed to publish the book , Mitchell worked for another six months checking the historical references , and  rewrote the खोलने  chapter several times .
Mitchell and her husband John Marsh , a copy editor by trade , edited  the final  version of the novel .
Mitchell wrote the book 's final moments first , and  तब  wrote the events that led up to it .
As to what became of her lovers , Rhett and Scarlett  , after the  novel ended , Mitchell did not know , and said , `` For all I know , Rhett may have found someone else who was less difficult . ''
Mitchell received the Pulitzer  Prize  for Fiction for the book in 1937 .
The book was  adapted  into a 1939 American film .
Gone with the Wind is the only novel by Mitchell published  दौरान  her lifetime .
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is one of the dental specialties recognized by the American Dental Association , Royal College of Dentists  of कनाडा ,  and Royal Australasian College of Dental Surgeons , and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth .
Endodontists perform a variety of procedures including endodontic therapy ( commonly known  as  `` root canal therapy '' ) , endodontic retreatment , surgery , treating cracked teeth , and treating dental trauma .
Root canal therapy is one of the most  common  procedures .
If the pulp ( containing nerves , arterioles , venules , lymphatic tissue , and fibrous tissue ) becomes diseased or injured ,  endodontic  treatment is required to save the tooth .
Serial  संलग्न scsi  ( SAS ) is a point-to-point serial protocol that moves data to and from computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives .
SAS replaces the older Parallel SCSI ( pronounced `` scuzzy '' ) bus technology  that first  appeared in the mid-1980s .
SAS , like its  पूर्ववर्ती , उपयोग  the standard SCSI command set .
SAS offers  पिछड़ा  compatibility with second-generation SATA drives .
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be connected to SAS backplanes , but  SAS drives  can not connect to SATA backplanes .
The T10   technical committee of the International Committee for Information Technology Standards ( INCITS ) develops and maintains the SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology .
Part of the constitutional provision as  it  appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born citizen of the United States is one of the eligibility  आवश्यकताएँ  established in the United States Constitution for election to the office of President or Vice President .
This requirement was  intended to  protect the nation from foreign influence .
The Constitution does not define the phrase natural-born citizen , and various  राय have महरूम  offered over time regarding its precise meaning .
A 2011 Congressional  शोध  Service report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been  mentioned in passing in several decisions of the  United States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with the question of eligibility for citizenship by birth , but the Supreme Court has never directly addressed the question of a specific presidential or vice-presidential candidate 's eligibility as a natural-born citizen .
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt '' Warner ( born June 22 , 1971 ) is a former  अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खिलाड़ी  .
He played quarterback for three National Football League ( NFL ) teams : the St. Louis Rams , the New  यॉर्क दिग्गज  , and the Arizona Cardinals .
He was originally signed by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted free agent in  1994 बाद playing  college football at Northern Iowa .
Warner would go  on to be माना the बेहतरीन undrafted  player of all time , following a 12-year career regarded as one of the greatest stories in NFL history .
Warner first  attained  stardom while playing for the St. Louis Rams from 1998 to 2003 , where he won two NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV .
He led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super  Bowl XLIII  ( the franchise 's first Super Bowl berth ) , and owns the three highest single-game passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history .
Warner currently holds the seventh-highest career passer rating of all-time ( 93.7 ) , and the third-highest  करियर  completion percentage in NFL history with 65.5 % .
In 13 career playoff games , Warner ranks first all-time  in  completion percentage ( 66.5 % ) , yards per attempt ( 8.55 ) , and second in passer rating ( 102.8 ) .
He also  holds the highest completion  percentage for a single game during the regular season , at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ) , on September 20 , 2009 , against the Jacksonville Jaguars .
He announced his retirement  on जनवरी 29 ,  2010. < ref name='CNN 2010-01-29 ' >
Janet Kay  ruthven hagan (  ; born May 26 , 1953 ) is the junior United States Senator from North Carolina , in office since January 2009 .
Previously she served in the North Carolina Senate from 1999  to  2009 .
She is a member of the Democratic Party and is viewed as  a moderate  member of her party .
When Hagan defeated  रिपब्लिकन लाज़िम  Elizabeth Dole in the 2008 United States Senate election , she became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election .
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman ) , is awarded annually to the  खिलाड़ी deemed the सबसे बकाया खिलाड़ी in कॉलेजिएट  football .
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club 's athletic director , John Heisman ( former Brown University and University of Pennsylvania player ; head football coach at Oberlin College , Auburn University , Clemson University , Rice University , and the University of Pennsylvania ;  और फ़ुटबॉल , बास्केट , और बेसबॉल सिर  coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ) .
The award is presented by the Heisman Trophy Trust in early  दिसम्बर  before the postseason bowl games .
It is the oldest of several overall awards in college football , including the Maxwell Award , Walter Camp Award , and the AP  Player of the  Year .
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most outstanding player , while the Maxwell Award and Walter Camp Award recognize the best player , and the Archie Griffin Award   recognizes the most valuable player .
The United Nations Command ( UNC ) is the unified command structure for the multinational military forces supporting the Republic  of Korea  ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War .
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North  कोरियाई or dprk  ) invaded South Korea on June 25 , 1950 , the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 82 calling on North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel .
On June 27 , 1950 , it adopted Resolution 83 , recommending that members of the United Nations provide assistance to the  गणतंत्र of कोरियाई  `` to repel the armed attack and to restore international peace and security to the area '' .
Security Council Resolution 84 , adopted on July 7 , 1950 , recommended that members providing military forces and other assistance to South Korea `` make such forces and other  सहायता  available to a unified command under the United States of America '' .
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were `` United Nations forces '' , and United Nations itself  could be माना  a belligerent , in practice the United Nations exercised no control over the combat forces , which were controlled by the United States .
Most observers concluded that the forces under the UNC were not in law United Nations troops , and the acts of  the  UNC were not the acts of the United Nations .
The UNC can be regarded as an alliance   of national armies , operating under the collective right of self-defense .
On August 29 , 1950 , the British Commonwealth 's  27th  Infantry Brigade arrived at Busan to join the UNC , which until then included only ROK and U.S. forces .
The 27th  ब्रिगेड  moved into the Naktong River line west of Daegu .
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid succession ; Australia ,  belgian संयुक्त  Nations Command , Canada , Colombia , Ethiopia , France , Greece , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , New Zealand , the Philippines , Thailand and Turkey .
The Union of South Africa provided air units which fought alongside the  एयर शक्तियां of अन्य  member nations .
Denmark ,  इण्डिया  , Norway , and Sweden provided medical units .
Italy provided a hospital , even though it was not a  un सदस्य  .
The United Nations Command and the Chinese-North Korean Command signed the Korean Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953 , ending the  भारी  fighting .
The armistice   agreement established the Military Armistice Commission ( MAC ) , consisting of representatives of the two signatories , to supervise the implementation of the armistice terms .
The North Korean-Chinese MAC has  महरूम  replaced by Panmumjon Representatives under exclusive North Korean management .
Regular meetings have been stopped , although duty officers of Joint Security Area , commonly   known as the Truce Village of Panmunjom , from each side meet regularly .
Lincoln Heights is an American family drama television series about Eddie Sutton , a  मिशन विस्टा पुलिस अधिकारी  who moves his family back to his old neighborhood , Lincoln Heights , to start a new life and to help out his old neighborhood .
It is a dangerous place to raise a family , and through the many trials the family goes through , they soon learn that settling in is not   as easy as it seems .
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every day life as a street cop in Los Angeles , his kids try to fit in at their new schools and with their   new neighbors .
The show premiered  जनवरी 8 , 2007  on the ABC Family network with 13 episodes ordered for the first season .
It was approved for a  दूसरी ऋतु  , which premiered September 4 , 2007 .
Vanessa Hudgens ' song  , कह ok था  been used in a commercial to promote the second season .
To promote the third  ऋतु , वे  showed clips of Cassie and Charles 's relationship to the song , Crush by the American Idol 's seventh season runner-up , David Archuleta .
To promote season 4 , they 're  using  the song , Avalanche by Marie Digby .
The show 's theme song was written and  performed by bassist  Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard .
On January 29 , 2010 , ABC Family announced the  रद्दीकरण of the श्रेणी बाद चार  seasons .
A Christian denomination is an identifiable religious body under a common name , structure , and  doctrine  within Christianity .
In the Orthodox tradition , churches are divided often along ethnic and  भाषाई लाइनों  , into separate churches and traditions .
Technically , divisions between one group and  another हैं  defined by doctrine and church authority .
Issues such as the  nature of  Jesus , the authority of apostolic succession , eschatology , and papal primacy separate one denomination from another .
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1 billion members , over half of all Christians worldwide , making it the largest denomination for any religion worldwide ( although the  church does  not view itself as a denomination , but as the original pre-denominational church ) .
Protestant denominations comprise roughly 38–39 % of Christians worldwide , and together the  Catholics ,  Protestants , Anglicans , and other closely related denominations comprise Western Christianity .
The Eastern Orthodox Church ,  प्राच्य परंपरागत  Churches and the Assyrian Church of the East are considered Eastern Christian denominations .
Western Christian denominations prevail in  पश्चिमी  Europe and its former colonies .
Eastern Christian denominations are represented mostly in Eastern Europe , the  मध्य  East and North Africa .
Christians have various doctrines about the Church  , the body of faithful  that they believe was established by Jesus Christ , and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations .
Both the Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox consider each of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One Holy  कैथोलिक और अपोस्टोलिक गिरिजाघर  to the exclusion of the other .
Protestants separated from the Catholic Church because of  theologies और practices  that they considered to be in violation of their interpretation .
Generally , members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians , at least to the extent that they have mutually recognized baptisms and acknowledge historically orthodox  views including the Divinity of Jesus and  doctrines of sin and salvation , even though doctrinal and ecclesiological obstacles hinder full communion between churches .
Since the reforms  surrounding वेटिकन ii , the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर  has referred to Protestant communities as `` denominations '' , while reserving the term `` church '' for apostolic churches , including the Eastern Orthodox ( see subsistit in and branch theory ) .
There are   however some non-denominational Christians who do not follow any particular branch .
The panda ( Ailuropoda melanoleuca ,  lit  .
`` black and white cat-foot '' ) , also known as the giant panda to distinguish it from the unrelated red panda , is a bear native to central-western and  south  western China .
It is easily recognized by the large , distinctive  ब्लैक  patches around its eyes , over the ears , and across its round body .
हालांकि it belongs  to the order Carnivora , the panda 's diet is 99 % bamboo .
Pandas in the wild will occasionally eat other grasses , wild tubers , or even meat in the form  of birds ,  rodents or carrion .
In captivity , they may  प्राप्त मधु , अंडे ,  fish , yams , shrub leaves , oranges , or bananas along with specially prepared food .
The giant panda lives in a  few पहाड़ सीमाएँ in सेंट्रल  China , mainly in Sichuan province , but also in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces .
As a result of farming , deforestation and other development , the panda has been driven  आउट of the  lowland areas where it once lived .
The panda is a conservation reliant  endangered  species .
A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in captivity inside China  और another  27 outside the country .
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate  shows कि वहीँ हैं परिचय 1,590  individuals living in the wild , while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated that this figure could be as high as 2,000 to 3,000 .
Some reports also show that the number   of pandas in the wild is on the rise .
However , the IUCN does not believe there  is  enough certainty yet to reclassify the species from Endangered to Vulnerable .
While the dragon has often served as China 's national emblem ,  internationally  the panda appears at least as commonly .
As such , it is becoming widely used within China in international  contexts , लिये उदाहरण  the five Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics .
The Kite Runner is a 2007 American drama film directed by Marc Forster based on the novel of the same name  by Khaled  Hosseini .
It tells  the story  of Amir , a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul , who is tormented by the guilt of abandoning his friend Hassan , the son of his father 's Hazara servant .
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events , from the fall of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the Soviet military intervention , the mass exodus  of अफगान शरणार्थियों to  Pakistan and the United States , and the Taliban regime .
Though most of the film is set in  अफगानिस्तान  , these parts were mostly shot in Kashgar , China , due to the dangers of filming in Afghanistan at the time .
The majority of the film 's  संवाद is in जमींदारी  , with the remainder spoken in English .
The  चाइल्ड  actors are native speakers , but several adult actors had to learn Dari .
Filming wrapped up on December 21 , 2006 , and the film was expected  to be released  on November 2 , 2007 .
However , after concern for the safety of  the यंग अभिनेताओं in the फिल्मी due  to fears of violent reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in which they appear , its release date was pushed back six weeks to December 14 , 2007 .
The Kite  धावक  was released on DVD on March 25 , 2008 .
A HD DVD release was announced for the same date , but was canceled following the format  's  demise .
The film was nominated for the Golden   Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 2007 .
The film 's score by Alberto Iglesias was nominated for  बेहतरीन असली  Score at the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards .
The  वैधता of  cannabis varies from country to country .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the beginning of   widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s .
However , many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of cannabis ,  विशेषकर  in North America , South America and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of Colorado and  वॉशिंगटन if it यहूद नहीं लिये संघीय विधि , जिससे governs  persons in all states .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries , including Canada , the Czech Republic and  इसराईल  .
जबकि  federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis , enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have established medicinal marijuana programs in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but  , apart from the  countries that offer access to medical marijuana , most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation , use  ,  possession or transfer of cannabis for recreational use .
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis , making it punishable by confiscation and a fine ,  बल्कि than कारावास  .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for young or frequent users , with freedom from narcotic   drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
वहीँ हैं भी परिवर्तन in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक दिशा as in कनाडा .
ड्रग परीक्षण to detect कैनबिस हैं increasingly आम in अनेक देशों और have resulted in कारावास वाक्य और लोगों  losing their jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries , particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast  Asia where the sale  of cannabis may lead to a sentence of life in prison or even execution .
Loxahatchee is a community located in Palm Beach  काउंटी , फ्लोरिडा  , United States .
it is स्तिथ in the क्षेत्रों उत्तर of वेलिंगटन और वेस्ट और उत्तरपश्चिम of royal ताड़ बीच , फ्लोरिडा और लगभग वेस्ट of वेस्ट ताड़ बीच .
Loxahatchee is also the name of the Post Office  that  serves this area , which is under the zip code of 33470 .
The name Loxahatchee means `` turtle  नदी  . ''
Loxahatchee is located within the Indian Trails Improvement District and the Loxahatchee Groves Water  कंट्रोल ज़िला  .
Lion Country Safari , a  drive-through  safari park , is located in Loxahatchee .
In 2006 , the state of Florida  स्वीकृत  incorporation of part of Loxahatchee as the Town of Loxahatchee Groves to become the 38th municipality in Palm Beach County .
The main reason for incorporating was to better protect the area from  बुवाई विकास  and to preserve the rural character of the neighborhood .
शायद the सबसे  rural area within a close proximity to West Palm Beach , with lot sizes range from 1-20 acres .
Along with The Acreage , it is notable for loose land restrictions and  the  native and exotic animal presence is quite notable .
Seminole  लकीरें  High School serves the area .
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a test , administered by Citizenship and Immigration Canada ( CIC ) , that is required for all applicants for Canadian citizenship who are aged between 18 and 54 and who meet the  मौलिक आवश्यकताएँ  for citizenship .
The test is available in both French and English , the  आधिकारिक भाषाएं  of Canada .
Renaissance Cruises , originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley & Eger Rederi in Oslo - Norway , later purchased by Edward Rudner ( founder of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered  during the Gulf  War .
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean , the Greek Isles , Tahiti and the  दक्षिण प्रशांत , उत्तरी यूरोपीय  and Scandinavia .
The company ceased operations  on  25 September 2001 and accommodated up to 220,000 guests in 2000 .
While the company had  been  in poor financial health for quite some time , the economic decline resulting from the September 11th terrorist attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line .
The fleet is listed under List  of  cruise ships .
It was headquartered in Fort  lauderdale ,  Florida .
Epithelium  is one of  the four basic types of animal tissue , along with connective tissue , muscle tissue and nervous tissue .
Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of structures throughout the body , and also form  अनेक ग्रंथियों  .
Functions of epithelial cells include secretion , selective absorption , protection , transcellular  हस्तांतरण  and detection of sensation .
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' )  अर्थात्  `` on '' or `` upon '' , and `` θηλή '' ( `` thēlē '' ) means `` nipple '' .
Epithelial layers are avascular , so they must receive nourishment via diffusion of substances from the underlying connective tissue , through the basement  झिल्ली  .
Epithelia  can  also be organized into clusters of cells that function as exocrine and endocrine glands .
Kent E. Hovind ( born  जनवरी  15 , 1953 ) is an American young Earth creationist .
Hovind has spoken on creation science and has aimed to convince listeners to reject theories of evolution , geophysics , and cosmology in favor of   his interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible .
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and some of his ideas have  also been  criticized by young Earth creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis .
Hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991 , and frequently spoke on young Earth creationism at  seminars  at private schools and churches , debates , and on radio and television broadcasts .
चूंकि जनवरी 2007 , hovind रै महरूम सेवारत a ten-year थाना वाक्य बाद होने convicted of 58 संघीय रिश्तो , सहित 12 कर offenses , एक गिनती of obstructing संघीय एजेंटों , और 45 रिश्तो of structuring नकदी ट्रांजेक्शन  .
He is incarcerated  at  the Federal Correctional Institution at Berlin , New Hampshire .
Bride with  बिंदी  decorated forehead
A bindi ( , from Sanskrit bindu  , अर्थ  `` a drop , small particle , dot '' ) , or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil , Telugu , and Malayalam ) is a forehead decoration worn in South Asia ( particularly India , Bangladesh , Nepal , Sri Lanka and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia .
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in the center of the forehead close to the eyebrows , but it can also  consist  of a sign or piece of jewelry worn at this location .
The New York gubernatorial  election  of 2010 was held on Tuesday , November 2 , 2010 , to elect the Governor of New York , to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011 .
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson , elected as  लेफ्टिनेंट  Governor in 2006 as the running mate of former Governor Eliot Spitzer , chose not to run for a full-term .
On November 2 , New York Attorney General and Democrat Andrew Cuomo defeated Republican Carl  paladino  .
Green Party candidate Howie  हॉकिन्स  received over 57,000 votes , allowing the New York Green Party to be listed on the ballot for the next 4 years .
The main cast of Dragon Ball at the  समाप्त  of the manga .
The Dragon Ball manga and anime series features an extensive cast of characters created by  अकिरा toriyama  .
The series takes place in  a fictional  universe , the same as Toriyama 's previous series Dr. Slump , and follows the adventures of martial artist Son Goku from childhood to adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls , used to summon a wish-granting dragon .
During  the कोर्स of the स्टोरी , he मुठभेड़ों  allies such as Bulma , Yamcha , Kuririn and Trunks , rivals such as Tenshinhan , Piccolo and Vegeta , and enemies such as Freeza and Cell .
While many of the characters are humans with superhuman strength and/or supernatural abilities , the cast also includes  anthropomorphic पशु और  later , extraterrestrial lifeforms .
The series also includes depictions of the afterlife , with   several characters being gods that govern the universe .
250px
The Comanche are a Plains Indian tribe whose historic territory , known as  comancheria , consisted of उपस्थित दिन पूर्वी नई मैक्सिको  , southern Colorado , northeastern Arizona , southern Kansas , all of Oklahoma , and most of northwest Texas .
The Comanche people are enrolled in the federally recognized Comanche   Nation , in Oklahoma .
historically  , the Comanches were hunter-gatherers with a horse culture .
वहीँ may have महरूम as अनेक as 45,000 comanches in the लेट 18th सदी .
Today , the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal enrollment numbers 15,191 with approximately 7,763 members residing in the Lawton – Fort Sill and  surrounding  areas of Southwest Oklahoma .
The Comanche Nation Homecoming Powwow is held annually in Walters ,  ओक्लाहोमा  in mid-July .
The Comanche spoke the Comanche language , a Numic language of the Uto-Aztecan  परिवार  , sometimes classified as a Shoshone dialect ; however , only about 1 % of Comanches speak it today .
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the Pulitzer   Prize -winning American author Edith Wharton .
It is set  in  the fictitious town of Starkfield , Massachusetts .
The novel was adapted into a  फिल्मी , ethan  Frome , in 1993 .
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American television studio located in the Times  वर्गाकार  neighborhood of the Manhattan borough of New York City , New York .
the स्टुडियो is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the उत्पादन घर of एबीसी न्यूज ' शुभ morning अमेरिका ( जीएमए ) , a morning न्यूज और बात कार्यक्रम और खण्ड लिये जीएमए on  ABC News Now .
The Las Vegas Strip World of  coca-cola  museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants , and  वेंडिंग मशीने  in every country except Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The  coca-cola कम्पनी in the संयुक्त राज्य चूंकि  March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent  आयुर्विज्ञान जब it थी invented in the  late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to  licensed coca-cola  bottlers throughout the world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company , produce finished  उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों  from the concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell , distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to  खुदरा  stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the   largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and food  सेवा वितरकों  .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion , introduced other  कोला पेय अंतर्गत the कोक  brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and  खास संस्करण साथ  lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011 ,   Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
प्रकार  of bar-lines
In musical notation , a bar ( or measure  ) is a खण्ड of समय  defined by a given number of beats , each of which are assigned a particular note value .
Dividing  म्यूज़िक  into bars provides regular reference points to pin point locations within a piece of music .
It also makes written music easier to follow , since each bar of staff symbols can  be  read and played as a batch .
Typically , a piece consists of several bars of the same length , and in modern musical  संकेतन the क्रमांक of बीट्स in प्रत्येक बार is निर्दिष्ट at  the beginning of the score by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ) , while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ) .
The word bar is more common in British English , and the word measure is more common in American English , although   musicians generally understand both usages .
In  अमरीकी  English , although the words bar and measure are often used interchangeably the correct use of the word 'bar ' refers only to the vertical line itself , while the word 'measure ' refers to the beats contained between bars .
In international usage , it is equally correct to speak  of बार संख्याएँ  and measure numbers , e.g . ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm . 9–16’ .
Along the same lines , it is wise to reserve the  abbreviated रूप  ‘bb .
3–4’ etc . for beats only ; bars should be referred to by name  in  full .
The first metrically complete measure within a piece of music is  called ‘bar  1’ or ‘m . 1’ .
When the piece begins with an anacrusis ( an incomplete measure at the head of a piece of music ) , ‘bar 1’  or ‘m  . 1’ is the following measure .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply  शक्ति  24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the sun , has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of  ever-evolving  technologies .
Solar  उर्जा technologies शामिल सौर हीटिंग , सौर photovoltaics , सौर थर्मल विद्युत , सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis , जिससे can मेक considerable योगदान to solving कुछ of the सबसे तात्कालिक उर्जा समस्याएं the संसार अभी चेहरों .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active  सौर depending  on the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels  और सौर थर्मल collectors  to harness the energy .
Passive  सौर तकनीकों शामिल orienting a भवन to the सूर्य , selecting सामग्री साथ अनुकूल थर्मल द्रव्यमान or लाइट dispersing गुण , और डिजाइनिंग स्पेसेस कि naturally circulate एयर .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable ,  inexhaustible  and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous ,  inexhaustible और ज़्यादातर import-independent संसाधन  , enhance sustainability , reduce pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These advantages are  वैश्विक  .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments ; they must be  wisely  spent and need to be widely shared '' .
Primary care may be provided  in जातियाँ  health centres .
Primary care is the health care given by a health   care provider .
Typically this provider acts as the  प्रिंसिपल पाइंट of परामर्श  for patients within a health care system and coordinates other specialists that the patient may need .
Such a professional can be a primary care physician , such as a general practitioner or family physician , or depending on the locality , health system organization , and patient 's discretion , they may see a pharmacist , a physician assistant , a nurse practitioner , a nurse ( such as in the United Kingdom ) , a clinical  अधिकारी ( ऐसे as in भाग  of Africa ) , or an Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ) .
Depending on the nature of the health condition , patients may then be referred  लिये द्वितीयक or tertiary परवाह .
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a song recorded by American pop punk  समूह yellowcard  .
It was released in February 2004 as the second single from  Ocean  Avenue and the third track .
It is known for bringing them into the mainstream  , as it  received numerous spins on MTV and increasing radio airplay .
Ocean Avenue is a street in Jacksonville , Florida , the band 's stomping grounds  निकट  their high school , Douglas Anderson School of the Arts , and another street mentioned in the song , Cherry Street .
The name of Ocean Avenue in Jacksonville is  दरअसल बीच boulevard  .
They  बाएँ  their original base behind when they moved to Los Angeles .
The song was featured on  the much  Music compilation album Big Shiny Tunes 9 .
A psychiatrist is a  चिकित्सक  who specializes in psychiatry .
A psychiatrist specializes in the treatment of mental  विकार  .
Psychiatrists are authorized to prescribe medicine , conduct physical examinations , order and interpret laboratory tests , use psychotherapy and may order brain imaging studies such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ) , magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI )  , और positron उत्सर्जन टोमोग्राफी ( पालतु )  scanning .
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( WHO )  परिभाषा of स्वास्थ्य as a राज्य of पूरा शारीरिक , दिमागी और सोशल well-being , और  not merely the absence of disease or infirmity , reproductive health , or sexual health/hygiene , addresses the reproductive processes , functions and system at all stages of life .
Reproductive health , therefore , implies that people are able to have a responsible , satisfying and safer sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if , when and how often to do  so  .
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe , effective , affordable and acceptable methods of birth  कंट्रोल ; भी अभिगम to उचित स्वास्थ्य परवाह  services of sexual , reproductive medicine and implementation of health education programs to stress the importance of women to go safely through pregnancy and childbirth could provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy infant .
On the other hand individuals do face  inequalities  in reproductive health services .
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic status  , शिक्षा  level , age , ethnicity , religion , and resources available in their environment .
it is संभावित लिये उदाहरण , कि कम आय individuals कमी the संसाधन लिये उचित स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं और the ज्ञान to जान कया is उचित लिये maintaining reproductive  health .
according  to the WHO , `` Reproductive and sexual ill-health accounts for 20 % of the global burden of ill-health for women , and 14 % for men . ''
Reproductive health is a part of Sexual and reproductive   health and rights .
This is a list of episodes   for the Disney Channel original series The Suite Life on Deck , which aired for three seasons on Disney Channel from September 26 , 2008 to May 6 , 2011 .
कोर 2 is a ब्रांड encompassing a दायरा of इंटेल 's उपभोक्ता 64-bit x86-64 single- , दुआl- , और quad-core microprocessors आधारित on the कोर microarchitecture  .
The single- and dual-core models are single- die , whereas the quad-core   models comprise two dies , each containing two cores , packaged in a multi-chip module .
The introduction of  कोर 2 relegated the pentium ब्रांड to the mid-range मार्केट , और reunified लैपटॉप और डेस्कटॉप cpu लाइनों , जिससे previously था महरूम विभाजित into the pentium 4 , pentium d , और pentium m ब्रांड्स .
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006 , comprising the Solo ( single-core ) , Duo ( dual-core ) , Quad ( quad-core ) , and in 2007 , the Extreme ( dual- or  quad-core cpu  for enthusiasts ) subbrands .
Intel Core 2  processors साथ vpro प्रौद्योगिकी  ( designed for businesses ) include the dual-core and quad-core branches .
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the National Football League ( NFL ) , the highest level of professional  American  football in the United States , culminating a season that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year .
the  Super Bowl uses Roman numerals to identify each game , rather than the year in which it is held .
For example , Super Bowl I was played on January 15 , 1967 , following the 1966 regular season , while Super Bowl  XLVII was played  on February 3 , 2013 , following the 2012 season .
The game was created as part of a merger agreement between the NFL and its then-rival league , the American Football  लीग ( afl  ) .
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion teams would play in an AFL–NFL  संसार  Championship Game until the merger was to officially begin in 1970 .
After the merger , each league was redesignated as a `` conference `` , and the game  थी तब निभाई between  the conference champions .
फिलहाल  , the National Football Conference ( NFC ) leads the series with 25 wins to 22 wins for the American Football Conference ( AFC ) .
The day on which the Super Bowl is played , now considered by some a de facto American   national holiday , is called `` Super Bowl Sunday `` .
It is the second-largest day for U.S. food consumption , after Thanksgiving Day   .
In addition , the Super Bowl has  अक्सर महरूम  the most watched American television broadcast of the year .
Super Bowl XLV , played in 2011 , became the   most-watched American television program in history , drawing an average audience of 111 million viewers and taking over the spot held by the previous year 's Super Bowl , which itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H .
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting events in the world , almost all being North American audiences ,  and is second to  association football ’s UEFA Champions League final as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide .
Because of its high viewership , commercial airtime during the Super Bowl broadcast is the most expensive  of the year  .
Due to the high cost of investing in advertising on the Super  कटोरी  , companies regularly develop their most expensive advertisements for this broadcast .
As a result ,  watching  and discussing the broadcast 's commercials has become a significant aspect of the event .
In addition , many popular singers and musicians have performed during the event 's pre-game and halftime  ceremonies  because of the exposure .
Fiona is a feminine given  नाम .
The name Fiona was invented , and first used , by the Scottish poet James Macpherson ( 1736–96 ) , author of the Ossian poems , which he claimed were translations from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources , when challenged  , he never  produced ) .
The name was subsequently used as a pseudonym by William Sharp ( 1855–1905 ) , who authored several romantic  works अंतर्गत the नाम ``  Fiona Macleod '' .
The name has since become popular in England ,  स्कॉटलैंड और  Ireland .
The name is considered to be a Latinised form of the Gaelic word fionn ,  अर्थ `` श्वेत  '' , `` fair '' .
The name Fiona is also sometimes used as an Anglicisation of the Irish-language name Fíona , although these names are otherwise unrelated (  as fíona  is derived from an element meaning `` vine '' ) .
There is also a modern  tendency  to equate the authentic Scottish Gaelic feminine name Fionnghal with Fiona .
The name Fiona is rising in popularity  विशेषकर  in German -speaking countries .
फिओना  was the 49th most popular name for baby girls born in 2008 in Germany .
Fiona was tied for third place in the ranking of most popular names for baby girls born in the tiny principality  of  Liechtenstein in 2008 .
The name was the 347th most popular name for girls born in the United  राज्य in 2008 , जहाँ it रै क्रमित  among the top 1,000 most popular names for girls since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999 .
The name Fiona has been  विशेषकर लोकप्रिय लिये लड़कियों  of Asian or Pacific Islander descent in New York City , where Fiona ranked as the ninth most popular name for girls from those groups in 2007 .
Many languages are  प्रयुक्त , or historically  have been used in the United States .
The most commonly used language  is  English .
There  are  also many languages indigenous to North America or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific region .
Languages brought to the country by colonists or   immigrants from Europe , Asia , or other parts of the world make up a large portion of the languages currently used ; several languages , including creoles and sign languages , have also developed in the United States .
Approximately 337 languages  are  spoken or signed by the population , of which 176 are indigenous to the area .
Fifty-two  भाषाएं  formerly spoken in the country 's territory are now extinct .
The  किस्में  of English spoken in the United States is known as American English .
English is the de facto national  भाषा of the  United States , with 80 % of the population claiming it as a mother tongue , and some 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or `` very well '' .
however , no आधिकारिक भाषा exists at the संघीय स्तर  .
There  have महरूम अनेक प्रस्ताव to मेक अंग्रेज़ी the नेशनल भाषा in amendments to आव्रजन सुधार बिल्स , लकिन none of ये बिल्स रै become विधि साथ the amendment बरकरार .
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial  स्तर , साथ कुछ राज्य mirroring the संघीय नीति of adopting no आधिकारिक भाषा in a de jure क्षमता , अन्य adopting अंग्रेज़ी अलोन , अन्य officially adopting अंग्रेज़ी as खूब as लोकल भाषाएं , और स्टिल अन्य adopting a नीति of de facto bilingualism .
Spanish is the second most common language in the country , and is spoken  by over 12 % of the  population .
The United States holds the world 's fifth largest Spanish-speaking  जनसांख्यिकी , outnumbered तभी  by Mexico , Spain , Colombia , and Argentina .
Throughout the Southwestern United States , long-established Spanish-speaking  समुदायों coexist साथ विशाल संख्याएँ of  more recent Hispanophone immigrants .
हालांकि अनेक नई लैटिन अमरीकी आप्रवासियों हैं कम than धाराप्रवाह in अंग्रेज़ी , nearly सब second-generation हिस्पैनिक अमेरिकी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी धड़ल्ले , जबकि तभी परिचय हाफ स्टिल बोलो स्पेनी .
According to the 2000 US census , people of German ancestry make up the largest single ethnic group in the  United  States , and the German language ranks fifth .
इतालवी , पॉलिश , और फ्रेंच हैं स्टिल widely बोला among populations descending इससे आप्रवासियों इससे those देशों in the जल्दी 20th सदी , लकिन the उपयोग of ये भाषाएं is dwindling as the पुरानी पीढियां die .
Russian is  भी बोला  by immigrant populations .
Tagalog and Vietnamese have over one million speakers each in the United States , almost entirely within  हाल  immigrant populations .
Both languages , along with the varieties of the Chinese language , Japanese , and Korean , are now used in elections in   Alaska , California , Hawaii , Illinois , New York , Texas , and Washington .
Native American languages are spoken in smaller pockets of the country , but these populations are decreasing , and the  भाषाएं हैं लगभग  never widely used outside of reservations .
Hawaiian , although having few native speakers , is an  आधिकारिक  language along with English at the state level in Hawaii .
The state government of Louisiana offers services and  दस्तावेज़  in French , as does New Mexico in Spanish .
Besides English ,  स्पेनी  , French , German , Navajo and other Native American languages , all other languages are usually learned from immigrant ancestors that came after the time of independence or learned through some form of education .
1990 's Pontiac Grand Am Sedan fender and  क्वार्टर फलक
On an automobile , a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is  known in British English ) is usually considered the  body panel which goes between the rear door and the trunk and typically wraps around the wheel well ; however , the similar front section Fender ( vehicle ) , between the door and the hood , is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel .
The quarter panel is typically made of Sheet metal , but is sometimes made of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced  प्लास्टिक  ; although , this varies with different makes and models .
A quarter panel is typically a welded  on  component of the uni-body structure or Monocoque .
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter panel   typically requires it to be cut off the vehicle and a replacement part to be welded ( or sometimes bonded ) to the Vehicle .
Due to this high amount of specialized labor , a quarter panel may often be repaired rather than replaced by hammering out the damage , and a  देह फिलर sometimes  referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface .
Shropshire ( or ; alternatively Salop ; abbreviated , in print only , Shrops ) is a  काउंटी in  the West Midlands region of England .
It borders Wales to the west , Cheshire to the north , Staffordshire to the east , Worcestershire to the  south-east  and Herefordshire to the south .
A unitary authority ( Shropshire Council )  was  created on 1 April 2009 , taking over from the previous county council and 5 district councils , and covers most of the county .
The borough of Telford and Wrekin has been a separate unitary  authority  since 1998 but continues to be included in the ceremonial county .
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county town of Shrewsbury , which is culturally and historically important and is located in the centre of the county ; Telford , a new town in the east which was constructed around a number of older towns , most notably Wellington , Dawley and Madeley , which is today the most populous ; and Oswestry in the north-west , Bridgnorth just to the south  of telford ,  and Ludlow in the south .
The county has many further market towns , including  whitchurch in the उत्तर  , Newport just to the north-east of Telford , and Market Drayton in the north-east of the county .
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a UNESCO World Heritage Site , covering Ironbridge , Coalbrookdale and  a  part of Madeley .
There are , additionally , other notable historic industrial sites located around the county , such as at Shrewsbury ,  broseley , snailbeach  and Highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal .
The  shropshire  Hills Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty covers about a quarter of the county , mainly in the south .
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural  and  sparsely populated counties , with the population density of the Shropshire Council area being just 91/km2 ( 337/sq mi ) .
The Wrekin is one of the most famous natural landmarks in the county , though the highest hills are  the Clee Hills ,  Stiperstones and the Long Mynd .
Wenlock Edge is another significant geographical and geological  लैंडमार्क  .
In the low-lying northwest of the county ( and overlapping  the border with Wales ) is the Fenn 's ,  Whixall and Bettisfield Mosses National Nature Reserve , one of the most important and best preserved bogs in Britain .
The River Severn , Great Britain 's longest river , runs  through  the county , exiting into Worcestershire via the Severn Valley .
shropshire is landlocked  , and with an area of , is England 's largest inland county .
The county flower   is the round-leaved sundew .
For Eurostat purposes , the county ( less the unitary district of Telford and   Wrekin ) is a NUTS 3 region ( code UKG22 ) .
The two  shropshire एकात्मक क्षेत्रों ( covering सब of  the ceremonial county ) , together with the authorities covering the ceremonial county of Staffordshire , comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region .
The Big  Bang  Theory cast at Comic Con 2009 , from left : Kunal Nayyar , Simon Helberg , Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory , created and executive produced  by चक  Lorre and Bill Prady , premiered on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
The show  centers on  five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter , two Caltech physicists ; Penny , a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz , and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist colleague , and , at different times , a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , a microbiologist , Howard 's  fiancée और subsequent बीवी , और पूर्व part-time वेट्रेस  alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The show also features numerous supporting characters , each of whom  plays  a prominent role in a small group of episodes .
The A-Team is an American   action-adventure television series , running from 1983 to 1987 , about a fictional group of ex– United States Army Special Forces personnel who work as soldiers of fortune , while on the run from the Army after being branded as war criminals for a `` crime they did n't commit `` .
A feature film based on the series was   released by 20th Century Fox on June 11 , 2010 .
A comic book  श्रेणी ,  A-Team : Shotgun Wedding , began March 9 , 2010 .
Diana Prince is a fictional character   appearing regularly in stories published by DC Comics .
She debuted in  सनसनी कॉमिक्स  # 1 ( January 1942 ) and serves as the civilian and secret identity of the superhero Wonder Woman .
The character was  निर्मित by चार्ल्स  Moulton and Harry G. Peter .
Wat Phra Kaew  , बैंकॉक  , Thailand
There  is  no official state religion in the Thai constitution , which guarantees religious freedom for all Thai citizens , though the king is required by law to be Buddhist .
According to the last census ( 2000  ) 94.6  % of Thais are Buddhists of the Theravada tradition .
Muslims are   the second largest religious group in Thailand at 4.6 % .
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani , Yala , Narathiwat and   part of Songkhla Chumphon have dominant Muslim populations , consisting of both ethnic Thai and Malay .
The southern tip  of  Thailand is mostly ethnic Malays .
ईसाइयों  , mainly Catholics , represent 0.7 % of the population .
A small but influential community of Sikhs in Thailand  और कुछ  Hindus also live in the country 's cities , and are heavily engaged in retail commerce .
There is  भी a छोटी यहूदी जातियाँ in थाईलैंड , डेटिंग वापस to the 17th सदी .
Since 2001 , Muslim activists , generally described by the Thai government as terrorists or separatists  , have rallied against  the central government because of alleged corruption and ethnic bias on the part of officials .
Thailand 's Department of Religion , currently under the Ministry of Culture , is formally responsible for the registration of religious groups in  Thailand URL_http which hold  properties through legally established foundations .
It has oversight , along with the Immigration  पुलिस , over the कार्य  permits of missionaries who are `` expatriate religious workers '' of all religions .
A value added tax ( VAT ) is  a रूप of खपत  tax .
From the perspective of the buyer , it is a tax  on  the purchase price .
इससे कि of the विक्रेता , it is a कर तभी on the मान added to a उत्पाद , सामग्री , or सेवा , इससे an हिसाब पाइंट of दृश्य , by इस स्टेज of इसके manufacture or वितरण .
The manufacturer remits to the government the difference between these two amounts , and retains the rest for themselves to offset the taxes they had  previously  paid on the inputs .
the मान added to a उत्पाद by or साथ a कारोबार is the बिक्री दाम चार्ज to इसके ग्राहक , ऋण the लागत of सामग्री और अन्य taxable inputs .
A VAT is like a sales tax in that ultimately only the end consumer is  taxed  .
It differs from the sales tax in that , with the latter , the tax is collected and remitted to the   government only once , at the point of purchase by the end consumer .
With the VAT , collections  , remittances  to the government , and credits for taxes already paid occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases products .
a रेफरी कॉलिंग a high-sticking penaltyhigh
-sticking is the name of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that may occur when a player intentionally or inadvertently plays with his or  her stick above the height of the shoulders  or above the cross bar of a hockey goal .
इस can परिणाम  in a stoppage of play or in a penalty .
In the rules of the National Hockey League , high-sticking is defined as a penalty in Rule 60  और as a non-penalty  foul in Rule 80 .
a stoppage in खेल परिणाम if a ऊँची स्टिक आता in सम्पर्क साथ the पक और the टोली जो छुआ it regains कंट्रोल of the  puck .
However , play usually continues  if a  player touches the puck with a high stick and the opposing team gains control of the puck .
If the puck goes into the opposing  net after  coming into contact with a high stick , the goal is disallowed .
The level at which a stick is considered  too ऊँची  for a goal is the crossbar of the net .
However , if a player knocks the puck into his own net with  a ऊँची  stick , the goal is allowed .
A penalty is assessed if a player  हमलों another खिलाड़ी  with a high stick .
The player is  दिए a नाबालिग दंड  unless his high stick caused an injury , in which case the referee has the option to assess a double-minor , major or match penalty .
It is the  रेफरी  's discretion which penalty to assess : the rule calls for a double minor for an accidental injury , or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ) .
Injury  is usually decided  by the high stick causing bleeding , but the presence of blood does not automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded .
Some referees have been known to award an extra penalty without the presence of blood if the referee determines that the injury sustained was sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty   .
ठेठ  modern memory card reader , compatible with many common formats
A memory card reader is a  device ,  typically having a USB interface , for accessing the data on a memory card such as a CompactFlash ( CF ) , Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ) .
Most card readers also offer write capability , and together with  the  card , this can function as a pen drive .
Some printers and personal computers have a built-in  कार्ड रीडर  .
A multi card reader is used for communication with more than  one type of  flash memory card .
Multi card readers do not have built-in  मेमोरी  capacity , but are able to accept multiple types and styles of memory cards .
The number of compatible memory cards varies from  रीडर  to reader and can include more than 20 different types .
The number of different memory cards that a multi card reader can accept is expressed as x-in-1 , with x   being a figure of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted , such as 35-in-1 .
There are three categories of card readers sorted by the type and quantity of the card slots : single card reader ( e.g . 1x SD-only ) , multi card reader ( e.g . 9-in-1 ) and series card  रीडर ( e.g . 4x sd  only ) .
Some kinds of memory cards with their own USB functions do not need the card reader , such as the  बुद्धिमान  Stick memory card , which can plug directly into a USB slot .
The USB device   class used is 0x08 .
Bullying is detrimental to students ' well-being and  विकास  .
Bullying is the use of force  or coercion  to abuse or intimidate others .
The behavior can be habitual and involve an imbalance of social or  शारीरिक  power .
It can include verbal harassment or threat , physical assault or coercion and may be directed repeatedly towards particular victims , perhaps on grounds of race , religion , gender ,  कामुकता , or क्षमता  .
If bullying is done by a  समूह  , it is called mobbing .
the शिकार  of bullying is sometimes referred to as a `` target '' .
धमकाना can  be defined in many different ways .
The UK  फिलहाल रै no विधिक परिभाषा  of bullying , while some U.S. states have laws against it .
Bullying consists of three basic types of  गाली – emotional  , verbal , and physical .
It typically involves subtle methods of  coercion  such as intimidation .
Bullying ranges from simple one-on-one bullying to  अधिक जटिल धमकाना  in which the bully may have one or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities .
Bullying in school and the workplace is also referred to as peer  गाली  .
Robert W. Fuller has  analyzed  bullying in the context of rankism .
A bullying culture can develop in any   context in which human beings interact with each other .
This includes school , church ,  परिवार  , the workplace , home , and neighborhoods .
Happy slapping in the Instituto Regional Federico Errázuriz , Santa Cruz  ,  Chile
Laura Bush and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4 , 2007 , in Austin  , Texas , after  the 8-year-old introduced Mrs. Bush during announcement of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children .
Rae Leigh was the first child in the U.S. to be recovered as a result of an AMBER Alert when she was  8 सप्ताह बूढ़ा in नवम्बर  1998 .
An AMBER Alert or a Child Abduction Emergency ( SAME code : CAE ) is  a चाइल्ड abduction  alert system originating in 1996 , now employed in 9 countries .
AMBER is officially a backronym for America 's Missing : Broadcasting Emergency Response , named for Amber  hagerman  , a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington , Texas in 1996 .
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia , `` Levi 's Call '' ( named after Levi Frady ) ; in Hawaii , `` Maile  Amber Alert ''  ( after Maile Gilbert ) ; and Arkansas , `` Morgan Nick Amber Alert '' ( in memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ) .
AMBER Alerts are distributed via commercial radio stations , Internet radio , satellite radio , television stations , and cable TV by the Emergency Alert System and NOAA Weather Radio ( where  वे हैं termed `` चाइल्ड abduction  Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ) .
The alerts are also issued via e-mail , electronic traffic-condition signs , the LED billboards which are located outside of newer Walgreens locations ,   along with the LED/LCD signs of billboard companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor , CBS Outdoor and Lamar , or through wireless device SMS text messages .
AMBER Alert has also teamed up with Google and Facebook to  रिले सूचना  regarding an AMBER Alert to an ever growing demographic .
those  interested in subscribing to receive AMBER Alerts in their area via SMS messages can visit Wireless Amber Alerts , which are offered by law as free messages .
In some states , the display scrollboards in  सामने of लॉटरी  terminals are also used .
The decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each police organization ( in many cases , the state  पुलिस  or highway patrol ) which investigates each of the abductions .
Public information in an AMBER Alert usually consists of the name and description of the abductee ,  a description of the suspected  abductor , and a description and license plate number of the abductor 's vehicle , if available .
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the  श्वेत हाउस in 1995  and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which included  क्लिंटन  's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
House   of Night is a series of vampire -themed fantasy novels by American author P. C. Cast and her daughter Kristin Cast .
It follows the adventures of Zoey Redbird , a sixteen-year-old girl who has just become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is  जरूरी  to attend the House of Night boarding school in Tulsa , Oklahoma .
The series has been on the New York Times Best Seller list for 63 weeks and there are over  सात लाख  copies in print in North America alone .
The sixth novel , Tempted , which went on sale on  अक्तूबर 27 , 2009 साथ a पहला  printing of a million copies , entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1 .
In January , 2010 , Gezeichnet , a German translation of Marked ,  पहुँचे the #  1 spot on the Der Spiegel bestseller list .
The series has so far sold more than ten million books   in 39 countries .
Burned was released on April 27 , 2010 , and like Tempted , it entered the USA Today  bestseller  list that week at # 1 .
Awakened , released in January , 2011 , also  डाला  the list at # 1 .
The series , which is published by St Martin 's  दबायें is नियोजित to शामिल  twelve books .
In 2008 , plans for a film adaptation were also  घोषित .
the दसवाँ किताब in the श्रेणी , छुपा , थी released on अक्तूबर 16 , 2012 .
The second book in the  novellas ( जिससे  give backgrounds on supporting characters ) , Lenobia 's Vow , was released January 31 , 2012 .
Book eleven is currently called Revealed , and the Casts have announced that two more novellas , Neferet’s Curse , planned to be released February 19 , 2013 , and a  प्रीक्वेल अनोखा परिचय kalona  , are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books .
In Greek mythology , the Trojan War was waged against the city of Troy by the Achaeans ( Greeks  ) बाद  Paris of Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus king of Sparta .
The war is one of the most important events in Greek mythology and has been narrated through many works of Greek literature  ,  most notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey .
The Iliad  relates a  part of the last year of the siege of Troy ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus 's journey home .
Other parts of the war are contained in a cycle of epic poems  , which  have survived through fragments .
Episodes from the war provided material for Greek  tragedy and  other works of Greek literature , and for Roman poets including Virgil and Ovid .
The war  originated इससे a झगड़ा between the देवियाँ एथेना , hera , और aphrodite , बाद eris , the देवी of संघर्ष और अनबन , दिया उन्हें a सुनहरी ठहराना , sometimes ज्ञात as the ठहराना of अनबन , चिह्नित `` लिये the fairest '' .
Zeus sent the goddesses to Paris  ,  who judged that Aphrodite , as the `` fairest '' , should receive the apple .
in एक्सचेंज , aphrodite बना हेलेन , the सबसे खूबसूरत of सब महिलाओं और बीवी of menelaus , पतन in प्रेम साथ पेरिस , जो took उसके to ट्रॉय  .
Agamemnon , king of Mycenae  और the bhai  of Helen 's husband Menelaus , led an expedition of Achaean troops to Troy and besieged the city for ten years because of Paris ' insult .
After the deaths of many heroes , including the Achaeans Achilles and Ajax , and the Trojans Hector  और पेरिस  , the city fell to the ruse of the Trojan Horse .
The Achaeans  slaughtered the ट्रोजन्स  ( except for some of the women and children whom they kept or sold as slaves ) and desecrated the temples , thus earning the gods ' wrath .
Few of  the achaeans  returned safely to their homes and many founded colonies in distant shores .
The Romans later traced their origin to Aeneas , one of the Trojans , who was said to have led  the surviving ट्रोजन्स  to modern-day Italy .
The  प्राचीन  Greeks thought that the Trojan War was a historical event that had taken place in the 13th or 12th century BC , and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles .
By modern times , both the  युद्ध और the  city were widely believed to be non-historical .
In 1868 , however , the German archaeologist Heinrich  schliemann मिले फ़्रैंक calvert , जो  convinced Schliemann that Troy was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this claim is now accepted by most scholars .
whether वहीँ is कोई ऐतिहासिक वास्तविकता पीछे the trojan युद्ध is an खोलें सवाल  .
Many scholars believe that there is a historical core to the tale , though this may simply  mean that the Homeric  stories are a fusion of various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age .
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a specific historical conflict usually date it to the 12th or 11th   centuries BC , often preferring the dates given by Eratosthenes , 1194–1184 BC , which roughly corresponds with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy VIIa .
Anarchists have employed certain symbols for their cause , including most prominently the circle-A and the black flag ,  हालांकि anarchists  have historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political movement .
Since the revival of anarchism around the start of  the 21st-century  concurrent with the rise of the anti-globalization movement , anarchist cultural symbols are widely present .
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a  ड्योढ़ी  in the skull that transmits the greater palatine artery , vein , and nerve between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity .
Surface temperature of Antarctica in winter and summer from the  यूरोपीय केन्द्र  for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts
The climate of Antarctica is the coldest on the  पूरे  of Earth .
Antarctica  रै the न्यूनतम naturally occurring  temperature ever recorded on the ground on Earth : −89.2 °C ( −128.6 °F ) at Vostok Station .
It is also  अत्यधिक शुष्क ( technically a मरुस्थल  ) , averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in ) of precipitation per year .
Even so , on most parts of the continent the snow rarely melts and is eventually compressed to become the glacial ice that makes up  the बर्फ चादर  .
मौसम  fronts rarely penetrate far into the continent .
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap climate ( Köppen EF )  साथ बहुत ठंडा , generally  extremely dry weather throughout the year and no month averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ) .
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET ) with a short  summer averaging  above freezing , and much higher precipitation .
Current head coach Mike Tomlin , during the 2007   season
The Pittsburgh Steelers franchise has  था 16  head coaches throughout its history .
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in  ,  the name was changed to the Steelers prior to the season to celebrate the city 's heritage of producing steel .
Joe Bach served two separate   terms as head coach and Walt Kiesling served three separate terms .
During the and seasons , due to the amount of players who fought in World War II , the  स्टीलर्स संयुक्त  their team with Philadelphia and Chicago , respectively .
During these seasons , Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared coaching duties with Greasy Neale and Phil Handler , who  have  not been included within this list .
struggling लिये much of the मताधिकार 's जल्दी सालो , the टोली 's पहला ऋतु साथ अधिक विन्स than नुकसान थी coached by jock sutherland in  .
In , under Sutherland , the  स्टीलर्स  played their first playoff game against the Philadelphia Eagles .
Ten of the 16 head coaches spent  उनके संपूर्ण पेशेवर  coaching careers with the franchise , including John McNally , Walt Kiesling and Chuck Noll , who have also been voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame .
One of only four men to coach the same team for 23 years  ,  Chuck Noll retired in .
Noll  is भी the तभी कोच  in National Football League history to win four Super Bowls .
Bill Cowher , Noll 's replacement , coached the Steelers to their fifth Super Bowl victory  , in  2005 .
The  Steelers sixth  Super Bowl win came in Super Bowl XLIII , while head coached by Mike Tomlin , the team 's current head coach .
In criminal law , fraud is intentional deception made for personal gain or to  क्षति another व्यक्तिगत  ; the related adjective is fraudulent , and verb is defraud .
Fraud is a crime and a civil  विधि  violation , though the specific criminal law definition varies by legal jurisdiction .
Defrauding people or entities  of धन or valuables  is a common purpose of fraud .
A  hoax भी involves deception  , but without the intention of gain or of damaging or depriving the victim .
Fraud  is a रक्षा  in a civil action for breach of contract or specific performance of a contract .
Fraud is a   basis for equitable jurisdiction .
Passover , or Pesach ( from  : in यहूदी , यहूदी ) , tiberian  : , Modern Hebrew : /ˈpesaχ/ Pesah , Pesakh , Yiddish : Peysekh , Paysakh , Paysokh ) is an important Biblically -derived Jewish festival .
Historically , together with Shavuot ( `` Pentecost '' ) and Sukkot ( `` Tabernacles '' ) , Passover is  एक of the  three pilgrimage festivals ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem .
samaritans स्टिल  make this pilgrimage to Mount Gerizim , but only men participate in public worship .
Passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew month of Nisan and lasts for either seven days ( in Israel ) or eight days  ( in  the diaspora ) .
In Judaism , a day commences at dusk and lasts until the following dusk , thus the first day of Passover only begins after dusk of the 14th of Nisan and ends at dusk of the 15th day of  the month  of Nisan .
The rituals unique to the Passover celebrations commence with the Passover Seder when the  15th of nisan रै  begun .
In the Northern Hemisphere Passover  takes प्लेस in वसन्त  as the Torah prescribes it : `` in the month of [ the ] spring '' ( בחדש האביב ) .
It is one of the most widely observed   Jewish holidays .
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 years ago by God from  गुलामी in  ancient Egypt that was ruled by the Pharaohs , and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses .
it commemorates the स्टोरी of the exodus as वर्णित in the यहूदी बाइबल विशेषकर in the किताब of exodus , in जिससे the israelites यहूद freed  from slavery in Egypt .
In the narrative of the Exodus , the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel escape from their  slavery in  Egypt by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born .
The Israelites were instructed to mark the doorposts of their homes   with the blood of a slaughtered spring lamb and , upon seeing this , the spirit of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in these homes , hence the name of the holiday .
There is some debate over  जहाँ  the term is actually derived from .
When the Pharaoh freed the Israelites , it is said that they left in such  a  hurry that they could not wait for bread dough to rise ( leaven ) .
In commemoration , for the duration of Passover no leavened bread is eaten  , लिये जिससे कारण  it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread '' .
Thus Matzo ( flat   unleavened bread ) is eaten during Passover and it is a symbol of the holiday .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ) , officially designated 1P/Halley , is the best-known of the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76  सालो  .
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly  दृश्य to the  naked eye from Earth , and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and more spectacular , but will appear only once in  हज़ारों  of years .
Halley 's returns to the inner  Solar  System have been observed and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the  धूमकेतु 's दिखावे  were made by Chinese , Babylonian , and medieval European chroniclers , but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time .
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond  Halley , after whom it is  now named .
Halley  's धूमकेतु  last appeared in the inner Solar System in 1986 and will next appear in mid-2061 .
During its 1986 apparition , Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft , providing the first observational data on the structure of a comet  केंद्रक और the यांत्रिकी  of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model , which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed  of a मिश्रण of  volatile ices – such as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The missions  भी provided आंकड़ा  which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that only a small portion of it is icy .
Anti-communism is  विपक्ष  to communism .
Organized anti-communism developed in reaction to   the rise of communism , especially after the 1917 October Revolution in Russia and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War .
Most  anti-communists अस्वीकृत the अवधारणा of ऐतिहासिक भौतिकवाद , जिससे is a सेंट्रल विचार in मार्क्सवाद .
anti-communists अस्वीकृत  the Marxist belief that capitalism will be followed by socialism and communism , just as feudalism was followed by capitalism .
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist claim that the socialist  राज्य होगा  `` wither away '' when it becomes unnecessary in a true communist society .
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the early years of Bolshevik rule , while not as extreme as that during Joseph Stalin 's rule , was still severe by reasonable standards , citing examples such as Felix Dzerzhinsky  's secret police , which eliminated numerous  political opponents by extrajudicial executions , and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion .
Some anti-communists refer to both Communism and fascism as totalitarianism , seeing   similarity between the actions of communist and fascist governments .
Historian Robert Conquest has argued that Communism was responsible for tens of  लाखो of मौतों दौरान  the 20th century .
Opponents argue that Communist parties that have come to  शक्ति have tended  to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition .
These  प्रतिद्वंद्वियों अर्जी कि सबसे कम्युनिस्ट देशों have दिखाया no लक्षण of advancing इससे मार्क्स 's समाजवादी स्टेज of अर्थव्यवस्था to an आदर्श कम्युनिस्ट स्टेज .
Rather , Communist governments have been accused of creating a new  सत्ताधारी क्लास (  a Nomenklatura ) , with powers and privileges greater than those previously enjoyed by the upper classes in the non- communist regimes .
Gil Heron ( 9 April 1922  –  27 November 2008 ) was a Jamaican professional footballer .
He was the first black player to play for Scottish club Celtic , and was the father of poet  and  musician Gil Scott-Heron .
He died in  डेट्रॉयट  of a heart attack on 27 November 2008 .
The soybean ( US ) or soya  bean ( UK ) (  Glycine max ) is a species of legume native to East Asia , widely grown for its edible bean which has numerous uses .
The plant is classed as an oilseed rather than a pulse by the UN Food  और agricultural  Organization ( FAO ) .
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant and cheap source of protein for animal feeds and many prepackaged meals  ; soy  vegetable oil is another product of processing the soybean crop .
For example , soybean products such as textured vegetable protein ( TVP ) are ingredients  in many  meat and dairy analogues .
Soybeans produce significantly more protein per acre than  most  other uses of land .
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans  शामिल सोया मिल्क ,  and from the latter tofu and tofu skin .
Fermented foods include soy sauce , fermented  bean paste ,  natto , and tempeh , among others .
the  oil is used in many industrial applications .
The main producers of soy are the United States  ( 35 % ) , Brazil (  27 % ) , Argentina ( 19 % ) , China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ) .
The beans contain significant amounts of phytic  एसिड ,  alpha-linolenic acid , and isoflavones .
Harrison Ford ( born July 13 , 1942 ) is an American  फिल्मी  actor and producer .
He is  प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके प्रदर्शन as हान सोलो in the असली स्टार युद्धों त्रयी और the शीर्षक अक्षर of the इंडियाना जोन्स फिल्मी श्रेणी .
Ford is  भी ज्ञात लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ  as Rick Deckard in Blade Runner , John Book in Witness and Jack Ryan in Patriot Games and Clear and Present Danger .
His career has  spanned छह दशकों और शामिल  roles in several Hollywood blockbusters , including Presumed Innocent , The Fugitive , Air Force One , and What Lies Beneath .
At one point , four of the  शीर्ष  six box-office hits of all time included one of his roles .
Five of his films have been inducted into the   National Film Registry .
In 1997 , Ford was ranked No . 1 in Empire `` The Top 100 Movie Stars  of  All Time '' list .
, the United States domestic box office grosses of Ford 's films total over US $ 3.5 billion  ,  with worldwide grosses surpassing $ 6 billion , making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star .
Ford  is the husband  of actress Calista Flockhart .
A tube of  chapstick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm  manufactured  by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and used in many countries worldwide .
It is intended to help treat and prevent chapped lips ; hence the  नाम  .
Many varieties also include sunscreen in  अनुक्रम  to prevent sunburn .
due  to its popularity , the term has become a genericized trademark .
It popularly refers to any lip balm contained in a lipstick-style tube and applied   in the same manner as lipstick .
However , the term is still a registered trademark , with rights exclusively  स्वामित्व  by Pfizer .
In Sweden and in the United  किंगडम , the उत्पाद  's main competitor is Lypsyl , made by Novartis Consumer Health , which is distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick .
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ) , also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ) , was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary achievement was the advancement of a theory he called `` immaterialism '' ( later  referred to  as `` subjective idealism `` by others ) .
This theory denies the existence of material substance and instead contends that  परिचित वस्तुएँ जैसे  tables and chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers , and as a result can not exist without being perceived .
Thus , as Berkeley famously put it , for physical objects `` esse est percipi '' ( ``  to be is to  be perceived `` ) .
Berkeley is also known for his critique of   abstraction , an important premise in his argument for immaterialism .
In 1709 , Berkeley published his first major work , , in which he discussed the limitations of human vision and advanced the theory that the proper objects of sight are not material  objects , but  light and colour .
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge in 1710 which , after its poor reception , he rewrote in dialogue form and published under the title Three Dialogues between  hylas  and Philonous in 1713 .
In this book , Berkeley 's views were represented by  philonous (  Greek : 'lover of mind ' ) , while Hylas ( Greek : 'matter ' ) embodies the Irish thinker’s opponents , in particular John Locke .
Berkeley argued against   Sir Isaac Newton 's doctrine of absolute space , time and motion in De Motu ( on Motion ) , published 1721 .
उसके  arguments were a precursor to the views of Mach and Einstein .
In 1732 , he published Alciphron , a Christian apologetic against the  free-thinkers , and in 1734 , he  published The Analyst , an empiricist critique of the foundations of infinitesimal calculus , which was influential in the development of mathematics .
His last major  philosophical work  , Siris ( 1744 ) , begins by advocating the medicinal use of tar water , and then continues to discuss a wide range of topics including science , philosophy , and theology .
Interest in Berkeley  's work increased  after World War II , because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th century such as the problems of perception , the difference between primary and secondary qualities , and the importance of language .
Qingdao ( ) , historically known  as Tsingtao , is a major city in  eastern Shandong province , Eastern China , with a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ) .
Its built up area , made of 6 urban districts and 4  county-level  cities , is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010 .
It borders  yantai  to the northeast , Weifang to the west and Rizhao to the southwest .
Qīng ( ) in Chinese means `` green '' or `` lush ''  , जबकि dǎo  ( ) means `` island '' .
चिंगदाओ is administered  at the sub-provincial level .
lying आरपार the शानदोंग प्रायद्वीप जबकि looking आउट to the पीला समुद्र , चिंगदाओ is a प्रमुख seaport , नवल आधार , और औद्योगिक केन्द्र .
It is also the  साईट  of the Tsingtao Brewery .
The  संसार 's longest समुद्र सेतु , the चिंगदाओ haiwan सेतु , कड़ी the प्रमुख शहरी क्षेत्रफल of चिंगदाओ साथ huangdao ज़िला , straddling the jiaozhou खाड़ी समुद्र क्षेत्रों .
Qingdao is named China 's most  livable  city .
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified  प्रजाति  named Acanthamoeba polyphaga mimivirus ( APMV ) , or is a group of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated usually MimiN ) .
In colloquial speech , APMV is more commonly  referred  to as just `` mimivirus '' .
Until October 2011 , when a larger virus Megavirus chilensis was described   , it had the largest capsid diameter of all known viruses .
Mimivirus has a large and complex genome compared with most other   viruses .
Mimivirus , short for `` mimicking microbe '' , is so called to   reflect its large size and apparent Gram-staining properties .
The Mexican War of  स्वतंत्रता  ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed conflict between the people of Mexico and the Spanish colonial authorities which started on September 16 , 1810 .
The movement , which became known as the Mexican War of Independence , was led by Mexican-born Spaniards ,  mestizos और amerindians  who sought independence from Spain .
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against their colonial masters , but ended as an unlikely alliance between Mexican ex-royalists and Mexican guerrilla  insurgents .
Crohn 's disease , also known as Crohn syndrome and regional enteritis , is a type of inflammatory bowel  बीमारी  that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus , causing a wide variety of symptoms .
It primarily causes abdominal pain , diarrhea ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst ) , vomiting ( can be continuous ) , or weight loss , but may  भी कारण जटिलताओं बाहर the जठरांत्र  tract such as skin rashes , arthritis , inflammation of the eye , tiredness , and lack of concentration .
Crohn 's disease is caused by interactions between environmental , immunological  और बैक्टीरियल कारकों  in genetically susceptible individuals .
This results in a chronic inflammatory disorder , in which the body 's immune system attacks the  जठरांत्र ट्रैक्ट संभवतः निर्देशित  at microbial antigens .
Crohn 's  बीमारी रै  wrongly been described as an autoimmune disease in the past ; recent investigators have described it as an immune deficiency state .
There is a genetic association with Crohn 's disease , primarily with variations of the  NOD2 gene  and its protein , which senses bacterial cell walls .
Siblings of affected individuals are at  उच्चतर  risk .
Males and females are equally  प्रभावित  .
Smokers  हैं  two times more likely to develop Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers .
Crohn 's  बीमारी  affects between 400,000 and 600,000 people in North America .
Prevalence  estimates  for Northern Europe have ranged from 27–48 per 100,000 .
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties , with another peak incidence in the fifties to  seventies  , although the disease can occur at any age .
There is no known pharmaceutical or surgical cure   for Crohn 's disease .
Treatment options are restricted to controlling   symptoms , maintaining remission , and preventing relapse .
The disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn , who , in 1932 , together  साथ दो अन्य  colleagues at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York , described a series of patients with inflammation of the terminal ileum , the area most commonly affected by the illness .
This  is an अधूरी  list of the tallest buildings and structures by country .
The list directly includes the tallest   buildings and structures for each country , and where appropriate , it also points to more detailed country-specific lists .
Rough and  तैयार  is a census-designated place in Nevada County , California , United States .
It is located west of Grass Valley ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , approximately 62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  963 at the 2010 census .
YouTube is a video-sharing website , created by three former PayPal employees in  फ़रवरी 2005 , on जिससे  users can upload , view and share videos .
The company is based in San Bruno , California , and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to display a wide variety of user-generated video content , including movie clips , TV clips , and music videos ,  as खूब as amateur सामग्री ऐसे  as video blogging , short original videos , and educational videos .
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals , although media  corporations  including CBS , the BBC , Vevo , Hulu , and other organizations offer some of their material via the site , as part of the YouTube partnership program .
Unregistered users can watch  वीडियो  , while registered users can upload an unlimited number of videos .
Videos considered to contain potentially offensive content are  उपलब्धियाँ  only to registered users at least 18 years old .
In November 2006 ,   YouTube , LLC was bought by Google for US $ 1.65 billion , and operates as a subsidiary of Google .
Sister Act is a musical written by Cheri Steinkellner and Bill Steinkellner with additional book material  by डगलस कार्टर beane  , with lyrics by Glenn Slater and music by Alan Menken .
It is based  on the hit 1992  film comedy of the same name .
The 2009 West End production  was  produced by Stage Entertainment , Whoopi Goldberg , and Michael Reno for Sis Acts LLC .
Goldberg  is  also a producer of the 2011 Broadway adaptation .
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application programming interfaces ( APIs ) for handling tasks related to multimedia , especially game  प्रोग्रामिंग और वीडियो , on  Microsoft platforms .
Originally , the names of these APIs all began with  सीधा , ऐसे  as Direct3D , DirectDraw , DirectMusic , DirectPlay , DirectSound , and so forth .
The name  DirectX was  coined as shorthand term for all of these APIs ( the X standing in for the particular API names ) and soon became the name of the collection .
When Microsoft later set out to develop  a गेमिंग  console , the X was used as the basis of the name Xbox to indicate that the console was based on DirectX technology .
The X initial has been carried forward in the  नामकरण of api  designed for the Xbox such as XInput and the Cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ) , while the DirectX pattern has been continued for Windows APIs such as Direct2D and DirectWrite .
Direct3D  ( the 3D  graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the development of video games for Microsoft Windows , Microsoft Xbox , Microsoft Xbox 360 and some Sega Dreamcast games .
Direct3D is also used by other software applications for visualization and graphics  कार्य ऐसे as cad/cam अभियान्त्रिकी  .
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of  डाइरेक्टएक्स  , it is common to see the names `` DirectX '' and `` Direct3D '' used interchangeably .
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable binary form , along with accompanying  दस्तावेज़ीकरण  and headers for use in coding .
originally , the runtimes यहूद तभी संस्थापित by खेल or explicitly by the  user .
Windows 95 did not launch with DirectX , but DirectX was included with Windows  95 oem सेवा रिलीज  2 .
Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.0 both shipped with DirectX   , as has every version of Windows released since .
The SDK is  उपलब्धियाँ  as a free download .
जबकि the  runtimes are proprietary , closed-source software , source code is provided for most of the SDK samples .
Starting with the release of Windows 8 Developer Preview , DirectX SDK has been  एकीकृत into खिड़कियाँ  SDK .
Direct3D 9Ex , Direct3D 10 , and  direct3d 11 हैं तभी उपलब्धियाँ लिये खिड़कियाँ विस्टा और नए क्युकी प्रत्येक of ये नई संस्करण थी निर्मित to निर्भर upon the नई खिड़कियाँ प्रदर्शक ड्राइवर मॉडल कि थी introduced लिये खिड़कियाँ विस्टा .
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a new  वीडियो मेमोरी मैनेजर supporting आभासीकरण of ग्राफिक्स  hardware for various applications and services like the Desktop Window Manager .
Quetzaltenango , also commonly known by  इसके स्वदेशी नाम  , Xelajú , or more commonly , Xela , is the second largest city of Guatemala .
It is both the capital of  quetzaltenango  Department and the municipal seat of Quetzaltenango municipality .
it रै  an estimated population of 224,703 .
The population is about 61 % indigenous or Amerindian , 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 %  यूरोपीय  .
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an elevation of 2,330 meters (  7,655  ft ) above sea level at its lowest part .
It may reach above  2,400  meters within the city .
The  नगरपालिका  of Quetzaltenango consists of an area of .
Municipalities abutting the municipality of Quetzaltenango include : Salcajá , Cantel , Almolonga , Zunil , El Palmar  , concepción  Chiquirichapa , San Mateo , La Esperanza , Olintepeque , and San Andrés Xecul .
All these municipalities are part of the Department of Quetzaltenango  , मगर  San Andrés Xecul which is a part of the Department of Totonicapán .
The Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is amongst the earliest   surviving works of literature .
The  साहित्यिक इतिहास of gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र sumerian कविताएं परिचय 'bilgamesh ' ( sumerian लिये gilgamesh ) , किंग of uruk .
Four of these were used as source material for a combined epic in  अक्कादी  .
This first  संयुक्त एपिक , ज्ञात as the `` बूढ़ा babylonian '' संस्करण , तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is titled बाद इसके incipit , shūtur एली sharrī ( `` surpassing सब अन्य किंग्स '' ) .
Only a few fragments of  it  have survived .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and  bears the  incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer , twelve-tablet  संस्करण have  been recovered .
Some of the best copies were discovered in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian  किंग ashurbanipal  .
The story centers on a friendship between  gilgamesh और  Enkidu .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the people  of  Uruk .
Together , they journey to the Cedar Mountain to defeat Humbaba  , इसके  monstrous guardian .
Later they kill  the सांड of स्वर्ग , जिससे  the goddess Ishtar sends to punish Gilgamesh for spurning her advances .
As  a  punishment for these actions , the gods sentence Enkidu to death .
The second half of the epic focuses on Gilgamesh 's distress  at Enkidu 's  death , and his quest for immortality .
In order to learn the secret of eternal life , Gilgamesh undertakes  a long  and perilous journey .
He learns that `` The life that you are seeking you will never find  .
When the gods created   man they allotted to him death , but life they retained in their own keeping . ''
This quote was originally  attributed  to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic , and then attributed to the immortal flood hero Utnapishtim in the Akkadian version of the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death , because of his great building projects , and his account of what Utnapishtim told him happened during  the  flood .
The story has been translated into many different languages , and Gilgamesh has since become adapted  in  works of popular fiction .
There are numerous debates over who created the first video game , with the answer  depending largely  on how video games are defined .
The evolution of video games represents a tangled web of several different industries , including scientific , computer , arcade , and consumer  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  .
The `` video   '' in `` video game `` traditionally refers to a raster display device .
With the popular catch phrase use   of the term `` video game '' , the term now implies all display types , formats , and platforms .
इतिहासकारों have भी sought  to bypass the issue by instead using the more specific `` digital games '' descriptive .
इस  term leaves out the earlier analog-based computer games .
This is a list of  best-selling वीडियो  game franchises that have sold or shipped at least 5 million copies .
जबतक वरना stated ,  numbers indicate worldwide units sold , ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list the same amount .
The exception are the ones specifying shipments , which have lower   precedence than others listing sales .
Franchise sales include expansion packs even though they are not considered full video  खेल  .
For best-selling individual video games , see List of  best-selling  video games .
The sales figures given below do   not include arcade game sales , which can be found at List of highest-grossing arcade video games .
– This color indicates a sub-series of a  larger वीडियो खेल मताधिकार  .
This does not necessarily apply for  श्रेणी कि  are not video game-based .
Dorothy Ann  विलिस रिचर्ड्स  ( September 1 , 1933 – September 13 , 2006 ) was an American politician and the 45th Governor of Texas .
She first came to national attention as the state treasurer of Texas , when she delivered the keynote address at the  1988  Democratic National Convention .
Richards served as the 45th Governor of Texas from 1991 to 1995 and was defeated for re-election  in 1994 by  George W. Bush .
Ann Richards was the second female governor of  टेक्सास  .
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a security feature included in modern   operating systems .
It is known  to be  available in Linux , Mac OS X , iOS , Microsoft Windows and Android operating systems and is intended to prevent an application or service from executing code from a non-executable memory region .
इस helps  prevent certain exploits that store code via a buffer overflow , for example .
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced DEP for CPUs that can mark memory pages as nonexecutable , and software-enforced DEP with limited protection for   CPUs that do not have hardware support .
Software-enforced DEP does not protect against execution of code in data pages , but instead counters SEH overwrite ,  another  type of attack .
DEP was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ) , on Windows in 2004 with Windows XP Service Pack 2 , while Apple introduced DEP when they moved to  x86 in  2006 .
Example   illustration of two common futanari variants
, is the Japanese word for hermaphroditism , which is  भी  used in a broader sense for androgyny .
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic genre of  कंप्यूटर खेल  , comics and animations , which includes characters that show both primary sexual characteristics .
But in today 's language  it  refers almost exclusively for characters who have an overall feminine appearance .
In that case the term is also often abbreviated as futa ( s ) , which is occasionally also used as term for  the works itself  .
Early CAPTCHAs such as these , generated by the EZ-Gimpy program  ,  were used on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA , rather than attempting  to create a distorted  background and high levels of warping on the text , might focus on making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line .
Another  रास्ता  to make segmentation difficult is to crowd symbols together , as in Yahoo ! 's current CAPTCHA format .
Some CAPTCHAs try to  utilize the  ability of people to see three-dimensional objects .
On this image , symbols are drawn with lines  of  different thickness to make an effect of extrusion .
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response test used in computing as  an attempt  to ensure that the response is generated by a human being .
The process usually involves  a कंप्यूटर पूछे  a user to complete a simple test which the computer is able to grade .
These tests are designed to be easy for a computer to generate but difficult for a computer  to solve , but  again easy for a human .
If a correct solution is received , it can be presumed to have been entered by  a  human .
A common type  of captcha requires  the user to type letters and/or digits from a distorted image that appears on the screen .
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites , since a normal human can easily read a CAPTCHA , while the bot can not  प्रक्रम the चित्र अक्षर और इसलिए  , can not answer properly , or at all .
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated , many of them have become difficult even for a human to read , so picture CAPTCHAs were created in  जिससे a  human is shown a simple test to show a picture of a certain animal ( given few animal pictures ) , which is simple for a human being to process , and therefore easy to pick , while a bot can not process and solve the question because although it can analyze the picture , it can not easily guess the animal .
The term `` CAPTCHA '' was coined in 2000 by Luis von Ahn ,  मैनुएल  Blum , Nicholas J. Hopper , and John Langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ) .
It is an acronym based on the word `` capture '' and standing for `` Completely   Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart '' .
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to trademark the term on 15 October 2004 , but the trademark application  थी abandoned on  21 April 2008 .
A CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse Turing test ,  क्युकी it is administered  by a machine and targeted at a human , in contrast to the standard Turing test that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine .
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly known in English as Jacques Cousteau ; 11 June 1910 – 25 June 1997 ) was a French naval officer , explorer , conservationist , filmmaker , innovator , scientist ,  फ़ोटोग्राफ़र  , author and researcher who studied the sea and all forms of life in water .
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung , pioneered marine conservation and was a member of the  académie  française .
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a fast food restaurant chain headquartered in Louisville ,  केंटकी , संयुक्त  States , which specializes in fried chicken .
An `` American icon '' , it is the world 's second largest restaurant chain overall ( as  measured by बिक्री ) बाद मैकडोनाल्ड 's  , with over 18,000 outlets in 120 countries and territories .
The company is  a subsidiary  of Yum !
Brands , a  रेस्तरां कम्पनी  which also owns Pizza Hut and Taco Bell .
KFC was founded by Harland Sanders , who began selling fried chicken   from his roadside restaurant in Corbin , Kentucky during the Great Depression .
Sanders was one of the first  people to  see the potential of the restaurant franchising concept , with the first `` Kentucky Fried Chicken '' franchise opening in Utah in 1952 .
The franchise popularized chicken in the fast food industry , thereby diversifying the market and challenging the  दबदबा of  the hamburger .
Marketing himself as `` Colonel Sanders '' , he   became a legendary figure of American cultural history , and his image is still prominently used in KFC branding .
The company 's rapid  विस्तार देखी it  grow too large for Sanders to manage , and in 1964 he sold the company to a group of investors led by John Y . Brown , Jr. and Jack Massey .
KFC was one of the first fast food chains to expand internationally ,  खोलने आउटलेट  in England , Mexico and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s .
Throughout the 1970s and 1980s , KFC  अनुभवी  mixed fortunes domestically , as it went through a series of corporate owners who had little or no experience in the restaurant business .
In the early 1970s , KFC was sold to the spirits firm Heublein , who were taken over by the R.J. Reynolds  खाना और तम्बाकू  conglomerate , who sold the chain to PepsiCo .
The chain continued to expand overseas however ,   and in 1987 KFC became the first Western restaurant chain to open in China .
The chain has since  विस्तारित  rapidly in China , and the country is now the company 's most profitable market .
PepsiCo spun off its  रेस्तरां प्रभाग  as Tricon Global Restaurants , which later changed its name to Yum !
ब्रांड्स  .
KFC primarily sells fried chicken pieces and variations such as chicken sandwiches and wraps , salads and  side dishes  such as French fries and coleslaw , desserts and soft drinks , often supplied by PepsiCo .
Its most famous product is pressure fried chicken pieces , seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original Recipe '' of   11 herbs and spices .
The exact nature of these ingredients is unknown , and represents  a notable  trade secret .
Larger portions of fried chicken are served in a distinctive cardboard `` bucket '' , which  has become a signature of  the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman .
KFC is famous for the slogan `` finger lickin ' good '' , which has since been replaced by ``  Nobody does  chicken like KFC '' and `` So good '' .
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or Coelenterata is a phylum containing over 10,000 species of animals found exclusively in aquatic   and mostly marine environments .
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes , specialized cells  कि वे उपयोग  mainly for capturing prey .
Their bodies consist of mesoglea , a non-living jelly-like substance , sandwiched between two layers of epithelium that  हैं ज़्यादातर एक कोशिका मोटा  .
They have two basic body forms :  तैराकी medusae  and sessile polyps , both of which are radially symmetrical with mouths surrounded by tentacles that bear cnidocytes .
Both forms have a single orifice and body cavity that are used for digestion  और श्वसन  .
Many cnidarian species  उपज colonies कि  are single organisms composed of medusa-like or polyp-like zooids , or both .
cnidarians ' क्रियाएँ हैं समन्वित by a विकेन्द्रित तंत्रिका जाल और सरल  receptors .
Several free-swimming Cubozoa and Scyphozoa  possess  balance-sensing statocysts , and some have simple eyes .
Not all cnidarians  reproduce  sexually .
Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and sexual medusae , but some omit   either the polyp or the medusa stage .
Cnidarians were for a long time grouped with Ctenophores in the phylum Coelenterata , but increasing awareness of their  मतभेद caused उन्हें to be  placed in separate phyla .
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones , corals , sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa , a diverse group that includes all the freshwater cnidarians as well as many marine forms , and has both sessile  सदस्यों ऐसे as hydra  and colonial swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' War .
Staurozoa have recently been recognised as a class in their own right rather than a sub-group of Scyphozoa , and there is debate about  whether myxozoa और polypodiozoa  are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ) .
Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size from plankton to animals several times larger than themselves , but many obtain much of their nutrition from  endosymbiotic शैवाल  , and a few are parasites .
Many are preyed  upon  by other animals including starfish , sea slugs , fish and turtles .
Coral reefs , whose polyps are rich in endosymbiotic algae , support some of the  world 's most  productive ecosystems , and protect vegetation in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides .
While corals are almost entirely restricted to warm , shallow marine waters , other cnidarians live in the depths ,  in polar  seas and in freshwater .
Fossil cnidarians have been  मिला in रॉक्स  formed about , and other fossils show that corals may have been present shortly before and diversified a few million years later .
Fossils of cnidarians that do not build mineralized   structures are very rare .
Scientists currently think  कि cnidarians , ctenophores और bilaterians हैं अधिक closely सम्बन्धित to calcareous sponges than ये हैं to अन्य sponges , और कि anthozoans हैं the विकासवादी `` aunts '' or `` बहनों '' of अन्य cnidarians , और the सबसे closely सम्बन्धित to bilaterians .
Recent analyses have concluded that cnidarians , although considered more `` primitive '' than bilaterians , have   a wider range of genes .
The Aztec Pyramid at St.  cecilia acatitlan  , Mexico State .
Aztec jade mask  depicting  the god Xipe Totec .
विशाल सिरेमिक  statue of an Aztec Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic Codex  fejérváry-mayer - the आग  god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center .
The Aztec people were certain ethnic groups of central Mexico , particularly those groups who  spoke the नावातल भाषा  and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries .
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular  ) और aztecah ( बहुवचन ) औसत `` लोगों  from Aztlan `` , a mythological place for the Nahuatl-speaking culture of the time , and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people .
Often the term `` Aztec  ''  refers exclusively to the Mexica people of Tenochtitlan ( now the location of Mexico City ) , situated on an island in Lake Texcoco , who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica .
Sometimes the term also includes the inhabitants of Tenochtitlan 's two principal allied city-states , the  Acolhuas of  Texcoco and the Tepanecs of Tlacopan , who together with the Mexica formed the Aztec Triple Alliance which controlled what is often known as `` the Aztec Empire '' .
In other contexts , Aztec may refer to all  the विभिन्न नगर  states and their peoples , who shared large parts of their ethnic history and cultural traits with the Mexica , Acolhua and Tepanecs , and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca .
In this meaning it is possible to talk about an Aztec civilization including all the particular cultural patterns  आम  for most of the peoples inhabiting Central Mexico in the late postclassic period .
From the 13th century , the Valley of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization : here the capital of the Aztec Triple Alliance , the city of  tenochtitlan  , was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco .
The Triple Alliance formed a tributary empire expanding its political hegemony far beyond the Valley of Mexico , conquering  other  city states throughout Mesoamerica .
At its pinnacle , Aztec culture had rich and complex mythological and religious traditions , as well as reaching remarkable  architectural  and artistic accomplishments .
In 1521 Hernán Cortés , along with a large number of Nahuatl speaking indigenous allies ,  conquered tenochtitlan  and defeated the Aztec Triple Alliance under the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II .
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of Mexico City on the  साईट of the  ruined Aztec capital , from where they proceeded with the process of colonizing Central America .
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico City ; from indigenous bark paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such  as hernán cortés और बर्नल díaz डेल कैस्टिलो ; और विशेषकर इससे 16th और 17th सदी descriptions  of Aztec culture and history written by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language , such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants .
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3 ,  1967 ) is an अमरीकी  journalist , author , and television personality .
He is the primary anchor of the  CNN  news show Anderson Cooper 360° .
The program is normally broadcast live from a New York City studio ; however , Cooper often broadcasts live on location for  तोड़कर  news stories .
as of सितंबर 2011 , he भी serves as मेजबान of उसके अपना eponymous syndicated दिन बात दिखाएँ , एंडरसन सजीव , जिससे होगा be रद्द at the समाप्त of the दूसरी ऋतु .
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped curve ) where each band has a width of 1 standard deviation –  देखिए भी : 68-95-99.7  rule
Cumulative  संभाव्यता  of a normal distribution with expected value 0 and standard deviation 1 .
in आंकडे और संभाव्यता सिद्धान्त  , standard deviation ( represented by the symbol sigma , σ ) shows how much variation or dispersion exists from the average ( mean ) , or expected value .
A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be very close to the mean ; high standard deviation indicates that the data points are spread out over  a विशाल दायरा  of values .
The standard deviation of a random  परिवर्तनीय , सांख्यिकीय जनसांख्यिकी , आंकड़ा  set , or probability distribution is the square root of its variance .
It is algebraically simpler though practically less robust than the average   absolute deviation .
A useful property of standard deviation  is कि , नापसंद  variance , it is expressed in the same units as the data .
Note , however , that for  माप  with percentage as unit , the standard deviation will have percentage points as unit .
In addition to expressing the variability of a  जनसांख्यिकी ,  standard deviation is commonly used to measure confidence in statistical conclusions .
For example , the margin of error in polling data is determined by calculating the expected standard deviation in the results  if the same poll were to be conducted multiple  times .
The reported margin of error is typically  परिचय twice  the standard deviation ­– the radius of a 95 percent confidence interval .
In science , researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data , and only effects that fall far outside the range of standard deviation are considered statistically significant – normal random error or  विभिन्नता in the माप is in इस रास्ता  distinguished from causal variation .
मानक  deviation is also important in finance , where the standard deviation on the rate of return on an investment is a measure of the volatility of the investment .
When only a sample of data from a population is available , the standard deviation of the population can be estimated by a  परिवर्धित मात्रा  called the `` sample standard deviation '' .
When the sample is the  संपूर्ण  population , its unmodified standard deviation is called the `` population standard deviation '' .
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant grown primarily as a root  सब्ज़ी , secondarily  as a leaf vegetable .
The ulluco is one of the most widely grown and  economically महत्वपूर्ण  root crops in the Andean region of South America , second only to the potato .
It is known there with the common  नाम of पापा लिसा  , but also by the regional names melloco ( Ecuador ) , olluco ( Peru ) , chugua ( Colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ) , among others .
the पत्ता और the tuber हैं खाद्य , समान to पालक और the आलू , क्रमशः  .
They are known to contain high levels of protein , calcium , and  केरोटीन  .
Papalisa were used by the Incas prior  to  arrival of Europeans in South America .
Ulluco tubers are  marketed  as `` Earth Gems '' in New Zealand , by Halfords Exotic Produce .
Ulluco  tubers  in New Zealand
An April 24 ,  1851  poster warning the `` colored people of Boston '' about policemen acting as slave catchers .
The Fugitive Slave Law  or  Fugitive Slave Act was passed by the United States Congress on September 18 , 1850 , as part of the Compromise of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers .
This was one of the most controversial acts of the 1850 compromise and heightened Northern  fears of a ``  slave power conspiracy '' .
It declared that all  runaway  slaves were , upon capture , to be returned to their masters .
Abolitionists nicknamed it the ``  bloodhound विधि ''  for the dogs that were used to track down runaway slaves .
फ़्रैंक जोसेफ pallone , jr.  ( born October 30 , 1951 ) is the U.S. Representative for , serving since 1993 .
He is a member of  the  Democratic Party .
He previously represented the  3rd  district from 1988 to 1993 .
Trin-i-tee 5:7 is a gospel duo from New Orleans , Louisiana in the  संयुक्त राज्य  .
The group was marketed as a gospel  वैकल्पिक to r & b लड़की  groups such as Destiny 's Child and TLC .
Trin-i-tee  5:7  has sold over 2.5 million albums .
In 1998 , the group released  उनके  first album entitled Trin-i-tee 5:7 which debut at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts .
The album featured the songs `` God 's Grace '' and the   cover song `` Oh !
Mary Do  n't  You Weep '' .
The album later   became certified gold .
in 1999 , terri भूरा बाएँ the समूह और थी बाद replaced by सिंगर एड्रियन एंडरसन .
दौरान कि साल , the समूह अंकित और released उनके दूसरी एल्बम , आध्यात्मिक  Love .
The  एल्बम became  the group 's second # 1 album on the Top Gospel charts .
The  एल्बम contained the  singles `` Put Your Hands '' and `` My Body '' .
in 2002 ,  the group released their third album The Kiss which debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts .
In 2007 , the group left GospoCentric Records and signed a record deal  साथ स्पिरिट  Rising Music .
In late 2007 , Trin-i-tee 5:7 released their fifth album T57 , which featured the top ten gospel single ``  Listen ''  .
T57 charted # 2 on the Top Gospel   Albums , # 5 on the Top Christian charts , and # 12 on the Top R & B charts .
The United States federal earned income tax credit or earned income credit ( EITC or EIC ) is a refundable tax credit for low- and medium-income individuals and couples , primarily for those who have qualifying  children  .
When the credit exceeds the amount of taxes  owed , it  results in a tax refund to those who claim the credit .
This credit is provided to offset the burden of social security  कर और  also to promote an incentive to work .
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child ( ren ) , the age , relationship , and shared residency requirements must be met ,  as  well as some other requirements .
U.S. tax forms 1040EZ , 1040A ,   or 1040 can be used to claim EIC without qualifying children .
To claim the credit with qualifying children , 1040A or 1040  जरूर  be used , as well as attaching Schedule EIC .
EIC phases in slowly , has a medium-length plateau , and  तब  phases out more slowly than it phased in .
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying child ) , it is always preferable to have one more dollar of actual  सैलरी or मजदूरी  ( although technically , since the EIC table moves by fifty dollar increments , it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ) .
For tax year  2011 , the maximum  EIC for a single person or couple filing without qualifying children was $ 464 .
The maximum EIC with one qualifying child was $ 3,094 , with two children was $ 5,112 , and  with three or  more qualifying children was $ 5,751 .
These amounts are indexed   annually for inflation .
The earned income tax credit has been part of political debates in the United States regarding  whether उठाने  the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs .
The following is a list of halftime shows held at the National Football League 's championship game , the Super   Bowl .
While halftime shows are a tradition during football games at all levels of competition , the Super Bowl halftime show  represents a आधारभूत कड़ी to  pop culture , which helps broaden the television audience and nationwide interest .
In most years  चूंकि the mid-1980s ,  the halftime show of the Super Bowl has featured popular recording artists and other well-known celebrities .
It has measurably increased television   viewers during and after the halftime show .
The performance is regarded one of  the most-watched  events in American television annually with over 100 million viewers in the United States alone .
Musical genres over the years have represented a broad range of music types , including pop , rock  , classic  rock , country , hip hop , rap , blues , and soul .
In  कुछ  years , short skits or drama scenes are acted out on a stage .
The performance group Up with People has performed at the most Super Bowl halftime shows , starring in four during  the 1970s  and 1980s .
According to Nielsen ratings , Super Bowl XLVI halftime show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched halftime show in history ,  साथ 114 लाख  viewers or about 3 million more than the actual game .
Beyonce 's 2013 halftime show  प्रदर्शन  was the second most viewed show in history .
It is listed on the Guinness World Records as the largest TV audience  for a Super  Bowl half-time performance .
International  मेन 's  Day ( IMD ) is an annual international event celebrated on 19th November .
Inaugurated in 1999 in Trinidad  और टोबैगो , the दिन और इसके कार्यक्रम ढूँढें support  from a variety of individuals and groups in Australia , the Caribbean , North America , Asia , Europe and Africa .
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO , Director of Women  and  Culture of Peace Ingeborg Breines said of IMD , `` This is an excellent idea and would give some gender balance . ''
She added that UNESCO was looking forward  to cooperating साथ  the organizers .
The objectives of celebrating an International Men 's Day include focusing on men 's and boys ' health , improving gender relations , promoting gender equality  , and  highlighting positive male role models .
It is an occasion to highlight discrimination against men and boys and to celebrate their achievements and contributions , in particular for their contributions  to community  , family , marriage , and child care .
The broader and ultimate aim of the event is to promote basic  humanitarian मान  .
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries , including Trinidad and Tobago , Jamaica , Australia , India , China , United States , Romania , Singapore , Malta , United Kingdom , South Africa , Tanzania , Zimbabwe , Botswana , Seychelles , Burundi , Hungary , Ireland , Isle of Man , Ghana , Canada , Denmark , Norway , Austria , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Ukraine , France , Italy , Pakistan , Cuba , Antigua and Barbuda , St. Kitts  और नेविस , st. लूसिया , हरा और केमन आइलैंड्स , on 19 नवम्बर  , and global support for the celebration is broad .
Valley  गाँव  ParkValley
Village is a district in the San  फर्नांडो  Valley region of Los Angeles , California .
The median age of its population , at 36 , is `` old for the city of Los Angeles . '' and  इसके औसत  household size of two people is low , compared to other parts of the city .
developmental मनोविज्ञान is the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई of परिवर्तन कि occur in इंसान beings over the कोर्स of उनके जीवन  span .
Originally concerned with infants and children , the field has expanded  to शामिल किशोरावस्था ,  adult development , aging , and the entire life span .
This field examines change across a broad range of topics including motor skills and other psycho-physiological processes ; cognitive development involving areas such as problem solving , moral understanding , and conceptual understanding ; language acquisition ; social , personality , and emotional  विकास  ; and self-concept and identity formation .
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to which development occurs through the gradual accumulation of knowledge versus stage-like development , or the extent to which children are born with innate  mental structures  versus learning through experience .
Many  researchers are interested in the  interaction between personal characteristics , the individual 's behavior , and environmental factors including social context , and their impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach .
Developmental psychology informs several applied fields , including : educational psychology , child   psychopathology , and forensic developmental psychology .
developmental मनोविज्ञान complements अनेक अन्य मौलिक शोध फ़ील्ड in मनोविज्ञान सहित सोशल मनोविज्ञान , संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान , ecological मनोविज्ञान , और तुलनात्मक मनोविज्ञान .
Joseph Michael `` Joey '' Stivic is a fictional character who first appeared on the 1970s American sitcom  सब in the परिवार  .
Joey Stivic was the son and only child of Mike  Stivic ( played by  Rob Reiner ) and Gloria Stivic ( played by Sally Struthers ) , and the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ) .
The character first appeared as a newborn baby in a  two-part  episode of All in the Family which aired in December 1975 .
After many appearances on All in the Family until Reiner and Struthers left the series in 1978 ( by that time , Joey had been played most  प्रायः by प्रत्यावर्ती जुड़वा जेसन और जस्टिन  Draeger ) , the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the All in the Family spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original ) Archie Bunker 's Place in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion . ''
In this instance , the character was played by child actor Dick  billingsley  and was appropriately pre-school age .
With Gloria  अभी  separated from Mike , she returned to Archie Bunker 's Place with Joey in the February 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home . ''
In this episode , Joey was played by Christopher  johnston  .
जॉय stivic  was a regular character on the All in the Family spin-off series Gloria in 1982 and 1983 .
On  इस श्रेणी , in जिससे the now-divorced ग्लोरिया बंकर अक्षर था स्थानांतरित to upstate नई यॉर्क in अनुक्रम to कार्य as an सहायक veterinarian , the भाग of जॉय stivic थी निभाई by ten-year-old कर्ता ईसाई jacobs .
After Gloria was canceled in 1983 , Joey Stivic disappeared from prime time television for 11 years , until  the अक्षर बना एक  last appearance on 704 Hauser , a short-lived 1994 series about a black family who had moved into the old Bunker home , years after Bunker had sold it .
In this appearance , the Joey Stivic character was played by Casey Siemaszko , an actor born in 1961 ( 14 years before Joey  stivic 's  fictional birth ) .
In 1976 the Ideal Toy Company released a 14-inch `` Joey Stivic doll '' ( called `` Archie Bunker 's Grandson ''  ) जिससे थी billed as the  `` first anatomically correct male doll . ''
The doll inspired mild controversy  at the  time , and is a collectors ' item today .
The 2011 Rose Bowl was the 97th edition of the annual bowl game played on  जनवरी  1 , 2011 , as part of the 2010 college football season .
Played in Pasadena , California , the TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain  वेस्ट  Conference defeated the Wisconsin Badgers of the Big Ten Conference by a score of 21 – 19 .
The Pasadena  Tournament of Roses  Association was the organizer of the game .
Vizio Inc. was the corporate   sponsor and the game was officially named `` The Rose Bowl Game presented by Vizio '' .
This game marked the  पहला  time a team from a non-Automatic Qualifying Conference played in , and won , the Rose Bowl in its 97 years .
The contest was broadcast on cable television station ESPN with a radio  ब्रॉडकास्ट on ईएसपीएन रेडियो  and XM Satellite Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet .
Coverage began at  1:30  PM ( PST ) with kickoff at 2:10 PM ( PST ) .
This marked the first time that the game was not broadcast nationally `` over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl , which was the  first  nationally televised college football game .
The Rose Bowl Game , themed Building Dreams , Friendships , & Memories , was a contractual sell-out , with  64,500  tickets allocated to the participating teams and conferences .
Ticket prices for all  सीटे in the रोज़  Bowl are listed at $ 145 .
The remaining tickets went to the Tournament of Roses members , sponsors , City of Pasadena residents , and the  सामान्य  public .
the  Rose Bowl stadium capacity is listed at approximately 91,000 .
the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता is a बयान अपनाया by the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस on जुलाई 4 , 1776 , जिससे घोषित कि the तेरह अमरीकी colonies , तब at युद्ध साथ ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , regarded themselves as स्वतंत्र राज्य , और no longer a भाग of the अंग्रेजों  Empire .
Instead they now formed a new nation—the United States of  अमेरिका  .
John Adams was a leader in pushing for independence  ,  which was unanimously approved on July 2 .
A committee had already drafted the formal declaration , to be ready when  कॉंग्रेस voted  on independence .
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original draft of the document   , which congress would edit to produce the final version .
The Declaration was ultimately a  औपचारिक स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों कॉंग्रेस था voted on जुलाई 2 to घोषित  independence from Great Britain , more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the Independence  Day is  celebrated on July 4 , although Adams wanted July 2 .
After ratifying the text on July 4 , Congress issued  the घोषणा  of Independence in several forms .
It was initially published as the printed   Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and read to the public .
The most famous version of the Declaration , a signed copy that is popularly regarded  as the Declaration of Independence ,  is displayed at the National Archives in Washington , D.C .
Although the wording of  the घोषणा थी  approved on July 4 , the date of its signing was August 2 .
The  असली जुलाई 4 संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा  of Independence manuscript was lost while all other copies have been derived from this original document .
The sources and interpretation of the Declaration   have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry .
The Declaration  जायज  the independence of the United States by listing colonial grievances against King George III , and by asserting certain natural and legal rights , including a right of revolution .
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence , the text of the Declaration  was  initially ignored after the American Revolution .
Since then , it has come to be considered  a  major statement on human rights , particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with  निश्चित  unalienable Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness .
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language '' , containing `` the most potent and consequential words  in  American history . ''
The  ड्योढ़ी आए  to represent a moral standard to which the United States should strive .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the Declaration to be the  न्यास of उसके राजनैतिक  philosophy , and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through which the United States Constitution should be interpreted .
It has  प्रेरित  work for the rights of marginalized people throughout the world .
Chitty   Chitty Bang Bang is a 1968 British musical film loosely based on Ian Fleming 's novel .
The film 's script is by Roald Dahl and Ken Hughes and its songs by the Sherman  भाइयो  .
It stars Dick Van Dyke as Caractacus Potts and Sally Ann Howes as  Truly  Scrumptious .
The film was  निर्देशित by केन ह्यूजेस और  produced by Albert R. Broccoli ( co-producer of the James Bond series of films , also based on Fleming 's novels ) .
John  stears  supervised the special effects .
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted  the म्यूज़िक , जबकि  the musical numbers were staged by Marc Breaux and Dee Dee Wood .
A region is arid when it is characterized by a severe lack of available water , to the extent of hindering or preventing the growth and  विकास of संयंत्र और एनिमल  life .
Environments   subject to arid climates tend to lack vegetation and are called xeric or desertic .
Most `` arid '' climates surround the   equator ; these places include most of Africa and parts of South America and Central America .
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological sign , which is  संबद्ध  with the constellation Cancer .
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac , between 90 and 125.25 degree of celestial longitude , which  the  Sun transits this area on average between June 22 to July 22 each year .
And under the sidereal zodiac , it is  फिलहाल  from July 21 to August 9 .
The United States presidential  चुनाव  of 1960 was the 44th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party   nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard Nixon , while the Democratic Party nominated John F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President , Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower , was not eligible for re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second   Amendment .
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes , or 0.17 % of the popular vote , giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the  चुनावी कॉलेज , the  closest since 1916 .
This was the first  चुनाव in जिससे सब पचास  of the current United States participated .
A number of factors explain why the election was so  बंद  .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent Republican , and he had the advantage of 17 million more registered  डेमोक्रेट  than Republicans .
Furthermore , the new  मत कि  Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively outmatched  निक्सन  's .
In the end , Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight , and he wasted energy by campaigning in  सब 50 राज्य  instead of concentrating on the swing states .
कैनेडी प्रयुक्त उसके विशाल , well-funded अभियान संगठन to जीत the नामांकन , सुरक्षित समर्थन , और , साथ the सहायता of the पिछला of the big-city bosses , to मिलेंगी आउट the vote in the बिग शहरों  .
He relied on running  mate  Lyndon B. Johnson to hold the South and used television effectively .
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S . Senators ( Kennedy and  जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित  as president and vice-president , a phenomenon that has been repeated once , by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
Sherwood  is  a city in Washington County , Oregon , United States .
Located in the southeast  कोने of  the county , it is a residential community in the Tualatin Valley southwest of Portland .
The population was 11,791 at the 2000  जनसांख्यिकी  .
According to  the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  , the population was 18,205 residents .
Indirectly  नामित लिये the  Sherwood Forest in England , it was first incorporated in 1893 as a town .
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the U.S. Congress that was signed into law by President George W. Bush on  अक्तूबर 26 , 2001  .
The title of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that stands for Uniting ( and ) Strengthening America ( by ) Providing Appropriate Tools Required ( to ) Intercept  ( और ) obstruct  Terrorism Act of 2001 .
The act , as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th , significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s authority to regulate financial transactions , particularly those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law  प्रवर्तन और आव्रजन अधिकारियों in निमाड़ और deporting आप्रवासियों suspected  of terrorism-related acts .
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include domestic terrorism , thus enlarging the number of activities to which the USA PATRIOT Act’s expanded law  प्रवर्तन  powers can be applied .
On May 26  , 2011 , अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा प्रयुक्त an autopen  to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011 , a four-year extension of three key provisions in the USA PATRIOT Act while he was in France : roving wiretaps , searches of business records ( the `` library records provision `` ) , and conducting surveillance of `` lone wolves '' — individuals suspected of terrorist-related activities not linked to terrorist groups .
Republican  नेताओ questioned  if the use of the Autopen met the constitutional requirements for signing a bill into law .
A house in Queen Anne style at  223  Avenue A .
snohomish  is a city in Snohomish County , Washington , United States .
The population  थी  9,098 at the 2010 census .
The mayor of Snohomish  is karen  Guzak , and the City Manager is Larry Bauman .
Snohomish prides itself for its historical downtown , and was once known for its many antique shops when it was known as the `` Antique Capital  of  the Northwest . ''
The historic  कारोबार और आवासीय बीच of the  town constitutes the Snohomish Historic District , which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places .
Many houses bear plaques  साथ the साल the  house was built and the name of the family or individual who originally occupied it .
Once every  साल , the नगर देता टुर of the ऐतिहासिक घरों ; एक of उन्हें , the blackman हाउस , is a year-round संग्रहालय .
A general   aviation airfield , Harvey Airfield , is less than one mile southwest of Downtown Snohomish .
Dave Matthews Band ( DMB ) is an American rock band that was formed in Charlottesville ,  वर्जिनिया , संयुक्त राज्य  , in 1991 .
The founding members were singer-songwriter and guitarist Dave Matthews , bassist Stefan  lessard , वादक /backing vocalist  Carter Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore .
Boyd Tinsley was added  to the  band as a violinist soon after the band was formed .
Moore died suddenly in August 2008 due to complications from injuries  sustained in an  ATV accident .
GRAMMY  पुरस्कार -winner  Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck and the Flecktones has since filled Moore 's spot as the band 's saxophonist .
Rashawn Ross  और  Tim Reynolds have also become full-time touring members of the band .
The band 's 2009 album Big Whiskey and the GrooGrux King ( the first album since Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the Billboard  200 , कमाई the  band their fifth consecutive number-one debut— making them the second band behind Metallica to do so .
Their most recent album , Away from the World , was released in 2012  , and also debuted at  number one on the Billboard chart .
As of 2010 , the Dave Matthews Band has sold over 30 million records  विश्वव्यापी  .
The band is known for their annual summer-long tours of the United States and Europe , featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of  उनके  songs , accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show .
This portion of the  tour has  become a stamp of DMB and has grown with the band since Fenton Williams began working with them in the early 1990s .
After twenty consecutive years of touring the band announced   that it would take the summer of 2011 off .
Dave Matthews Band has won one GRAMMY Award , and  थी awarded  the NAACP Chairman 's Award .
According to Julian Bond , `` they sell out the largest arenas on Earth , but frequently give their music  दूर . ''
Transcendental Wild Oats : A Chapter from an Unwritten Romance is a prose satire written by Louisa May Alcott , about her family 's involvement with  the transcendentalist  community Fruitlands in the early 1840s .
The work was first published in a New York newspaper in 1873 , and reprinted in 1874  , 1876 ,  and 1915 and after .
In her account , Alcott provides the  real  people involved with thin pseudonymous disguises .
Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb , '' while his partner and community co-founder Charles Lane is `` Timon Lion ; ''  अबीगैल may alcott  , Louisa 's mother and Bronson 's wife , is `` Sister Hope . ''
Alcott  depicts  her father as dominated by his more forceful partner , and both men as feckless and impractical dreamers .
The men of the community spend their time in pointless debates while  सिस्टर  Hope works from dawn to dusk to maintain their existence .
A crisis arises at harvest time , when the grain crop is threatened by  an approaching  storm .
in alcott 's शब्द , `` परिचय the समय the अनाज थी तैयार to हाउस , कुछ कॉल of the oversoul wafted सब the मेन दूर . ''
Sister  आशा  organizes the only available help , three little girls and a boy , and manages to save the crop .
The little community collapses as soon as the weather turns  ठंडा , जब it becomes  clear that their provisions are too meager to last the coming winter .
Timon Lion and his son abscond to join the Shakers — though Timon is unhappy to learn that life among them is `` all work and  no खेल . ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ; after days of despair he begins to eat again only when he realizes that his family needs  him  .
Sister Hope finds a way for them to subsist and  persevere  .
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in  इस टुकड़ा is paralleled  in her novel , published in the same year as `` Transcendental Wild Oats . ''
`` Transcendental Wild  जई  '' has been reprinted in several modern editions .
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain  in the  Sawatch Range , part of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado .
It is located in  the पावन क्रॉस wilderness निकट the भुत कस्बा of पावन क्रॉस नगर और in त्रिभुज काउंटी .
it थी नामित लिये the distinctive cross-shaped snowfield on the पूर्वोत्तर फेस  .
Under USDA Forest Service   administration , the mountain was proclaimed `` Holy Cross National Monument '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11 , 1929 .
The monument  थी  transferred to the National Park Service in 1933 .
In 1950 , it was returned to the  वन सेवा और खोया इसके नेशनल  Monument status—the number of visitors to the mountain and the nearby `` Pilgrim 's Hut '' had waned , and the expense of full-time staff could not be justified .
This  पहाड़ रै महरूम the विषय of  painters , photographers and even a poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow , ( The Cross of Snow ) .
The first publicly available photograph was published in National   Geographic magazine .
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an oil painting , which now is part of the collection of  the संग्रहालय of the अमरीकी  West , part of the Autry National Center in Los Angeles , California .
It  is  still much photographed but it is not as well known today as it was in the past .
Nearby features include Bowl of Tears  झील , सीधे अंतर्गत  the east face of the peak , Tuhare Lakes , in a cirque that lies south of a significant subpeak , and several other lakes .
notable  locations within include the Dotsero volcano ( near Interstate 70 ) , Vail and Aspen .
US 24 runs near the peak through  gilman  .
Photochrom print   of Mount of the Holy Cross c. 1900 .
This image is a  reversed  view of the mountain compared to how it actually appears .
The first recorded ascent of Holy Cross was in 1873 , by F. V. Hayden and photographer W. H.  जैक्सन दौरान  one of Hayden 's geographical surveys .
However , the peak may  खूब  have been ascended previously by miners or American Indians .
The first winter ascent of the peak was made in 1943 by  russel keene और  Howard Freedman of the 10th Mountain Division , then stationed at Camp Hale .
Holy Cross can be  climbed by at तनिक चार अलग रूट , साथ the easiest और सबसे आम रूट होने the उत्तर लकीरें , जिससे involves of लंबवत लाभ over और is रेटेड yds क्लास 2 लिये मॉडरेट scrambling .
The Cross  couloir रूट फ़ॉर्म  the vertical portion of the famous cross feature , and provides an advanced snow climb or extreme ski descent .
Mount of the Holy Cross has a history of endangering the lives  of many  hikers .
Primarily  , the  hikers who require rescue are unfamiliar with the risks of entering wilderness areas and do not bring adequate equipment and supplies to respond to emergency conditions .
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a long day hike , unprepared hikers are frequently stranded or lost due to changing  पर्यावरणीय  conditions and confusion regarding the surrounding landscape , especially on the descent of North Ridge .
Thorough research and  उचित  planning should prevent most tragedies .
Mount of the Holy cross is accessible from Tigiwon  सड़क  , south of Minturn , Colorado .
The Half Moon Pass Trail is the standard route to the summit of  माउंट of  the Holy Cross via the North Ridge .
Following the Fall Creek Trail to an ascent of Notch Mountain Trail provides the best view of the  Holy  Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge .
The GSM logo is used to identify compatible handsets and  उपकरण
GSM ( Global System for Mobile Communications , originally ' ) , is a standard set developed by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (  etsi ) to describe  protocols for second generation ( 2G ) digital cellular networks used by mobile phones .
It became the de facto global  मानक लिये  mobile communications with over 80 % market share .
The GSM standard was developed as a replacement for first generation ( 1G ) analog  सेल्यूलर संजाल , और originally  described a digital , circuit switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony .
This was expanded over time to include data communications , first by circuit  switched हस्तांतरण  , then packet data transport via GPRS ( General Packet Radio Services ) and EDGE ( Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ) .
Further improvements were made when the 3GPP developed third generation ( 3G ) UMTS standards followed by fourth generation ( 4G ) LTE Advanced   standards .
`` जीएसएम '' is a ट्रेडमार्क स्वामित्व by the जीएसएम संघ .
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Lend-Lease bill to  दे सहायता to ब्रिटेन  and China ( 1941 )
the lend पट्टे अधिनियम थी an अधिनियम जहाँ the संयुक्त राज्य था समर्थित इसके allies .
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law that started a program under which the United States of America supplied the United Kingdom , the USSR , Republic of China , Free France , and other Allied nations with  materiel  between 1941 and 1945 .
It was signed into law on March 11 , 1941  , a  year and a half after the outbreak of World War II in Europe in September 1939 .
This was nine months before the U.S. entered the war in December  1941  .
Formally  titled  An Act to Further Promote the Defense of the United States , the Act effectively ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality .
A total of $ 50 .1 billion ( equivalent to $ today ) worth of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to Britain , $ 11.3 billion to the Soviet Union , $ 3.2 billion to France , $ 1.6 billion to China , and smaller sums to  अन्य allies .
Reverse Lend-Lease  comprised सेवाएं ऐसे as किराया  on air bases that went to the U.S. , and totaled $ 7.8 billion ; of this , $ 6.8 billion came from the British and the Commonwealth .
The  शर्तें  of the agreement provided that the materiel was to be used until time for their return or destruction .
Supplies after  the  termination date were sold to Britain at a large discount for £1 .075 billion using long-term loans from the United States .
Canada operated a similar program that sent $ 4.7 billion   in supplies to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union .
The United States did not charge for  सहायता  supplied under this legislation .
This  कार्यक्रम थी a निर्णायक  step away from non-interventionist policy , which had dominated United States foreign relations since the end of World War I , towards international involvement .
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ) , also called sunroot , sunchoke , earth apple or topinambour , is a species of sunflower native to eastern North America  , और मिला इससे पूर्वी कनाडा और maine वेस्ट  to North Dakota , and south to northern Florida and Texas .
It is also cultivated widely across the  temperate zone for  its tuber , which is used as a root vegetable .
Castillo San Felipe del Morro also known as Fort San Felipe del Morro or Morro Castle , is a  16th-century  citadel located in San Juan , Puerto Rico .
Stonehenge is  a  prehistoric monument in Wiltshire , England , about west of Amesbury and north of Salisbury .
One of the most famous sites in the world , Stonehenge is the remains of a ring of standing   stones set within earthworks .
It is in the middle  of the  most dense complex of Neolithic and Bronze Age monuments in England , including several hundred burial mounds .
Archaeologists believe  it  was built anywhere from 3000 BC to 2000 BC .
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested  that the first stones were  raised between 2400 and 2200 BC , whilst another theory suggests that bluestones may have been raised at the site as early as 3000 BC .
The surrounding circular earth bank and ditch  ,  which constitute the earliest phase of the monument , have been dated to about 3100 BC .
The site and its surroundings were added to the  युनेस्को 's सूची  of World Heritage Sites in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge .
It is a national legally protected Scheduled Ancient  स्मारक  .
Stonehenge is  स्वामित्व by the  Crown and managed by English Heritage , while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust .
Archaeological evidence found by   the Stonehenge Riverside Project in 2008 indicates that Stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings .
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that deposits contain human  अस्थि इससे as जल्दी  as 3000 BC , when the ditch and bank were first dug .
Such  जमा  continued at Stonehenge for at least another 500 years .
The site is a place of religious significance and  यात्राएं  in Neo-Druidry .
The NCAA Women 's Division I Championship is an annual college basketball   tournament for women .
Held each April , the Women 's  चैंपियनशिप  was inaugurated in the 1981–82 season .
The NCAA tournament  थी preceded  by the AIAW Women 's Basketball Tournament , which was held annually from 1972 to 1982 .
Basketball was one of  बारह महिलाओं 's खेल added to the ncaa चैंपियनशिप कार्यक्रम लिये  the 1981-82 school year , as the NCAA engaged in battle with the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports .
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship program in the same twelve ( and other ) sports ; however , after a year of dual women 's  championships , the ncaa prevailed ,  while the AIAW disbanded .
Attendance and interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the years , especially since 2003 , when the final championship  game  was moved to the Tuesday following the Monday men 's championship game .
The   women 's championship game is now the final overall game of the college basketball season .
Before that , the  महिलाओं 's फाइनल चार थी  usually played on the Friday before the Men 's Final Four or the hours before the men played on the final Saturday of the tournament .
The final was usually played  the  Sunday afternoon following the Men 's Final Four .
The tournament bracket is made up of  champions  from each Division I conference , which receive automatic bids .
The remaining slots are at-large  bids , with  teams chosen by an NCAA selection committee .
The selection process and tournament seedings are based on several factors , including team rankings , win-loss records and  दरजा  Percentage Index ( RPI ) data .
Unlike the men 's tournament , there are only 32 at-large bids ( as of the next tournament  in  2014 ) , and no play-in game .
The women 's tournament , like the men 's , is staged in a single elimination format , and is part of the media and public frenzy known  colloquially  as March Madness or The Big Dance .
All 63 games have been broadcast on television since  2003 on  ESPN and ESPN2 .
Similar to the pre-2011 men 's tournament coverage on CBS , local  टीमों  are shown on each channel when available , with `` whip-around '' coverage designed to showcase the most competitive contests in the rest of the country .
the rosetta स्टोन in the अंग्रेजों संग्रहालय
The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at  मेम्फिस  in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V .
The decree appears in three scripts : the upper text is Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs , the middle portion Demotic script , and  the न्यूनतम प्राचीन  Greek .
Because it presents essentially the same text in all three scripts  ( साथ कुछ नाबालिग मतभेद  between them ) , it provided the key to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs .
originally प्रदर्शित भीतर  a temple , the stone was probably moved during the early Christian or medieval period and eventually used as building material in the construction of Fort Julien near the town of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta .
It was rediscovered there in 1799 by a soldier , Pierre-François Bouchard , of the French  expedition  to Egypt .
As the first Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times , the Rosetta Stone aroused widespread public interest with its potential to decipher this hitherto  untranslated प्राचीन  language .
lithographic  copies and plaster casts began circulating among European museums and scholars .
Meanwhile , British troops defeated the French in  मिश्र in 1801 , और  the original stone came into British possession under the Capitulation of Alexandria .
Transported to London , it has been on  पब्लिक  display at the British Museum since 1802 .
It is the most-visited  ऑब्जेक्ट  in the British Museum .
Ever since its rediscovery , the stone has been the focus of nationalist  rivalries , including its transfer  from French to British possession during the Napoleonic Wars , a long-running dispute over the relative value of Young 's and Champollion 's contributions to the decipherment , and since 2003 , demands for the stone 's return to Egypt .
Study of the decree  was  already under way as the first full translation of the Greek text appeared in 1803 .
It was 20 years , however , before the transliteration of the Egyptian scripts was announced by Jean-François Champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still before scholars were able  to  read Ancient Egyptian inscriptions and literature confidently .
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the same text ( 1799 ) ; that the demotic text used phonetic characters to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic text did so as well ,  and had pervasive similarities  to the demotic ( Thomas Young , 1814 ) ; and that , in addition to being used for foreign names , phonetic characters were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion , 1822–1824 ) .
Two other fragmentary copies of the same decree were discovered later , and several similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions are now known , including  दो थोड़ा पहले ptolemaic डिक्री  ( the Decree of Canopus in 238 BC , and the Memphis decree of Ptolemy IV , ca . 218 BC ) .
The Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer unique , but it was the essential key to modern understanding of  प्राचीन  Egyptian literature and civilization .
The term Rosetta Stone is now used in other contexts as the name for the  अनिवार्य सुराग  to a new field of knowledge .
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison frog , poison frog or formerly poison arrow frog  ) is the common name of  a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to Central and South America .
ये  species are diurnal and often have brightly colored bodies .
Although  सब जंगली  dendrobatids are at least somewhat toxic , levels of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the next and from one population to another .
Many species   are threatened .
These amphibians are often called `` dart frogs '' due to the  amerindians ' स्वदेशी  use of their to poison the tips of blowdarts .
However , of over 175 species , only four have been documented as being used for this purpose ( curare plants are more commonly used ) , all of which come from the Phyllobates genus , which is characterized by the relatively large size and high levels of toxicity  of  its members .
cajeta is a मैक्सिकन confection of thickened सिरप प्रायः बना of sweetened caramelised  milk .
According to chef Rick Bayless , the name for cajeta came from  the स्पेनी phrase al punto de cajeta ,  which means `` a liquid thickened to the point at which a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked '' .
Another hypothesis is that it takes its name from the small wooden  बाक्स in जिससे  it was traditionally packed .
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the  state of Guanajuato  , although it is also produced with the traditional method in several towns of the state of Jalisco , such as Mazamitla , Sayula , and Atotonilco el Alto .
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk , or occasionally  a sweetened  liquid , stirring frequently , until it becomes very viscous due to evaporation of water , and caramelized .
While goat milk is the most usual base , other liquids  or रस may be  used .
In Celaya , and eventually the rest of Mexico , the confection of half goat 's milk and half cow 's milk became known by the name cajeta , but elsewhere , the milk candy became known as  leche quemada  , dulce de leche , etc .
It has cousins in the many Indian milk-based  मिठाई जैसे प्रभा और the मिल्क फ़ज burfi  , and in the opera fudge of the U.S. Cajeta is eaten on its own as a sweet , as a spread or filling for breads and pastries , such as churros , and as a topping for ice cream .
Certain liquors are added to special recipes called  cajeta  envinada .
In addition ,  cajeta  envinada especial is enriched with raisins , almonds , pecans or nuts .
Often it is used as a topping for crêpes , as a sweet sauce boiled and softened down with milk to soak the crepes , resulting in a tasty dessert   .
In Mexico many brands make cajeta but the most  आम ब्रांड  is Coronado .
It is also very common to place cajeta  between obleas  to make a traditional Mexican dessert .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur  Philip  Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) , is the elder son of Charles , Prince of Wales , and Diana , Princess of Wales , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line of succession  ,  behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , Jamaica , Barbados , The Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United Kingdom and  प्राप्त a उपाधि  from the University of St Andrews .
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile , Belize , Tanzania , and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed several  times  .
Prince William has also taken Kiswahili studies at universities in Kenya and  तंजानिया  .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince Harry  —and , two  years later , earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 ,  he transferred  to the Royal Air Force , was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force .
in 2010 , he समाप्त उसके सामान्य और special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर प्रशिक्षण और गई on to raf घाटी on no . 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing co-pilot कर्तव्य on फलक a समुद्र किंग ढूंढें और बचाव हेलीकाप्टर  .
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend , Catherine Middleton , on 29 April 2011 at  वेस्टमिंस्टर  Abbey .
घंटों prior to उसके विवाह , प्रिंस विलियम थी निर्मित ड्यूक of कैम्ब्रिज , अर्ल of strathearn , और सामन्त carrickfergus  .
Mali  is  a multilingual country .
The  भाषाएं  spoken there reflect ancient settlement patterns , migrations , and its long history .
Ethnologue  रिश्तो 50  languages .
Of these , French is the official language and Bambara is  the  most widely spoken .
Altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of Mali  have  the legal status of national language .
Sign in French , at a monument   in Bamako .
{  { infobox  Holiday
Chinese New  साल
9 – 12 February (  वियतनाम  )
Rogers Building ,  the मुख्यालय  of Rogers Communications
Rogers Communications  inc.  is a diversified public Canadian communications and media company .
It  is विशेषकर in the फ़ील्ड of बेतार संचार , केबल टेलीविज़न , टेलीफोन , और अंतरजाल कनेक्टिविटी साथ significant अतिरिक्त दूरसंचार और द्रव्यमान मीडिया एसेट .
The company is headquartered in the Rogers Building in Toronto  , Ontario  .
The company claims the heritage of the Rogers Vacuum Tube Company , founded in 1925 by Edward Rogers , which started the CFRB radio station in Toronto  , which was later  acquired by outside interests .
The present enterprise dates to 1960 , when Rogers ' son ,  टेड रोजर्स , संस्थापित  Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd .
That company acquired CHFI  that  year , as well as Aldred-Rogers Broadcasting , a partnership with Joel Aldred which helped launch CFTO in 1961 .
Rogers later bought out  aldred  and started the current cable and wireless operations , known as Rogers Cablesystems Ltd .
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada , which has a similarly extensive portfolio of radio and television media assets , as well as wireless , television distribution , and telephone services , particularly in Eastern and Central Canada ; the  two  companies are often seen as having a duopoly on communications services in their regions .
However , the company also competes nationally with Telus for wireless services , and primarily   indirectly with Shaw Communications for television service .
The company also competes with a number of  other media  companies in the broadcasting industry .
The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that use the standard Internet protocol  suite (  TCP/IP ) to serve billions of users worldwide .
It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private , public , academic , business , and government networks , of local to global scope , that  are linked by a broad array of  electronic , wireless and optical networking technologies .
The Internet carries an extensive range of information resources and services , such as the inter-linked hypertext documents of the World Wide Web  ( WWW ) and  the infrastructure to support email .
Most traditional communications media including  टेलीफोन  , music , film , and television are being reshaped or redefined by the Internet , giving birth to new services such as voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) and Internet Protocol television ( IPTV ) .
समाचारपत्र  , book and other print publishing are adapting to Web site technology , or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds .
The  अंतरजाल  has enabled and accelerated new forms of human interactions through instant messaging , Internet forums , and social networking .
Online shopping  रै boomed दोनो  for major retail outlets and small artisans and traders .
business-to-business  and financial services on the Internet affect supply chains across entire industries .
The origins of the Internet reach back to research commissioned by the United States government  in the 1960s to  build robust , fault-tolerant communication via computer networks .
The funding of a  नई u.S.  backbone by the National Science Foundation in the 1980s , as well as private funding for other commercial backbones , led to worldwide participation in the development of new networking technologies , and the merger of many networks .
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s  an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संजाल resulted  in its popularization and incorporation into virtually every aspect of modern human life .
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the world 's human population —have used the services of the  अंतरजाल  ; approximately 100 times more people than were using it in 1995 , when it was mostly used by tech-savvy middle and upper class people in the United States and several other countries .
The Internet has no centralized governance in either  technological  implementation or policies for access and usage ; each constituent network sets its own policies .
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name spaces in the Internet , the Internet Protocol address  space and  the Domain Name System , are directed by a maintainer organization , the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ) .
The technical underpinning and  मानकीकरण of the कोर प्रोटोकॉल ( ipv4 और  IPv6 ) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF ) , a non-profit organization of loosely affiliated international participants that anyone may associate with by contributing technical expertise .
The 2006 Winter Olympics , officially known as the XX Olympic Winter Games , was a winter multi-sport event which was  मनाये in टोरीनो , इटली इससे फ़रवरी 10  , 2006 , through February 26 , 2006 .
This marked the second time Italy hosted the Olympic Winter Games , the first being the VII Olympic Winter Games in Cortina  d'ampezzo  in 1956 .
इटली  also hosted the Games of the XVII Olympiad in Rome in 1960 .
Turin was selected as the  host  city for the 2006 games in 1999 .
The  आधिकारिक लोगो प्रदर्शित the नाम `` टोरिनो '' , the इतालवी नाम of the नगर ; the नगर is ज्ञात as `` टोरीनो '' in दोनो अंग्रेज़ी और the लोकल परंपरागत भाषा , pms .
The Olympic mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve  ( ``  snow '' in Italian ) , a female snowball , and Gliz , a male ice cube .
The official motto of the XX Olympic Winter Games was ``  जुनून जीवनदान  here '' .
`` Help ! '' is a song by the Beatles that served as the title song for both the 1965 film and its  साउंडट्रैक  album .
It was also released as a single , and was number one for three weeks in both the United States and the  संयुक्त किंगडम  .
`` Help ! '' was  लिखा primarily  by John Lennon , but credited to Lennon–McCartney .
During an interview with Playboy in 1984 , Paul  mccartney stated  that the title was `` out of desperation '' .
Poster for the  2005  exhibition
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ) , who usually gave his name as S. Bing , and was thus often referenced erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( Samuel Otto Bing , 1850–1905 , was his brother ) was a German art dealer who lived in Paris as  an  adult , and who helped introduce Japanese art and artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century .
Comparison of male and female life expectancy at birth for countries and territories as defined in the 2011 CIA  factbook  , with selected bubbles labelled .
The dotted line corresponds to equal female  and  male life expectancy .
The apparent 3D volumes of the bubbles   are linearly proportional to their population .
This is a list  of  countries by life expectancy at birth .
Kennewick is a city in Benton County in the southeastern part of the U.S. state of   Washington , near the Hanford nuclear site .
It is the most populous of the three cities  collectively  referred to as the Tri-Cities ( the others being Pasco and Richland ) .
Kennewick is located along the southwest bank of the Columbia River , opposite Pasco and just south of  the संगम  of the Columbia and Yakima rivers .
the  population was 73,917 at the 2010 census .
April 1 , 2012 estimates from the Washington State Office of Financial  Management put  the city 's population at 75,160 .
The nearest commercial airport is  the tri-cities  Airport in Pasco , a regional commercial and private airport .
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the #  2 क्षेत्रफल in the संयुक्त  States for job growth , while nearby Yakima was named # 1 .
The article cites the number of scientists employed by the Pacific  उत्तरपश्चिम नेशनल  Laboratory and area farmland for this outlook .
The prothrombin time ( PT ) and   its derived measures of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and international normalized ratio ( INR ) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation .
इस परीक्षण is भी पुकारा `` protime inr '' और `` pt/inr '' .
They are  प्रयुक्त to determine the clotting tendency of रक्त , in the माप of warfarin dosage , जिगर क्षति , और विटामिन k औकात .
PT measures factors I (  फाइब्रिनोजेन  ) , II ( prothrombin ) , V , VII , and X .
It is used in conjunction with  the  activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) which measures the intrinsic pathway .
`` I 'm in the Mood for Love   '' is a popular song .
The music  थी  written by Jimmy McHugh , the lyrics by Dorothy Fields .
The song was  प्रकाशित  in 1935 .
It was introduced by  frances langford  in the movie Every Night at Eight released that year .
The song was featured in the 1936 Our  Gang ( Little  Rascals ) short , The Pinch Singer , sung by Carl `` Alfalfa '' Switzer , and in the 1936 film Palm Springs .
It is often known to be Switzer 's   signature song .
James Moody 's saxophone solo on a 1952 recording of this song  प्रेरित the  song `` Moody 's Mood for Love `` .
Hip hop artist Prince Paul sampled the song as the basis for the track `` Mood for Love '' on his album A Prince Among Thieves  ( 1999 ) , साथ  Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics .
The song 's  शीर्षक प्रेरित  the English title of Wong Kar Wai 's movie In the Mood for Love .
cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान  is the scientific study of human behavior and mental processes , including both their variability and invariance , under diverse cultural conditions .
Through expanding research methodologies to recognize  सांस्कृतिक variance  in behavior , language , and meaning it seeks to extend and develop psychology .
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed largely in North America , some psychologists became concerned that constructs accepted as universal were not as invariant as previously   assumed , especially since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success .
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes , such as affect , cognition , conceptions of the self , and issues such as psychopathology , anxiety , and depression , may lack external validity when `` exported '' to other cultural contexts , cross-cultural psychology re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in  सांस्कृतिक मतभेद so as to खाता  for cultural variance .
Although some  critics have pointed to  methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and claim that serious shortcomings in the theoretical and methodological bases used impede rather than help the scientific search for universal principles in psychology , cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur , rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry .
In 1972 the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ  of Cross-Cultural Psychology ( IACCP ) was established .
This branch of  मनोविज्ञान रै जारी  to expand as there has been an increasing popularity of incorporating culture and diversity into studies .
Cross-cultural psychology is  differentiated  from Cultural psychology .
The latter is the branch of psychology that  holds  that human behavior is significantly influenced by cultural differences , meaning that psychological phenomena can only be compared with each other across cultures to a very limited extent .
In contrast  , cross-cultural  psychology includes a search for possible universals in behavior and mental processes .
Walter J. Lonner , writing for Eye on Psi Chi , has stated that `` cross-cultural psychology can be  विचार of as a प्रकार  research methodology , rather than an entirely separate field within psychology ( 2000 ) . ''
``  यहूदा  '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga , from her second studio album Born This Way ( 2011 ) .
It  थी released by interscope  Records on April 15 , 2011 , four days ahead of its scheduled release .
Written  और  produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne , `` Judas '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her .
It  embodies the  incidents that have haunted Gaga in the past , and its core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring one 's inner darkness in order to bring  oneself into the  light .
The artwork for  the सिंगल थी  designed by Gaga in Microsoft Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious  groups  , the song was generally well received by critics , who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single .
The  सोंग रै  a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced tracks , including `` Poker Face `` , `` LoveGame `` , `` Bad Romance '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains  तीन पृथक  hooks and a house -influenced break down .
Gaga   explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about her as beyond redemption , regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be .
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening , but was less successful commercially in comparison to Gaga 's previous  singles  .
The song reached the  शीर्ष टेन  of the charts in most major music markets , and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea .
A music video for the song was  फिल्माया in अप्रैल 2011  , co-directed by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus .
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas Iscariot and Gaga played Mary  magdalene  .
The video portrays them as modern day  प्रचारकों  going to Jerusalem .
It included the Biblical story of Judas betraying Jesus , and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to  मौत  .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious imagery and her role in the video   .
However , critics  generally  praised the video , not finding any offensive content .
The video was  nominated  for two awards at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows , including The Graham Norton Show , Saturday Night Live , Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series ''  , the फ्रेंच x फ़ैक्टर as खूब as on the एलेन degeneres  Show .
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video  कोडिंग  ) is a standard for video compression , and is currently one of the most commonly used formats for the recording , compression , and distribution of high definition video .
the फाइनल drafting कार्य on the पहला संस्करण of the मानक थी समाप्त in may 2003  .
h.264/mpeg-4 avc is a block-oriented motion-compensation  -based codec standard developed by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts Group ( VCEG ) together with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ) .
The project partnership effort is known as the Joint Video Team ( JVT   ) .
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the ISO/IEC MPEG-4 AVC standard  (  formally , ISO/IEC 14496-10 – MPEG-4 Part 10 , Advanced Video Coding ) are jointly maintained so that they have identical technical content .
H.264 is perhaps best known as being one of the codec standards for Blu-ray Discs ; all Blu-ray  Disc  players must be able to decode H.264 .
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources , such as videos from Vimeo , YouTube , and the iTunes Store , web software such as the Adobe Flash Player and Microsoft Silverlight , and also various HDTV broadcasts over terrestrial ( ATSC , ISDB-T , DVB-T or DVB-T2 )  , केबल  ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ) .
Non-binding  मध्यस्थता is a प्रकार of मध्यस्थता  in which the arbitrator makes a determination of the rights of the parties to the dispute , but this determination is not binding upon them , and no enforceable arbitration award is issued .
The `` award '' is in effect an   advisory opinion of the arbitrator 's view of the respective merits of the parties cases .
Non-binding arbitration is used in connection  साथ कोशिशें  to reach a negotiated settlement .
The role of an arbitrator in non-binding arbitration is , on the surface , similar to that of a mediator in a  मध्यस्थता  .
However , the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to compromise at , the arbitrator remains totally removed from  the settlement  process and will only give a determination of liability and , if appropriate , an indication of the quantum of damages payable .
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration , the parties remain free to pursue their claims  either through the न्यायालयों  , or by way of a binding arbitration , although in practice a settlement is the most common outcome .
The award and reasoning in a non-binding arbitration is almost invariably inadmissible in any subsequent action in the courts or  in  another arbitration tribunal .
Non-binding arbitration is utilised mostly in the United States  and Canada  .
It is largely unknown in Europe , although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a settlement to jointly instruct a  महारानी  's Counsel for an opinion on the merits and likely quantum of a claim , and then to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in that opinion .
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on  अगस्टाइन द्वीप in southwestern  Cook Inlet in the Kenai Peninsula Borough of southcentral coastal Alaska , southwest of Anchorage .
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount Augustine as Level of  चिंता रंग  Code Green for aviation and the Volcano Alert Level is at Normal .
Augustine Island has a land  area  of , while West Island , just off Augustine 's western shores , has .
The island is made up mainly of past eruption   deposits .
Scientists  have  been able to discern that past dome collapse has resulted in large avalanches .
A map  of  Belize .
The country of Belize has roughly 386 km of   coastline , and has many coral reefs , cays , and islands in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of these form the Belize Barrier Reef , the  longest in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध  stemming approximately .
The reef and its islands have been a UNESCO  World  Heritage Site since 1996 .
The following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize , arranged according to region but all of which are in the Caribbean  Sea  .
Most of  the  islands variate in spelling between `` cay '' and `` caye '' , and also use the Spanish `` cayo '' .
River  आइलैंड्स  have not been listed .
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued  वाणिज्यिक पैकेट लिखने अनुप्रयोग लिये  the Microsoft Windows operating system that allows optical disc data storage devices to be used in a manner similar to floppy disks .
DLA   is a packet writing technology for CD and DVD media that uses the UDF file system .
DLA is not compatible with Windows  Vista  and newer , although a patch exists to fix this issue under Windows Vista .
Roxio Burn was  introduced  on April 30 , 2009 .
As a replacement for DLA , it  remedies संगतता  issues Internet Explorer 8 .
Alpha Rex Emmanuel Humbard ( August 13 , 1919 – September 21 ,  2007 ) थी a well-known अमरीकी  television evangelist whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was shown on over 600 stations at the peak of its popularity .
Limitless is a 2011 American thriller film directed by Neil Burger and starring  ब्राडली कूपर  , Abbie Cornish , and Robert De Niro .
It is based on the 2001 novel The Dark Fields by Alan Glynn with the  पटकथा by  Leslie Dixon .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent , with the   international boundary with Canada to the east , the Arctic Ocean to the north , and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the largest state in the United States  by क्षेत्रफल ,  the 4th least populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States .
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449   residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil , natural  gas ,  and fishing industries ; it has these resources in abundance .
Alaska  was  purchased from Russia on March 30 , 1867 , for $ 7.2 million ( $ adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several  प्रशासनिक परिवर्तन पहले बनने an व्यवस्थित  ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11 , 1912 , and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in the Russian colonial period , when it was used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq , meaning `` the mainland '' or , more literally , `` the object towards which the action  of  the sea is directed '' .
It is also known as Alyeska , the `` great land '' , an Aleut  शब्द निकला इससे the  same root .
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University ( NMMU ) is a South African tertiary education  संस्था  with its main administration in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth .
A merging of three institutions  founded  NMMU in January 2005 but its history dates back to 1882 with the foundation of Port Elizabeth Art School .
The University  draws अंतरराष्ट्रीय  students from all over the world .
There are over 3000 international students and include students from the United States , France , China , Germany , Belgium , Denmark , Finland , Netherlands , Norway , Sweden , United Kingdom and many other  देशों  .
NMMU is a comprehensive university offering  पेशेवर और  vocational training .
The University has six campuses - five in Port Elizabeth  और एक  in George .
the  main campus is the South Campus .
Students at NMMU can study  towards diplomas  and degrees up to and including doctoral level qualifications .
A number of courses include workplace experience as part of  the  curriculum .
CoverGirl is an American cosmetics brand founded in Maryland , by the Noxzema Chemical Company ( later called Noxell )  and  acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989 .
The Noxell Company advertised this  cosmetics line by allowing  `` cover girls '' , fashion models who appear on the front cover of women 's magazines , to wear its products .
covergirl  makes up for lack of direct individual customer service by providing a wide variety of cosmetics available at reasonable prices .
On the Origin of Species , published on 24 November 1859 , is a work of scientific literature  by चार्ल्स डार्विन जिससे is माना to  be the foundation of evolutionary biology .
Its full title was On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection  , or the  Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life .
लिये the छठे संस्करण of 1872 , the छोटी शीर्षक थी बदला to the उत्पत्ति of प्रजाति .
Darwin  's  book introduced the scientific theory that populations evolve over the course of generations through a process of natural selection .
it प्रस्तुत a देह of प्रमाण कि the विविधता of जीवन arose by आम descent through a branching पैटर्न of  evolution .
Darwin included   evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s and his subsequent findings from research , correspondence , and experimentation .
Various evolutionary ideas had already been proposed  to  explain new findings in biology .
There was growing support for such ideas among dissident anatomists and the general public , but during the first half of the  19th सदी the अंग्रेज़ी वैज्ञानिक स्थापना  was closely tied to the Church of England , while science was part of natural theology .
Ideas about the transmutation of species were controversial as they conflicted with the beliefs that species were unchanging  भाग of  a designed hierarchy and that humans were unique , unrelated to other animals .
The political and theological implications  were  intensely debated , but transmutation was not accepted by the scientific mainstream .
The book was written for  non-specialist  readers and attracted widespread interest upon its publication .
As Darwin was an eminent  वैज्ञानिक , उसके  findings were taken seriously and the evidence he presented generated scientific , philosophical , and religious discussion .
The debate over the book contributed to the campaign by T.H . Huxley and his fellow members of the X Club to secularise  विज्ञान  by promoting scientific naturalism .
Within two decades there was widespread scientific  अनुबंध कि  evolution , with a branching pattern of common descent , had occurred , but scientists were slow to give natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate .
During the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` from the 1880s to the 1930s , various other mechanisms of evolution were given  अधिक क्रेडिट  .
With  the विकास of the आधुनिक विकासवादी संश्लेषण in the 1930s और 1940s , डार्विन 's अवधारणा of विकासवादी अनुकूलन through प्राकृतिक चयन became सेंट्रल to आधुनिक विकासवादी सिद्धान्त , अभी the unifying अवधारणा of the जीवन sciences .
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' Stengel ( ; July 30   , 1890 – September 29 , 1975 ) , nicknamed `` The Old Perfessor '' , was an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager .
He  थी निर्वाचित to  the Baseball Hall of Fame in .
Stengel was born in Kansas City , Missouri , and originally nicknamed `` Dutch '' , a common nickname  at  that time for Americans of German ancestry .
After his major league career began , he  acquired the उपनाम `` केसी '' , जिससे originally आए इससे the आद्याक्षर of उसके गृहनगर ( `` K. C. '' ) , जिससे विकसित into `` केसी '' , बहकावे by the चौड़ी लोकप्रियता of the कविता केसी at the चमगादड़ .
In the 1950s , sportswriters dubbed him with yet another nickname , `` The Old Professor '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ) , for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at  length on anything baseball  -related .
हालांकि उसके बेसबॉल करियर spanned a क्रमांक of टीमों और शहरों , he is primarily संबद्ध साथ क्लब in नई यॉर्क नगर .
Between playing and  मैनेजिंग , he is the तभी  man to have worn four of New York 's major league clubs ' uniforms .
He was the first of  चार मेन ( through  the season ) to manage both the New York Yankees and New York Mets ; Yogi Berra , Dallas Green , and Joe Torre are the others .
Like Torre , he  भी  managed the Braves and the Dodgers .
He ended his baseball career as the beloved manager for the then expansion New  York Mets  , which won over the hearts of New York partly due to the unique character of their veteran leader .
June ( ) is the sixth month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars and one of the four months  with a length of 30  days .
Ovid provides two etymologies for June 's name in his  कविता  concerning the months entitled the Fasti .
The first is that the month is named after the Roman goddess Juno , wife of Jupiter and equivalent to the Greek goddess Hera ; the second is that the name comes from the Latin word  iuniores , अर्थ `` younger ones , '' as opposed to maiores ( `` बड़ो  '' ) for which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ) .
See : Months in  विभिन्न पंचांग  also called the season of the June is the month with the longest daylight hours of the year in the Northern Hemisphere and the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere .
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the seasonal equivalent to December in the Southern Hemisphere  और वाइस versa  .
In the Northern hemisphere , the beginning of the  meteorological  summer is 1 June .
In the Southern hemisphere , the beginning  of  the meteorological winter is 1 June .
At the start of June , the sun rises  in the नक्षत्र  of Taurus ; at the end of June , the sun rises in the constellation of Gemini .
however  , due to the precession of the equinoxes , June begins with the sun in the astrological sign of Gemini , and ends with the sun in the astrological sign of Cancer .
June is known for the large number of marriages that occur over the course  of  the month .
According to one etymology ,  जून is नामित  after Juno ( Hera ) .
juno थी the देवी of विवाह और a शादीशुदा युगल 's household , so कुछ consider it शुभ लक to be शादीशुदा in इस माह .
According to another etymology provided by the Roman poet Ovid  , June is  named for the iuniores , latin for `` young people '' ( Fasti VI.88 ) and that the month of May is named for the maiores , Latin for `` elders '' .
In Iceland , folklore says that if you bathe naked in the morning dew on the morning of June 24 , you are supposed  to keep  aging at bay for longer .
A constitution is a set of fundamental principles or established precedents according to which a state or  अन्य संगठन  is governed .
These rules together make up , i.e . constitute , what  the  entity is .
When these principles are written down into a single document or set of legal documents , those documents may be said to embody a written constitution ; if they are written down in a single comprehensive document , it is  कहा to embody  a codified constitution .
Constitutions concern different levels of organizations , from sovereign  राज्य to कंपनियाँ  and unincorporated associations .
A treaty which establishes an international organization is also  its  constitution , in that it would define how that organization is constituted .
Within states , whether sovereign or  federated  , a constitution defines the principles upon which the state is based , the procedure in which laws are made and by whom .
Some constitutions ,  विशेषकर संहिताबद्ध constitutions  , also act as limiters of state power , by establishing lines which a state 's rulers can not cross , such as fundamental rights .
जार्ज वॉशिंगटन  at Constitutional Convention of 1787 , signing of U.S. Constitution .
The Constitution of India is the longest written constitution of any sovereign country in the world , containing 448 articles , 12 schedules and 100  amendments , with  117,369 words in its English language version , while the United States Constitution is the shortest written constitution , at 7 articles and 27 amendments .
Ron Diftler ( left ) , NASA  Robonaut  manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training session in the Space Environment Simulation Laboratory at NASA 's Johnson Space Center .
Engineering  प्रबन्धन is a specialized रूप  of management that is concerned with the application of engineering principles to business practice .
Engineering management is a career that brings together the technological problem-solving savvy of engineering and the organizational , administrative , and planning abilities of management in order to oversee complex  उद्यमों इससे धारणा  to completion .
Example areas of engineering are product development , manufacturing , construction ,  डिज़ाइन  engineering , industrial engineering , technology , production , or any other field that employs personnel who perform an engineering function .
कामयाब अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबंधक typically आवश्यकता प्रशिक्षण और अनुभव in कारोबार और  engineering .
Technically inept managers tend to be deprived of support by their technical team , and non-commercial  प्रबंधक  tend to lack commercial acumen to deliver in a market economy .
Largely , engineering   managers manage engineers who are driven by non-entrepreneurial thinking , thus require the necessary people skills to coach , mentor and motivate technical professionals .
Engineering professionals joining manufacturing companies sometimes become engineering  प्रबंधक by डिफॉल्ट  after a period of time .
They are required to learn how to manage once they are on the job , though  this is  usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities .
In an insurance policy , the deductible is the amount of  खर्च  that must be paid out of pocket before an insurer will pay any expenses .
In general usage , the term deductible may be used to describe one of several  प्रकार  of clauses ( see below ) that are used by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments .
Deductibles are typically used to deter the large  क्रमांक of नगण्य  claims that a consumer can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of .
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant enough to incur large costs , the insurance firm expects to pay out slightly smaller amounts much less  अक्सर  , incurring much higher savings .
As a result , insurance premiums are   typically cheaper when they involve higher deductibles .
Deductibles  are normally  provided as clauses in an insurance policy that dictate how much of an insurance-covered expense is borne by the policyholder .
They are normally quoted as a fixed quantity and is a part  of most policies  covering losses to the policy holder .
The insurer then becomes liable for claimable expenses that exceed this amount (  विषय to  the maximum sum claimable indicated in the contract ) .
Depending on the policy , the deductible may apply per covered  incident ,  or per year .
For policies where  incidences  are not easy to delimit ( for example health insurance ) , the deductible is typically applied per year .
Several deductibles can be set by the insurer based on the cause of the   claim .
For example , a  सिंगल आवास  insurance policy may contain multiple deductible amounts for loss or damage arising from theft , fire , natural calamities , evacuation etc .
There are also deductible reimbursement programs that reimburse a  deductible  in the event of an auto , home , boat/yacht or health insurance claim .
An invoice or bill is a commercial document issued by a seller to a buyer , indicating the products , quantities , and agreed prices for products or services the seller has  provided  the buyer .
An invoice  indicates  the sale transaction only .
भुगतान शर्तें हैं स्वतंत्र of the चालान और हैं negotiated by the खरीदार और the विक्रेता .
भुगतान शर्तें हैं प्रायः शामिल on the चालान  .
The buyer could have already paid for the products or services listed  on  the invoice .
Buyer can also have a maximum  क्रमांक  of days in which to pay for these goods and is sometimes offered a discount if paid before the due date .
In the rental industry , an invoice must include a specific reference to the duration of the time being billed , so in addition to quantity , price and discount the  invoicing राशि is भी आधारित  on duration .
Generally each line of a rental invoice will refer to the actual  hours , days  , weeks , months , etc. , being billed .
From the point of view of a  विक्रेता ,  an invoice is a sales invoice .
From the point of view of a buyer , an invoice is a  खरीदें  invoice .
The document  indicates  the buyer and seller , but the term invoice indicates money is owed or owing .
In English , the context of the term invoice is usually used to clarify its meaning , such as `` We sent them an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice  इससे उन्हें  '' ( we owe them money ) .
The right main bronchus ( or right primary bronchus , or right principal bronchus )  is a bronchus of the respiratory  system .
It  is wider , shorter , और अधिक लंबवत in दिशा than the बाएँ .
It is about 2.5 cm long , and enters the right lung nearly  विपरीत  the fifth thoracic vertebra .
the azygos रग arches over it इससे पीछे ; और the सही pulmonary धमनी झूठ at पहला नीचे और तब in सामने of it .
About 2 cm from its commencement it gives off a branch to the upper  पालि of  the right lung .
This is termed the eparterial branch  of the bronchus  , because it arises above the right pulmonary artery .
The bronchus now passes below the artery , and is known as the hyparterial  शाखा ; it  divides into two branches for the middle and lower lobes .
If a foreign body in the  airway  passes through the trachea , it will most likely enter the right main bronchus instead of the left , due to the straighter alignment of the right bronchus to the trachea .
Squash is a racquet sport played by two ( singles ) or four players ( doubles ) in a  four-walled अदालत साथ a छोटी  , hollow rubber ball .
The players must alternate in striking the ball with their racquet and hit the ball onto the playable surfaces of the four walls of  the अदालत  .
the खेल थी formerly पुकारा स्क्वैश racquets , a सन्दर्भ to the `` squashable '' नरम बॉल प्रयुक्त in the खेल ( compared साथ the fatter बॉल प्रयुक्त in इसके जनक खेल racquets or rackets )  .
Squash is recognized by the IOC   and supporters are lobbying for its incorporation in a future Olympic program .
In 2003 , Forbes rated   squash as the number one healthiest sport to play .
अवशेष  oil is oil found in low concentrations naturally or in exhausted oil fields .
Often mixed with water , it can not be  बरामद  by conventional techniques .
however , it can be बरामद using कार्बन dioxide-enhanced आयल रिकवरी ( co2 eor ) जिससे involves injecting कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड into the खूब reducing श्यानता और बढ़ाना प्रवाह  of the oil .
The technique is not new but  रै  not been used extensively on residual oil zones , low-grade deposits of petroleum such as the 38 square miles in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr .
The technique  is सीमित  by availability of carbon dioxide .
It does not result in sequestration of the carbon dioxide  लकिन the  gas is recycled as much as possible .
United States reserves of residual oil are estimated to be 100  अरब  barrels .
Artist 's rendering of the  आग , by जॉन R.  Chapin , originally printed in Harper 's Weekly ; the view faces northeast across the Randolph Street Bridge .
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration that burned from Sunday , October 8 , to early Tuesday , October 10 , 1871 , killing  सैंकड़ों और destroying  about in Chicago , Illinois .
Though the fire was one of the largest U.S. disasters of the 19th century , the  पुनर्निर्माण  that began helped develop Chicago as one of the most populous and economically important American cities .
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 )  थी किंग  of England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later king , of Ireland , as well as continuing the nominal claim by the English  monarchs  to the Kingdom of France .
Henry was the second  monarch of  the Tudor dynasty , succeeding his father , Henry VII .
Besides his six marriages , Henry VIII is known for his role in the separation of the  गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the रोमन  Catholic Church .
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to the separation of the Church of   England from papal authority , the Dissolution of the Monasteries , and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
Yet he remained a believer in core Catholic theological  teachings ,  even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the legal union of  इंग्लैण्ड  and Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542 .
in 1513 , the नई किंग अलाइड साथ the पावन रोमन सम्राट , maximillian i , और invaded फ़्रांस in 1513 साथ a विशाल , well-equipped फौज , लकिन हासिल छोटी at a considerable वित्तीय  cost .
Maximillian , for his part , used the English invasion to his own ends , and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the  फ्रेंच  .
This foray would prove the start of an obsession for Henry , who  invaded  again in 1544 .
This time , Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne , but again the Holy Roman Emperor , Charles V , supported Henry only as long as he needed  to and England , strained by the enormous  cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
उसके contemporaries माना हेनरी in उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक , शिक्षित और संपन्नता किंग , और he रै महरूम वर्णित as `` एक of the सबसे charismatic शासकों to बैठना on the  English throne '' .
Besides  सत्ताधारी साथ निरपेक्ष शक्ति , he भी सगाई खुद as an लेखक और composer .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses –  led  to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became morbidly obese and his health   suffered , contributing to his death in 1547 .
He is  अक्सर  characterised in his later life as a lustful , egotistical , harsh , and insecure king .
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language telenovela produced by the United States television network Telemundo  ,  in conjunction with the Antena 3 network and RTI Producciones .
Based on a novel of the same name by Spanish author Arturo Pérez-Reverte , the drama depicts the rise of Teresa Mendoza ( Kate del Castillo ) , a young woman from   Mexico who becomes the most powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain .
Patricio Wills , the president of Telemundo Television Studios ,  थी  the executive producer .
Though La Reina del Sur was nominated  for Novela of the  Year , Favorite Lead Actress , and Best Bad Luck Video , it won no awards .
With a $ 10 million budget , La Reina del Sur was  the  most expensive telenovela ever produced by Telemundo .
The program 's premiere on February 28 , 2011 , was the network 's  उच्चतम  rated premiere for a telenovela to date .
The program frequently dominated its time slot , even over English  भाषा प्रोग्रामिंग  on other major U.S. networks .
La Reina del Sur completed its 63 episode run on Telemundo and its 13 episode run on  एंटेना 3 simultaneously  on May 30 , 2011 .
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast in Telemundo 's 19-year history ( 4.2 million viewers ) , and beat all of the English language U.S. television networks to earn the number  एक  slot in the 18-49 adult demographic .
The program 's success spurred Telemundo to launch its first campaign to gain the  श्रेणी an एमी पुरस्कार  nomination .
A one-night special featuring several cast members aired on May 31 ,  2011 , और चिह्नित  the Telemundo debut of noted Latina television personality Cristina Saralegui .
La Reina del Sur is broadcast in several other markets , including Serbia , Colombia , Chile , Cyprus , Nicaragua , Costa Rica , Mexico , Albania , Hungary , Slovenia ,  क्रोएशिया , रोमानिया  , ( among others ) .
An example of  रैक  mounted servers
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service  कि allows individuals  and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are  कंपनियाँ कि provide स्पेस  on a server owned or leased for use by clients , as well as providing Internet connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for other servers located in their data center , called colocation , also known as Housing in Latin  अमेरिका or  France .
The scope of web hosting  सेवाएं  varies greatly .
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting , where files can be   uploaded via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface .
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as  is '' or  with minimal processing .
Many Internet  सेवा प्रदाताओं  ( ISPs ) offer this service free to subscribers .
Individuals and organizations may   also obtain Web page hosting from alternative service providers .
Personal web site hosting is typically free ,  advertisement-sponsored  , or inexpensive .
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the size  और  type of the website .
Single page hosting is generally  sufficient लिये  personal web pages .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides  डेटाबेस support और  application development platforms ( e.g . PHP , Java , Ruby on Rails , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow customers to write or  स्थापना  scripts for applications like forums and content management .
Also , Secure Sockets Layer ( SSL )   is typically used for e-commerce .
The host may  also  provide an interface or control panel for managing the Web server and installing scripts , as well as other modules and service applications like e-mail .
Some hosts specialize in  निश्चित तन्त्र or सेवाएं  ( e.g . e-commerce ) , which are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure .
Madden NFL ( known as John Madden Football before 1993 ) is an American football  video game series  developed by Electronic Arts Tiburon for EA Sports .
The game series is named after Pro  फ़ुटबॉल हॉल of famer जॉन मैडेन  , a well-known former Super Bowl –winning coach of the Oakland Raiders and color commentator .
The series is the best selling EA   Sports series .
The games have consistently been a best   seller , and has even spawned TV shows where players compete .
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks and  खिलाड़ी  statistics , and voice commentary that allows players to hear the game as if it were a real TV broadcast .
The  मैडेन एनएफएल श्रेणी रै  been nicknamed the NFL 's 33rd Franchise .
The series was   originally conceived by Electronic Arts founder Trip Hawkins , who then approached Madden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise .
Due to Madden 's insistence that the game be as realistic as possible , the first version  of John Madden Football was  not released until 1988 .
The second version   of the game was released in 1990 , with annual versions since then .
The series ' name was changed to Madden NFL in 1993  बाद  EA acquired the rights to use NFL teams and players .
Despite Madden 's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009 , he continues to lend his name and  provide  expertise for the game .
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born July 10 , 1957 ) is an American antiwar activist whose son , U.S.  फौज  Specialist Casey Sheehan , was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War .
She attracted national and international media attention in  अगस्त 2005 लिये उसके विस्तारित  antiwar protest at a makeshift camp outside President George W. Bush 's Texas ranch —a stand that drew both passionate support and angry criticism .
Sheehan ran  unsuccessfully  for Congress in 2008 .
She is a vocal critic of  अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama 's foreign policy .
Her memoir , Peace Mom : A Mother 's Journey Through Heartache to Activism , was  प्रकाशित  in 2006 .
Sheehan was  the  2012 vice-presidential nominee of the Peace and Freedom Party .
Wyclef Jeanelle Jean ( ; ; born October 17 , 1969 ) Wyclef  dumped इससे हैती 's अध्यक्षीय  Ballot – TIME , Aug 21 , 2010 .
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he was running for President of Haiti , Wyclef Jean was   still listing his age as only 37 years old .
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate , the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop  star  also decided to come clean and confirm that he was really 40 . '' is a three-time Grammy Award -winning Haitian-American rapper , singer-songwriter , musician , record producer , and politician .
At age nine , Jean moved to   the United States with his family and has spent much of his life in the country .
He first  प्राप्त कीर्ति  as a member of the acclaimed New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees .
On August 5 , 2010 , Jean filed for candidacy in the 2010 Haitian presidential election , although the Electoral Commission subsequently  शासित  him ineligible to stand as he had not met the requirement to have been resident in Haiti for five years .
Wyclef Jean to appeal against Haiti election ruling –  बीबीसी न्यूज , अगस्त 22 , 2010  .
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr Jean was ineligible to stand as the Haitian constitution requires candidates to have lived in the  देश लिये पाँच  years prior to an election .
The  40-year-old सिंगर  lives in the US .
Jean 's efforts at earthquake  relief , highly publicized  in 2010 throughout Haiti and the United States , were channeled through his charitable organization , Yéle Haiti .
The charity , which performed a variety of  charitable works  in Haiti between 2005 and 2010 , effectively closed in 2012 .
In law , a set-off  is a statutory  defense to the whole or to a portion of a plaintiff 's claim .
It had no existence under the English common law , being created by 2 Geo  . ii c. 22 लिये  the relief of insolvent debtors , although set-off was recognized in equity .
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of mutual debts of a   definite character , and did not apply to cases in which damages were claimed , nor to equitable claims or demands .
By the rules of the Supreme Court ( O. XIX . r. 3 ) a defendant in an action may set off or set up any right or claim by way of counterclaim against the claims of a plaintiff , and such set-off or counterclaim  has the same effect as a  statement of claim in a cross-action .
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby a person ( `` Party A '' ) who owed money to another ( `` Party B '' ) could be sent to debtors prison , despite  the फैक्ट कि पार्टी b भी  owed money to Party A .
the विधि यूँ allows दोनो पार्टियों to टालना भुगतान जबतक उनके संबंधित दावा have महरूम सुना in अदालत .
Upon judgment , both claims are extinguished and replaced by a single net sum owing ( e.g . If Party A  owes पार्टी b 100 और पार्टी b owes पार्टी  A 105 , the two sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A ) .
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual agreement so that , where a  पार्टी मूलभूत  , the mutual amounts owing are automatically set off and extinguished .
in निश्चित jurisdictions ( सहित the uk ) , set-off takes प्लेस automatically upon the insolvency of a कम्पनी .
This means that , for each party which is both a creditor and debtor of the insolvent company , mutual debts are set-off against each other , and  तब  either the bankrupt 's creditor can claim the balance in the bankruptcy or the trustee in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid , depending on which side owed the most .
This has been criticized as an undeclared security interest that violates the  principle  of pari passu .
The alternative , where a creditor has to pay all its debts  , but  receive only a limited portion of the leftover moneys that other unsecured creditors get , poses the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies .
The right to set off is particularly important when reporting a bank 's  विकिरणों  to regulatory authorities .
The situation where a bank has to report that it has lent a large sum to a borrower ( and is therefore exposed , because there is a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to the loss of the bank 's or its depositors ' money ) is thus replaced  ( जहाँ the बैंको रै लिया सुरक्षा over साझा or  securities of the borrower ) with an exposure of the money lent minus the value of the security taken .
जेनिफर joanna एनिस्टन ( born फ़रवरी 11 , 1969 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , फिल्मी निदेशक , और निर्माता  .
Aniston gained  विश्वव्यापी मान्यता  in the 1990s for portraying Rachel Green on the television sitcom Friends , a role which earned her an Emmy Award , a Golden Globe Award , and a Screen Actors Guild Award .
एनिस्टन  has also enjoyed a successful Hollywood film career .
वो  gained critical acclaim for her performances in the independent films She 's the One ( 1996 ) , Office Space ( 1999 ) , The Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ) .
She has had her greatest commercial successes with the films Bruce Almighty ( 2003 ) , The Break-Up (  2006  ) , Marley & Me ( 2008 ) , Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ) .
Aniston received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on  फ़रवरी 22  , 2012 .
A white Bengal tiger at the Houston  एक्वेरियम
(  वीडियो  )
A White tiger at Tobu Zoo , in Saitama  , जापानी  .
The white tiger is a recessive mutant of the Bengal tiger , which was reported in the wild from time to time in Assam , Bengal , Bihar and especially from  the पूर्व  State of Rewa .
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect   , part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often shortened to just PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a processor bus , but in a standardized format that is  स्वतंत्र of कोई  particular processor .
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly to the processor bus , and are assigned  पता in the प्रोसेसर 's पता स्पेस  .
Attached devices can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the  मदरबोर्ड itself , पुकारा a planar  device in the PCI specification , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles , where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one  vesa  Local Bus as the bus configuration .
It has subsequently been adopted  लिये अन्य  computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are  being  replaced by PCI Express , but , most motherboards are still made with one or more PCI slots , which are sufficient for many uses .
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ) , electrical characteristics , bus timing ,  और  protocols .
The specification   can be purchased from the PCI Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network  ताश , ध्वनि ताश , modems , अतिरिक्त  ports such as USB or serial , TV tuner cards and disk controllers .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until  growing बैंडविड्थ आवश्यकताएँ  outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video cards became AGP , and then PCI Express .
PCI video cards remain available for use  साथ  old PCs without AGP or PCI Express slots .
Many devices previously provided on PCI  विस्तार  cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards or available in universal serial bus and PCI Express versions .
Caffeine is a bitter , white crystalline xanthine alkaloid   that acts as a stimulant drug .
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds , leaves , and fruit of some plants , where it acts as a natural pesticide that paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding on the plants , as  खूब as बढ़ाना  the reward memory of pollinators .
It is most commonly consumed by humans in infusions extracted from the seed of the coffee plant and the leaves of the tea bush , as  well  as from various foods and drinks containing products derived from the kola nut .
Other sources include yerba maté , guarana berries , guayusa , and the yaupon   holly .
In humans , caffeine  अधिनियमों as a  central nervous system stimulant , temporarily warding off drowsiness and restoring alertness .
It is the world 's most widely consumed psychoactive drug , but unlike many other  psychoactive substances  , it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world .
Beverages containing caffeine , such as coffee , tea , soft drinks , and energy drinks ,  आनंद ग्रेट  popularity .
In North America , 90 % of  वयस्कों  consume caffeine daily .
Part of the  कारण कैफीन is वर्गीकृत by  the Food and Drug Administration as GRAS ( generally recognized as safe ) is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) are much higher than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ) .
Ordinary consumption  can have कम  health risks , even when carried on for years – there may be a modest protective effect against some diseases , including Parkinsons Disease , and certain types of cancer .
Caffeine can have both  धनात्मक  and negative effects on anxiety disorders .
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine , especially during the evening hours , but others show little disturbance and the effect of  कैफीन on नींद  is highly variable .
Evidence of a risk to pregnancy is equivocal , but some authorities have concluded that prudent advice is for pregnant women  to  limit consumption to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less .
The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists ( ACOG ) concluded in 2010 that  कैफीन खपत is सुरक्षित  up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women .
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects when administered to people who are not used to it , but regular users develop a tolerance to this effect , and  अध्ययन have generally विफल to support the आम ख़्याल कि  ordinary consumption contributes significantly to dehydration .
With heavy use , tolerance develops rapidly to autonomic effects such as elevated heart  rate  and muscle twitching , but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine .
The degree to which caffeine can produce clinically significant physical and  दिमागी dependence remains  a subject of controversy in the medical literature .
A  kicktail  cruiser
A  longboard is  a longer variant of a skateboard .
It is commonly used for cruising , downhill racing , slalom racing , sliding ,  and/or हस्तांतरण  .
Sources outside  of  Wikipedia give differing estimates:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est . ) and the distribution of religions as Christian  100 % ( of जिससे रोमन कैथोलिक 18.85 % , प्रोटोस्टेंट 8.15 % , परंपरागत 4.96 % , anglican 1.26 % ) , मुस्लिम 22.74 % , हिन्दू  13.8 % , Buddhist 6.77 % , Sikh 0.35 % , Jewish 0.22 % , Baha'i 0.11 % , other religions 10.95 % , non-religious 9.66 % , atheists 2.01 % .
( 2010 est  .  ) .
The Coast Ranges of California span  from  Humboldt County , California south to Santa Barbara County .
The other three coastal California mountain ranges are the Transverse Ranges , Peninsular Ranges and the  klamath kyu  .
Physiographically , they are a section of the larger Pacific   Border province , which in turn are part of the larger Pacific Mountain System physiographic division .
UNESCO has included the `` California Coast Ranges Biosphere Reserve `` in its Man and the Biosphere Programme of World Network of   Biosphere Reserves since 1983 .
Vehicles  in उपयोग  per country from 2001 to 2007 .
It  shows  the significant growth in BRIC .
World map of passenger cars per 1000  लोगों
An automobile , autocar , motor car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle used for  transporting यात्री , जिससे  also carries its own engine or motor .
Most definitions of the term specify that automobiles are designed to run primarily on roads , to have seating for one to eight people , to typically have four wheels , and  to be constructed प्रधानतया  for the transport of people rather than goods .
The term motorcar has also been used in the context of electrified rail systems to denote a car which functions as a small locomotive but also  provides space for passengers and  baggage .
These locomotive   cars were often used on suburban routes by both interurban and intercity railroad systems .
It was estimated in  2010 कि the क्रमांक  of automobiles had risen to over 1 billion vehicles , up from the 500 million of 1986 .
the संख्याएँ हैं increasing rapidly , विशेषकर in चीन और इण्डिया  .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29 , 1917 – November 22 , 1963 ) , often referred to by his  आद्याक्षर jfk  , was the 35th President of the United States , serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service as commander of the Motor Torpedo Boats PT-109 and PT-59 during World  युद्ध ii in  the South Pacific , Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
Thereafter , he served   in the U.S. Senate from 1953 until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice President and Republican candidate  रिचर्ड निक्सन  in the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to have been elected to the office , the second-youngest President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ) , and the first person born in the 20th  सदी  to serve as president .
A  कैथोलिक  , Kennedy is the only non- Protestant president , and is the only president to have won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency included the Bay of  सूअर आक्रमण  , the Cuban Missile Crisis , the building of the Berlin Wall , the Space Race , the African-American Civil Rights Movement , and early stages of the Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy increased the number of military advisers , special operation forces , and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism  in  South East Asia .
The Kennedy  प्रशासन  adopted the policy of the Strategic Hamlet Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government .
It  शामिल  certain forced relocation , village internment , and segregation of rural South Vietnamese from the northern and southern communist insurgents .
कैनेडी थी assassinated on नवम्बर 22 , 1963 in डलास , टेक्सास  .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime , but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later ,  पहले a विचारण could लो  place .
The FBI  और  the Warren Commission officially concluded that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However , the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that those investigations were flawed and that Kennedy  was probably  assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
However , ABC News in their investigation , The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond  षड्यंत्र , पुष्टि  the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX  सेनानी bomber कार्यक्रम led  to a Congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
Since the 1960s information concerning Kennedy 's private  life has  come to light .
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become better  ज्ञात  , especially since the 1990s .
Although initially kept secret from the general public , reports of Kennedy 's philandering  have garnered much दबायें  .
Kennedy ranks  अत्यधिक in पब्लिक  opinion ratings of U.S. presidents .
A  siemens  MXL fire alarm control panel ( top ) and graphic annunciator ( bottom ) for Potomac Hall , at James Madison University .
A Vigilant VM-1 fire alarm control unit ( FACU ) /  autonomous कंट्रोल  unit ( ACU ) with integrated voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system .
Manufactured by Edwards , A UTC  F &  S Company
A  आग सचेतक कंट्रोल  Panel ( FACP ) , or Fire Alarm Control Unit ( FACU ) , is the controlling component of a Fire Alarm System .
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated with fire , monitors their operational integrity and provides for automatic control of equipment , and transmission of information necessary to prepare the facility  for fire based on a predetermined  sequence .
The panel may also  सप्लाई विद्युत  energy to operate any associated sensor , control , transmitter , or relay .
There are four basic  प्रकार of  panels : coded panels , conventional panels , addressable panels , and multiplex systems .
This is a list of the first music  वीडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट  on MTV 's first day , August 1 , 1981 .
MTV 's first day on the air was rebroadcast on VH1 Classic in 2006 and uploaded onto YouTube in 2010 ( although only the first  चार घंटों यहूद प्रामाणिक ; the  rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ) .
Bandaranaike International Airport  ( BIA ) (  also known as Katunayake International Airport and Colombo International Airport ) is one of the two international airports serving the city of Colombo , the other is Ratmalana International Airport .
Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport located in southern city of Hambantota is the other international  विमानक्षेत्र  in Sri Lanka .
Bandaranaike International Airport is located in  katunayake  , 22 miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo .
It is administered by Airport and Aviation Services ( Sri  लंका  ) Ltd .
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines , the national carrier of Sri Lanka ,  और mihin लंका  , the budget airline of Sri Lanka .
Black Swan is a 2010 American psychological thriller and horror film directed by Darren Aronofsky and starring Natalie Portman , Vincent Cassel  ,  and Mila Kunis .
The plot revolves around a production of Tchaikovsky 's Swan Lake ballet by a prestigious New York  नगर कम्पनी  .
The production requires a ballerina to play the innocent and fragile White Swan , for which the committed dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a perfect fit , as well as the dark and sensual Black Swan  , जिससे हैं qualities समाविष्ट by the नई आगमन  Lily ( Kunis ) .
Nina is overwhelmed by a  अहसास of immense दबाव जब वो पाता  herself competing for the part , causing her to lose her tenuous grip on reality and descend into a living nightmare .
Aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting his viewings of a production of Swan Lake with an  unrealized पटकथा  about understudies and the notion of being haunted by a double , similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers .
Aronofsky cites Fyodor Dostoyevsky 's `` The Double `` as another inspiration  for  the film .
The director   also considered Black Swan a companion piece to his 2008 film The Wrestler , with both films involving demanding performances for different kinds of art .
He and Portman first discussed the project in 2000 , and after a brief attachment   to Universal Studios , Black Swan was produced in New York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures .
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet for several months prior to filming , and notable figures from the ballet world helped  साथ फिल्मी उत्पादन to  shape the ballet presentation .
The film premiered as the opening film for the 67th  वेनिस  International Film Festival on September 1 , 2010 .
It had a limited release in the United States starting December 3 , 2010 and opened   nationwide on December 17 .
Black Swan received critical praise upon its release , particularly for Portman 's performance and Aronofsky 's direction , and was a significant box office   success , grossing $ 329 million worldwide .
The  फिल्मी प्राप्त पाँच अकादमी पुरस्कार nominations और पोर्टमैन जीती the बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार लिये the फिल्मी , as खूब as अनेक अन्य बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री पुरस्कार in अनेक guilds और त्यौहार , जबकि aronofsky थी मनोनीत लिये बेहतरीन निदेशक .
In addition , the film itself received a nomination for Best   Picture .
The world’s first  ice-calorimeter , प्रयुक्त in the शीत  of 1782-83 , by Antoine Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon Laplace , to determine the heat involved in various chemical changes ; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat .
These experiments mark the foundation of  thermochemistry  .
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor  , अर्थ ऊष्मा ) is an ऑब्जेक्ट प्रयुक्त लिये कैलोरीमिति  , or the process of measuring the heat of chemical reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity .
Differential scanning calorimeters , isothermal microcalorimeters , titration calorimeters and accelerated  rate  calorimeters are among the most common types .
A simple calorimeter just consists of a thermometer attached to a metal container full of water suspended  ऊपर a दहन  chamber .
To find the enthalpy change per mole of a substance A in a reaction between two substances A and B , the substances are added to a calorimeter and the initial and final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after  it has finished )  are noted .
Multiplying the temperature change by the mass and specific heat capacities of the substances gives a value for  the energy given  off or absorbed during the reaction .
dividing the उर्जा  change by how many moles of A were present gives its enthalpy change of reaction .
This method is  प्रयुक्त  primarily in academic teaching as it describes the theory of calorimetry .
It does not account for the heat  घाटा through the  container or the heat capacity of the thermometer and container itself .
In addition , the object placed inside the calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their heat to the calorimeter and into the liquid , and the heat absorbed by the calorimeter  and the liquid is equal to  the heat given off by the metals .
A  जोड़ी  of green flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri , thongs , jandals , or a variety of other names throughout the world  ) are a type of  open-toed sandal typically worn in casual situations , such as outside or at the beach .
They consist of a  flat sole  held loosely on the foot by a Y-shaped strap that passes between the first and second toes and around either side of the foot .
They may also be held to the foot with a single strap over the front of the foot  बल्कि  than a thong .
The name `` flip-flop '' originated because of the sound  कि is  made by slapping between the sole of the foot and the floor when walking .
This style of footwear has been worn by the people of many cultures  throughout the  world , originating as early as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 B.C .
The modern flip-flop descends from the Japanese zōri , which became popular after World  युद्ध ii जब सैनिको  returning to the United States brought them back .
They became popular in casual settings during the 1960s , 1990s , and 2000s ,  और कुछ किस्में  have even found their way into more formal attire , despite criticism .
the उपयोग of flip-flops can परिणाम in अनेक pains और चोटों , सहित टखने sprains और टूटा हड्डियों  .
Some individuals who walk for long  अवधि रपट  pain in the feet , ankles , and lower legs .
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often results in over-pronation injuries , caused by the foot slipping inwards   further than normal .
This  can सीसे  to flat feet and tendonitis .
Other injuries that may result are due to the footwear 's open-toed  प्रकृति , ऐसे as stubbed toes  , cuts , and bruises .
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned soles ,  as खूब as those  that have a strap that is not canvas and that comes back almost to the ankle .
The owners of Hanjin Osaka , seen here transiting   the Panama Canal in 2008 , declared general average following an explosion in the ship 's engine room on .
The law of  सामान्य औसत is a विधिक  principle of maritime law according to which all parties in a sea venture proportionally share any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency .
In the exigencies of hazards  faced at  sea , crew members often have precious little time in which to determine precisely whose cargo they are jettisoning .
Thus , to avoid  quarrelling  that could waste valuable time , there arose the equitable practice whereby all the merchants whose cargo landed safely would be called on to contribute a portion , based upon a share or percentage , to the merchant or merchants whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril .
While general average traces its origins in ancient maritime law , still it remains part of the admiralty law of most  देशों  .
The first codification of general average was the York  antwerp  Rules of 1890 .
American  कंपनियाँ  accepted it in 1949 .
General average requires three elements which are  clearly stated by mr. इंसाफ  Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
``  1st  .
A common danger : a danger in which vessel , cargo and crew all participate ; a danger imminent and apparently 'inevitable , ' except  by voluntarily रूष्ट the घाटा  of a portion of the whole to save the remainder . ''
`` 2nd . There must be a voluntary jettison , jactus , or casting away , of some portion of the joint concern for the purpose of avoiding this imminent peril , periculi imminentis  evitandi causa , or , in अन्य शब्द , a ट्रांसफ़र  of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole . ''
``  3rd  .
इस attempt to avoid the निकट आम peril जरूर be कामयाब '' .
Example Polish call for vaccination against  डिप्थीरिया और टेटनस  .
A vaccination schedule is a series of vaccinations , including  the  timing of all doses , which may be either recommended or compulsory , depending on the country of residence .
A vaccine is an antigenic preparation used to produce active immunity  to a  disease , in order to prevent or reduce the effects of infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen .
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum effectiveness , either  to  produce sufficient initial immune response or to boost response that fades over time .
For example , tetanus vaccine boosters are  प्रायः  recommended every 10 years .
Vaccine schedules are developed by governmental agencies or physicians groups to achieve maximum effectiveness using required and recommended vaccines for a  मोहल्ले जबकि महती the  number of health care system interactions .
Over the past two decades , the recommended vaccination schedule has grown   rapidly and become more complicated as many new vaccines have been developed .
Some vaccines are recommended only in certain areas ( countries , subnational  areas , or at-risk  populations ) where a disease is common .
For instance , yellow fever vaccination is on the routine vaccine schedule of French  Guiana , is recommended in  certain regions of Brazil but in the United States is only given to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease .
In developing countries , vaccine recommendations also take into account the level of health care access , the cost of vaccines and issues with vaccine  उपलब्धता और भंडार  .
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the World Health Organization show a developed country using a schedule which extends over the first five years of a child 's life and uses vaccines which cost over  $ 700 सहित प्रशासन लागत जबकि a विकासशील देश उपयोग  a schedule providing vaccines in the first 9 months of life and costing only $ 25 .
This difference is due to the lower cost of health care , the lower cost of many vaccines provided to developing nations , and that more expensive vaccines , often for less common diseases  , हैं नहीं utilized  .
in 1900 , the smallpox टीका थी the तभी एक administered to children  .
By the early 1950s  ,  children routinely received four vaccines , for protection against ( diphtheria , pertussis , tetanus , polio , and smallpox ) , and as many as five shots by two years of age .
Since the mid-1980s , many vaccines have been added to  the अनुसूची  .
, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) now recommends vaccination against at least fourteen  रोगों  .
By  दो सालो  of age , U.S. children receive as many as 24 vaccine injections , and might receive up to five shots during one visit to the doctor .
The use of combination vaccine products means that , , the United Kingdom 's immunization program  consists of 10 injections by the आयु of  two , rather than 25 if vaccination for each disease was given as a separate injection .
Two revellers dance  in  the streets .
the  form of dancing is called `` wining '' ( winding ) pronounced wine-ing
A Music Truck entertains  the भीड  on the streets .
Trucks are an integral part of the street parade ,  featuring  live performances or deejays
The Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an annual event held on the Monday and Tuesday before Ash Wednesday ,  और  is well known for participant 's colorful costumes and exuberant celebrations .
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago is the most significant event on the islands ' cultural and tourism calendar , with numerous   cultural events running in the lead up to the street parade on Carnival Monday and Tuesday .
It is said that if the islanders are not celebrating it , then they are preparing for it , while reminiscing about the  पास्ट साल 's पर्व  .
The heart of the musical celebration has been calypso ; recently soca has replaced calypso as the  सबसे मनाये प्रकार of म्यूज़िक  .
Costumes , stickfighting and limbo  प्रतियोगिताओं हैं भी महत्वपूर्ण  components of the festival .
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad and  टोबैगो is भी  celebrated in cities worldwide .
These including Toronto 's Caribana  ,  Miami 's Miami Carnival , Houston Carifest , London 's Notting Hill Carnival as well as New York City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few .
कार्निवल थी निर्मित  when West African slaves mimicked their French owners who where known for their lavish costumes balls .
Forbidden to partake in these festivities and confined to  उनके  quarters , slaves combined elements from their own cultures to their master 's fete .
Hence the creation of characters such as Jab Jab or Jab Molassie ( Devils ) , Midnight Robbers , Imps , Lagahroo , Soucouyant ,  la  Diablesse and Demons .
With the abolition of slavery in 1838 , freed  africans took उनके  version of Carnival to the streets through expression of drums , riddim sections like tamboo bamboo and as each new immigrant population entered Trinidad , Carnival evolved into what we know today .
The city of Chicago ,  इलिनोइस आयोजित a  nonpartisan mayoral election on Tuesday , February 22 , 2011 .
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley , a member of the Democratic  Party who had been  in office since 1989 , did not seek a seventh term as mayor .
Candidates needed to collect  12,500 याचिका  signatures by November 22 , 2010 to qualify for a place on the ballot .
April 5 , 2011 was scheduled to be a runoff election date if no candidate received an  निरपेक्ष  majority .
Rahm Emanuel won the race for  महापौर  with more than 55 % of the vote .
He  थी  inaugurated on May 16 , 2011 .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a song by American indie pop band Foster the People  .
It was released as the group 's debut single in September  2010 ,  and the following year was included on their EP Foster the People and their debut album Torches .
`` Pumped Up Kicks  '' became the  group 's breakthrough hit and was one of the most popular songs of 2011 .
The song was written and recorded by frontman  चिह्नित  Foster while he was working as a commercial jingle writer .
Contrasting with the upbeat musical composition , the lyrics describe the  homicidal विचार  of a troubled youth .
The track received considerable  attention  after it was posted online in 2010 as a free download , and it helped the group garner a multi-album record deal with Columbia Records imprint Startime International .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' proved to be a sleeper hit ; in 2011 , after receiving significant airplay on modern rock stations , the  song  crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations .
The song spent eight consecutive weeks at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in the   United States , making it the first Billboard Alternative Songs number-one single to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009 .
the सोंग थी widely praised by आलोचकों , और it रै महरूम licensed लिये उपयोग in a चौड़ी दायरा of लोकप्रिय मीडिया चूंकि इसके रिलीज .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' received a Grammy Award nomination for  बेहतरीन पॉप duo/group प्रदर्शन  .
The State Fair of West Virginia is an  सालाना राज्य मेला लिये  West Virginia .
it is आयोजित annually in mid-august on the राज्य fairgrounds in fairlea , निकट lewisburg , वेस्ट वर्जिनिया in the southeastern भाग of the  state .
the राज्य fairgrounds consists of a विशाल खोलें फ़ील्ड लिये carnivals और प्रदर्शनियों , a घोड़ा track , grandstands , और अनेक प्रदर्शनी  buildings .
Free parking is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds and , until 2006 , free camping was also  उपलब्धियाँ in a विशाल फ़ील्ड साथ running-water  toilets and showers , but no hookups .
Campers are now  चार्ज  a small fee .
The White House , the president 's official   residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution , the President of the United States is the head of state and head of government   of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest  political office in the  United States by influence and recognition .
The president is also  the  commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to award  an absolute majority of  votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951 , no person may be elected President more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a term  to  which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from office of an incumbent  अध्यक्ष  , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35 years of  आयु  and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were  sworn  into office as president following the ratification of the United States Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
लिये अमरीकी नेताओ पहले इस अनुसमर्थन , देखिए अध्यक्ष of the महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस  .
The list does not include any Acting Presidents under the   Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office ,  और 44  presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of  the individuals निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष , चार died in दफ्तर of प्राकृतिक कल्याणकारी ( विलियम हेनरी हैरिसन , zachary टेलर , वारेन G. हार्डिंग , और फ्रैंकलिन D. रूज़वेल्ट ) , चार यहूद assassinated ( अब्राहम lincoln , जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड , विलियम mckinley , और जॉन F. कैनेडी ) और एक resigned ( रिचर्ड निक्सन ) .
George Washington , the first  अध्यक्ष , थी  inaugurated in 1789 after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office  साथ 32 दिनों in 1841 , और फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional  amendment , affecting  presidents after Harry Truman , was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring  non-land-owners  from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first  निर्वाचित  after women gained voting rights in 1920 .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin   Harrison and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic  आस्था  , and the current president , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
`` Lombardi Trophy ''  redirects  here .
For the award awarded annually to the best college football lineman or linebacker , see  लोम्बार्डी  Award .
The Vince Lombardi Trophy is the  trophy  awarded each year to the winning team of the National Football League 's championship game , the Super Bowl .
The  trophy is  named in honor of legendary NFL coach Vince Lombardi .
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest people  in the world in ordinal  rank , such as oldest person or oldest man .
in ये टेबल , a supercentenarian is माना 'verified ' if उसके or उसके अर्जी रै महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically सौदे in आयु शोध , ऐसे as the जराविद्या शोध  Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
the  longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is that of Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ) , who died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She met Vincent van Gogh when she was  12  or 13 .
This led to news media attention  in 1985  , after Calment turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age , beyond any reasonable question  , in the  records of her native city , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced  than लिये  any other supercentenarian ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is  कि of jiroemon किमुरा , जो फिलहाल जीवनदान  in Japan and is age as of .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States , on 17 December 2012 , Kimura , born 19 April 1897 , is the oldest living person in the  संसार जिनकी  age can be documented .
He has also been the oldest living  man चूंकि  the death of 114-year old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011 .
Since  the मौत of 115-year  old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013 , the oldest living woman has been -year-old Misao Okawa , also from Japan , born on 5 March 1898 .
The People 's Court is an American arbitration-based reality court show , currently  presided over by retired  Florida State Circuit Court Judge Marilyn Milian , in which small claims disputes are handled .
The People 's Court is the first court show to use binding  मध्यस्थता , introducing  the format into the genre in 1981 .
The system has been duplicated  by सबसे of  the show 's successors in the judicial genre .
Moreover , The People 's Court is the first popular , long-running reality in the judicial   genre .
It was  preceded  only by a few short-lived realities in the genre ; these short-lived predecessors were only loosely related to judicial proceedings , except for one : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings .
Prior to The People 's Court , the vast majority of TV courtroom shows used actors , and recreated or fictional cases ( as  किया रेडियो पहले  that ) .
Among examples of these types  of  court shows include Famous Jury Trials and Your Witness .
The People 's Court has had two contrasting   lives .
The show 's first life was presided over solely by former Los Angeles County  श्रेष्ठ  Court Judge Joseph Wapner .
His tenure lasted from the show 's debut on September 14 , 1981 , until May 21 , 1993 , when the show was cancelled  due to  low ratings .
This left the show with a total of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes and  12  seasons .
The show was   taped in Los Angeles during its first life .
After  होने  cancelled , reruns aired until September 9 , 1994 .
On September 8 , 1997 , after being out  of  production for four years , The People 's Court was revived for a second life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program .
Former lawyer and Mayor of New York Ed Koch was chosen as arbiter , which he maintained for 2 seasons from  the 1997–98 ऋतु  through the 1998–99 season ( the present life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ) .
By the 1999–00 season , husband of Judith  sheindlin ( जो  presides over Judge Judy ) and former New York State Supreme Court Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch .
Sheindlin lasted one and a half seasons as he was replaced towards the end of the 2000–01 season ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th )   .
Beginning in spring 2001 , Florida  न्यायधीश  Marilyn Milian took over The People 's Court and has presided over the show ever since .
Once Milian completes the 2012–13 season , she will have served as longest arbiter over the series with 12  और a हाफ  seasons .
As of the present , however , her years on the program tie Wapner at  12 सीज़न  .
In the 2009-10 television season , The People 's Courts 2nd/present  जीवन outlasted  its first when it reached 13 seasons .
While the show taped in New York City for the first 15 seasons of its second life , it  अभी टेपों in stamford ,  Connecticut as of the 2012-13 season .
On September 3 , 2012 , The People 's Court 's 2nd/present life entered its  16th ऋतु  ( 28th overall season ) .
With 28 total seasons , The People 's Court  बाँधने as the 2nd longest-running courtroom कार्यक्रम पीछे  the ongoing Divorce Court at 33 seasons ( from its 3 combined lives ) .
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho : Wo'tééneihí ' ) is a state in the  Western  United States .
It became   the 45th state admitted to the Union on January 4 , 1896 .
Utah  is the 13th-largest  , the 34th-most populous , and the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States .
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the Wasatch Front , centering on Salt Lake City , leaving vast expanses of the state nearly uninhabited and making the population the sixth most urbanized in the U.S. Utah is bordered by Colorado on the east , Wyoming on the northeast , Idaho on the north ,  एरिज़ोना on  the south , and Nevada on the west .
It also  छू a  corner of New Mexico on the southeast .
Utah  is  the most religiously homogeneous state in the Union .
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints  or LDS ( Mormons ) , which greatly  influences Utah culture and daily life .
The world headquarters of The Church of Jesus Christ of  latter-day  Saints ( LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's state capital .
the राज्य is  a center of transportation , education , information technology and research , government services , mining , and a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation .
According to the U.S. Census Bureau  's  population estimates , Utah is the fifth fastest-growing state in the United States as of 2012 .
St. George , was the fastest–growing metropolitan area in the United  राज्य  from 2000 to 2005 .
A 2012 Gallup  नेशनल सर्वेक्षण मिला यूटा overall to be the `` बेहतरीन राज्य to सजीव in '' आधारित on 13 forward-looking माप सहित विभिन्न आर्थिक , जीवनशैली , और health-related आउटलुक मेट्रिक्स .
Coldwater is a small town in  टेट  County , Mississippi .
It is in the Memphis  महानगर  Area .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 1,674 at the 2000 census .
The hard palate is a thin horizontal bony plate of the skull , located   in the roof of the mouth .
It spans the arch formed by the   upper teeth .
It is formed by the  palatine प्रक्रम  of the maxilla and horizontal plate of palatine bone .
It forms a partition   between the nasal passages and the mouth .
Also on the anterior portion of the roof of the hard palate is the Rugae which are   the irregular ridges in the mucous membrane that help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx .
This partition is  जारी  deeper into the mouth by a fleshy extension called the soft palate .
Complete set of scrolls , constituting the  संपूर्ण tanakh  .
The Tanakh ( , or ; also Tenakh , Tenak , Tanach  )  is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
the tanakh  is also known as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra .
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah (  `` Teaching '' , also known  as the Five Books of Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra '' (  מקרא  ) , meaning `` that which is read '' , is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh .
The books of  the tanakh यहूद  relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation , called the Oral Torah .
Sobriety checkpoint in   Germany
Driving under the influence ( DUI ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI ) , drunken driving , drunk driving , drink driving , operating under the influence , drinking and driving , or impaired driving is the crime of driving a motor vehicle with blood levels of alcohol in excess of a legal  सीमा ( `` रक्त दारू सामग्री  '' , or `` BAC '' ) .
Similar regulations cover driving or operating certain types of machinery while affected by drinking alcohol or taking other drugs ,  सहित  , but not limited to prescription drugs .
This is a  दण्ड  offense in most nations .
convictions do  not necessarily involve actual driving of the vehicle .
In most jurisdictions a measurement such as a blood alcohol content ( BAC ) in excess of a specific threshold level , such as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines the offense , with no need  to prove  impairment or being under the influence of alcohol .
In some jurisdictions , there is an aggravated category of the offense at a higher level e.g  . 0.12  % .
In most countries , anyone who is convicted of injuring or killing someone while under the influence of alcohol or drugs can be heavily fined , as in France , in addition to being given  a lengthy  prison sentence .
Some jobs have their own rules and BAC limits , for example commercial pilot , and the Federal Railroad  प्रशासन in the संयुक्त राज्य  has a 0.04 % limit for train crew .
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; for example , the state of California has a 0.08 % BAC limit ,  जिससे  is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a commercial driver 's license .
The California BAC limit is 0.01 % for those younger than 21 years of age and those on probation for a previous DUI  conviction  .
Some large corporations have their own rules ; Union Pacific Railroad has their own BAC limit of 0.02 % that , if violated during a random test or a for-cause test — for example , after a traffic accident —  can परिणाम in  termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire .
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada have adopted truth in sentencing laws that enforce strict guidelines on sentencing ,  differing इससे पिछला अभ्यास  where prison time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued .
Some jurisdictions have judicial guidelines requiring a mandatory minimum  वाक्य  .
Penalties for DUI charges range from expensive fees to forfetiruree of  your  license plates and in some serious circumstances , your vehicle .
A  नशे ड्राइविंग  simulator in Montréal , Canada
The specific criminal offense may  be पुकारा , depending on the क्षेत्राधिकार , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence [ of दारू or अन्य दवाएँ ] ( dui ) , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत तीव्र influence ( duii ) , ड्राइविंग जबकि intoxicated ( dwi ) , ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत the influence ( oui ) ऑपरेटिंग जबकि intoxicated ( owi ) , ऑपरेटिंग a मोटर गाडी जबकि intoxicated ( omvi ) , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the संयुक्त influence of दारू and/or अन्य दवाएँ , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence प्रति se or नशे in चार्ज [ of a गाडी ] .
Many such laws apply also to  motorcycling  , boating , piloting aircraft , use of motile farm equipment such as tractors and combines , riding horses or driving a horse-drawn vehicle , or bicycling , possibly with different BAC level than driving .
In some jurisdictions there are separate  आरोप depending on the गाडी प्रयुक्त , ऐसे as  BWI ( bicycling while intoxicated ) , which may carry a lighter sentence .
In the United  राज्य , लोकल विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसियों बना 1,467,300 रखवाले देशभर लिये ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत the influence of दारू in 1996 , compared to 1.9 लाख ऐसे रखवाले दौरान the शिखर साल in 1983 .
In 1997 an estimated 513,200 DWI offenders were in prison or jail , down from 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in  1986  .
Officers from US Customs and Border  सुरक्षा  boarding a ship
Law enforcement in the United States is one of three major components of the criminal justice system of the United States  ,  along with courts and corrections .
Although there exists an   inherent interrelatedness between the different groups that make up the criminal justice system based on their crime deterrence purpose , each component operates independently from one another .
However , the judiciary is vested with the power to make legal determinations regarding the  conduct  of the other two components .
Apart from maintaining order and service functions ,  the purpose  of policing is the investigation of suspected criminal activity and the referral of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts .
विधि प्रवर्तन , to varying डिग्री at अलग स्तर of सरकारी और in अलग एजेंसियों , is भी commonly चार्ज साथ the जिम्मेदारियों of deterring दण्ड कार्यकलाप और of preventing the कामयाब आयोग of अपराधों in प्रगति ; the सेवा और प्रवर्तन of वारंट , writs और अन्य आदेश of the न्यायालयों  .
Law enforcement agencies are also involved in providing first response to emergencies and other threats to public safety ; the protection of certain public facilities and infrastructure ; the maintenance  of  public order ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ) .
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born June 28 , 1968 ) , best known under the  स्टेज  name Chayanne , is a Puerto Rican Latin pop singer and actor .
As a solo artist , Chayanne has released 21 solo albums and sold  over 15 लाख  albums worldwide .
`` World War Hulk '' is a  कॉमिक किताब क्रॉसओवर कथानक  that ran through a self titled limited series and various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007 , featuring the Hulk .
The series consists of five main issues titled World War Hulk , with Greg Pak as writer and John Romita , Jr. as penciller , and three other  सीमित श्रेणी : संसार युद्ध हल्क : सामने  Line , World War Hulk : Gamma Corps , and World War Hulk : X-Men .
It  भी  ran through several other Marvel comics series .
The  प्लाट is the culmination  of a series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into space by the Illuminati and a life model decoy of Nick Fury , the Hulk 's subsequent exile seen in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati .
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert Morrison ; May 26 , 1907 – June 11 , 1979 ) , better known by his stage name John Wayne , was an American film actor , director and  निर्माता  .
An Academy Award -winner , Wayne was among the top box office  draws लिये  three decades , and was named the all-time top money-making star .
An enduring American icon , he epitomized rugged   masculinity and is famous for his demeanor , including his distinctive calm voice , walk , and height .
Wayne was born in  winterset , आयोवा लकिन  his family relocated to the greater Los Angeles area when he was four years old .
He found work at local film studios when he lost his football scholarship to USC as a result of a  bodysurfing  accident .
Initially working for the Fox Film Corporation , he mostly  appeared  in small bit parts .
His first leading role came in the widescreen epic The Big Trail ( 1930 ) , which led to leading roles  in numerous  films throughout the 1930s , many of them in the western genre .
His career rose to  further हाइट्स in  1939 , with John Ford 's Stagecoach making him an instant superstar .
Wayne would go on to star in 142 pictures , primarily typecast in  पश्चिमी films  .
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ) , which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen O'Hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ) , in which he plays a Civil War veteran who seeks out his abducted niece  ; रिओ ब्रावो ( 1959 ) , playing a शेरिफ साथ डीन मार्टिन ; सच्चा grit ( 1969 ) ,  playing a humorous U.S . Marshal who sets out to avenge a man 's death in the role that won Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ) , his final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer .
Wayne moved to Orange County , California in the 1960s , and was a prominent Republican in Hollywood ,   supporting anti-communist positions .
He died  of  stomach cancer in 1979 .
In June 1999 , the American Film Institute named Wayne 13th among the Greatest  पुरूष स्क्रीन महापुरूष  of All Time .
Galileo Galilei ( ; 15 February 1564 – 8 January 1642 ) , was an Italian physicist , mathematician , astronomer , and philosopher who  played a  major role in the Scientific Revolution .
His  उपलब्धियाँ  include improvements to the telescope and consequent astronomical observations and support for Copernicanism .
Galileo has been called the `` father of  आधुनिक observational  astronomy `` , the `` father of modern physics `` , the `` father of science '' , and `` the Father of Modern Science '' .
His contributions to observational astronomy include the telescopic confirmation of the phases of Venus , the discovery of the four largest satellites of Jupiter ( named the Galilean  moons in  his honour ) , and the observation and analysis of sunspots .
Galileo  भी  worked in applied science and technology , inventing an improved military compass and other instruments .
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial within his lifetime , when most subscribed to either  geocentrism or the tychonic  system .
He met with opposition from astronomers , who doubted heliocentrism due to the absence of an observed  तारकीय लंबन  .
The matter was  investigated by the रोमन inquisition in 1615 , और वे concluded कि it could be समर्थित as तभी a सम्भावना , नहीं an स्थापित फैक्ट .
Galileo later defended his  दृश्य in  Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems , which appeared to attack Pope Urban VIII and thus alienated him and the Jesuits , who had both supported Galileo up until this point .
He was tried by the Inquisition , found `` vehemently suspect of heresy '' , forced to recant  , and spent the  rest of his life under house arrest .
it  was while Galileo was under house arrest that he wrote one of his finest works , Two New Sciences , in which he summarised the work he had done some forty years earlier , on the two sciences now called kinematics and strength of materials .
55   '' LG OLED TV showcased at CES 2012
Prototype OLED  lighting  panel developed by Lumiotec
Demonstration of  a  flexible OLED device
An OLED ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode ( LED ) in which  the emissive  electroluminescent layer is a film of organic compound which emits light in response to an electric current .
This layer of organic semiconductor is situated between two  electrodes  .
Generally , at least one of these electrodes is  पारदर्शी  .
OLEDs are used to create digital displays in devices such as television screens ,  कंप्यूटर मॉनीटर , पोर्टेबल  systems such as mobile phones , handheld games consoles and PDAs .
A major area of research is the development   of white OLED devices for use in solid-state lighting applications .
There are two main families of OLEDs  : those  based on small molecules and those employing polymers .
Adding mobile ions to an OLED creates a light-emitting   electrochemical cell or LEC , which has a slightly different mode of operation .
oled प्रदर्शक can उपयोग either passive-matrix ( pmoled ) or active-matrix संबोधित योजनाएं .
Active-matrix OLEDs ( AMOLED ) require a thin-film transistor backplane to switch each individual pixel on or off , but allow for higher resolution and larger   display sizes .
An OLED display works without a  backlight  .
Thus , it can display deep black levels and can be thinner and lighter than a liquid crystal display  ( एलसीडी ) .
In low ambient light conditions such as a dark room an OLED screen can achieve a higher contrast ratio than an LCD , whether the  LCD  uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight .
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal , Canada , showing its French facade ( English reverse ) and the French term lait de poule ( literally  ,  `` hen 's milk '' )
Eggnog , or egg nog , is a sweetened dairy -based beverage traditionally made  साथ  milk and/or cream , sugar , and whipped eggs ( which gives it a frothy texture ) .
Brandy , rum ,  व्हिस्की  , bourbon , vodka , or a combination of liquors are often added .
The finished serving is often garnished with a sprinkling of ground cinnamon  or जायफल  .
It was also known as the egg milk  पंच  .
eggnog  is a popular drink throughout the United States and Canada , and is usually associated with Christmas .
Eggnog may  be  added as a flavoring to food or drinks such as coffee and tea .
Eggnog as a custard can also be used as an ice  मलाई  base .
A  pasty ( , ) , ( sometimes ज्ञात in ब्रिटेन as  a Cornish pasty , and in the United States as a pastie or British pasty ) is a baked pastry , a traditional variety of which is particularly associated with Cornwall , the westernmost county in England .
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of meat and vegetables ,  without  meat in vegetarian versions , on a flat pastry circle and folding it to wrap the filling , crimping the edge to form a seal .
After baking , the   result is a raised semicircular comestible .
The traditional Cornish pasty , which has Protected Geographical Indication ( PGI ) status in Europe , is filled with beef , sliced or diced potato , swede ( also known as a  पीला शलजम or rutabaga  – referred to in Cornwall as turnip ) and onion , seasoned with salt and pepper , and is baked .
Today , the pasty is the food most associated with Cornwall , it is regarded as the national dish , and it accounts for  6 % of the cornish खाना अर्थव्यवस्था  .
Pasties with many different fillings are made ; some  दुकानें specialise  in selling all sorts of pasties .
The  origins  of the pasty are unclear , though there are many references to them throughout historical documents and fiction .
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the spread of Cornish miners , and variations can be found in Australia , the United  राज्य , मैक्सिको  and elsewhere .
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) is one of three major parts of the autonomic nervous system : the others being the enteric and parasympathetic  प्रणालियों .
Its general action is to mobilize the  body 's  nervous system fight-or-flight response .
It is , however , constantly  क्रियाशील  at a basic level to maintain homeostasis .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable  डिवाइस  , such as mobile phones , digital cameras , GPS navigation devices , and tablet computers .
The Secure Digital standard is maintained by the SD Card Association  (  SDA ) .
sd technologies have महरूम implemented in अधिक than 400 ब्रांड्स आरपार दर्जनों of उत्पाद श्रेणी और अधिक than 8,000 मॉडल .
The Secure Digital format includes four card families available in three  अलग रूप  factors .
the चार परिवारों हैं the असली standard-capacity ( sdsc ) , the high-capacity ( sdhc ) , the extended-capacity ( sdxc ) , और the sdio , जिससे combines input/output कृत्यों साथ आंकड़ा  storage .
The three form factors are the original size   , the `` mini '' size , and the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ) .
There are many combinations of form factors and device  परिवारों  .
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a smaller card in a host device built to hold a  larger  card .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards , but this article explains several factors that can  prevent  the use of a newer SD card:
a नए कार्ड may प्रस्ताव वृहद क्षमता than the मेजबान यंत्र can हैंडल  .
A newer card may use a file system the host  यंत्र can  not navigate .
Use of an SDIO card requires the host device be designed for the  input/output कृत्यों  the card provides .
the संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला starting साथ the sdhc परिवार  .
Some vendors produced SDSC  ताश  above 1 GB before the SDA had standardized a method of doing so .
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with its  विशेषताएँ  and assure users of compatibility .
The following is a List of critics of the  नई सौदे  .
Daniel Lawrence  Whitney (  born February 17 , 1963 ) best known by his stage name and character Larry the Cable Guy , is an American stand-up comedian , actor , country music artist , voice actor , and former radio personality .
He was one of the members of the Blue Collar  कॉमेडी  Tour , a comedy troupe which included Bill Engvall , Ron White , and Jeff Foxworthy ( with whom he has starred on Blue Collar TV ) .
Whitney has released seven comedy albums , of which three have been certified  सुनहरा by the riaa लिये शिपमेंट  of 500,000 copies .
In addition , he has starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related  movies , as well  as in the films Larry the Cable Guy : Health Inspector , Delta Farce , and Witless Protection , as well as voicing Mater in the Cars franchise .
Whitney 's catchphrase : `` Git-R-Done ! '' is also  the  title of his book .
On January 26 , 2010 , the TV channel History announced that it was ordering  a श्रेणी अभिनीत व्हिटनी पुकारा  Only in America with Larry the Cable Guy , in which he would explore the country and immerse himself in different lifestyles , jobs , and hobbies .
The first episode of the series aired on  फ़रवरी  8 , 2011 .
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble  secosteroids  responsible for intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate .
In humans , the most important related compounds of vitamin D are vitamin D2 and vitamin D3   .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and ergocalciferol ( vitamin D2 ) are unique as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the  diet  and/or supplements .
The body can   also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin , it is not actually   an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense , as it can be synthesized in adequate amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight .
( Cats and dogs  can not  synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive it in their diet . )
An  सशुल्क  chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only scientifically called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from their diet .
however , as साथ अन्य यौगिकों commonly पुकारा विटामिन , विटामिन d थी खोजा in an प्रयत्न to ढूँढें the dietary पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी , namely , rickets , the बाल्यकाल रूप of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like other compounds called vitamins , in the developed world vitamin  D  is added to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid disease due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis  इससे एक्सपोज़र  to sunlight as well as intake from the diet , and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the  संश्लेषण  of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but , because of uncertainty about the cancer risk from sunlight , no recommendations are issued by the Institute of Medicine , USA , for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference Intakes for vitamin D  assume कि no संश्लेषण  occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet , although that will rarely occur in practice .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and  which is  the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol , the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood , regulating the   concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol  is भी परिवर्तित  to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for other purposes , such as the proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or rickets , the evidence for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is  असंगत  .
The best evidence of benefit  is लिये अस्थि स्वास्थ्य  and a decrease in mortality in elderly women .
Standard form of   the periodic table .
The colors represent different categories of elements explained   below .
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements , organized on the basis of their atomic numbers , electron configurations , and recurring chemical   properties .
तत्व  are presented in order of increasing atomic number ( number of protons ) .
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main body of  तत्व , positioned  above a smaller double row of elements .
the तालिका can भी be deconstructed into चार आयताकार ब्लॉक : the s-block to the बाएँ , the p-block to the सही , the d-block in the मध्य , और the f-block  below that .
The rows of the  table  are called periods ; the columns of the s- , d- , and p-blocks are called groups , with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new , yet to be discovered  or synthesized ,  elements .
As a result , a periodic table—whether in the standard form or some other variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing  रासायनिक  behavior , and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
Although precursors exist ,  dmitri mendeleev  is generally credited with the publication , in 1869 , of the first widely recognized periodic table .
He developed his table to  illustrate आवधिक  trends in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that  होता be अपेक्षित  to fill gaps in this table .
Most of his predictions were proved  सही जब the तत्व  in question were subsequently discovered .
Mendeleev 's periodic table has since been expanded and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new elements and the  विकास of  new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior .
All elements  इससे परमाणु  numbers 1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized .
The  तत्व इससे 1 to 98 ( californium  ) have been found to exist naturally , although some are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories .
The elements after 98 have only  महरूम synthesized  in laboratories .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued , with the question of how the periodic  table may need to be  modified to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic radionuclides of naturally  occurring  elements have also been produced in laboratories .
Minimum wage by U.S. state and U.S. territory ( American Samoa , Guam , Puerto Rico , Virgin Islands ) , as of Jan.  1 ,  2013 .
In the United States , workers are generally entitled to be paid no less than the  statutory  minimum wage .
The federal government mandates a nationwide minimum  मजदूरी स्तर of $ 7.25 प्रति घंटा  , while some states and municipalities have set minimum wage levels higher than the federal level , with the highest state minimum wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013 .
Among those paid by the hour in 2012 , 1.6 million were reported  as  earning exactly the prevailing federal minimum wage .
About 2.0 million were reported as earning wages below the  न्यूनतम  .
साथ , ये 3.6 लाख  workers with wages at or below the minimum made up 4.7 percent of all hourly-paid workers .
A selection of Bourbons and Tennessee whiskeys offered  at a liquor  store in Decatur , Georgia
Evan Williams  bourbon  whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a type of American  whiskey – a barrel-aged  distilled spirit made primarily from corn .
The name of the spirit derives from its historical association with an area known as Old Bourbon , around what is now Bourbon County , Kentucky ( which , in turn , was named after the French House of Bourbon royal   family ) .
It has been produced since the  18th सदी .
While it may be made anywhere  in  the United States , it is strongly associated with the American South in general , and Kentucky in particular .
The Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is  a half-length पोर्ट्रेट of a स्त्री by the इतालवी  artist Leonardo da Vinci , which has been acclaimed as `` the best known , the most visited , the most written about , the most sung about , the most parodied work of art in the world . ''
The painting , thought to be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini , the wife of Francesco del Giocondo , is in  oil on a  poplar panel , and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506 .
It was acquired   by King Francis I of France and is now the property of the French Republic , on permanent display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797 .
The ambiguity of the subject 's expression , which is frequently described as enigmatic , the monumentality of the composition , the subtle modeling of forms and the atmospheric illusionism were  novel qualities  that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work .
Robert Allen Palmer ( 19  जनवरी 1949 –  26 September 2003 ) , was an English singer-songwriter and musician .
He was known for his distinctive voice and the eclectic mix of musical styles  on  his albums , combining soul , jazz , rock , pop , reggae and blues .
He found success both in his solo career and in the musical act The  शक्ति स्टेशन , और  had Top 10 songs in both the UK and the US .
His iconic music videos by Terence Donovan for the hits `` Addicted to Love `` and `` Simply Irresistible `` featured identically dressed dancing women with pale faces , dark eye makeup and bright red  लिपस्टिक , जिससे  resembled the women in the art of Patrick Nagel , an artist popular in the 1980s .
Sharp-suited , his involvement in the music industry commenced in the 1960s , covered five decades  और शामिल  a spell with Vinegar Joe .
Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career , including two Grammy Awards for Best Male  Rock Vocal  Performance , an MTV Video Music Award , and was twice nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male .
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA ) is a computed tomography  तकनीक  used to visualize arterial and venous vessels throughout the body .
This ranges from arteries  सेवारत  the brain to those bringing blood to the lungs , kidneys , arms and legs .
The  champs-élysées सजा  with flags for Bastille Day
Horseman of the French   Republican Guard during the 2007 military parade on the Champs-Élysées .
Prise de la Bastille by  jean-pierre-louis-laurent  Houel
Bastille Day is the name given in English-speaking countries to the French National Day ,  जिससे is मनाये on the 14th of  July each year .
In France , it is formally called La Fête Nationale ( ; The National Celebration ) and commonly Le quatorze juillet ( ;  the fourteenth  of July ) .
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération , held on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ; the anniversary of the storming of the Bastille fortress-prison was seen as a symbol of the uprising of the modern nation , and of the reconciliation of all the French inside the  संवैधानिक साम्राज्य जिससे preceded the पहला गणतंत्र , दौरान the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति  .
festivities  and official ceremonies are held all over France .
The oldest and largest regular military parade in Europe is held on the morning of 14 July , on the Champs-Élysées avenue in Paris in front of the President of the Republic , French  officials  and foreign guests .
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ) , commonly called the United States ( US or U.S. ) or America , is a federal republic consisting of fifty  राज्य और a  federal district .
The lower  forty-eight  contiguous states and the federal district of Washington , D.C. are in central North America between Canada and Mexico .
The state of Alaska is west of Canada and east of Russia across the Bering Strait , and the state of  हवाई  is in the mid-North Pacific .
The country also has five  populated and nine  unpopulated territories in the Pacific and the Caribbean .
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 million km2 )  और साथ around  315 million people , the United States is the third- or fourth-largest country by total area and the third-largest by both land area and population .
It is one of the world 's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations , the product of large-scale immigration from many   countries .
The geography and climate of the  u.S. is भी अत्यधिक विविध  , with deserts , plains , forests , and mountains that are home to a wide variety of species .
Paleoindians  migrated इससे  Asia to what is now the United States mainland around 15,000 years ago .
After 1500 , Old World diseases introduced by Europeans  greatly घटाया उनके populations  .
European colonization began around 1600 and  आए ज़्यादातर  from England .
The United States emerged from thirteen British colonies located along the Atlantic   seaboard .
Disputes between Great   Britain and the American colonies led to the American Revolution .
On July 4 , 1776 , delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously issued   the Declaration of Independence , which established the United States of America .
The American Revolutionary War , which ended with the recognition of independence of the United States from the Kingdom of  Great Britain  , was the first successful war of independence against a European colonial empire .
The current Constitution was adopted on September 17 , 1787 ; twenty-seven Amendments have  since been  added to the Constitution .
The first ten amendments , collectively named the Bill of Rights , were ratified in 1791 and guarantee many   fundamental civil rights and freedoms .
Driven by the doctrine of manifest destiny , the United States embarked  on a  vigorous expansion across North America throughout the 19th century .
This involved displacing native tribes ,  acquiring नई territories  , and gradually admitting new states .
the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध ended legalized गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
By the end of the nineteenth century  , the  United States extended into the Pacific Ocean , and its economy was the world 's largest .
The Spanish–American War and confirmed the country 's status  as  a global military power .
The United  राज्य उभरा इससे  as a global superpower , the first country with nuclear weapons , and a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council .
The end of the Cold War and the dissolution of  the सोवियत संघ  left the United States as the sole superpower .
The United States is a developed  country and  has the world 's largest national economy , with an estimated 2012 GDP of $ 15.6 trillion 19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power parity , as of 2011 .
The per capita GDP of the  u.S.  was the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010 , although America 's wealth inequality was also ranked highest among OECD countries by the World Bank .
The economy is fueled by an abundance of natural resources , a well-developed infrastructure , and high productivity ;  and while its  economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers .
The country accounts for 39 % of global military spending , and is a leading economic , political  , and cultural force in the  world , as well as a leader in scientific research and technological innovation .
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination tournament played each spring in the United States , currently featuring 68 college  बास्केट  teams , to determine the national championship of the major college basketball teams .
The tournament , organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) ,  थी निर्मित  during 1939 by the National Association of Basketball Coaches , and was the idea of Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen .
Played mostly during March , it is known informally as March Madness or the Big Dance , and has become one of the most  प्रसिद्ध सालाना sporting  events in the United States .
The NCAA  has credited Bob  Walsh of the Seattle Organizing Committee for starting the March Madness celebration during 1984 .
the टूर्नामेंट  teams include champions from 31 Division I conferences ( which receive automatic bids ) , and 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths .
ये  `` at-large '' teams are chosen by an NCAA selection committee , as detailed below .
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and organized into a single elimination `` bracket '' , which  predetermines  , when a team wins a game , which team it will face next .
प्रत्येक टोली is `` seeded '' , or क्रमित , भीतर इसके प्रदेश .
After an initial four games between eight  lower-ranked टीमों  , the tournament occurs during the course of three weekends , at pre-selected neutral sites around the United States .
Lower-ranked teams are placed in the bracket against   higher ranked teams .
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams , from a round of 64 , to a `` Sweet Sixteen '' , and for the last weekend of the Tournament a Final Four ; the Final  Four  is usually played during the first weekend of April .
These four teams , one from each region ,  then  compete in one location for the national championship .
The  टूर्नामेंट रै महरूम  at least partially televised since 1969 .
Presently , the games are reported by CBS , TBS , TNT , and truTV by the trade-name NCAA March  दीवानगी  .
Since 2011 , all  खेल  are available for viewing nationwide .
As  टेलीविज़न  coverage has grown , so too has the tournament 's popularity .
Presently , millions of Americans  `` भरण आउट a  bracket '' , predicting winners of all 67 games .
With 11 national titles , UCLA has the record  लिये the सबसे  NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles .
The University of Kentucky is second , with 8 national titles , while Indiana University and the University of North Carolina are tied for  तीसरा साथ 5 नेशनल  titles .
Duke University  बाँधने  fifth with 4 national titles .
a नमूना of सिंथेटिक मोटर आयल
सिंथेटिक आयल is a  lubricant consisting of chemical compounds that are artificially made ( synthesized ) .
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum components   rather than whole crude oil , but can also be synthesized from other raw materials .
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum when operating in extremes of temperature , because , in general , it provides superior mechanical and  रासायनिक गुण than those  found in traditional mineral oils .
Aircraft jet engines , for example , require the use   of synthetic oils , whereas aircraft piston engines do not .
Jackass is an American reality series , originally shown  on एमटीवी इससे 2000  to 2002 , featuring people performing various dangerous , crude self-injuring stunts and pranks .
The show served as a launchpad for  the टेलीविज़न  and acting careers of Bam Margera , Steve-O , and also Johnny Knoxville , who previously had only a few minor acting roles .
चूंकि 2002 , तीन बेवकूफ़ films have महरूम उत्पादित और released by एमटीवी कॉरपोरेट सहोदर सर्वोपरि तस्वीरें , continuing the मताधिकार बाद इसके चलाएं on टेलीविज़न  .
The show sparked several spin-offs including Viva La Bam  , wildboyz , homewrecker  , Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid .
The show placed # 68 on  entertainment  Weekly `` New TV Classics '' list .
Roseanne Cherrie Barr ( born November 3 , 1952 ) is an American actress , comedienne , writer   , television producer , director , and 2012 presidential nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party .
Barr began her career in stand-up comedy at clubs before gaining fame for her role in the  sitcom  Roseanne .
the दिखाएँ थी a hit और lasted नौ सीज़न , इससे 1988 to 1997 .
She won both an  एमी और a सुनहरी  Globe Award for Best Actress for her work on the show .
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic  goddess '' persona  in the eight years preceding her sitcom and wanted to do a realistic show about a strong mother who was not a victim of patriarchal consumerism .
The granddaughter  of आप्रवासियों  from Europe and Russia , Barr was the oldest of four children in a working-class Jewish Salt Lake City family ; she was also active in the LDS Church .
In 1974 , she married Bill Pentland , with whom she had three children , before divorcing in 1990 and marrying comedian Tom  अर्नाल्ड  for four years .
Controversy arose when she sang `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` off-key  at a 1990 nationally aired बेसबॉल  game , followed by grabbing her crotch and spitting .
After her sitcom ended , she launched her own talk show ,  the roseanne  Show , which aired from 1998 to 2000 .
In 2005 , she returned to stand-up comedy  साथ a संसार  tour .
In 2011 , she starred in an unscripted TV show , Roseanne 's Nuts , that lasted from  जुलाई to सितंबर of कि  year , about her life on a Hawaiian farm .
In early 2012 , Barr announced her candidacy for the  अध्यक्षीय  nomination of the Green Party .
barr खोया  the nomination to Jill Stein .
She then sought the presidential nomination of the Peace and Freedom Party , which she won  on  August 4 , 2012 .
Barr  प्राप्त 61,971 मत  in the general election , placing sixth overall .
Francesco Albani 's 17th  सदी बपतिस्मा of मसीह  is a typical depiction with the sky opening and the Holy Spirit descending as a dove .
The baptism of Jesus marks the  शुरूआत  of his public ministry .
This event is recorded in the canonical gospels of Matthew ,  चिह्नित  and Luke .
John 's gospel does not describe Jesus ' baptism , but John the Baptist does  गवाही  of the other things in .
In the New Testament , John the Baptist preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins ( ) , and  घोषित खुद  a forerunner of he that would baptize `` with the Holy Ghost and with fire '' ( ) .
In so doing he was  तैयारी  the way for Jesus .
यीशु  came to the Jordan River where he was baptized by John .
The baptismal scene includes the heavens opening , a dove-like descent of the Holy Spirit , and a voice from heaven saying , `` This is my  beloved बेटे , in जिसको i am खूब प्रसन्न  . ''
Most modern scholars view the fact that Jesus  was  baptized by John as an historical event to which a high degree of certainty can be assigned .
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as one of the two historically certain  तथ्य परिचय उसे , और  often use it as the starting points for the study of the historical Jesus .
The baptism is one of the five major milestones in the gospel narrative of the life of Jesus  , the  others being the Transfiguration , Crucifixion , Resurrection , and Ascension .
Most  ईसाई denominations  view the baptism of Jesus as an important event and a basis for the Christian rite of baptism ( see also ) .
In Eastern Christianity , Jesus '  बपतिस्मा  is commemorated on 6 January , the feast of Epiphany .
In the Roman Catholic Church , the Anglican Communion , the Lutheran Churches and some other Western   denominations , it is recalled on a day within the following week , the feast of the baptism of the Lord .
In Roman  catholicism  , the baptism of Jesus is one of the Luminous Mysteries sometimes added to the Rosary .
It is a Trinitarian  feast  in the Eastern Orthodox Churches .
Methylcobalamin  (  shown ) is a form of vitamin B12 .
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent  समाधान  in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 , also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain  और बेचैन प्रणाली ,  and for the formation of blood .
It is  एक  of the eight B vitamins .
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human body ,  विशेषकर affecting  DNA synthesis and regulation , but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither fungi , plants , nor animals are capable of  producing  vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its synthesis , although many foods are a natural source of B12 because of  बैक्टीरियल  symbiosis .
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis   .
Vitamin  B12  consists of a class of chemically related compounds ( vitamers ) , all of which have vitamin activity .
It contains the biochemically rare element  cobalt  .
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin ) , but conversion between different forms of  the विटामिन  can be accomplished in the human body .
A common   semi-synthetic form of the vitamin , cyanocobalamin , does not occur in nature , but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements , and as a food additive , because of its stability and lower production cost .
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin  ,  leaving behind the cyanide , albeit in minimal concentration .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin , and adenosylcobalamin can be found  in अधिक महंगी pharmacological  products and food supplements .
The extra utility of these   is currently debated .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from its relationship to the disease pernicious anemia , which is an autoimmune disease in  जिससे parietal कोशिकाएं of  the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic  फ़ैक्टर is निर्णायक  for the normal absorption of B12 , so a lack of intrinsic factor , as seen in pernicious anemia , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many  अन्य  subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their biochemical effects have since been elucidated .
Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 war film produced  , निर्देशित और  co-written by Stanley Kubrick .
It is an  अनुकूलन of गुस्ताव  Hasford 's 1979 novel The Short-Timers and stars Matthew Modine , Vincent D'Onofrio , R. Lee Ermey , Arliss Howard , and Adam Baldwin .
The  फिल्मी फ़ॉलो a  platoon of U.S. Marines through their training and the experiences of two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War .
The film 's title refers to the full metal jacket   bullet used by infantry riflemen .
The film received  नाजुक  acclaim .
It received an Academy Award nomination for Best  adapted पटकथा  for Kubrick , Michael Herr and Gustav Hasford .
In 2001 , the American Film Institute placed Full Metal Jacket at # 95 in their `` AFI 's 100  Years  ... 100 Thrills `` poll .
TMZ is a celebrity  न्यूज जालस्थल  that debuted on November 8 , 2005 .
It was a  सहयोग between एओएल और  Telepictures Productions , a division of Warner Bros. , until Time Warner divested AOL in 2009 .
However , it remained affiliated with AOL  न्यूज और  has the AOL News logo affixed in the upper right corner .
The name TMZ stands for the historic `` studio zone `` or 30-mile zone radius from the   intersection of West Beverly Boulevard and North La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles .
TMZ 's managing editor is Harvey Levin , a lawyer-turned-journalist  जो  was previously a legal expert for the Los Angeles television station KCBS-TV .
The  साईट  claims that it does not pay for stories or interviews ; however , Levin has admitted that TMZ does `` sometimes pay sources for leads on stories '' .
Levin has stated that  ``  everything is researched and vetted for accuracy . ''
A companion TV series , TMZ on TV  , debuted  on September 10 , 2007 .
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher film created by Kevin Williamson  ,  directed by Wes Craven and written by Ehren Kruger , starring Neve Campbell , Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette .
It was released on February 4 , 2000  as  the third installment in the Scream film series .
The events of the story are set three years after those of Scream 2 and follows Sidney Prescott ( Campbell ) who has gone into self-imposed isolation following the events of the  पिछला  two films but is drawn to Hollywood after a new Ghostface begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 '' .
Scream 3 combines the violence of the slasher genre with comedy and ``  whodunit  `` mystery while satirizing the cliché of film trilogies .
Unlike the  पिछला चीख films , वहीँ थी an increased जोर on comedic तत्व और the हिंसा और हॉरर थी घटाया in जवाब to increased पब्लिक scrutiny परिचय हिंसा in मीडिया following the columbine ऊँची स्कूल नरसंहार .
The film was the concluding chapter of the Scream series until it  was revived with  a sequel , Scream 4 , in 2011 .
Williamson provided a five-page outline for two sequels to Scream when auctioning his original script , hoping to entice  bidders साथ the संभावित of खरीदे  a franchise .
Williamson 's commitments to  other projects  meant he was unable to develop a complete script for Scream 3 and writing duties were undertaken by Ehren Kruger who discarded much of Williamson 's notes .
Craven and Marco Beltrami returned  to  direct and score the film respectively as they had with the previous two series entries .
Production was troubled with script  rewrites  , with pages sometimes only ready on the day of filming , and scheduling difficulties with the main cast .
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically worse than its preceding films , earning over $ 161 million and with many critics  claiming कि the फिल्मी  had become what Scream originally `` spoofed `` .
Despite  ऋणात्मक आलोचना the फिल्मी किया प्राप्त तारीफ़ साथ reviewers कॉलिंग it the पूर्ण समाप्त to the चीख त्रयी .
As of 2012 , the film is currently the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in North America , following Scream at  क्रमांक 1 और चीख  2 at number 2 .
The film 's soundtrack was well-received , spending fourteen weeks on the Billboard 200  और reaching a ऊँची  of # 32 .
Shoulder  impingement syndrome ,  also called painful arc syndrome , supraspinatus syndrome , swimmer 's shoulder , and thrower 's shoulder , is a clinical syndrome which occurs when the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles become irritated and inflamed as they pass through the subacromial space , the passage beneath the acromion .
This can  परिणाम in पीड़ा  , weakness and loss of movement at the shoulder .
JLA was a monthly comic book published by DC Comics from January 1997 to April 2006 featuring the  इंसाफ लीग  .
The colonial history of the United States covers the history of European   settlements from the start of colonization of America until their incorporation into the United States .
In the late 16th century , England , France , Spain and the Netherlands launched major colonization programs  in eastern North  America .
Small early attempts—such as the English Lost Colony of Roanoke —often  disappeared  ; everywhere the death rate of the first arrivals was very high .
Nevertheless   successful colonies were established .
यूरोपीय settlers आए इससे a किस्में of सोशल और धार्मिक समूह  .
No aristocrats settled permanently , but a number of adventurers ,  सैनिको  , farmers , and tradesmen arrived .
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland , the Swedes and Finns of New  स्वीडन , the अंग्रेज़ी quakers of पेन्सिलवेनिया , the अंग्रेज़ी  Puritans of New England , the English settlers of Jamestown , and the `` worthy poor '' of Georgia , came to the new continent and built colonies with distinctive social , religious , political and economic styles .
Occasionally one colony took  कंट्रोल  of another ( during wars between their European parents ) .
Only in Nova Scotia ( now part of Canada ) did the conquerors  निकाल  the previous colonists .
Instead they all lived  पक्ष  by side in peace .
There were no major civil wars among the 13   colonies , and the two chief armed rebellions ( in Virginia in 1676 and in New York in 1689–91 ) were short-lived failures .
Wars between  the फ्रेंच और  the British—the French and Indian Wars and Father Rale 's War —were recurrent , and involved French-support for Wabanaki Confederacy attacks on the frontiers .
By 1760 France was defeated  और  the British seized its colonies .
The four distinct regions were : New England , the Middle Colonies , the Chesapeake Bay   Colonies ( Upper South ) and the Lower South .
Some historians add a  पांचवां प्रदेश ,  the Frontier , which was never separately organized .
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650 , the  बहुमत of the  Native Americans living in the eastern United States had been decimated by new diseases , introduced to them decades before by explorers and sailors .
देखिए समयरेखा of औपनिवेशिक अमेरिका लिये सूची of ऐतिहासिक कार्यक्रम  .
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt ( born February 20 , 1924 ) is an American artist , author , actress , heiress , and socialite most noted as an early  डेवलपर  of designer blue jeans .
She is a  member  of the prominent Vanderbilt family of New York and the mother of CNN 's Anderson Cooper .
Greece  (  Romanization of Greek| ) , officially the Hellenic Republic ( ' ) , is a country in Southeast Europe .
according to the 2011 जनसांख्यिकी , यूनानियों 's जनसांख्यिकी is around 11 लाख .
Athens is the nation 's capital  और  largest city , its urban area also including Piraeus .
Greece is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe , Asia , the  मध्य ईस्ट  , and Africa , and has land borders with Albania , the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north , and Turkey to the northeast .
The Aegean Sea lies to the east of mainland Greece , the Ionian Sea to the west , and   the Mediterranean Sea to the south .
Greece has the 11th longest coastline in the world at in length , featuring a vast number of islands ( approximately 1,400 , of which 227 are inhabited ) , including Crete , the Dodecanese , the Cyclades  , और the आयोनियन आइलैंड्स  among others .
Eighty percent of Greece consists of mountains , of which Mount  ओलम्पस  is the highest at .
Modern Greece traces its roots to the civilization of Ancient Greece , generally considered the cradle  of  Western civilization .
As such , it is the birthplace of democracy , Western philosophy , the Olympic Games , Western literature and historiography  , political science ,  major scientific and mathematical principles , and Western drama , including both tragedy and comedy .
This legacy is partly reflected in the seventeen UNESCO World Heritage Sites located in  यूनानियों , रैंकिंग it  7th in Europe and 13th in the world .
the आधुनिक यूनानी राज्य थी स्थापित in 1830 , following the यूनानी युद्ध of स्वतंत्रता .
Greece is a founding member of the United Nations , has been a member of what is now the European Union since 1981 ( and  the eurozone since 2001 ) ,  and has been a member of NATO since 1952 .
Greece is a developed country with an advanced , high-income  economy and  very high standards of living , including the world 's 21st highest quality of life as of 2010 .
Greece 's economy is also  the largest in  the Balkans , where Greece is an important regional investor .
A prime  मध्याह्न is a मध्याह्न  , i.e . a line of longitude , at which longitude is defined to be 0° .
A prime  मध्याह्न  and its opposite in a 360°-system , the 180th meridian ( at 180° longitude ) , form a great circle .
This great circle divides the  गोला , e.g  . the Earth , into two hemispheres .
If one uses directions of East and West from a defined prime meridian ,  तब वे can be  called Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere .
Gerardus Mercator in his Atlas Cosmographicae ( 1595 ) uses a prime meridian somewhere close to 25°W , passing just to the west of Santa Maria Island  in  the Atlantic .
उसके 180th  meridian runs along the Strait of Anián ( Bering Strait )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary , unlike an equator , which is determined by the axis of rotation—and various conventions have been used or advocated in  अलग  regions and throughout history .
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born Minka Dumont Dufay ; June 24 , 1980 ) is an  अमरीकी  actress .
She is perhaps best known for her roles   in Charlie 's Angels , Friday Night Lights , and The Roommate .
R.O.B . ( Robotic Operating Buddy ) , released in Japan as the , is an accessory  लिये the निन्टेंडो  Entertainment System ( NES ) .
It was released in  जुलाई 1985  in Japan and later that year in North America .
It had a short product lifespan , with support for only two games which comprised   the `` Robot Series '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up .
R.O.B . was released with the intention of portraying  the Nintendo  Entertainment System as something novel in order to alleviate retail fears following the video game crash of 1983 .
R.O.B . was available in the Deluxe Set , a configuration for the console that included , among other things , R.O.B . and  gyromite  .
Stack-Up was purchased separately and included its own physical game  टुकड़े  .
the चलना स्वतंत्रता हाफ डालर थी a चांदी 50-cent टुकड़ा or हाफ डालर सिक्का जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य मिंट इससे 1916 to 1947 ; it थी designed by एडाल्फ A. weinman .
In 1915 , the new Mint Director , Robert W. Woolley , came to believe that he was not only allowed but required  by law to  replace coin designs that had been in use for 25 years .
He therefore began the process of replacing the Barber coinage : dimes , quarters and half dollars , all bearing similar designs by long-time Mint Engraver  चार्ल्स E. नाई , और  first struck in 1892 .
Woolley had the Commission of Fine Arts  conduct a प्रतियोगिता ,  as a result of which Weinman was selected to design the dime and half dollar .
Weinman 's design of Liberty  striding towards the सूर्य लिये the हाफ डालर proved मुश्किल to पूर्ण , और राजकोष सचिव विलियम G. mcadoo , जिनकी विभाग शामिल the मिंट , माना having नाई बनाएँ उसके अपना डिज़ाइन .
मिंट officials यहूद कामयाब in getting weinman 's डिज़ाइन into उत्पादन , हालांकि it never struck बहुत खूब , जिससे may have महरूम a फ़ैक्टर in इसके बदलना by the फ्रैंकलिन हाफ डालर शुरूआत  in 1948 .
Nevertheless , art historian Cornelius Vermeule considered the piece to be among the most  खूबसूरत  US coins .
Since 1986 , a  परिवर्धन  of Weinman 's obverse design has been used for the American Silver Eagle .
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size sport utility vehicle  ( एसयूवी ) उत्पादित  by the Japanese manufacturer Toyota and sold throughout the world from 1984 to present .
In  जापानी it थी  known as the Toyota Hilux Surf .
The original  4runner थी a  compact SUV and little more than a Toyota pickup truck with a fiberglass shell over the bed , but the model has since undergone significant independent development into a cross between a compact and a mid-size SUV .
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's Tahara plant in Tahara , Aichi , Japan , or at Hino  मोटर्स ' hamura , जापानी संयंत्र ,  and in Brazil .
Its mid-size crossover SUV counterpart is   the Toyota Highlander .
This article deals with medicine as  practiced by  trained professionals from ancient times to the present .
The ancient Egyptians had a system of medicine that was   very advanced for its time and influenced later medical traditions .
the उन्होंने और babylonians दोनो introduced the अवधारणाओं of निदान , prognosis , और चिकित्सा परिक्षा .
The Greeks went even further ,  और उन्नत  as well medical ethics .
The Hippocratic Oath , still  लिया by डॉक्टर आज  , was written in Greece in the 5th century BCE .
In the medieval era , surgical practices inherited from the ancient masters were improved and then systematized in  Rogerius 's  The Practice of Surgery .
Universities began systematic training of  physicians  around the years 1220 in Italy .
During the Renaissance , understanding of anatomy improved , and  the सूक्ष्मदर्शी  was invented .
The germ theory of disease in the 19th century led to  cures लिये अनेक  infectious diseases .
Military doctors advanced the methods of trauma  उपचार  and surgery .
Public health measures were developed especially in the 19th century as the rapid growth of cities required systematic sanitary   measures .
Advanced research  centers  opened in the early 20th century , often connected with major hospitals .
The mid-20th century  थी characterized  by new biological treatments , such as antibiotics .
These advancements , along with developments  in  chemistry , genetics , and lab technology ( such as the x-ray ) led to modern medicine .
Medicine was  heavily  professionalized in the 20th century , and new careers opened to women as nurses ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ) .
The 21st century is characterized   by very advanced research involving numerous fields of science .
the hippocratic कॉर्पस , is a संग्रहण of जल्दी चिकित्सा works इससे प्राचीन यूनानियों strongly संबद्ध साथ the प्राचीन यूनानी चिकित्सक हिपोक्रेटिस और उसके शिक्षाओं  .
Potassium is a chemical  तत्व  with symbol K ( from Neo-Latin kalium ) and atomic number 19 .
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that oxidizes rapidly in air and is very reactive with water , generating sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame   .
Because potassium and sodium  हैं  chemically very similar , their salts were not at first differentiated .
The existence of multiple elements in their salts was suspected from 1702 , and this was proven in 1807 when potassium and sodium were  individually पृथक इससे अलग  salts by electrolysis .
Potassium in nature  occurs तभी  in ionic salts .
As such , it is found dissolved in seawater ( which is 0.04 % potassium by weight ) , and is part  of many  minerals .
सबसे औद्योगिक रासायनिक अनुप्रयोग of पोटैशियम employ the अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची घुलनशीलता in जल of पोटैशियम यौगिकों , ऐसे as पोटैशियम  soaps .
Potassium metal has only a few special applications , being replaced in most   chemical reactions with sodium metal .
Potassium ions are necessary for  the  function of all living cells .
Potassium ion diffusion is a key mechanism in nerve transmission , and potassium depletion in animals ,  सहित  humans , results in various cardiac dysfunctions .
Potassium accumulates in plant cells , and thus fresh  फल और सब्जियां हैं  a good dietary source of it .
Conversely , most plants except  विशेषज्ञ halophytes  are intolerant of salt , and sodium is present in them only in low concentration .
This  resulted in पोटैशियम  first being isolated from potash , the ashes of plants , giving the element its name .
For the same reason , heavy crop production rapidly depletes soils of potassium , and agricultural fertilizers consume  95  % of global potassium chemical production .
The Singapore dollar or dollar ( sign : $ ; code : SGD ) is the official currency of  सिंगापुर  .
It is normally abbreviated with the dollar sign $ , or alternatively S $ to distinguish it from other dollar -denominated  मुद्राएँ  .
it  is divided into 100 cents .
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary Board still maintain the historic  exchangeability of उनके दो मुद्राएँ  , the Singaporean dollar and the Brunei dollar , respectively .
The dollar is accepted as `` customary tender '' in Brunei according to the Currency Interchangeability  अनुबंध  .
Likewise , the Brunei dollar is customarily  स्वीकृत  in Singapore
James Samuel Coleman ( May 12 , 1926 – March 25 , 1995 ) was an American sociologist , theorist and empirical researcher , based chiefly at  the  University of Chicago .
He was elected president of the American  समाजशास्त्रीय  Association .
Coleman studied the sociology of education , public policy ,  और थी एक of  the earliest users of the term `` social capital `` .
His Foundations of Social  सिद्धान्त  influenced sociological theory .
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961 )  और `` कोलमैन  Report '' ( Equality of Educational Opportunity , 1966 ) were two of the most heavily cited books in educational sociology .
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational theory , reshape national education  policies ,  and influenced public and scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining equality and productivity in the United States .
Superman ( from DC  कॉमिक्स  ) was the first superhero created , art by Jim Lee .
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or super hero ) is a type of stock character  possessing `` असाधारण or superhuman  powers '' and dedicated to protecting the public .
Since the debut of the prototypical superhero Superman in 1938 , stories of superheroes—ranging from brief  episodic  adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into other media .
The word itself dates to at least  1917 .
A female superhero is sometimes called a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or super  नायिका  ) .
`` SUPER HEROES '' is a trademark co-owned by DC Comics and Marvel  कॉमिक्स  .
By most definitions , characters do not strictly require actual superhuman powers to be deemed superheroes , although terms such as costumed crime fighters or masked vigilantes are sometimes used  to refer to those such as  Batman and Green Arrow without such powers who share other common superhero traits .
Such characters were generally referred to as `` mystery men '' in the so-called Golden Age of Comic Books to  फर्क  them from characters with super-powers .
Normally  , superheroes  use their powers to counter day-to-day crime while also combating threats against humanity by supervillains , their criminal counterparts .
प्रायः , एक  of these supervillains will be the superhero 's archenemy .
As well , some longrunning superheroes , such as Superman , Batman ,  spider-man  and Iron Man each has a rogues gallery of enemies .
As well , superheroes  sometimes होगा कॉम्बैट ऐसे irregular खतरे  as aliens , magical/ fantasy entities , American war enemies such as nazism or communism , and godlike or demonic creatures .
The following is a historical list of actors and primary character  भूमिकाएँ जिससे  appear on the American soap opera One Life to Live .
the shawshank मोचन  is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman .
adapted इससे the स्टीफन किंग novella रीता hayworth और shawshank मोचन , the फिल्मी tells the स्टोरी of एंडी dufresne , a बैंकर जो खर्च nearly दो दशकों in shawshank राज्य थाना लिये the हत्या of उसके बीवी और उसके प्रेमी despite उसके दावा of innocence .
During his time at the prison , he befriends a fellow inmate , Ellis  Boyd ``  Red '' Redding , and finds himself protected by the guards after the warden begins using him in his money laundering operation .
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget , the film received favorable reviews from critics ,  अनेक  award nominations , and has since enjoyed a remarkable life on cable television , VHS , DVD , and Blu-ray .
It was included  in  the American Film Institute 's 100 Years ... 100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition .
IT management is the discipline whereby all of the technology resources of a firm are managed in accordance   with its needs and priorities .
These resources may include tangible investments like computer hardware , software , data , networks and  आंकड़ा  centre facilities , as well as the staffs who are hired to maintain them .
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of  the basic  management functions , like budgeting , staffing , and organizing and controlling , along with other aspects that are unique to technology , like change management , software design , network planning , tech support etc .
The Penitentiary of New Mexico Prison Riot , which took place on February 2 and 3 , 1980 , in the state 's maximum security prison south of Santa Fe , was one of the most violent prison riots in the history of the American correctional system  : 33  inmates died and more than 200 inmates were treated for injuries .
None of the 12  officers taken  hostage were killed , but seven were treated for injuries caused by beatings and rapes .
This was the third major  riot at the  NM State Penitentiary , the first occurring on 19 July 1922 and the second on 15 June 1953 .
Author Roger  मॉरिस suggests  the death toll may have been higher , as a number of bodies were incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem .
`` Red  कार्डिनल  '' redirects here .
लिये the  plant Erythrina herbacea , see Coral Bean .
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North American bird in the genus Cardinalis ; it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal   .
It can be found in southern Canada , through the eastern  संयुक्त राज्य  from Maine to Texas and south through Mexico .
It is found in   woodlands , gardens , shrublands , and swamps .
The Northern Cardinal  is a  mid-sized songbird with a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ) .
It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the face which is black in the male and  धूसर  in the female .
The male is a vibrant red , while the  मादा  is a dull red-brown shade .
The Northern Cardinal is mainly granivorous , but also  फ़ीड्स on कीट  and fruit .
The male behaves territorially , marking out his  territory  with song .
During courtship , the male feeds seed  to  the female beak-to-beak .
A clutch of three to four eggs is laid , and two to four  चंगुल हैं  produced each year .
It was  एकबार prized as a पालतु , लकिन इसके बिक्री as पिंजरा पक्षियों is अभी बैन in the संयुक्त राज्य by the migratory बर्ड सन्धि अधिनियम of 1918 .
Surface runoff , also called nonpoint source pollution , from  a फार्म फ़ील्ड  in Iowa during a rain storm .
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers and other potential pollutants run off  unprotected  farm fields when heavy rains occur .
Topsoil is the upper , outermost layer of  मृदा  , usually the top to .
It has the highest  विशेषज्ञता  of organic matter and microorganisms and is where most of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs .
Musical cryptogram : `` Aschbeg '' set in  schoenberg  's Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19 , no . 1 , m. 5 .
Note  कि the टीप do नहीं आइये in स्पेलिंग अनुक्रम लकिन हैं सब सटा ( नहीं अलग by अन्य टीप ) .
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19 ( or Six Little Piano Pieces ) is a set of pieces for  solo piano  written by the Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg , published in 1913 .
McAfee , Inc. ( ) is an  अमरीकी वैश्विक कंप्यूटर  security software company headquartered in Santa Clara , California , and the world 's largest dedicated security technology company .
As of February 28 , 2011  ,  McAfee is a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel .
McAfee 's competitors in the antivirus industry are Avira , BitDefender , BullGuard , F-Secure , Frisk , Kaspersky , Symantec , and Trend Micro to name   a few .
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born Margherita  Lotti 1381 - May 22  , 1457 ) was an Italian Augustinian nun , widow and saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church .
रीता थी शादीशुदा at an जल्दी आयु .
The marriage  lasted लिये 18 सालो , दौरान जिससे वो is remembered लिये उसके ईसाई मान as a मॉडल बीवी और माँ जो बना प्रयत्न to बदलें उसके husband इससे उसके गाली बर्ताव .
Upon the murder of her husband by another feuding family ,  वो sought to dissuade उसके  sons from revenge .
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters , where she was known for practicing mortification of the flesh , along with the apparent  efficacy of her  prayers .
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her intercession , and is often portrayed with a bleeding wound on her forehead , which the Roman Catholic Church claims to have been a partial  stigmata  .
The Roman Catholic Church , under the pontificate of Pope Leo XIII  officially canonized  Rita on May 24 , 1900 , while her feast day is celebrated every May 22 .
In many pious   Catholic countries , Rita is known to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning women .
North America   is a continent wholly within the Northern Hemisphere and almost wholly within the Western Hemisphere .
it is भी माना a उत्तरी उपमहाद्वीप of the americas  .
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean , to the east by the Atlantic Ocean , to the west and south by the  Pacific Ocean , and to the southeast by  South America and the Caribbean Sea .
North America covers an area of about 24,709,000 square kilometers ( 9,540,000 square miles ) , about  4.8 % of the  planet 's surface or about 16.5 % of its land area .
As of July 2008 , its population was estimated at nearly 529 million people across 23 independent states ,  representing  about 7.5 % of the human population .
North America is the third-largest  continent in  area , following Asia and Africa , and the fourth in population after Asia , Africa , and Europe .
The first people to live in North America were Paleoindians who began to arrive during the last  glacial  period by crossing the Bering land bridge .
They   differentiated into a number of diverse cultures and communities across the continent .
The largest and most advanced Pre-Columbian civilizations in North America were the Aztecs in what is now Mexico and  the  Mayans in Central America .
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th and 17th centuries , wiping out large numbers  of the देशी populations  and beginning an era of European dominance .
jermaine lamarr कोल ( born जनवरी 28 , 1985 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम J. कोल , is an अमरीकी hip-hop रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार और रिकार्ड निर्माता इससे fayetteville , उत्तर कैरोलिना  .
In 2009 , he became the first artist to sign  to  Jay-Z 's Roc Nation label .
His long-awaited debut album , entitled Cole World : The Sideline Story , was released on September 27  ,  2011 .
The album debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 , Top R & B Albums and Top  Rap Albums chart ,  selling more than 218,000 in its first week .
He received a nomination for Best New Artist at  the  54th Grammy Awards .
The two main characters of the  श्रेणी , ratchet  ( right ) and Clank ( left ) .
Ratchet & Clank is a  श्रेणी  of platform video games .
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many different PlayStation  consoles , such as  PlayStation 2 and PlayStation 3 with the exclusion of Size Matters and Secret Agent Clank , which were developed by High Impact Games for the PlayStation Portable .
Every game in the series has been released for every console  ,  as the IP is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment .
An animated feature film adaptation produced by Rainmaker Entertainment  and  Blockade Entertainment is scheduled for a theatrical release sometime in 2015 .
The games take place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an animalistic human-like character known as a Lombax , who is a mechanic ) and Clank ( a  diminutive , sentient रोबोट ) as वे  travel through the universe , saving it from evil forces on a regular basis .
The series is noted for the inclusion of many exotic and unique , over the top weapons and devices , a concept that  insomniac खेल भी विस्तारित  into their other games .
A will or testament is a  विधिक  declaration by which a person , the testator , names one or more persons to manage his/her estate and provides for the transfer of his property at death .
For the  devolution  of property not disposed of by will , see inheritance and intestacy .
In the strictest sense , a `` will '' has historically been limited to real property while `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of personal property ( thus giving rise to the popular title of the document as `` Last Will and Testament  '' ) ,  though this distinction is seldom observed today .
A will may also create a testamentary trust that is effective only after the death of the  testator  .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in  स्पेन सुविधाएँ 15  hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the sun , has been harnessed by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving  technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal electricity , solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis , which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the  संसार अभी चेहरों  .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture ,  बदलें और वितरित सौर  energy .
Active solar techniques  शामिल the उपयोग  of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive  सौर तकनीकों शामिल orienting  a building to the Sun , selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the development of affordable ,  inexhaustible and  clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource , enhance sustainability ,  reduce प्रदूषण , निम्नतर the लागत of mitigating  climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These advantages are global  .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered  सीखना निवेश  ; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ) , known to Roman Catholics as Saint Thomas More since 1935 , was an English lawyer , social  पारस  , author , statesman , and noted Renaissance humanist .
He was  an  important councillor to Henry VIII of England and was Lord Chancellor from October 1529 to 16 May 1532 .
He was canonized by  पोप  Pius XI in 1935 as one of the early martyrs of the schism that separated the Church of England from Rome in the 16th century .
In 2000 , Pope  जॉन पॉल ii घोषित  him patron of Catholic statesmen and politicians .
अधिक  was an opponent of the Protestant Reformation , in particular of Martin Luther and William Tyndale .
However , since  1980 , he is भी commemorated  by the Church of England as a reformation martyr .
अधिक coined the शब्द  `` utopia `` – a name he gave to the ideal and imaginary island nation , the political system of which he described in Utopia , published in 1516 .
He opposed the King 's separation from the Roman Catholic Church and refused to accept him as Supreme Head of the Church of England  , a title  which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534 .
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the oath required by the First  उत्तराधिकार अधिनियम , क्युकी the  act disparaged Papal Authority and Henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon .
In   1535 , he was tried for treason , convicted on perjured testimony , and beheaded .
More also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at straws '' to mean `` desperately trying even useless things '' , in his  संवाद of सुकून विरूद्ध tribulation  .
Intellectuals and statesmen across Europe were  दंग  by More 's execution .
Erasmus saluted him as one `` whose soul was more pure than any snow , whose genius was such that England never had and never  again  will have its like '' .
There was a more controversial side  to  More 's life , because he advocated the persecution and execution of Protestants who refused to recant their faith .
However , the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive this in light of the times he lived in and his martyrdom  in the रोमन कैथोलिक कारण .
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said  अधिक थी ``  the person of the greatest virtue this kingdom ever produced '' , a sentiment with which Samuel Johnson agreed .
Historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said in 1977 that More was `` the first great Englishman whom we feel  that we know , the most  saintly of humanists , the most human of saints , the universal man of our cool northern renaissance . ''
Captain Nemo , also known as Prince Dakkar , is a fictional character invented  by the  French science fiction author Jules Verne .
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels , Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 ) and The Mysterious Island ( 1874 ) , and makes   a cameo appearance in Verne 's play Journey Through the Impossible ( 1882 ) .
Nemo , one of the most famous  antiheroes  in fiction , is a mysterious figure .
The  son  of an Indian Raja , he is a scientific genius who roams the depths of the sea in his submarine , the Nautilus , which was built on a deserted island .
Nemo tries to project a  stern  , controlled confidence , but he is driven by a thirst for vengeance and a hatred of imperialism ( particularly the British Empire ) .
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of his crew  सदस्यों और  even by the deaths of enemy sailors .
Nemo has appeared in various adaptations of Verne 's novels , including films , where he has been portrayed   by a number of different actors .
He has furthermore  been adopted  by other authors for inclusion in their novels , most notably in Alan Moore 's The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen and Philip José Farmer 's The Other Log of Phileas Fogg .
Listed  नीचे हैं the प्रमुख लीग  Baseball teams with the best season won-lost records in history , as determined by winning percentage ( .700 or better ) , minimum 120 games played .
Acoustic  coupler  modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a device that modulates an analog carrier signal to encode digital information , and also demodulates such a carrier  signal to  decode the transmitted information .
The goal is to produce a signal that can be transmitted easily and decoded to reproduce the original digital  आंकड़ा  .
Modems can be used over any means of transmitting analog signals , from light emitting  diodes  to radio .
The most familiar example is a voice band modem that turns  the digital data of a  personal computer into modulated electrical signals in the voice frequency range of a telephone channel .
ये सिग्नल can be transmitted over टेलीफोन लाइनों और demodulated by another मॉडेम at the receiver पक्ष to रिकवर the डिजिटल आंकड़ा .
Modems are generally classified by the amount  of data they can send in a  given unit of time , usually expressed in bits per second ( bit/s , or bps ) , or bytes per second ( B/s ) .
Modems can alternatively  be  classified by their symbol rate , measured in baud .
the baud ईकाई denotes प्रतीकों प्रति दूसरी , or the क्रमांक of टाइम्स प्रति दूसरी the मॉडेम भेजना a नई सिग्नल .
For  उदाहरण , the itu v.21 मानक प्रयुक्त ऑडियो आवृत्ति  shift keying with two possible frequencies corresponding to two distinct symbols ( or one bit per symbol ) , to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud .
By contrast  ,  the original ITU V.22 standard , which was able to transmit and receive four distinct symbols ( two bits per symbol ) , handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying .
The Declaration of Independence is a  बयान  adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4 , 1776 , which announced that the thirteen American colonies , then at war with Great Britain , regarded themselves as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
Instead they now formed  a नई  nation—the United States of America .
जॉन एडम्स थी a नेता  in pushing for independence , which was unanimously approved on July 2 .
A committee had already drafted the formal  घोषणा  , to be ready when congress voted on independence .
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original draft of the document , which congress would edit to  उपज the फाइनल  version .
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain  , more than  a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the Independence Day is celebrated on July 4 , although  Adams  wanted July 2 .
After ratifying the text on July 4 , Congress issued the Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता  in several forms .
It was initially published as the printed Dunlap  broadside  that was widely distributed and read to the public .
The most famous  संस्करण of the घोषणा , a हस्ताक्षरित नक़ल कि is popularly regarded as the घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता , is प्रदर्शित at the नेशनल अभिलेख in वॉशिंगटन , d.c .
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4 , the date of its signing  was  August 2 .
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost while all other   copies have been derived from this original document .
The sources and interpretation of the  घोषणा have  been the subject of much scholarly inquiry .
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by  लिस्टिंग औपनिवेशिक grievances  against King George III , and by asserting certain natural and legal rights , including a right of revolution .
Having served its original  purpose in announcing  independence , the text of the Declaration was initially ignored after the American Revolution .
चूंकि तब , it रै आइये to be माना a प्रमुख बयान on इंसान अधिकारों , विशेषकर इसके दूसरी sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights , that among  these  are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness .
इस रै महरूम पुकारा ``  one of the best-known sentences in the English language '' , containing `` the most potent and consequential words in American history . ''
The passage   came to represent a moral standard to which the United States should strive .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy , and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through  which  the United States Constitution should be interpreted .
It has inspired work for the rights of marginalized people throughout   the world .
The Economy of Greenland can be characterized as small ,  मिश्रित और vulnerable  .
The present economy consists of a big public sector and comprehensive foreign trade , which has resulted in an economy with periods of strong growth , considerable inflation , unemployment problems and extreme dependence on capital  inflow from Denmark and use of outside ,  mainly Danish , skilled labor .
जीडीपी प्रति capita is समान to the औसत यूरोपीय economies लकिन the अर्थव्यवस्था is critically निर्भर upon substantial support इससे the डैनिश सरकारी , जिससे आपूर्तियाँ परिचय हाफ the revenues of the घर नियम सरकारी जो in फेरे employ परिचय 8,000 greenlanders आउट of a मजदूर फ़ोर्स of 40,156 ( jan.  2012 ) .
Unemployment nonetheless remains high , with  the बाकी of the अर्थव्यवस्था  dependent upon demand for exports of shrimp and fish .
Hydrogen is a chemical element with symbol H and  परमाणु  number 1 .
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ) , hydrogen is the  lightest तत्व  and its monatomic form ( H1 ) is the most abundant chemical substance , constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass .
Non- remnant stars are mainly composed of hydrogen in its  प्लाज्मा राज्य  .
At standard temperature and pressure , hydrogen is a colorless , odorless , tasteless , non-toxic , nonmetallic , highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular  सूत्र  H2 .
Most of the  हाइड्रोजन on धरती is in अणुओं  such as water and organic compounds because hydrogen readily forms covalent compounds with most non-metallic elements .
Hydrogen plays a particularly important role in acid-base chemistry with many  प्रतिक्रियाएँ  exchanging protons between soluble molecules .
In ionic compounds , it can take a negative charge ( an anion known as a  हाइड्राइड और  written as H− ) , or as a positively charged species H+ .
The latter  cation  is written as though composed of a bare proton , but in reality , hydrogen cations in ionic compounds always occur as more complex species .
The most common isotope of  हाइड्रोजन  is protium ( name rarely used , symbol 1H ) with a single proton and no neutrons .
As the simplest atom known , the hydrogen atom has been  of  theoretical use .
For example , as the only neutral  अणु  with an analytic solution to the Schrödinger equation , the study of the energetics and bonding of the hydrogen atom played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics .
Hydrogen gas was first artificially produced in the early 16th century , via the  mixing  of metals with acids .
In 1766–81 , Henry Cavendish was the first to recognize  कि हाइड्रोजन गैस  was a discrete substance , and that it produces water when burned , a property which later gave it its name : in Greek , hydrogen means `` water-former '' .
Industrial  उत्पादन is मुख्यतः इससे  the steam reforming of natural gas , and less often from more energy-intensive hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of water .
Most hydrogen is employed near  इसके उत्पादन  site , with the two largest uses being fossil fuel processing ( e.g. , hydrocracking ) and ammonia production , mostly for the fertilizer market .
हाइड्रोजन is a  concern in metallurgy as it can embrittle many metals , complicating the design of pipelines and storage tanks .
Unstoppable is a 2010  अमरीकी  action thriller film directed by Tony Scott , written by Mark Bomback , and starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine .
The film , loosely based on the real-life CSX 8888 incident , tells the story of a runaway freight train , and the two men ( Washington and Pine  ) who manage to  stop it .
It was Scott 's final feature film before his  मौत in 2012  .
The film was  released in  the United States and Canada on November 12 , 2010 , and in the United Kingdom on November 24 , 2010 .
It received mostly favorable reviews from film critics ; it garnered a ``  certified  Fresh '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews and a rating of `` Generally favorable reviews '' at Metacritic .
The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Sound  संपादन  at the 83rd Academy Awards , but lost to Inception .
In photography , bracketing is the general technique of taking several shots of the  वही  subject using different camera settings .
Bracketing is useful and often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image with a single shot , especially when a  छोटी विभिन्नता  in exposure parameters has a comparatively large effect on the resulting image .
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a setting on the camera to take several bracketed shots ( in contrast to the photographer altering the settings by hand between  each  shot ) .
Given the time it takes to accomplish multiple  गोलियाँ , it  is typically , but not always , used for static subjects .
Insulated glazing ( IG ) , more commonly known as  दोगुना glazing  ( or double-pane , and increasingly triple glazing/pane ) are double or triple glass window panes separated by an air or other gas filled space to reduce heat transfer across a part of the building envelope .
Insulated Glass Units are manufactured with glass in  दायरा of मोटाई  from 3 mm to 10 mm or more in special applications .
Laminated or tempered glass may also  be used as  part of the construction .
Most units are manufactured with  the  same thickness of glass used on both panes but special applications such as acoustic attenuation or security may require wide ranges of thicknesses to be incorporated in the same unit .
A sectioned diagram of a fixed Insulated Glazed Unit ( IGU ) , indicating the numbering convention used in   this article .
Surface # 1 is facing outside , Surface # 2 is the inside surface of the exterior pane , Surface # 3 is the outside surface of the interior pane , and Surface # 4 is the inside surface of  आंतरिक  pane .
The window frame is labelled # 5 , a spacer is indicated as # 6 , seals are shown in red ( # 7 ) , the internal reveal is  on the  right hand side ( # 8 ) and the exterior windowsill on the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed unit ( a major cause of premature failure ) , manufacturers use a rule of thumb that permits a difference of 1 mm between the thickness of the panes of glass used in the unit  और स्टिल maintain the वारंटी  for the unit .
For   example , a unit may be ordered with a 4 mm pane on the exterior and a 3 mm pane on the interior .
These variations are allowed for architectural  और  cost reasons .
Other combinations can be specified and produced but the manufacturer may reserve the right to limit the term of the warranty or  इंकार  to warranty the unit altogether .
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned unit are named according to the following convention : Surface # 1 ( facing outside ) , Surface # 2 ( inside of outside pane ) , Surface # 3 ( outside of inside pane ) and Surface # 4 ( inside  surface of inside pane )  .
Applying the corresponding nomenclature for triple paned  units  results in surfaces # 1 through # 6 .
The performance of  insulating  glazing can be modified through the use of the following:
A typical installation of insulated glazing windows with  upvc खिड़की  frames .
Selenium is a chemical element with symbol Se and atomic  क्रमांक  34 .
It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate  between  those of its periodic table column-adjacent chalcogen elements sulfur and tellurium .
It rarely occurs in its elemental state in nature  , or as pure  ore compounds .
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` Moon '' ) was discovered in 1817 by Jöns Jacob Berzelius , who noted the similarity of the new element to the  previously-known  tellurium ( named for the Earth ) .
Selenium is found impurely in metal sulfide  ores ,  where it partially replaces the sulfur .
Commercially , selenium is  उत्पादित as  a byproduct in the refining of these ores , most often during copper production .
Minerals that are pure selenide or  selenate  compounds are known , but are rare .
The chief commercial uses for selenium today are in glassmaking   and in pigments .
Selenium is a  सेमीकंडक्टर  and is used in photocells .
Uses in electronics , once important ,  have महरूम ज़्यादातर  supplanted by silicon semiconductor devices .
Selenium continues to be used in a few types of DC power surge  protectors और एक  type of fluorescent quantum dot .
Selenium salts  हैं विषाक्त  in large amounts , but trace amounts are necessary for cellular function in many organisms , including all animals .
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes  glutathione peroxidase  and thioredoxin reductase ( which indirectly reduce certain oxidized molecules in animals and some plants ) .
It is  भी मिला in  three deiodinase enzymes , which convert one thyroid hormone to another .
Selenium requirements in plants differ by species , with some plants requiring relatively large amounts , and others apparently  requiring  none .
The United States presidential election of 2008 was the 56th  quadrennial अध्यक्षीय  election .
It  थी आयोजित  on Tuesday , November 4 , 2008 .
Democrat Barack Obama , then the junior Senator from  इलिनोइस , पराजित  Republican John McCain , the senior Senator from Arizona .
As the campaign progressed , the War in Iraq and outgoing Republican President  George W. Bush had become  increasingly unpopular , and the major-party candidates ran on a platform of change and reform .
Domestic policy and the economy eventually emerged as the main themes in the last few months  of the election campaign  after the onset of the worst recession since the 1930s .
Obama would go on to win a decisive victory over McCain in both the electoral and  लोकप्रिय  vote .
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American history , and won the popular and electoral vote by  the largest हाशिया  in 12 years , as well as the largest percentage of the popular vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century .
This was the first U.S. presidential election  in which an African  American was elected , having also been the first in which an African American won the nomination of either major party .
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. history that both major party  उम्मीदवार यहूद बैठे u.s . सीनेटरों , तभी the तीसरा  time ( after 1920 and 1960 ) that any sitting U.S . Senator was elected president , and only the second time that the winning President and Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S . Senators .
This was also the first election since 1952 in which neither of the major parties ' nominees was  the incumbent  President or Vice President .
The  sovereign प्रिंस or राजकुमारी of मोनाको is the reigning monarch और सिर of राज्य of the principality of मोनाको .
All princes or princesses have officially taken the name of the House of Grimaldi , but have belonged to various other   houses ( Goyon de Matignon , Polignac ) in male line .
The  reigning  Prince is Albert II .
Visualization of fragmentation and  तब  of defragmentation
In   the maintenance of file systems , defragmentation is a process that reduces the amount of fragmentation .
It does this by physically organizing the contents of the mass storage  यंत्र प्रयुक्त to स्टोर फाइलें  into the smallest number of contiguous regions ( fragments ) .
It also attempts to create larger regions of free  स्पेस using compaction  to impede the return of fragmentation .
Some defragmentation  उपयोगिताएँ  try to keep smaller files within a single directory together , as they are often accessed in sequence .
Defragmentation  is  advantageous and relevant to file systems on electromechanical disk drives .
The movement of the hard drive 's read/write heads over different areas  of the डिस्क  when accessing fragmented files is slower , compared to accessing the entire contents of a non-fragmented file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments .
A service-level agreement ( SLA ) is a part  of  a service contract where a service is formally defined .
In practice , the term SLA is sometimes used to refer to the contracted  डिलीवरी समय (  of the service or performance ) .
As an example , internet service providers will commonly include service level agreements within the terms of their contracts with customers to define the level ( s ) of service being sold in plain language   terms .
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in terms of mean time between failures ( MTBF ) , mean time to repair or mean time to recovery ( MTTR ) ; various data rates ;  throughput ; जिटर ; or समान  measurable details .
Union   Station is a former shopping mall in Union City , Georgia , in southwest metro Atlanta adjacent to Interstate 85 .
After new   ownership and renovations in 2006 , the name was changed from Shannon Southpark Mall in 2007 to Union Station Mall .
A previous renovation was  किया in  the late 1990s .
The mall has been   closed since November 2010 .
इस मैप shows  the contiguous United States and , in insets at the lower left , the two states that are not contiguous .
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the continent of North America that are south of  कनाडा  and north of Mexico , plus the District of Columbia .
The term excludes the states of Alaska and Hawaii , and all  off-shore  U.S. territories and possessions , such as Puerto Rico .
Together , the 48 contiguous states and D.C. occupy a combined area of , which is 1.58 % of the total  सतह  area of the Earth .
Of this , is  जमीन , composing  83.65 % of U.S. land area .
officially  , is water area , composing 62.66 % of the nation 's water area .
The 2010 census population was 306,675,006 , composing 99.33 % of the nation 's  जनसांख्यिकी  , and a density of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ) , compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a whole .
`` Why  '' is the  title of a song recorded by American country band Rascal Flatts .
It is the  तीसरा  single from their sixth studio album , Unstoppable .
It was released to radio stations on September 29 , 2009 and debuted  at # 44  on the U.S . Billboard US Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week of October 10 , 2009 .
It was  लिखा  by Rob Mathes and Allen Shamblin .
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness , medical need and efficiency of health care services procedures and facilities according to established criteria or  दिशानिर्देश  and under the provisions of an applicable health benefits plan .
typically  it includes new activities or decisions based upon the analysis of a case .
Utilization management describes  proactive प्रक्रियाओं  , including discharge planning , concurrent planning , pre-certification and clinical case appeals .
It also covers proactive processes , such as concurrent clinical reviews and peer  समीक्षाएँ  , as well as appeals introduced by the provider , payer or patient .
As pre-certification and concurrent review of cases grew , utilization management spun out of  utilization पुनर्विलोकन  .
While not synonymous  , health care  professionals tend to use the terms as interchangeable .
The difference is utilization management is and intends  to  manage health care cases efficiently and cost effectively before and during health care administration .
Utilization review is more considering whether health  परवाह  was appropriately applied after it was administered .
There are four basic techniques  in utilization  management:
Demand  प्रबन्धन
utilization  Review
मामला  Management
Disease  प्रबन्धन
the outsiders is  a coming-of-age novel by S. E. Hinton , first published in 1967 by Viking Press .
hinton थी 15 जब वो प्रारंभ लिखने the अनोखा , लकिन किया सबसे of the कार्य जब वो थी सोलह और a जूनियर in ऊँची स्कूल  .
Hinton  थी 18 जब the किताब थी प्रकाशित .
The book follows two rival  समूह ,  the Greasers and the Socs ( pronounced by the author as , short for Socials ) , who are divided by their socioeconomic status .
The book takes place in Tulsa , Oklahoma , in 1965  , लकिन  it is never stated in the book .
A film adaptation was produced in 1983 , and a  little-known  short-lived television series appeared in 1990 , picking up where the movie left off .
The United States House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the United States  कॉंग्रेस (  a bicameral legislature ) .
It  is  frequently referred to as the House .
the  other house is the Senate .
The  संयोजन  and powers of the House are established in Article One of the United States Constitution .
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless  both the House and Senate re-pass  the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills , to impeach  officials , और to elect the u.S.  President in case there is no majority in the Electoral College .
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion  to इसके  population but is entitled to at least one representative .
The most populous state , California , currently  रै 53  representatives .
The total number of  मतदान  representatives is fixed by law at 435 .
Each representative serves for a  two-year पद  .
The Speaker of the United States House of Representatives , who presides over the chamber , is elected by the members of the House , and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican  Conference ,  whichever party has more voting members .
The House  meets  in the south wing of the United States Capitol .
A supply chain is actually a   complex and dynamic supply and demand network .
( cf .   Wieland/Wallenburg , 2011 )
A supply chain is a system of organizations , people , activities , information , and resources involved in moving a product or service  from supplier  to customer .
Supply chain activities transform natural resources , raw materials , and components into a finished product that is delivered to  the end  customer .
In sophisticated supply chain systems , used products may re-enter the supply chain  at  any point where residual value is recyclable .
Supply chains link  मान  chains .
`` Purple Haze '' is a song written  और अंकित  by Jimi Hendrix in 1967 , released as the second single by The Jimi Hendrix Experience in both the United Kingdom and the United States .
It later  appeared on  the American version of the band 's 1967 album Are You Experienced .
`` Purple Haze '' has become one of the ``  archetypical साइकेडेलिक  drug songs of the sixties '' .
`` Purple Haze 's '' guitar virtuosic  तकनीकों होता  be emulated by many metal guitarists .
A close  up  picture of a rhinoceros skin .
Skin is the soft  बाहरी covering  of vertebrates .
Other animal coverings such as the arthropod exoskeleton have  अलग developmental  origin , structure and chemical composition .
The adjective cutaneous means `` of the skin '' ( from Latin cutis  ,  skin ) .
in स्तनधारियों , the स्किन is the  largest organ of the integumentary system made up of multiple layers of ectodermal tissue , and guards the underlying muscles , bones , ligaments and internal organs .
Skin of a different nature exists  in amphibians  , reptiles , and birds .
All mammals have   some hair on their skin , even marine mammals which appear to be hairless .
The skin interfaces with the environment and is the first line  of रक्षा  from external factors .
For example , the skin plays a key role in protecting the  देह विरूद्ध  pathogens and excessive water loss .
Its other functions are insulation , temperature regulation , sensation , and the production of vitamin D  folates  .
Severely damaged skin may heal by  forming  scar tissue .
इस is sometimes discoloured और depigmented  .
the  thickness of skin also varies from location to location on an organism .
In humans for example , the skin located under  the आँखें और around the  eyelids is the thinnest skin in the body at 0.5 mm thick , and is one of the first areas to show signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles .
The skin on the palms and the soles of the feet is 4 mm thick  और the  thickest skin in the body .
Fur is  घना  hair .
Primarily , fur augments the insulation the skin   provides but can also serve as a secondary sexual characteristic or as camouflage .
On some animals , the skin is very hard and thick , and can be processed to  बनाएँ चमड़े  .
Reptiles  और मछली  have hard protective scales on their skin for protection , and birds have hard feathers , all made of tough β- keratins .
Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier to passage of chemicals   and is often subject to osmosis and diffusive forces .
For example , a frog sitting in an  anesthetic  solution would be sedated quickly , as the chemical diffuses through its skin .
थामस  Scott
The Rev . Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential  उपदेशक  and author who is principally known for his best-selling work A Commentary On The Whole Bible and The Force of Truth , and as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society .
Daniel Radcliffe , who portrays Harry Potter , has been the  प्रतीक  of the film series since the release of the first film in 2001 .
Some of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom and Ireland have voiced or portrayed  वर्ण  appearing in the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling .
Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert Grint and Emma  वाटसन have निभाई  Harry Potter , Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in all the films .
When they were cast  तभी radcliffe  had previously acted in a film .
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter , Jim  broadbent , जॉन cleese , रोबी  Coltrane , Warwick Davis , Ralph Fiennes , Michael Gambon , Brendan Gleeson , Richard Griffiths , Richard Harris , John Hurt , Jason Isaacs , Miriam Margolyes , Helen McCrory , Gary Oldman , Alan Rickman , Fiona Shaw , Maggie Smith , Timothy Spall , Imelda Staunton , David Thewlis , Emma Thompson , and Julie Walters , among others .
Thirteen actors have appeared as the same character  in सब आठ  films of the franchise .
Some well-known British actors who have not appeared in the  श्रेणी  , are asked in jest why they have not been cast .
When David Yates was directing the fifth film , Bill Nighy , who had previously collaborated with Yates on three of his television projects , said that he joked with Yates that maybe now he would n't be the only actor in England who had n't been in   Harry Potter .
`` But  nobody  called '' , Nighy added .
But in 2009 , Yates cast Nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour in   Deathly Hallows .
Nighy said , ``   I am no longer the only English actor not to be in Harry Potter and I am very pleased . ''
Jude Law has  quipped  , `` Nobody 's asked me .
I was a bit too old   for Harry '' .
When a reporter compared potions professor Horace Slughorn 's obsession with famous names to the series ' connection to `` every notable British actor , '' Jim Broadbent , who plays Slughorn said , `` Well , not  प्रत्येक  actor gets invited .
I know some who are  स्टिल  waiting . ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus , each director has had a cameo appearance in his respective film : Alfonso Cuarón appears as a wizard holding a candle during a scene at The Three Broomsticks in Prisoner of Azkaban ; Mike Newell is heard briefly as the radio presenter in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a  जादूगर भीतर  a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix .
Producer  दाउद heyman भी makes  a cameo appearance as a wizard featured within a magical moving portrait in the third film , Prisoner of Azkaban .
J.  K. रोलिंग दिया a वाक दौरान the संसार प्रीमियर of the फाइनल फिल्मी in the series— हैरी कुम्हार और the deathly hallows भाग 2 —on 7 जुलाई 2011 in लंदन , इंग्लैण्ड .
She announced that she could never have dreamt of the talented  actors  and actresses who have appeared in all the Harry Potter movies .
Rowling also announced that there are seven Harry Potter film series cast members , who she refers to as `` The Big Seven '' , they are Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert  Grint , Emma Watson , Tom  Felton , Matthew Lewis , Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright .
The list below is sorted by film and character , as some  वर्ण have महरूम portrayed  by multiple actors .
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the actor or actress lent only   his or her voice for his or her film character
( y ) indicates the actor or actress  portrayed the  role in a flashback scene or when the character was young .
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did not appear in any new footage for the film ; footage   from an earlier film or films was used .
A light grey cell ( such as the one in the `` Charity Burbage '' row in  the  `` Philosopher 's Stone '' column ) indicates the character was not in the film adaptation .
A twelve-step program is a set of guiding principles ( accepted by members as 'spiritual principles , ' based on the approved literature ) outlining a course of action for recovery  इससे , मजबूरी ,  or other behavioral problems .
originally प्रस्तावित by alcoholics बेनाम ( aa ) as a विधि of रिकवरी इससे alcoholism , the बारह कदम यहूद पहला प्रकाशित in the किताब alcoholics बेनाम : the स्टोरी of कैसा अधिक than एक सौ मेन have बरामद इससे alcoholism  in 1939 .
The method was then adapted and became the  न्यास  of other twelve-step programs .
As summarized by the American   Psychological Association , the process involves the following:
admitting that one can not control one  's व्यसन  or compulsion ;
recognizing a higher power that can   give strength ;
examining past errors with the help of a  प्रायोजक  ( experienced member ) ;
making amends for these errors   ;
learning to live a new life with a new code of   behavior ;
helping अन्य  who suffer from the same addictions or compulsions .
Witness impeachment , in the law of evidence of the United States , is the process of calling into question the credibility of an  व्यक्तिगत जो is testifying  in a trial .
the संघीय नियम  of Evidence contain the rules governing impeachment in federal courts .
Party  नेताओ और whips of the  United States House of Representatives are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and are also known as floor leaders .
The U.S. House of   Representatives does not officially use the term `` Minority Leader '' although the media frequently do .
The House instead uses the terms `` Republican  नेता  '' or `` Democratic Leader '' depending on which party holds a minority of seats .
The current House Majority Leader is Republican Eric Cantor , while the current House Minority  Leader  is Democrat Nancy Pelosi .
The current House Majority Whip is  रिपब्लिकन केविन  McCarthy , while the current House Minority Whip is Democrat Steny Hoyer .
Following the  outbreak of संसार युद्ध i in 1914 , the जर्मनी  Army opened the Western Front by first invading Luxembourg and Belgium , then gaining military control of important industrial regions in France .
The tide of the advance was  dramatically  turned with the Battle of the Marne .
Following the race to the sea , both sides dug in along a meandering line of fortified trenches  , stretching इससे the उत्तर  Sea to the Swiss frontier with France .
This line remained essentially unchanged  for  most of the war .
Between 1915 and 1917 there were  अनेक  major offensives along this front .
The attacks employed massive artillery  bombardments और  massed infantry advances .
However  , a combination  of entrenchments , machine gun nests , barbed wire , and artillery repeatedly inflicted severe casualties on the attackers and counterattacking defenders .
As a result , no significant advances were   made .
Among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a combined [ estimated ] 700,000 dead , the Battle of the Somme with more than [ an estimated ]  लाख हताहत ,  and the Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties .
In an effort to break the deadlock , this  सामने देखी the परिचय of नई  military technology , including poison gas , aircraft and tanks .
But it was only after  the adoption  of improved tactics that some degree of mobility was restored .
The German Spring Offensive of 1918 was made possible by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk that marked  the समाप्त of the विरोध  on the Eastern Front .
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics , the German armies advanced nearly to the west , which marked the deepest  अग्रिम  by either side since 1914 and very nearly succeeded in forcing a breakthrough .
In spite of the generally stagnant nature of this front , this theater  would  prove decisive .
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies during the second half of 1918 persuaded the German commanders that defeat  थी अपरिहार्य , और the सरकारी  was forced to sue for conditions of an armistice .
The terms  of peace were  agreed upon with the signing of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 .
The following is a list of  पुनरावर्ती और नाबालिग वर्ण in the डिज़्नी  Channel Original Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody .
These characters were regularly  घुमाया  , often disappearing for long periods during the series .
The following list of characters has been sorted  alphabetically ,  by first name .
Some of the characters had no last name and most were commonly referred to by their first name so this appeared to  be  the most logical method .
In the case of Chef Paolo , who had no known first name , they have been listed by  शीर्षक  .
The First Lady of the United States  (  FLOTUS ) is the hostess of the White House .
Because  इस स्थिति  is traditionally filled by the wife of the President of the United States , the title is most often applied to the wife of a sitting president .
the  current First Lady is Michelle Obama .
After her husband Barack Obama was re-elected on November 6 , 2012 , she is scheduled to serve until   January 20 , 2017 .
Septic shock is a medical condition as a result of severe infection and sepsis , though the microbe may be systemic or localized to a  particular  site .
It  can कारण  multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly known as multiple organ failure ) and death .
Its most common victims are children , immunocompromised individuals , and the elderly , as their  immune systems can not  deal with the infection as effectively as those of healthy adults .
Frequently , patients suffering from septic shock are cared  लिये in intensive  care units .
The mortality rate from septic shock is approximately 25–50   % .
Kevin  brereton (  born February 20 , 1972 ) , better known by his stage name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ) , is a Canadian rapper , singer , songwriter and record producer .
His given name  may  also be cited as Kheaven , a spelling he later adopted .
The alias `` k-os '' , spelled with a lower case `` k '' , was intended to be less aggressive than the pseudonyms of other rappers whose names were all upper case  ,  such as KRS-One .
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self , '' although in a later interview he said that it originally stood for `` Kevin 's Original Sound . '' k-os ' music incorporates a wide variety of music genres , including rap , funk , rock , and  रेगी  .
the गीत अक्सर फ़ोकस  on promoting a `` positive message '' while at times expressing criticism of mainstream hip hop culture 's obsession with money , fame and glorification of violence .
A musician as well as a producer , k-os has written and produced  nearly प्रत्येक भाग  of all four of his albums .
k-os प्रायः  performs with a live band , something that is uncommon in the hip hop genre .
He sometimes plays guitar and keyboard both during live performances and in the  स्टुडियो  .
k-os received his  पहला musical एक्सपोज़र  with the single `` Musical Essence '' , released in 1993 .
After the release of his second single  `` Rise  Like the Sun '' in 1996 , he withdrew from the industry because he was dissatisfied with his musical style .
He reappeared briefly in 1999 and released  उसके  debut album Exit in 2002 .
The album received positive  समीक्षाएँ लकिन बेची  relatively few copies .
He released his second album Joyful Rebellion in 2004 , which received   platinum status in Canada .
A third album , , was released in 2006 and also went  प्लेटिनम  .
His fourth album , Yes  !
,  थी  released in 2009 .
His fifth  album  BLack on BLonde was released in 2013 .
the आधिकारिक 2007 संस्करण of the ucc  .
Even the  गोपनीय अशिष्ट  drafts of the UCC were saved and published as a 10-volume set .
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code ) , first published in 1952 , is one of a number of uniform acts that have been  promulgated  in conjunction with efforts to harmonize the law of sales and other commercial transactions in all 50 states within the United States of America .
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of  चढ़ाई रूट  with one or more stops at a belay station .
Each section of actual climbing between stops at the belay stations  is  called a pitch .
the नेता ascends the पिच , रखकर गियर और stopping to लंगर themselves to the belay स्टेशन .
The reason for the stops can be determined by choice , convention  or  necessity .
लिये  example:
The  रस्सी  is too short to do the entire route in one pitch ( necessity ) .
The leader has run out  of सुरक्षात्मक गियर (  necessity ) .
There is a convenient protectable ledge , or fixed bolts  लगाई  by previous climbers , at the location for a belay station ( convention ) .
the नेता chooses to बाकी or एक्सचेंज लीड पहले the अगला खण्ड of the चढ़ाई ( चुनाव ) .
The general purpose of these stops is to allow the second to ascend to the point of the lead climber while collecting the protective gear  इससे the रूट  in the course of the lead climber 's ascent .
at the belay स्टेशन  , the protective gear is collected , possibly exchanged to a new leader , and the leader of the next pitch ascends the route .
A diagram showing an I Formation on offense  and a  4-3 Formation on defense
In American football  ,  each team has eleven players on the field at one time .
The specific role that a player takes  on the  field is called their position .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions , that is teams  may बदलें कोई  number of players after any play .
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players  , the offense ( the team  with the ball , who is trying to score ) , the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring , and to take the ball from them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons , various specific positions exist depending  on  what the player 's main job is .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA  )  was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture  , importation ,  possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also served as  the नेशनल  implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation created five Schedules ( classifications ) , with varying qualifications for a substance  to be  included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by  कॉंग्रेस निर्मित the आरंभिक लिस्टिंग , और कॉंग्रेस रै sometimes अनुसूचित  other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000 , which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
The  वेन  Route 23 Transit Center is a New Jersey Transit park-and-ride station in Wayne , New Jersey along the Montclair-Boonton Line that provides bus service to New York City and various other points in the area as well as Montclair-Boonton Line train service to New York , Hoboken , and intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University .
It is located off of the southbound lanes of New Jersey Route 23 on West Belt Road , near the interchange where Route 23 ,  अंतरराज्यीय 80 , और u.S. रूट 46  meet , across from the Willowbrook Mall .
The  स्टेशन खोली in  January 2008 and has 1,000 parking spaces .
New Jersey Transit intends for this combined rail and bus station to become an `` interceptor station , '' that will help relieve the habitual congestion at the West Belt Road Interchange , where the three major  राजमार्गों  meet .
In addition ,  the  construction of the station was meant to also ease the congestion at what was then Route 23 Park & Ride , a bus depot on Route 23 North that has since been renamed Mother 's Park & Ride , and the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ; the now-Mother 's site had limited parking while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook .
The Wayne Township bus   garage is located on the opposite side of Route 23 .
वहीँ रै महरूम a  proposal to build a parking deck with another thousand spots and develop the land at the station .
In addition to Montclair-Boonton  रेल  , the Transit Center is served by the following New Jersey Transit bus lines:
75 to Newark Penn Station and  बटलर
194 to Port Authority Bus Terminal and   Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port Authority Bus  टर्मिनल  and William Paterson University
324 to Port   Authority and Wayne Route 23
748 to Willowbrook  मॉल  and Paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly called the at symbol , ampersat , apetail  or वाणिज्यिक  at in English—and less commonly a wide range of other terms .
The fact that there  is  no single word in English for the symbol has prompted some writers to use the French arobase or Spanish and Portuguese arroba—or to coin new words such as asperand , ampersat—but none of these has achieved wide currency .
Originally an accounting and commercial invoice abbreviation meaning `` at the rate  of  '' ( e.g . 7 widgets @ $ 2 = $ 14 ) , it was not included on the keyboard of the earliest commercially successful typewriters , but was on at least one 1889 model and the very successful Underwood models from the `` Underwood No . 5 '' in 1900 onward .
It is now  universally  included on computer keyboards .
In recent years , its meaning has grown to include the sense of being `` located at , '' `` and , '' or `` directed at '' , especially in email addresses and  सोशल मीडिया , विशेषकर  Twitter .
The mark  is एनकोडेड  at .
The Catcher in the Rye is a 1951  अनोखा  by J. D. Salinger .
originally प्रकाशित लिये वयस्कों , it रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय साथ adolescent पाठक लिये इसके विषयवस्तु of teenage angst और alienation  .
it रै महरूम अनूदित into लगभग सब of the संसार 's प्रमुख भाषाएं  .
Around 250,000 copies are sold each year with total  बिक्री of अधिक than 65 लाख  books .
The novel 's protagonist and antihero , Holden  caulfield , रै  become an icon for teenage rebellion .
The novel was included on Times 2005 list of the 100 best English-language novels written since 1923 , and it was named by Modern Library and its readers as one of the 100  बेहतरीन english-language novels  of the 20th century .
It has been frequently challenged in the United States  और अन्य देशों लिये  its liberal use of profanity and portrayal of sexuality .
It also deals with  complex issues  of identity , belonging , connection , and alienation .
Skeletal  मांसपेशियां  homo sapiens
This is a table of muscles of the human  anatomy  .
There are approximately 642   skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of identical bilateral muscles , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
Nevertheless , the exact number is difficult to define because different  स्त्रोत  group muscles differently , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
Examples range from 640  to  850 .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include  मांसपेशियां relating to the  head and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers to the  कार्रवाई of  each muscle from the standard anatomical position .
In other positions , other actions  may  be performed .
Bad Girls Club ( BGC ) is an American reality television series created by Jonathan   Murray for the Oxygen television station .
The show centers on seven feisty and mischievous women with different backgrounds and personalities , who have a number  of  psychological and behavioral problems .
They are introduced to the  दिखाएँ बंद उनके  pernicious behavior and accomplish specific goals .
The cast , deemed `` bad girls '' , enjoy a luxurious lifestyle in a fine   mansion for three months , during which they must obey specified rules .
Their lives inside   – and outside – of the house are chronicled and recorded by the production team .
The Bad Girls Club is broadcast in  पाँच  countries ( United States , Netherlands , Australia , Hungary , and Sweden ) .
It has received negative reviews from critics , who  मानना the दिखाएँ  promotes violence by adolescent viewers .
furthermore  , several cast members made controversial remarks which outraged many viewers .
The format of the show has changed from early   seasons .
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a rule  , she is evicted  from the show and , if it is early in the season , replaced by a new `` bad girl '' .
There have been nine complete seasons of The Bad Girls Club , with the tenth  season  currently airing .
The fourth season had the highest ratings in the show 's history , becoming its  `` भेदन  season '' .
There have been three spin-offs of  the  Bad Girls Club .
One of them , Love Games : Bad Girls  Need Love Too , where past  cast members seek true love , has gained high ratings .
Oxygen has also released a mobile  खेल ,  comic strip and merchandise to promote the show .
Of the 92 contestants   , Kerry Harvick ( of season one ) was a successful country singer before the show .
tanisha थामस (  of season two ) later hosted Oxygen 's OxygenLive !
and the subsequent seasons of Love   Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too .
Thomas , who has been dubbed the `` godmother '' to all  प्रतियोगी , रै उसके अपना टेलीविज़न  documentary entitled Tanisha Gets Married .
As of Season 8 she 's been the host of the reunion  specials  .
The Iowa Senate is the upper  हाउस of the आयोवा  General Assembly .
There are 50 seats in the Iowa   Senate , representing 50 single-member districts across the state with populations of approximately 60,927 per constituency , .
Each Senate district is  रचित  of two House districts .
The Senate meets at the Iowa State  कैपिटल  in Des Moines .
Unlike the lower   house , the Iowa House of Representatives , Senators serve four-year terms , with half of the Senate staggered for re-election every two years .
There are no term limits for the  सीनेट  .
Mechanical   repair
Maintenance , repair , and operations ( MRO ) or maintenance , repair , and overhaul involves fixing any sort of mechanical , plumbing or electrical device should it become out of order  or टूटा ( ज्ञात as मरम्मत ,  unscheduled or casualty maintenance ) .
It also includes performing routine actions which  रखना the यंत्र in working अनुक्रम  ( known as scheduled maintenance ) or prevent trouble from arising ( preventive maintenance ) .
MRO may be defined as , `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or restoring  an item  in or to a state in which it can perform its required function .
The actions include the combination of all technical and corresponding  प्रशासनिक , managerial  , and supervision actions . ''
MRO operations can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the customer , i.e . a service is being offered , or whether  the उत्पाद is खरीदा  by the reprocessing organisation and sold to any customer wishing to make the purchase ( Guadette , 2002 ) .
In the former case it may  be a backshop आपरेशन  within a larger organisation or smaller operation .
The former of these represents a  बंद  loop supply chain and usually has the scope of maintenance , repair or of the product .
The latter of  the categorisations  is an open loop supply chain and is typified by refurbishment and remanufacture .
The main characteristic of the closed loop system is that the demand for a product is matched with the supply of a  प्रयुक्त उत्पाद .
Neglecting asset write-offs and exceptional activities the total  जनसांख्यिकी of the उत्पाद  between the customer and the service provider remains constant .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) , is the elder son of Charles , Prince of Wales , and Diana , Princess of Wales , and third-eldest  पोता of महारानी  Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line of succession , behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom ,  कनाडा  , Australia , New Zealand , Jamaica , Barbados , The Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was educated at four schools in the United Kingdom  और प्राप्त  a degree from the University of St Andrews .
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile , Belize , Tanzania  , and  Kenya where he has lived and holidayed several times .
Prince William has also taken   Kiswahili studies at universities in Kenya and Tanzania .
He  थी commissioned  as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and , two years later , earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred to the Royal Air Force , was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter  उड़ती  training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force .
In 2010 , he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on to RAF Valley on No . 22 Squadron performing co-pilot duties on board a Sea King  ढूंढें और बचाव हेलीकाप्टर  .
Prince William married his longtime girlfriend , Catherine Middleton ,  on 29  April 2011 at Westminster Abbey .
Hours prior to his wedding , Prince William was created Duke of Cambridge , Earl of Strathearn , and Baron  carrickfergus  .
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July 28 , 1990 ) , better known by his stage name Soulja Boy Tell 'Em , or simply Soulja Boy , is an American rapper , record  निर्माता  , actor , and entrepreneur .
In September 2007 , his single `` Crank That ( Soulja Boy ) ``   reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 .
The single was initially self-published on the internet , and it later became a  number-one  hit in the United States for seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007 .
On August 17 Way was listed at # 18 on the   Forbes list of Hip-Hop Cash Kings of 2010 earning $ 7 million for that year .
Way has currently released three studio albums and one independent album : his debut studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was  certified  platinum by the RIAA .
However , his next two albums , iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) did not match the commercial success of his debut , the latter only selling 100,000 copies , despite the success of several singles across both albums , such as `` Kiss Me Thru the Phone `` and `` Turn My Swag On `` (  iSouljaBoyTellem ) and ``  Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ) .
This was mainly due to negotiation  problems with  Interscope Records which meant a limited amount of records were made available to the public .
As of 2011 , Way has confirmed he is working  on his  fourth studio album , entitled USA DRE , which will be released in 2013 .
The electron transport chain in the mitochondrion is the site of oxidative   phosphorylation in eukaryotes .
The NADH and succinate generated in the citric acid   cycle are oxidized , providing energy to power ATP synthase .
photosynthetic इलेक्ट्रॉन हस्तांतरण कड़ी of the thylakoid झिल्ली .
An electron transport chain ( ETC ) couples electron transfer between an electron donor ( such as NADH ) and an electron acceptor ( such as O2 ) with the transfer of H+ ions ( protons ) across  a  membrane .
The resulting  electrochemical  proton gradient is used to generate chemical energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) .
Electron   transport chains are the cellular mechanisms used for extracting energy from sunlight in photosynthesis and also from redox reactions , such as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ) .
in chloroplasts , लाइट ड्राइव the परिवर्तन of जल to ऑक्सीजन और nadP+ to nadph साथ ट्रांसफ़र of H+ ions आरपार हरितलवक झिल्लियों  .
In mitochondria , it is  the परिवर्तन  of oxygen to water , NADH to NAD+ and succinate to fumarate that are required to generate the proton gradient .
Electron transport chains are major sites of premature electron leakage to oxygen , generating superoxide and potentially resulting  in increased oxidative तनाव  .
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip , Ryzolt , Ultracet , Ultram in the USA , Ralivia , Zytram XL Durella { CR-100/200 mg } in Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat  मॉडरेट to  moderately severe pain .
the ड्रग रै a चौड़ी दायरा of अनुप्रयोग , सहित उपचार of आमवातीय गठिया , बेचैन टाँगे सिंड्रोम , मोटर neurone बीमारी और लुपस  .
It  थी शुभारम्भ और  marketed as Tramal by the German pharmaceutical company Grünenthal GmbH in 1977 .
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist that also induces serotonin release and  inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine  .
Tramadol is metabolized to O-desmethyltramadol , a significantly more potent   μ-opioid agonist .
Tramadol and its major metabolite ( s ) are  विशिष्ट  from other more potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors .
Bernard Lawrence `` Bernie '' Madoff ( ; born April 29 , 1938 )   is an American former stockbroker , investment advisor , financier , and white collar criminal .
He is the former   non-executive Chairman of the NASDAQ stock market , and the admitted operator of a Ponzi scheme that is considered to be the largest financial fraud in U.S. history .
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm Bernard  L. madoff निवेश प्रतिभूति  LLC in 1960 , and was its chairman until his arrest on December 11 , 2008 .
The firm was one of the top market maker  व्यवसायों on वॉल गली , जिससे  bypassed `` specialist '' firms by directly executing orders over the counter from retail brokers .
He employed at the  firm his  brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and Chief Compliance Officer ; Peter has since been sentenced to 10 years in prison .
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's rules and compliance  अधिकारी और attorney  , and his sons Andrew and Mark ( Mark committed suicide by hanging exactly two years after his father 's arrest ) .
On December 10 , 2008 , Madoff 's sons told authorities that their father had confessed to them that the asset management unit of his firm was  a massive Ponzi  scheme , and quoted him as describing it as `` one big lie . ''
The following day , FBI agents arrested Madoff and charged him with   one count of securities fraud .
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had previously conducted  investigations  into Madoff 's business practices , but did not uncover the massive fraud .
In March 2009 , Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies and admitted to turning his wealth   management business into a massive Ponzi scheme that defrauded thousands of investors of billions of dollars .
Madoff said he began  the पेन्शन  scheme in the early 1990s .
However , federal investigators believe the fraud began as early as the  1970s , और those  charged with recovering the missing money believe the investment operation may never have been legitimate .
The amount missing from  क्लाएंट  accounts , including fabricated gains , was almost $ 65 billion .
The court-appointed trustee estimated   actual losses to investors of $ 18 billion .
On June 29 , 2009  , he थी  sentenced to 150 years in prison , the maximum allowed .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also  ज्ञात as secretaries दिन or एडमिन दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक देशों to recognize the कार्य of secretaries , प्रशासनिक assistants , receptionists , और अन्य प्रशासनिक support पेशेवर .
In North  अमेरिका  , it is celebrated on the Wednesday of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ) .
In France it is celebrated  on  the third Thursday in April ( April 18 in 2013 ) .
In Australia it is celebrated on the first   Friday in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal board , generally of a public administrative agency , which has powers and procedures resembling   those of a court of law or judge , and which is obligated to objectively determine facts and draw conclusions from them so as to provide the basis of an official action .
Such actions are able to remedy a situation or impose legal penalties , and may affect the legal rights , duties  or privileges of  specific parties .
स्मारक  of Tycho Brahe and Johannes Kepler in Prague
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624 October 1601 ) , born Tyge Ottesen Brahe , was a Danish nobleman known for his accurate and comprehensive  astronomical and  planetary observations .
He was born in Scania   , then part of Denmark , now part of modern-day Sweden .
Tycho was well known in his lifetime as an astronomer and  कीमियागर  .
In his De nova stella ( On the new star ) of 1573 , he refuted the Aristotelian belief in  an अपरिवर्तनशील  celestial realm .
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars , '' ( stellae novae , now known as supernovae ) in particular   that of 1572 , lacked the parallax expected in sub-lunar phenomena , and were therefore not `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously believed , but were above the atmosphere and moon .
Using similar measurements he showed that comets were also not atmospheric phenomena , as previously thought , and must   pass through the supposedly `` immutable '' celestial spheres .
As an astronomer , Tycho worked to combine what he saw as the geometrical benefits of the Copernican system with the philosophical benefits of the Ptolemaic system  into उसके अपना मॉडल of  the universe , the Tychonic system .
Furthermore , he was the  पिछला of  the major naked eye astronomers , working without telescopes for his observations .
Tycho Brahe was granted an estate on the island of Hven and the funding to build the Uraniborg , an early research institute , where he built large astronomical instruments and took many  careful measurements , and  later Stjerneborg , underground , when he discovered that his instruments in the former were not sufficiently steady .
On the island ( on which he demonstrated autocratic character and behavior  toward the निवासियों )  he founded manufactories such as paper-making to provide material for printing his results .
After disagreements with the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597 , he was invited by the Bohemian king and  पावन रोमन सम्राट rudolph ii to प्राग , जहाँ he became the आधिकारिक  imperial astronomer .
He built the new observatory at Benátky   nad Jizerou .
Here , from 1600 until his death in 1601 , he was assisted by Johannes Kepler who later used Tycho 's astronomical  आंकड़ा  to develop Kepler 's laws of planetary motion .
Guro District (  guro-gu ) is a ज़िला of सियोल , दक्षिण कोरियाई , जिससे  was separated from Yeongdeungpo District on April 1 , 1980 .
Located in the southwestern part of the city , where besides Yangcheon District  and Geumcheon District Guro  District has an important position as a transport link which contains railroads , land routes from the rest of Seoul to the south of the country .
The Gyeongbu and  gyeongin  railway lines connect Seoul to Busan and Incheon .
In addition , Seoul Metropolitan Subway lines 1 , 2 , and 7 , and major highways   intersect in Guro District .
The name Guro   originates from the legend that nine ( ) old men ( Korean : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the district .
A  डिजिटल औद्योगिक  complex is located in Guro District .
The Guro Digital  औद्योगिक जटिल , जिससे निभाई a अग्रणी औद्योगिक भूमिका मुख्यतः साथ वस्त्र निर्माण , dressmaking और अन्य labour-intensive उद्योग in 1967 , रै महरूम rapidly बदला into an it औद्योगिक जटिल .
This complex played a pivotal role in the economic growth of the South Korea 's development era , referred to as the `` Miracle on the Han River `` , and also contributed 10 percent of national export in  the 1970s  .
Twenty-one percent of the total area of Guro District is a restricted zone to be used as a greenbelt with the only  arboretum  in Seoul .
The zone is  बदलना into a जीवंत ज़िला  as large labour-intensive factories are moving from the area and the council is developing what it terms its four zones .
An `` e-government `` system based on  this  hosted the international e-participation forum on February 7–9 , 2007 , with the participation of more than thirty-seven countries .
The forum was launched with the theme `` Promoting Democracy and Regional Development '' and twenty-five mayors including André Santini ( Issy-les-Moulineaux , France  ) , Kevin Foy (  Chapel Hill , US ) , Apirak Kosayothin ( Bangkok , Thailand ) , Uvais Mohamed Emthiyas ( Colombo , Sri Lanka ) , and world experts such as Dr William H. Dutton ( Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford , UK ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere , Finland ) participated in the forum .
The Guro Declaration , adopted during the forum , aims to set up a portal site for e-government development and to establish a concrete project in order to bridge the  डिजिटल divide  among the world 's cities .
This practice has been recognised for providing a new  महत्वपूर्ण कदम in  the development of e-democracy .
The e-participation forum was a key factor for Guro to play the leading role in bridging the digital divide among cities , to provide I.T . enterprises located in Guro Digital Industrial Complex the  opportunity to launch into  the international market , to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy .
The international e-participation forum on February  7–9 ,  2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan , wanton , or wuntun in transcription from Cantonese ; Mandarin : húndùn ) is a type of dumpling commonly found in a number of   Chinese cuisines .
Many people were  शामिल  in the invention of radio as we now know it .
Several possible methods  of बेतार  communication were considered , including inductive and capacitive induction and transmission through the ground , however the method used for radio today exclusively involves the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves .
After early speculation on the subject , experimental work on the connection between electricity and magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans Christian Ørsted and continued with the work of André-Marie Ampère , Joseph Henry , and  माइकल  Faraday .
These investigations culminated in the complete theory of electromagnetism  विकसित by जेम्स  Clerk Maxwell .
इस सिद्धान्त वर्णित the सैद्धांतिक आधार of the propagation of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक लहरें .
After Maxwell 's theory was published many people experimented with wireless communication , some intentionally  using मैक्सवेल  's theory some not .
It is considered likely that the first intentional transmission of a signal by means of electromagnetic waves was  performed by दाउद एडवर्ड  Hughes around 1880 , although this was considered to be induction at the time .
The first systematic and unequivocal transmission of EM waves was performed by Heinrich Rudolf Hertz and described in  papers  published in 1887 and 1890 .
Hertz  famously  considered these results as being of little practical value .
After Hertz 's work many people were involved in the development of components and  सिद्धान्त शामिल साथ  the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves .
Others , notably Guglielmo Marconi  ,  were concerned with practical improvements and the commercial application of radio to wireless telegraphy .
Later on Reginald A. Fessenden became the first to send an audio signal by  means of  electromagnetic waves .
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a deficiency of  विटामिन c , जिससे is जरूरी  for the synthesis of collagen in humans .
The chemical name for vitamin C , ascorbic acid , is derived from the Latin name of scurvy , scorbutus , which  भी provides the क्रियाशील  scorbutic ( `` of , characterized by or having to do with scurvy '' ) .
Scurvy often presents itself initially as symptoms of malaise and lethargy , followed by formation of spots on the skin  , स्पंजी मसूड़ों ,  and bleeding from the mucous membranes .
Spots are most abundant on the  thighs and legs , and a  person with the ailment looks pale , feels depressed , and is partially immobilized .
As scurvy advances , there   can be open , suppurating wounds , loss of teeth , jaundice , fever , neuropathy and death .
Scurvy was at one time common among sailors , pirates and others aboard ships at sea longer than perishable fruits and  सब्जियां could be भंडारित  ( subsisting instead only on cured and salted meats and dried grains ) and by soldiers similarly deprived of these foods for extended periods .
It was described by   Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c . 380 BC ) , and herbal cures for scurvy have been known in many native cultures since prehistory .
Scurvy was one of the limiting factors of marine travel , often killing large numbers of the passengers and crew on  long-distance voyages  .
This became a significant issue in Europe  from the beginning of  the modern era in the Age of Discovery in the 15th century , continuing to play a significant role through World War I in the 20th century .
While today scurvy is known to be caused  by a nutritional  deficiency , until the isolation of vitamin C and direct evidence of its link to scurvy in 1932 , numerous theories and treatments were proposed , often on little or no experimental data .
This inconsistency is attributed to the lack  of विटामिन c as a पृथक  concept , an inability to reliably link different foods ( notably present in fresh citrus , watercress , and organ meat ) to scurvy .
An additional concept required to understand scurvy was the degradation of vitamin C by exposure to air and copper and other transition metal salts such as those of iron ,  यूँ बदलना the कड़ी of भोजन  to scurvy over time .
Treatment by fresh food , particularly citrus fruit  , थी periodically  implemented , as it had been since antiquity .
However until the 1930s ,  उपचार थी असंगत  , with many ineffective treatments used into the 20th century .
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy , James Lind who first proved it could be treated with  citrus फल in प्रयोग  he described in his 1753 book , A Treatise of the Scurvy , though his advice was not implemented by the Royal Navy for several decades .
In infants , scurvy is sometimes referred to as Barlow   's disease , named after Sir Thomas Barlow , a British physician who described it .
However , Barlow 's disease may also refer to mitral valve  prolapse  .
Other eponyms for scurvy include Moeller 's disease and  cheadle 's बीमारी  .
Scurvy does not occur in most  पशु  because they can synthesize their own vitamin C .
However , humans and other higher primates ( the simians - monkeys and apes - and tarsiers ) , guinea pigs , most or all bats , and some species of birds and fish lack an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase )   necessary for such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet .
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues , with particularly high concentrations occurring in citrus fruits ( oranges , lemons , limes ,  grapefruits ) , टमाटर , आलू  , cabbages , and green peppers .
Iron is a chemical element with  the  symbol Fe ( from ) and atomic number 26 .
It  is a मेटल  in the first transition series .
It is the most common element ( by mass )  forming the ग्रह  Earth as a whole , forming much of Earth 's outer and inner core .
It is the fourth most  आम  element in the Earth 's crust .
Iron 's very common presence in rocky planets like Earth is due to its abundant production as a result of fusion in high-mass stars , where the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most common  isotope of iron ) is the  last nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic .
This causes radioactive nickel to become the last element to be produced before collapse of a supernova leads to the explosive events that  scatter इस precursor radionuclide  of iron abundantly into space .
Like other  समूह 8 तत्व , आयरन  exists in a wide range of oxidation states , −2 to +6 , although +2 and +3 are the most common .
Elemental iron occurs in meteoroids and other low oxygen  environments  , but is reactive to oxygen and water .
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray , but oxidize in normal air to give hydrated  आयरन आक्साइड  , commonly known as rust .
Unlike many other metals which form passivating  ऑक्साइड परतों  , iron oxides occupy more volume than iron metal , and thus iron oxides flake off and expose fresh surfaces for corrosion .
Iron metal has been used since ancient times , though copper alloys , which have lower melting temperatures , were used first  in  history .
Pure iron is soft ( softer than aluminium ) , but is unobtainable by  smelting  .
The material is significantly hardened and strengthened by impurities from  the  smelting process , such as carbon .
A certain proportion of carbon ( between 0.002 %  और  2.1 % ) produces steel , which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron .
Crude iron metal is produced in blast  furnaces , जहाँ  ore is reduced by coke to pig iron , which has a high carbon content .
Further refinement with oxygen reduces the carbon content to the correct   proportion to make steel .
Steels and low carbon iron alloys   with other metals ( alloy steels ) are by far the most common metals in industrial use , due to their great range of desirable properties and the abundance of iron .
Iron chemical compounds , which include ferrous and  ferric यौगिकों  , have many uses .
Iron oxide mixed with aluminium powder can be ignited to create a  thermite reaction ,  used in welding and purifying ores .
It forms binary compounds with the halogens   and the chalcogens .
Among its organometallic compounds is ferrocene , the first  सैंडविच  compound discovered .
Iron plays an important role  in जीवविज्ञान  , forming complexes with molecular oxygen in hemoglobin and myoglobin ; these two compounds are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates .
Iron is  also the metal  used at the active site of many important redox enzymes dealing with cellular respiration and oxidation and reduction in plants and animals .
The  ब्लू क्रॉस ब्लू शील्ड  Association ( BCBSA ) is a federation of 38 separate health insurance organizations and companies in the United States .
Combined , they directly or indirectly provide  स्वास्थ्य  insurance to over 99 million Americans .
The history of Blue Cross dates back to 1929 , while the history of Blue Shield  dates  to 1939 .
The Blue Cross Association dates back to 1960 , while its  ब्लू शील्ड  counterpart was created in 1948 .
The two organizations merged in 1982 , forming the  वर्तमान  association .
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American , Australian , New Zealand , Canadian , Singaporean , Hong Kong , South African and Jamaican English ; as a crisp in British English and Hiberno-English , and as either a chip or wafer in Indian English )  is a पतला टुकड़ा  of potato that is deep fried or baked until crunchy .
आलू  chips are commonly served as an appetizer , side dish , or snack .
The basic chips are cooked and salted  ;  additional varieties are manufactured using various flavorings and ingredients including seasonings , herbs , spices , cheeses , and artificial additives .
`` Crisps '' , however , may also refer to many different types of savory snack products sold  in the संयुक्त किंगडम और आयरलैंड , कुछ बना  from potato , but may also be made from maize , tapioca or other cereals .
An example of these kinds of savory snacks is Monster   Munch .
Potato chips are a predominant part of the snack food market in English-speaking countries and  numerous other Western  nations .
The global potato chip market generated total revenues of US $ 16.4  अरब  in 2005 .
This  accounted  for 35.5 % of the total savory snacks market in that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ) .
Henry Clay , Sr. ( April 12 , 1777 – June 29 , 1852 ) was a lawyer , politician and skilled orator who  represented केंटकी in दोनो the सीनेट  and in the House of Representatives .
He served three different terms as Speaker of the United States House of  प्रतिनिधि  and was also Secretary of State from 1825 to 1829 .
He lost his  अभियान  for president in 1824 , 1832 and 1844 .
Clay was a dominant   figure in both the First and Second Party systems .
As a leading war hawk in 1812 , he  favored  war with Britain and played a significant role in leading the nation to war in the War of 1812 .
In 1824 he ran for president  और  lost , but threw his electoral votes to John Quincy Adams , who made him secretary of state as the Jacksonians denounced what they considered a `` corrupt bargain . ''
he भागा और खोया again in 1832 और 1844 as the प्रत्याशी of the whig पार्टी , जिससे he संस्थापित और प्रायः वर्चस्व  .
Clay was the foremost proponent of the American System , fighting for an increase in tariffs to foster industry in the United States , the use of   federal funding to build and maintain infrastructure , and a strong national bank .
He opposed the   annexation of Texas , fearing it would inject the slavery issue into politics .
Clay also opposed the  mexican-american  War and the `` Manifest Destiny `` policy of Democrats , which cost him votes in the close 1844 election .
Dubbed the `` Great Pacificator  , ''  Clay brokered important compromises during the Nullification Crisis and on the slavery issue .
as भाग of the `` ग्रेट triumvirate `` or `` अमर तिकड़ी , '' साथ साथ उसके सहयोगियों डेनियल वेबस्टर और जॉन C. calhoun , he थी इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in formulating the मिसौरी सुलह of 1820 और the  Compromise of 1850 .
He was viewed as the primary  प्रतिनिधि of पश्चिमी रूचि  in this group , and was given the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star . ''
A plantation owner , Clay held slaves during his lifetime   but freed them in his Will .
Abraham Lincoln , the Whig leader in Illinois , was a great admirer of Clay , saying he was `` my ideal of  a ग्रेट man  . ''
Lincoln wholeheartedly supported  मिट्टी 's आर्थिक  programs .
In 1957 , a Senate Committee  चयनित मिट्टी as एक of the  five greatest U.S . Senators , along with Daniel Webster , John C. Calhoun , Robert La Follette , and Robert Taft .
BJ 's Wholesale Club , Inc. , commonly referred  to बस as bj 's , is a  membership-only warehouse club chain operating on the United States East Coast , as well as in the state of Ohio .
The company is ranked # 232 on Fortune magazine 's 2010 listing of America 's  500  largest public corporations .
the जादूगर of oz , ज्ञात दौरान उसके शासनकाल as the ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली oz , is the epithet of ऑस्कर zoroaster phadrig इसहाक़ नॉर्मन henkel emmannuel ambroise diggs , a fictional अक्षर in the जमीन of oz , निर्मित by  American author L. Frank Baum .
The character was further popularized by the classic  1939  movie , wherein his full name is not mentioned .
Kristinia Jamie DeBarge ( ; born March 8 , 1990 ) is an  अमरीकी  singer , songwriter , dancer and actress .
She first appeared on national television in 2003 as a contestant on the American  आइडल spin-off  , American Juniors .
In 2009 , DeBarge signed a contract with the Island Records department Sodapop , releasing her debut album Exposed in July of   the same year .
The first single , `` Goodbye `` ,   reached the top 20 in the US and Canada .
The lead single ( `` Cry Wolf '' ) from her untitled sophomore  album  was released on September 27 , 2012 .
The Hawaii Warriors football team  represents  the University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa in NCAA Division I FBS college football .
The team is coached by Norm  चाउ  .
It was part of  the  Western Athletic Conference until July 2012 , when the team joined the Mountain West Conference .
The Hawaii Warriors were the third non-AQ team to play in a BCS bowl game ; losing to Georgia 41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January  1 , 2008  in New Orleans , Louisiana .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 , 1939April 1 , 1984 ) , born Marvin Pentz Gay , Jr. , was an American singer-songwriter  and musician  .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the Grapevine `` and duet recordings with Mary Wells and Tammi Terrell , later earning the titles `` Prince  of  Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became  among the पहला कलाकारों  in Motown to break away from the reins of its production company .
Gaye 's  बाद रिकार्डिंग  influenced several R & B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
following a काल in यूरोपीय  under a tax exile in the early 1980s , Gaye released the 1982 Grammy Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album .
Since his death  in 1984 , gaye  has been posthumously honored by many institutions , including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
Location of  chernobyl  nuclear power plant
The abandoned city of   Pripyat with Chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned housing  ब्लॉक  in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster ( , Chornobylska Katastrofa –  Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic  nuclear accident that occurred on 26 April 1986 at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ) , which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive particles into the atmosphere , which  स्प्रेड  over much of the western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant  accident  in history , and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a  वृहद प्रलय ultimately  involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles .
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has been disputed , and long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being   accounted for .
Mrs.   Claus says goodbye to her husband as he sets off on his journey in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa Claus , the Christmas gift-bringer in North American and European  क्रिसमस परंपरा  .
She is known for making cookies with the elves  और तैयारी  toys with her husband Santa Claus .
Her first name is a  रहस्य , हालांकि  she has been referred to as Mary , Jessica , Layla , Annette , Heidi , or Martha .
hijackthis  ( also HiJackThis or HJT ) is an open source enumerating tool for Microsoft Windows originally created by Merijn Bellekom , and later sold to Trend Micro .
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking methods , rather than relying on a  डेटाबेस  of known spyware .
It scans a user 's computer quickly , and displays browser hijacking locations ,   showing what entries are there .
HijackThis is used primarily for diagnosis of browser hijacking  , as uninformed use  of its removal facilities can cause significant software damage to a computer .
HijackThis does not remove or  detect  spyware ; it lists most common locations where browser hijacking activity can occur .
Browser hijacking can cause malware to be installed  on a  computer .
On February 16 , 2012 , Trend  Micro  released the HijackThis source code as open source and it is now available on the SourceForge site .
Saddle Creek Records is an American record label based in Omaha ,  नेब्रास्का  .
प्रारंभ as a कॉलेज क्लास प्रोजेक्ट  on entrepreneurship , the label was founded by Mike Mogis and Justin Oberst in 1993 ( as Lumberjack Records ) .
Mogis soon turned over his  भूमिका in  the company to Robb Nansel .
The label is named after Saddle Creek Road , a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha , and the beginnings of a scene whose members included Conor Oberst ( then a solo artist , currently of Bright Eyes , Conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band , Desaparecidos and Monsters of Folk ) , Tim Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia ,  फिलहाल of कर्सिव और the  Good Life ) , and others .
collectively , वे यहूद ज्ञात unofficially as the `` creekers '' .
Saddle Creek first appeared in print on a show flyer , offering to ``  खर्च an संध्या साथ काठी क्रीक  '' ( later to be the title of the label 's DVD . )
Saddle Creek became an incorporated  एंटिटी as  a result of a class project on entrepreneurship .
Distribution is handled by the Alternative Distribution Alliance , which is under the Warner Music Group  छतरियाँ  .
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the flagship label of a style of music called  `` The Omaha  Sound `` , characterized by a slight country twang .
This is  increasingly inaccurate , हालांकि ,  with the rise of more electronic sounds such as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles .
the eclectic ध्वनि of काठी क्रीक 's disparate सदस्य bands is somewhat समझाया by उनके इतिहास ; a क्रमांक of the असली सदस्यों of the लेबल attended ग्रेड  school together .
A `` sister label '' , of sorts  , to  Saddle Creek is Team Love , started by Conor Oberst in 2004 .
the लेबल खोली बाहें to उनके पहला bands नहीं आधारित in ओमाहा in 2001 साथ रिलीज by अभी it 's ओवरहेड और sorry परिचय  Dresden .
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed , including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley , Eric Bachmann ( formerly leader of Archers of  loaf और कुटिल  Fingers from North Carolina ) , Georgie James ( Washington D.C. ) , Two Gallants ( San Francisco ) , and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ) .
In 2005 , Spend an Evening with Saddle Creek , a   documentary detailing the first ten years of the record label 's history , was released .
The DVD features extensive interviews  with the  Saddle Creek bands , archival footage , and rare live performances .
On June 8 , 2007 , the label opened their own music venue named Slowdown ( after the group  Slowdown  Virginia ) , located in downtown Omaha , Nebraska .
The following is a list of  एपीसोड  for the television show Full House .
In total ,  वहीँ यहूद 192  episodes filmed for the show over the course of its eight seasons , from 1987 to 1995 .
Full House is a situation comedy which chronicles a widowed father 's struggles of raising his three  यंग  daughters and the lives that they have touched .
The patriarch of the family , Danny ( Bob Saget ) , invites his brother-in-law Jesse ( John Stamos ) and his best  friend Joey ( Dave Coulier ) , to  help raise his children ( Candace Cameron , Jodie Sweetin , and Mary Kate/Ashley Olsen ) , after his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver .
After episodes 88 and 89 , Jesse marries   Becky ( Lori Loughlin ) , and they move into the attic .
Then , after episodes 104 and 105 , Becky  और जेसी  have twin boys named Nicky and Alex ( Daniel and Kevin Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ) .
The series ends with episode 192 , `` Michelle Rides Again Part 2 '' , when Michelle loses her memory and the family tries  to  restore it .
सूचना  of Stamp Act of 1765 in Newspaper
American newspapers reacted to the Stamp Act with  गुस्सा और  predictions of the demise of journalism .
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in American Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 George III , c. 12 ) imposed a direct tax by the British Parliament  specifically on the colonies of अंग्रेजों अमेरिका , और  it required that many printed materials in the colonies be produced on stamped paper produced in London , carrying an embossed revenue stamp .
These printed materials were legal documents , magazines , newspapers and many other types of paper used  throughout  the colonies .
Like  पिछला कर , the स्टैम्प कर था to be सशुल्क in मान्य अंग्रेजों करेंसी , नहीं in औपनिवेशिक पेपर धन .
The purpose of the tax  थी  to help pay for troops stationed in North America after the British victory in the Seven Years ' War .
The British government felt that the colonies were the primary beneficiaries of this military presence , and  चाहिए अदा at तनिक a portion  of the expense .
The Stamp Act met great  प्रतिरोध  in the colonies .
The colonies sent no representatives to Parliament , and therefore had no influence over what taxes were  उठाया  , how they were levied , or how they would be spent .
Many colonists considered it a violation of their rights as Englishmen to be taxed without their consent —consent that  तभी  the colonial legislatures could grant .
औपनिवेशिक सभाओं भेजा याचिकाएं और विरोध .
the स्टैम्प अधिनियम कॉंग्रेस आयोजित in नई यॉर्क नगर , reflecting the पहला significant संयुक्त औपनिवेशिक जवाब to कोई अंग्रेजों माप , भी petitioned पार्लियामेंट और the किंग .
Local protest groups , led by colonial merchants and landowners , established connections through correspondence that  created a loose coalition  that extended from New England to Georgia .
विरोध और demonstrations initiated by the बेटे of स्वतंत्रता प्रायः turned हिंसक और destructive as the masses became शामिल .
Very soon all stamp tax  वितरकों  were intimidated into resigning their commissions , and the tax was never effectively collected .
Opposition to the Stamp  अधिनियम थी नहीं सीमित  to the colonies .
British merchants and manufacturers , whose exports to the colonies were threatened by colonial  आर्थिक समस्याएं exacerbated by  the tax , also pressured Parliament .
The Act was repealed on March 18 , 1766 as a matter of expedience , but Parliament affirmed its  power to legislate for  the colonies “in all cases whatsoever” by also passing the Declaratory Act .
वहीँ followed  a series of new taxes and regulations , likewise opposed by the colonists .
The episode played a major role  in  defining the grievances and enabling the organized colonial resistance that led to the American Revolution in 1775 .
pt-105  underway .
PT boats were a variety  of torpedo-armed  fast attack craft used by the United States Navy in World War II to attack larger surface ships .
`` PT '' is the US hull  वर्गीकरण  symbol for `` Patrol Torpedo '' .
The PT boat squadrons were  nicknamed `` the  mosquito fleet '' .
The Japanese called them ``  शैतान नौकाएँ  '' .
The original pre– World War I torpedo boats were designed with `` displacement  ''  hulls .
They  विस्थापित up to 300 टन  and the top speed was .
The PT boats   used in World War II were built using the planing -type hull form developed for racing boats .
They were much  छोटी  ( 30–75 tons ) and faster ( 35–40 knots ) .
Both types  यहूद designed to स्ट्राइक at larger warships साथ torpedoes , using अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची गति to मिलेंगी बंद , और छोटी आकार to avoid होने spotted और hit by gunfire .
वे  were much less expensive than large warships .
PT boats were much faster , smaller , and cheaper than conventional ( displacement hull   ) vessels .
During World War II , American PT  नौकाएँ सगाई दुश्मन  destroyers and numerous other surface craft , ranging from small boats to large supply ships .
PT boats also operated   as gunboats against enemy small craft , such as armored barges used by the Japanese forces for inter-island transport .
Good Friday is a religious holiday observed primarily by Christians commemorating the  crucifixion of यीशु  Christ and his death at Calvary .
The holiday is observed during Holy Week as part of the Paschal Triduum on the Friday preceding Easter Sunday , and may coincide with  the यहूदी observance  of Passover .
It is also known as Holy Friday , Great Friday , Black Friday , or Easter Friday , though the latter properly refers  to  the Friday in Easter week .
Based on the details of the Canonical gospels , the Crucifixion of Jesus was most likely to have been on a  शुक्रवार ( the  day before the Sabbath ) ( ) .
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33   , by two different groups , and originally as AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the differences between the Biblical and Julian calendars and the crescent of the moon .
A third method , using a completely different astronomical approach  आधारित on a चंद्र crucifixion  darkness and eclipse model ( consistent with Apostle Peter 's reference to a `` moon of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ) , points to Friday , 3 April AD 33 .
The Great Basin is the largest area of endorheic watersheds  in  North America .
It is noted for both its arid conditions and its Basin and range topography that varies from the North American low point at Badwater Basin to the highest point of the contiguous United States , less than away  at  the summit of Mount Whitney .
The region spans several physiographic divisions , biomes /  ecoregions  , and deserts .
Raster  may  refer to:
Raster graphics ,  आलेखीय  techniques using arrays of pixel values
रास्टर  graphics editor , a computer program
Raster scan , the pattern of image readout , transmission  , storage ,  and reconstruction in television and computer images
Rasterisation , or rasterization , conversion of a vector image to a raster   image
Raster image processor ,  or  RIP , a component of a printing system that performs rasterisation
Raster interrupt , a   computer interrupt signal
रास्टर  to vector , an image conversion process
रास्टर  bar , an effect used in computer demos
raster-noton  , a record label
Rastrum , a device used in medieval music manuscripts to draw staff  लाइनों
Raster Document Object , a file  स्वरूप
Beowulf ( ; Old English : ) is a legendary Geatish hero and later turned  king  in the epic poem named after him , one of the oldest surviving pieces of literature in the English language .
The attack on Pearl Harbor  ( called Hawaii Operation  or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese Navy against the United States naval base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From the standpoint  of  the defenders , the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time .
the आक्रमण  was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the Empire of Japan was planning in Southeast Asia against overseas territories of the United Kingdom , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The base was  attacked by  353 Japanese fighters , bombers and torpedo planes in two waves , launched from six aircraft carriers .
All eight U.S. Navy battleships were damaged , with  चार  being sunk .
Two of these were later raised , and with the remaining four repaired , six battleships returned to service  बाद  in the war .
The Japanese also sank   or damaged three cruisers , three destroyers , an anti-aircraft training ship , and one minelayer .
188 U.S. aircraft were  नष्ट  ; 2,402 Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important base  installations  such as the power station , shipyard , maintenance , and fuel and torpedo storage facilities , as well as the submarine piers and headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget  submarines  lost , and 65 servicemen killed or wounded .
One  जापानी  sailor was captured .
The attack came as a  profound शॉक to the अमरीकी लोगों और  led directly to the American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters .
The following day ( December 8 ) , the  संयुक्त राज्य  declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for non-interventionism ,  जिससे था  been strong , disappeared .
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced   by active alliance .
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to declare war on the U.S. on December  11 ,  which was reciprocated by the U.S. the same day .
There were numerous historical precedents for unannounced military  कार्रवाई by जापानी  .
However , the lack of any formal warning , particularly while negotiations were still  जाहिर  ongoing , led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south United States highway that runs for in the  पहाड़  - Northern Plains states of the United States .
The southern terminus of the route is at the United States-Mexico border in El Paso ,  टेक्सास , connecting साथ मैक्सिकन  Federal Highway 45 .
The northern terminus is at the United States-Canada border in Fortuna  ,  North Dakota , where the route continues north as Saskatchewan Highway 35 .
In both the United States and Saskatchewan , Canada the route  is ज्ञात as the  CanAm Highway .
Sections of US 85 are considered part  of the  Theodore Roosevelt Expressway .
The United  States  presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 5 , 1968 .
The Republican nominee , former Vice-President Richard Nixon , won the election over the Democratic  nominee ,  incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a campaign that promised  to restore  law and order to the nation 's cities , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it permanently disrupted the  New Deal Coalition  that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide , the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican  निर्वाचित  for the first time in twelve years .
It was a wrenching national experience , conducted during a year of violence that included the  हत्या of सिविल अधिकारों नेता मार्टिन लूथर किंग  , Jr. , and subsequent race riots across the nation , the assasination of Democratic presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy , widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses , and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
The election featured the strongest third party effort since 1912 by former Alabama Governor George   Wallace , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end school segregation , he carried  the Deep  South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
This was the last election in which New York had the most votes  in  the electoral college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census , California gained the most electoral  मत  and has remained the most populous state since then .
This is the latest election where a  अध्यक्षीय  ticket won without carrying the vice presidential candidate 's home state .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications , processes and CPU usage , commit charge and memory information , network activity and statistics , logged-in  उपयोक्ता , और प्रणाली सेवाएं ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft  for Windows , 3rd party software is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly , e.g , `` Process Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities , processor affinity   , forcibly terminate processes , and shut down , restart , hibernate or log off from Windows .
Windows  कार्य मैनेजर  was introduced with Windows NT 4.0 .
Previous versions of Windows NT included the Task List application , which had far fewer   features .
The task  सूची थी  capable of listing currently running processes and killing them , or creating a new process .
In Windows XP only , a Shutdown menu is also present that  allows access to Standby ,  Hibernate , Turn off , Restart , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x , Windows 95 , Windows 98 ) had a program known  as  tasks to display the programs currently running .
This  संचिका  was executed by running the taskman.exe file from the C : \Windows directory .
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used  in the आधुनिक  Japanese writing system along with hiragana ( ひらがな , ) , katakana ( カタカナ , ) , Hindu-Arabic numerals , and the occasional use of the Latin alphabet .
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the Chinese characters literally means `` Han characters '' and is written using   the same characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ) .
John R Williams ( May 4 , 1782 – October 20 , 1854 ) was an American soldier , merchant , and politician who is most well known   for serving as the first mayor of Detroit , Michigan .
In total , he served as  डेट्रॉयट 's  mayor for five other terms .
He  भी थी  a brigadier general in the United States Army during the Black Hawk War .
A simple dry  चुम्बकीय पोर्टेबल  compass .
A smartphone that can be used as a  कम्पास क्युकी  of the magnetometer inside .
An iPhone that can be used as a geological compass because of the 3-axis teslameter and 3-axis accelerometer  अंदर  it
A military compass that was  प्रयुक्त दौरान संसार  War I .
A compass is a navigational instrument that shows directions in a  फ़्रेम of सन्दर्भ  that is stationary relative to the surface of the earth .
The frame of reference defines the four cardinal directions ( or points ) – north , south  , ईस्ट , और वेस्ट  .
Intermediate directions are  भी पारिभाषित  .
Usually , a diagram called a compass rose , which shows the directions ( with their names usually abbreviated to  आद्याक्षर )  , is marked on the compass .
When the compass is in use , the rose is aligned with the real directions in the frame of reference  , so ,  for example , the `` N '' mark on the rose really points to the north .
Frequently , in  जोड to  the rose or sometimes instead of it , angle markings in degrees are shown on the compass .
North corresponds to zero degrees , and the angles increase clockwise , so east is 90 degrees , south  is  180 , and west is 270 .
These numbers allow the compass to show azimuths or bearings , which are commonly stated  in this  notation .
The magnetic compass was first invented as a device for divination as early as the Chinese Han  राजवंश (  Since about 206 BC ) .
The compass was used in  सोंग  Dynasty China by the military for navigational orienteering by 1040-1044 , and was used for maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117 .
The use of a compass is recorded in Western Europe between   1187 and 1202 , and in Persia in 1232 .
the शुष्क कम्पास थी invented in यूरोपीय around 1300 .
This was supplanted  in  the early 20th century by the liquid-filled magnetic compass .
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire ( Quechua : Tawantinsuyu ) was the largest  साम्राज्य  in pre-Columbian America .
The administrative , political and  सैन्य  center of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru .
The Inca  सभ्यता arose  from the highlands of Peru sometime in the early 13th century .
From 1438 to 1533 , the Incas used a variety of methods , from conquest to peaceful assimilation , to incorporate a large  portion of पश्चिमी दक्षिण अमेरिका , केन्द्रित on the andean पहाड़ सीमाएँ , सहित , besides  Peru , large parts of modern Ecuador , western and south central Bolivia , northwest Argentina , north and central Chile , and southern Colombia into a state comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia .
The  आधिकारिक  language of the empire was Quechua , although hundreds of local languages and dialects of Quechua were spoken .
The Inca referred to their empire as Tawantinsuyu which can be  अनूदित as the चार  Regions or The Four United Provinces .
There were many local forms of  इबादत , सबसे of  them concerning local sacred `` Huacas `` , but the Inca leadership encouraged the worship of Inti —the sun god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults such as that of Pachamama .
The Incas considered their King , the Sapa Inca , to be the   `` child of the sun . ''
The kidneys are organs that serve several essential  नियामक भूमिकाएँ in  most animals , including vertebrates and some invertebrates .
They are essential  in the urinary प्रणाली और भी serve homeostatic कृत्यों ऐसे as the विनियमन of इलेक्ट्रोलाइट्स , मेंटेनेंस of acid–base संतुलन , और विनियमन of रक्त दबाव ( via maintaining नमक और जल संतुलन ) .
They serve the body as a natural filter  of the रक्त , और हटाएँ  wastes which are diverted to the urinary bladder .
In producing urine , the kidneys excrete wastes such as urea and ammonium , and they are also responsible for the reabsorption of water  ,  glucose , and amino acids .
The kidneys also produce hormones  सहित  calcitriol , erythropoietin , and the enzyme renin .
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum , the  गुर्दे प्राप्त  blood from the paired renal arteries , and drain into the paired renal veins .
Each kidney excretes urine into  a  ureter , itself a paired structure that empties into the urinary bladder .
Renal physiology is the study of kidney function , while nephrology is the  चिकित्सा specialty चिंतित  with kidney diseases .
Diseases of the kidney are diverse , but individuals with  गुर्दा बीमारी अक्सर  display characteristic clinical features .
Common clinical conditions involving the kidney include the nephritic and  nephrotic syndromes , renal  cysts , acute kidney injury , chronic kidney disease , urinary tract infection , nephrolithiasis , and urinary tract obstruction .
Various cancers of the  गुर्दा मौजूद  ; the most common adult renal cancer is renal cell carcinoma .
Cancers , cysts , and some  अन्य  renal conditions can be managed with removal of the kidney , or nephrectomy .
When renal   function , measured by glomerular filtration rate , is persistently poor , dialysis and kidney transplantation may be treatment options .
Although they are not  severely  harmful , kidney stones can be painful and a nuisance .
The removal of kidney stones involves ultrasound treatment to break up the stones into smaller pieces , which are then   passed through the urinary tract .
One common symptom of kidney stones is a sharp pain in the medial/lateral  खण्ड  of the lower back .
Lockton   Companies Inc. is the world 's largest privately held insurance brokerage firm , providing insurance , risk management and employee benefits solutions .
In addition to its Kansas City ,  मिसौरी  headquarters , Lockton operates 60 locations in 17 countries .
Lockton is currently home to  अधिक  than 4,450 Associates worldwide .
The company was founded by Jack Lockton in 1966 and has since become  the  world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm .
Lockton serves a wide array of  उद्योग  with services that include risk management , casualty , surety , professional indemnity and more .
For 46  सालो , lockton posted असाधारण सशुल्क विकास , साथ वैश्विक revenues reaching $ 915 लाख in फिस्कल 2012 .
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s Employee Benefit’s team works  closely with  insurance carriers and administrators to create comprehensive and integrated benefits strategies for clients .
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including compliance , executive benefits  , स्वास्थ्य  and welfare , health risk solutions , retirement and more .
Lockton Affinity : Lockton Affinity , an affiliate of Lockton Companies , meets the insurance needs of affinity  groups , franchises ,  professional organizations , and associations of all sizes .
Lockton Affinity offers a variety of  बीमे उत्पाद  options and programs .
Products include : General Liability , Professional Liability , Property , Workers Compensation , Directors & Officers Liability , Commercial Auto , Specialty Coverage , Excess ,  स्वास्थ्य योजनाएँ और अधिक  .
Lockton International : Lockton International operates offices in the UK and Ireland , as well as offices  throughout  Asia and Latin America .
In Europe , Lockton International is a partner in EOS RISQ , Europe’s leading insurance broking and risk management  कंसल्टेंसी  .
EOS RISQ is an  equity-based यूरोपीय साझेदारी  of major independent insurance brokers with over 3,500 employees based in more than 30 countries in Europe .
Lockton   International provides specialized solutions for personal lines , SME’s and major multi-national clients .
White  चॉकलेट  is a chocolate derivative .
It commonly consists of cocoa butter , sugar , milk solids and salt , and is characterized  by  a pale yellow or ivory appearance .
The  melting  point of cocoa butter , its primary cocoa bean component , is high enough to keep white chocolate solid at room temperature .
Donald Leon `` Don '' Blankenship ( born March 14 , 1950 ) was Chairman and CEO of Massey Energy Co. , the sixth largest coal company (  by 2008 उत्पादन  ) in the United States .
He served in those roles from November 30  ,  2000 , until December 31 , 2010 .
Blankenship is an active financial backer of the Republican party and participant in local and state politics , especially  in his  home state of West Virginia .
He has frequently  बोला  out publicly about politics , the environment , unions , and coal production .
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings show   Blankenship was paid $ 17.8 million in 2009 , the highest in the coal industry .
His 2009 pay represents a $ 6.8 million raise over 2008 and almost double his compensation  पैकेज  in 2007 .
Blankenship also received a deferred compensation package valued at $ 27.2 million  in  2009 .
On December 3 , 2010 , Blankenship announced that he was retiring as CEO at the end of the year , and would  be  succeeded by Massey President Baxter F. Phillips Jr .
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions used in English  to  describe a dog 's bark .
Bow Wow may  भी  refer to:
Bow Wow ( band ) , a  जापानी  hard rock/heavy metal band
Bow Wow ( rapper ) , an American  rapper  and actor
Bow Wow Sauce , a sauce developed in the Cotswolds region of  इंग्लैण्ड
Bow Wow Wow , a UK   new wave band
`` धनुष wow '' , a  song by The Fiery Furnaces from their 2003 album Gallowsbird 's Bark
`` Bow Wow Blues ( My Mama Treat Me like a Dog ) ''  , a  song composed in the 1920s by Cliff Friend & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat . negligentia , from neglegere , to neglect , literally `` not to pick up something '' ) is a failure to exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in  जैसे  circumstances .
the  area of tort law known as negligence involves harm caused by carelessness , not intentional harm .
According to Jay M. Feinman  of the rutgers  University School of Law ;
`` The core idea  of लापरवाही is  that people should exercise reasonable care when they act by taking account of the potential harm that they might foreseeably cause harm to other people . ''
`` those who go personally or bring property where they know that they or it may come into collision with the persons or property of others have  by law a duty cast  upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision . ''
Fletcher  v  Rylands ( [ 1866 ] LR 1 Ex 265 )
Through civil litigation , if an injured person proves that another person  acted negligently  to cause their injury , they can recover damages to compensate for their harm .
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the injured plaintiff to compensation for harm to  their  body , property , mental well-being , financial status , or intimate relationships .
However , because negligence cases are very fact-specific , this general definition does  not fully  explain the concept of when the law will require one person to compensate another for losses caused by accidental injury .
Further , the law of negligence at common law is only one aspect of the law  of  liability .
Although resulting  क्षतिपूर्ति जरूर  be proven in order to recover compensation in a negligence action , the nature and extent of those damages are not the primary focus of negligence cases .
a melanocytic nevus  ( also known as `` Nevocytic nevus '' ) is a type of lesion that contains nevus cells ( a type of melanocyte ) .
Some sources  equate the  term mole with `` melanocytic nevus '' .
Other  स्त्रोत  reserve the term `` mole '' for other purposes .
The majority of moles appear during the first two decades   of a person’s life , while about one in every 100 babies is born with moles .
acquired औज़ार हैं a रूप of benign फुलाव , जबकि जन्मजात औज़ार , or जन्मजात nevi , हैं माना a नाबालिग malformation or hamartoma और may be at a उच्चतर रिस्क लिये melanoma .
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a pigmented growth on the skin , formed  ज़्यादातर  of a type of cell known as a melanocyte .
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting agent  ,  melanin , is responsible for their dark color .
Moles are a member of the family of skin lesions known as   nevi .
The comprehensive  metabolic फलक  , or chemical screen , ( CMP ; CPT code 80053 ) is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool .
The CMP provides a rough check of kidney function , liver function , and electrolyte and fluid balance , but it is far from  पूर्ण  .
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a result of false positives   and thus the CBC may need to be repeated for a patient ( or replaced with a more specific test ) .
The CMP is an expanded version of the basic  metabolic फलक ( bmp  ) , which does not include liver tests .
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as part of a routine physical  परिक्षा , or may  be used to monitor a patient with a chronic disease , such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension .
Previous names for the panel of   tests have been Chem 12 , Chemistry panel , Chemistry screen , SMA 12 , SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - Computer ) .
The  tests are  performed on machines based on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957 .
प्राकृतिक गैस निष्कर्षण by देशों in घन मीटर प्रति साल  .
Natural gas is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of methane , but commonly including varying  amounts of अन्य hydrocarbons  , carbon dioxide , nitrogen , and hydrogen sulfide .
Natural gas is an energy source often used for  हीटिंग , कुकिंग ,  and electricity generation .
It is also used as fuel for  वाहनों और  as a chemical feedstock in the manufacture of plastics and other commercially important organic chemicals .
Natural gas is found in deep   underground natural rock formations or associated with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal beds and as methane clathrates .
Petroleum is also another resource  मिला in निकटता  to and with natural gas .
Most natural gas was created over time by two mechanisms : biogenic and  thermogenic  .
Biogenic gas is created  by  methanogenic organisms in marshes , bogs , landfills , and shallow sediments .
Deeper in the earth , at greater temperature and pressure , thermogenic gas is created from buried organic material   .
Before natural gas can be used as a fuel , it must undergo processing to remove impurities , including water , to meet the specifications of  marketable प्राकृतिक  gas .
The by-products of processing include ethane , propane , butanes , pentanes , and higher molecular weight  hydrocarbons ,  hydrogen sulfide ( which may be converted into pure sulfur ) , carbon dioxide , water vapor , and sometimes helium and nitrogen .
Natural gas is often informally referred to simply as gas , especially when compared  to अन्य उर्जा  sources such as oil or coal .
This page is  परिचय  the Imagination Movers band .
For information about the  TV  show starring the band , see Imagination Movers ( TV series ) .
Imagination Movers is a  बैंड formed in  New Orleans , Louisiana , in 2003 .
The lineup includes  समृद्ध कॉलिन्स  , Scott Durbin , Dave Poche , and Scott `` Smitty '' Smith .
Members of the group  यहूद longtime  friends and neighbors .
The group started as a television/music concept which was pitched to  लोकल  PBS affiliates in New Orleans .
wlae-tv  was the first to take an interest in the group and later introduced them to Beth Courtney , the President & Chief Executive Officer at Louisiana Public Broadcasting .
Soon after , LPB began  airing  one-minute videos produced by the Imagination Movers themselves .
The Movers built a sizable regional following by  सेटिंग शैक्षणिक  songs for kids to melodies and rhythms that adults appreciate as well .
They sold more  than 100,000 नक़ल of उनके  self-produced CDs and DVDs .
Their three indie CDs : `` Good Ideas , '' `` Calling All Movers , '' and `` Eight Feet '' along with their grass roots DVD `` Stir  It Up '' have ,  combined , won fourteen national awards , from such groups as the National Association of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice .
In early 2005 , Disney took notice , and initiated negotiations to  add the मूवर्स to  the company 's roster .
These were interrupted in August when the  flood  protection designed and built by the Army Corps of Engineers to protect New Orleans failed .
the resulting floodwater claimed the बैंड 's दफ्तर , as खूब as the घरों of कॉलिन्स , durbin और poche – लकिन the सौदे थी हस्ताक्षरित in the वसन्त of 2006 .
In 2008 , Walt Disney Records introduced the Imagination Movers ' music to  the स्वदेश साथ  the release of the Movers ' first nationally-released CD , `` Juice Box Heroes . ''
In September 2008 , a 30-minute show featuring the group began airing on the Disney Channel 's preschool programming block known as Playhouse Disney , and currently airs on Playhouse  डिज़्नी 's बदलना , डिज़्नी जूनियर  .
The Movers write  और perform सब  the songs on their show .
moreover , the कल्पना मूवर्स have प्राप्त नाजुक kudos लिये उनके सजीव कॉन्सर्ट प्रदर्शन  .
in अक्तूबर 2009 , the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रारंभ the `` सजीव इससे the विचार गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट दौरे 2009 '' .
Traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 their live performances include lots of their favorite songs and dancing , as well as video  दिखावे of गोदाम  Mouse .
Beginning  in early-february 2011 और wrapping up in लेट may 2011 , the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रस्तुत उनके `` in a बिग गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट दौरे , '' playing अधिक than 100 shows in 50+ शहरों आरपार उत्तर अमेरिका .
From March to October 2012 , the  कल्पना  Movers toured North America on their post-Disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour .
The show maintained several elements of the original TV concept , such as an on-stage `` idea emergency '' and several sets from their older  कैटलॉग ; however , साथ the प्रस्थान of वेन्डी calio वापस to उसके  native Hawaii , the character `` Nina '' , along with her musical numbers , is not present .
The tour promotes the Imagination Movers ' new album/DVD release ,  ``  Rock-O-Matic '' , which features all new music from the band .
The album itself is produced independently of Disney and has a notably more  वयस्क , समकालीन  rock-and-roll sound , though still very appropriate for children .
अनेक प्रदर्शन तिथियाँ यहूद स्थानांतरित to बाद in 2012 to लाभ इससे the increased एक्सपोज़र of the कल्पना मूवर्स tv दिखाएँ अभी playing रोज़ on डिज़्नी जूनियर  .
the platypus ( ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी ऑस्ट्रेलिया , सहित  Tasmania .
Together with the four species of echidna , it is one of the five extant species of monotremes ,   the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth .
It is the sole living representative of its family ( Ornithorhynchidae ) and genus ( Ornithorhynchus ) , though a number of related species have been found  in the  fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed  ,  otter -footed mammal baffled European naturalists when they first encountered it , with some considering it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of the few venomous mammals , the male platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom capable of causing   severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and iconic symbol of  Australia ; it  has appeared as a mascot at national events and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
The platypus is the  एनिमल  emblem of the state of New South Wales .
Until the early  20th century  , it was hunted for its fur , but it is now protected throughout its range .
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects  of  pollution , it is not under any immediate threat .
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras ( ,  from chupar ``  to suck '' and cabra `` goat '' , literally `` goat sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas .
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto Rico ( where these sightings   were first reported ) , Mexico , and the United States , especially in the latter 's Latin American communities .
The name comes from the animal 's reported  habit of  attacking and drinking the blood of livestock , especially goats .
Physical  descriptions  of the creature vary .
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto  रीको , और have चूंकि महरूम  reported as far north as Maine , and as far south as Chile , and even being spotted outside the Americas in countries like Russia and The Philippines .
It is supposedly a heavy  प्राणी ,  the size of a small bear , with a row of spines reaching from the neck to the base of the tail .
Sighting reports of the Chupacabra have been disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking evidence , while  most  reports in northern Mexico and the southern United States have been verified as canids afflicted by mange .
biologists और वन्यजीव प्रबन्धन  officials view the chupacabra as a contemporary legend .
The North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) is an agreement signed by Canada , Mexico , and the United  राज्य  , creating a trilateral trade bloc in North America .
The agreement came into   force on January 1 , 1994 .
It superseded the Canada–United States Free Trade Agreement between the  u.S. , कनाडा , और  Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation ( NAAEC  ) और the उत्तर अमरीकी  Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ) .
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind that expresses satisfaction with the thermal  पर्यावरण और  is assessed by subjective evaluation ( ANSI / ASHRAE Standard 55 ) .
Maintaining this standard of thermal comfort for occupants of buildings or other enclosures is one of the important  लक्ष्य of hvac ( हीटिंग , वेंटिलेशन , और एयर कंडीशनिंग  ) design engineers .
The Predicted Mean Vote ( PMV ) model stands among the most  पहचाना थर्मल सुकून  models .
It was developed  using सिद्धान्त of ऊष्मा  balance and experimental data collected in a controlled climate chamber under steady state conditions .
Because the PMV model was derived from data collected in  a नियंत्रित जलवायु  , it is not suitable for applications in naturally ventilated spaces which often have high levels of air movement .
This shortcoming motivated the development of a family of empirical statistical   models of thermal comfort in naturally ventilated spaces known as adaptive models .
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting with their environment , and  controlling उनके थर्मल सुकून by अर्थात्  of clothing or window-opening and closing .
This is in contrast to thermal comfort in sealed  इमारतें  , in which occupants experience the environment passively .
Thermal  सुकून is प्रभावित by ऊष्मा conduction , संवहन , विकिरण , और evaporative ऊष्मा घाटा .
थर्मल  comfort is maintained when the heat generated by human metabolism is allowed to dissipate , thus maintaining thermal equilibrium with the surroundings .
It has  been  long recognized that the sensation of feeling hot or cold is not just dependent on air temperature alone .
Thermal comfort calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 55 can be  freely  performed with the CBE Thermal Comfort Tool for ASHRAE-55 .
Durante degli Alighieri , simply referred   to as Dante ( , ; ; c. 1265–1321 ) , was a major Italian poet of the Middle Ages .
His Divine Comedy , originally called ' and later called ' by Boccaccio , is widely considered the greatest  literary  work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature .
in इटली he is ज्ञात as ' ( `` the परम् कवि '' ) or बस ' .
He ,  petrarch  and Boccaccio are also known as `` the three fountains '' or `` the three crowns '' .
Dante is also called the `` Father of the Italian  भाषा  '' .
मुख्यालय  ( Kobe , Japan )
( ) is a tire and rubber company based in   Japan .
It is part of the Sumitomo   Group .
The  कम्पनी traces इसके origins  to 1909 , when the Sumitomo Group made an investment in Dunlop Japan , the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the British company Dunlop Rubber .
Over the years Sumitomo and Dunlop developed a close business relationship , and in 1963 the Sumitomo Group acquired   control of Dunlop Japan and renamed it Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd .
In 1985 , when Dunlop Rubber was taken over by BTR plc , the company acquired the automobile tire assets of Dunlop , including the right to use the Dunlop brand on  ऑटोमोबाइल टायर  .
the अधिग्रहण किया नहीं शामिल the us और ऑस्ट्रेलियाई व्यवसायों , जिससे यहूद separately स्वामित्व , लकिन in 1986 sumitomo भी acquired the dunlop टायर निगम of the us इससे इसके प्रबन्धन  .
In 1997 , Sumitomo formed a joint venture with Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company , by which  goodyear और sumitomo  agreed to manufacture tires for each other 's markets , including Dunlop branded tires .
As part of the agreement , Goodyear acquired 75 % interests in Dunlop Tyres , the  UK company which  Sumitomo had formed , and in Dunlop Tire Corporation .
Goodyear and Sumitomo also made investments  in  each other .
Today , the company makes  a  wide range of rubber based products , including automobile tires , golf balls and tennis balls .
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware integrated development environments ( IDE ) developed by Microsoft that are lightweight versions of the   Microsoft Visual Studio product line .
Express Editions   were conceived beginning with Visual Studio 2005 .
The idea of Express editions is to provide streamlined , easy-to-use and  easy-to-learn ides लिये उपयोक्ता अन्य than  professional software developers , such as hobbyists and students .
The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems of Europe stretching approximately across eight Alpine countries from Austria and Slovenia in the east ,  स्विट्ज़रलैंड  , Liechtenstein , Germany , France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south .
The mountains were formed  over  hundreds of millions of years as the African and Eurasian tectonic plates collided .
Extreme shortening caused  by the इवेंट  resulted in marine sedimentary rocks rising by thrusting and folding into high mountain peaks such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn .
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian   border , and at is the highest mountain in the Alps .
The Alpine region area contains many  peaks  higher than , known as the `` four-thousanders `` .
The altitude and size of the range affects the climate in Europe ; in the mountains precipitation levels vary greatly and  climatic  conditions consist of distinct zones .
Wildlife such as ibex live in the higher  चोटियों to elevations of , और पौधे  such as Edelweiss grow in rocky areas in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations .
Evidence of human habitation in the Alps goes back to the  paleolithic era  .
A mummified man , determined  to be  5,000 years old , was discovered on a glacier at the Austrian–Italian border in 1991 .
By the 6th century BC , the Celtic La  tène  culture was well established .
Hannibal may have crossed the Alps with a herd of elephants , and the Romans had settlements  in the region  .
In 1800  नेपोलियन  crossed one of the mountain passes with an army of 40,000 .
The 18th and 19th centuries saw an influx of  naturalists , लेखक , और कलाकारों , in  particular the Romantics , followed by the golden age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks .
In World War II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine countries  , with the  exception of Switzerland and Liechtenstein ; Adolf Hitler kept a base of operation in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war .
The Alpine  प्रदेश  has a strong cultural identity .
The traditional culture of farming , cheesemaking , and woodworking still exists in Alpine villages ,  हालांकि the पर्यटक उद्योग began to grow जल्दी in the 20th सदी  and expanded greatly after World War II to become the dominant industry by the end of the century .
the शीत ओलम्पिक खेल have महरूम hosted in the स्विस , फ्रेंच , इतालवी , आस्ट्रिया और जर्मनी  Alps .
At  उपस्थित the प्रदेश is घर to 14 लाख लोगों और रै 120 लाख सालाना विज़िटर .
Lois Patrice Griffin ( née Pewterschmidt ) is a character from  the एनिमेटेड  television series Family Guy .
She is voiced by writer Alex Borstein and first appeared on television , along with the rest of the family in the  15-minute  short on December 20 , 1998 .
Lois was created and designed by series  निर्माता सेठ macfarlane  .
MacFarlane was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry and Steve , a short made by MacFarlane which  प्रदर्शित a  middle-aged character named Larry and an intellectual dog , Steve .
After the pilot was given the green light , the Griffin family appeared on the episode  ``  Death Has a Shadow `` .
Lois is the mother of the Griffin  परिवार .
With her husband Peter , she has had three  children  : Meg , Chris , and Stewie .
लोइस is प्रायः portrayed as a stereotypical टेलीविज़न माँ , despite उसके admitting to होने a ड्रग उपयोक्ता , a recovering मेथ नशेड़ी  kleptomaniac .
Lois has also had several affairs , one of which allegedly  resulted  in the conception of Meg .
She has appeared in other media relating to Family  guy—including  a video game , commercials and books—and inspired an entire line of merchandise .
Lois 's distinctive New York accent originated from a character in a stage show that Alex Borstein had performed in , which was largely inspired by a relative  who  grew up on Long Island , New York .
Family transmission  of  Basque language ( Basque as initial language )
Percentage of  विद्यार्थी पंजीकृत  in Basque language schools ( 2000–2005 ) .
स्थान of the basque-language प्रांतों भीतर स्पेन और फ़्रांस
Basque ( endonym : , ) is the ancestral language of the Basque people , who inhabit the Basque  देश  , a region spanning an area in northeastern Spain and southwestern France .
It is spoken by 27 % of Basques in all territories (  714,136  out of 2,648,998 ) .
Of these , 663,035 live in the Spanish part of the Basque  देश और the बाकी  51,100 live in the French part .
In academic discussions of the distribution of Basque in Spain and France , it is customary to refer to three ancient provinces in  फ़्रांस  and four Spanish provinces .
Native speakers are concentrated in a contiguous area including parts of the Spanish autonomous communities  of the  Basque Country and Navarre and in the western half of the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques .
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic Basque Country incorporating the traditional Spanish provinces of  biscay , gipuzkoa  , and Álava , which retain their existence as politico-administrative divisions .
These provinces and many areas of  नावारा  are heavily populated by ethnic Basques , but Basque was , at least until the 1990s , not spoken as a native language in most of Álava , western parts of Biscay and central and southern areas of Navarre , either because it had been replaced by Spanish along the centuries , in some areas , or because it had never been spoken there , in other areas .
In southwestern France , the ancient Basque-populated provinces were Labourd , Lower  Navarre ,  and Soule .
They and other regions were consolidated into a single département in 1790 under the name  basses-pyrénées , a नाम जिससे  persisted until 1970 .
A standardized form of the Basque language , called  euskara batua , थी  developed by the Basque Language Academy in the late 1960s .
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque language could be used—and easily understood by all Basque speakers—in formal situations ( education ,  द्रव्यमान मीडिया  , literature ) , and this is its main use today .
The role of this standard Basque language depends  on the  linguistic educational model of each region and each school .
In most areas of the Spanish Basque  देश , the शैक्षणिक  Model D , where all subjects are taught in Basque , except `` Spanish language and literature '' ( which is taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model .
In France , the Basque language school Seaska and the association for a bilingual ( Basque and French ) schooling Ikasbi meet a wide range of Basque language  शैक्षणिक needs up  to the Sixth Form , while often struggling to surmount financial and administrative constraints .
Apart from this standardized version , there are five main Basque dialects : Bizkaian , Gipuzkoan , and Upper Navarrese in Spain , and Navarrese–Lapurdian and  zuberoan  ( in France ) .
Although they take their names from the mentioned historic provinces , the dialect boundaries are not congruent with   province boundaries .
The President , Directors and Company , of the Bank of the United States , commonly  known as the  First Bank of the United States , was a central bank , chartered for a term of twenty years , by the United States Congress on February 25 , 1791 .
Establishment of the Bank was included in a three-part expansion of federal fiscal and monetary power ( along with a federal mint and excise taxes  ) championed by Alexander Hamilton , first  Secretary of the Treasury .
Hamilton believed a central bank was  जरुरी  to stabilize and improve the nation 's credit , and to improve handling of the financial business of the United States government under the newly enacted Constitution .
Officially proposed   to the first session of the First Congress in 1790 , Hamilton 's Bank faced widespread resistance from opponents of increased federal power .
Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson and James Madison led the opposition , which  claimed  that the bank was unconstitutional , and that it benefited merchants and investors at the expense of the majority of the population .
The First Bank building is now a National Historic Landmark located in  फिलाडेल्फिया ,  Pennsylvania within Independence National Historical Park .
James  वेस्ले marsters  ( born August 20 , 1962 ) is an American actor and musician .
Marsters  पहला आए to the  attention of the general public playing the popular character Spike , a platinum-blond yobbish English vampire in the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and its spin-off series , Angel , from 1997 to 2004 .
Since then , he has gone on to play other science fiction roles , such as the alien supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired series Smallville , the omnisexual time traveller Captain John  हार्ट in अंग्रेजों science-fiction  show Torchwood and terrorist Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica .
marsters appeared in a supporting भूमिका in the 2007 फिल्म p.s  .
I Love You and as the main antagonist , Piccolo , in the 2009 fantasy adventure  फिल्मी dragonball  Evolution .
He appeared as a recurring character in the first season of the revival of Hawaii 5-0   .
In molecular biology , human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is  a हार्मोन  produced by the fertilized egg after conception .
Later during pregnancy it is made by the developing placenta , and  बाद  by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
कुछ cancerous tumors उपज इस हार्मोन ; इसलिए , elevated स्तर measured जब the रोगी is नहीं गर्भवती can सीसे to a कर्कट  diagnosis .
However , it is not known whether this production is a  contributing  cause or an effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as  luteinizing हार्मोन  ( LH ) , is produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages .
, the FDA has  निषिद्ध the बिक्री of `` होम्योपैथिक ''  and over the counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter , known by her stage name Beyoncé ( ; born September 4 , 1981 )  , is an  American singer , songwriter , dancer , and actress .
Born and raised in Houston , Texas , she  performed  in singing and dancing competitions as a child before forming in 1990 a group with Kelly Rowland and LaTavia Roberson that was eventually named Destiny 's Child .
Once signed to Columbia  रिकॉर्ड  , the girls subsequently became one of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time .
The group was plagued by  internal conflict  and legal turmoil and Knowles suffered from depression that lasted for a number of years .
During the  समूह 's अंतराल  , Knowles released her debut solo album Dangerously in Love ( 2003 ) , which earned her five Grammy Awards and has sold a total of 4.9 million copies in the US alone .
It spawned Billboard number one singles `` Crazy in Love , '' considered by VH1 to be the `` Greatest Song Of the 00 's , '' and ``  baby लड़के . ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005 , Knowles 's second solo album B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the top  पाँच singles `` déjà vu ``  , `` Irreplaceable `` , and `` Beautiful Liar `` .
Her performance  in dreamgirls  ( 2006 ) earned her two Golden Globe nominations .
Knowles ' work playing Etta James in that film inspired her subsequent  एल्बम i am  ...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008  )  which spawned hits `` If I Were a Boy `` , `` Single Ladies ( Put a Ring on It ) `` , `` Halo `` , and `` Sweet Dreams `` .
The album also helped Knowles earn six  grammys in 2010 , तोड़कर the  record for most Grammy Awards won by a female artist in one night .
Her fourth album 4 ( 2011 ) deviated towards traditional R & B and became her fourth consecutive number  एक एल्बम  on the Billboard 200 .
in जनवरी 2012 , नॉलेस दिया जनम to बेटी ब्लू आइवी कार्टर , उसके पहला चाइल्ड साथ husband jay-z  .
Knowles has sold over 13 million albums in the US and 118 million records worldwide ( as well as a further  50 million  records with Destiny 's Child ) , and is one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
The Recording Industry Association of  अमेरिका ( riaa ) पहचाना  Knowles as the Top Certified Artist of the 2000s .
In 2009 , Billboard named her the Top Radio Songs Artist of the decade and ranked her the Top Female Artist and the fourth  कलाकार  of the Decade .
Beyoncé Knowles is the most nominated woman in Grammy Award history ,  receiving 17  awards ; other accolades include 12 MTV Video Music Awards , 7 Billboard Awards including a Millennium Award , and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child .
`` Angry All the Time '' is the title of a song written by Bruce Robison and first  अंकित  on his 1998 album Wrapped .
It was later covered by Tim McGraw  साथ अतिथि  vocalist Faith Hill .
Released in July 2001 , McGraw 's version was  the दूसरी सिंगल  from McGraw 's Set This Circus Down album .
The song reached Number One on the Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks ( now Hot  देश  Songs ) charts .
Dear  जॉन is a 2010 अमरीकी रोमांटिक नाटक - युद्ध फिल्मी अभिनीत अमांडा seyfried और चेनिंग टैटम .
it थी released theatrically in उत्तर अमेरिका on फ़रवरी 5  , 2010 .
The film was  निर्देशित  by Lasse Hallström , and it is an adaptation of Nicholas Sparks 's novel of the same name .
It follows the life of a  सिपाही  ( Channing Tatum ) after he falls in love with a young woman ( Amanda Seyfried ) .
They decide to  एक्सचेंज  letters to each other after he is deployed to the war .
The movie was filmed in  2009  in Charleston , South Carolina .
Despite receiving negative reviews , the film made a strong box office performance , knocking off Avatar after seven weekends in first place  और grossing a कुल of  $ 114,977,104 worldwide .
the  film was released on May 25 , 2010 on DVD and Blu-ray .
ये हैं  lists of the busiest airports in the United States .
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport is the busiest single  विमानक्षेत्र in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
However , all of the New York City metropolitan area 's airports combine to create the largest airport system in the United States , second in the world in terms of passenger traffic , and first in the world in  शर्तें of कुल  flight operations .
डोरा the  Explorer is an American animated television series created by Chris Gifford , Valerie Walsh , and Eric Weiner .
Dora the  एक्सप्लोरर became  a regular series in 2000 .
The  दिखाएँ  is carried on the Nickelodeon cable television network , including the associated Nick Jr. channel .
It  aired on  CBS until September 2006 .
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired as part of a Nick en español block on NBC Universal -owned Telemundo through September 2006 ; since April 2008 , this version  of the कार्यक्रम रै महरूम carried  on Univision as part of the Planeta U block .
Santa Fe ( ; ( Tewa : Ogha Po'oge , ) ) is  the पूंजी  of the U.S. state of New Mexico .
it is the fourth-largest नगर in the राज्य और is the सीट of  .
Santa Fe ( meaning “holy faith”  in  Spanish ) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 census .
It is the principal city of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Santa Fe  काउंटी और is भाग of the  larger Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas Combined Statistical Area .
The city’s full name when founded was La  विला रियल  de la Santa Fé de San Francisco de Asís ( “The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi” ) .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi , formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a  कार्बोनेटेड  soft drink that is produced and manufactured by PepsiCo .
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink , it was renamed as  pepsi-cola  on August 28 , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
1765  broadside
The Sons of   Liberty was a group consisting of American patriots that originated in the pre-independence North American British colonies .
The group was formed to protect the rights of the colonists and to take to the streets  विरूद्ध the कर by  the British government .
They are best known for undertaking the Boston Tea  पार्टी  in 1773 , which led to the Intolerable Acts ( an intense crackdown by the British government ) , and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots .
ओसाका  castle
is a city in the Kansai region of Japan 's main island of Honshu , a designated city under the Local Autonomy Law , the capital city of Osaka Prefecture and also the largest part of the Keihanshin metropolis , which  comprises तीन  major cities of Japan , Kyoto , Osaka and Kobe .
Located at the mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka Bay , Osaka is Japan 's third largest city by population after Tokyo ( special wards  ) और yokohama  .
Keihanshin is the second largest metropolitan area in Japan by population and one of the largest metropolitan areas highly ranked in the world , with nearly 19 million people  , और by जीडीपी the दूसरी largest क्षेत्रफल in जापानी और the  seventh largest area in the world .
Historically the commercial center   of Japan , Osaka functions as one of the command centers for the Japanese economy .
The ratio between daytime and night   time population is 141 % , the highest in Japan , highlighting its status as an economic center .
Its nighttime population  is 2.6 million , the third in the  country , but in daytime the population surges to 3.7 million , second only after Tokyo ( combining the special wards of Tokyo , which is not a single incorporated city , for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ) .
Osaka used to be referred to as the in feudal Edo period  क्युकी  it was the centre of trading for rice , creating the first modern futures exchange market in the world .
The Little Mermaid is a 1989 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney  तस्वीरें  .
Based on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen , The Little Mermaid   tells the story of a beautiful mermaid who dreams of becoming human .
Written , directed , and produced by Ron Clements and John Musker , with music by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman   , the film features the voices Jodi Benson , Christopher Daniel Barnes , Pat Carroll , Samuel E. Wright , Jason Marin , Kenneth Mars , Buddy Hacket , and Rene Auberjonois .
The 28th  फिल्मी in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड क्लासिक श्रेणी , the छोटी मरमेड थी released to थिएटर on नवम्बर 14 , 1989 to largely धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ , garnering $ 84 लाख at the बक्सा दफ्तर दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज , और $ 211 लाख in कुल आजीवन सकल .
After the success of the 1988 Disney / Amblin film Who Framed  रोजर खरगोश , the छोटी  Mermaid is given credit for breathing life back into the art of Disney animated feature films after a string of critical or commercial failures produced by Disney that dated back to the early 1970s .
It  भी चिह्नित  the start of the era known as the Disney Renaissance .
A stage adaptation of the film with a book by Doug Wright and  additional songs by Alan  Menken and new lyricist Glenn Slater opened in Denver in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10 , 2008 .
alt=close-up  photo of a metal spoon filled with a viscous , clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term for a recreational drug popular in the hip  हॉप जातियाँ  in the southern United States , originating in Houston , Texas .
Its main ingredient is  नुस्खा  -strength cough syrup containing codeine and promethazine .
Cough syrup is typically  मिश्रित साथ  ingredients such as Sprite soft drink or Mountain Dew and pieces of Jolly Rancher candy .
The purplish hue of purple drank comes from dyes in the cough  syrup  .
There are numerous slang terms for purple drank , including sizzurp , lean , syrup , drank , barre , purple  जेली  , Texas tea , and Tsikuni .
First/given , middle , and last/family/surname diagram with J. S. Bach as  उदाहरण  .
J. S. Bach shared his given name with six immediate family members and many  extended  family members .
He shared his family  नाम साथ  most family members .
A given name , in Western contexts often referred to as a first name , is a personal name that specifies and differentiates between  सदस्यों of a समूह  of individuals , especially in a family , all of whose members usually share the same family name ( surname ) .
A given name is purposefully given , usually by a child 's parents at or near   birth , in contrast to an inherited one such as a family name .
A given name is sometimes legally changed  through  a name change .
दिए  names are often used in a familiar and friendly manner in informal situations .
in  more formal situations the surname is used instead , unless it is necessary to distinguish between people with the same surname .
The idiom `` on  a  first-name basis '' ( or `` on first-name terms '' ) alludes to the familiarity of addressing another by a given name .
The western style of having both a family name ( surname ) and  a दिए नाम  is far from universal .
In many countries it is common for ordinary people to have  तभी एक नाम  ( a mononym ) .
Hydrochloric  एसिड  is a clear , colourless solution of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water .
It is a highly  क्षयकारी  , strong mineral acid with many industrial uses .
Hydrochloric acid is found naturally   in gastric acid .
Historically called muriatic acid , and spirits of salt , hydrochloric acid was produced from vitriol  (  sulfuric acid ) and common salt .
It first appeared during the Renaissance , and then it was used by chemists such as Glauber ,  प्रीस्टलि  and Davy in their scientific research .
With major production starting in the Industrial Revolution , hydrochloric acid is used in the  रासायनिक उद्योग as a रासायनिक अभिकर्मक  in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic , and MDI / TDI for polyurethane .
It has numerous smaller-scale applications , including  household  cleaning , production of gelatin and other food additives , descaling , and leather processing .
About 20 million tonnes of hydrochloric acid are  उत्पादित  annually .
गेहूं ( triticum spp . ) is a खाद्यान्न अनाज , originally इससे the levant प्रदेश of the निकट ईस्ट और ethiopian हाइलैंड्स , लकिन अभी cultivated विश्वव्यापी  .
In 2010 , world production of wheat was 651 million tons , making it the third most-produced cereal after  मक्का (  844 million tons ) and rice ( 672 million tons ) .
गेहूं थी the दूसरी  most-produced cereal in 2009 ; world production in that year was 682 million tons , after maize ( 817 million tons ) , and with rice as a close third ( 679 million tons ) .
This grain is grown on more land area than any  other  commercial food .
World trade in wheat is greater than for all other  फसलों  combined .
Globally , wheat is the leading source of vegetable protein in human food , having a higher protein content than soybeans or the other  प्रमुख cereals , मक्का  ( corn ) or rice .
in शर्तें of कुल उत्पादन tonnages प्रयुक्त लिये खाना , it is फिलहाल दूसरी to राइस as the प्रमुख इंसान खाना क्रॉप और ahead of मक्का , बाद allowing लिये मक्का 's अधिक extensive उपयोग in एनिमल फ़ीड्स  .
गेहूं थी a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर enabling the emergence of city-based समाजों at the प्रारंभ of सभ्यता क्युकी it थी एक of the पहला फसलों कि could be easily cultivated on a विशाल स्केल , और था the अतिरिक्त लाभ of yielding a कटाई कि provides  long-term storage of food .
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the  fertile crescent  , including the Babylonian and Assyrian empires .
Wheat grain is a staple food used to make flour for leavened , flat and steamed breads ,  बिस्कुट  , cookies , cakes , breakfast cereal , pasta , noodles , couscous and for fermentation to make beer , other alcoholic beverages , or biofuel .
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for livestock , and its straw can be used as a construction material for  roofing  thatch .
The whole grain can be milled to leave  बस  the endosperm for white flour .
The by-products of this are bran  और  germ .
The whole grain is a concentrated source of vitamins , minerals , and protein , while the refined grain  is  mostly starch .
मुद्रण
To publish is to make  सामग्री  available to the general public .
While specific use of the term may vary among countries , it is usually applied to text , images , or other  audio-visual  content on any traditional medium , including paper ( newspapers , magazines , catalogs , etc . ) .
The word publication means the act of publishing , and also refers to any printed   copies .
Melissa & Joey is an ABC Family original television series  अभिनीत  Melissa Joan Hart and Joey Lawrence .
It  पहला  aired on ABC Family on August 17 , 2010 .
The series follows local politician Mel Burke ( Melissa Joan Hart ) and Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence ) , whom Mel hires to  dekh बाद  her niece and nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke .
The series was renewed by ABC Family for a second season of fifteen episodes , which  began  airing on May 30 , 2012 and ended on August 29 , 2012 .
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's # 1 telecast at 8 o'clock across target audiences 18–34 ,  18–49 और  12–34 demographics .
On August  17 , 2012 , एबीसी  Family renewed Melissa & Joey for a third season , set to premiere in spring 2013 .
The Dharma wheel , often used to represent the   Noble Eightfold Path
The Noble Eightfold Path ( , ) is one of the principal teachings of the Buddha , who described it as the way leading to the cessation of suffering  ( dukkha  ) and the achievement of self-awakening .
it  is used to develop insight into the true nature of phenomena ( or reality ) and to eradicate greed , hatred , and delusion .
The Noble  eightfold पाथ is the चौथी of the  Buddha 's Four Noble Truths ; the first element of the Noble Eightfold Path is , in turn , an understanding of the Four Noble Truths .
It is also known as the Middle   Path or Middle Way .
All eight elements of the Path begin   with the word `` right '' , which translates the word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ) .
These denote completion  ,  togetherness , and coherence , and can also suggest the senses of `` perfect '' or `` ideal '' .
'Samma ' is also translated as ``  wholesome  '' , `` wise '' and `` skillful '' .
In Buddhist symbolism , the Noble Eightfold Path is often represented  by अर्थात् of the धर्मं व्हील ( dharmachakra  ) , whose eight spokes represent the eight elements of the path .
the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार लिये सोंग of the साल is an सम्मान प्रस्तुत at the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , a रस्म कि थी स्थापित in 1958 और originally पुकारा the gramophone  Awards .
Awards in several categories are distributed annually by  the नेशनल  Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States to `` honor artistic achievement , technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry , without regard to album sales or chart position . ''
Economics is the  सोशल  science that analyzes the production , distribution , and consumption of goods and services .
The term economics comes from the Ancient Greek ( ' , `` management of a household , administration '' ) from ( ' , `` house '' ) + ( ' , `` custom ''  or `` विधि  '' ) , hence `` rules of the house ( hold ) '' .
Political economy was the earlier name for  the  subject , but economists in the late 19th century suggested `` economics '' as a shorter term for `` economic science '' that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation and as similar in form to `` mathematics `` , `` ethics '' , and so forth .
A focus of the subject is how economic agents behave  or interact  and how economies work .
Consistent with this , a  प्राथमिक textbook भेद  is between microeconomics and macroeconomics .
Microeconomics examines the behavior of basic elements in the economy , including individual agents ( such as households and firms or as buyers and sellers )  और बाज़ार , और उनके  interactions .
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy and  मुद्दे affecting  it , including unemployment , inflation , economic growth , and monetary and fiscal policy .
Other broad distinctions include those between positive economics ( describing `` what is '' ) and normative economics ( advocating `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ; and between mainstream  economics ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing with the  `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ) .
Economic analysis may be applied throughout society , as in business , finance , health care ,  and government ,  but also to such diverse subjects as crime , education , the family , law , politics , religion , social institutions , war , and science .
At the turn of the 21st century , the  expanding डोमेन of  economics in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism .
An increasing number of economists have called for increased emphasis on environmental  स्थिरता  ; this area of research is known as Ecological economics .
इस is a सूची of अनुसूची iv दवाएँ अंतर्गत the नियंत्रित substances अधिनियम लिये the संयुक्त राज्य .
जरूरी  findings for drugs to be placed in this schedule:
The drug or  अन्य  substance has a low potential for abuse relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III .
The drug   or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States .
Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to  सीमित शारीरिक  dependence or psychological dependence relative to the drugs or other substances in schedule III .
The complete list  of अनुसूची  IV drugs are as follows .
The Administrative Controlled Substances Code Number for  प्रत्येक ड्रग is शामिल  .
US county household median income  2009  .
मध्य  US household income , 2001-2011
Household income is a measure  commonly प्रयुक्त  by the United States government and private institutions .
Each household is measured  by the  income of every resident over the age of 15 .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance , disability payments , child support payments received ,  नियमित rental रसीदें  , as well as any personal business , investment , or other kinds of income received routinely .
While  inflation-adjusted  ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999 , it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median household income fell from $ 51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502   in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United States , meaning households living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits , doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011  , including  2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of the household for their earnings to be considered part of the  household  's income .
As households tend to share a similar economic context , the use of household income remains  among  the most widely accepted measures of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into  खाता  in such measures may distort any analysis of fluctuations within or among the household income categories , and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible .
The  बीतने रेट is पारिभाषित  as the rate of decrease with height for an atmospheric variable .
The variable involved is temperature unless specified   otherwise .
The terminology arises from the word lapse in the sense  of a  decrease or decline .
While most often applied to Earth 's atmosphere the concept can be extended to any gravitationally supported ball  of गैस  .
Blue Mountain State is an American comedy series that premiered on Spike  on जनवरी  11 , 2010 .
The series producers include Chris Romano and Eric Falconer , and it  is उत्पादित by lionsgate  Television .
The series is about a fictional university , Blue Mountain State , and its football team , `` The Mountain Goats   . ''
It portrays certain aspects of American   university life , including football , sex , binge drinking , drugs , wild partying , and hazing .
In February 2012 ,  it थी reported  that Blue Mountain State would not be renewed for a fourth season .
In March 2013 , Ed Marinaro stated that he is working on a Blue  पहाड़ राज्य  film .
Apple Inc. , formerly  ठहराना कंप्यूटर  , Inc. , is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Cupertino , California that designs , develops , and sells consumer electronics , computer software and personal computers .
Its best-known hardware products are the Mac line of computers , the iPod music player , the iPhone smartphone , and  the ipad टैब्लेट  computer .
Its software includes the OS X and iOS operating systems , the iTunes media browser , the Safari web browser , and the iLife  और  iWork creativity and production suites .
the कम्पनी थी संस्थापित on अप्रैल 1 , 1976 , और incorporated as ठहराना कंप्यूटर , inc. on जनवरी 3 , 1977 .
the शब्द `` कंप्यूटर '' थी removed इससे इसके नाम on जनवरी 9 , 2007 , reflecting इसके shifted फ़ोकस towards उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स  after the introduction of the iPhone .
Apple is the world 's second-largest information technology company by revenue after Samsung Electronics , and the  संसार  's third-largest mobile phone maker after Samsung and Nokia .
Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired company in the United States in 2008  , and in the world  from 2008 to 2012 .
However , the company has received criticism for its contractors ' labor practices , and for  Apple  's own environmental and business practices .
, Apple maintains 394 retail stores in fourteen countries as well as the online Apple Store and iTunes  स्टोर  .
It is the  second-largest सरेआम traded निगम in  the world by market capitalization , with an estimated value of US $ 414 billion as of January 2013 .
, the company had 72,800  स्थाई  full-time employees and 3,300 temporary full-time employees worldwide .
Its worldwide  सालाना  revenue in 2012 totalled $ 156 billion .
Section 8 housing in the South  bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ) , often simply known as Section 8 , as repeatedly amended , authorizes the payment of rental housing assistance to private landlords on behalf  of  approximately 3.1 million low-income households .
It operates through several programs , the largest of which , the Housing  Choice  Voucher program , pays a large portion of the rents and utilities of about 2.1 million households .
The US Department of Housing and Urban Development manages  the  Section 8 programs .
The Housing Choice Voucher   Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental assistance , so a tenant can move from one unit of at least minimum housing quality to another .
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the purchase of a home , with over $ 17 billion going towards such  purchases प्रत्येक साल  ( from ncsha.org analysis ) .
The maximum allowed  वाउचर  is $ 2200 a month .
Section 8 also authorizes a variety of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs , under which the owner reserves some or all of the units in a building for low-income tenants , in return for a Federal government guarantee to make up the  अंतर  between the tenant 's contribution and the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the government .
A tenant who leaves a subsidized project will lose access to the project-based  रियायत  .
The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and United States Department of Veterans Affairs have a special Section 8 program called VASH ( Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing ) , or HUD-VASH , which gives out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable   US armed forces veterans .
Restaurants categorized by  प्रकार और सूचना  about these different types .
U.S. Federal Reserve  टीप  in the mid-1990s
The  इतिहास  of the United States dollar covers more than 200 years .
