A partly submerged glacier cave  on perito  Moreno Glacier .
The  बर्फ मुखाग्र is  approximately 60 m high
Ice formations in the Titlis  हिमानी गुफा
A glacier cave is a  गुफा formed भीतर  the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves are often called ice caves , but this term is properly used to describe bedrock caves  कि contain year-round बर्फ  .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the  परिधि of a वृत्त or  rotation along a circular path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular rate of  रोटेशन ( और निरंतर गति )  , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation around a fixed axis of a  three-dimensional देह involves  circular motion of its parts .
The equations of motion  describe the गति of the बीच  of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height , a stone  जिससे is tied to a रस्सी और is होने swung in वृत्त , a car turning through  a curve in a race track , an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the object 's velocity vector is  constantly बदलना दिशा , the चलती ऑब्जेक्ट  is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotation .
Without  इस त्वरण  , the object would move in a straight line , according to Newton 's laws of motion .
अपोलो पंथ is a fictional अक्षर इससे  the Rocky films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World .
He was played by Carl  weathers .
Creed had multiple nicknames , including The Master of Disaster , The King of Sting , The Dancing Destroyer , The Prince of Punch , The One and Only and The Count  of मोंटे  Fisto .
Urban legend  राज्य कि अपोलो पंथ 's नाम is a wordplay on the रसूलों  ' Creed , a statement of belief used in Christian churches .
All of Apollo 's championship fights were scheduled  लिये the 15 गोलाकार अलहदा .
Championship fights did not convert from 15 rounds  to 12  rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed was the first man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy ``  the यंत्र '' gunn ( टॉमी मॉरिसन ) in the  5th installment ) although normally he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature  रंगों यहूद ब्लैक और  gold—colors he used in the latest movie .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually means a judge appointed by the President of the United States and  पुष्टि by the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट pursuant to the नियुक्ति  Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the  परम् अदालत of the संयुक्त राज्य , जिनकी अस्तित्व और कुछ पहलुओं of जिनकी क्षेत्राधिकार हैं परे  the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal  न्यायधीश ; ऐसे स्थितियाँ शामिल the मुख्य  Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges  वर्णित यूँ दूर हैं referred to sometimes as `` आलेख  III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In  जोड , न्यायाधीशों of the अदालत  of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in  the संघीय न्यायालयों  , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
See  आलेख  I and Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol  designed by beretta in इटली  .
Production began in late  1984 , solely in the beretta u.s.A. सुविधा  in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , whose  उत्पादन ended in 1985  .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of life  बीमे कि builds a नकदी  value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of  पृथक खाते , समान to परस्पर निधि , और the चुनाव  of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts whose values vary—they vary because they are invested in  भण्डार and/or बंध बाज़ार  .
The 'universal ' component  in the नाम refers to the  flexibility the owner has in making premium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to  maximums पारिभाषित by the आतंरिक आय कोड लिये  life insurance .
इस लचीलापन is in कंट्रास्ट to पूरे जीवन बीमे कि रै फिक्स्ड प्रीमियम भुगतान  that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium Loan feature , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
परिवर्तनीय सार्वभौमिक जीवन is a प्रकार of स्थाई जीवन बीमे  , because the death benefit will be paid if the insured dies any time as long as there is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs , unlike whole  जीवन , वहीँ is no endowment आयु ( the आयु  at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet  another कुंजी लाभ  of VUL over Whole Life .
With a typical whole life policy , the death benefit is limited to the face amount specified in the policy , and at endowment age , the face  राशि is सब कि is सशुल्क आउट .
Thus with  either मौत or endowment , the बीमे  company keeps any cash value built up over the years .
However , some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and  the मौत  benefit over time .
If investments made in the separate  खाते out-perform the सामान्य  account of the insurance company , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no  endowment आयु , continually increasing  death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy , this could result in higher value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the classic wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors while  स्टिल transferring the ऊष्मा  to interior buildings .
a mound of  Girl Scout cookies .
This  mound contains  74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout Cookies are cookies sold by Girl  स्काउट of the यूएसए ( gsusa )  as one of its major fundraisers for local Scout units .
Members of the GSUSA have been selling  कुकीज़ चूंकि 1917 to  raise funds .
लड़कियों जो participate can  earn prizes for their efforts .
There are also unit incentives if  the ईकाई as a पूरे करता  well .
As of 2007 , sales were estimated at about 200  लाख  boxes per year .
विश्वविद्यालयों  Hall
Purdue University  , स्तिथ in वेस्ट lafayette , इंडियाना , is the  flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly , taking advantage of the Morrill Act , accepted a donation of land and money from  lafayette बिजनेसमैन जॉन purdue to स्थापित a कॉलेज of विज्ञान , प्रौद्योगिकी ,  and agriculture in his name .
The first classes  यहूद आयोजित on सितंबर 16 , 1874  , with six instructors and 39 students .
Today , Purdue is a member of the Big Ten  सम्मेलन , और is  a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the fourth largest  अंतरराष्ट्रीय छात्र जनसांख्यिकी of कोई विश्वविद्यालयों in the  United States .
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 211 major  क्षेत्रों of पढ़ाई , और is खूब ज्ञात लिये इसके  competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been  अत्यधिक influential in अमेरिका 's इतिहास of विमानन , having स्थापित  the first college credit offered in flight training , the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation , and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's  विमानन प्रौद्योगिकी  program remains one of the most competitive aviation-specific programs in the world .
In the mid-20th  सदी , purdue 's विमानन  program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , including Gus Grissom ( one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on  the  moon ) , and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous  गाँठ ( ) is a पद कि  loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
क्युकी an epidermoid गाँठ originates in the epidermis  and a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles , by definition , neither type of cyst is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities  is नहीं sebum , लकिन keratin  .
Furthermore , under the microscope  neither एंटिटी contains वसामय  glands .
In practice ,  however , the  terms are often used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and are  ज्ञात as steatocystomas  or , if multiple , as steatocystoma multiplex .
आधुनिक  pointe shoes .
The  किनारे of the टो pad , जिससे  is inserted between the foot and toe box for cushioning , can be seen on the right foot .
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers when  performing pointe कार्य .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have  विकसित to enable नर्तक to नृत्य  en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers  may  wear them for unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies such as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured  in a किस्में of रंगों , सबसे  commonly in shades of light pink .
This tablespoon has a capacity of  परिचय 15 ml  .
measuring  Spoons
In the US and parts of Canada , a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for  खाने इससे a कटोरी  .
In the UK , Europe and most  राष्ट्रमंडल देशों  , a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving .
in देशों जहाँ a tablespoon  is a serving spoon , the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the  क्षमता of एक tablespoon  , is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is  abbreviated as t ,  tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The capacity of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated  by विधि और is विषय  to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 mL ;  the क्षमता of an वास्तविक tablespoon ( डाइनिंग utensil ) सीमाएँ  from 7 mL to 14 mL .
In Australia one tablespoon (  मापन ईकाई )  is 20 mL .
Harry Potter is a  श्रेणी of सात काल्पनिक  novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard ,  हैरी कुम्हार , और उसके मित्रों रोनाल्ड वीज़्ली और हर्माइनी ग्रेंजर  , all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose aims are to become immortal , conquer the wizarding  संसार  , subjugate non-magical people , and destroy all those who stand in his way , especially Harry Potter .
Since the release of the first novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 June 1997 , the books  have gained immense लोकप्रियता , नाजुक acclaim और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी  worldwide .
The series has also had some share of  आलोचना , सहित चिंता लिये the  increasingly dark tone .
, the book series has sold  परिचय 450 लाख नक़ल , बनाना it the best-selling  book series in history , and has been translated into 67 languages .
The last four books consecutively set records as the  fastest-selling किताबे in इतिहास  .
A series of many genres , including  काल्पनिक और coming  of age ( with elements of mystery , thriller , adventure , and romance ) , it has many cultural meanings and references .
According  to रोलिंग ,  the main theme is death .
There are also many other  विषयवस्तु  in the series , such as prejudice and corruption .
The initial major publishers  of the किताबे यहूद  Bloomsbury in the United Kingdom and Scholastic Press in the United States .
The books have since been published by many publishers  विश्वव्यापी  .
The books , with the seventh book split into two parts , have been made  into an eight-part फिल्मी श्रेणी by warner भाईs.  Pictures , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
The  श्रेणी भी originated much tie-in  merchandise , making the Harry Potter brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the books and films , Harry Potter has been used for a theme  पार्क , the wizarding संसार of  Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
rs-68 होने tested  at NASA 's Stennis Space Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's  exhaust होने ज़्यादातर अतितप्त  steam ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking  5c प्रक्षेपास्त्र  engine
A  प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन , or बस `` प्रक्षेपास्त्र '' , is a जेट इंजन  that uses only stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket  इंजन हैं प्रतिक्रिया इंजन और obtain thrust in  accordance with Newton 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form their  जेट , प्रक्षेपास्त्र इंजन can be प्रयुक्त लिये spacecraft  propulsion as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket engines are  आतंरिक दहन इंजन ,  although non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust velocities , are by far the lightest , but are the least propellant  कुशल of सब  types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time ''  is a सोंग by अमरीकी  recording artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut single and  शीर्षक track इससे उसके डेब्यू स्टुडियो एल्बम , ... baby एक  More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby One More Time '' was released on September 30 , 1998 ,  by  Jive Records .
After recording and sending a demo tape with an unused song from Toni Braxton  , स्पीयर्स हस्ताक्षरित a multi-album सौदे साथ jive  .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a teen pop and  dance-pop सोंग कि refers to a लड़की  who regrets breaking up with her boyfriend .
The song received  generally अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ इससे  critics , who praised its composition .
`` ... Baby One  अधिक समय '' attained वैश्विक कामयाबी , reaching  number one in every country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the world , and is one of the best-selling singles of all  समय , साथ over 10 लाख  copies sold .
An accompanying music video , directed by Nigel Dick , portrays Spears as a  छात्र इससे a कैथोलिक ऊँची स्कूल , जो starts to daydream कि वो is गायन और नाचना  around the school , while watching her love interest from afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy  `` ( 2008 ) , जहाँ स्पीयर्स  's fictional daughter is dressed with a similar schoolgirl outfit while wearing pink ribbons in her hair .
In 2010 , the music video for `` ... Baby One More Time '' was  voted the तीसरा सबसे influential  video in the history of pop music , in a poll held by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One More Time '' in a number of live  दिखावे और in सब  of her concert tours .
It was the encore of the ... Baby One More Time Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream Within a Dream Tour ( 2001 ) ; Spears also performed remixed  संस्करण of the सोंग दौरान the उफ़ ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 )  , the गोमेद होटल दौरे ( 2004 ) , the m+m  's Tour ( 2007 ) , The Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance , and has  महरूम शामिल in सूचियाँ by ब्लेंडर  , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been  विख्यात लिये redefining  the sound of late 1990s music .
Spears has named `` ... Baby One More Time '' as  एक of उसके पसंदीदा गीतों  from her career .
It was also the final song to be played on the BBC 's music  कार्यक्रम शीर्ष of the चबूतरे  .
Cholera is an infection in the small intestine caused  by the  bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
The main  लक्षण हैं watery  diarrhea and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that  रै महरूम contaminated by the मल ( बर्बाद उत्पाद ) of an संक्रमित  person , including one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid  निर्जलीकरण और electrolyte असंतुलन , और मौत in  some cases .
The primary treatment is oral  पुनर्जलीकरण चिकित्सा , typically साथ  oral rehydration solution , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or does not provide improvement fast enough , intravenous fluids can  भी be प्रयुक्त  .
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with severe  बीमारी to shorten इसके  duration and severity .
Worldwide , it affects 3–5  लाख  people and causes 100,000–130,000 deaths a year .
Cholera was one of  the earliest infections  to be studied by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only  प्रकाशित अनोखा by ऑस्कर वाइल्ड , appearing as the सीसे  story in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine on 20 June 1890 , printed as the July 1890 issue of this magazine .
The magazine 's editors feared the story was  अभद्र as सुपुर्द , so वे censored roughly 500 शब्द ,  without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with  आक्रोश by अंग्रेजों reviewers , कुछ of जिसको सुझाया कि वाइल्ड  should be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading Wilde to defend the novel aggressively in letters to the British press .
Wilde later revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations , deleting controversial  passages , adding नई अध्याय और सहित an aphoristic preface जिससे  has since become famous in its own right .
The amended version was published by Ward , Lock and  कम्पनी in अप्रैल 1891  .
Some scholars believe  कि वाइल्ड होता आज  have wanted us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a young man named Dorian Gray , the subject  of a पेंटिंग  by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with him , believing his beauty is responsible for  a नई विधि in  his art .
डोरियन meets रब हेनरी wotton  , a friend of Basil 's , and becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism ,  रब हेनरी suggests  the only things worth pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses .
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a desire to sell  उसके आत्मा to ensure  the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of  the प्रभाव प्रत्येक अधिनियम रै upon उसके आत्मा , साथ प्रत्येक सिन प्रदर्शित as a disfigurement  of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is  माना a कार्य of क्लासिक गोथिक  fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
Sári Gábor ( born 6 February 1917 ) , known as Zsa Zsa Gabor ( ) , is a Hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies , on  ब्रॉडवे , और occasionally  on television .
Gabor  थी भी a socialite  .
She began her stage career in Vienna at  आयु 15 , और थी पहनाया मिस  Hungary in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after actress with `` European  फ्लेयर और स्टाइल ''  , with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first movie role was as  supporting अभिनेत्री  in Lovely to Look At .
She later acted  in we 're  Not Married !
and  निभाई एक of उसके few अग्रणी भूमिकाएँ  in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , directed by John Huston , who described her as a `` creditable '' actress .
besides उसके फिल्मी और टेलीविज़न  appearances , she is best known for having nine husbands , including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders .
She once stated , `` Men have always liked  me और i  have always liked men .
But I like a mannish man , a man who knows  कैसा to बात to और दावत a  woman – not just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : 李小龍 ; born Lee Jun-fan  ; 27 नवम्बर 1940 – 20 जुलाई 1973 ) थी a चाइनीज  American martial artist , actor , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The  संस्थापक of जीत kune  Do , Lee was the son of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely considered by commentators , critics , media and other martial artists  to be एक of the  most influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited with helping to change the way  एशियाइ यहूद प्रस्तुत in अमरीकी films  .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San Francisco on 27  नवम्बर 1940 to अभिभावक इससे हांग काँग  and was raised in Kowloon with his family until his late teens .
He was introduced to the  फिल्मी उद्योग by उसके पिता  and appeared in several films as a child actor .
ली स्थानांतरित to the संयुक्त राज्य at the आयु of  18 to receive his higher education , and it was during this time that he began teaching martial arts .
His Hong Kong and Hollywood -produced films elevated  the परंपरागत हांग काँग martial कला  film to a new level of popularity and acclaim , sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial arts in the West in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong  काँग और the बाकी of the संसार  .
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way  of the ड्रैगन ( 1972 ) , निर्देशित और लिखा by ली ; warner भाइयो ' डालें the ड्रैगन ( 1973 ) और  The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee  became an iconic फिगर ज्ञात throughout  the world , particularly among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring instead the use of techniques from various sources , in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy , which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do (  the रास्ता of the intercepting  Fist ) .
Lee  आयोजित डुअल नागरिकता  of Hong Kong and the United States .
He died in  कोलून टोंग  on 20 July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , chronic  obstructive airway बीमारी ( coad ) , दीर्घकालिक airflow limitation ( कैलोरी ) और दीर्घकालिक obstructive  respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the lungs in which the airways narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and from  the  lungs , causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ) .
In clinical practice , COPD is defined by its  characteristically कम airflow on फेफड़ों फलन  tests .
In contrast to asthma , this  limitation is poorly reversible और प्रायः  gets progressively worse over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly  इससे तम्बाकू धूम्रपान , जिससे triggers  an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung .
The  निदान of  COPD requires lung function tests .
Important management  रणनीति हैं धूम्रपान cessation , vaccinations , पुनर्वास  , and drug therapy ( often using inhalers ) .
कुछ मरीजों go on  to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked  as the छठे अग्रणी कारण  of death in 1990 .
It is projected to  become the चौथी अग्रणी कारण  of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes in many countries .
COPD is the  तीसरा अग्रणी कारण  of death in the U.S. , and the economic burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June  1929early  March 1945 ) is one of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust .
Her diary has been the basis for  अनेक plays और  films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in  वाइमर जर्मनी , वो जिया  most of her life in or near Amsterdam , in the Netherlands .
Born a German  नेशनल  , Frank lost her citizenship in 1941 .
She gained international fame posthumously after her diary  थी प्रकाशित  .
It documents her experiences  छुपाना दौरान the जर्मनी occupation  of the Netherlands in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany  to एम्सटर्डम  in 1933 , the year the Nazis gained control over Germany .
By the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by  the नाजी occupation of the नीदरलैंड्स  .
As  persecutions of the यहूदी जनसांख्यिकी increased in जुलाई 1942 , the परिवार गई into छुपाना  in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After two years , the group was betrayed  और transported to विशेषज्ञता  camps .
Anne Frank and her sister , Margot , were eventually transferred to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp , where they died  of सन्निपात in कूच 1945  .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family  , लौटे to एम्सटर्डम बाद the युद्ध to  find that Anne 's diary had been saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
It was translated from its original Dutch and  पहला प्रकाशित in  English in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has since been translated into many  भाषाएं .
the डायरी , जिससे थी दिए to ऐनी  on her 13th birthday , chronicles her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
Kurt  's हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 – April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and artist , best known as the lead singer ,  guitarist और प्राथमिक songwriter of the grunge बैंड निर्वाण .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in  1985 और स्थापित it as भाग of the सिएटल म्यूज़िक झाँकी , having  its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like  टीन स्पिरिट `` इससे इसके दूसरी एल्बम nevermind  ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind  , निर्वाण थी labeled ``  the flagship band '' of Generation X , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was  प्रायः असहज और कुंठित ,  believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's  दर्शक साथ इसके फाइनल स्टुडियो  album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness  और  depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding  खुद  and his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was  मिला मुर्दे at उसके घर in  Seattle , the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The  हालातों of उसके मौत at आयु  27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate .
चूंकि उनके डेब्यू , निर्वाण  , with Cobain as a songwriter , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
Radial  इंजन  timing and cam mechanism .
Click for full resolution  एनिमेशन  .
रेडियल  engine of a biplane
Master rod ( upright ) , slaves and balances from a two-row ,  fourteen-cylinder  Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The  रेडियल इंजन is a प्रत्यागमनी प्रकार आतंरिक दहन इंजन विन्यास  in which the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized star when viewed from the front , and is  पुकारा a `` स्टार इंजन ''  ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly used in  वायुयान इंजन पहले  turbine engines became predominant .
The Golden Girls is an American sitcom ,  निर्मित by सुसान हैरिस , कि originally  aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur , Betty White , Rue  mcclanahan और estelle getty , the  show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was produced by Witt/Thomas/Harris Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and Paul  junger witt , टोनी थामस , और हैरिस परोसा as the असली  executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards , including the Primetime Emmy  पुरस्कार लिये बकाया  Comedy Series twice .
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for  बेहतरीन टेलीविज़न श्रेणी – musical  or Comedy .
All four stars each  प्राप्त an एमी पुरस्कार throughout  the series ' run and had multiple nominations .
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out  of इसके सात सीज़न  .
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas exploration and production in  गहराइयों of अधिक than 500  feet .
By this  परिभाषा ,  there are approximately 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has  महरूम economically  infeasible for many years , but with rising oil prices , more companies are investing in this area .
Major companies working in this sector  शामिल डायमंड  Offshore , TransOcean , and Baker Hughes .
There are  मूलरूप दो kinds of मोबाईल deepwater  drilling rigs : semi-submersible drilling rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a  फ्लोटिंग spar ( मंच ) or  tension-leg platform .
Recent industry  विश्लेषण रै अनुमानित कि the  total expenditure in the global deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
“Not all oil is  accessible on जमीन  or in shallow water .
You  can ढूँढें कुछ आयल जमा दफ्न गहन अंतर्गत the समंदर floor.”  ... Using sonic equipment , oil companies determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling unit ( MODU ) to dig  the आरंभिक खूब  .
Some units are converted  into उत्पादन  rigs , meaning they switch from drilling for oil to capturing oil once it 's found .
Most of the time , the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production rig to capture  oil.” ... the मोदू 's जॉब is to ड्रिल bas into the  ocean 's floor to find oil deposits .
The part of  the ड्रिल कि extends  below the deck and through the water is called the riser .
The riser  allows लिये खुदाई fluids  to move between the floor and the rig .
Engineers lower a drill string -- a series of pipes  designed to ड्रिल bas to the आयल जमा -- through the  riser.”
“The  विस्तार of deepwater  drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... ”
In 2010 a large  विस्फोट occurred हत्या 11 मजदूर  and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rig was drilling in deep waters .
“ ...  despite the risks , the deepwater खुदाई  trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural gas.”
“The reason for the resumption of such drilling , analyst say , is continuing high  माँग लिये उर्जा worldwide.”
America needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come  साथ deepwater खुदाई in अनुक्रम लिये अमेरिकी to continue  to carry on their everyday lives .
“The Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a quarter of total domestic  उत्पादन , to 2 लाख barrels a दिन  by 2020.”
Deepwater drilling affects the  पर्यावरण in दोनो ऋणात्मक  and positive ways .
Although Deepwater drilling rarely causes  आयल spills it is स्टिल a hazardous  possible outcome .
Oil spills result in oil sinking  to the नीचे of the समंदर smothering संयंत्र जीवन leaving  fish without food and shelter to survive .
On the other hand deepwater drilling  प्रभाव the पर्यावरण in a धनात्मक  ways too .
In time once the deepwater oil well  is नहीं in उपयोग anymore  plants will grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the depths of the ocean floor that  हैं hardly  ever seen .
”Cameras on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take  फ़ोटो of विरल मछली कि हैं in वहीँ प्राकृतिक आवास , giving वैज्ञानिक  a look at animals they rarely seen” ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill Clinton  admitted to having था an `` improper संबंध  '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its  परखना ( जिससे शामिल  Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert ``  फ़्रैंक '' सिनात्रा , , ( दिसम्बर  12 , 1915 – May 14 , 1998 ) was an American singer and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented success as a solo artist from the early to  mid-1940s बाद होने हस्ताक्षरित  to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released his first  एल्बम , the आवाज़ of फ़्रैंक सिनात्रा  in 1946 .
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s , but it  थी पुनर्जन्म in  1953 after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records  in 1953 और released अनेक critically  lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come Fly with Me , Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert Sinatra & Antonio Carlos Jobim ) , toured  internationally , थी a founding सदस्य of the चूहा पैक और fraternized साथ हस्तियाँ और कूटनीतिज्ञों , सहित जॉन F. कैनेडी  .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years ,  स्ट्रक्चर in the एमी -winning टेलीविज़न खास फ़्रैंक सिनात्रा : a  Man and His Music , and scored hits with `` Strangers in the Night `` and `` My Way `` .
With sales of his music dwindling and after appearing in several  poorly प्राप्त films , सिनात्रा रिटायर्ड लिये the पहला  time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came out of  रिटायरमेंट और in  1973 recorded several albums , scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base , he  toured दोनो भीतर the संयुक्त राज्य और  internationally , until a short time before his death in 1998 .
Sinatra also forged a  अत्यधिक कामयाब  career as a film actor .
After winning Best Supporting Actor in 1953 , he also garnered a nomination for Best Actor for The Man with the Golden Arm , and critical acclaim  लिये उसके  performance in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also starred  in ऐसे musicals as ऊँची समाज  , Pal Joey , Guys and Dolls and On the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy  बीच honors in 1983 और थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक  of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy Trustees Award , Grammy Legend  पुरस्कार और the ग्रैमी  Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra is also one of world’s best-selling artists of all time , having sold more  than 150 लाख  copies worldwide .
ठेठ cornhole  board
Cornhole ,  भी ज्ञात as सेम थैला टॉस ,  corn toss , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing corn hole bags at a raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in the hole scores 3  अंक ,  while one on the platform scores 1 point .
Play  continues जबतक a टोली  or player reaches the score of 21 .
The  अमरीकी सुनहरा त्रिभुज is an  official gold bullion coin of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold Bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was first  released by the संयुक्त राज्य मिंट in  1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram  choudhury synthesized इससे परंपरागत  hatha yoga techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All  बिक्रम योग वर्ग चलाएं लिये 90 मिनट्स और  consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
बिक्रम योग is ideally practiced  in a room heated to 105°F ( ≈ 40.6°C ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian and  rapper बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये अभिनीत as माइकल barret  in Nickelodeon television series Zoey 101 .
Massey  रै प्राप्त अनेक पुरस्कार  and nomination including a Young Artist Award and Emmy Awards nominations .
He is also known for appearing in several  commercials  in the early 2000s .
A  conventional teaspoon  made of stainless steel .
A  teaspoon is an मद of cutlery and/or a measuring  instrument , as well as a unit of measurement of volume in some countries and customs .
A fern is any one or more of a group of about 12,000 species of plants belonging to the  वनस्पति समूह ज्ञात  as Pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they  have जाइलम और  phloem ( making them vascular plants ) .
They have  तना , पत्ते , और  roots like other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via  बीजाणुओं और have neither  seeds nor flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate  ferns , लकिन  ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular  पौधे ( देखिए वर्गीकरण  section below ) .
Ferns first appear in  the चट्टान रिकार्ड 360 लाख सालो पहले in the carboniferous लकिन अनेक of the  current families and species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the early Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns  हैं नहीं of प्रमुख आर्थिक महत्व  , but some are grown or gathered for food , as ornamental plants , for remediating contaminated soils , and have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some are  significant weeds  .
वे भी  play a role in mythology , medicine , and art .
Flat roofs  in इसराईल
Flat roof  in लॉस  Angeles
A flat roof is a type of  covering लिये a  building .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat  छत is आड़ा or nearly आड़ा  .
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch :  roofs जिससे हैं nearly चपटा हैं ज्ञात as low-pitch roofs (  as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
Any  चादर of सामग्री प्रयुक्त to  cover a flat or low-pitched roof is usually known as a membrane and the primary purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that cover flat roofs  typically allow the जल to चलाएं बंद  from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water  इससे कुछ चपटा roofs ऐसे as on गार्डन sheds sometimes  flows freely off the edge of a roof , though gutter systems are of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often  सीसे जल सीधे onto the मैदान  , or better , into a specially made soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater drainage system of any built  up क्षेत्रफल  .
Occasionally flat roofs though are  designed to collect जल in a पूल ,  usually for aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs exist all over the world and each area has its own tradition or  वरीयता लिये सामग्री  used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur , many flat roofs are simply built of  चिनाई or कंक्रीट और इस is शुभ at keeping आउट the ऊष्मा of the सूर्य  and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas  जहाँ the छत could become संतृप्त by  rain and leak , or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and thus lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally most flat roofs  in the पश्चिमी संसार मेक उपयोग of तारकोल or अधिक प्रायः  tar paper applied over roof decking to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in  बजरी to रखना the सूर्य 's ऊष्मा , uv किरणें और  weather off it and helps protect it from cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is  प्रायः of प्लाईवुड , chipboard or osb फलक ( osb = उन्मुख strand  Board , also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down and sealed together at joints by  hot तारकोल - एकबार it रै cooled , the बजरी  is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs  is अनभिज्ञता or कमी  of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the tar or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a  'paper ' or fibre सामग्री  soaked or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such as on parapet walls or upstands , tarpaper variants are produced with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of  manufacture ऐसे कि a स्थाई परत  of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
tarpapers vary in विशेषता as करता  the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas these rather 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase  और लागत of लेटा उन्हें , however the लागत of आधुनिक झिल्लियों ऐसे as epdm  has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable .
There are now more firms supplying modern alternatives and there is  generally a growing जागरूकता of  their performance and availability .
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water penetrates and soaks the decking and any  इन्सुलेशन and/or ढांचा beneath it  .
This can lead to expensive damage  इससे the दुर्गन्ध जिससे प्रायः develops और if बाएँ can  weaken the roof structure .
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould  बीजाणुओं : the गंभीरता of इस  health risk remains a debated point .
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional  or a आधुनिक झिल्ली ) it can सफर a long  way before causing visible damage or leaking into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy  to देखिए जहाँ  it is leaking in order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection  or puddling  of water in that area and the problem worsens .
A CD-ROM ( )  is a pre-pressed कॉम्पैक्ट  disc which contains data .
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact  डिस्क read-only मेमोरी  `` .
Computers can read  cd-roms , लकिन can  not write on them .
CD-ROMs are  popularly प्रयुक्त to वितरित कंप्यूटर तन्त्र , सहित  video games and multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced CDs  , थाम दोनो कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा और ऑडियो साथ the latter सक्षम  of being played on a CD player , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the  तकनीकी मानक कि  defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of  color-bound किताबे कि contain the तकनीकी विशेषताएँ  for all CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It  adapted the स्वरूप  to hold any form of data .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen name J. K. Rowling , is a British  उपन्यासकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात as  the author of the Harry Potter fantasy series .
The Potter books  have gained विश्वव्यापी ध्यान , जीती अनेक  awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
They have become the best-selling book series in history ,  और महरूम the आधार लिये a श्रेणी of films  which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall approval  on the स्क्रिप्ट as खूब  as maintaining creative control by serving as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working  as a शोधकर्ता और दुभाषिया  secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother  , तलाक इससे उसके पहला husband और गरीबी जबतक रोलिंग  finished the first novel in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
रोलिंग subsequently  published 6 sequels—the last , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) —as well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with  उसके एजेंसी और resumed लिखने in the  form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is currently working on two books—one aimed  लिये वयस्कों , the अन्य लिये children younger than the  Harry Potter audience , and she expects the latter to be published first .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which she progressed from living on state benefits  to multi-millionaire औकात भीतर पाँच  years .
She is the United Kingdom  's best-selling लेखक चूंकि  records began , with sales in excess of £238m .
The 2008 Sunday Times  समृद्ध सूची अनुमानित  Rowling 's fortune at £560 million ( $ 798 million ) , ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , and  समय पत्रिका नामित उसके as a runner-up  for its 2007 Person of the Year , noting the social , moral , and political inspiration she has given her fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling was named the `` Most  influential स्त्री in ब्रिटेन '' by अग्रणी पत्रिका सम्पादक  .
She has become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic Relief , One Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and  lumos ( formerly the children  's High Level Group ) .
Auburndale is  a नगर in polk काउंटी  , Florida , United States .
the जनसांख्यिकी थी  11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the  u.s जनसांख्यिकी estimates of  2005 , the city had a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland – Winter Haven  महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
Hurricane  इसाबेल ( 2003 ) as देखी इससे  orbit during Expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , characteristics of tropical cyclones , are clearly visible in this  दृश्य इससे स्पेस  .
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure center surrounded by  a सर्पिल व्यवस्था of thunderstorms  that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises , resulting in condensation of  जल वाष्प contained  in the moist air .
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as  nor'easters , यूरोपीय windstorms , और ध्रुवीय चढ़ाव  .
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic systems is that at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a tropical  चक्रवात होगा be warmer than इसके परिवेश ; a घटना पुकारा `` गरम  core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers  दोनो to the भौगोलिक उत्पत्ति of ये प्रणालियों , जिससे  usually form in tropical regions of the globe , and to their formation in maritime tropical air masses .
the पद `` चक्रवात '' refers to ऐसे तूफ़ान ' cyclonic प्रकृति ,  with counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere .
The opposite  दिशा of the  wind flow is a result of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its  स्थान और शक्ति , a तीव्र चक्रवात  is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic storm , tropical depression , and simply cyclone .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful  हवाएँ और मूसलाधार बरसात ,  they are also able to produce high waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies of warm water , and lose their strength  if वे मूव over जमीन due to increased  surface friction and loss of the warm ocean as an energy source .
This is why coastal  regions can प्राप्त significant क्षति इससे a तीव्र  cyclone , while inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding inland , and storm surges can produce extensive  तटीय बाढ़  up to from the coastline .
Although their effects on human  populations can be विनाशकारी  , tropical cyclones can relieve drought conditions .
They also carry heat energy away from the tropics and transport it toward temperate latitudes , which makes them an important part  of the वैश्विक  atmospheric circulation mechanism .
As a result , tropical cyclones help to maintain equilibrium in the  धरती 's क्षोभमण्डल , और  to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop when the  वायुमंडलीय शर्तें around  a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background  पर्यावरण is modulated by climatological चक्र  and patterns such as the Madden-Julian oscillation , El Niño-Southern Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
Others form when other  प्रकार of cyclones acquire तीव्र  characteristics .
Tropical systems are then moved  by परिचालन हवाएँ in the क्षोभमण्डल ; if  the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On  the अन्य समाप्त of the वर्णक्रम , if  the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall , the system weakens and eventually dissipates .
It is not possible to artificially induce  the dissipation of ये प्रणालियों  with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is an American stage and film  कर्ता , फिल्मी निर्माता और लेखक  .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . Corral  ( 1957 ) , the वाइकिंग्स ( 1958 ) , स्पार्टाकस ( 1960  ) , Lonely Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He  is no.17 on the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's  list of the greatest male American screen legends of all time , making him the highest-ranked living person on the list .
In 1996 , he received the Academy Honorary Award `` for 50 years as a  रचनात्मक और moral फ़ोर्स in the गति चित्र जातियाँ  . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from Hollywood 's  `` सुनहरी  age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob  '' seger ( born may 6 , 1945 )  is an American rock and roll singer-songwriter , guitarist and pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist ,  he performed और अंकित as bob seger और  the Last Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s ,  he था dropped the `` प्रणाली '' इससे  his recordings and continued to strive for broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians  , साथ जिसको he became सबसे कामयाब on the नेशनल  level with the album Live Bullet , recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 ,  he हासिल a नेशनल ब्रेकआउट  with the studio album Night Moves .
On his studio albums , he also worked  extensively साथ the alabama-based मांसपेशी shoals लय  Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , shouting voice , Seger  wrote and  recorded songs that dealt with love , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger has recorded many hits , including `` Night Moves , '' `` Turn the Page , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` Against the Wind , '' and Shakedown that was written for Beverly Hills Cop  ii और `` जैसे a चट्टान , '' और भी  co-wrote the Eagles ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic  रिकॉर्डिंग of `` बूढ़ा समय चट्टान और फेंकें `` थी  named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades ,  seger continues to perform  and record today .
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the  songwriters हॉल of कीर्ति in 2012  .
Richard Milhous Nixon (  जनवरी 9 , 1913 – अप्रैल  22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969 to 1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican U.S. representative and  सीनेटर इससे कैलिफ़ोर्निया और as the 36th वाइस अध्यक्ष  of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in Yorba Linda  , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
He graduated from Whittier  कॉलेज in 1934 और ड्यूक विश्वविद्यालयों स्कूल of  Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat Nixon , moved to  वॉशिंगटन to कार्य लिये  the federal government in 1942 .
He  subsequently  served in the United States Navy during World War II .
Nixon was elected in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया to the हाउस  of Representatives in 1946 and to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of  the alger hiss मामला स्थापित उसके  reputation as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर , the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी  presidential nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon served for eight  सालो as वाइस  president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F.  कैनेडी , और  lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again  लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी और थी निर्वाचित  .
Although Nixon  initially escalated अमेरिका 's  involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon  's विज़िट to the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of चीन in 1972  opened diplomatic relations between the two nations , and he initiated détente and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , his  प्रशासन generally embraced  policies that transferred power from Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs ,  imposed मजदूरी और दाम नियंत्रण , enforced desegregation of  some Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the  चंद्र अवतरण शुरूआत साथ  Apollo 11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He was  re-elected by a भूस्खलन  in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal  और  other misconduct by members of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost  निश्चित महाभियोग और हटाना इससे दफ्तर  .
After his  इस्तीफा , he controversially  received a pardon issued by his successor , Gerald Ford .
In retirement ,  निक्सन 's कार्य as an elder statesman , authoring अनेक किताबे और  undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered  a debilitating स्ट्रोक  on April 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ {  infobox  Senator
The Dominican  गणतंत्र annexation सन्धि caused कड़वा  contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
Brady  1869 ]  ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation would lead to the  conquest of the neighboring ब्लैक गणतंत्र of हैती , became कायल  that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Sen. Sumner initially withheld his  राय on the सन्धि  on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of State ,  bancroft डेविस , कि u.s . नवल जहाजों यहूद  being used to protect President Báez .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and  at sen. sumner’s सुझाव और काफी संभवतः  to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in executive session .
President Grant persisted and sent messages to Congress  in एहसान of annexation  on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals , noting the chronic rebellion  कि took प्लेस on the द्वीप , और the रिस्क कि the स्वतंत्रता  of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a  प्रोटेक्टोरेट थी a उल्लंघन of अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 ,  1870 the सन्धि थी voted on by the सीनेट  and failed to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage .
The following day , President Grant , feeling betrayed by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of Sumner’s close  dost J. lothrop motley , दूत to ब्रिटेन  .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president  थी पब्लिक ज्ञान , और he blamed the सचिव of राज्य लिये failing to have resigned  , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men , friends until then ,  cooled into कड़वा  enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow , Sumner  दिया a fiercely नाजुक वाक accusing the  president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , had initiated a campaign to depose Sumner from the  अध्यक्षता of the सीनेट विदेशी संबंध कमेटी  .
Although Sumner stated he was an  `` प्रशासन man '' , in जोड to having रोका ग्रान्ट 's डोमिनिकन गणतंत्र सन्धि attempt , sumner था पराजित ग्रान्ट  's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act , blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
Grant resented Sumner 's  बड़प्पन  of manner , as well .
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible , the  अध्यक्ष is supposed to have कहा  that he was not surprised : `` he did n't write it . ''
As the rift  between ग्रान्ट और  Sumner increased , Sumner’s health began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators  संबद्ध साथ अध्यक्ष ग्रान्ट , ज्ञात as ‘’new radicals’’ voted to  oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of  लागू आचार  or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire  संगठन  .
कारोबार आचार रै  both normative and descriptive dimensions .
As a corporate  अभ्यास और a करियर  specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to  समझे कारोबार बर्ताव employ वर्णनात्मक  methods .
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing  बर्ताव साथ non-economic चिंताएं  .
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during  the 1980s और 1990s , दोनो भीतर  major corporations and within academia .
For example , today most major corporations promote their  प्रतिबद्धता to non-economic मान अंतर्गत headings ऐसे as आचार कोड  and social responsibility charters .
Adam  स्मिथ कहा , `` लोगों of the  same trade seldom meet together , even for merriment and diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business  बर्ताव in कया वे perceive  to be beneficial directions .
आचार implicitly regulates क्षेत्रों  and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control .
the emergence of विशाल corporations  with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury  to flesh or स्किन  caused by heat , electricity , chemicals , friction , or radiation .
सबसे burns affect तभी the सतही स्किन ( ज्ञात as सतही or पहला  degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin  or deeper ऊतकों , ऐसे as मांसपेशी or  bone can be injured in which case the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The  उपचार जरूरी depends  on the severity of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than simple   pain killers while major burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers .
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exposure is  prolonged it may परिणाम in कम देह तापमान  .
Partial  मोटाई burns may आवश्यकता  cleaning with soap and water followed by dressings .
Blisters should typically be left  अखंड  .
Full thickness  burns  usually require surgical treatments such as skin grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common  जटिलताओं of burns हैं  related to infection .
While large burns can be fatal , modern treatments  विकसित in the पिछला 50 सालो have significantly improved  the outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people  तलाश चिकित्सा  treatment and 300,000 people die from burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a burn center ,  लगभग 4 % die इससे उनके  injuries .
The long term outcome is primarily related to the size  of बर्न और the आयु of  the person effected .
The  अटलांटिक समंदर , नहीं  including Arctic and Antarctic regions
इस वीडियो थी लिया by  the crew of Expedition 29 on board the ISS .
The pass starts from just north-east of the  द्वीप of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड over the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर to सेंट्रल  Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of  the संसार 's oceanic  divisions .
With a total area of about , it covers  लगभग 20 प्रतिशत of the धरती  's surface and about 29 percent of its water surface area .
The  पहला भाग of इसके नाम refers to  Atlas of Greek mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest known mention of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek :  ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα ; अंग्रेज़ी : समुद्र of एटलस )  .
The term  ethiopic समंदर , निकला इससे इथियोपिया  , was applied to the southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century .
पहले  Europeans discovered other oceans , the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that we now know as the Atlantic .
The  जल्दी यूनानियों believed  this ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world .
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated , S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the  americas to the वेस्ट .
As one component of the interconnected  वैश्विक समंदर , it is कनेक्ट in the उत्तर to the आर्कटिक समंदर ( जिससे is sometimes माना a समुद्र of  the Atlantic ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic as extending  southward  to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into  the उत्तर अटलांटिक समंदर  and South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need for a  अद्वितीय पहचानकर्ता in issuing forecasts और चेतावनियाँ , तीव्र cyclones  and subtropical cyclones are given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these  तीव्र और उपोष्ण चक्रवात  names are derived .
White light is dispersed by a prism into the colors of  the ऑप्टिकल वर्णक्रम  .
The visible  वर्णक्रम is the portion of the  electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called  दृश्य लाइट or बस लाइट  .
A typical human eye will respond to  wavelengths इससे परिचय 390  to 700 nm .
in शर्तें of आवृत्ति  , this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–790 THz .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the green region  of the ऑप्टिकल वर्णक्रम ( देखिए :  luminosity function ) .
The spectrum does  नहीं , however , contain सब the रंगों कि  the human eyes and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as pink , or purple variations such as  magenta , हैं अनुपस्थित , लिये उदाहरण , क्युकी  they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing only one wavelength  हैं भी पुकारा pure रंगों  .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the region of the  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक वर्णक्रम जिससे allows wavelengths to pass largely  unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An example of this phenomenon is that  साफ एयर scatters ब्लू लाइट अधिक than रेड wavelengths  , and so the midday sky appears blue .
The  ऑप्टिकल खिड़की  is also called the visible window because it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the human vision , as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long  wavelength or दूर इन्फ्रारेड ( lwir or fir ) खिड़की हालांकि  other animals may experience them .
Many species can see light with frequencies outside the `` visible spectrum , '' which is defined  in शर्तें of इंसान दृष्टि  .
Bees and many   other insects can detect ultraviolet light , which helps them find nectar in flowers .
Plant species that  निर्भर on कीट परागण may owe  reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than how colorful they appear to humans .
Birds , too , can see into the ultraviolet ( 300–400 nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings on their  plumage कि हैं दृश्य तभी in the  ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the ultraviolet range  , however , can नहीं देखिए रेड लाइट or कोई अन्य  reddish wavelengths .
मधुमक्खियों ' दृश्य वर्णक्रम  ends at about 590nm , just before the orange wavelengths start .
Birds ,  however , can देखिए  some red wavelengths , but not as many as humans .
Zebras ( or ) are several species of African equids ( horse family )  संयुक्त by उनके distinctive ब्लैक और  white stripes .
Their stripes come in  अलग पैटर्न  , unique to each individual .
They are generally social animals that live in  छोटी harems to विशाल herds  .
Unlike their closest relatives , horses and asses ,  zebras have never महरूम truly  domesticated .
There are three  प्रजाति of zebras : the  plains zebra , the Grévy 's zebra and the mountain zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain  जेब्रा belong to the subgenus hippotigris  , but Grévy 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely related , while the former two are more  horse-like  .
All three belong to the genus  equus , साथ  with other living equids .
The unique stripes of zebras make them one of the  पशु सबसे परिचित to लोगों  .
वे occur in a किस्में of habitats ,  such as grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
However , various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations , in  particular शिकार लिये खालें और आवास विनाश  .
grévy 's जेब्रा और the  mountain zebra are endangered .
जबकि मैदान zebras हैं much अधिक plentiful , एक subspecies , the quagga , became विलुप्त in the लेट 19th सदी  – though there is currently a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back .
Barry White , born Barry Eugene Carter ( – ) , was an American  composer और singer-songwriter  .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known  लिये उसके distinctive बास आवाज़ और रोमांटिक चित्र , श्वेत 's महानतम कामयाबी  came in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting many enduring soul , funk , and disco songs such as his two biggest hits , `` You 're the First , the Last , My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love , Babe . ''
Along with Isaac Hayes , White  is माना by allmusic.com  as a pioneer of disco music in the early 1970s .
During the course of his career in the music business , White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of  जिससे भी attained प्लेटिनम  status .
White had 20 gold  और 10 प्लेटिनम singles , साथ विश्वव्यापी बिक्री  in excess of 100 million , according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan .
His influences included Rev . James Cleveland , Ray  चार्ल्स , एरीथा फ्रैंकलिन  plus Motown artists The Supremes , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975 ) is  an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , फिल्मी निदेशक , और  screenwriter .
She has received an Academy Award , two Screen Actors Guild Awards , and three Golden Globe  पुरस्कार , और थी नामित हॉलीवुड 's highest-paid  actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes , and is noted for her work with refugees as a Special Envoy and former Goodwill  दूत लिये  the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman , a title for  जिससे वो रै प्राप्त substantial मीडिया ध्यान  .
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get  आउट ( 1982 ) , लकिन उसके फिल्मी करियर began in सच्चाई a दशक  later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first leading role in a major film was in  the cyber-thriller  Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the  critically acclaimed biographical टेलीविज़न films  George Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) ,  और स्थापित herself among the highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों  in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 )  और चाही ( 2008 ) —her biggest non-animated वाणिज्यिक सफलताओं to date—and  received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie made her directorial debut with  the wartime  drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller and Billy Bob  थॉर्नटन , जोली अभी जीवनदान  with actor Brad Pitt , in a relationship notable for fervent media attention .
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children and  तीन अपनाया  children .
A natural arch  उत्पादित by the अपरदन of differentially  weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the Earth 's surface by exogenetic processes  ऐसे as हवा or जल प्रवाह , और तब transported और deposited  in other locations .
While erosion is a  प्राकृतिक प्रक्रम , इंसान  activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally .
excessive अपरदन कल्याणकारी समस्याएं ऐसे as मरुस्थलीकरण  , decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined ,  वे हैं जिम्मेदार लिये 84 % of degraded acreage , बनाना excessive  erosion one of the most significant global environmental problems .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads , anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl are amongst the most  significant इंसान क्रियाएँ in लिहाज़ to उनके  effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace -building , no-till  कृषि , और revegetation of denuded soils  .
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on  एमटीवी इससे दिसम्बर 3 , 2009  to December 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The series follows the lives of eight housemates spending  उनके गर्मियाँ at the  Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to  मियामी बीच , साथ ऋतु 3 returning to  the Jersey Shore .
The fourth season , filmed in Italy  , premiered on अगस्त  4 , 2011 .
The show  लौटे लिये a पांचवां  season , at Seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
The fifth season  finale  aired on March 15 , 2012 .
On March 19 , 2012 , MTV  पुष्टि कि the श्रेणी  would return for their sixth season .
On August 30 , 2012 ,  एमटीवी  announced that the series will end after the sixth season , which premiered on October 4 .
The series finale  aired on  December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American  stereotypes , और scrutiny इससे स्थानीय क्युकी the डाल सदस्यों  were not residents of the area .
The series garnered record ratings for MTV ,  बनाना it the संजाल  's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series '  डाल have भी महरूम credited  with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into American popular culture .
The University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that  have था वर्ग or सम्मेलनों परिचय the दिखाएँ  .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey Shore was named on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People list , and the series has since been exported to  दर्जनों of देशों विश्वव्यापी  .
There are several remakes of the show in other countries , with two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie  shore , नियत in न्यूकैसल upon tyne  , England .
The other is The Valleys , the Welsh  समतुल्य , जिससे is  filmed and set in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of the show is Gandía Shore , set in  gandía , स्पेन .
सही
United States territory is any extent of region under  the क्षेत्राधिकार of the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त  States , including all waters ( around islands or continental tracts ) and all U.S . Naval vessels .
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting  , conserving , और मैनेजिंग इसके territory  .
This extent  of territory is सब the क्षेत्रफल belonging to , और अंतर्गत the डोमिनियन  of , the United States federal government ( which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes .
the संयुक्त राज्य  total territory includes a subset of political divisions .
The U.S. government is a government  साथ प्रतिनिधित्व  powers under the United States Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the United  राज्य by the संविधान  , nor prohibited by it to the States , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated  as t3 ) is a 2003 विज्ञान fiction कार्रवाई फिल्मी निर्देशित by जोनाथन mostow और अभिनीत  Arnold Schwarzenegger , Nick Stahl , Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It  is the दूसरी sequel  to The Terminator ( 1984 ) .
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor before her son is born and to kill John himself as a child , it sends back another Terminator , the T-X , in  an attempt to wipe आउट as अनेक प्रतिरोध  officers as possible .
This  शामिल जॉन 's  future wife , but not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in danger when the T-X  accidentally  finds him .
A  cord of लकडी
The cord is a unit of  माप  of dry volume used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the  राशि of लकडी कि  , when `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned , parallel , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high , long , and deep ; or any other arrangement of  रैखिक माप कि yields the वही  volume .
The name cord  संभवतः आता इससे  the use of a cord or string to measure it .
The ,  is an 8-bit हैंडहेल्ड  video game device developed and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was  released in जापानी on  , in North America in , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line , and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 —the same staff who had  designed the खेल & देखें  series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
redesigned संस्करण यहूद released  in 1996 and 1998 , in the form of Game Boy Pocket , and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is Nintendo  's दूसरी हैंडहेल्ड प्रणाली following the खेल  & Watch series introduced in , and it combined features from both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled with the  पहेली  game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game Boy competed with the Sega Game Gear ,  atari लिंक्स , और the turboexpress .
Despite these other technologically  श्रेष्ठ हैंडहेल्ड consoles , the खेल  Boy was a tremendous success .
The Game Boy and its successor  , the खेल लड़के रंग , have दोनो संयुक्त बेची  118.69 million units worldwide .
Upon its release in the United States , it sold  इसके संपूर्ण  shipment of one million units within weeks .
The World Trade Center is  a जटिल of इमारतें अंतर्गत निर्माण  in Lower Manhattan , New York City , United States , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers , which opened on  अप्रैल 4 , 1973 और यहूद नष्ट in  the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along with 7 World Trade Center .
The other  इमारतें in the जटिल यहूद  damaged in the attacks , and their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with  पाँच नई skyscrapers और a मेमोरियल to  those killed in the attacks .
, only one skyscraper has been completed ; the  अन्य चार हैं अपेक्षित  to be completed before 2020 .
One World Trade Center will be the lead building for the new  जटिल , reaching  more than 100 stories at its completion .
It became the tallest building in New York City on April 30 , 2012 ,  और is अपेक्षित to be समाप्त by 2013 .
a छठे  tower is awaiting confirmation .
At the time of their  पूर्णता , the असली 1 संसार व्यापार बीच ( the उत्तर मीनार ) और 2 संसार व्यापार  Center ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '' , were the tallest buildings in the world .
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott World Trade Center ) , 4  wtc , 5 wtc , 6 wtc ,  and 7 WTC .
All of these  इमारतें यहूद  built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the construction was $ 400 million (  $ in डॉलर  ) .
The complex was located in the heart  of नई यॉर्क नगर 's शहर वित्तीय ज़िला  and contained 13.4 million square feet ( 1.24 million m2 ) of office space .
The World Trade Center experienced a  आग on , 1975 , a bombing on  , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize  the संसार व्यापार बीच , पट्टे the इमारतें to a  private company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the  morning of सितंबर 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda -संबद्धd hijackers  flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex , one into each tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by  the उत्तर मीनार ( 1 ) , साथ the हमले on the संसार व्यापार बीच  resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined with fires  कि the मलबा initiated in अनेक surrounding इमारतें , led to the आंशिक  or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The process of  क्लीनअप और रिकवरी at  the World Trade Center site took eight months .
Over the following  सालो , योजनाएँ लिये a rebuilt  World Trade Center took form .
The first new building at the site was 7 World  व्यापार बीच , जिससे खोली in .
The  निम्नतर मैनहटन विकास निगम ( lmdc ) ,  established in to oversee the rebuilding process , organized competitions to select a site plan and memorial design .
Memory  मूलाधार , designed by डेनियल libeskind  , was selected as the master plan , but this went through substantial changes in design .
The new World Trade Center complex will include One World Trade Center , three other high-rise office  मीनारें , और the नेशनल  September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San  जिबरील kyu
San Bernardino Mountains , with Mt . San Gorgonio  in the अग्रभूमि  and Big Bear Lake in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain ranges of southern California  , in the प्रशांत coast सीमाएँ  physiographic region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the  कैलिफ़ोर्निया coast सीमाएँ और झूठ between सांता  Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their East-West orientation ,  बनाना उन्हें अनुप्रस्थ to the सामान्य  North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains .
Periodic  तालिका साथ इलेक्ट्रॉन  shells
An electron shell may be thought of  as an कक्षा followed  by electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by  the `` 2 शेल '' ( or `` l शेल '' ) , तब the  `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , and so on farther and farther from the nucleus .
The shell letters K , L , M , ... ,  प्रयुक्त in the  X-ray notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain only a fixed  क्रमांक of electrons : the 1st शेल can थाम up to दो  electrons , the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons , the 3rd shell can hold up to 18 , and 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on .
Since electrons are electrically  आकर्षित to the केंद्रक , an अणु 's electrons होगा generally  occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement : Atoms may have two or  भी तीन  incomplete outer shells .
( See Madelung rule for more  विवरण  . )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these  शेल देखिए इलेक्ट्रॉन विन्यास  .
The electrons in the outermost  occupied शेल ( or शेल ) determine the रासायनिक  properties of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or more subshells , and  प्रत्येक subshell consists of एक or अधिक परमाणु  orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall (  née होगन ; नवम्बर 28 , 1967  – February 8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy , becoming the  1993 संगिनी of the साल  .
She   modeled for clothing companies , including Guess jeans and Lane Bryant .
Smith dropped out of high  स्कूल और थी शादीशुदा  in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul ,  J. हावर्ड मार्शल , 62 सालो उसके वरिष्ठ , resulted in अटकलें कि  she married the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
Following Marshall 's death , Smith began a lengthy  विधिक बैटल over a share of  his estate .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a  सवाल of संघीय क्षेत्राधिकार , और again on  a question of bankruptcy court authority ( now called Stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a  हॉलीवुड , फ्लोरिडा होटल  room as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs .
Within the final six  महीने of उसके जीवन , स्मिथ थी the फ़ोकस of a नवीनीकृत दबायें कवरेज  surrounding the death of her son , Daniel , and the paternity and custody battle over her newborn daughter , Dannielynn .
The is one denomination of  जापानी  yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters known as the `` new script `` , and were also minted from  1949-1958 using `` old-script '' जापानी  characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when , due to the much  उच्चतर मान of the येन , वे यहूद minted in सुनहरा ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice  संयंत्र growing आउट of the जल , साथ `` पाँच येन '' लिखा in कांजी  ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' and the year of issue , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent  कृषि और fisheries , the कुंजी  elements of the Japanese first-sector economy .
Around a hole , there is a  गियर कि represents  industry .
It is the only Japanese coin in circulation to lack Arabic  numerals on either फेस  .
TLC is an American girl group whose repertoire spanned R & B ,  हिप हॉप , आत्मा , दुर्गंध  , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' Thomas , the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a  श्रेणी of spats साथ the विधि , प्रत्येक  other , and the group 's record label .
Initially , TLC  हासिल वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी following  the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
on the  TLC Tip , which sold 6 million copies worldwide .
However , it was their second album , CrazySexyCool , that  catapulted the समूह to superstar औकात  .
CrazySexyCool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA — a first for a female group ,  और आखिरकार  sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five years later , the group released their  तीसरा एल्बम fanmail , जिससे  became the group 's first album to debut at number one and sold more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the highest  grossing दौरे  of all time by a female band .
in 2002 , लिसा  `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car accident in Honduras .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D , which sold 2 million copies  विश्वव्यापी , it प्रदर्शित unreleased vocals  from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine ranked TLC  as एक of the महानतम  musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four number one singles  , चार multi-platinum एल्बम , और चार ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as the seventh most successful act of  the 1990s by बिलबोर्ड  .
In 2008 , the group  थी inducted  into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
That year  it थी भी  listed as the # 25 R & B/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 million records worldwide and they are ranked as the second best selling female group of all time  , और the बेहतरीन selling मादा r & b समूह of  all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in Music , being ranked the number one  सब लड़की समूह on कि सूची  .
Tarzan is a  1999 अमरीकी एनिमेटेड एडवेंचर  film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated  क्लासिक , it is आधारित on the स्टोरी टार्ज़न of the apes by एडगर राइस बरोज  , and is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy , Bob Tzudiker , and Noni White , Tarzan features the voices of Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and  रोजी o'donnell साथ ब्रायन धन्य , तलवार henriksen , वेन नाईट  , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit before the  डिज़्नी slump of the जल्दी 2000s  grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive  एनिमेटेड फिल्मी कभी बना , जबतक  topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It was also the first Disney animated feature to open at #  1 चूंकि pocahontas  .
This was the last major box office  कामयाबी of the डिज़्नी  Renaissance .
Oil Platform P-51 off  the ब्राज़ीलियाई  coast is a semi-submersible platform .
Oil platform Mittelplate  in the  North sea
An oil platform , (  offshore मंच or colloquially आयल रिग ) is a विशाल ढांचा  with facilities to drill wells , to extract and process oil and natural gas , and to temporarily store product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the platform contains  सुविधाएं to हाउस the workforce  as well .
Depending on the circumstances  , the मंच  may be fixed to the ocean floor , may consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote subsea wells  may भी be कनेक्ट to a  platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea  समाधान may consist of एक  or more subsea wells , or of one or more manifold centres for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the killing of animals , usually that of  घरेलू पशुधन  for food .
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water buffalo ( for beef and veal ) , sheep , goats ( for lamb and mutton ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly  मछली इससे the aquaculture  industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House ,  the अध्यक्ष 's आधिकारिक  residence and center of the administration
Under the  संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , the  President of the United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest  राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the संयुक्त राज्य by  influence and recognition .
The president is also the commander-in-chief of  the संयुक्त राज्य हथियारबंद  Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the  चुनावी कॉलेज असफल to पुरस्कार an निरपेक्ष  majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of  the twenty-second amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान in 1951 , no व्यक्ति may  be elected President more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation  , or हटाना इससे दफ्तर  of an incumbent President , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at  तनिक 35 सालो of आयु और a ``  natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as president following the ratification of the United States  संविधान , जिससे  took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For American leaders  पहले इस अनुसमर्थन  , see President of the Continental Congress .
The list does not include any Acting  राष्ट्रपतियों अंतर्गत the  Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have  महरूम 43 लोगों sworn into दफ्तर , और 44 presidencies , as ग्रोवर  Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were  assassinated ( अब्राहम lincoln , जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड , विलियम mckinley , और जॉन F. कैनेडी  ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the  पहला अध्यक्ष , थी उदघाटन in 1789  after a unanimous vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in  दफ्तर साथ 32 दिनों in 1841 , और फ्रैंकलिन  D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after  हैरी ट्रूमैन , थी passed to सीमा the क्रमांक of टाइम्स an व्यक्तिगत  can be elected president .
एंड्रयू जैक्सन , the सातवाँ अध्यक्ष , थी the  first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first elected after women  gained मतदान अधिकारों  in 1920 .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , Benjamin Harrison and George W. Bush – who lost  the लोकप्रिय vote लकिन assumed  office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith , and the current  अध्यक्ष , बराक ओबामा , is the पहला  president of African descent .
Several firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to bottom : An Uzi , An AR-15 , A Heckler & Koch USP  रणनीतिक , a beretta  92FS , and a SIG Mosquito .
Bolt  कार्रवाई  rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle with attached  suppressor  .
A  suppressor , ध्वनि suppressor , or ध्वनि मॉडरेटर , is a यंत्र संलग्न  to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and usually the amount of muzzle flash , generated by firing the weapon .
A suppressor can be used both  साथ a firearm  and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer popularized  by cinematic fiction : the ध्वनि of a प्रक्षेप्य , विशेषकर  one moving faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300  मीटर ) can lessen , or retard , the रपट at the पल of प्रभाव , और बनाएँ  the impression of silence near the target .
the रव  heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel , though subdued , is not silent at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to  reduce the ध्वनि of फायरिंग by slowing the escaping propellant  gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around the beginning of  the 20th सदी  by several inventors .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim , Hiram Percy 's father , and the  आविष्कारक of the कहावत यंत्र गन ) , is credited साथ inventing और selling the पहला commercially  successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave his device the  trademarked  name Maxim Silencer .
The muffler for internal combustion  इंजन थी विकसित in समानांतर साथ the firearm suppressor  by Maxim in the early 20th century , using many of the same techniques to provide quieter-running engines ( in many European countries automobile mufflers are still called silencers ) .
The word silencer  in सन्दर्भ to गन suppressor remains in फैली उपयोग , हालांकि it रै चूंकि गिरे आउट  of favor with some , especially among the firearms industry , being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon , rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage and U.S. legislative language favor the  historically पहले पद  , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms ``  firearm मफलर '' और `` firearm silencer  '' are synonymous .
Suppressors were regularly used by agents of the United States Office of  रणनीतिक सेवाएं ,  who favored the newly designed High Standard HDM .22 Long Rifle pistol during World War II .
OSS Director  William  Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS research  मुख्य स्टेनली लोवेल , डोनोवन ( an बूढ़ा और विश्वसनीय dost of the अध्यक्ष  ) was waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his message , Donovan turned his back and fired ten shots  into a sandbag he था brought साथ उसे , घोषित  what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with an integral suppressor was also used by the American OSS  on clandestine परिचालन  in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
beatrice `` bea '' आर्थर ( may 13 , 1922 – अप्रैल  25 , 2009 ) was an American actress , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the  परिवार और maude , और as डोरोथी zbornak  on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
A stage  अभिनेत्री दोनो पहले और बाद उसके टेलीविज़न कामयाबी , वो जीती the टोनी पुरस्कार लिये  Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance as Vera Charles in the original cast of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series , produced by Digital Frontier and  वितरित by asmik इक्का entertainment in संघ  with Bandai Entertainment .
The film premiered in North America by  बंदाई entertainment on जुलाई 26 , 2011  , and in Australia on July 27 , 2011 in a special exclusive one-off screening .
It was released on September 3 , 2011  in जापानी  .
the फिल्मी थी released on  Blu-ray Disc on November 22 , 2011 for USA , and December 1 , 2011 for Japan .
This film was also released on DVD on November 22 , 2011  ( 2d संस्करण तभी )  .
The film was additionally included with the  प्लेस्टेशन 3 खेल , tekken  Hybrid , and the Nintendo 3DS title , Tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a discussion of nonprofit , voluntary neighborhood  वकालत समूह , देखिए  neighborhood association .
In  the संयुक्त राज्य , a homeowner संघ is a निगम formed  by a real estate developer for the purpose of marketing , managing , and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal  जिम्मेदारी of the संगठन , typically by transferring स्वामित्व of the संघ to the homeowners बाद selling  off a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners  संघ by a आवासीय खरीदार is  typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it .
Most homeowner associations are incorporated ,  और हैं विषय to राज्य statutes  that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations  is minimal , और मुख्यतः takes  the form of laws which are inconsistent from state to state .
Some  राज्य , ऐसे as फ्लोरिडा और कैलिफ़ोर्निया , have a विशाल देह  of homeowner association law , and some states , such as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is  common-interest developments ( cids ) , a श्रेणी कि शामिल planned-unit developments  of single-family homes , condominiums , and cooperative apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner  एसोसिएशन have become  increasingly common in the USA .
The Community Associations Institute trade association estimated that HOAs governed  24.8 लाख अमरीकी घरों और 62  million residents in 2010 .
A  prize-winning lilac-and-white  Silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have been developed since its  domestication ca . 5000 bc  .
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose , ranging from show breeds with  long , बहती बाल to those in  use as model organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs ,  जिससे रूप the आधार लिये कुछ of  the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were  primarily रखा as agricultural भण्डार  for food , and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century , the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the  विकास of appealing  pets .
To this end , various competitive  प्रजनन संगठन यहूद संस्थापित  by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders  संघ , an adjunct to the अमरीकी खरगोश प्रजनक  Association , is the governing body in the United States and Canada .
The British  cavy परिषद governs cavy  clubs in the United Kingdom .
Similar organizations exist in Australia ( Australian National Cavy Council )  और नई जीलैंड ( नई जीलैंड  Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its own  मानक of पूर्णता और  determines which breeds are eligible for showing .
New breeds continue to emerge  in the 21st सदी  .
Though there are  अनेक breeds of गिनी सुअर , तभी  a few breeds are commonly found on the show table as pets .
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found  अवांछनीय by प्रजनक or यहूद करवाया  to be pleasant pets regardless of how well they meet the breed standard of perfection .
The short hair , Abyssinian , Peruvian and  sheltie ( उर्फ silkie ) breeds हैं those सबसे अक्सर  seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of Guinea pigs .
In addition to their standard form  , nearly सब breeds आइये  in a Satin variant .
Satins , due to their hollow hair shafts , possess coats of a special  gloss और चमक  .
However , there is growing evidence  कि the जीनों जिम्मेदार लिये the  Satin coat also can cause severe bone problems , including Osteodystrophy and Paget 's disease .
Showing Satin variations is prohibited by some cavy breeders ' associations  क्युकी of एनिमल welfare कारण  .
All cavy breeds have some shared general  मानकों : the सिर  profile should be rounded , with large eyes and large , smooth ears .
the देह चाहिए be दमदार और of कॉम्पैक्ट निर्माण .
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly  पारिभाषित और thorough  from root to tip .
These standards are best met by long  स्थापित , commonly करवाया breeds , as उनके प्रजनक have था पर्याप्त  time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness  is rarely मिले by अन्य than  the smooth coated breeds , which have had well established , separate breeding lines for different colours .
State schools ( also known as  पब्लिक स्कूलों or सरकारी स्कूलों ) generally refer to प्राथमिक  or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The term may also refer to institutions of  post-secondary शिक्षा वित्तपोषित  , in whole or in part , and overseen by government .
The  राइबोसोम assembles polymeric  protein molecules whose sequence is controlled by the sequence of messenger RNA molecules .
This is  जरूरी by सब जीना कोशिकाएं  and associated viruses .
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and  the यूनानी सोम , अर्थ `` देह '' ) is a विशाल और जटिल आणविक  machine , found within all living cells , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (  mrna ) अणुओं  .
ribosomes consist of दो प्रमुख subunits—the छोटी ribosomal  subunit reads the mRNA , while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is  रचित of एक or अधिक ribosomal rna ( rrna ) अणुओं  and a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may  be कॉपी अनेक टाइम्स  into messenger RNA ( mRNA ) chains of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and use it as a template for determining the correct  अनुक्रम of अमीनो acids in a  particular protein .
Amino acids are selected , collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ) , which  डालें एक भाग  of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The attached  अमीनो acids हैं तब linked  together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is produced , it can then 'fold ' to  उपज a विशिष्ट कार्यात्मक  three-dimensional structure .
A ribosome is made from complexes of RNAs and proteins and is  इसलिए a ribonucleoprotein  .
Each ribosome is divided  into दो subunits : the  smaller subunit binds to the mRNA pattern , while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amino acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule , these  दो subunits विभाजित  apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase  कार्यकलाप कि कड़ी अमीनो acids साथ is performed  by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size , sequence ,  ढांचा , और the  ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill bacteria by  inhibiting उनके ribosomes  , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a single mRNA  कड़ी at एक समय , प्रत्येक `` पढना ''  its sequence and producing a corresponding protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble  अनेक सुविधाएँ of those in जीवाणु  , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de Duve , and George Emil Palade  यहूद jointly awarded the नोबेल पुरस्कार in physiology or आयुर्विज्ञान ,  in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009  थी awarded to venkatraman रामकृष्णन , थामस  A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The simplified internal  ढांचा of a हरितलवक
Overview of the Calvin cycle and  कार्बन  fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that  बदलें कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और अन्य  compounds into glucose .
These  प्रतिक्रियाएँ occur in the stroma ,  the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take  the light-dependent प्रतिक्रियाएँ  and perform further chemical processes on them .
There are  तीन phases to the light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ , collectively पुकारा the calvin साईकिल : कार्बन  fixation , reduction reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite  इसके नाम , इस  process occurs only when light is available .
Plants do not carry out  the calvin  cycle by night .
They , instead , release sucrose into  the फ्लोएम इससे उनके  starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and  crassulacean एसिड  Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or perfect square is an integer that is the  वर्गाकार of an पूर्णांक ;  in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For example , 9 is a square  क्रमांक , चूंकि  it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the  वर्गाकार of a क्रमांक is नहीं the उत्पाद , लकिन the  equivalent exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name square number comes from the  नाम of the  shape ; see below .
Square numbers  हैं non-negative  .
another रास्ता of saying कि a ( non-negative  ) number is a square number , is that its square roots are again integers .
For example , = ±3  , so 9 is  a square number .
A positive  पूर्णांक कि रै no पूर्ण  square divisors except 1 is called square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th square number  is , साथ होने the  zeroth square .
The concept of square can be  विस्तारित to कुछ अन्य क्रमांक  systems .
If rational numbers are included ,  तब a वर्गाकार is the अनुपात of दो वर्गाकार  integers , and , conversely , the ratio of two square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers up to and including , where the  अभिव्यक्ति represents the मंजिल of  the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in  the राजनैतिक इतिहास of the संयुक्त राज्य कि reflected  a sense of national purpose and a desire for unity among Americans in the aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars .
The era saw the  पतन of the federalist पार्टी और an समाप्त to the कड़वा दलगत विवादों  between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System .
President James  मुनरो endeavored to downplay  partisan affiliation in making his nominations , with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating parties altogether from national politics .
The period is so  closely संबद्ध साथ मुनरो 's प्रेसिडेंसी ( 1817–1825  ) and his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the end of the  federalist पार्टी as अमेरिका began  to develop after the War of 1812 .
जबकि अमेरिका थी experiencing  growth and prosperity after the war with Britain , this era also marks the first instance of economic troubles in the growing United States .
mirroring the अमरीकी प्रणाली प्रस्तावित by  Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis .
While the term “Era of Good  feelings” is प्रायः viewed साथ विडंबना क्युकी of the राजनैतिक  turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of “good feelings” is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in which the  राजनैतिक माहौल  was strained and divisive , especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party .
The phrase “Era of Good Feelings” was coined by Benjamin Russell , in the Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to  बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स  as part of his good will tour of America .
mariel मार्गरेट ``  Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a retired American professional soccer player .
Hamm played many years as a forward for the United  राज्य महिलाओं 's नेशनल सॉकर टोली और थी a  founding member of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , more than any other player , male or female , in the history of soccer and is the third most capped female player in  सॉकर इतिहास पीछे kristine लिली और क्रिस्टी rampone , appearing in 275  international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that  पुरस्कार थी दिए ( in 2001 और 2002 ) , और is सूचीबद्ध  as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chosen by Pelé ) .
She was inducted into the  नेशनल सॉकर हॉल of कीर्ति  as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and  जीवन और appeared in the एचबीओ वृत्तचित्र हिम्मत to सपना  : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post  columnist माइकल wilbon पुकारा  Hamm , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15 years . ''
Hamm takes a corner  लात .
The New York Red Bulls is an American professional soccer team based in Harrison , New  जर्सी , representing the नई यॉर्क महानगर  area .
The team competes in the Eastern  सम्मेलन  of Major League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS ,  having competed in the लीग चूंकि इसके  inception .
The team was a founding  सदस्य of mls ( 1996 )  , but has gone through several name changes .
The team was originally known as the  नई york/new जर्सी metrostars  through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season , the team was  ज्ञात as the metrostars  .
On March 9 , 2006 , the  टोली थी बेची to रेड  Bull GmbH , leading to the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any  significant ट्रॉफी ( सहित  regular season , playoffs , and knockout competition ) since inception .
The team 's best result in the MLS was the MLS Cup  फाइनल in 2008  .
In the US Open Cup , the MetroStars reached  तीन semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , पहले  reaching their first final in 2003 , losing 1–0 to the Chicago Fire .
On August  26 , 2000 , the metros ' क्लिंट mathis  set an MLS record by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
Some well-known players that have played for the team include Giovanni Savarese , Tim Howard , Tony Meola , Tab Ramos , Alexi Lalas , Clint Mathis , Jozy Altidore , Michael Bradley , Claudio Reyna , Eddie Pope , Roberto Donadoni , Lothar Matthäus , Adolfo Valencia , Youri Djorkaeff , Amado Guevara , Juan Pablo Ángel , Thierry Henry , Juninho  pernambucano , जन गुन्नार solli , राफेल  Márquez , and Tim Cahill .
The team has also had  well-known कोच , सहित कार्लोस queiroz , कार्लोस अल्बर्टो  Parreira , Bora Milutinović , Bob Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans Backe .
confucianism , taoism , और buddhism हैं एक , a  painting in the litang style portraying three men laughing by a river stream , 12th century , Song Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world , or in  अनेक देशों  , is difficult due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin with , the religious beliefs , practices , and identities of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the world 's Buddhists by any measure ) often blend Buddhism with other traditions  सहित confucianism , the चाइनीज लोक  religion , Daoism , Shinto , and Korean shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making   it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An additional challenge is the hostility of several national  सरकारें ( प्रायः कम्युनिस्ट ones ऐसे  as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these countries  may प्रोत्साहित the under-reporting or non-reporting  of religious adherence , resulting in official totals that may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide Buddhist population range from 350 million to over one billion , but cluster nearer to the  पहला फिगर .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 )  suggests a फिगर  of 397 million .
By major  शाखाओं , the संख्याएँ  are as follows:
( 1 )  महायान buddhism , सहित  East Asian Buddhism , with no fewer than 185 million adherents , and possibly several times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the  predominant रूप of buddhism  practiced in China , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism , with no fewer than 125  लाख adherents  .
This is the  predominant रूप  of Buddhism practiced in Cambodia , Thailand , Laos , Sri Lanka , and Burma .
( 3 )  वज्रयान buddhism  , with approximately 20 million adherents .
This form  predominates  in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various  territories भीतर कया is अभी पश्चिमी चीन , वज्रयान is परंपरागत to निश्चित  regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric  buddhism , लकिन इस is imprecise  , as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos , Burma , Bhutan , and Mongolia )  have unambiguous बौद्ध  majorities .
depending on कैसा एक calculates चाइनीज और अन्य ईस्ट एशियाई adherents  , this figure might expand to include several more countries .
In addition , Buddhism is the state  धर्म of कंबोडिया  and Bhutan , and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
in उत्तरी इण्डिया और नेपाल , the  land where Buddhism was born , the religion severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of northern  इण्डिया , or to अन्य कारकों , remains  controversial .
See the article Decline of Buddhism in  इण्डिया  .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 – August 2 , 1876 ) , better known as Wild Bill Hickok , was a folk hero of  the अमरीकी  Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his reputation as a lawman , provided the basis for his fame , although some  of उसके reported  exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice , first working as  a stagecoach ड्राइवर , पहले he became a lawman in the frontier  territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He  लड़ा लिये the संघ फौज दौरान the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध , और gained  publicity after the war as a scout , marksman , actor , and professional gambler .
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling ,  जिससे easily  overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the Nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in Deadwood  , डकोटा territory ( अभी  South Dakota ) .
Artist 's  धारणा of the  Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars .
The rover landed on Mars  in अगस्त 2012  .
A Mars rover is an automated motor vehicle which propels itself across the  सतह of the ग्रह  Mars after landing .
Rovers have several advantages over  stationary landers : वे जाँचें अधिक territory , वे can be निर्देशित  to interesting features , they can place themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of how to perform very remote robotic vehicle control .
There have  महरूम चार  successful robotically operated Mars rovers .
the जेट  Propulsion Laboratory managed the Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the Mars Exploration Rover mission  's क्रियाशील अवसर रोवर और  inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or more  accurately , an ऑडिट of वित्तीय कथन , is the  verification of the financial statements of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute assurance , that the financial  कथन हैं प्रस्तुत fairly , in सब सामग्री  respects , and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements , which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management , thus increase user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently  reduce the लागत of पूंजी of the preparer  of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing  लेखपाल जो हैं  experts in financial reporting .
The financial audit is one of many assurance functions provided  by हिसाब  firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal  auditors , जो do नहीं attest to वित्तीय  reports but focus mainly on the internal controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose to place  सीमित रिलायंस on the कार्य  of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an  संगठन , इसलिए होता संभावित to reduce  of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the International  auditing और परख मानकों फलक ( iaasb ) is माना as the बेंचमार्क लिये ऑडिट प्रक्रम  .
Almost all jurisdictions require auditors to follow  the isa or a  local variation of the ISA .
Dollar coins have been minted in the  संयुक्त राज्य  in gold , silver , and base metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar , although purists insist that a  डालर is नहीं चांदी जबतक it contains  some of that metal .
Silver dollars ,  the पहला डालर सिक्का  issue , were minted beginning in 1794 .
सुनहरा डॉलर  and gold-colored dollars have also been produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and  अध्यक्षीय डॉलर हैं प्रायः referred  to as `` golden dollars '' .
In modern  टाइम्स , डालर सिक्के have नहीं  been very popular in the United States .
Despite  प्रयत्न by the सरकारी to प्रचार  their use , most Americans currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In straight  और स्तर  flight lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ) .
In a banked turn of 60° ,  लिफ्ट बराबरी दोगुना  the weight ( L=2W ) .
The  पायलट अनुभवों  2g and a doubled weight .
The steeper  the बैंको ,  the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate  इससे शून्य to in 0.86 सेकेंड  .
This is a  आड़ा त्वरण of 5.3 g. संयुक्त साथ  the vertical g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for  accelerations लगा as  weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not  a फ़ोर्स , प्रति  se , but a force per unit mass .
Since such a force is perceived as a  वज़न , कोई g-force can be वर्णित as a `` वज़न प्रति ईकाई  mass '' ( see the synonym specific weight ) .
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass , and ( save for certain  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ोर्स प्रभाव ) is the कारण of  an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an object is  due to the वेक्टर योग of non-gravitational  forces acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed proper  accelerations , और it is तभी ये कि  are measured in g-force units .
They cause stresses  और  strains on objects .
Because of these strains , large g-forces  may be destructive  .
Gravitation acting alone  करता नहीं उपज a g-force , भी हालांकि  g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
यूँ , the  standard gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on  the धरती 's सतह  is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from  the मैदान ensures कि an ऑब्जेक्ट at बाकी on the धरती  's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , which is the path that the object would follow when falling freely toward the Earth 's center .
Objects allowed to  free-fall in an inertial trajectory  under the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions  अंदर  a freely falling elevator falling toward the Earth 's center ( in vacuum ) , or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are examples of coordinate acceleration ( a change in velocity  ) बगैर a सनसनी of वज़न  .
The  अनुभव of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however  it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the  अनुपस्थिति of गुरुत्वाकर्षक फ़ील्ड , or in दिशानिर्देश at सही कोण to उन्हें  , proper and coordinate accelerations are the same , and any coordinate acceleration must be produced by a corresponding g-force acceleration .
An example here is a  प्रक्षेपास्त्र in फ़्री स्पेस , in जिससे  simple changes in velocity are produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a lituus , the curved wand often  प्रयुक्त as a प्रतीक of  augury on Roman coins
The augur was a  पुजारी और आधिकारिक in the शास्त्रीय संसार  , especially ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to interpret the will of the  देवताओं by अध्ययन the उड़ान of पक्षियों  : whether they are flying in groups or alone , what noises they make as they fly , direction of flight and what kind of birds they are .
This was known as ``  लेने  the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any  प्रमुख undertaking in रोमन society—public  or private—including matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the  महत्व of the augurs : `` जो करता नहीं जान कि इस नगर थी संस्थापित तभी बाद  taking the auspices , that everything in war and in peace , at home and abroad , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent  जातियाँ in  southeastern Michigan .
It is the second largest city in Oakland  काउंटी in the u.S. राज्य of  Michigan .
Its  जनसांख्यिकी थी 79,740  at the 2010 census .
It is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan Detroit and is also northeast  of शहर ऐन arbor  .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the United States ,  as खूब as in the राज्य  of Michigan .
In 2010  , the क्षेत्रफल क्रमित as the  30th safest city in America .
Although the two cities have separate services and addresses , Farmington and  farmington पहाड़ियाँ हैं प्रायः विचार  of as the same community .
Features of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage  सिनेमा , numerous रेस्तरां , exotic car dealerships  , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park .
There are several historical sites including the Longacre House and the  राज्यपाल warner mansion  .
दोनो  cities are served by Farmington Public Schools .
Farmington Hills  serves as a प्रमुख कारोबार बीच  for the greater Detroit area .
present-day छाप  of a Late Bronze Age seal
कस्बा मुहर (  matrix ) of Náchod from 1570
A seal is a  यंत्र लिये बनाना an छाप in मोम , मिट्टी , पेपर  , or some other medium , including an embossment on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The  असली purpose थी to authenticate a दस्तावेज़ , a wrapper लिये एक ऐसे as  a modern envelope , or the cover of a container or package holding valuables or other objects .
The  sealing प्रक्रम is essentially  that of a mould , with the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred to as the seal matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or , more  rarely , the sealing  ) .
If the impression is made purely as a  राहत resulting इससे the वृहद दबाव on the पेपर जहाँ the ऊँची भाग  of the matrix touch , the seal is known as a dry seal ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of a seal may be extended to include  रबर stamps , or लिखने निर्दिष्ट शब्द  ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United States , the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in  मोनोक्रोम or रंग )  , which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the  seals of the u.S. राज्य appear on  their respective state flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may well feature in such contexts as well as  on seals , the मुहर डिज़ाइन in इसके entirety rarely appears  as an emblem .
The study of seals is known as  sigillography or sphragistics  .
Groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag ,  murmeltiertag ) is a  day celebrated on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow , and the  शीत मौसम होगा continue लिये छह अधिक सप्ताह  .
Modern  कस्टम of the अवकाश involve जश्न जहाँ  early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog emerging from its burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge ,  सोशल कार्यक्रम in जिससे खाना is परोसा , भाषणों हैं बना , और एक  or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment .
The  पेन्सिलवेनिया जर्मनी dialect is the तभी भाषा बोला at the इवेंट , और those जो बोलो  English pay a penalty , usually in the form of a nickel , dime , or quarter per word spoken , with the money put into a bowl in the center of the table .
The largest Groundhog  दिन जश्न  is held in Punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular tradition , received widespread attention as a result of the 1993 film  groundhog दिन , जिससे थी नियत in punxsutawney , pa ( हालांकि  filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High  रेज़ोल्यूशन  image of Tampa Bay region
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical  जलवायु ( koppen cfa ) , साथ गरम और आर्द्र ग्रीष्म साथ बारंबार thunderstorms  and drier winters with freezing temperatures occurring every 2–3 years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls  in the महीने of जून through  September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being in hardiness zone 10 , which is about the northern limit of where coconut palms  और  royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range between 65 and 95  °f ( 18 और 35 °c )  year round .
हालांकि ज्ञात लिये hot ग्रीष्म , tampa  's official high has never reached 100 °F ( 38 °C ) – the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 °F ( 37 °C ) .
St.  पीटर्सबर्ग 's all-time रिकार्ड  high is exactly 100 °F ( 38 °C ) .
Pinellas County lies on a peninsula between Tampa Bay and the Gulf  of मैक्सिको , और much of the नगर of  Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to large bodies of water both  नरमपंथियों temperatures और introduces विशाल amounts of  humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities  farthest इससे the coast have larger तापमान  ranges , both during a single day and throughout the seasons of the year .
A diagram of  the इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  spectrum , showing various properties across the range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of  इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण  .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum  '' of an ऑब्जेक्ट रै a अलग अर्थ  , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering  wavelengths इससे हज़ारों of किलोमीटर bas to a भिन्न  of the size of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the  vicinity of the प्लांक लंबाई , हालांकि in principle the वर्णक्रम  is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing  interactions , as तरीके to पढ़ाई और characterize  matter .
In addition ,  विकिरण इससे विभिन्न भाग  of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his  आद्याक्षर , fdr , थी the 32nd अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य ( 1933–1945 ) और a सेंट्रल फिगर in  world events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned  अमरीकी राजनीती बाद 1932 , as उसके घरेलू नीतियों  defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy  लोकप्रिय सोंग `` प्रसन्न दिनों हैं यहाँ again  `` as his campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by  उसके निजी विजय over पोलियो , fdr 's unfailing  optimism and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in  अग्रणी the allies विरूद्ध जर्मनी और  Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a  profusion of कार्यपालिका आदेश कि instituted the नई सौदे —a किस्में  of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
the अर्थव्यवस्था improved rapidly  from 1933 to 1937 , but then relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any  considerable विधान ; it abolished अनेक of the राहत कार्यक्रम  when unemployment diminished during World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85 , except for the regulation of Wall Street by the  प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग , जिससे  still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major  surviving कार्यक्रम शामिल the संघीय जमा  Insurance Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion  of चीन और the आक्रामकता of नाजी जर्मनी , fdr दिया दमदार राजनयिक और वित्तीय support  to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make America the ``  आर्सेनल of लोकतंत्र  `` which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March  1941 , रूज़वेल्ट , साथ congressional  approval , provided Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after  the जापानी आक्रमण  on Pearl Harbor on December 7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the  mobilization of the u.S.  economy to support the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader ,  रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall युद्ध रणनीति on दो fronts कि ended in the  defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 Roosevelt  ordered the internment of  100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % ,  राहत कार्यक्रम largely ended , और the औद्योगिक अर्थव्यवस्था  grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American political scene not only during the twelve  सालो of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी , लकिन भी लिये दशकों afterward  .
He orchestrated the  realignment of मतदाता  that created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united labor unions , big city machines , white ethnics ,  अफ़्रीकी अमेरिकी और ग्रामीण  white Southerners .
He also influenced the later creation of the United Nations and  bretton  Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along  साथ अब्राहम lincoln और जार्ज  Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological position as  `` a छोटी  left of center . ''
A Joint  कमेटी is a पद in राजनीती  that is used to refer to a committee made up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature .
In  अन्य contexts , it  refers to a committee with members from more than one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is  इसलिए exclusively the डोमेन of the राज्य to परमिट , prohibit , or वरना विनियमित  commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public order crime , a  अपराधों कि disrupts the अनुक्रम  of a community .
It was at one time considered to be a vagrancy  अपराधों .
Currently ,  नेवाडा is the तभी राज्य to allow वेश्यालय  prostitution , the terms of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently contain  क्रियाशील brothels  .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark  काउंटी ( जिससे contains the लास vegas–paradise महानगर  area ) , Washoe County ( which contains Reno ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
The other counties  theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति  , but some of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute  remain illegal अंतर्गत नेवाडा  law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other  देशों , वेश्यावृति in the संयुक्त राज्य can be  divided into three broad categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the  संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका , प्रायः बस referred to as the अमरीकी  flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence  इससे the किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और  became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag  शामिल the `` सितारों और धारियाँ '' , `` बूढ़ा महिमा `` ,  and `` The Star-Spangled Banner . ''
India is a federal  संघ  of states comprising twenty-eight states and seven union territories .
The states and  territories हैं  further subdivided into districts and so on .
Congressional districts for  the 113th  United States Congress
2010  जनसांख्यिकी  change:
Change in apportionment of congressional districts ,  starting in 2013 , as a परिणाम of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी  .
2000 जनसांख्यिकी  change:
Change in  apportionment of  congressional districts , from 2003 to 2013 , as a result of the 2000 census .
This is a  पूरा सूची of congressional  districts for representation in the United States House of Representatives .
The quantity ( apportionment ) and boundaries ( redistricting ) of  जिले हैं संकल्पित बाद प्रत्येक जनसांख्यिकी , हालांकि  in some cases states have changed the boundaries more than once per census .
This list includes the 435 current and over 200 obsolete  जिले  .
For example , since the 2000  जनसांख्यिकी , नेब्रास्का  has had three districts , but it used to have as many as six .
In the first decade of the  twenty-first सदी , टेक्सास था 32 जिले , लकिन रै  since added four due to reapportionment as a result of the 2010 census .
Other states have lost districts since  the क्रमांक of congressional  seats has been set at 435 by statute .
Also included here are non-voting delegations : six current  और चार obsolete  .
The  सीमाएँ of  districts often shift with each redistricting .
Over time  , the प्रदेश और जनसांख्यिकी  represented in a district can change substantially .
Furthermore ,  जिले sometimes retain  the same boundaries while changing their district numbers .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an American singer ,  songwriter , रिकार्ड निर्माता , अभिनेत्री  , and philanthropist .
अंतर्गत the मार्गदर्शन of कोलंबिया रिकॉर्ड कार्यपालिका टॉमी mottola  , Carey released her self-titled debut studio album Mariah Carey in 1990 ; it went multi-platinum and spawned four consecutive number one singles on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
Following her marriage to Mottola in 1993 and success with hit records Emotions ( 1991 ) , Music Box ( 1993 ) , and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ) ,  कैरी थी स्थापित as कोलंबिया 's  highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music history when its  दूसरी सिंगल `` एक मीठी दिन `` , a  duet with Boyz II Men , spent a record sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100 , and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording of the album ,  कैरी began to deviate इससे उसके r & b और  pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop .
This musical change became evident with the release of Butterfly ( 1997 ) , at which time  कैरी  had separated from Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 , and signed a  record-breaking $ 100 लाख रिकॉर्डिंग  contract with Virgin Records .
Before the release of  उसके पहला विशेषता फिल्मी glitter ( 2001 ) , वो suffered  a physical and emotional breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion .
Following the film 's poor reception , she was bought out of her recording contract for $ 50 million ,  जिससे led to a मनाही in उसके करियर  .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002 , and  बाद an unsuccessful काल ,  returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second single `` We Belong Together `` became her most successful single of the 2000s , and was later  नामित `` सोंग of the दशक '' by बिलबोर्ड  .
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough  प्रदर्शन पुरस्कार '' at the ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी  Festival , and Black Reel and NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a career spanning over two decades , Carey has sold more than 200 million records worldwide ,  बनाना उसके एक of the best-selling  music artists of all time .
In 1998 , she was honored as  the संसार  's best-selling recording artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards .
Carey was also named the best-selling female artist of the  मिलेनियम in 2000  .
According to the  रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग  Association of America , she is the third best-selling female artist in the United States , with 63.5 million certified albums .
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ) , Carey gained her eighteenth  क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the संयुक्त राज्य , अधिक than  any other solo artist .
In 2012 , Carey was ranked second on VH1 's list of the `` 100 Greatest Women in  म्यूज़िक '' .
Aside from her commercial  accomplishments , कैरी रै  won five Grammy Awards , 17 World Music Awards , 11 American Music Awards , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme ''  by the गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड , वो is famed लिये उसके  five-octave vocal range , power , melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register .
stratocumulus  stratiformis cumulogenitus
In meteorology , a cloud is a visible mass of  द्रव droplets or frozen crystals  made of water or various chemicals suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body .
These  निलंबित अणु हैं  also known as aerosols .
Clouds in  धरती 's माहौल  are studied in the cloud physics branch of meteorology .
Two processes , possibly acting together , can lead to air becoming  संतृप्त ; कूलिंग  the air or adding water vapor to the air .
In general , precipitation will fall to the  सतह ; an एक्सेप्शन  is virga , which evaporates before reaching the surface .
The international cloud classification system is based on the fact clouds in their most basic forms can show free-convective upward growth like cumulus , appear in non-convective  परतदार चादरें ऐसे as स्ट्रेट्स , or लो the रूप of पतला तंतुमय wisps  , as in the case of cirrus .
Prefixes are used in  कनेक्शन साथ बादल to एक्स्प्रेस  variations or complexities in these basic forms or to specify middle or high altitude ranges .
These include strato- for low clouds with limited convection that form mostly in uneven layers , cumulo- for  जटिल highly-convective तूफ़ान बादल , nimbo- लिये मोटा परतदार बादल of कुछ  complexity that can produce moderate to heavy precipitation , alto- for middle clouds , and cirro- for high clouds ; the latter two of which may be of simple or moderately complex structure .
Whether or not a cloud is low ,  मध्य , or ऊँची स्तर depends on कैसा दूर  above the ground its base forms .
Cloud types with significant vertical extent can form in the low or middle altitude ranges  depending on the नमी सामग्री of the एयर  .
Clouds in the troposphere have Latin names due to the popular adaptation of Luke Howard 's  बादल categorization  system , which began to spread in popularity during December 1802 .
Synoptic surface weather observations use code  संख्याएँ to रिकार्ड और रपट the प्रकार of tropospheric बादल दृश्य  at each scheduled observation time based on the height and physical appearance of the clouds .
While a majority of clouds form in Earth 's troposphere  , वहीँ हैं अवसरों जब  clouds in the stratosphere and mesosphere can be observed .
These three main layers of the atmosphere  जहाँ बादल may be देखी हैं  collectively known as the homosphere .
Above this lies the thermosphere and exosphere , which  साथ मेक up the  heterosphere that marks the transition to outer space .
Clouds have been observed on other planets and moons within the Solar System , but , due to their different temperature characteristics , they are composed of other substances  ऐसे as मिथेन , अमोनिया , और sulfuric एसिड  .
Galveston County is a county located in the U.S.  राज्य of टेक्सास भीतर the houston–sugar land–baytown  metropolitan area .
As of the 2010 census ,  the जनसांख्यिकी  was 291,309 .
Its county seat  is galveston  .
League City is the largest city in Galveston  काउंटी in  terms of population ; URL_http between 2000 and 2005 it surpassed Galveston as the county 's largest city .
Galveston  काउंटी थी संस्थापित  in 1838 .
nassau
Freeport  , बहामा
This  is a सूची  of cities in the Bahamas .
The following table lists the city or town name , the geographic coordinates , the population as of the  1990 जनसांख्यिकी , an अनुमान of the जनसांख्यिकी as of 2009  , and the island name .
The Big Ten Conference , formerly Western Conference and Big Nine  सम्मेलन ,  is the oldest Division I college athletic conference in the United States .
Its twelve member institutions ( which are  primarily फ्लैगशिप शोध विश्वविद्यालयों in उनके संबंधित राज्य , well-regarded academically  , and with relatively large student enrollment ) are located primarily in the Midwest , stretching from Nebraska in the west to Penn State in the east .
The  सम्मेलन competes  in the NCAA 's Division I ; its football teams compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) , formerly known as Division I-A , the highest level of NCAA competition in that sport .
Member schools of the Big Ten ( or , in two cases , their parent university systems ) also are members of the Committee on  संस्थागत सहयोग , a अग्रणी शैक्षणिक  and research consortium .
Despite the conference 's name , the Big Ten actually consists of 12 schools , following the addition  of the पेन्सिलवेनिया राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों in 1993  and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in 2011 .
In 2014 , the  सम्मेलन होगा  expand to 14 members with the additions of the University of Maryland , College Park and Rutgers , The State University of New Jersey .
It is not to be confused with the Big 12 Conference , which  रै तभी टेन स्कूलों और represents  a different region of the country .
Single Malt Scotch is single malt whisky made in Scotland using a pot still distillation process at a single  डिस्टिलरी , साथ malted जौ as the तभी  grain ingredient .
As with any Scotch whisky , a single malt Scotch must be distilled in Scotland and matured in oak casks in Scotland for at least three years (  सबसे सिंगल malts हैं matured longer ) .
`` Malt '' indicates that the  व्हिस्की is आसुत  from a `` malted '' grain .
Several types of  दाने can be malted ( लिये उदाहरण , जौ , rye और गेहूं हैं सब दाने जिससे  can be malted ) ; however , in the case of single malt Scotch , barley is always the only grain used .
`` Single '' indicates that all the malts in the bottle  आइये इससे a सिंगल डिस्टिलरी  .
bottlings containing malt व्हिस्की इससे  multiple distilleries are called `` blended malt `` .
Until the Scotch Whisky Regulations 2009 ( SWR 2009 ) , the word `` blended '' only appeared ( in the context of Scotch whisky ) on bottles of whisky that contained a mixture of both  जौ और non-barley अनाज व्हिस्की , लकिन इस is no longer the मामला  .
Under the terminology established by the SWR 2009 , a `` blended malt Scotch whisky '' is a mixture of single malt Scotch whiskies , not a mixture of malted barley whisky and non-barley whisky ;  those हैं पुकारा `` blended स्कॉच  whisky '' , without the word `` malt '' .
The term `` blended malt '' replaced `` vatted malt  '' प्रयुक्त अंतर्गत the prior  labelling conventions .
The age statement on a  बोतल of सिंगल malt  Scotch is the number of years the whisky spent maturing in cask .
As very few whiskies are bottled from a single cask the age statement  reflects the आयु of the youngest malt in the मिक्सर .
A texture may be arranged so as to , `` closely approach the single-object status of fused-ensemble timbres , for  उदाहरण , the खूबसूरत 'northern लाइट्स ' कॉर्ड ... , in a बहुत दिलचस्प वितरण  of pitches , produces a fused sound supported by a suspended cymbal roll `` ( Erickson ( 1975 ) , p.166 & 168 ) .
In contrast to more traditional musical textures , sound mass composition ``  minimizes the महत्व of व्यक्तिगत pitches in वरीयता लिये  texture , timbre , and dynamics as primary shapers of gesture and impact . ''
Developed from the modernist tone clusters and  स्प्रेड to orchestral लिखने by the लेट 1950s  and 1960s , sound-mass `` obscures the boundary between sound and noise `` ( Edwards 2001 , pp . 326–27 ) .
Techniques  जिससे may बनाएँ or be प्रयुक्त साथ ध्वनि द्रव्यमान शामिल विस्तारित  techniques such as muted brass or strings , flutter tonguing , wide vibrato , extreme ranges , and glissandos .
Composers and works include Barbara Kolb , Pauline Oliveros ' Sound Patterns for chorus (  1961 ) , norma beecroft 's इससे सपनो of पीतल लिये कोरस (  1963–1964 ) , and Nancy Van de Vate .
Beecroft ``  टुकड़ा व्यक्तिगत pitches in एहसान of a सामूहिक  timbre through the use of vocal and instrumental clusters , choral speech , narrator , and a wash of sounds from an electronic tape . ''
(  ibid  )
A very early example is the opening of Jean-Féry Rebel 's ballet Les Elémens ( 1737–38 ) , where chaos is represented by a gradually cumulating orchestral cluster of all seven  टीप of the d नाबालिग स्केल ( henck  2004 , pp . 52–54 ) .
A later example is the third movement of Ruth Crawford Seeger 's String Quartet 1931 ( Nonesuch H-71280 ) while more recently Phill Niblock 's  अनेक ड्रोन आधारित म्यूज़िक serves as an उदाहरण  .
The use of `` chords approaching timbres '' begins with Debussy and Edgard Varèse often carefully scored individual instrumental parts so that they would fuse into one ensemble timbre or sound mass (  एरिक्सन 1975 , pp . 18 और 21  ) .
Other examples include European `` textural '' compositions of the  fifties और sixties ऐसे as krzysztof penderecki 's threnody  to the Victims of Hiroshima ( 1959 ) and György Ligeti 's works featuring micropolyphony in works like Atmosphères ( 1961 ) and his Requiem ( 1963-65 ) .
Other  composers साथ works using इस तकनीक शामिल  Henryk Górecki , Karel Husa , Witold Lutosławski , Kazimierz Serocki , and Steven Stucky .
Sound mass techniques also appear in the music of  जार्ज crumb ( anon . n.d.  ) .
Students attending a lecture on linear algebra at the Helsinki  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Technology
Pupils  in ग्रामीण  Sudan , 2002
A student is a learner , or someone who attends an  शैक्षणिक  institution .
In  कुछ राष्ट्र , the अंग्रेज़ी पद ( or इसके cognate in another भाषा  ) is reserved for those who attend university , while a schoolchild under the age of eighteen is called a pupil in English ( or an equivalent in other languages ) , although in the United States a person enrolled in grades K–12 is often called a student .
in इसके widest उपयोग , छात्र  is used for anyone who is learning .
Australia is a continent  comprising मेनलैंड  Australia , Tasmania , New Guinea , Seram , possibly Timor , and neighbouring islands .
The  महाद्वीप is sometimes ज्ञात in  technical contexts by the names Sahul , Australinea or Meganesia , to distinguish it from the Australian mainland .
It is  the smallest of the सात  traditional continents in the English conception .
New Zealand is not part of the continent of Australia , but of  the पृथक , submerged  continent of Zealandia .
Zealandia and Australia are both  भाग of the wider regions  known as Australasia and Oceania .
The  महाद्वीप of ऑस्ट्रेलिया झूठ on a महाद्वीपीय शेल्फ overlain by उथले  seas which divide it into several landmasses — the Arafura Sea and Torres Strait between mainland Australia and New Guinea , and Bass Strait between mainland Australia and Tasmania .
When sea levels were lower during the Pleistocene ice age , including  the पिछला glacial अधिकतम परिचय 18,000 bc , वे यहूद कनेक्ट  by dry land .
During the past ten thousand years , rising sea levels overflowed the lowlands and separated the continent into today 's low-lying  arid to semi-arid मेनलैंड और the दो mountainous आइलैंड्स  of New Guinea and Tasmania .
Geologically , a continent extends to the edge of its continental shelf , so  the now-separate आइलैंड्स हैं माना  part of the continent .
Due to the spread of animals , fungi and  पौधे आरपार the सिंगल pleistocene landmass  the separate lands have a related biota .
Central Park is nearly twice as  बिग as the संसार 's second-smallest  country , Monaco .
historically इसके टंकी  were important components of the city 's water supply .
Environmental issues in New York City are affected by the city 's size , density , abundant public transportation infrastructure , and  स्थान at the मुँह of the हडसन  River .
New York 's population density  रै पर्यावरणीय  pros and cons .
It facilitates the  उच्चतम द्रव्यमान पारगमन उपयोग in the  United States , but also concentrates pollution .
Gasoline consumption in the city is at the rate the national  औसत थी in the 1920s  , and greenhouse gas emissions are a fraction of the national average , at 7.1 metric tons per person per year , below San Francisco , at 11.2 metric tons , and the national average , at 24.5 metric tons .
New  यॉर्क नगर खाते लिये तभी 1 % of संयुक्त  States greenhouse gas emissions while housing 2.7 % of its population .
In September 2012 , New York was named the # 1 ``  अमेरिका 's dirtiest नगर , '' by a travel+leisure  readership survey that rated the environmental quality of 35 prominent cities in the United States .
Atlanta ( , stressed , locally ) is  the पूंजी of और the सबसे  populous city in the U.S. state of Georgia , with an estimated 2011 population of 432,427 .
Atlanta is the cultural and economic center of the  अटलांटा महानगर क्षेत्रफल , घर to 5,457,831  people and the ninth largest metropolitan area in the United States .
Atlanta is the county seat of Fulton County , and a small portion of the  नगर extends eastward into dekalb  County .
Atlanta was established in 1837 at the intersection of two railroad lines , and the city rose from the ashes of the  सिविल युद्ध  to become a national center of commerce .
In the decades  following the सिविल अधिकारों गति  , during which the city earned a reputation as `` too busy to hate '' for the progressive views of its citizens and leaders , Atlanta attained international prominence .
Atlanta is the primary  परिवहन हब of the southeastern  United States , via highway , railroad , and air , with Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport being the world 's busiest airport since 1998 .
Atlanta is considered an `` alpha ( - ) world city , '' and , with a gross domestic product of US $ 270 billion , Atlanta’s economy ranks 15th among  संसार शहरों और छठे in the  nation .
Although Atlanta’s economy is considered diverse , dominant sectors include logistics , professional and business services  , मीडिया परिचालन , सरकारी प्रशासन , और  higher education .
Topographically ,  अटलांटा is चिह्नित  by rolling hills and dense tree coverage .
Revitalization of Atlanta 's neighborhoods ,  initially spurred by the 1996 ओलंपिक , रै intensified  in the 21st century , altering the city 's demographics , politics , and culture .
A 1947 propaganda comic book published by the  catechetical गिल्ड शैक्षणिक  Society raising the specter of a Communist takeover
mccarthyism is the अभ्यास of बनाना आरोपों  of disloyalty , subversion , or treason without proper regard for evidence .
It also means `` the practice of making unfair allegations or using unfair investigative techniques , especially in  अनुक्रम to सीमित  dissent or political criticism . ''
The term has its origins in the period in the United States known as the Second Red Scare , lasting roughly from 1950  to 1956 और characterized by heightened fears of  communist influence on American institutions and espionage by Soviet agents .
Originally coined to criticize the anti-communist pursuits of Republican U.S . Senator Joseph McCarthy  of विस्कॉन्सिन , `` mccarthyism '' जल्द took on a broader अर्थ  , describing the excesses of similar efforts .
The term is also now used more generally to describe reckless , unsubstantiated accusations , as well as demagogic attacks  on the अक्षर or राष्ट्रभक्ति of राजनैतिक  adversaries .
During the McCarthy era , thousands of Americans were accused of being Communists or communist sympathizers and became the subject of aggressive  investigations और questioning पहले सरकारी or private-industry panels , समितियों और एजेंसियों  .
The primary targets of such suspicions were government employees , those in the entertainment industry ,  शिक्षक और संघ कार्यकर्ताओं  .
Suspicions were often given  credence despite inconclusive or questionable प्रमाण , और the  level of threat posed by a person 's real or supposed leftist associations or beliefs was often greatly exaggerated .
Many people suffered loss of  नियुक्ति and/or विनाश  of their careers ; some even suffered imprisonment .
Most of these punishments came about through trial verdicts later overturned , laws that would be declared unconstitutional , dismissals  लिये कारण बाद घोषित illegal or actionable , or extra-legal  procedures that would come into general disrepute .
The most famous  उदाहरण of mccarthyism शामिल the भाषणों , investigations , और hearings of सीनेटर मैकार्थी  himself ; the Hollywood blacklist , associated with hearings conducted by the House Un-American Activities Committee ( HUAC ) ; and the various anti-communist activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) under Director J. Edgar Hoover .
McCarthyism was a widespread social and cultural phenomenon that affected all levels  of समाज और थी the  source of a great deal of debate and conflict in the United States .
Napoleon is a  fictional अक्षर  and the main antagonist in George Orwell 's Animal Farm .
While he is at first a common farm  सुअर , he  gets rid of Snowball , another pig which shares the power .
He then takes advantage of the animals ' uprising against their masters to eventually become the tyrannical ``  अध्यक्ष of एनिमल फार्म , '' जिससे he turns into a तानाशाही  .
वरुण  logo
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the world’s first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into  the अंतरजाल  .
Since December 2009 , it has allowed people to ``  लहरे '' the seafloor जबकि समंदर वैज्ञानिकों  run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world .
Along with its sister project  , शुक्र , वरुण offers a  unique approach to ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship cruises  or space-based satellites to carry आउट उनके शोध  , while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler .
The Coronet was a full-size car from Dodge  in the 1950s , initially the प्रभाग 's उच्चतम  trim line but , starting in 1955 , the lowest trim line .
In the 1960s , the name was transferred to Dodge 's  mid-size प्रविष्टि .
ARM9 is an ARM  वास्तुकला  32-bit RISC CPU family .
राष्ट्रमंडल is a परंपरागत अंग्रेज़ी  term for a political community founded for the common good .
historically , it  has sometimes been synonymous with `` republic `` .
More recently it has been  प्रयुक्त लिये fraternal  associations of some sovereign nations .
Most  notably , the राष्ट्रमंडल of राष्ट्र , an संघ  primarily of former members of the British Empire , is often referred to as simply `` the Commonwealth '' .
The September 11 attacks ( also referred to as September 11 , September 11th , or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group  al-qaeda upon the संयुक्त राज्य in नई यॉर्क नगर और  the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four  यात्री airliners यहूद hijacked by  19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes , American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175 , were crashed into the  उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें , क्रमशः  , of the World Trade Center complex in New York City .
Within two hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of  सब अन्य इमारतें in the wtc जटिल , as खूब  as major damage to ten other large surrounding structures .
A third plane , American Airlines Flight 77 , was crashed into the Pentagon ( the headquarters of the United States  विभाग of रक्षा ) ,  leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 , was targeted at the United States  कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , लकिन क्रैश  into a field near Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total , almost 3,000 people died in the attacks , including the 227 civilians and  19 hijackers सवार the  four planes .
Suspicion  जल्दी गिरी on  al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin Laden ,  initially अस्वीकृत कोई भागीदारी , in 2004  he claimed responsibility for the attacks .
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel , the presence of U.S.  सैनिकों in सऊदी अरब , और प्रतिबंधों  against Iraq as motives for the attacks .
The  संयुक्त राज्य responded to the हमले by शुभारंभ  the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the Taliban , which had harbored al-Qaeda .
Many countries strengthened their anti-terrorism  विधान और विस्तारित  law enforcement powers .
having evaded  capture for years , bin Laden was located and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011 .
The destruction of the Twin Towers and other properties caused serious damage to the economy of Lower  मैनहटन और  had a significant effect on global markets .
Cleanup of the World Trade Center  साईट थी  completed in May 2002 , and the Pentagon was repaired within a year .
Numerous memorials  have महरूम constructed , सहित the नेशनल  September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York , the Pentagon Memorial , and the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a lengthy delay , the One World Trade Center is expected to  be समाप्त at  Ground Zero in New York City in 2013 .
Crater Lake National Park is a  संयुक्त राज्य नेशनल पार्क  located in southern Oregon .
Established in 1902 , Crater Lake National Park is the fifth oldest national park in  the संयुक्त  States and the only one in the state of Oregon .
The park encompasses the caldera of Crater Lake , a  remnant of a नष्ट ज्वालामुखी  , Mount Mazama , and the surrounding hills and forests .
The lake is deep at its  deepest पाइंट , जिससे makes it the deepest झील in  the United States , the second deepest in North America and the ninth deepest in the world .
Crater  झील is प्रायः referred to as the सातवाँ deepest झील  in the world , but this former listing excludes the approximately depth of subglacial Lake Vostok in Antarctica , which resides under nearly of ice , and the recent report of a maximum depth for Lake O'Higgins /San Martin , located on the border of Chile and Argentina .
However , when comparing its average depth of to the average depth of other deep lakes , Crater Lake  becomes the deepest in the पश्चिमी गोलार्ध और  the third deepest in the world .
The impressive average depth of this volcanic lake is due to the nearly symmetrical deep  caldera formed 7,700 सालो पहले दौरान the हिंसक climactic  eruptions and subsequent collapse of Mount Mazama and the relatively moist climate that is typical of the crest of the Cascade Range .
The caldera rim  सीमाएँ in  elevation from .
The United States Geological Survey  benchmarked उन्नयन  of the lake surface itself is .
इस  National Park encompasses .
Crater Lake has no streams flowing  into or आउट of  it .
All water that enters the lake is  आखिरकार खोया इससे  evaporation or subsurface seepage .
The lake 's water commonly has a striking blue hue , and the lake is  re-filled entirely  from direct precipitation in the form of snow and rain .
The Supreme Court of  the संयुक्त राज्य is the उच्चतम अदालत  in the United States .
It has ultimate ( and largely discretionary ) appellate  क्षेत्राधिकार over सब संघीय न्यायालयों और over  state court cases involving issues of federal law , and original jurisdiction over a small range of cases .
The Court , which meets in the United States Supreme Court Building in Washington , D.C. , consists of a chief justice and  आठ संबद्ध justices जो हैं मनोनीत  by the President and confirmed by the United States Senate .
Once appointed , justices have life tenure unless they resign , retire  , or  are removed after impeachment .
conroe is the सीट  of Montgomery County and falls within the metropolitan area .
It is  स्तिथ परिचय  north of Houston .
As of July 2011 , the city population was  58,973 , up इससे  36,811 in 2000 .
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement , which  adherents मानना contains कृतियाँ of प्राचीन नबियों जो जिया  on the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421 .
It  थी पहला प्रकाशित in कूच 1830 by जोसेफ स्मिथ as the  Book of Mormon : An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi .
According to Smith 's account , and also according to the  किताब 's कथा , the किताब of mormon थी originally  written in otherwise unknown characters referred to as `` reformed Egyptian `` engraved on golden plates .
Smith claimed that the last prophet to contribute to the book , a man named Moroni , buried it in a hill in present-day New York and then returned to earth in 1827 as an angel , revealing the location of the book to Smith and  instructing उसे to अनुवाद और disseminate it as प्रमाण  of the restoration of Christ 's true church in the latter days .
The Book of Mormon has a number of original and distinctive  doctrinal चर्चाएँ on विषय ऐसे as the पतन  of Adam and Eve , the nature of the Atonement , eschatology , redemption from physical and spiritual death , and the organization of the latter-day church .
The pivotal event  of the किताब is  an appearance of Jesus Christ to the Americas shortly after his resurrection .
The Book of Mormon is the earliest of the unique writings of the Latter Day Saint movement , the denominations of which typically regard the text  नहीं तभी as scripture लकिन भी as a ऐतिहासिक  record of God 's dealings with the ancient inhabitants of the Americas .
The Book of Mormon is divided into smaller books , titled after the individuals named as primary authors and , in most  संस्करण , विभाजित into अध्याय  and verses .
It is written in English , very similar to the Early Modern English linguistic style of the King James Version of the Bible  , और रै चूंकि महरूम  fully or partially translated into 108 languages .
An enlisted rank ( also known as an enlisted grade or enlisted rate ) is , in most  militaries , कोई रैंक नीचे कि of a commissioned  officer or warrant officer .
The term can also be inclusive of non-commissioned  अधिकारियों  .
In most cases , enlisted service personnel perform jobs specific to their own occupational specialty , as  opposed to the अधिक generalized कमांड जिम्मेदारियों  of commissioned officers .
`` What a Wonderful  संसार '' is a सोंग लिखा  by Bob Thiele ( as `` George Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss .
It was first recorded by Louis  आर्मस्ट्रांग और released as a सिंगल  in 1967 .
thiele और वेइस यहूद  both prominent in the music world ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's recording was inducted  in the ग्रैमी हॉल  of Fame in 1999 .
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group , Carlin Music  corp. , और  Bug Music , Inc .
1908 poster advertising  gaumont 's  sound films .
The Chronomégaphone , designed for large halls , employed compressed air to amplify  the अंकित ध्वनि  .
A sound film is a motion picture with synchronized sound , or sound  technologically coupled to  image , as opposed to a silent film .
The first known public exhibition of projected sound films took place in Paris in 1900 , but decades  होता pass पहले ध्वनि गति तस्वीरें यहूद  made commercially practical .
Reliable synchronization was difficult to achieve with the early sound-on-disc systems , and  प्रवर्धन और रिकॉर्डिंग विशेषता यहूद  also inadequate .
Innovations in  sound-on-film led to the पहला वाणिज्यिक स्क्रीनिंग  of short motion pictures using the technology , which took place in 1923 .
The primary steps in the  व्यावसायीकरण  of sound cinema were taken in the mid- to late 1920s .
At first , the sound films incorporating synchronized dialogue—known as `` talking pictures '' , or `` talkies  '' —were exclusively शॉर्ट्स ; the earliest feature-length फिल्मों साथ अंकित  sound included only music and effects .
The first feature film originally presented as a talkie  थी the जैज़ सिंगर ,  released in October 1927 .
A major hit , it was made with  vitaphone , the अग्रणी ब्रांड  of sound-on-disc technology .
sound-on-film , however , होता जल्द  become the standard for talking pictures .
By the early 1930s , the  टॉकीज़  were a global phenomenon .
In the United States , they helped secure  हॉलीवुड 's स्थिति as एक of the संसार 's सबसे शक्तिशाली cultural/commercial  systems ( see Cinema of the United States ) .
In Europe (  और , to a lesser उपाधि , elsewhere ) the नई विकास थी treated साथ suspicion by  many filmmakers and critics , who worried that a focus on dialogue would subvert the unique aesthetic virtues of soundless cinema .
In Japan , where the  लोकप्रिय फिल्मी परंपरा एकीकृत मूक  movie and live vocal performance , talking pictures were slow to take root .
In  इण्डिया , ध्वनि थी the transformative तत्व कि led  to the rapid expansion of the nation 's film industry—the most productive such industry in the world since the early 1960s .
African people are natives or inhabitants of Africa and  लोगों of अफ़्रीकी descent  .
The Australian Recording Industry Association Music Awards ( commonly known as ARIA Music Awards or ARIA Awards ) is  an सालाना श्रेणी of पुरस्कार नाइट्स  celebrating the Australian music industry , put on by the Australian Recording Industry Association ( ARIA ) .
The event has been held annually since 1987 and encompasses the general genre-specific and popular awards ( these are what is usually being referred to as `` the ARIA awards '' ) as well as Fine Arts Awards and Artisan Awards ( held separately from 2004 ) , Lifetime Achievement  पुरस्कार और aria हॉल of कीर्ति – आयोजित separately इससे 2005 to 2010  but returned to the general ceremony in 2011 .
For 2010 , ARIA  introduced  public voted awards for the first time .
Winning , or even  होने मनोनीत लिये , an aria पुरस्कार परिणाम in a लॉट of मीडिया ध्यान on  an artist , and usually increases recording sales several-fold – in 2005 , for example , after Ben Lee won three awards , his album Awake Is the New Sleep jumped from No . 31 to No . 5 in the ARIA Charts , its highest position .
For-profit education ( also  ज्ञात as the शिक्षा सेवाएं उद्योग or  proprietary education ) refers to educational institutions operated by private , profit -seeking businesses .
There are three types  of for-profit  schools .
One type is known  as an शैक्षणिक  management organization ( EMO ) , and these are primary and secondary educational institutions .
EMOs work with school districts or charter schools , using public funds  to वित्त परिचालन .
The majority of for-profit schools in the K–12 sector in  अमेरिका फलन  as EMOs , and have grown in number in the mid-2000s .
The other major category of for-profit schools are post-secondary  संस्थानों जिससे  operate as businesses , receiving fees from each student they enroll .
A third type of  for-profit स्कूलों ,  which is less prevalent in the United States , are K–12 schools which operate as businesses .
EMOs function differently from charter schools created in order to carry out a particular teaching pedagogy ;  सबसे चार्टर स्कूलों हैं mission-oriented , जबकि emos और  other for-profit institutions are market-oriented .
जबकि समर्थक argue कि the लाभ  motive encourages efficiency , this arrangement has also drawn controversy and criticism .
Kevin Carey , director of the education policy program of the New American Foundation said in a 2010 column in The Chronicle of Higher Education that ``  for-profits  exist in large part to fix educational market failures left by traditional institutions , and they profit by serving students that public and private nonprofit institutions too often ignore . ''
He also noted that `` There 's no doubt that the worst for-profits  हैं निर्मम exploiting  the commodified college degree .
But they did n't commodify it in the  पहला  place . ''
Amendment  xxii in  the National Archives
The Twenty-second Amendment of the United States Constitution sets a term limit for election to  the दफ्तर of अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States .
Congress passed the amendment on  कूच  21 , 1947 .
It was ratified by the  आवश्यक क्रमांक of राज्य  on February 27 , 1951 .
This is an  एपीसोड मार्गदर्शिका  for the anime series Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo .
This list encompasses every episode , beginning with the original  japanese-language शीर्षक as वे aired on tv असाही , followed by  the title used in the English dubbed version airing in the United States on Cartoon Network .
A short summary will follow ,  introducing the एपीसोड और referring  to some of the gags , but not giving the complete summaries to the episodes .
All names and  कुछ of the सन्दर्भ होगा be the  ones used from the English-language version to avoid confusion .
जापानी names  may be presented after the dub name in parentheses .
This article is about the public  पार्क in नई  York City .
For  अन्य उपयोग , देखिए सेंट्रल  Park ( disambiguation ) .
Central Park is a public park at the center of  मैनहटन in नई यॉर्क  City .
The park initially opened in 1857 , on of city-owned land ( it is  843  acres today ) .
In 1858 ,  फ्रेडरिक विधि olmsted और calvert vaux जीती a डिज़ाइन  competition to improve and expand the park with a plan they entitled the Greensward Plan .
Construction began the  वही साल , जारी दौरान the  American Civil War , and was completed in 1873 .
Central Park  is the सबसे  visited urban park in the United States .
Designated a  नेशनल ऐतिहासिक लैंडमार्क in  1962 , the park is currently managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract with the city government .
The Conservancy is a non-profit organization that contributes 83.5 % of  सेंट्रल पार्क 's $ 37.5 लाख सालाना बजट  , and employs 80.7 % of the park 's maintenance staff .
tracfone बेतार , inc. is a प्रीपेड बेतार सेवा  provider operating in the United States including Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands and is a subsidiary of Mexico 's largest telecommunications provider , América Móvil .
As a Mobile Virtual Network Operator  ( mvno ) , tracfone बेतार holds अनेक समझौतों साथ the us largest  wireless telecommunications companies to utilize their networks to provide service including those of Verizon , AT & T , Sprint , and T-Mobile .
TracFone Wireless offers its wireless products under  अनेक ब्रांड्स जिससे प्रत्येक भी प्रस्ताव distinctive सेवा  plans , the brands include TracFone , NET10 Wireless , Straight Talk , SafeLink Wireless , Telcel América and Simple Mobile .
A  पकड़ें dredge
Dredging is an excavation activity or operation usually carried out at   least partly underwater , in shallow seas or fresh water areas with the purpose of gathering up bottom sediments and disposing of them at a different location .
This technique  is प्रायः प्रयुक्त  to keep waterways navigable .
It is also used as a way to replenish sand on some public  समुद्रतट , जहाँ बालू रै महरूम खोया क्युकी  of coastal erosion .
Dredging is also used as a  तकनीक लिये फ़िशिंग लिये निश्चित  species of edible clams and crabs , see fishing dredge .
A dredger ( or “dredge” as is the general usage in the Americas ) is any  यंत्र , यंत्र , or पोत कि is प्रयुक्त to  excavate and remove material from the bottom of a body of water .
For example , a scoop attached to the end of a rope  or ध्रुव by जिससे a man can चित्रण  sediments up from the bottom of a pond is a dredger .
Developing this idea further , a motorized  क्रेन equipped साथ a खीचें बाल्टी or clamshell ( grabber ) कि is  used to scoop material from the bottom of a body of water is also a dredger .
The crane  could be स्तिथ  on the bank , or perhaps mounted on a barge .
If the crane is  आरोहित on  a barge , the entire vessel is referred to as a dredger .
The process of dredging creates spoils ( excess  सामग्री ) , जिससे हैं carried दूर इससे  the dredged area .
Dredging can produce materials for land reclamation or other purposes (  प्रायः construction-related  ) , and has also historically played a significant role in gold mining .
Dredging can  बनाएँ  disturbance in aquatic ecosystems , often with adverse impacts .
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian Islands of Alaska  photographed इससे the अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्पेस स्टेशन ,  May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a  ऊँचाई of 19 km दौरान  the climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
A volcano is an opening , or rupture , in a  ग्रह 's सतह  or crust , which allows hot magma , volcanic ash and gases to escape from the magma chamber below the surface .
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic plates are  diverging or converging  .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the  mid-atlantic लकीरें , रै उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused  by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has examples of volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together .
By contrast ,  ज्वालामुखी हैं प्रायः नहीं  created where two tectonic plates slide past one another .
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the  धरती 's क्रस्ट in the इंटीरियर्स of प्लेटों , e.g. , in the ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी दरार  , the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
This type of  volcanism जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the छतरियाँ of `` थाली परिकल्पना  '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from plate boundaries has also been explained  as mantle plumes  .
These so-called `` hotspots `` , for example Hawaii , are postulated to arise from upwelling diapirs with magma from the  core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km गहन in the धरती  .
Erupting volcanoes can  पोज़ अनेक जोखिमों , नहीं तभी  in the immediate vicinity of the eruption .
Volcanic ash can be  a threat to वायुयान , in particular those साथ जेट इंजन  where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature .
Large eruptions can affect temperature as ash and droplets of sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere  or क्षोभमण्डल ; however , वे भी अवशोषित ऊष्मा radiated up इससे the धरती ,  thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically , so-called volcanic  सर्दियों have caused अनर्थकारी  famines .
Benedict Arnold ( June 14 , 1801 ) was a general during the American Revolutionary War  जो originally लड़ा  for the American Continental Army but defected to the British Army .
While a general on the American side , he  प्राप्त कमांड of the फोर्ट at वेस्ट  Point , New York , and planned to surrender it to the British forces .
After the plan  थी उजागर in सितंबर 1780 , he  was commissioned into the British Army as a brigadier general .
Born in Connecticut , Arnold was a  व्यापारी ऑपरेटिंग जहाजों on the  Atlantic Ocean when the war broke out in 1775 .
After joining the growing army outside  बोस्टन , he विशिष्ट खुद  through acts of intelligence and bravery .
His actions included the Capture of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775 , defensive and delaying tactics despite losing the Battle of Valcour Island on Lake Champlain in 1776 , the Battle of Ridgefield , Connecticut ( after which he was promoted to major general ) , operations in relief of the Siege of Fort Stanwix , and key actions during the pivotal Battles of  साराटोगा in 1777 , in जिससे he suffered लेग चोटों कि ended उसके कॉम्बैट करियर लिये अनेक सालो  .
Despite Arnold 's  सफलताओं , he थी passed over लिये प्रमोशन  by the Continental Congress while other officers claimed credit for some of his accomplishments .
adversaries in सैन्य और राजनैतिक वृत्त brought  charges of corruption or other malfeasance , but most often he was acquitted in formal inquiries .
Congress investigated his accounts and found he was indebted to Congress after  बिता much of उसके अपना धन on the  war effort .
Frustrated and bitter , Arnold decided to  बदलें  sides in 1779 , and opened secret negotiations with the British .
In July 1780 , he was  offered , जारी  to pursue and was awarded command of West Point .
Arnold 's scheme to surrender the fort to the British was exposed when American forces captured British  प्रमुख  John André carrying papers that revealed the plot .
Upon learning of André 's capture , Arnold fled down the Hudson River to the  अंग्रेजों sloop-of-war गिद्ध , narrowly बचने कैप्चर by  the forces of George Washington , who had been alerted to the plot .
Arnold  प्राप्त a आयोग as a ब्रिगेडियर  general in the British Army , an annual pension of £360 , and a lump sum of over £6,000 .
He led British forces on raids in Virginia ,  और विरूद्ध नई लंदन और groton  , Connecticut , before the war effectively ended with the American victory at Yorktown .
In the winter of 1782 , Arnold moved to London with his second  बीवी , मार्गरेट `` पैगी  '' Shippen Arnold .
He was well received by King George III and the Tories  लकिन खीझ upon by  the Whigs .
In 1787 , he returned to the merchant business with  उसके बेटे रिचर्ड  and Henry in Saint John , New Brunswick .
He returned to London to  settle permanently  in 1791 , where he died ten years later .
Because of the way he changed sides , his name quickly became a  in the संयुक्त राज्य लिये देशद्रोह or विश्वासघात  .
His conflicting legacy is recalled  in the अस्पष्ट  nature of some of the memorials that have been placed in his honor .
कर्टिस montague schilling ( born नवम्बर  14 , 1966 ) is a former American Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher and Video Game developer .
He helped lead the  फिलाडेल्फिया फ़िलीज़ to the संसार श्रेणी in और जीती संसार श्रेणी championships  in with the Arizona Diamondbacks and in and with the Boston Red Sox .
Schilling retired  साथ  a career postseason record of 11–2 .
His .846 postseason winning  प्रतिशत is a major-league रिकार्ड among  pitchers with at least 10 decisions .
After retiring , he founded Green  दानव खेल जिससे थी renamed  38 Studios .
The company released Kingdoms of Amalur : Reckoning in February 2012 ,  लकिन बस तीन महीने बाद  , Schilling laid off his entire staff amid severe financial troubles that resulted in the company missing payroll the previous week .
Star Wars is  an अमरीकी एपिक  space opera franchise centered on a film series created by George Lucas .
The film series has spawned a media franchise outside the film series called the Expanded Universe  सहित किताबे , टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  , computer and video games , and comic books .
These supplements to the film trilogies have  resulted in significant विकास  of the series ' fictional universe .
These media kept the franchise active in the  अंतरिम between the फिल्मी trilogies  .
The franchise  portrays a आकाशगंगा कि is वर्णित  as far , far away in the distant past .
It commonly portrays Jedi as a  प्रतिनिधित्व of शुभ  , in conflict with the Sith , their evil counterpart .
Their weapon of choice , the  lightsaber ,  is commonly recognized in popular culture .
the fictional ब्रह्मांड भी contains  many themes , especially influences of philosophy and religion .
the पहला फिल्मी in the श्रेणी थी originally released  on May 25 , 1977 , under the title Star Wars , by 20th Century Fox , and became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon , followed by two sequels , released at three-year intervals .
Sixteen  सालो बाद the रिलीज of the त्रयी 's फाइनल  film , the first in a new prequel trilogy of films was released .
The three prequel films were also released at three-year intervals ,  साथ the फाइनल फिल्मी of the त्रयी released  on May 19 , 2005 .
In October 2012 , The Walt Disney Company acquired  लुकासफ़िल्म लिये $ 4.05 अरब और घोषित कि it होता उपज  three new films , with the first film , Star Wars Episode VII , planned for release in 2015 .
20th Century Fox still retains the distribution rights to the first two Star Wars trilogies , owning permanent rights for the original film Episode IV : A New Hope , while holding the rights to Episodes  i–iii , v और vi जबतक  May 2020 .
Reactions to the original trilogy were mostly positive , with the last film being considered  the weakest , जबकि the प्रीक्वेल त्रयी प्राप्त a अधिक मिश्रित प्रतिक्रिया , साथ  most of the praise being for the final movie , according to most review aggregator websites .
All six of the main films in the series were also  मनोनीत लिये or जीती अकादमी  Awards .
All of the main films have been box office successes , with the overall box office revenue generated by  the स्टार युद्धों films ( सहित the नाट्य स्टार युद्धों : the क्लोन युद्धों ) totalling  $ 4.49 billion , making it the third-highest-grossing film series .
The  कामयाबी रै भी led to अनेक  re-releases in theaters for the series .
Plateletpheresis ( more accurately called thrombocytapheresis or thrombapheresis , though  ये names हैं rarely प्रयुक्त ) is the प्रक्रम of collecting thrombocytes , अधिक commonly  called platelets , a component of blood involved in blood clotting .
The term specifically refers to the method of collecting the platelets , which is  performed by a यंत्र प्रयुक्त in रक्त दान कि separates the  platelets and returns other portions of the blood to the donor .
platelet transfusion can be a life-saving कार्यविधि  in preventing or treating serious complications from bleeding and hemorrhage in patients who have disorders manifesting as thrombocytopenia ( low platelet count ) or platelet dysfunction .
This process may also be used therapeutically  to दावत विकार resulting  in extraordinarily high platelet counts such as essential thrombocytosis .
In computer networking , a port is an application-specific or  process-specific तन्त्र construct  serving as a communications endpoint in a computer 's host operating system .
A port is associated with an IP address of the host , as well as the type  of प्रोटोकॉल प्रयुक्त  for communication .
The purpose of ports is to uniquely identify different applications or processes running on a single computer and  thereby enable उन्हें to share a सिंगल  physical connection to a packet-switched network like the Internet .
The protocols that primarily use ports are the Transport Layer  प्रोटोकॉल , ऐसे as the हस्तांतरण  Control Protocol ( TCP ) and the User Datagram Protocol ( UDP ) of the Internet Protocol Suite .
A port is identified  लिये  each address and protocol by a 16-bit number , commonly known as the port number .
The port number , added to a computer 's IP address , completes  the गंतव्य  address for a communications session .
That is , data packets are routed across the network to a specific destination IP  पता , और तब , upon reaching  the destination computer , are further routed to the specific process bound to the destination port number .
नोट कि it is the संयोजन  of IP address and port number together that must be globally unique .
Thus , different IP addresses or protocols may use the same port number for communication ; e.g. , on a given  मेजबान or इंटरफ़ेस यूडीपी और टीसीपी may उपयोग the वही बंदरगाहों क्रमांक , or on a मेजबान  with two interfaces , both addresses may be associated with a port having the same number .
Of the  हज़ारों of enumerated पोर्ट , परिचय 250 well-known पोर्ट हैं  reserved by convention to identify specific service types on a host .
In the client-server model of application architecture , ports are  प्रयुक्त to provide a multiplexing सेवा  on each server-side port number that network clients connect to for service initiation , after which communication can be reestablished on other connection-specific port numbers .
Area code 479 is the telephone area code serving thirteen counties in northwest  अरकंसास  , including the cities of Fort Smith , Fayetteville , Springdale , Rogers and Bentonville : the second , third , fourth , eighth and tenth-largest cities in the state , respectively .
It was created in 2002 in a  विभाजित इससे क्षेत्रफल कोड  501 .
Area code 479 serves Benton , Carroll ( split with area code 870 ) , Crawford , Franklin , Johnson  , लोगन , मैडिसन , polk , पोप , स्कॉट , सेबेस्टियन , वॉशिंगटन  and Yell Counties in Arkansas .
Arraignment is a  औपचारिक पढना of a दण्ड चार्जिंग दस्तावेज़ in the  presence of the defendant to inform the defendant of the charges against him or her .
In response to arraignment , the accused is  अपेक्षित to डालें  a plea .
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions , but they generally include `` guilty '' , `` not guilty '' , and the peremptory pleas ( or pleas in bar  ) सेटिंग आउट कारण  why a trial can not proceed .
Pleas of `` nolo  contendere `` ( no  contest ) and the `` Alford plea `` are allowed in some circumstances .
In England , Wales , Northern Ireland and Australia , arraignment is the first of eleven stages in a  दण्ड विचारण , और  involves the clerk of the court reading out the indictment .
The defendant is  पूछा whether he or वो pleads  guilty or not guilty to each charge .
In federal  न्यायालयों of the संयुक्त  States , arraignment takes place in two stages .
The first is called the initial  arraignment  and must take place within 48 hours of an individual 's arrest , 72 hours if the individual was arrested on the weekend and not able to go before a judge until Monday .
During this arraignment the defendant is informed of the pending legal  आरोप और is सूचित of उसके or  her right to retain counsel .
The presiding judge also  decides at कया  amount , if any , to set bail .
During the second  arraignment  , a post-indictment arraignment or PIA , the defendant is allowed to enter a plea .
geoffrey चासर ( ; c. 1343 – 25 अक्तूबर 1400 ) , ज्ञात as the पिता of अंग्रेज़ी साहित्य  , is widely considered the greatest English poet of the Middle Ages and was the first poet to have been buried in Poet 's Corner of Westminster Abbey .
While he achieved fame during his lifetime as an author , philosopher , alchemist and astronomer , composing a scientific treatise on the astrolabe for his ten year-old son Lewis ,  चासर भी कायम an क्रियाशील करियर in the सिविल सेवा as a नौकरशाह , नवरत्नों और राजनयिक  .
Among his many works ,  जिससे शामिल the किताब of the duchess  , the House of Fame , the Legend of Good Women and Troilus and Criseyde , he is best known today for The Canterbury Tales .
Chaucer is a crucial figure in developing the legitimacy of the vernacular ,  मध्य अंग्रेज़ी , at a समय जब the प्रबल साहित्यिक भाषाएं  in England were French and Latin .
The Chicago Blizzard of 1979  थी a प्रमुख blizzard कि प्रभावित उत्तरी इलिनोइस  and northwest Indiana , U.S. on January 13 – January 14 , 1979 .
of snow fell on January 13  अलोन , सेटिंग a नई रिकार्ड  for snow in one calendar day .
By the end of  जनवरी 14 , of  snow had fallen .
The  ठंडा मौसम और हिमपात  throughout the rest of January and February resulted in frozen tracks throughout the Chicago 'L ' system .
Commuters crowded onto CTA buses , quickly  overwhelming क्षमता , resulting in usual बस commutes  of 30-45 minutes taking up to several hours .
To avoid huge snowdrifts in the streets  , the overcrowded बसें यहूद obliged  to take numerous detours , adding additional time to the commute .
Deployment of plows was significantly delayed and when they finally  appeared वे struggled to रखना up  with the snowfall .
Much of the snow remained unremoved throughout the next 2 months ,  causing  ongoing public transit delays and significant problems with trash collection .
The city 's  अपर्याप्त जवाब to the blizzard थी blamed  primarily on mayor Michael Bilandic , who had assumed the post after the 1976 death of Richard J. Daley .
Newspaper articles at the time blasted Bilandic ; Jane Byrne , Bilandic 's  प्रमुख राजनैतिक प्रतिद्वंद्वी in the लोकतांत्रिक प्राथमिक ( जो था previously worked साथ  Bilandic in the Daley administration and been fired by Bilandic when the two could not get along ) , capitalized on this and went on to defeat Bilandic in the February 27 primary .
The 12-hour clock is a time convention in which the 24 hours of the day are divided into two periods : a.m. ( from the Latin ante  meridiem , अर्थ `` पहले midday ''  ) and p.m. ( post meridiem , `` after midday '' ) .
Each period  consists of 12 घंटों गिने : 12 ( एक्टिंग  as zero ) , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , and 11 .
The 12-hour clock was developed over time from the  mid-second मिलेनियम bc to the 16th सदी ad .
Health spending per capita , in $ US  ppp-adjusted , साथ the us और कनाडा compared  amongst other first world nations .
Comparison  of the स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणालियों in कनाडा  and the United States are often made by government , public health and public policy analysts .
The two countries had similar health care systems before Canada reformed its system  in the 1960s और  1970s .
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada  , on दोनो a per-capita आधार  and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 , per-capita spending for  स्वास्थ्य परवाह in कनाडा थी  US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The U.S. spent 15.3 %  of जीडीपी  on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of health care spending in  कनाडा थी  financed by government , versus 46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on  स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी 23 % उच्चतर than कनाडाई सरकारी बिता  , and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of total Canadian spending ( public and private ) though these statistics do n't take into account population differences .
अध्ययन have आइये to अलग conclusions  about the result of this disparity in spending .
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in  कनाडा और the us in a कनाडाई peer-reviewed चिकित्सा  journal found that `` health outcomes may be superior in patients cared for in Canada versus the United States , but differences are not consistent . ''
Life  प्रत्याशा  is longer in Canada , and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S. , but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '' , which used a `` composite measure of achievement in  the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य , the वितरण of स्वास्थ्य , the स्तर of responsiveness और निष्पक्षता of वित्तीय योगदान  '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '' , or quality of service  लिये individuals receiving उपचार ,  as 1st , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average  जीवन  expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity rates is likely not an effective way of determining which healthcare system is superior .
The WHO 's study methods were criticized  by कुछ analyses  .
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the most reliable ways to compare nation-wide health care , assuming the population makeup is similar ,  a हाल रपट by the congressional शोध सेवा carefully summarizes कुछ हाल आंकड़ा  and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
Tarantulas comprise a group of often hairy and very large arachnids  belonging to the theraphosidae परिवार  of spiders , of which approximately 900 species have been identified .
This article only describes members of  theraphosidae , हालांकि कुछ अन्य सदस्यों  of the same suborder are commonly referred to as `` tarantulas '' .
Most species of tarantulas are not  खतरनाक to इंसानो , और कुछ प्रजाति have become  popular in the exotic pet trade .
The  ton is a ईकाई  of measure .
It has a long history and has acquired a number of meanings and uses  over the  years .
It is  प्रयुक्त प्रधानतया  as a unit of weight , and as a unit of volume .
It can also be used as a measure of energy ,  लिये ट्रक वर्गीकरण , or as a colloquial  term .
it is निकला इससे the tun  , the term applied to a barrel of the largest size .
This  could contain a आवाज़ between 210  and 256 gallons ( 800 to 1000 L ) , which could weigh around 2,000 pounds ( 900 kg ) and occupy some of space .
In the United Kingdom the ton is defined as (  avoirdupois पाउंड )  .
From 1965 the UK embarked upon a programme of metrication and  धीरे introduced मीट्रिक इकाई , सहित  the tonne ( metric ton ) , a non-SI metric unit defined as 1000 kg .
The UK Weights and Measures Act 1985 explicitly excluded from use for trade many units and terms , including the ton  और the पद ``  metric ton '' for `` tonne ''
In the United States and formerly  कनाडा a ton is पारिभाषित to  be .
Where confusion is possible , the 2240 lb ton is called `` long ton `` and the 2000 lb ton `` short ton `` ; the tonne is distinguished by its  स्पेलिंग , लकिन प्रायः सुनाया the  same as ton , hence the US term `` metric ton '' .
In the UK the final `` e '' of `` tonne '' can also be pronounced ( /ˈtʌnɪ/ ) , or `` metric  ton '' जब it is जरुरी to मेक the भेद  .
Where accuracy  is जरूरी the सही पद  must be used , but for many purposes this is not necessary : the metric and long tons differ by only 1.6 % , and the short ton is within 11 % of both .
The ton is the heaviest unit of weight referred to in  colloquial वाक .
The term `` ton '' is also used to  refer to a क्रमांक of इकाई  of volume , ranging from in capacity .
It can also be used as a unit of energy , expressed as an equivalent  of कोयले जले , टीएनटी detonated , or in प्रशीतन  , ice melted .
In  ब्रिटेन , ton is प्रयुक्त in कठबोली  in several contexts to mean `` 100 '' .
As a cost or a speed , a ton is  widely समझा to be  £100 or 100 mph .
The Stanley Cup ( ) is the championship trophy awarded annually to the National Hockey League ( NHL )  playoff विजेता बाद the निष्कर्ष of the स्टेनली कप  Finals .
Originally commissioned in 1892 as the Dominion Hockey Challenge Cup , the trophy is named for Lord Stanley of Preston , then- Governor General of  कनाडा , जो awarded it to कनाडा 's top-ranking amateur बर्फ हॉकी क्लबों , जिससे the संपूर्ण स्टेनली परिवार समर्थित  , with the sons and daughters playing and promoting the game .
the पहला कप  was awarded in 1893 to Montreal HC .
In 1915 , the two professional ice hockey organizations , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) and the Pacific Coast Hockey  संघ ( pcha ) , पहुँचे  a gentlemen 's agreement in which their respective champions would face each other for the Stanley Cup .
After a series of league mergers and folds , the Stanley `` Presentation Cup '' was established as the de facto championship  ट्रॉफी of the एनएचएल in 1926 और तब the de jure  NHL championship prize in 1947 .
There are actually three Stanley Cups : the original bowl of  the `` डोमिनियन हॉकी चुनौती  Cup '' , the authenticated `` Presentation Cup '' , and the `` Replica Cup '' at the Hall of Fame .
The  एनएचएल रै कायम प्रभावी कंट्रोल  over both the trophy itself and its associated trademarks .
Nevertheless , the NHL  करता नहीं दरअसल अपना the ट्रॉफी  , but instead uses it by agreement with the two Trustees of the Cup .
The NHL has registered trademarks associated with the name and likeness of the Stanley Cup , although the  लीग 's सही to outright  own trademarks associated with a trophy it does not own has been disputed by some legal experts .
Unlike the trophies awarded by the other three major professional sports leagues of North America , a new Stanley Cup is not made each  साल ; विजेता रखना it जबतक a नई चैंपियन is पहनाया  .
It is unusual  among ट्राफियां , in  that it has the names of all of the winning players , coaches , management , and club staff engraved on its chalice .
Initially , a new band added each year  caused the  trophy to grow in size , earning the nickname `` Stovepipe Cup '' .
In 1958 the modern one-piece Cup was designed  साथ a five-band बैरल जिससे could  contain 13 winning teams per band .
To avoid the  स्टेनली कप इससे growing , जब the नीचे  band is full , the oldest band is removed and preserved in the Hockey Hall of Fame , and a new blank band added to the bottom .
It has been referred  to as the कप , रब स्टेनली 's कप , the पावन grail , or facetiously  ( chiefly by sportswriters ) as Lord Stanley 's Mug .
The  स्टेनली कप is घिरी by numerous महापुरूष और परंपराओं  , the oldest of which is the celebratory drinking of champagne out of the cup by the winning team .
The original  कटोरी थी बना of चांदी और is 18.5 सेण्टीमीटर  ( 7.28 inches ) in height and 29 centimetres ( 11.42 inches ) in diameter .
the वर्तमान स्टेनली कप , अव्वल साथ a नक़ल of the असली  bowl , is made of a silver and nickel alloy ; it has a height of 89.54 centimetres ( 35.25 inches ) and weighs 15.5 kilograms ( 34.5 lb / 2 st 61⁄2 lb ) .
Since the 1914–15 season , the  कप रै महरूम जीती  a combined 94 times by 18 active NHL teams and five defunct teams .
Prior to that , the challenge cup was  आयोजित by नौ अलग टीमों  .
The Montreal Canadiens have won the Cup a record 24 times and are currently the last  canadian-based टोली in the एनएचएल to जीत the कप बाद जीतना  it in 1993 .
The Stanley Cup was not awarded in 1919 because of a Spanish flu epidemic , and in 2005 ,  as a consequence of the एनएचएल lockout  .
The Pineapple ( Ananas comosus ) is  a तीव्र संयंत्र साथ खाद्य अनेक फल consisting  of coalesced berries , and the most economically significant plant in the Bromeliaceae family .
pineapples may be cultivated  from a crown cutting of the fruit , possibly flowering in 20–24 months and fruiting in the following six months .
Pineapple  करता नहीं ripen  significantly post-harvest .
Pineapples are consumed fresh , cooked , juiced  , और preserved , और हैं मिला  in a wide array of cuisines .
In addition to consumption , in the Philippines the pineapple 's leaves are used to produce the textile fiber piña - employed as a  घटक of वॉल पेपर और furnishings ,  amongst other uses .
In computer science , an integer is a datum of integral data type , a data type which represents some  परिमित उपसमुच्चय of the गणितीय integers  .
Integral data  प्रकार may  be of different sizes and may or may not be allowed to contain negative values .
Integers are commonly represented in a computer as a  समूह of  binary digits .
The size of the grouping varies so the set of integer sizes available varies  between अलग प्रकार of कंप्यूटर  .
Computer hardware  nearly सदा provides a रास्ता to  represent a processor register or memory address as an integer .
The Gordon Dam in Tasmania is a  विशाल हाइड्रो सुविधा  , with an installed capacity of .
Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated  by hydropower ; the उत्पादन  of electrical power through the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water .
It is the most widely used form of renewable energy , accounting for 16 percent of global electricity generation – 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010  ,  and is expected to increase about 3.1 % each year for the next 25 years .
Hydropower is produced in 150 countries , with the Asia-Pacific region generating 32  प्रतिशत of वैश्विक  hydropower in 2010 .
China is the largest hydroelectricity producer , with 721 terawatt-hours of  उत्पादन in 2010 , representing around 17 प्रतिशत of घरेलू  electricity use .
There are now three hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 GW : the Three Gorges  बांध in चीन , itaipu बांध आरपार the brazil/paraguay  border , and Guri Dam in Venezuela .
The cost of  hydroelectricity is अपेक्षाकृत  low , making it a competitive source of renewable electricity .
The average cost of electricity from a hydro plant  larger than 10 megawatts  is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour .
Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can be ramped  up और bas बहुत  quickly to adapt to changing energy demands .
However , damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can harm local ecosystems , and building large dams  और टंकी  often involves displacing people and wildlife .
Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed , the project produces no direct waste , and has a considerably lower output level  of the ग्रीनहाउस गैस कार्बन  dioxide ( ) than fossil fuel powered energy plants .
Wine boy at  a यूनानी  symposium
The history of wine spans thousands of years  और is closely intertwined साथ the  history of agriculture , cuisine , civilization and humanity itself .
Archaeological evidence suggests that the earliest known  वाइन उत्पादन occurred in कया is अभी the देश of  Georgia around 7000 BCE , with other notable sites in Greater Iran dated 4500 BCE and Armenia 4100 BCE , respectively .
The world 's oldest known winery ( dated to 3000 BCE )  थी खोजा in areni-1 गुफा in a  mountainous area of Armenia .
url_http  .
Increasingly clear archaeological evidence indicates that domestication of the grapevine took place during the Early  कांस्य आयु in the निकट ईस्ट  , Sumer and Egypt from around the third millennium BCE .
Evidence of the earliest wine production in Balkans has been uncovered at archaeological sites  in उत्तरी यूनानियों ( मकदूनिया ) , दिनाँक  to 4500 BC .
These same sites also contain remnants  of the संसार 's earliest प्रमाण  of crushed grapes .
In Egypt , wine became a part of recorded history , playing an important role in ancient  ceremonial  life .
Traces of wild wine  डेटिंग इससे the  second and first millennia BCE have also been found in China .
Moroccan  वाइन kasher लेबल  1930
The Jewish tradition and use  of कोषेर वाइन is डेटिंग  back to biblical times .
The long history of the use and production of  वाइन throughout  ancient Israel is backed up by archeological evidence .
Within  the यहूदी diaspora समुदायों सब around  the globe , the traditional and religious use of kosher wine continued to this day .
Wine , linked in myth to Dionysus / Bacchus , was common in ancient Greece and Rome , and many of today 's major wine-producing regions of Western Europe  यहूद स्थापित साथ  Phoenician and , later , Roman plantations .
Winemaking technology improved considerably during the time of the Roman Empire : many grape varieties and cultivation techniques were known ; the design of the wine press advanced ; and  barrels  were developed for storing and shipping wine .
Rashi , a medieval French rabbi and called the `` father '' of all commentaries that followed on  the talmud और  the Tanakh , earned his living as a vintner .
Following the  मनाही of रोम और इसके industrial-scale  wine production for export , the Christian Church in medieval Europe also became a firm supporter of wine , necessary for celebration of the Catholic Mass . Whereas wine was forbidden in medieval Islamic cultures , its use in Christian libation was widely tolerated .
Geber and other  मुस्लिम chemists pioneered  the distillation of wine for Islamic medicinal and industrial purposes such as perfume .
Wine production  धीरे increased , साथ  consumption burgeoning from the 15th century onwards .
Wine production survived the devastating Phylloxera louse of 1887 and eventually spread to  numerous regions throughout the  world .
Districts of  वेस्ट बंगाल
The Indian state of West Bengal borders with Nepal , Bhutan , Bangladesh and the Indian states of Bihar , Jharkhand , Odisha ,  असम और सिक्किम .
The Himalayas lies in the north of the state and the  खाड़ी of बंगाल is at  the south .
In between them , the  नदी गंगा बहती  eastwards and its main distributary , the Hooghly River , flows south to reach the Bay of Bengal .
The Siliguri  corridor , जिससे connects north-east  India with rest of the India , lies in the North Bengal region of the state .
Geographically , West Bengal is divided into a variety of regions— Darjeeling Himalayan hill region ,  terai और द्वार प्रदेश , उत्तर बंगाल मैदान , rarh प्रदेश , पश्चिमी पठार और  high lands , coastal plains , Sunderbans and the Ganges Delta .
In 1947 ,  जब इण्डिया gained स्वतंत्रता , the राज्य of वेस्ट बंगाल थी  formed with 14 districts , as per partition plan of the then Bengal province of British India .
The former  princely राज्य koch बिहार joined as a ज़िला  in 1950 , and the former French enclave Chandannagore joined as part of the Hooghly district in 1954 .
The States Reorganisation Act of 1956 led to addition of Purulia  ज़िला to the राज्य  and to enlargement of West Dinajpur district .
Later , larger districts such  as वेस्ट दिनाजपुर  , 24 Parganas and Midnapore were bifurcated .
West Bengal  is अभी विभाजित into उन्नीस  districts under three divisions .
Districts are  administered by ज़िला magistrates , और  divisions are administered by Divisional Commissioners .
Kolkata , the capital of the state ,  constitutes the कोलकाता ज़िला  .
Other districts are further divided into  प्रशासनिक इकाई  such as subdivisions and blocks , administered by SDO and BDO , respectively .
The  पंचायती  Raj has a three-tier structure in the state .
The atomic unit  is  called a Gram Panchayat , which is the Panchayat organization for a collection of villages .
The block-level organizations are called  पंचायत samiti , और the district-level  organizations are named Zilla Parishad .
The Caribbean ( or ; ; ; or more commonly Antilles ) is a region that consists of the Caribbean Sea , its islands ( some surrounded by  the caribbean समुद्र और कुछ bordering दोनो the caribbean  Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean ) , and the surrounding coasts .
The region is southeast of the Gulf of Mexico and the North American mainland , east of Central America ,  और उत्तर of दक्षिण  America .
Situated largely on the Caribbean Plate ,  the प्रदेश comprises अधिक than  700 islands , islets , reefs , and cays .
(  देखिए the  list . )
These islands generally form island arcs that delineate  the पूर्वी  and northern edges of the Caribbean Sea .
The  caribbean आइलैंड्स , consisting of the वृहद antilles on the उत्तर और the lesser  Antilles on the south and east ( including the Leeward Antilles ) , are part of the somewhat larger West Indies grouping , which also includes the Lucayan Archipelago ( comprising the Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands ) north of the Greater Antilles and Caribbean Sea .
in a wider भाव , the मेनलैंड देशों  of Belize and Guyana – historically and culturally part of the British West Indies – may be included .
Geopolitically , the Caribbean islands are usually regarded as a subregion of North America  और हैं व्यवस्थित into 30  territories including sovereign states , overseas departments , and dependencies .
From January 3 , 1958 , to May 31 , 1962 , there was a short-lived country called the Federation of  the वेस्ट इंडीज रचित of टेन english-speaking caribbean  territories , all of which were then UK dependencies .
The West Indies cricket team continues to  represent अनेक of those राष्ट्र  .
This is a list of the 221 towns and 13 cities  in the  U.S. state of New Hampshire .
For each town/city , the table lists the county to which it belongs , its date of incorporation , its population according to the 2010 census , its form of government  ,  and its principal villages .
Cities  हैं indicated  in boldface .
शहरों और कस्बों हैं treated  identically under state law .
Cities are just towns whose form of government was changed by a special act  of the नई हैम्पशायर विधानमंडल  .
However , towns currently are able to change their form of government by simple voter  स्वीकृति of a नई नगरपालिका चार्टर , साथ अनेक of the अधिक  populous towns having already done so .
The main slave  रूट in मध्यकालीन  Africa .
This article  discusses प्रणालियों , इतिहास , और  effects of slavery within Africa .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade , Maafa , and Slavery in  समकालीन अफ़्रीकी लिये अन्य चर्चाएँ  .
``  स्लेव हस्तांतरण  in Africa '' .
europeans प्रायः किया नहीं  enter the interior regions .
Slavery  in अफ़्रीकी रै existed throughout the महाद्वीप  for many centuries , and continues in the current day .
प्रणालियों of servitude  and slavery were common in many parts of the continent , as they were in much of the ancient world .
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent , the enslaved people were largely  treated as indentured बन्दों और नहीं treated as chattel  slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began , many of the local  स्लेव प्रणालियों बदला और began supplying captives लिये स्लेव  markets outside of Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms and some of these do not clearly fit the  परिभाषाएं of गुलामी elsewhere  in the world .
Debt slavery , enslavement  of युद्ध captives , सैन्य  slavery , and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan trade from the interior of Sub-Saharan Africa to other regions , slavery was a small part of the economic life  of अनेक समाजों in अफ़्रीकी जबतक the परिचय of transcontinental स्लेव ट्रेड  ( Arab and Atlantic ) .
Slave practices were again transformed with European  colonization of अफ़्रीकी और the औपचारिक  abolition of slavery in the early 1900s .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10 , 1969 ) is a former American football quarterback who spent the  बहुमत of उसके करियर साथ the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स  of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
he थी a 20-year दिग्गज of the एनएफएल , having निभाई क्वार्टरबैक  for the Atlanta Falcons ( 1991 ) , Green Bay Packers ( 1992 – 2007 ) , New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500 touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over 6,000  completions , और over 10,000 pass  attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being selected in the  दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल  Draft by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ) .
He was traded to Green Bay  on फ़रवरी 10 , 1992 , लिये the 19th  pick in the 1992 NFL Draft .
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in the fourth game of the 1992 season , stepping in for  घायल क्वार्टरबैक डॉन majkowski , और प्रारंभ प्रत्येक खेल through  the 2007 season .
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008  ऋतु पहले हस्ताक्षर साथ the वाइकिंग्स on अगस्त 18 , 2009 as उनके starting  quarterback .
He made an NFL record  297 लगातार  starts ( 321 including playoffs ) .
He is the only player to win  the ap सबसे मूल्यवान  Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has  led टीमों to आठ प्रभाग championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997  , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , five NFC Championship Games ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2007 , 2009 ) , and two Super Bowl appearances ( Super Bowl XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including most career touchdown passes , most career passing yards ,  सबसे करियर pass completions , सबसे करियर pass कोशिशें  , most career interceptions thrown , most consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
He is also referred to by his  उपनाम `` the gunslinger  '' .
Salesforce.com Inc. is a global enterprise  तन्त्र कम्पनी headquartered  in San Francisco , California .
Though best known for its  ग्राहक संबंध प्रबन्धन  ( CRM ) product , Salesforce has also expanded into the `` social enterprise arena '' through acquisitions .
It is currently ranked the most innovative company in America by Forbes magazine , as well as  क्रमांक 27 in सौभाग्य  magazine 's 100 Best Companies to Work For in 2012 .
As of  अप्रैल 2013 , the कम्पनी is क्रमित  sixth in providing services in marketing and customer service automation .
It is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is a constituent  of  the S & P 500 index .
Seahorse is the title given to 54  प्रजाति  of marine fish in the genus Hippocampus .
``  हिप्पोकैम्पस '' आता इससे  the Ancient Greek hippos meaning `` horse '' and kampos meaning `` sea monster '' .
धरती is the तीसरा  planet from the Sun , and the densest and fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System .
It is also the largest of the Solar  प्रणाली 's  four terrestrial planets .
It is sometimes  referred  to as the world or the Blue Planet .
Earth  formed लगभग 4.54  billion years ago , and life appeared on its surface within its first billion years .
Earth 's biosphere then  significantly altered the वायुमंडलीय और अन्य मौलिक शारीरिक शर्तें , जिससे सक्रिय the  proliferation of organisms as well as the formation of the ozone layer , which together with Earth 's magnetic field blocked harmful solar radiation , and permitted formerly ocean-confined life to move safely to land .
The physical properties of the Earth , as well as its geological history and  कक्षा , have अनुमत जीवन to अड़  .
Estimates on how much longer the planet will be able to continue to support  जीवन दायरा इससे , to  as long as .
Earth 's lithosphere is divided into several rigid  खण्ड  , or tectonic plates , that migrate across the surface over periods of many millions of years .
About 71 % of the surface is covered by salt water oceans , with the remainder consisting of continents and islands which  साथ have अनेक झीलों और अन्य स्त्रोत  of water that contribute to the hydrosphere .
Earth 's poles are mostly covered with ice that is the solid ice of  the अंटार्कटिक बर्फ चादर और the समुद्र बर्फ कि is the  polar ice packs .
The planet 's interior remains active , with a solid iron inner core , a liquid outer  कोर कि generates the चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड , और a मोटा  layer of relatively solid mantle .
Earth gravitationally interacts with other  वस्तुएँ in स्पेस , विशेषकर  the Sun and the Moon .
During one orbit around  the सूर्य , the धरती घुमाता परिचय  its own axis 366.26 times , creating 365.26 solar days , or one sidereal year .
The Earth 's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4° away from the perpendicular  of इसके कक्षीय प्लेन , producing  seasonal variations on the planet 's surface with a period of one tropical year ( 365.24 solar days ) .
The Moon is Earth 's only natural  उपग्रह .
It  began  orbiting the Earth about .
The Moon 's  गुरुत्वाकर्षक बातचीत साथ धरती  stimulates ocean tides , stabilizes the axial tilt , and gradually slows the planet 's rotation .
The  ग्रह is घर to  millions of species of life , including humans .
Both the mineral resources of the planet and the products of the biosphere  योगदान संसाधन कि हैं प्रयुक्त  to support a global human population .
These inhabitants are grouped into about 200 independent   sovereign states , which interact through diplomacy , travel , trade , and military action .
Human cultures have developed many views of the planet , including its personification  as a ग्रहीय देवता , इसके आकार as चपटा , इसके स्थिति as the बीच of the  universe , and in the modern Gaia Principle , as a single , self-regulating organism in its own right .
The Magician from the Waite-Smith tarot , who is depicted using the same  टूल्स कि आधुनिक wiccans  use .
In the neopagan religion of Wicca , a range of  जादुई  tools are used in ritual practice .
Each of these tools has different uses and associations  , और हैं प्रयुक्त primarily to सीधा  magical energies .
They are used at an altar , inside a  जादू वृत्त .
In traditional Gardnerian Wicca , the tools are often divided into personal tools , which are for use by , and owned by , an individual Wiccan , and coven  टूल्स , प्रयुक्त collectively  by the coven .
This practice may derive partly from Masonic traditions ( such as  the उपयोग of the वर्गाकार और compasses ) , इससे जिससे wicca draws  some material , and partly from the rituals of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn .
The latter made much use of material from medieval grimoires such as the Key of Solomon , which has many illustrations of magical tools  और निर्देश लिये उनके तैयारी  .
Typical  eukaryotic  cell .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy  इससे nutrients into एडीनोसिन ट्राइफॉस्फेट ( एटीपी ) , और तब  release waste products .
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions , which break large molecules into smaller  ones , releasing उर्जा in the प्रक्रम as कमजोर so-called  `` high-energy '' bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products .
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell  gains उपयोगी उर्जा to ईंधन  cellular activity .
Cellular respiration is considered an exothermic  रेडॉक्स प्रतिक्रिया .
The overall reaction is  टूटा into अनेक  smaller ones when it occurs in the body , most of which are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically , cellular  श्वसन is a दहन  reaction , it clearly does not resemble one when it occurs in a living cell .
This difference is because it occurs  in अनेक पृथक  steps .
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction , no single reaction that  comprises it is a दहन  reaction .
Nutrients that are commonly used by animal and plant cells in respiration include sugar , amino acids and fatty  acids , और a आम oxidizing एजेंट ( इलेक्ट्रॉन acceptor ) is आणविक  oxygen ( O2 ) .
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form , thereby  transferring उर्जा लिये उपयोग by the कोशिका ) can तब be प्रयुक्त to ड्राइव प्रक्रियाओं requiring उर्जा , सहित  biosynthesis , locomotion or transportation of molecules across cell membranes .
A stored-pressure fire extinguisher  बना by amerex
A British fire extinguisher with ID sign , call point and  आग कार्रवाई  sign
A fire extinguisher , flame extinguisher , or simply an extinguisher , is an active fire protection device used to extinguish  or कंट्रोल छोटी फ़ायर , प्रायः in आपात  situations .
It is not intended for use on an out-of-control fire , such as one which has reached the ceiling , endangers the user ( i.e. , no  एस्केप रूट  , smoke , explosion hazard , etc . ) , or otherwise requires the expertise of a fire department .
Typically , a fire extinguisher consists of a hand-held cylindrical  दबाव पोत containing  an agent which can be discharged to extinguish a fire .
In the United States , fire  extinguishers , in सब इमारतें अन्य than घरों  , are generally required to be serviced and inspected by a Fire Protection service company at least annually .
Some jurisdictions require more frequent  सेवा लिये आग extinguishers  .
The servicer places a tag on the extinguisher to indicate the type of service performed ( annual inspection , recharge , new  आग extinguisher ) और  when .
There are two main types of fire extinguishers : stored  दबाव और cartridge-operated  .
In stored pressure units , the  expellant is भंडारित in the वही  chamber as the firefighting agent itself .
Depending on the  एजेंट प्रयुक्त , अलग  propellants are used .
With dry chemical  extinguishers , नाइट्रोजन is typically प्रयुक्त  ; water and foam extinguishers typically use air .
Stored  दबाव  fire extinguishers are the most common type .
Cartridge-operated  extinguishers contain the expellant गैस in a पृथक  cartridge that is punctured prior to discharge , exposing the propellant to the extinguishing agent .
This type is not as  आम , प्रयुक्त primarily in क्षेत्रों ऐसे as औद्योगिक  facilities , where they receive higher-than-average use .
They have the advantage of simple and prompt recharge , allowing an operator to  निर्वहन the extinguisher , रिचार्ज it , और वापसी  to the fire in a reasonable amount of time .
Unlike stored pressure types , these extinguishers use compressed carbon dioxide  बजाय of नाइट्रोजन , हालांकि नाइट्रोजन कारतूस  are used on low temperature ( -60 rated ) models .
Cartridge operated extinguishers  हैं उपलब्धियाँ in शुष्क रासायनिक और शुष्क चूर्ण प्रकार in the u.S. और in जल , wetting एजेंट ,  foam , dry chemical ( classes ABC and B.C . ) , and dry powder ( class D ) types in the rest of the world .
Fire extinguishers are further divided into handheld and cart-mounted  , भी पुकारा wheeled  extinguishers .
Handheld extinguishers  तौल इससे 0.5 to 14 गामा ( 1 to  30 pounds ) , and are hence , easily portable by hand .
Cart-mounted  इकाई typically  weigh 23+ kilograms ( 50+ pounds ) .
These wheeled models are most commonly found at construction sites , airport  runways , heliports , as खूब  as docks and marinas .
Native Americans in the  संयुक्त राज्य हैं the स्वदेशी peoples  in North America within the boundaries of the present-day continental United States , Alaska , and the island state of Hawaii .
They are composed of numerous , distinct Native American tribes and ethnic groups , many  of जिससे जीवित as बरकरार  political communities .
The terms used to  refer to देशी अमेरिकी have  been controversial .
According to a 1995 U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी census_bureau ब्यूरो census_bureau नियत of घर साक्षात्कार , सबसे of the उत्तरदाताओं साथ an expressed वरीयता  refer to themselves as American Indians ( or simply Indians ) , and this term has been adopted by major newspapers and some academic groups ; however , this term does not typically include Native Hawaiians or certain Alaskan Natives , such as Aleut , Yup'ik , or Inuit peoples .
Since the end of the 15th century , the migration of Europeans to the Americas , and  उनके importation of africans  as slaves , has led to centuries of conflict and adjustment between Old and New World societies .
Europeans  निर्मित सबसे of the जल्दी लिखा  historical record about Native Americans after the colonists ' immigration to the Americas .
Many Native Americans lived as hunter-gatherer societies and  बताई उनके histories  by oral traditions .
in अनेक समूह , महिलाओं carried  out sophisticated cultivation of numerous varieties of staple crops : maize , beans and squash .
The indigenous cultures were quite different from those of the agrarian ,  proto-industrial , ज़्यादातर ईसाई आप्रवासियों इससे पश्चिमी  Eurasia .
Many Native cultures were matrilineal ; the people occupied lands for use of the entire  जातियाँ , लिये  hunting or agriculture .
Europeans at that time had patriarchal cultures and had developed  अवधारणाओं of व्यक्तिगत प्रॉपर्टी अधिकारों साथ आदर to जमीन  that were extremely different .
The differences in cultures between the established Native Americans and immigrant  europeans , as खूब as shifting  alliances among different nations of each culture through the centuries , caused extensive political tension , ethnic violence and social disruption .
The Native Americans suffered high fatalities from the  सम्पर्क साथ संक्रामक  Eurasian diseases , to which they had no acquired immunity .
Epidemics after European contact caused the greatest loss of life  लिये स्वदेशी populations  .
Estimates of the pre-Columbian  जनसांख्यिकी of कया  today constitutes the U.S. vary significantly , ranging from 1 million to 18 million .
After the colonies revolted against Great Britain and established the United States of America ,  अध्यक्ष जार्ज वॉशिंगटन और हेनरी नॉक्स  conceived of the idea of `` civilizing '' Native Americans in preparation for assimilation as U.S. citizens .
Assimilation ( whether voluntary as with the Choctaw , or forced ) became a  सतत नीति through  American administrations .
During the 19th century , the ideology of manifest destiny became   integral to the American nationalist movement .
Expansion of European-American  populations to the वेस्ट बाद the अमरीकी  Revolution resulted in increasing pressure on Native American lands , warfare between the groups , and rising tensions .
In 1830 , the U.S. Congress passed the Indian Removal Act , authorizing the government to relocate Native Americans from their homelands within established states to lands west of the   Mississippi River , accommodating European-American expansion .
The first European Americans to  एनकाउंटर the पश्चिमी आंतरिक  tribes were generally fur traders and trappers .
There were also Jesuit missionaries active in  the उत्तरी टियर  .
As United States expansion reached into the American West , settler and miner migrants came into increasing conflict  साथ the ग्रेट जलाशय , ग्रेट मैदान , और अन्य  Western tribes .
These were complex nomadic  संस्कृतियों आधारित on घोड़ा  culture and seasonal bison hunting .
They carried out  दमदार प्रतिरोध to संयुक्त राज्य incursions in the  decades after the American Civil War , in a series of Indian Wars , which were frequent up until the 1890s , but continued into the 20th century .
The transcontinental railroad brought more  non-natives into जनजातीय  land in the west .
Over time , the U.S.  मजबूर a श्रेणी of treaties और  land cessions by the tribes , and established reservations for them in many western states .
U.S. agents encouraged Native Americans to adopt European-style farming and similar pursuits , but European-American  agricultural प्रौद्योगिकी of the समय थी अपर्याप्त लिये प्रायः शुष्क रिज़र्वेशन  lands .
In 1924 , Native Americans who were not already U.S.  नागरिकों यहूद  granted citizenship by Congress .
Contemporary  देशी अमेरिकी have a अद्वितीय संबंध साथ  the United States because they may be members of nations , tribes , or bands with sovereignty and treaty rights .
Central America ( ) is the  सेंट्रल भौगोलिक  region of the Americas .
It is the southernmost , isthmian portion of the North  अमरीकी महाद्वीप , जिससे connects साथ दक्षिण  America on the southeast .
When considered part of the unified  महाद्वीपीय मॉडल , it is माना  a subcontinent .
Central America  consists of सात देशों : बेलीज़  , Costa Rica , El Salvador , Guatemala , Honduras , Nicaragua , and Panama .
सेंट्रल अमेरिका is भाग of the mesoamerican biodiversity  hotspot , which extends from northern Guatemala through central Panama .
It is bordered by Mexico to the north , the Caribbean Sea to the  ईस्ट , the उत्तर प्रशांत समंदर to the वेस्ट ,  and Colombia to the south-east .
Central  अमेरिका is an क्षेत्रफल of ,  or almost 0.1 % of the Earth 's surface .
As of  2009 ,  its population was estimated at 41,739,000 .
It has a density of 77  लोगों प्रति  square kilometer .
Scrubs is an American medical comedy-drama television series created by Bill Lawrence that aired from October 2 , 2001 to March  17 , 2010  on NBC and later ABC .
The series follows the lives of employees at the fictional  पवित्र दिल शिक्षण हॉस्पिटल  .
The title is a play on surgical scrubs and a term for a low-ranking person because at the  शुरूआत of the श्रेणी , सबसे of the प्रमुख वर्ण यहूद चिकित्सा  interns .
The series features fast-paced screenplay , slapstick , and surreal vignettes presented mostly as the daydreams of the central  अक्षर , dr. जॉन `` j.d  . ''
Dorian , who is  निभाई by zach braff  .
Actors starring alongside Braff in the first eight seasons included Sarah Chalke , Donald Faison ,  neil flynn , केन जेनकींस , जॉन C. mcginley  and Judy Reyes .
The series has also featured multiple guest  दिखावे by फिल्मी अभिनेताओं , ऐसे as ब्रेंडन फ्रेज़र  , Heather Graham , and Colin Farrell .
In the ninth season , many  नई डाल सदस्यों यहूद introduced  and the show setting moved from a hospital to a medical school .
Out of the original cast , only Braff , Faison and McGinley became regular cast members , while the others with the exception of Reyes  , बना अतिथि दिखावे  .
Braff appeared in six episodes of the ninth  ऋतु पहले  departing .
Kerry Bishé , Eliza Coupe , Dave Franco and Michael Mosley became series  regulars साथ bishé बनने the  show 's new narrator .
scrubs premiered  on October 2 , 2001 on NBC .
The series received  a पीबॉडी  Award in 2006 .
During the  सातवाँ ऋतु , एनबीसी घोषित  that it would not renew the show .
Shortly after the seventh season finale , ABC announced it had picked  up the आठवीं ऋतु of the  series , which began January 6 , 2009 .
The ninth season premiered on  दिसम्बर 1 , 2009  .
On May  14 , 2010 , एबीसी  announced it had officially canceled Scrubs .
An 1817 Boulton  & वाट बीम झोंके इंजन  , used in Netherton at the ironworks of M W Grazebrook .
re-erected on the a38  ( M ) in Birmingham , UK
A steam engine is a  ऊष्मा इंजन कि performs  mechanical work using steam as its working fluid .
using खौलते जल to उपज mechanical गति  goes back about 2,000 years , but early devices were not practical .
Since the late 1700s steam engines have  become a प्रमुख सोर्स of mechanical  power .
The  पहला अनुप्रयोग  were removing water from mines .
In 1781 James Watt  patented a भाप इंजन कि  produced continuous rotative motion .
These 10 hp engines enabled a  चौड़ी दायरा of  manufacturing machinery to be powered .
The engines  could be sited anywhere कि  water and coal or wood fuel could be obtained .
By 1883 , engines that  could provide  10,000 hp had become feasible .
Steam engines could also be applied to  वाहनों ऐसे as कर्षण इंजन और the  railway locomotives which are commonly just called steam engines outside America .
The stationary steam engine was a key component of the Industrial Revolution ,  allowing कारखानों to locate जहाँ  water power was unavailable .
Today steam turbines generate about 90 % of the electric power in the United States using a  किस्में of ऊष्मा स्त्रोत  .
Steam engines are external  दहन  engines , where the working fluid is separate from the combustion products .
Non-combustion heat sources such as solar  शक्ति , नाभिकीय शक्ति  or geothermal energy may be used .
The  आदर्श ऊष्मागतिक  cycle used to analyze this process is called the Rankine cycle .
In the cycle , water is  heated  into steam in a boiler until it reaches a high pressure .
When expanded through pistons or turbines ,  mechanical कार्य is किया  .
the reduced-pressure  steam is then condensed and pumped back into the boiler .
In general usage ,  the पद भाप इंजन can refer to either the एकीकृत भाप पौधे ( सहित  boilers etc . ) such as railway steam locomotives and portable engines , or may refer to the piston or turbine machinery alone , as in the beam engine and stationary steam engine .
Specialized devices such as steam hammers and steam pile drivers are dependent on steam  supplied इससे a पृथक  boiler .
A mill  इंजन इससे  Stott Park Bobbin Mill , Cumbria , England
A  भाप लोकोमोटिव in जर्मनी .this  class of engine was built in 1942 – 1950 and operated commercially until 1988 .
`` Move Bitch '' ( edited version titled `` Move B***h '' or simply `` Move '' ) is the third official single from  rapper ludacris ' एल्बम शब्द of  Mouf .
The single  सुविधाएँ mystikal और  I-20 .
The single reached # 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 making it Ludacris 's first top ten hit on the chart , it also reached # 3  on hot रैप ट्रैक्स और # 3 on hot r &  B/Hip-Hop Singles & Tracks .
Puerto Rican reggaeton duo Maicol & Manuel sampled the song on `` Hoy Me Levanté '' on their  2002 रिलीज yakaleo  .
The song is also  प्रदर्शित in एपीसोड 2 , श्रेणी एक of  British teen comedy/drama Skins .
The song was also used by World Wrestling  entertainment  superstar Montel Vontavious Porter during his short stint in Ring of Honor .
It was also used for April Hunter  in विभिन्न स्वतंत्र  circuits .
It was featured in the movie ATL starring T.I . ,  और ' hancock , ' हालांकि in the latter  , the clean version was used .
A snippet of the song is played during  ट्रैफ़िक रिपोर्ट्स on  many radio stations , usually carrying an urban/hip-hop format .
रिटायर्ड एनबीए स्टार  and now ESPN analyst Jalen Rose is featured in the music video .
The song has been covered by rock band Start Trouble , on their  एल्बम प्रत्येक समाधान रै इसके प्रॉब्लम  .
It was featured on British sitcom The Inbetweeners when the characters Jay and Neil took Will on a 'pussy  पैट्रोल ' in jay 's रेड निसान micra .
It was sampled by  लड़की बात on the पहला track of उसके एल्बम  All Day , `` Oh No '' .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional  monarch of 16 sovereign राज्य , ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms , और उनके  territories and dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and  , in कुछ of उसके realms , carries the  title of Defender of the Faith as part of her full title .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 , Elizabeth became Head of the Commonwealth and queen regnant of seven independent Commonwealth countries :  the  United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992 , the number of her realms varied as  territories gained स्वतंत्रता  and some realms became republics .
At present , in addition to the first four aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados , the Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands , Tuvalu , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and  the grenadines , बेलीज़ , अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा और संत  Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign of years is currently the second  longest लिये a अंग्रेजों monarch ; तभी महारानी विक्टोरिया  has reigned longer at over 63 years .
Elizabeth was born in London and  शिक्षित  privately at home .
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936  on  the abdication of his brother Edward VIII , from which time she was the heir presumptive .
वो began  to undertake public duties during the Second World War , in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947 , she married Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh ,  साथ जिसको वो रै चार children  : Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
Her coronation service took  प्लेस in 1953 और थी the  first to be televised .
The Queen 's  अनेक ऐतिहासिक विज़िट और बैठक  include a state visit to the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms , such as devolution in the United Kingdom and the  patriation of the कनाडाई  constitution .
Times of personal  significance have शामिल the births और विवाह of उसके children , the births of उसके  grandchildren , the investiture of the Prince of Wales , and the celebration of milestones such as her Silver , Golden , and Diamond Jubilees in 1977 , 2002 , and 2012 , respectively .
Major  कार्यक्रम in the महारानी 's शासनकाल have शामिल the परेशानियों in उत्तरी  Ireland , the Falklands War , wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan .
There have been times of personal sorrow for her which include the death of her father at 56 , the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle , Lord Mountbatten , the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis  ) , the मौत in 1997 of उसके पूर्व daughter-in-law , डायना  , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments , but support for the  साम्राज्य और उसके निजी लोकप्रियता  remain high .
Christianity is the  largest धर्म सूचीबद्ध  by Australians in the national census .
In the 2011 Census , 61.1  % of australians यहूद सूचीबद्ध as ईसाई  .
Australia has no  आधिकारिक राज्य  religion and the Australian Constitution protects freedom of religion .
The presence of Christianity in Australia began with the  आगमन of the पहला  Fleet of British convicts in 1788 .
The religion grew to account for  96.1 % of the नेशनल  population at the time of the Federation of Australia in 1901 .
The Anglican Church of Australia ( formerly known as the  गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ) remained the largest denomination  until 1986 , when it was surpassed by the Roman Catholic Church in Australia .
Post-war multiculturalism and a decline in religious observance among some sections of the  जनसांख्यिकी have diversified the जनसांख्यिकी of  religion in Australia .
Of the roughly 61 % identifying as Christian in 2011 , the largest denominations were either  रोमन कैथोलिक ( 25 % ) or anglican ( 17 % ) , साथ the तीसरा largest denomination  being the 5 % affiliated with the Uniting Church in Australia .
post-war आव्रजन रै grown the संख्याएँ belonging to चर्च  like the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of Australia and there are large and growing Pentecostal groups , such as Sydney 's Hillsong Church .
The festivals of Easter and Christmas are public  छुट्टियाँ  in Australia .
Around a quarter of students attend church schools and  ईसाई संगठनों  are leading non-government providers of health and welfare services through organisations like Catholic Health Australia , Anglicare , UnitingCare Australia , the Salvation Army and St Vincent de Paul Society .
Historically significant Australian Christians have included Rev Dr John Dunmore Lang , Saint Mary MacKillop ,  कैथरीन हेलेन spence , पादरी दाउद unaipon , the रेवरेंड  John Flynn and Pastor Sir Doug Nicholls .
High profile contemporary Australian Christians include : Tim Costello Baptist minister and current CEO of World Vision Australia , Frank Brennan  , जेसुइट इंसान अधिकारों वकील  , Cardinal George Pell , Catholic Archbishop of Sydney , Phillip Aspinall the current Anglican Primate and Archbishop of Brisbane , Kevin Rudd , former Labor Prime Minister , and Tony Abbott , leader for the Federal Opposition Liberal Party .
Charter creating  कॉलेजिएट स्कूल  , which became Yale College , October 9 , 1701
Yale University is a private Ivy League  शोध विश्वविद्यालयों स्तिथ in नई  Haven , Connecticut .
Founded in 1701 in the  उपनिवेश of कनेक्टिकट , the विश्वविद्यालयों is  the third-oldest institution of higher education in the United States .
Originally chartered as the `` Collegiate School '' , the institution traces its roots to 17th-century  clergymen जो sought to  establish a college to train clergy and political leaders for the colony .
In 1718 , the College was renamed `` Yale College '' to honor a gift from Elihu Yale , a governor of the British East  इण्डिया कम्पनी  .
In 1861 , the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences became the first U.S.  संस्था to पुरस्कार the phd . yale became a founding  member of the Association of American Universities in 1900 .
Yale  कॉलेज थी रूपांतरित , शुरूआत  in the 1930s , through the establishment of residential colleges : 12 now exist and two more are planned .
Yale  employs over 1,100 संकाय to सिखा और सलाह  about 5,300 undergraduate and 6,100 graduate and professional students .
Almost all tenured professors teach undergraduate courses , more than 2,000 of  जिससे हैं  offered annually .
The University 's assets include an endowment valued at $ 19.4 billion , the  second-largest of कोई अकादमिक संस्था  in the world .
Yale 's system of more  than  two dozen libraries holds 12.5 million volumes .
49 Nobel Laureates have  महरूम संबद्ध  with the University as students , faculty , and staff .
Yale has produced many notable alumni , including five U.S. Presidents , 19  u.S. परम् अदालत  Justices , and several foreign heads of state .
At  the ग्रैजुएट स्तर , yale विधि  School , Yale School of Art , and Yale School of Drama are consistently ranked the top programs in their field .
Yale Law  स्कूल is  the most selective law school in the United States .
Yale students compete  intercollegiately as the yale bulldogs  in the NCAA Division I Ivy League .
The oldest intercollegiate  एथलेटिक इवेंट  in the United States is the Yale-Harvard regatta .
Artemisia tridentata ( `` big sagebrush '' or `` sagebrush '' ) is an aromatic shrub from  the परिवार asteraceae , जिससे grows in arid और semi-arid  conditions , throughout a range of cold desert , steppe , and mountain habitats in the Intermountain West of North America .
The  देशी नाम ``  sagebrush '' is also used for several related members of the genus Artemisia , such as California Sagebrush ( Artemisia californica ) .
Big Sagebrush and other Artemisia species are the dominant plants across large  portions of the ग्रेट जलाशय , covering कुछ 422,000  square miles in 11 western U.S. & Canadian states .
It is the state  पुष्प of  Nevada .
sagebrush provides खाना और  habitat for a variety of species , such as sage grouse , pronghorn antelope , gray vireo , pygmy rabbit , and mule deer .
Big sagebrush was used as an herbal medicine by Native Americans throughout the Intermountain West of North America—especially for preventing infection  in wounds , stopping आतंरिक bleeding , और  treating headaches and colds .
Chemically , the active medicinal  constituents शामिल camphor , terpenoids  , and tannins .
Several major threats exist to sage  ब्रश ecosystems , सहित इंसान settlements , परिवर्तन  to agricultural land , livestock grazing , invasive plant species , wildfires , and climate change .
Yahoo ! Mail is a free email  सेवा offered  by the American search engine company Yahoo !
It was launched in 1997 , and , according to comScore , Yahoo ! Mail is the third-largest web-based email  सेवा साथ 281 लाख उपयोक्ता as of दिसम्बर  2012 .
Currently ,  याहू ! offers तीन  versions of Yahoo ! Mail .
The traditional `` Yahoo ! Mail Classic  '' continues the उपलब्धता of the असली  interface introduced in 1997 .
A  संस्करण introduced in 2005 शामिल a  new Ajax interface , drag-and-drop features , improved search functionality , keyboard shortcuts , address auto-complete , tabs , and other updated features .
In October 2010 , Yahoo ! released a beta version of Yahoo ! Mail , which included improvements to the  डिज़ाइन , प्रदर्शन , ढूंढें कार्यक्षमता  , and Facebook integration .
In May 2011 ,  बीटा परीक्षण  for the new version stopped , and it became the default interface for Yahoo ! Mail .
In early 2008 , Yahoo ! began offering  असीमित मेल भंडार to इसके  users in response to heated competition in the free web-mail market segment .
On June 27 , 2009 , Yahoo ! Messenger was  एकीकृत  with Yahoo ! Mail .
टकोमा ( , ) is a mid-sized  urban port city and the county seat of Pierce County , Washington , United States .
The city is on Washington 's Puget Sound , southwest of  सिएटल , पूर्वोत्तर of the राज्य पूंजी , ओलंपिया , और उत्तरपश्चिम of माउंट rainier नेशनल  Park .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  198,397 , according to the 2010 census .
Tacoma is the  second-largest नगर in the  Puget Sound area and the third largest in the state .
Tacoma also serves as the center of business activity for the South Sound region ,  जिससे रै a जनसांख्यिकी of around 1  million people .
Tacoma adopted its name  बाद the आसपास माउंट rainier  , originally called Mount Tahoma .
It is known as the `` City of Destiny '' because the area was chosen to be the western terminus of the Northern Pacific  रेलरोड in the लेट 19th  century .
The decision of  the रेलरोड थी बहकावे  by Tacoma 's neighboring deep-water harbor , Commencement Bay .
By connecting the bay with the railroad  टकोमा 's motto became  `` When rails meet sails . ''
Today Commencement Bay serves the Port of  टकोमा , a बीच  of international trade on the Pacific Coast and Washington state 's largest port .
Like most central cities , Tacoma suffered a  prolonged मनाही in the mid-20th सदी  as a result of suburbanization and divestment .
Since the 1990s , developments in the downtown core include the University of Washington Tacoma ; Tacoma Link , the first modern electric light rail service in the state ; the state 's  उच्चतम घनत्व of आर्ट और इतिहास संग्रहालय ; और a लौटी शहरी waterfront , the thea  Foss Waterway .
With a long history of blue-collar labor politics — from the railroad workers of the  19th सदी , to the longshoremen of the 20th सदी , to the मजदूर तैयार  workers of today — Tacoma has long been known for its rough , gritty image .
A song about Tacoma , ``  thrice सब अमरीकी '' , by अमरीकी singer-songwriter  and former resident Neko Case , describes it as `` a dusty old jewel in the South Puget Sound / where the factories churn / and the timber 's all cut down '' .
Tacoma-Pierce County  रै महरूम नामित एक of the  most livable areas in the country .
Tacoma was also recently listed as  the 19th सबसे walkable नगर  in the country .
In contrast , the city is  भी क्रमित as the सबसे  stressed-out city in the country in a 2004 survey .
In 2006 , women 's magazine Self named Tacoma the `` Most  sexually स्वस्थ नगर '' in the संयुक्त  States .
In 2012 , The Advocate gave Tacoma the  शीर्षक of `` gayest नगर in अमेरिका '' , in भाग क्युकी of the विशाल विविधता of पब्लिक  offices held , and Washington State passing a bill in 2012 allowing LGBT couples to marry .
Tacoma is famous for the 1940 collapse of the  टकोमा narrows सेतु  .
Chula Vista ( ; ) is the second largest city in the San Diego  महानगर क्षेत्रफल , the सातवाँ largest  city in Southern California , the fourteenth largest city in the State of California , and the 77th-largest city in the United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 243,916 as  of the 2010 census .
Located just from downtown San  डिएगो और इससे the मैक्सिकन किनारा in the दक्षिण खाड़ी प्रदेश of the महानगर  area , the city is at the center of one of the richest economic and culturally diverse zones in the United States .
Chula Vista is  so नामित क्युकी of इसके दर्शनीय  location between the San Diego Bay and coastal mountain foothills .
Founded in the early 19th century , fast population  विकास रै recently महरूम observed in the  city .
As the second  largest नगर in सैन डिएगो  County , Chula Vista has quickly become a destination popular to many tourists .
Located in the city is one of America 's few year-round United States Olympic Training centers and popular tourist  गंतव्यों शामिल  Cricket Wireless Amphitheater , the Chula Vista marina , and the Chula Vista Nature Center .
Metes and bounds is a system or method of describing land , real property ( in contrast to  निजी  property ) or real estate .
The system has been used in England for many  सदियां , और is स्टिल प्रयुक्त वहीँ  in the definition of general boundaries .
By custom , it was applied in the original  तेरह colonies कि became the संयुक्त राज्य , और in अनेक अन्य जमीन  jurisdictions based on English common law .
Typically the system uses physical features of the local geography , along with  दिशानिर्देश और दूरियाँ , to define  and describe the boundaries of a parcel of land .
The boundaries are described in a running prose style , working  around the पार्सल in अनुक्रम , इससे a  point of beginning , returning back to the same point ; compare with the oral ritual of beating the bounds .
It may include references to other adjoining parcels ( and their owners ) , and it , in turn , could also be referred to  in बाद  surveys .
At the time the description is compiled , it may have been marked on the ground with permanent monuments placed  जहाँ वहीँ यहूद no उपयुक्त प्राकृतिक  monuments .
The term `` metes '' refers to a boundary defined by the  मापन of प्रत्येक सीधा चलाएं , निर्दिष्ट by a अलहदा between the टर्मिनल  points , and an orientation or direction .
A direction may be a simple compass bearing , or a precise  अभिविन्यास संकल्पित by सटीक सर्वेक्षण विधि  .
The term `` bounds '' refers to a more general boundary description ,  ऐसे as साथ a निश्चित watercourse  , a stone wall , an adjoining public road way , or an existing building .
The system is often  प्रयुक्त to define larger टुकड़े of प्रॉपर्टी ( e.g . खेतो  ) , and political subdivisions ( e.g . town boundaries ) where precise definition is not required or would be far too expensive , or previously designated boundaries can be incorporated into the description .
Sir  इसहाक़ न्यूटन ( 25 दिसम्बर 164220  March 1727 ) was an English physicist and mathematician who is widely regarded as one of the most influential scientists of all time and as a key figure in the scientific revolution .
His book Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` Mathematical Principles of  प्राकृतिक दर्शनशास्त्र '' ) , पहला प्रकाशित in 1687 , रखी the मूलाधार  for most of classical mechanics .
Newton also made seminal contributions to optics and shares credit with  गॉटफ्राइड लैबनिट्ज़ लिये the आविष्कार of the infinitesimal  calculus .
Newton 's Principia formulated the laws of motion and universal gravitation that dominated scientists ' view of the physical universe for the  अगला तीन सदियां  .
It also demonstrated that  the गति of वस्तुएँ on the धरती और कि of celestial लाशें could  be described by the same principles .
By deriving Kepler 's laws of planetary motion from his  गणितीय वर्णन of गम्भीरता , न्यूटन removed  the last doubts about the validity of the heliocentric model of the cosmos .
Newton built the first practical reflecting telescope and developed a theory of  रंग आधारित on the अवलोकन कि a प्रिज़्म decomposes  white light into the many colours of the visible spectrum .
He also formulated an empirical law of cooling and  पढ़ाई the गति of ध्वनि  .
In addition to his work on the calculus , as a mathematician Newton contributed to the study of power series ,  generalised the द्विपद प्रमेय to non-integer  exponents , and developed Newton 's method for approximating the roots of a function .
Newton was a fellow of Trinity College and the second Lucasian Professor of  गणित at the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Cambridge .
He was a devout but  अपरंपरागत ईसाई और , unusually लिये a सदस्य  of the Cambridge faculty , he refused to take holy orders in the Church of England , perhaps because he privately rejected the doctrine of trinitarianism .
In addition to his work on the mathematical sciences , Newton also dedicated much of his time to the study of alchemy and biblical  कालक्रम , लकिन सबसे of उसके कार्य in those क्षेत्रों  remained unpublished until long after his death .
In his later life , Newton  became अध्यक्ष of the royal  Society .
He  भी परोसा the अंग्रेजों  government as Warden and Master of the Royal Mint .
Prof. Walter Lewin explains Newton 's law of  gravitation in एमआईटी कोर्स  8.01
Satellites and projectiles all obey Newton 's law  of gravitation
Newton 's law of universal gravitation states that every point mass in the  ब्रह्मांड attracts प्रत्येक अन्य  point mass with a force that is directly proportional to the product of their masses and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them .
( Separately it was  दिखाया कि विशाल spherically सममित masses  attract and are attracted as if all their mass were concentrated at their centers . )
This is a general physical law derived from empirical  observations by कया न्यूटन  called induction .
It is a  भाग of शास्त्रीय यांत्रिकी और थी प्रतिपादित  in Newton 's work Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica ( `` the Principia '' ) , first published on 5 July 1687 .
( When Newton 's book was presented in 1686 to the Royal Society ,  रॉबर्ट hooke बना a अर्जी कि न्यूटन था प्राप्त the  inverse square law from him – see History section below . )
In modern  भाषा , the विधि  states the following:
Assuming SI units , F is measured in newtons ( N ) , m1 and m2  in गामा ( kg ) , r in मीटर ( m ) , और the  constant G is approximately equal to .
The value of the constant G was first accurately determined from the results of the Cavendish experiment conducted  by the अंग्रेजों वैज्ञानिक हेनरी कैवेंडिश in 1798 , हालांकि कैवेंडिश किया नहीं खुद गणना a  numerical value for G .
This experiment was also the first test of Newton 's theory  of gravitation between masses  in the laboratory .
It took place 111 years after the publication of Newton 's Principia and 71 years after Newton 's death , so none of  न्यूटन 's calculations could उपयोग  the value of G ; instead he could only calculate a force relative to another force .
Newton 's law of gravitation resembles  कूलम्ब 's विधि of विद्युत  forces , which is used to calculate the magnitude of electrical force between two charged bodies .
Both are inverse-square laws , in which force is inversely proportional to the square of the distance between  the  bodies .
Coulomb 's Law has the product of two charges in place of the product  of the masses , और  the electrostatic constant in place of the gravitational constant .
न्यूटन 's विधि रै चूंकि महरूम superseded  by Einstein 's theory of general relativity , but it continues to be used as an excellent approximation of the effects of gravity .
Relativity  is जरूरी तभी जब वहीँ is a need लिये चरम  precision , or when dealing with gravitation for extremely massive and dense objects .
White and red flags , representing Iraqi and American deaths , sit in the grass quadrangle of The Valley Library on the Corvallis  , ऑरेगॉन , कैम्पस of ऑरेगॉन राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों  .
As part of the traveling Iraq Body Count exhibit from 2008 to 2009 ( not  सम्बन्धित to इराकी देह  Count project ) , the flags aim to `` raise awareness of the human cost of the Iraq War . ''
(  may  2008 )
Casualties  of the विरोध in इराकी चूंकि 2003 ( शुरूआत साथ the  2003 invasion of Iraq , and continuing with the ensuing occupation of Iraq , as well as the activities of the various armed groups operating in the country ) have come in many forms , and the accuracy of the information available on different types of Iraq War casualties varies greatly .
The table below summarizes various estimates of the Iraqi  casualty आंकड़े  .
For troops in the U.S.-led multinational coalition , the death toll is carefully tracked and updated daily , and the names and  छायाचित्र of those मारे in कार्रवाई as खूब  as in accidents have been published widely .
A total of 4,486 U.S.  सैनिको यहूद मारे  in Iraq between 2003 and 2012 .
Regarding the Iraqis , however , information on both military and civilian  हताहत is दोनो  less precise and less consistent .
Estimates of casualty levels are available  इससे पत्रकारों on the झाँकी , इससे officials  of involved organizations , and from groups that summarize information on incidents reported in the news media .
The word `` casualties `` in its most  सामान्य  sense includes the injured as well as the dead .
Accounts of the number of coalition wounded vary widely , partly because it is not obvious what  चाहिए be गिने : चाहिए तभी those चोटों  serious enough to put a soldier out of commission be included ?
Do illnesses or injuries caused by accidents count , or should the focus be  प्रतिबंधित to wounds caused by शत्रु सगाई  ?
Sources using different definitions may arrive at very different numbers , and  sometimes the precise परिभाषा  is not clearly specified .
Asalto al coche ( Robbery of  the कोच )  , by Francisco de Goya
A highwayman was a thief  और brigand जो preyed on travellers  .
This type of outlaw usually travelled and robbed by horse , as compared to a footpad who travelled  और robbed on पैर  .
Mounted  लुटेरों यहूद widely  considered to be socially superior to footpads .
Such robbers operated  in ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड  from the Elizabethan era until the early 19th century .
The word highwayman is first known to be used in the year 1617 ; other  euphemisms शामिल  `` knights of the road '' and `` gentlemen of the road . ''
Two terms applied to  19th-century उत्तर अमरीकी highwaymen यहूद सड़क एजेंटों in कुछ उदाहरण लिये पहाड़ डाकुओं  while in other cases the term is Rlallaala for mountain-based ruffians .
In the same time  काल in ऑस्ट्रेलिया ,  they were known as bushrangers .
Earvin `` Magic '' Johnson , Jr. ( born August 14 , 1959 ) is a retired American professional basketball player who played point  गार्ड लिये the लॉस एंजिल्स लेकर्स of the नेशनल बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए  ) .
After winning championships in high  स्कूल और कॉलेज  , Johnson was selected first overall in the 1979 NBA Draft by the Lakers .
He won a championship and an NBA Finals Most Valuable  खिलाड़ी पुरस्कार in उसके रुकी ऋतु , और जीती चार अधिक  championships with the Lakers during the 1980s .
Johnson retired abruptly  in 1991 बाद announcing कि he था contracted  HIV , but returned to play in the 1992 All-Star Game , winning the All-Star MVP Award .
After protests from his fellow players , he retired again for four years , but returned in 1996 , at age 36 , to play 32 games for the Lakers before retiring  लिये the तीसरा और फाइनल समय  .
Johnson 's career achievements include  तीन एनबीए mvp पुरस्कार , नौ एनबीए फाइनल दिखावे , बारह all-star खेल ,  and ten All-NBA First and Second Team nominations .
He led the league in regular-season assists four times , and  is the एनबीए 's all-time  leader in average assists per game , at 11.2 .
Johnson was a member of the `` Dream Team ``  , the  U.S. basketball team that won the Olympic gold medal in 1992 .
After leaving the  एनबीए in 1992 , जॉनसन formed the जादू जॉनसन  All-Stars , a barnstorming team that travelled around the world playing exhibition games .
Johnson was honored as one of the 50 Greatest Players  in एनबीए इतिहास in 1996 , और enshrined  in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2002 .
He was rated the greatest NBA point  गार्ड of सब समय by  ESPN in 2007 .
His friendship and rivalry with Boston Celtics star Larry Bird , whom  he faced in the 1979 ncaa फाइनल  and three NBA championship series , were well documented .
Since his retirement , Johnson has been an advocate for HIV/ AIDS prevention and safe sex , as well as an entrepreneur , philanthropist ,  प्रसारणकर्ता और प्रेरक  speaker .
Johnson was a part-owner of the Lakers for several years , and was part of a  समूह कि खरीदा the लॉस  Angeles Dodgers in 2012 .
Allium  कोशिकाएं in अलग  phases of the cell cycle
The cells of eukaryotes ( left ) and  prokaryotes ( सही  )
The cell is the basic  संरचनात्मक  , functional and biological unit of all known living organisms .
It is the smallest unit of life that is classified as a living thing ( except virus , which consists only from DNA/RNA covered by protein and lipids )  , और is प्रायः पुकारा the भवन  block of life .
It consists of a protoplasm enclosed within a membrane , which contains many biomolecules such  as प्रोटीन और nucleic  acids .
जीवों can be वर्गीकृत  as unicellular ( consisting of a single cell ; including most bacteria ) or multicellular ( including plants and animals ) .
While the  क्रमांक of कोशिकाएं in  plants and animals varies from species to species , Humans contain about 100 trillion ( 1014 ) cells .
Most plant and animal cells are between 1 and 100 micrometres  और इसलिए हैं दृश्य  only under the microscope .
The cell was discovered by  रॉबर्ट hooke  in 1665 .
The cell theory , first developed in 1839 by Matthias Jakob Schleiden and Theodor Schwann , states that all organisms are  रचित of एक or अधिक कोशिकाएं , कि सब कोशिकाएं आइये इससे preexisting कोशिकाएं , कि vital कृत्यों  of an organism occur within cells , and that all cells contain the hereditary information necessary for regulating cell functions and for transmitting information to the next generation of cells .
Cells emerged on  ग्रह धरती at तनिक  4.0–4.3 billion years ago .
The  शब्द कोशिका आता इससे  the Latin cella , meaning `` small room '' .
The descriptive term for the smallest living biological  ढांचा थी coined by रॉबर्ट hooke in a किताब he प्रकाशित in 1665 जब he compared  the cork cells he saw through his microscope to the small rooms monks lived in .
Grecian  सूत्र is a मेन 's बाल  coloring product in the United States .
Canada and Europe previously banned the product  क्युकी of इसके  use of lead acetate .
A motor scooter 's front with an impractical  क्रमांक और किस्में of headlamps  , added for decorative purposes
A  headlamp is a बल्ब संलग्न  to the front of a vehicle to light the road ahead .
Headlamp  प्रदर्शन  has steadily improved throughout the automobile age , spurred by the great disparity between daytime and nighttime traffic fatalities : the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration states that nearly half of all traffic-related fatalities occur in the dark , despite only 25 % of traffic travelling during darkness .
While it is common  लिये the पद हेडलाइट to be प्रयुक्त interchangeably  in informal discussion , headlamp is the term for the device itself , while headlight properly refers to the beam of light produced and distributed by the device .
Other vehicles , such as  रेल और वायुयान  , are required to have headlamps .
Bicycle headlamps are often used on bicycles ,  और हैं जरूरी  in some jurisdictions .
They can  be संचालित  by a battery or a small electrical generator on the wheel .
additionally ऑटोमोटिव रात्रि  vision systems work to supplement headlamps .
Women 's rights are the rights and entitlements  claimed लिये महिलाओं और लड़कियों  of many societies worldwide .
In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law , local custom , and behaviour , whereas in  अन्य वे may be  ignored or suppressed .
They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and traditional bias  विरूद्ध the कसरत of अधिकारों by महिलाओं और लड़कियों in पक्ष of  men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include , though are not limited to , the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote (  suffrage ) ; to थाम पब्लिक दफ्तर ; to कार्य ; to मेला मजदूरी or बराबर अदा ; to अपना प्रॉपर्टी ;  to education ; to serve in the military or be conscripted ; to enter into legal contracts ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as Whoopi Goldberg ( , ( born November 13 ,  1955 ) is an अमरीकी comedienne , अभिनेत्री , singer-songwriter , राजनैतिक activist , लेखक  and talk show host .
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple (  1985 ) , playing  Celie , a mistreated black woman in the Deep South .
She received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress and won her first  सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार  for her role in the film .
In 1990 , she played Oda Mae Brown , a wacky psychic helping a slain man ( Patrick Swayze )  सहेजें उसके प्रेमी ( demi मूर ) in the  blockbuster Ghost .
This  प्रदर्शन जीती उसके a दूसरी सुनहरी ग्लोब  and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win an acting Oscar—the first being Hattie McDaniel who won for Gone With the Wind in 1939 .
Notable later films include Sister Act and Sister Act 2 , The  खिलाड़ी , बना in अमेरिका , कैसा स्टेला  Got Her Groove Back , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also  acclaimed लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ as the बारटेंडर guinan in स्टार ट्रेक : the अगला पीढी  , as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash , and as Carmen Tibideaux in Glee , as well as the voice of Shenzi the hyena in The Lion King .
Goldberg has been nominated for 13 Emmy  पुरस्कार लिये उसके कार्य  in television .
She was  co-producer of the लोकप्रिय  game show Hollywood Squares from 1998 to 2004 .
She  रै महरूम the  moderator of the daytime talk show The View since 2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two Daytime Emmys , two Golden Globes , a Tony ( for  उत्पादन , नहीं एक्टिंग ) , और an ऑस्कर  .
In addition , Goldberg  रै a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार , चार लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार , और  has been honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
She is one of the few  मनोरंजनकर्ता जो have  won an Emmy , Grammy , Oscar , and Tony Award .
the नेशनल हॉकी लीग ( एनएचएल ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit संघ '' जिससे operates  a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs , of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New York City , the NHL is widely considered to be the premier  पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी लीग in the संसार , और एक of the प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल लीग  in the United States and Canada .
The Stanley  कप , the oldest पेशेवर खेल  trophy in North America , is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season .
The league was organized on November 26  , 1917 , in मॉन्ट्रियल , क्यूबेक , कनाडा , बाद the बर्खास्तगी of परिचालन  of its predecessor organization , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started  साथ चार टीमों और , through  a series of expansions , contractions , and relocations , the league is now composed of 30 active franchises .
The nation to which the name of the league  originally  referred was Canada , although the league has now been binational since 1924 when it expanded into the United States .
After a labour dispute that led to the cancellation of the entire 2004–05 season , the league resumed play under a new collective  bargaining अनुबंध कि शामिल a सैलरी  cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of  sponsorships  , attendance , and television audiences .
The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world and currently has  खिलाड़ी इससे परिचय 20 अलग देशों .
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority  of the खिलाड़ी in the एनएचएल , over the पास्ट चार प्लस  decades the percentages of US and European players have increased both because of the NHL 's continued expansion from six to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
maggots  feeding on carrion .
A maggot is the larva of a fly ( order Diptera ) ; it is applied in  particular to the लार्वे of brachyceran उड़ता , ऐसे as houseflies , चीज उड़ता  , and blowflies , rather than larvae of the Nematocera , such as mosquitoes and Crane flies .
`` Maggot  '' is नहीं a तकनीकी  term and should not be taken as such ; in many standard textbooks of entomology it does not appear in the index at all .
In many non-technical texts the term is used for  कीट लार्वे in सामान्य  .
Other sources have coined their own  परिभाषाएं ; लिये उदाहरण :  `` ...
The term applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared ... '' and `` ...  लागू to the footless लार्वे of  Dipters . ''
Maggot-like fly larvae are of wide importance in ecology and medicine ; among other roles , various species  हैं prominent in रीसाइक्लिंग  carrion and garbage , attacking crops and foodstuffs , spreading microbial infections , and causing myiasis .
Herod ( , Hordos , Greek : , Hērōdēs ) , also known  as हेरोदेस the ग्रेट ( 73/74 bce – 4 bce in जेरिको  ) , was a Roman client king of Judea .
His epithet of `` the Great '' is widely disputed as he is described as `` a madman who  murdered उसके अपना परिवार  and a great many rabbis `` .
He is also known for his colossal building projects in Jerusalem and  elsewhere , सहित उसके विस्तार of the दूसरी टेम्पल in जेरूसलम  ( sometimes referred to as Herod 's Temple ) and the construction of the port at Caesarea Maritima .
Important  विवरण of उसके जीवनी हैं gleaned इससे the  works of the 1st century CE Roman–Jewish historian Josephus Flavius .
The Romans made Herod 's son , Herod Archelaus , ethnarch of Judea , Samaria , and Idumea (  biblical edom ) इससे 4 bce to 6 ce , referred to as the tetrarchy  of Judea .
Archelaus was judged  incompetent by the रोमन सम्राट augustus जो तब संयुक्त samaria  , Judea proper and Idumea into Iudaea province under rule of a prefect until age 41 .
Herod 's other son Herod Antipas was  tetrarch of galilee इससे 4 bce–39  CE .
ABO blood group antigens  उपस्थित on रेड रक्त कोशिकाएं और igm  antibodies present in the serum
The ABO blood group system is the most important blood type  प्रणाली ( or रक्त  group system ) in human blood transfusion .
The associated  anti-a और anti-b antibodies हैं प्रायः igm antibodies  , which are usually produced in the first years of life by sensitization to environmental substances such as food , bacteria , and viruses .
ABO blood types are also present in some other animals , for  उदाहरण apes ऐसे as chimpanzees  , bonobos , and gorillas .
Year 1907 ( MCMVII ) was a common  साल starting on मंगलवार ( कड़ी होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग  ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Monday of the 13-day-slower Julian calendar .
Northville is an affluent city located in  और विभाजित  by Oakland and Wayne counties in the U.S. state of Michigan .
the क्षेत्रफल is  a suburb of Metropolitan Detroit .
The population was 5,970 at the 2010  जनसांख्यिकी  .
Most of the city is in Oakland County ,  और is घिरी by the नगर of  Novi .
The Wayne County portion is surrounded by  northville township  .
Northville  is परोसा by northville  Public Schools .
The city  is स्तिथ  northeast of Ann Arbor and northwest of Detroit .
Elaine Stritch ( born February 2 , 1925 ) is an  अमरीकी अभिनेत्री और  vocalist .
She has appeared in numerous stage  plays और musicals  , feature films , and many television programs .
She is known for her performance of `` The Ladies Who Lunch '' in Stephen Sondheim 's 1970 musical Company , her 2001 one-woman show , Elaine  stritch at स्वतंत्रता , और recently लिये उसके भूमिका as जोकर donaghy  's mother Colleen on NBC 's 30 Rock .
She has been nominated  लिये the टोनी पुरस्कार पाँच टाइम्स  in various categories .
Stritch is also  a three-time  Emmy Award winner .
Misfits is a British science fiction comedy-drama television show about a group of young offenders sentenced to work in a community service programme , where  वे obtain अलौकिक शक्तियां बाद a अजीब विद्युत  storm .
The series opened in  2009 और is फिलहाल  ongoing .
Antonia Thomas , Iwan Rheon , Lauren Socha , Nathan Stewart-Jarrett , and Robert Sheehan are introduced as Alisha  डैनियल्स , साइमन bellamy , केली बेली , कर्टिस डोनोवन  , and Nathan Young respectively .
sheehan बाएँ बाद the दूसरी  series , replaced in the third by Joseph Gilgun as Rudy Wade .
After the fourth series was announced Rheon ,  थामस और socha था बाएँ उनके भूमिकाएँ और होता  be replaced by new characters Karla Crome , Nathan McMullen and Matt Stokoe , as Jess , Finn and Alex respectively .
Midway through the fourth series , Stewart-Jarrett left  जबकि नताशा o'keeffe joined the डाल as ऐबी स्मिथ  .
On 19 March 2013 , Channel 4 announced at a press event that they have renewed Misfits for  a पांचवां और फाइनल श्रेणी containing 8 एपीसोड  .
Brett Lorenzo Favre ( born October 10 ,  1969 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक जो खर्च the बहुमत of  his career with the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was a 20-year veteran of the NFL , having played  क्वार्टरबैक लिये the अटलांटा falcons ( 1991 ) , ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स  ( 1992 – 2007 ) , New York Jets ( 2008 ) and Minnesota Vikings ( 2009 – 2010 ) .
Favre is the only quarterback in NFL history to throw for over 70,000 yards , over 500  touchdowns , over 300 interceptions , over 6,000 completions , और  over 10,000 pass attempts .
Favre started at the quarterback position for the University of Southern Mississippi for four years before being  चयनित in the दूसरी गोलाकार of the 1991 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट  by Atlanta ( 33rd overall ) .
He was traded  to ग्रीन खाड़ी on फ़रवरी  10 , 1992 , for the 19th pick in the 1992 NFL Draft .
Favre became the Packers ' starting quarterback in  the  fourth game of the 1992 season , stepping in for injured quarterback Don Majkowski , and started every game through the 2007 season .
He was traded to the New York Jets and started at quarterback for the 2008 season  पहले हस्ताक्षर साथ  the Vikings on August 18 , 2009 as their starting quarterback .
he बना an एनएफएल  record 297 consecutive starts ( 321 including playoffs ) .
He is  the तभी खिलाड़ी to जीत the  AP Most Valuable Player three consecutive times ( 1995–97 ) .
He has led teams to eight division championships ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 , 2002 , 2003 , 2004 , 2007 , 2009 ) , five NFC Championship Games ( 1995 , 1996 , 1997 ,  2007 , 2009 ) , और दो सुपर कटोरी दिखावे ( सुपर कटोरी  XXXI , Super Bowl XXXII ) , winning one ( Super Bowl XXXI ) .
He holds many NFL records , including most career touchdown passes , most career passing  गज , सबसे  career pass completions , most career pass attempts , most career interceptions thrown , most consecutive starts by a player , most consecutive starts by a quarterback , most career victories as a starting quarterback , most sacked , and most fumbles .
He is also  referred to by उसके उपनाम  `` The Gunslinger '' .
The following is a  सूची of notable वायुयान  hijackings around the world .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly known as  the वेब ) , is a प्रणाली of interlinked  hypertext documents accessed via the Internet .
With a web browser ,  एक can दृश्य वेब पृष्ठों कि may contain  text , images , videos , and other multimedia , and navigate between them via hyperlinks .
Using concepts  इससे उसके पहले हाइपरटेक्स्ट प्रणालियों जैसे enquire , अंग्रेजों  engineer , computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN , Sir Tim Berners-Lee , now Director of the World Wide Web Consortium ( W3C ) , wrote a proposal in March 1989 for what would eventually become the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau proposed in 1990 to use hypertext `` to link and access information  of विभिन्न kinds as a वेब of नोड in जिससे the उपयोक्ता can ब्राउज़ at होगा '' , और वे सरेआम introduced the प्रोजेक्ट in दिसम्बर of the वही  year .
Wayne Lyman Morse ( October 20 , 1900July 22 , 1974 ) was a politician and attorney from Oregon , United States , known for his proclivity for opposing his parties ' leadership , and specifically  लिये उसके विपक्ष to the वियतनाम युद्ध on  constitutional grounds .
Born in Madison , Wisconsin , and educated at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the University of Minnesota Law School , Morse moved to Oregon in  1930 और began शिक्षण at the विश्वविद्यालयों of  Oregon School of Law .
During  संसार युद्ध ii he थी निर्वाचित to the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट as a रिपब्लिकन ; he became an स्वतंत्र बाद ड्वाइट D. आइज़नहावर 's चुनाव to the प्रेसिडेंसी in 1952 .
While an independent , he set a record for performing the second longest one-person filibuster  in the इतिहास  of the Senate .
Morse joined the Democratic Party in 1955 , and was  reelected twice जबकि a सदस्य  of that party .
Morse made a brief run for the Democratic Party 's  अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1960  .
A few years later , Morse was one of only two Senators who opposed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution , which authorized the president to take military action  in  Vietnam without a declaration of war .
He continued to speak out against the  युद्ध in the ensuing सालो , और खोया उसके 1968  bid for reelection to Bob Packwood , who criticized his strong opposition to the war .
Morse made  दो अधिक बोलियों लिये reelection  to the Senate before his death in 1974 .
In parliamentary procedure , a motion to table  रै दो  different and contradictory meanings:
In the  संयुक्त राज्य , to तालिका प्रायः अर्थात् the to lay  [ the topic ] on the table or to move for postponement of consideration ; a proposal to suspend consideration of a pending motion .
Much less often , it means a  गति to `` put on the तालिका '' : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू विचार ( or  reconsideration ) , a usage consistent with the rest of the English-speaking world .
In the rest of the English-speaking world such as the United Kingdom , to table means to move to place [ the topic ] upon the table ( or to move to place on the  तालिका ) : a प्रस्ताव to शुरू विचार  ( or reconsideration ) of a proposal .
Both the American and the British dialects have the sense of `` to table '' as to lay [ the topic ] on the  तालिका or to कारण [ the टॉपिक ] to झूठ on the तालिका  .
The difference is the idea of what the table is for ,  कि of a शेल्फ बंद to the पक्ष , or an क्रियाशील  work bench .
The British meaning has the sense of the table as being an  क्रियाशील कार्य  bench , with the topic being the center of attention , considered and discussed by all until it can be resolved , at which point it is taken off the 'table ' .
The American sense is that the table is like that of a shelf , archive , or long-term  भंडार यंत्र , जहाँ the टॉपिक रै महरूम disposed of by sending  it to the 'table ' and leaving it there .
Toy Story 3 is a 2010  अमरीकी 3d कंप्यूटर एनिमेटेड comedy-drama  prison film , and the third installment in the Toy Story series .
It  थी उत्पादित  by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
निर्देशित by ली unkrich , the फिल्मी थी released  worldwide from June through October in Disney Digital 3-D , RealD , and IMAX 3D .
Toy Story 3  थी भी the पहला फिल्मी  to be released theatrically with Dolby Surround 7.1 sound .
The screenplay was written by Michael Arndt , while Unkrich wrote the  स्टोरी साथ साथ जॉन lasseter और एंड्रयू  Stanton , respectively director and co-writer of the two first films .
The plot focuses on the toys Woody , Buzz Lightyear , and their  मित्रों dealing साथ an अनिश्चित  future as their owner , Andy , prepares to leave for college .
Actors Tom Hanks , Tim Allen , Joan Cusack , Don Rickles , Estelle Harris , John Ratzenberger , Wallace Shawn , Jeff Pidgeon , Jodi Benson , R. Lee Ermey , John Morris , and Laurie Metcalf reprised their  voice-over भूमिकाएँ इससे the पिछला  films .
Jim Varney , who played Slinky Dog in the first two films ,  और जो ranft , जो portrayed lenny और wheezy  , both died before production began on Toy Story 3 .
The  भूमिका of slinky श्वान थी लिया  over by Blake Clark ( a friend of Varney ) , while Ranft 's characters and various others were written out of the story .
New characters  शामिल प्रदर्शन by ned beatty , टिमोथी डाल्टन  , Kristen Schaal , Bonnie Hunt , Whoopi Goldberg , Jeff Garlin , Richard Kind , and Michael Keaton .
The  विशेषता broke  Shrek the Thirds record as the biggest opening day North American gross for an animated film unadjusted for inflation , and a big opening with an unadjusted gross of $ 110,307,189 .
It is also the highest-grossing opening  वीकेंड लिये a पिक्चर्स फिल्मी , as खूब as the highest-grossing  opening weekend for a film to have opened in the month of June .
This is the highest-grossing  फिल्मी of 2010 , दोनो in the संयुक्त  States and Canada , and worldwide .
In early August , it became Pixar 's  highest-grossing फिल्मी at the उत्तर अमरीकी बक्सा दफ्तर ( surpassing ढूंढना nemo ) ,  and the highest-grossing animated film of all time worldwide ( surpassing Shrek 2 ) ; later that month , Toy Story 3 became the first ever animated film in history to make over $ 1 billion worldwide .
It is currently  the 10th-highest-grossing  film of all time .
Toy Story 3 was nominated for five  अकादमी पुरस्कार , सहित बेहतरीन चित्र ,  Best Adapted Screenplay , and Best Sound Editing .
It was the third animated film ( after Beauty and the Beast and Up ) to be  मनोनीत लिये अकादमी  Award for Best Picture .
It won the awards for Best  एनिमेटेड विशेषता  and Best Original Song .
John Levell Starks ( born August 10 ,  1965 ) is an अमरीकी रिटायर्ड पेशेवर  basketball shooting guard .
Starks was listed at 6'5 '' and 190  पाउंड दौरान उसके  NBA playing career .
Although he was not  drafted  in the 1988 NBA Draft after attending four colleges in his native Oklahoma , including Oklahoma State University , he gained fame while playing for the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association in the 1990s .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in  पोर्टेबल डिवाइस , ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन , डिजिटल कैमरे , gps नेविगेशन  devices , and tablet computers .
The Secure Digital standard is  कायम by the sd कार्ड  Association ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across dozens  of उत्पाद श्रेणी और अधिक than 8,000 मॉडल  .
The Secure  डिजिटल स्वरूप शामिल चार कार्ड  families available in three different form factors .
The four families are the  असली standard-capacity ( sdsc ) , the high-capacity  ( SDHC ) , the eXtended-Capacity ( SDXC ) , and the SDIO , which combines input/output functions with data storage .
The three form factors are the original size , the ``  मिनी '' आकार , और the  `` micro '' size ( see illustration ) .
वहीँ  are many combinations of form factors and device families .
Electrically  passive adapters allow  the use of a smaller card in a host device built to hold a larger card .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward  संगतता और accept पुरानी sd ताश , लकिन इस  article explains several factors that can prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may offer greater capacity than the  मेजबान यंत्र can हैंडल  .
A newer card may use a file system  the मेजबान यंत्र can  not navigate .
Use of an SDIO card requires  the मेजबान यंत्र be designed  for the input/output functions the card provides .
The  संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला  starting with the SDHC family .
Some vendors produced SDSC cards above 1 GB before the SDA had  मानकीकृत a विधि of doing  so .
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with  इसके विशेषताएँ और assure उपयोक्ता of संगतता  .
ह्यूज जॉन mungo ग्रान्ट (  born 9 September 1960 ) is a British actor and film producer .
He has received a  सुनहरी ग्लोब , a  BAFTA , and an Honorary César .
His films have earned more than US $ 2.4 billion from 25  नाट्य रिलीज विश्वव्यापी  .
Grant achieved international  स्टारडम बाद appearing  in Richard Curtis 's successful Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ) .
He used this breakthrough role  as a बारंबार cinematic persona  during the 1990s , delivering comic performances in mainstream films like Mickey Blue Eyes ( 1999 ) and Notting Hill ( 1999 ) .
By the turn of the 21st century , he had established himself as a  अग्रणी man skilled साथ a satirical  comic talent .
Grant has expanded his  oeuvre साथ critically  acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ) , About A Boy ( 2002 ) , Love Actually ( 2003 ) , and American Dreamz ( 2006 ) .
He later played against type with  अनेक कैमियो भूमिकाएँ in the एपिक  drama film Cloud Atlas ( 2012 ) .
Within the film industry , Grant is cited as an anti-film star who approaches his roles like a character actor ,  और कोशिशें to मेक उसके एक्टिंग appear  spontaneous .
Hallmarks of his comic skills include a  nonchalant  touch of irony / sarcasm and studied physical mannerisms as well as his precisely-timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions .
The entertainment media 's coverage of Grant 's life off the big  स्क्रीन  has often overshadowed his work as a thespian .
He has been vocal about his disrespect for the profession  of एक्टिंग , और in उसके तिरस्कार towards the संस्कृति  of celebrity and hostility towards the media .
In a career  spanning 30 सालो , ग्रान्ट रै repeatedly claimed कि एक्टिंग is  not a true calling but just a job he fell into .
The Han Dynasty ( ; ) ( 206 BC – 220 AD ) was an  इम्पीरियल राजवंश of चीन , preceded by  the Qin Dynasty ( 221–207 BC ) and succeeded by the Three Kingdoms ( 220–280 AD ) .
It was  संस्थापित by  the rebel leader Liu Bang , known posthumously as Emperor Gaozu of Han .
it थी briefly  interrupted by the Xin Dynasty ( 9–23 AD ) of the former regent Wang Mang .
This interregnum separates the Han into two periods : the Western Han ( 206 BC – 9 AD ) and  पूर्वी हान ( 25–220  AD ) .
Spanning over four centuries ,  the काल of the हान राजवंश  is considered a golden age in Chinese history .
To this day , China 's majority ethnic group refers to itself as  the `` हान  people '' and the Chinese script is referred to as `` Han characters `` .
The  हान साम्राज्य थी विभाजित  into areas directly controlled by the central government , known as commanderies , and a number of semi-autonomous kingdoms .
These kingdoms gradually lost all vestiges of their  स्वतंत्रता , विशेषकर  following the Rebellion of the Seven States .
The Xiongnu , a nomadic confederation which dominated the eastern Eurasian Steppe ,  पराजित the हान  army in battle in 200 BC .
Following the defeat , a political marriage alliance was  negotiated in जिससे the हान  became the de facto inferior partner .
When , despite the treaty , the Xiongnu continued to raid  हान सीमायें , सम्राट wu  of Han ( r. 141–87 BC ) launched several military campaigns against them .
The ultimate Han victory in these wars  आखिरकार मजबूर the xiongnu to accept  vassal status as Han tributaries .
These campaigns expanded Han sovereignty into the Tarim Basin of Central Asia and helped establish the vast trade network  ज्ञात as the रेशा सड़क , जिससे पहुँचे as दूर as the भूमध्यसागरीय संसार .
Han forces managed to divide the Xiongnu into two competing nations , the Southern  और उत्तरी  Xiongnu , and forced the Northern Xiongnu across the Ili River .
Despite these  victories , the territories  north of Han 's borders were quickly overrun by the nomadic Xianbei Confederation .
After 92 AD , the palace eunuchs  increasingly शामिल themselves in अदालत राजनीती , engaging in  violent power struggles between the various consort clans of the empresses and empress dowagers , causing the Han 's ultimate downfall .
Imperial authority was also seriously challenged by large Daoist religious societies which instigated the  पीला पगड़ी विद्रोह और the पाँच pecks  of Rice Rebellion .
Following the death of Emperor Ling ( r. 168–189 AD ) , the palace eunuchs suffered wholesale  नरसंहार by सैन्य अधिकारियों , allowing सदस्यों of the aristocracy  and military governors to become warlords and divide the empire .
When Cao Pi , King of Wei , usurped the throne from Emperor Xian , the Han  राजवंश ceased to मौजूद  .
The Han Dynasty  थी an आयु of आर्थिक समृद्धि  and saw a significant growth of the money economy first established during the Zhou Dynasty ( c. 1050–256 BC ) .
the coinage जारी by the  central government mint in 119 BC remained the standard coinage of China until the Tang Dynasty ( 618–907 AD ) .
To pay  लिये इसके सैन्य  campaigns and the settlement of newly conquered frontier territories , the government nationalized the private salt and iron industries in 117 BC .
These government monopolies were repealed during the Eastern Han  काल , और the खोया आय थी recouped  through heavily taxing private entrepreneurs .
the सम्राट थी  at the pinnacle of Han society .
He presided over the Han government but shared power with both the nobility  और नियुक्त मंत्रियों जो आए largely इससे  the scholarly gentry class .
From the reign of Emperor Wu onward , the Chinese court officially sponsored  confucianism in शिक्षा और अदालत राजनीती ,  synthesized with the cosmology of later scholars such as Dong Zhongshu .
This policy endured until the fall of the  चिंग राजवंश in 1911  AD .
Science and technology during the Han period saw significant advances , including papermaking , the  nautical परिचालन अरित्र , the उपयोग of ऋणात्मक संख्याएँ in गणित  , the raised-relief map , the hydraulic -powered armillary sphere for astronomy , and a seismometer employing an inverted pendulum .
Tourette syndrome ( also called Tourette 's syndrome , Tourette 's disorder , Gilles de la Tourette syndrome , GTS or , more commonly , simply Tourette 's or TS ) is an inherited neuropsychiatric disorder with  onset in बाल्यकाल , characterized by अनेक शारीरिक  ( motor ) tics and at least one vocal ( phonic ) tic .
These tics characteristically wax and  wane , can be suppressed temporarily  , and are preceded by a premonitory urge .
Tourette 's is defined as part of a spectrum of tic disorders , which includes  क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक  tics .
Tourette 's was once considered a rare and bizarre syndrome , most often associated with the exclamation of obscene  शब्द or socially अनुचित और अपमानजनक remarks ( coprolalia ) , लकिन  this symptom is present in only a small minority of people with Tourette 's .
Tourette 's is no longer considered a rare condition , but it is not always correctly identified because most cases are mild and the severity of  tics decreases लिये सबसे children as वे pass through किशोरावस्था .
Between 0.4 % and 3.8 % of children ages 5 to 18 may have Tourette 's ; the  व्यापकता of क्षणिक और दीर्घकालिक tics in school-age  children is higher , with the more common tics of eye blinking , coughing , throat clearing , sniffing , and facial movements .
Extreme Tourette 's in adulthood is a rarity , and Tourette 's does not  adversely affect प्रज्ञा or जीवन प्रत्याशा  .
Genetic and environmental factors play a role in the etiology of  tourette 's , लकिन the सटीक कल्याणकारी  are unknown .
In most  मामले , दवा  is unnecessary .
There is no effective treatment for every case of  tics , लकिन निश्चित medications  and therapies can help when their use is warranted .
Education is an important part of any treatment plan , and  स्पष्टीकरण और reassurance अलोन  are often sufficient treatment .
Comorbid conditions ( co-occurring diagnoses other than Tourette 's ) such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD )  और obsessive–compulsive विकार ( ओसीडी ) हैं उपस्थित  in many patients seen in tertiary specialty clinics .
These other  शर्तें प्रायः कारण अधिक कार्यात्मक पुतलियों to the व्यक्तिगत than the tics कि हैं the hallmark  of Tourette 's , hence it is important to correctly identify comorbid conditions and treat them .
The eponym was bestowed by Jean-Martin Charcot ( 1825–1893 ) on behalf of his resident , Georges Albert Édouard Brutus Gilles de la Tourette  ( 1859–1904 ) , a फ्रेंच चिकित्सक और neurologist  , who published an account of nine patients with Tourette 's in 1885 .
सनबीम  badge .
Sunbeam was a marque registered by John  marston co. ltd of wolverhampton  , England , in 1888 .
The company first made bicycles , then  मोटरसाइकिल और गाड़ियाँ इससे the लेट 19th सदी  until about 1936 , and applied the marque to all three forms of transportation .
The company also  manufactured एयरो इंजन in the पहला  World War and 647 aircraft during the Second World War .
A Sunbeam was the first British car to win a Grand Prix  रेस , और नियत a क्रमांक of जमीन गति  records .
The  कम्पनी  went into receivership in 1935 and was purchased by the Rootes Group , which continued to use the Sunbeam marque .
Fox News Channel ( FNC ) , also known as Fox News , is a cable news channel owned by the Fox  entertainment समूह , a subsidiary of न्यूज  Corporation .
As of April 2009 , the  चैनल थी उपलब्धियाँ to 102 लाख  households in the United States and to viewers internationally , broadcasting primarily from its New York studios .
The channel was created by Australian-American media mogul Rupert Murdoch , who hired former NBC executive  रोजर ailes as इसके  founding CEO .
It  शुभारम्भ on अक्तूबर 7  , 1996 to 17 million cable subscribers .
It  grew दौरान the लेट 1990s  and 2000s to become the dominant cable news network in the United States .
Critics have stated that Fox News Channel promotes  रूढ़िवादी राजनैतिक स्थितियाँ  and biased reporting .
Commentators , news anchors , and reporters at Fox News Channel have responded that news reporting and political commentary operate independently of each  अन्य , और have अस्वीकृत कोई पूर्वाग्रह in न्यूज रिपोर्टिंग  .
The mandibular first molar or six-year molar is the tooth located distally ( away from the midline of the face ) from both the  mandibular दूसरी premolars of the मुँह लकिन mesial ( toward  the midline of the face ) from both mandibular second molars .
it is स्तिथ on the mandibular ( निम्नतर ) मेहराब of the मुँह  , and generally opposes the maxillary ( upper ) first molars and the maxillary 2nd premolar in normal class I occlusion .
The function of this molar is similar to that of  सब molars in लिहाज़ to पीस  being the principal action during mastication , commonly known as chewing .
There are usually five well-developed cusps on mandibular first molars : two on the buccal  ( पक्ष निकटतम the  cheek ) , two lingual ( side nearest the tongue ) , and one distal .
There are great differences between the deciduous  ( baby ) mandibular molars और those of the स्थाई  mandibular molars , even though their function are similar .
The permanent mandibular molars are not considered to have  कोई दांत कि precede  it .
Despite being named molars , the deciduous molars are  followed by स्थाई  premolars .
In the universal   system of notation , the deciduous mandibular first molars are designated by a letter written in uppercase .
The right  पतझड़ी mandibular पहला molar is  known as `` S '' , and the left one is known as `` L '' .
The international notation has a different  प्रणाली of संकेतन  .
Thus , the right deciduous mandibular first  molar is ज्ञात as  `` 84 '' , and the left one is known as `` 74 '' .
In the universal system of notation , the  स्थाई mandibular पहला  molars are designated by a number .
The  सही स्थाई  mandibular first molar is known as `` 30 '' , and the left one is known as `` 19 '' .
The Palmer  संकेतन उपयोग a क्रमांक in संयोजन  with a symbol designating in which quadrant the tooth is found .
For this tooth , the left and right first molars would have  the वही क्रमांक , `` 6 '' , लकिन  the right one would have the symbol , `` ┐ '' , over it , while the left one would have , `` ┌ '' .
The international notation has a different numbering system than the previous two , and the right permanent  mandibular पहला molar is ज्ञात as `` 46  '' , and the left one is known as `` 36 '' .
Mandibular primary first  molars प्रायः  have four pulp horns .
The first molar is usually the first  स्थाई दाँत to erupt और रै  adult undertones .
Anatomy : The  mandibular पहला molar रै पाँच पुलिन : the mesiobuccal ( mb , toward midline और  cheek ) , mesiolingual ( ML , toward midline and tongue ) , distolingual ( DL , away from midline and towards tongue ) , distobuccal ( DB , away from midline and toward cheek ) , and distal ( D , away from midline ) , listed in order of decreasing size .
Listed in order of  अवरोहण ऊँचाई वे हैं : ml , dl , df  , MF , and D. An eighth cusp was found in a primary second lower molar in an Argentinean child .
Viewed from the top of the tooth ( occlusal view ) ,  the mandibular पहला molar is pentagonal ( पाँच  sided ) in shape and tapers toward the lingual , with the sides being the buccal surface , the mesial surface , the lingual surface , distal surface , and the distobuccal surface .
The  occlusal  surface has four grooves .
The central groove is not straight but  रनों bas the बीच of the दाँत mesially to distally और contains  four pits ( mesial , central , central , and distal ) .
The distobuccal groove runs from the  distal गड्ढे in the सेंट्रल नाली distobuccally  separating the distal and distobuccal cusps .
The lingual  नाली रनों इससे the अधिक distal of the सेंट्रल  pits in the central groove toward the lingual surface between the mesiolingual and distolingual cusps .
The buccal groove runs from the more mesial of the central pits in the  सेंट्रल नाली toward the buccal सतह  between the mesiobuccal and distobuccal cusps ending in the buccal pit .
The portion of the central groove between  the सेंट्रल गड्ढों is termed the लुईस ऑफसेट और is अनिवार्य  to account for the locations of the buccal and lingual grooves ( buccal groove being more mesial than the lingual groove while they are parallel ) .
From the buccal ( buccal view ) , two  जड़ें हैं उपस्थित  .
the distal रूट is generally straighter  , although both often have a slight distal curvature .
The heights of  रुपरेखा on the mesial और distal  contact the adjacent teeth and are located at the junction of the occlusal and middle thirds of the crown .
The Florida  विधानमंडल is the दो घरों कि अधिनियम as the राज्य  legislature of the U.S. state of Florida .
The Florida  संविधान राज्य कि `` the विधान  power of the state shall be vested in a legislature of the State of Florida , '' composed of a Senate and House of Representatives .
The legislature is seated  at the  Florida State Capitol in Tallahassee .
Stained glass depiction of Daniel  interceding साथ arioch  , the king 's guard .
Arioch had been charged with killing all the wise men after  वे यहूद नहीं समर्थ to interpret nebuchadnezzar  's dream .
Daniel 2 is the second chapter of the  किताब of डेनियल  in the Hebrew Bible .
The chapter 's source  टेक्स्ट is predominantly  written in Aramaic .
According to the text , Nebuchadnezzar is the king of Babylon who is  troubled by उसके सपनो  .
He demands an interpretation for his  सपनो or होगा have उसके  mystic interpreters executed .
Daniel seeks Divine Wisdom to interpret the king  's सपनो और गुणगान  God with a short psalm .
God gives Daniel a vision in the night to reveal the king  's  dream .
Able to satisfy the king , Daniel is promoted over  the पूरे प्रांत of बाबुल  .
One Comcast Center , the headquarters of  comcast in  Philadelphia , PA .
The old Comcast logo from 1969 to  1999 , जब it थी  replaced with the crescent logo .
The Comcast Corporation is an American provider of entertainment , information and  संचार उत्पाद  and services .
It is the largest cable operator , one of the  biggest द्रव्यमान मीडिया , घर अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाता , और तीसरा largest घर  telephone service provider in the United States , providing cable television , broadband Internet , telephone service and in some areas home security ( including burglar alarms , surveillance cameras , fire alarm systems and home automation ) to both residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia .
The  कम्पनी is headquartered  in Philadelphia , Pennsylvania .
In 2011 , Comcast acquired a 51 % majority stake in media conglomerate NBCUniversal from GE in January 2011 , and  began the प्रक्रम  of purchasing the remaining 49 % on February 12 , 2013 , at a cost of $ 16.7 billion .
It  समाप्त  the purchase on March 19 , 2013 .
Comcast also has significant holding in several cable networks (  सहित  E !
Entertainment Television , Style Network , G4 , the Golf Channel  और एनबीसी खेल संजाल ) , वितरण ( theplatform  ) , and related businesses .
Comcast has been the subject of criticism for activities including its stance on  जाल neutrality , as खूब as ग़रीब परिणाम on ग्राहक  satisfaction surveys .
Porcupines are rodents with a coat of sharp spines , or quills  , कि बचाव और  camouflage them from predators .
They are indigenous to the Americas , southern  एशिया , और अफ़्रीकी .
Porcupines are the third largest of  the rodents , पीछे the capybara  and the beaver .
Most  porcupines हैं परिचय long  , with an long tail .
weighing ,  they are rounded , large and slow .
Porcupines  आइये in विभिन्न  shades of brown , gray , and the unusual white .
Porcupines ' spiny protection resembles that of  the unrelated  erinaceomorph hedgehogs and monotreme echidnas .
The common porcupine is a  herbivore  .
It eats leaves , herbs , twigs and green plants like skunk cabbage  और क्लोवर और in the शीत it may  eat bark .
The North American porcupine often climbs trees  to ढूँढें  food .
The African porcupine is not a climber and  forages on the मैदान  .
It is  ज़्यादातर nocturnal , लकिन होगा sometimes  forage for food in the day .
Porcupines have become a pest  in कीनिया और हैं  eaten as a delicacy .
The name porcupine comes from Middle French porc  espin ( spined  pig ) .
A  क्षेत्रीय अमरीकी  name for the animal is quill pig .
First page of US patent 129,843 for  सुधार in lubricators  for Steam-Engines
Elijah J. McCoy ( May 2 , 1844 – October 10 , 1929 ) was a black Canadian-American  आविष्कारक और इंजीनियर  , who was notable for his 57 U.S. patents , most to do with lubrication of steam engines .
Born free in Canada , he returned as a  five-year-old चाइल्ड साथ उसके परिवार to the संयुक्त राज्य in 1847 , जहाँ he जिया  for the rest of his life and became a US citizen .
Honda FCX Clarity , a hydrogen fuel cell  demonstration गाडी  introduced in 2008
A hydrogen  गाडी is a गाडी  that uses hydrogen as its onboard fuel for motive power .
Hydrogen vehicles include hydrogen fueled  स्पेस rockets , as खूब as ऑटोमोबाइल  and other transportation vehicles .
The power plants of such vehicles convert the chemical energy of hydrogen to  mechanical उर्जा  either by burning hydrogen in an internal combustion engine , or by reacting hydrogen with oxygen in a fuel cell to run electric motors .
Widespread use of hydrogen for fueling  परिवहन is a कुंजी तत्व  of a proposed hydrogen economy .
Hydrogen fuel does not occur  naturally on धरती और यूँ is नहीं an उर्जा  source ; rather it is an energy carrier .
It is most frequently made from methane or other fossil fuels , but it can  be  produced using sources ( such as wind , solar , or nuclear ) that are intermittent , too diffuse or too cumbersome to directly propel vehicles .
Integrated wind-to-hydrogen plants , using electrolysis  of जल , हैं exploring technologies  to deliver costs low enough , and quantities great enough , to compete with traditional energy sources .
Many companies are working to develop  technologies कि might efficiently exploit the  potential of hydrogen energy for mobile uses .
the आकर्षण  of using hydrogen as an energy currency is that , if hydrogen is prepared without using fossil fuel inputs , vehicle propulsion would not contribute to carbon dioxide emissions .
The drawbacks of hydrogen use are high capital cost , low energy content per unit volume , high tankage weights , very high storage vessel pressures , the storage , transportation and filling of gaseous or liquid hydrogen in vehicles , the  विशाल निवेश in अवसंरचना कि होता be जरूरी to ईंधन वाहनों ,  and the inefficiency of production processes .
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the सीट of सरकारी  of Sacramento County .
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the  अमरीकी नदी in the उत्तरी portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's expansive  Central Valley .
With an estimated 2011 population of 477,891 , it is  the sixth-largest नगर in कैलिफ़ोर्निया  and the 35th largest city in the United States .
Sacramento is the core  सांस्कृतिक और आर्थिक बीच of the  Sacramento metropolitan area which includes seven counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth largest in California after the Greater Los Angeles Area ,  सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल , और the सैन डिएगो महानगर क्षेत्रफल  , as well as the 25th largest in the United States .
Sacramento was cited by Time magazine as America 's most  ethnically और  racially integrated city in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of the Swiss  अप्रवासी जॉन  Sutter , Sr. , his son John Sutter , Jr. , and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew quickly thanks to the protection of Sutter 's Fort ,  जिससे थी स्थापित by sutter  in 1839 .
During the California Gold Rush , Sacramento was a major distribution point  , a वाणिज्यिक और agricultural  center , and a terminus for wagon trains , stagecoaches , riverboats , the telegraph , the Pony Express , and the First Transcontinental Railroad .
California State University , Sacramento , more commonly known as Sacramento  राज्य or सैक राज्य , is the largest लोकल विश्वविद्यालयों  .
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of the California State University  प्रणाली  .
Drexel University Sacramento is  स्तिथ in शहर  , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific 's  mcgeorge स्कूल  of Law is located in the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition , the University of California  , डेविस is स्तिथ in आसपास  Davis , west of the capital .
The UC Davis Medical Center , a world-renowned research  हॉस्पिटल , is स्तिथ  in the city of Sacramento .
The Apple Store is a chain of  खुदरा स्टोर्स स्वामित्व और संचालित by  Apple Inc. , dealing in computers and consumer electronics .
The stores sell Macintosh personal computers , software , iPods , iPads , iPhones , third-party  accessories  , and other consumer electronics such as Apple TV .
Some high profile stores feature a Theatre for presentations and workshops and a Studio for training  साथ ठहराना उत्पाद ; सब स्टोर्स प्रस्ताव a प्रतिभाशाली बार लिये तकनीकी support और मरम्मत  , as well as free workshops available to the public .
Under the  नेतृत्व of रॉन जॉनसन , the पूर्व वरिष्ठ वाइस अध्यक्ष  of Retail Operations , the Apple Stores have , according to an article in the New York Times , been responsible for `` [ turning ] the boring computer sales floor into a sleek playroom filled with gadgets '' .
, Apple has 405 stores worldwide , with global sales of billion in merchandise in  2011 , और वे सीसे the संयुक्त राज्य  retail market in terms of sales per unit area .
Steven Paul `` Steve '' Jobs ( ; February 24 , 1955 – October 5 , 2011 ) was an American entrepreneur and inventor , best known as  the co-founder , अध्यक्ष , और सीईओ of  Apple Inc .
Through Apple , he was widely recognized as a charismatic pioneer of the personal computer revolution and for his influential  करियर in the कंप्यूटर और उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स फ़ील्ड , transforming  `` one industry after another , from computers and smartphones to music and movies ... ''
Jobs also co-founded and served as chief executive of Pixar Animation Studios ; he  became a सदस्य of the फलक of निर्देशकों of the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी  Company in 2006 , when Disney acquired Pixar .
Jobs was among the first to see the commercial potential of  xerox parc 's चूहा -ड्राइवn आलेखीय  user interface , which led to the creation of the Apple Lisa and , one year later , the Macintosh .
He also played a role in introducing the LaserWriter , one of the first  widely उपलब्धियाँ लेज़र मुद्रक , to the मार्केट  .
After a power struggle with the board of directors in 1985 , Jobs left Apple  और संस्थापित अगला , a कंप्यूटर मंच विकास कम्पनी specializing in the higher-education  and business markets .
In 1986 , he acquired the computer graphics  प्रभाग of लुकासफ़िल्म  , which was spun off as Pixar .
He was credited in Toy Story ( 1995 )  as an कार्यपालिका निर्माता  .
He served as CEO and majority shareholder until Disney 's  खरीदें of पिक्चर्स in  2006 .
In 1996 , after Apple had failed to deliver its operating system , Copland , Gil Amelio turned to NeXT Computer ,  और the nextstep मंच became the न्यास  for the Mac OS X .
Jobs returned to Apple as an advisor , and  took कंट्रोल  of the company as an interim CEO .
Jobs brought  ठहराना इससे निकट दिवालियापन  to profitability by 1998 .
As the new CEO of the company , Jobs oversaw the development of the iMac , iTunes , iPod , iPhone , and iPad , and on the  सेवाएं पक्ष , the कम्पनी 's ठहराना खुदरा स्टोर्स  , iTunes Store and the App Store .
The success of these products and services provided several  सालो of stable वित्तीय रिटर्न ,  and propelled Apple to become the world 's most valuable publicly traded company in 2011 .
The reinvigoration of the company is regarded  by अनेक टीकाकारों as एक of the महानतम  turnarounds in business history .
In 2003 ,  कार्य थी diagnosed  with a pancreas neuroendocrine tumor .
Though it was initially treated , he  reported  a hormone imbalance , underwent a liver transplant in 2009 , and appeared progressively thinner as his health declined .
On medical leave for most of 2011 , Jobs resigned in  अगस्त कि साल , और थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष of  the Board .
He died of respiratory arrest  सम्बन्धित to उसके metastatic  tumor on October 5 , 2011 .
Jobs received a number of honors and public  मान्यता लिये उसके influence  in the technology and music industries .
He has been referred to as `` legendary '' , a `` futurist '' or simply `` visionary '' , and has been described as the ``  पिता of the डिजिटल क्रान्ति ''  , a `` master of innovation '' , and a `` design perfectionist '' .
Entrance to section ( 52 ) of the Colosseum  , साथ numerals स्टिल  visible
Roman numerals , the numeric  प्रणाली in प्राचीन रोम , उपयोग combinations  of letters from the Latin alphabet to signify values .
The numbers 1 to 10 can be  expressed in रोमन  numerals as follows:
और  .
The  रोमन numeral प्रणाली  is a cousin of Etruscan numerals .
Use of Roman numerals continued after  the मनाही of the रोमन साम्राज्य  .
From the 14th  सदी on , रोमन numerals began  to be replaced in most contexts by more convenient Hindu-Arabic numerals ; however this process was gradual , and the use of Roman numerals in some minor applications continues to this day .
Effective  नाभिकीय चार्ज  Diagram
The effective nuclear charge ( often symbolize as or Z*  ) is the जाल धनात्मक चार्ज  experienced by an electron in a multi-electron atom .
The term `` effective '' is used because the shielding effect of  negatively चार्ज electrons रोकता उच्चतर कक्षीय electrons  from experiencing the full nuclear charge by the repelling effect of inner-layer electrons .
The  प्रभावी नाभिकीय चार्ज अनुभवी  by the outer shell electron is also called the core charge .
It is  संभावित to determine the शक्ति  of the nuclear charge by looking at the oxidation number of the atom .
This is a list of episodes from the Discovery  चैनल श्रेणी , तूफ़ान chasers  .
A rural stretch of  i-5 , साथ दो गलियों in प्रत्येक दिशा अलग  by a large grassy median , and with cross-traffic limited to overpasses and underpasses
The Dwight D. Eisenhower National System of  अंतरराज्यीय और रक्षा राजमार्गों ( commonly ज्ञात as the अंतरराज्यीय  Highway System , Interstate Freeway System , Interstate System , or simply the Interstate ) is a network of freeways that forms a part of the National Highway System of the United States .
The system is named for President Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर , जो championed  its formation .
Construction was authorized by the Federal Aid Highway Act of 1956 , and  the असली portion थी समाप्त  35 years later .
The network has since been extended , and , it had a total length of , making it the world 's second longest after China  's . , परिचय one-quarter of सब गाडी मील चलित in the देश उपयोग the अंतरराज्यीय  system .
The cost of construction has been estimated at $ 425 billion ( in 2006 dollars ) , making it the `` largest public works  कार्यक्रम चूंकि the पिरामिडों  `` .
The  प्रणाली रै contributed in shaping  the United States into a world economic superpower and a highly industrialized nation .
.eu is the country code top-level  डोमेन ( cctld ) लिये the यूरोपीय  Union ( EU ) .
Launched on 7 December 2005 , the domain is available for  संगठनों in और निवासियों of  EU member states .
The TLD is administered by EURid , a consortium originally consisting of the national ccTLD registry operators of  बेल्जियम , स्वीडन , और इटली  , joined later by the national registry operator of the Czech Republic .
Trademark owners were able to submit registrations  through a सूर्योदय काल , in an प्रयत्न  to prevent cybersquatting .
Full registration  प्रारंभ on 7 अप्रैल  2006 .
Meister means master in German ( as in  निपुण craftsman  , or as an honorific title such as Meister Eckhart ) .
The word is akin to  maestro  .
In  खेल , meister is प्रयुक्त लिये the वर्तमान नेशनल , यूरोपीय  or world champion ( Deutscher Meister , *Europameister , Weltmeister ) .
Many modern day  जर्मनी पुलिस शक्तियां उपयोग  the title Meister .
During the  दूसरी संसार युद्ध , meister थी  the highest enlisted rank of the Ordnungspolizei .
Meister has been  उधार into अंग्रेज़ी कठबोली ,  where it is used in compound nouns .
A person referred to as “Meister” is one who has extensive theoretical knowledge and practical skills in his  व्यवसायिक , कारोबार  , or some other kind of work or activity .
For example , a “puzzle-meister” would be someone  अत्यधिक skilled at solving पहेलियाँ  .
ये neologisms sometimes have a व्यंग्यात्मक intent ( लिये उदाहरण ,  “stubble-meister” for someone with a short , neat beard or “crier-meister” for someone who often cries ) .
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers is an American live-action children 's television series about teenagers with super-powers  , आधारित on the 16th किश्त  of the Japanese Super Sentai franchise , Kyōryū Sentai Zyuranger .
Both the show and its related merchandise saw unbridled overnight  कामयाबी , बनने a स्टेपल of 1990s पॉप संस्कृति  in mere months .
Under the original name , `` Mighty  morphin शक्ति रेंजरों '' the श्रेणी भागा इससे  1993 to 1995 and spawned the feature film Mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie .
The second and third seasons of the show drew on footage and elements from the Super Sentai  श्रेणी gosei sentai dairanger और निंजा sentai  Kakuranger respectively , though the Zyuranger costumes were still used for the five main Rangers and several regular villains .
Only the mecha and the Kiba Ranger costume ( worn by the White Ranger ) were retained from  dairanger लिये the दूसरी ऋतु , जबकि तभी the  mecha from Kakuranger were featured in the third season .
However the Kakuranger costumes were later  प्रयुक्त लिये the शीर्षक  characters of the mini-series , Mighty Morphin Alien Rangers .
The series was produced by  mmpr प्रोडक्शन्स , वितरित  by Saban Entertainment , and aired on Fox Kids .
The  दिखाएँ 's merchandise थी  produced and distributed by Bandai Entertainment .
In 1996 , the series was rebranded as the  शक्ति रेंजरों मताधिकार ; renaming the श्रेणी प्रत्येक साल बाद , और using वेशभूषा  , props , and footage from subsequent Super Sentai series , as well as changing the cast and storyline .
While an overarching storyline would continue until Power  रेंजरों खोया आकाशगंगा , subsequent श्रेणी बाद mmpr हैं नहीं सिक्वेल  or spin-offs in the traditional sense .
In 2010 , a re-version of Mighty Morphin Power Rangers , with a  नई लोगो , कॉमिक book-referenced ग्राफिक्स , और अतिरिक्त वैकल्पिक  special effects , was broadcast on ABC Kids , and Bandai produced brand new toys to coincide with the series .
Edgar Allan Poe ( born Edgar Poe ; January 19 , 1809 – October 7 , 1849 ) was an American author ,  कवि , एडिटर और साहित्यिक आलोचक , माना  part of the American Romantic Movement .
Best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre , Poe was one  of the earliest अमरीकी practitioners of the  short story and is generally considered the inventor of the detective fiction genre .
He is further credited with contributing to the  उभरते विधा of विज्ञान  fiction .
He was the first  well-known अमरीकी लेखक to कोशिश to  earn a living through writing alone , resulting in a financially difficult life and career .
He was born as  एडगर पो in बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स ; he थी अनाथ यंग  when his mother died shortly after his father abandoned the family .
Poe was taken in by John and Frances Allan , of Richmond ,  वर्जिनिया , लकिन वे never  formally adopted him .
He attended the University  of वर्जिनिया लिये  one semester but left due to lack of money .
After enlisting in the Army and later failing as an officer 's cadet at  वेस्ट पाइंट , पो parted  ways with the Allans .
His publishing career began humbly , with  an बेनाम संग्रहण  of poems , Tamerlane and Other Poems ( 1827 ) , credited only to `` a Bostonian '' .
Poe switched  उसके फ़ोकस to गद्य और खर्च the अगला अनेक सालो working  for literary journals and periodicals , becoming known for his own style of literary criticism .
उसके कार्य मजबूर उसे  to move among several cities , including Baltimore , Philadelphia , and New York City .
In Baltimore in 1835 , he  शादीशुदा वर्जिनिया clemm , उसके 13-year-old  cousin .
In January 1845 Poe published his poem , ``  the रेवेन ``  , to instant success .
His wife died of tuberculosis two years  बाद इसके प्रकाशन  .
He began planning to produce his own journal , The Penn ( later  renamed the स्टाइलस ) , हालांकि he died पहले it could  be produced .
On October 7 , 1849 , at age 40 , Poe died in Baltimore ; the cause of his death is unknown and has been variously attributed to  दारू , दिमाग जमघट , हैजा , दवाएँ , दिल बीमारी , rabies , आत्महत्या , तपेदिक  , and other agents .
Poe and his works influenced literature in the United States and around the world , as well as in specialized fields  , ऐसे as cosmology और क्रिप्टोग्राफी  .
Poe and his work appear throughout popular culture in  साहित्य , म्यूज़िक , films  , and television .
A number of his homes are dedicated  संग्रहालय आज  .
The Mystery Writers of America present an annual award  ज्ञात as the एडगर पुरस्कार लिये विशिष्ट कार्य in  the mystery genre .
Lions are obligate  carnivores ; वे आवश्यकता up to सात  kilograms ( 15 lbs ) of meat per day .
A major component of  उनके आहार is the flesh  of large mammals , like this African buffalo .
A carnivore ( ) meaning 'meat eater ' ( Latin , caro meaning 'meat ' or 'flesh ' and vorare meaning 'to devour ' ) is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a  आहार consisting मुख्यतः or exclusively of एनिमल ऊतक  , whether through predation or scavenging .
Animals that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient requirements are considered carnivores while  those कि भी consume non-animal खाना हैं माना  carnivores .
Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food , and apart  इससे the अधिक सामान्य परिभाषा  , there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore .
a carnivore कि sits  at the top of the foodchain is an apex predator .
Plants that capture and digest insects are  पुकारा मांसाहारी  plants .
Similarly , fungi that capture microscopic animals are often  पुकारा मांसाहारी fungi  .
The FIFA World Cup , often  बस the संसार कप , is an अंतरराष्ट्रीय संघ फ़ुटबॉल प्रतियोगिता लडे by the वरिष्ठ मेन 's नेशनल  teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship has been awarded every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in 1942 and 1946 when  it थी नहीं आयोजित क्युकी  of the Second World War .
The current  champions हैं स्पेन ,  who won the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues  भीतर the मेजबान स्वदेश ( s ) over a काल of  about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the  preceding तीन सालो , is प्रयुक्त to determine  which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments have been won by eight  अलग नेशनल  teams .
Brazil have won five times , and they are the only team to  have निभाई in प्रत्येक टूर्नामेंट  .
The other World Cup  विजेता हैं इटली , साथ चार शीर्षक  ; Germany , with three titles ; Argentina and inaugural winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed sporting event ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the  2006 फीफा संसार  Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will  be hosted by ब्राज़ील in 2014 , रूस  in 2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
Heroes is an American science fiction television drama series created by Tim Kring that appeared  on एनबीसी लिये चार सीज़न  from September 25 , 2006 through February 8 , 2010 .
The  श्रेणी tells the कहानियां of ordinary लोगों जो discover superhuman  abilities , and how these abilities take effect in the characters ' lives .
The series emulates the aesthetic style and storytelling of American comic books , using multi-episode  स्टोरी arcs कि निर्माण upon  a larger , more encompassing arc .
the श्रेणी थी उत्पादित by tailwind  Productions in association with Universal Media Studios .
It was filmed primarily in  लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Four complete seasons aired , ending on February  8 , 2010  .
The critically acclaimed first season had a run of 23 episodes and garnered an average of 14.3 million  दर्शक in the संयुक्त राज्य , receiving the  highest rating for an NBC drama premiere in five years .
The second season of Heroes attracted an average of 13.1 million viewers in the U.S. , and  चिह्नित एनबीसी 's एकमात्र श्रेणी  among the top 20 ranked programs in total viewership for the 2007–2008 season .
Heroes has earned a number of awards and nominations , including Primetime Emmy Awards , Golden Globes , People 's  चुनाव पुरस्कार और अंग्रेजों  Academy Television Awards .
An online extension of the series , Heroes 360 Experience , later rebranded as Heroes Evolutions ,  थी निर्मित to explore the नायक ब्रह्मांड  and provides insight into the show 's mythology .
Other official Heroes media include magazines , action figures , tie-in and interactive websites , a  मोबाईल खेल , a अनोखा ,  clothing and other merchandise .
In the fall of 2008 , NBC Digital Entertainment released a series of online content for the  गर्मियाँ , सहित अधिक असली वेब सामग्री  , wireless iTV interactivity , graphic novels available for mobile viewing and webisodes .
NBC announced Heroes cancellation  on  May 14 , 2010 .
Afterward , the network considered making a television special  इवेंट to conclude the श्रेणी ; however ,  on September 9 , 2010 , NBC announced the decision to stop any further development of the Heroes franchise .
Tim Kring then suggested that the broad premise of Heroes storylines allowed for the franchise to return for fans , but he did not specify when or in what media  स्वरूप .
On April  17 , 2013 , tv लकीर reported कि एमएसएन  was in talks to revive the series with a new cast .
जॉन pierpont  `` J. P . ''
Morgan ( April 17 , 1837 – March  31 , 1913 ) थी an अमरीकी फाइनेंसर  , banker , philanthropist and art collector who dominated corporate finance and industrial consolidation during his time .
In 1892 Morgan arranged the merger of Edison General Electric and Thomson-Houston  इलेक्ट्रिक कम्पनी to रूप  General Electric .
After financing the creation of the Federal Steel Company , he merged in 1901 with the Carnegie Steel Company and several other steel and  आयरन व्यवसायों , सहित संचित स्टील और तार कम्पनी स्वामित्व by विलियम  Edenborn , to form the United States Steel Corporation .
Morgan died in Rome , Italy , in his sleep in 1913 at the age of 75 , leaving his fortune and  कारोबार to उसके बेटे , जॉन pierpont `` जोकर '' मॉर्गन  , Jr. , and bequeathing his mansion and large book collections to The Morgan Library & Museum in New York .
At the height of Morgan 's career during the early 1900s , he and his partners had financial investments in many large corporations  और यहूद अभियुक्त by आलोचकों of controlling  the nation 's high finance .
He directed the  बैंकिंग गठबन्धन  that stopped the Panic of 1907 .
He was the leading financier of the Progressive Era , and his  समर्पण to दक्षता और modernization  helped transform American business .
This is a  सूची of एपीसोड  of the television series .
The episodes were  निर्देशित by शिगेरू ueda और  produced by the Yggdrasil Executive Committee which included Xebec and Genco .
The plot of the episodes is set in Tokyo and revolves around Rin  asōgi , an अमर निजी अन्वेषक , as वो explores the रहस्य of आधुनिक और near-future  world and the supernatural events that surround the fictional society of immortals like herself .
There are large time gaps in the internal  कालक्रम between the  first five episodes , ranging from one to thirty years .
The six episodes were broadcast monthly on AT-X channel  in जापानी , between  February 3 and July 6 , 2008 .
Each  एपीसोड is 45 मिनट्स  long .
Two pieces of theme music are used  लिये the एपीसोड : the खोलने थीम `` alsatia ''  and the ending theme `` Cause Disarray '' .
Both were composed and performed by  the जापानी मेटल बैंड  Galneryus .
The series was produced to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the AT-X  संजाल it originally  aired on .
Aerial photo of  fletc , जहाँ us डिजिटल  forensics standards were developed in the 1980s and '90s
Digital forensics ( sometimes known as digital forensic science ) is a branch of forensic science encompassing the recovery and investigation of material  मिला in डिजिटल डिवाइस ,  often in relation to computer crime .
The term digital  forensics थी originally प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये  computer forensics but has expanded to cover investigation of all devices capable of storing digital data .
With roots in the personal computing revolution of the late 1970s and early '80s , the discipline evolved in a haphazard manner during the  1990s , और it थी नहीं जबतक the जल्दी 21st सदी कि नेशनल नीतियों उभरा  .
Digital forensics  investigations have a  variety of applications .
the सबसे  common is to support or refute a hypothesis before criminal or civil ( as part of the electronic discovery process ) courts .
Forensics may also feature in the private sector ; such as during internal corporate investigations or intrusion investigation ( a specialist probe into the  प्रकृति और extent of an अनधिकृत  network intrusion ) .
The technical aspect of an investigation is divided into several sub-branches , relating to the type of digital devices involved ; computer forensics , network forensics , forensic data analysis and mobile  यंत्र forensics  .
The typical forensic process encompasses the seizure , forensic imaging ( acquisition ) and analysis of  डिजिटल मीडिया और the उत्पादन of a रपट  into collected evidence .
As well as identifying direct evidence of a crime , digital forensics  can be प्रयुक्त to विशेषता प्रमाण to विशिष्ट संदिग्धों ,  confirm alibis or statements , determine intent , identify sources ( for example , in copyright cases ) , or authenticate documents .
Investigations are much  broader in पैमाना than अन्य क्षेत्रों of forensic विश्लेषण ( जहाँ the usual  aim is to provide answers to a series of simpler questions ) often involving complex time-lines or hypotheses .
A comparison  of the chromaticities  enclosed by some color spaces .
A color model is an abstract  गणितीय मॉडल describing the  way colors can be represented as tuples of numbers , typically as three or four values or color components ( e.g . RGB and CMYK are color models ) .
However , a color model with no associated mapping function to an absolute color space is a more or less  मनमानी रंग प्रणाली साथ  no connection to any globally understood system of color interpretation .
Adding a certain  मानचित्रण फलन between the रंग मॉडल  and a certain reference color space results in a definite `` footprint '' within the reference color space .
This `` footprint  '' is ज्ञात as a gamut  , and , in combination with the color model , defines a new color space .
For  उदाहरण , adobe आरजीबी और srgb  are two different absolute color spaces , both based on the RGB model .
In the most generic sense of the definition above  , रंग स्पेसेस can be पारिभाषित  without the use of a color model .
These spaces ,  ऐसे as pantone  , are in effect a given set of names or numbers which are defined by the existence of a corresponding set of physical color swatches .
This article focuses on  the  mathematical model concept .
Labor  दिन is an अमरीकी संघीय अवकाश observed on the  first Monday in September , that celebrates the economic and social contributions of workers .
Life insurance is a contract between an insured ( insurance policy holder ) and an insurer , where the insurer  वादे to अदा a designated लाभार्थी a योग of  money ( the `` benefits '' ) upon the death of the insured person .
Depending on the contract , other events such as terminal illness or  नाजुक बीमारी may भी  trigger payment .
The policy  होल्डर typically  pays a premium , either regularly or as a lump sum .
Other expenses ( such as  अंत्येष्टि खर्च ) हैं भी  sometimes included in the benefits .
Life policies are legal contracts  और the शर्तें of the अनुबंध  describe the limitations of the insured events .
Specific exclusions are often written into the contract to limit the  देयता of the insurer ; आम उदाहरण हैं दावा relating to आत्महत्या , धोखाधड़ी  , war , riot and civil commotion .
Life-based contracts tend to fall into two  प्रमुख categories:
Protection policies –  designed to provide a लाभ in the इवेंट of निर्दिष्ट  event , typically a lump sum payment .
A  आम रूप of  this design is term insurance .
Investment policies – where the main objective is  to सुकर the विकास  of capital by regular or single premiums .
Common forms ( in the US ) are whole  जीवन , सार्वभौमिक जीवन  and variable life policies .
{ {  infobox  Holiday
Chinese  नई साल
9  – 12 फ़रवरी  ( Vietnam )
Mitzi  gaynor donahue ( born may 2 , 1962 in yorba लिंडा ,  Orange County , California ) is an American actress , also credited and more popularly known as Mitzi Kapture .
Kapture began her career in films ,  सबसे of जिससे यहूद  not huge commercial successes .
She went on to make a few television guest appearances ( MacGyver , 1st & Ten , and as a contestant on The $ 100,000 Pyramid ) before she gained international exposure with her first  प्रमुख टेलीविज़न भूमिका as सार्जेंट  Rita Lee Lance in the television series Silk Stalkings .
kapture  's role as Rita , the other half of the two `` Sams '' for almost 5 years , cemented her popularity .
Paired with Rob Estes who played Sergeant Chris  lorenzo , kapture gained वैश्विक  recognition along with her costar since the show was broadcast in several countries .
Sergeant Lance eventually became Lieutenant Lance by the time Kapture left the  श्रेणी  in 1995 to have her first child Madison .
During her time with the series , Kapture  briefly सत in the निदेशक 's कुर्सी ,  for two episodes .
She was interviewed for the Silk Stalkings  ऋतु 1 dvd जिससे थी वितरित by लंगर खाड़ी  Entertainment and released in September 2004 .
After a short hiatus from the screen following her exit from Silk  stalkings , kapture लौटे in 1997  to the small screen and USA Network .
She played lead roles in two USA Pictures Originals telemovies , Perfect Crime ( based on a true story , also called Hide and Seek : The Joanne Jensen Story ) , which also   starred Jasmine Guy and His Bodyguard .
वो बाद स्ट्रक्चर in a few अन्य  independent film projects and theatre productions and had several television guest appearances .
Kapture also had a recurring role  on बेवाच as  Alexis Ryker .
She played Anita Hodges on The Young  और the बेचैन इससे  2002 through 2004 , where she was credited as Mitzi Kapture Donahue , and starred in the made-for-TV movie Night of Terror which premiered March 26 , 2006 on Lifetime Network .
Her latest is a  supporting भूमिका in  God 's Ears , released in 2007 .
Kapture is the official  हस्ती प्रवक्ता लिये the xeroderma  Pigmentosum Society .
The Xbox 360 is the second  वीडियो खेल कंसोल विकसित by और  produced for Microsoft and the successor to the Xbox .
The Xbox 360  competes साथ सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन  3 and Nintendo 's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles .
As of  सितंबर 30 , 2012 , 70 लाख  Xbox 360 consoles have been sold worldwide .
The Xbox  360 थी officially अनावरण on एमटीवी on may 12 , 2005 , साथ  detailed launch and game information divulged later that month at the Electronic Entertainment Expo ( E3 ) .
The console sold out completely upon release  in सब regions  except in Japan .
Several major  सुविधाएँ of the एक्सबॉक्स 360 हैं इसके एकीकृत एक्सबॉक्स सजीव  service that allows players to compete online ; download arcade games , game demos , trailers , TV shows , music and movies ; and its Windows Media Center multimedia capabilities .
The Xbox Live also offers access to various ( often region-specific )  third-party  media streaming applications .
At their E3 presentation on June 14 ,  2010 , microsoft  announced a redesigned Xbox 360 that would ship on the same day .
The redesigned console is  slimmer than the पिछला एक्सबॉक्स 360 मॉडल और सुविधाएँ  integrated 802.11 b/g/n Wi-Fi , TOSLINK S/PDIF optical audio output , five USB 2.0 ports ( compared to the three from older versions ) and a special AUX port .
Older models of the  एक्सबॉक्स 360 have  since been discontinued .
The  पहला नई कंसोल to be released  features a 250 GB hard drive , while a later , less expensive SKU features 4 GB internal storage .
Backpack may also refer to a  2001 अनोखा  by Emily Barr
a  modern backpack
Swiss  फौज backpack  ca . 1960
Integrated bearer  फ़्रेम .
A backpack ( also called rucksack , knapsack , packsack , pack ) is , in its simplest form , a  cloth बोरी carried on एक 's वापस और secured साथ दो straps  that go over the shoulders , but there can be exceptions .
Lightweight types of backpacks are sometimes worn on  तभी एक कंधे डोरी  .
Backpacks are often preferred to handbags for carrying heavy loads or carrying any sort  of उपकरण , क्युकी of the सीमित क्षमता  to carry heavy weights for long periods of time in the hands .
Large  backpacks , प्रयुक्त to carry loads over 10 kg ( 22 पाउंड ) , प्रायः offload the largest  part ( up to about 90 % ) of their weight onto padded hip belts , leaving the shoulder straps mainly for stabilising the load .
This improves  the संभावित to carry भारी loads , as the कूल्हों हैं stronger  than the shoulders , and also increases agility and balance , since the load rides nearer the wearer 's own center of mass .
In ancient times , the  backpack थी प्रयुक्त as a अर्थात् to carry the शिकारी  's larger game and other types of prey and as a way of easier transport for other materials .
In the cases of larger hunts , the hunters would dismember their prey and  वितरित the टुकड़े of the एनिमल around , प्रत्येक एक पैकिंग  the meat into many wrappings and then into bags which they placed on to their backs .
The bag itself was made up of different animal hide and skin ( depending on what sorts of animals were in the area ) and sewn together by the intestines of  कहा पशु , जिससे यहूद woven साथ tightly to मेक a sturdy thread-like  material .
Mexico ( ; ; ) , officially the  संयुक्त मैक्सिकन  States ( ) , is a federal constitutional republic in North America .
It is bordered on the north by the United States ; on the south and west by the Pacific Ocean ; on the southeast by Guatemala , Belize , and the Caribbean Sea ; and  on the ईस्ट by the गल्फ of मैक्सिको  .
Covering almost two million square kilometres ( over  760,000 sq  mi ) , Mexico is the fifth largest country in the Americas by total area and the 13th largest independent nation in the world .
With an estimated population of over 113 million , it is the  संसार 's eleventh सबसे  populous country and the most populous Spanish-speaking country .
Mexico is a   federation comprising thirty-one states and a Federal District , the capital city .
In pre-Columbian Mexico many cultures matured into advanced civilizations such as the Olmec , the Toltec , the Teotihuacan ,  the zapotec , the माया और the एज़टेक पहले पहला सम्पर्क साथ europeans  .
In 1521 ,  स्पेन conquered और colonized the territory इससे  its base in México-Tenochtitlan , which was administered as the Viceroyalty of New Spain .
This territory would eventually  become मैक्सिको following मान्यता of  the colony 's independence in 1821 .
The post-independence period was characterized by  आर्थिक अस्थिरता , the mexican-american  War and territorial cession to the United States , a civil war , two empires and a domestic dictatorship .
The latter led to the  मैक्सिकन क्रान्ति in 1910 , जिससे culminated साथ the promulgation  of the 1917 Constitution and the emergence of the country 's current political system .
Elections held in  जुलाई 2000 चिह्नित  the first time that an opposition party won the presidency from the Institutional Revolutionary Party .
Since 2006 the country has been in the midst of a  ड्रग युद्ध जिससे रै caused 60,000 मौतों  .
मैक्सिको रै एक of the संसार  's largest economies , and is considered both a regional power and middle power .
In addition , Mexico was the first Latin American  सदस्य of the संगठन लिये आर्थिक co-operation और विकास  OECD ( since 1994 ) , and considered an upper-middle income country by the World Bank .
मैक्सिको is माना a newly  industrialized country and an emerging power .
It has the  fourteenth largest नाममात्र जीडीपी और  the eleventh largest GDP by purchasing power parity .
The economy is strongly linked to those of its North American  फ़्री व्यापार अनुबंध  ( NAFTA ) partners , especially the United States of America .
Mexico ranks sixth in the world and first in the Americas by  क्रमांक of युनेस्को संसार विरासत  Sites with 31 , and in 2007 was the tenth most visited country in the world with 21.4 million international arrivals per year .
Babe Ruth holds the MLB  करियर slugging प्रतिशत  record ( .690 ) .
In baseball statistics ,  slugging प्रतिशत  ( abbreviated SLG ) is a popular measure of the power of a hitter .
It is  गणना as कुल  bases divided by at bats :
where AB is the number of at-bats for a given player , and 1B ,  2b , 3b , और hr हैं the क्रमांक of  singles , doubles , triples , and home runs , respectively .
Walks are specifically excluded  इससे इस गणना  .
For example , in 1920 , Babe Ruth played his  पहला ऋतु लिये  the New York Yankees .
In 458 at bats , Ruth had 172 hits , comprising 73 singles , 36 doubles , 9 triples ,  और 54 घर रनों , जिससे  brings the total base count to ( 73 × 1 ) + ( 36 × 2 ) + ( 9 × 3 ) + ( 54 × 4 ) = 388 .
उसके कुल क्रमांक of bases (  388 ) divided by his total at-bats ( 458 ) is .847 , his slugging percentage for the season .
The next year he slugged .846 , and these records went unbroken until 2001 , when Barry Bonds achieved 411 bases in 476 at-bats , bringing  उसके slugging प्रतिशत to .863 ,  unmatched since .
is a  role-playing वीडियो खेल विकसित  and published by Square ( now Square Enix ) for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995 .
Chrono Trigger 's development team included three designers that Square dubbed the `` Dream Team '' : Hironobu  sakaguchi , the निर्माता of वर्गाकार 's फाइनल काल्पनिक श्रेणी ; yuji horii , a freelance पंक्तियां और निर्माता of एनिक्स 's लोकप्रिय  Dragon Quest series ; and Akira Toriyama , a freelance manga artist famed for his work with Dragon Quest and Dragon Ball .
Kazuhiko Aoki produced the game , Masato Kato wrote most of the plot , while composer Yasunori Mitsuda scored most of the game before  गिरना बीमार और deferring बाकी ट्रैक्स to फाइनल काल्पनिक  composer Nobuo Uematsu .
The  खेल 's स्टोरी फ़ॉलो a  group of adventurers who travel through time to prevent a global catastrophe .
Square re-released a ported version by Tose in  जापानी लिये सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन in 1999 , बाद repackaged साथ a  Final Fantasy IV port as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market .
A slightly enhanced Chrono Trigger was released for the Nintendo DS on November 25 , 2008 , in North America and Japan , and went on sale in Australia on February 3 , 2009 and in Europe on  फ़रवरी 6 , 2009  .
The game  थी never released in pal territories  before the Nintendo DS version .
Chrono Trigger was  a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी  upon release and is considered today to be one of the greatest video games of all time .
Nintendo Power magazine described aspects of Chrono Trigger as revolutionary , including its  अनेक  endings , plot-related sidequests focusing on character development , unique battle system , and detailed graphics .
Chrono Trigger was the third best-selling game of 1995 , and the game 's SNES and PlayStation iterations have  shipped 2.65  million copies as of March 2003 .
The version for the  निन्टेंडो ds बेची 790,000  copies as of March 2009 .
Chrono Trigger was also ported to mobile phones , Virtual Console , the PlayStation Network ( only in the USA ) , iOS devices ,  और एंड्रॉइड डिवाइस  .
बकरी चीज
Goat cheese , or chèvre ( from the French word for  बकरी ) , is चीज बना आउट  of the milk of goats .
अतिताप is elevated देह तापमान  due to failed thermoregulation that occurs when a body produces or absorbs more heat than it dissipates .
Extreme temperature elevation then  becomes a चिकित्सा आपात requiring  immediate treatment to prevent disability or death .
The most  आम कल्याणकारी शामिल ऊष्मा  stroke and adverse reactions to drugs .
The former is an acute temperature elevation caused by exposure to excessive heat , or combination of heat and  आर्द्रता , कि overwhelms the heat-regulating  mechanisms .
The latter is a relatively rare side effect of many  दवाएँ , विशेषकर those कि affect  the central nervous system .
Malignant  अतिताप  is a rare complication of some types of general anesthesia .
Hyperthermia can also be deliberately induced using drugs or medical devices and may be used in the treatment of some kinds of cancer and other  शर्तें , सबसे commonly in संयोजन साथ radiotherapy  .
Hyperthermia differs from  ज्वर in कि the देह 's तापमान  set point remains unchanged .
The opposite is  hypothermia , जिससे occurs  when the temperature drops below that required to maintain normal metabolism .
Belize , is a country located on the  northeastern coast of सेंट्रल  America .
It is  the तभी देश in the  area where English is the official language , although Kriol and Spanish are more commonly spoken .
Belize is bordered on the north by Mexico , to the south and west by  ग्वाटेमाला और to  the east by the Caribbean Sea .
Its mainland is  परिचय long और चौड़ी  .
With of land and a population of only 312,698 inhabitants ( 2010 census ) , Belize  possesses the न्यूनतम जनसांख्यिकी  density in Central America .
The country 's  जनसांख्यिकी  growth rate of 3.15 % ( 2012 est . ) is the second highest in the region and one of the highest in the western hemisphere .
Belize 's abundance of terrestrial and marine species , and  इसके विविधता of ecosystems दे it a कुंजी प्लेस भीतर  the globally significant Mesoamerican Biological Corridor .
Belize has a  विविध समाज , comprising  many cultures and languages .
It is the only  स्वदेश in the प्रदेश साथ a अंग्रेजों औपनिवेशिक विरासत , लकिन  as a part of the Western Caribbean Zone , it also shares a common heritage with the fellow Anglophone Caribbean countries .
In general ,  बेलीज़ is माना  to be a Central American and Caribbean nation with strong ties to both the Caribbean and Latin America .
Belize is a member of the Caribbean Community (  caricom ) , the जातियाँ of लैटिन अमरीकी  and Caribbean States ( CELAC ) , and Central American Integration System ( SICA ) .
Belize is  ज्ञात लिये इसके सितंबर जश्न  , and is the birthplace of chewing gum and Punta Rock .
The `` Betsy Ross ''  ध्वज
A `` Betsy Ross '' flag flying  बाहर सैन फ्रांसिस्को  City Hall
The Betsy Ross flag is an early design of the flag of the  संयुक्त राज्य , popularly attributed to बेट्सी रॉस , using the आम motifs  of alternating red-and-white striped field with five-pointed stars in a blue canton .
The flag was  designed दौरान the अमरीकी  Revolution and features 13 stars to represent the original 13 colonies .
The  distinctive विशेषता of the रॉस  flag is the arrangement of the stars in a circle .
Although the Betsy Ross story is accepted by most Americans , some flag historians and revisionists do not accept the  बेट्सी रॉस डिज़ाइन  as the first American flag .
According to the traditional account , the original flag was made in June 1776 ,  जब a छोटी committee—including जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , रॉबर्ट मॉरिस और सापेक्ष  George Ross —visited Betsy and discussed the need for a new American flag .
Betsy  स्वीकृत the जॉब to manufacture the  flag , altering the committee 's design by replacing the six-pointed stars with five-pointed stars .
While the Betsy Ross legend is questionable , the flag design is known to have been in use by 1777 ; Alfred B . Street  वर्णित it at the आत्मसमर्पण of सामान्य burgoyne और समझा the वृत्त of सितारों  to represent equality among the American states .
It is one of the oldest versions of U.S. flags known to exist ; while it is not the oldest surviving flag artifact in  cloth रूप , इसके likeness appears on पुरानी  physical relics , namely , the contemporary battlefield paintings by John Trumbull and Charles Willson Peale .
They depict the circular star arrangement being flown  इससे जलयान masts और अनेक अन्य स्थान  , and thus provide the first known historical documentation of the flag 's appearance .
The seal of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs uses  the बेट्सी रॉस ध्वज to represent सेवा  to all veterans from the American Revolution to the present day .
The Betsy  रॉस डिज़ाइन of 13-star us ध्वज  has been featured in many popular artworks ( sometimes inaccurately , as in Washington Crossing the Delaware ) and films , such as the 1960 version of Pollyanna .
The flag continues to be one of the most  लोकप्रिय  symbols of the American Revolution .
A purr is a sound made by all  प्रजाति of felids और is  a part of cat communication .
It  varies between बिल्लियों ( लिये उदाहरण by loudness  and tone ) , and from species to species , but can be characterized as a tonal buzzing .
The term `` purring '' has been used liberally in literature  , और it रै महरूम claimed कि viverrids  ( civet , mongoose , genet ) , bears , badgers , hyaenas ( et cetera ) purr .
अन्य पशु  that have been said to purr are rabbits , squirrels , guinea pigs , tapirs , ring-tailed lemurs , elephants , raccoons and gorillas while eating .
However , using a strict definition of purring that continuous sound production must alternate between pulmonic egressive and ingressive airstream ( and usually go on for minutes ) , Peters ( 2002 ) ,  in an विस्तृत पुनर्विलोकन of the वैज्ञानिक साहित्य ,  reached the conclusion that until then only ‘purring cats’ ( Felidae ) and two species of genets , Genetta tigrina , and most likely also Genetta genetta , had been documented to purr .
The platypus (  ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic  to eastern Australia , including Tasmania .
Together with the four species of echidna , it is one of the  पाँच extant प्रजाति of  monotremes , the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth .
It is the sole living representative of its family (  ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus  ) , though a number of related species have been found in the fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed , otter -footed mammal baffled  यूरोपीय naturalists जब वे पहला encountered  it , with some considering it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of the few venomous mammals , the  पुरूष platypus having a spur on the हिन्द पैर  that delivers a venom capable of causing severe pain to humans .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and  iconic प्रतीक of ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; it रै appeared as a शुभंकर at नेशनल कार्यक्रम  and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
The platypus is the animal emblem of the  राज्य of नई दक्षिण वेल्स  .
Until the early 20th century , it was hunted for its fur , but it is now  सुरक्षित throughout इसके  range .
Although captive breeding programmes have had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of  प्रदूषण , it is नहीं अंतर्गत कोई तात्कालिक  threat .
St. Elizabeth is a village  in  Miller County , Missouri , United States .
The population was  336 at  the 2010 census .
Wilton is a census-designated place ( CDP )  in sacramento  County , California , United States .
It is part of the Sacramento –  arden-arcade – roseville महानगर सांख्यिकीय  Area .
The population was 5,363 at the  2010 जनसांख्यिकी , up इससे 4,551 at the  2000 census .
In human-computer interaction , cut and paste and copy and paste are related commands that offer a user-interface interaction technique for transferring text , data , files or objects from a source  to a गंतव्य  .
सबसे ubiquitously  , users require the ability to cut and paste sections of plain text .
The cut command removes the selected data from its original position , while the copy command  creates a नकल ; in दोनो मामले  the selected data is placed in a clipboard .
The data in the clipboard is  बाद inserted in the स्थिति जहाँ the  paste command is issued .
The command names are an interface metaphor  आधारित on the शारीरिक कार्यविधि प्रयुक्त in पाण्डुलिपि  editing to create a page layout .
This interaction technique has close associations with related techniques in  आलेखीय उपयोक्ता अंतरफलक कि उपयोग इंगित डिवाइस  such as a computer mouse ( by drag and drop , for example ) .
Economic order quantity is the order quantity that minimizes  कुल inventory पकड़कर लागत और ordering  costs .
It is one  of the oldest  classical production scheduling models .
The framework used to determine this  अनुक्रम मात्रा is भी  known as Barabas EOQ Model or Barabas Formula .
The model was developed by Ford W. Harris in 1913 , but R. H. Wilson , a  सलाहकार जो लागू it extensively , is दिए  credit for his in-depth analysis .
Stephen `` Stevie ''  रे vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3 , 1954 –  August 27 , 1990 ) was an American guitarist , singer-songwriter , and record producer .
प्रायः referred  to by his initials SRV , Vaughan is best known as a founding member and leader of Double Trouble .
साथ साथ वादक  Chris Layton and bassist Tommy Shannon , they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s .
With a career spanning seven years , Vaughan and Double Trouble consistently sold  आउट कॉन्सर्ट जबकि  their albums frequently went gold .
He was born and raised in Dallas , Texas , and for a short  काल of समय जिया in ग्राहम  , Texas .
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan , Vaughan started  playing  the guitar at age seven and formed several bands that occasionally performed in local nightclubs .
At age 17 , he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further pursue his musical  करियर , joining समूह  such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed  ट्रिपल threat revue , a बैंड कि आखिरकार  evolved into Double Trouble and regularly performed around Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at the Montreux  जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड  , catching the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie asked Vaughan to play on his upcoming studio album Let 's  नृत्य , जबकि browne offered the  band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album .
In March 1983 ,  vaughan और दोगुना ट्रबल यहूद हस्ताक्षरित to एपिक रिकॉर्ड by दिग्गज  record producer John Hammond Sr. and released their debut album , Texas Flood in June of that year .
After successful touring , the group released the albums , Could n't Stand the  मौसम ( 1984 ) और आत्मा to आत्मा  ( 1985 ) , the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
हालांकि उसके करियर था progressed सफलतापूर्वक  , Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta , Georgia to give up a cocaine and alcohol habit and returned to touring with the band .
In June 1989 , In Step  थी released और  earned them a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues Performance .
On August 27 , 1990 , Vaughan was killed  in a हेलीकाप्टर  crash following a performance in East Troy , Wisconsin .
Vaughan 's  uniquely  eclectic yet intense style was derived from a variety of musical genres .
He was influenced by blues musicians including  अल्बर्ट किंग , फ्रेडी किंग , ओटिस  Rush , and Muddy Waters , and rock guitarists such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar playing reflected the classic  ब्लूज़ और  pentatonic scales .
He has received wide critical recognition for his  गिटार playing , रैंकिंग at # 6 on रोलिंग  Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2000 and a memorial statue was  erected in ऑस्टिन 's ऑडिटोरियम  Shores park .
Stevie Ray Vaughan is widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to  आइये इससे the  state of Texas .
The Las Vegas  स्ट्रिप संसार of  Coca-Cola museum in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants , and vending machines  in प्रत्येक देश मगर  Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta ,  जॉर्जिया , और is प्रायः referred  to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
originally intended as a पेटेंट आयुर्विज्ञान जब it थी invented in the लेट 19th  century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs Candler , whose marketing tactics led Coke to its dominance of the world soft-drink market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold to licensed Coca-Cola  bottlers throughout the  world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company , produce finished product in cans  और बोतलों इससे the concentrate in संयोजन  with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell ,  वितरित और merchandise coca-cola to  retail stores and vending machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is the largest single  coca-cola bottler in उत्तर अमेरिका और  western Europe .
the coca-cola कम्पनी भी बिकता concentrate  for soda fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion ,  introduced अन्य कोला पेय अंतर्गत the  Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola ,  आहार कोक caffeine-free , coca-cola  Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best  वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011 ,  Coca-Cola was the world 's most valuable brand .
बैरी लुई larkin ( born अप्रैल 28 , 1964 )  is a retired Major League Baseball player .
Larkin played shortstop for the  सिनसिनाटी लाल इससे 1986 to  2004 and was one of the pivotal players on the 1990 Reds ' World Series championship team .
Larkin was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame in  जनवरी 2012 और थी inducted on जुलाई  22 .
Larkin is  माना एक of the शीर्ष खिलाड़ी  of his era , winning nine Silver Slugger awards and three Gold Glove awards .
He was selected to the Major League All-Star Game twelve times , and was elected the 1995 National  लीग सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी  .
Brasília ( ) is the federal capital of Brazil and the seat of  सरकारी of the संघीय  District .
Administratively , the city is located in  the संघीय ज़िला जिससे is in the  Central-West Region .
Physically ,  it is स्तिथ  in the Brazilian Highlands .
It has a population of about 2,562,963 ( 3,716,996 in the metropolitan area ) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate , making  it the चौथी largest  city in Brazil .
However ,  as a महानगर क्षेत्रफल  , it ranks lower at sixth in population .
Brasília is the largest city in the world that  किया नहीं मौजूद at the शुरूआत  of the 20th century .
Brasília has the fifth largest GDP among Latin American cities  और the तीसरा in ब्राज़ील  .
At around R $ 62,000 Brazilian reais ( equal  to लगभग $ 30,900  US dollars or €23,000 euros ) , the city 's per capita income is the highest among Brazil 's largest cities .
As  the नेशनल पूंजी  , Brasília is the seat of all three branches of the federal government of Brazil .
The city also hosts the headquarters of many  ब्राज़ीलियाई  companies .
Planning policies such as the location of residential buildings around expansive urban  क्षेत्रों , as खूब as भवन the नगर around विशाल avenues और dividing it into सेक्टर , have  sparked a debate and reflection on life in big cities in the 20th century .
The city 's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors for specified activities , such as the Hotel Sector ,  the बैंकिंग सेक्टर or the दूतावास  Sector .
Brasília hosts 124 foreign  embassies .
The city was planned and developed in 1956  साथ lúcio कोस्टा as the प्रिंसिपल शहरी प्लानर ,  Oscar Niemeyer as the principal architect and Roberto Burle Marx as the landscape designer .
Brasilia is in the  युनेस्को 's संसार hertitage  List due to its architecture .
On April 22 , 1960 , it  formally became ब्राज़ील  's national capital .
Viewed from above , the  प्रमुख  portion of the city resembles an airplane or a butterfly .
The city is  commonly referred to  as Capital Federal , or simply BSB .
Residents of Brasília  are  known as brasilienses or candangos ( the latter referring to those not born in the city but who migrated there after it was established ) .
In local usage , the word `` Brasília '' usually refers only to the First Administrative Region ( RA  i ) भीतर the संघीय ज़िला ( distrito संघीय  ) , where the most important government buildings are located .
Brasília has a unique status in Brazil , as it is an administrative division rather than a legal  नगरपालिका  like nearly all cities in Brazil .
Nationally , the term is almost  सदा प्रयुक्त synonymously साथ the संघीय ज़िला , जिससे  constitutes an indivisible Federative Unit , analogous to a state .
Several `` satellite cities '' exist which are also part of  the संघीय  District .
Brasília International Airport is the main airport in Brasília , connecting the  पूंजी to सब प्रमुख ब्राज़ीलियाई  cities and many international destinations .
It is  the तीसरा सबसे महत्वपूर्ण  airport in Brazil , in terms of passengers and aircraft movements .
Personifications of Germany , France , Russia , Austria-Hungary , and the United Kingdom attempting to keep the lid on the simmering cauldron of  imperialist और राष्ट्रवादी तनाव in the balkans to prevent a  general European war .
They were  कामयाब in 1912 और 1913  but did not succeed in in 1914 .
The causes of World War I , which began in central Europe in late July 1914 and finished in 1918 ,  शामिल अनेक कारकों , ऐसे as the विरोध और दुश्मनी of the  four decades leading up to the war .
सैन्यवाद , alliances , साम्राज्यवाद  , and nationalism played major roles in the conflict as well .
The immediate origins of the war , however , lay in the decisions taken by statesmen and generals during the Crisis of 1914 , casus belli for which was  the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड ( the archduke of ऑस्ट्रिया हंगेरियाई ) और उसके बीवी सोफी  by Gavrilo Princip , an irredentist Serb .
The crisis came after a long and  मुश्किल श्रेणी of राजनयिक clashes between the ग्रेट शक्तियां  ( Italy , France , Germany , the British Empire , the Austria-Hungarian Empire and Russia ) over European and colonial issues in the decade before 1914 that had left tensions high .
In turn these diplomatic clashes can  be traced to परिवर्तन  in the balance of power in Europe since 1867 .
The more immediate cause for the war was  तनाव over territory  in the Balkans .
Austria-Hungary competed with Serbia and Russia for territory and influence in the region and they pulled the rest of the Great Powers into  the विरोध through उनके विभिन्न alliances और  treaties .
Although the chain of events unleashed by the assassination triggered the war , the war 's origins go deeper , involving national politics , cultures , economics , and a complex  वेब of alliances और counterbalances कि था विकसित between  the various European powers since 1870 .
Some of the most important long term or structural causes are : the growth of nationalism across Europe , unresolved territorial disputes , an intricate system of alliances , the perceived breakdown of the balance of power in Europe , convoluted and fragmented governance , the arms races of the previous decades , previous military  नियोजन , इम्पीरियल और औपनिवेशिक फंसने लिये माल , शक्ति और प्रतिष्ठा , और आर्थिक और  military rivalry in industry and trade – e.g. , the Pig War between Austria and Serbia .
Other causes that came into play during the diplomatic crisis that preceded the war included misperceptions of intent ( e.g. , the German belief that the United  किंगडम होता remain न्यूट्रल ) और देरी और misunderstandings  in diplomatic communications .
The various categories of explanation for World  युद्ध i correspond to अलग  historians ' overall methods .
Most historians  और लोकप्रिय टीकाकारों शामिल कल्याणकारी  from more than one category of explanation to provide a rounded account of the causes of the war .
The deepest distinction among these accounts is between stories that see it as the inevitable and  predictable निष्कर्ष of निश्चित कारकों , और those कि  describe it as an arbitrary and unfortunate mistake .
In attributing  कल्याणकारी लिये the युद्ध , इतिहासकारों और लड था to सौदे साथ an unprecedented  flood of memoirs and official documents , released as each country involved tried to avoid blame for starting the war .
Early releases of information by  सरकारें , विशेषकर those released लिये उपयोग by the `` आयोग  on the Responsibility of the Authors of the War '' were shown to be incomplete and biased .
In addition some documents , especially  राजनयिक केबल between  Russia and France , were found to have been doctored .
Even in later decades however , when much more  सूचना था महरूम released , इतिहासकारों इससे the वही संस्कृति  have been shown to come to differing conclusions on the causes of the war .
Johnson 's new  चार्ट of नेशनल  emblems , published c. 1868 .
The  विशाल ध्वज दिखाया in the किनारे हैं the 37-star ध्वज  of the United States ( flown 1867-1877 ) , the Royal Standard of the United Kingdom , the Russian Imperial Standard , and the French tricolore with inset Imperial Eagle .
Various other  ध्वज flown  by ships are shown .
The Flag of Cuba is labelled `` Cuban ( so  पुकारा ) ``  .
The Chinese  ड्रैगन on the ध्वज of चीन  was drawn mistakenly as a western dragon .
A national flag is a  ध्वज कि  symbolizes a country .
The flag is flown by the government ,  लकिन प्रायः can  also be flown by citizens of the country .
Both  पब्लिक और निजी  buildings such as schools and courthouses may fly the national flag .
In some countries , the national flags are only flown from non-military  इमारतें on निश्चित ध्वज दिनों  .
There are three distinct types of national flag for use on land , and three for use at sea , though many countries use identical designs for several ( and sometimes  सब ) of ये  types of flag .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and  अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य  that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of  गुलामी , विशेषकर  the extension of slavery into the western territories .
विदेशी शक्तियां  did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring  नेशनल एकता और guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed  slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed  expanding गुलामी  into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before  उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861  , seven cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming  republicans अस्वीकृत  secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his  प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate  civil war .
Eight remaining  स्लेव  states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized  numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर  territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a  सुलह , और दोनो पहलू prepared  for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and  none पहचाना the नई confederate  States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by  संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण कैरोलिना  .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the  confederacy , bringing उनके कुल  to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and  स्थापित  a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into  मेरीलैंड ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate रिट्रीट  at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the  emancipation  Proclamation , which made ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and the Union at  vicksburg विभाजित  the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's  confederate incursion  north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant  कमांड of सब  Union armies in 1864 .
In the  पश्चिमी थिएटर , विलियम T. शरमन  drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and  जनशक्ति to आक्रमण the confederacy इससे सब दिशानिर्देश , और  could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court  हाउस  on April 9 , 1865 .
The American  सिविल युद्ध थी एक of  the earliest true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced  हथियार यहूद employed extensively  .
The  mobilization of civilian कारखानों  , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated  750,000 सैनिको और an  undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all  उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो  old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Norrie disease is a genetic disorder that primarily affects the eye and almost  सदा लीड to दृष्टिहीनता  .
In addition to the congenital ocular symptoms , some patients suffer from a progressive hearing loss starting mostly in their 2nd decade of  जीवन , जबकि another portion may be मानसिक  challenged .
Patients with Norrie disease may develop cataracts , leukocoria ( a condition where the pupils appear white when light is  shone on उन्हें ) , साथ साथ अन्य developmental  issues in the eye , such as shrinking of the globe and the wasting away of the iris .
Around 30–50 % of them will also  have developmental डेलाy/ दिमागी retardation , psychotic-like सुविधाएँ  , incoordination of movements or behavioral abnormalities .
Most patients are born with normal hearing ; however , the onset of hearing  घाटा is बहुत  common in early adolescence .
About 15 % of the patients are  अनुमानित to develop सब  the features of the disease .
the बीमारी affects लगभग तभी  male infants at birth or soon after birth , because the disease is inherited X-linked recessive .
Only in very rare cases , females have been  diagnosed साथ norrie बीमारी as खूब  .
The exact incidence number  is अनजान  ; only a few hundred cases have been reported so far .
It is a very rare disorder that is not  संबद्ध  with any specific ethnic or racial groups .
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by  दो or अधिक पार्टियों , प्रत्येक of जिसको intends to बनाएँ  one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and `` acceptance '' by `` competent persons '' having legal capacity who  एक्सचेंज `` विचार '' to बनाएँ `` mutuality of दायित्व  . ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may be done  in लिखने  , though contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct .
The remedy for  उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can  be `` damages '' in the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction .
Both of these remedies  पुरस्कार the पार्टी at घाटा the  `` benefit of the bargain '' or expectation damages , which are greater than mere reliance damages , as in promissory estoppel .
The parties may be natural  व्यक्तियों or juristic  persons .
A contract is a legally  enforceable वादा  or undertaking that something will or will not occur .
The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract , although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract , as when it is an  अनुबंध बगैर  consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another , including differences in common law compared to civil law ,  the प्रभाव of प्राप्त विधि , विशेषकर इससे इंग्लैण्ड in आम विधि देशों , और of विधि संहिताबद्ध  in regional legislation .
regarding ऑस्ट्रेलियाई अनुबंध विधि लिये उदाहरण , वहीँ हैं  40 relevant acts which impact on the interpretation of contract at the Commonwealth ( Federal / national ) level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are  लागू लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings , ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सम्मेलन on  Contracts for the International Sale of Goods .
ASP.NET is a  server-side वेब अनुप्रयोग  framework designed for Web development to produce dynamic Web pages .
It was developed by  microsoft to allow प्रोग्रामर्स  to build dynamic web sites , web applications and web services .
It was first  released in जनवरी 2002  with version 1.0 of the .NET Framework , and is the successor to Microsoft 's Active Server Pages ( ASP ) technology .
ASP.NET is built on the Common Language Runtime ( CLR ) , allowing programmers  to लिखें asp.net  code using any supported .NET language .
The ASP.NET SOAP extension  फ्रेमवर्क allows  ASP.NET components to process SOAP messages .
Lysergic acid diethylamide , abbreviated  एलएसडी or lsd-25 , भी ज्ञात as lysergide ( इन ) और colloquially as एसिड , is a semisynthetic साइकेडेलिक ड्रग of the ergoline परिवार , खूब  known for its psychological effects which can include altered thinking processes , closed and open eye visuals , synesthesia , an altered sense of time and spiritual experiences , as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture .
It is used mainly as an entheogen , recreational drug , and as an agent in  साइकेडेलिक चिकित्सा  .
LSD is  non-addictive , is  not known to cause brain damage , and has extremely low toxicity relative to dose .
However , adverse psychiatric reactions such as anxiety  , paranoia , और delusions  are possible .
LSD was first synthesized by Albert Hofmann in 1938 from ergotamine , a chemical derived by Arthur Stoll from ergot  , a अनाज कवक कि typically grows on  rye .
The short form `` LSD '' comes from its early code name LSD-25 , which  is an संक्षिप्त लिये the जर्मनी `` lysergsäure-diethylamid  '' followed by a sequential number .
LSD is sensitive to oxygen , ultraviolet light , and chlorine ,  विशेषकर in समाधान , हालांकि  its potency may last for years if it is stored away from light and moisture at low temperature .
In pure form it is a colorless ,  गंधहीन , tasteless ठोस  .
LSD is typically delivered orally , usually on  a substrate ऐसे as absorbent  blotter paper , a sugar cube , or gelatin .
In its liquid form , it  can भी be administered  by intramuscular or intravenous injection .
LSD  is बहुत potent , साथ 20–30 μg  ( micrograms ) being the threshold dose .
New experiments with LSD  प्रारंभ in 2009 लिये the  first time in 40 years .
Introduced by Sandoz Laboratories , with trade-name Delysid , as a drug with various psychiatric uses in 1947 , LSD quickly became a  therapeutic एजेंट कि appeared  to show great promise .
In the  1950s , officials at the u.S. सेंट्रल प्रज्ञा एजेंसी ( सीआईए  ) thought the drug might be applicable to mind control and chemical warfare ; the agency 's MKULTRA research program propagated the drug among young servicemen and students .
The  subsequent recreational उपयोग  of the drug by youth culture in the Western world during the 1960s led to a political firestorm that resulted in its prohibition .
Currently , a number of organizations—including the Beckley Foundation , MAPS , Heffter Research Institute and the Albert Hofmann Foundation—exist to fund , encourage  और निर्देशांक शोध into the औषधीय  and spiritual uses of LSD and related psychedelics .
The United States Navy 's Sea , Air , Land Teams ,  commonly ज्ञात as the नेवी seals , हैं the u.S. नेवी 's प्रिंसिपल खास परिचालन  force and a part of the Naval Special Warfare Command and United States Special Operations Command .
`` SEAL '' is always capitalized in reference to members  of the नवल खास warfare जातियाँ  .
The acronym is  निकला इससे उनके क्षमता  to operate at sea , in the air , and on land .
SEALs are male members of the  संयुक्त राज्य  Navy .
An exchange program with the Coast  गार्ड , जिससे  graduated three Coast Guardsmen as SEALs , was suspended in 2011 .
The CIA 's highly secretive Special Activities  प्रभाग ( उदास ) और अधिक specifically इसके elite खास परिचालन  Group ( SOG ) recruits operators from the SEAL Teams .
Joint Navy SEALs and CIA operations go back to the  famed macv-sog  during the Vietnam War .
This cooperation still exists today and is seen in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan ,  और in the ढूंढना और हत्या  of Osama bin Laden in Pakistan .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections ( red  , नारंगी , ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक  estimates ( black ) .
Actual recorded  जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़े  are in blue .
According to the highest  अनुमान , the संसार जनसांख्यिकी  may rise to 16 billion by 2100 ; according to the lowest estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is the total number of living humans on  धरती  .
As of today , it is estimated to number  अरब by the संयुक्त  States Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
The USCB  estimates कि  the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund , it reached this milestone on October 31 ,  2011  .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine and the  ब्लैक मौत in 1350 , जब it stood at  around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth – global population increases above 1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s , and  लिये a longer काल दौरान the  1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , and  था अस्वीकृत to 1.1 %  by 2011 .
Total annual births were  उच्चतम in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख  , and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million , while deaths number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the population growth rate ) ,  साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to पहुँचें between 7.5 और  10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term  estimates भविष्यवाणी further विकास , stagnation , or  even overall decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth , citing  the growing pressures on the पर्यावरण , वैश्विक  food supplies , and energy resources .
Memphis is a city in the southwestern corner of the U.S. state of Tennessee , and the county seat of  शेल्बी काउंटी  .
The city is located on the 4th Chickasaw  bluff , दक्षिण of the  confluence of the Wolf and Mississippi rivers .
Memphis had a population of 672,277 in 2011 making it the largest city in the state of Tennessee , the largest city on the Mississippi River , the third  largest in the southeastern संयुक्त  States , and the 20th largest in the United States .
The  वृहद मेम्फिस महानगर क्षेत्रफल , सहित सटा  counties in Mississippi and Arkansas , had a 2010 population of 1,316,100 .
This makes Memphis the second largest metropolitan area in Tennessee , surpassed only by metropolitan  नैशविले , जिससे  has overtaken Memphis in recent years .
मेम्फिस is the  youngest of Tennessee 's major cities .
A resident of Memphis is referred to as a Memphian , and the Memphis region  is ज्ञात , विशेषकर to मीडिया  outlets , as `` Memphis & The Mid-South `` .
The Cattenom Nuclear  शक्ति संयंत्र  in France .
France produces around three  quarters of  its electricity by nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld  नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र  in Germany .
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced on May 30 , 2011 , that Germany’s 17 nuclear  शक्ति स्टेशन होगा be shut bas by  2022 , in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently , 68  रिएक्टरों हैं अंतर्गत निर्माण  in 15 countries .
Nuclear  शक्ति स्टेशन  operate in thirty countries .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster , it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year , although according to the World Nuclear Association , of the 17  civilian रिएक्टरों नियोजित to become operational between 2007 और 2009 , तभी  five actually came on stream .
As of June  2011 , जर्मनी और स्विट्ज़रलैंड  are phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 ,  देशों ऐसे as ऑस्ट्रेलिया , ऑस्ट्रिया , डेनमार्क  , Greece , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Liechtenstein , Luxembourg , Malaysia , Malta , New Zealand , Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power .
skeletal  muscles homo sapiens
This is a table of  मांसपेशियां of  the human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one  भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां  , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
nevertheless , the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल  to define because different sources group muscles differently , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
Examples range  इससे 640 to  850 .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of  समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर और गर्दन  , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers to the action of each muscle from the standard  anatomical स्थिति  .
In other positions ,  अन्य  actions may be performed .
A reenactment of a  बैटल at फोर्ट फोस्टर , 1837 ( at  Hillsborough River State Park )
The Seminole Wars , also known as the Florida Wars , were three conflicts in Florida between the Seminole — the collective name  दिए to the amalgamation of विभिन्न समूह of देशी अमेरिकी और ब्लैक लोगों जो settled in फ्लोरिडा  in the early 18th century — and the United States Army .
The First Seminole War was from 1814 to 1819 ( although sources differ ) , the Second Seminole War from 1835 to  1842 , और the तीसरा seminole युद्ध इससे 1855  to 1858 .
The first conflict with the Seminoles  arose आउट of तनाव relating to  General Andrew Jackson 's attack and destruction of Negro Fort in Florida in 1816 .
Jackson also attacked the Spanish at  pensacola  .
Ultimately , the Spanish Crown ceded the  उपनिवेश to संयुक्त  States rule .
Orono is a town in Penobscot County ,  maine , संयुक्त राज्य  .
It was  पहला settled in 1774 और  named in honor of Chief Joseph Orono of the Penobscot Nation .
It is home to The  विश्वविद्यालयों of maine  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 10,362 at the 2010 census .
दृश्य  of the pyramid
Luxor Las Vegas is a hotel and casino on the Las Vegas Strip  in स्वर्ग , नेवाडा  .
The 30-story hotel , owned and operated by MGM Resorts  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  , has a casino with over 2,000 slot machines and 87 table games .
In the 2008 to 2009 renovation , it has a new , highly modernized , and contemporary design and contains a total of 4,400 rooms , including 442 suites , lining the interior walls of a pyramid  स्टाइल मीनार और भीतर जुड़वा 22-story ziggurat मीनारें कि यहूद  built as later additions .
The hotel is named  बाद the नगर of  Luxor ( ancient Thebes ) in Egypt .
Luxor is the second largest hotel in Las Vegas ( the largest being the MGM Grand ) and  the आठवीं largest  in the world .
As of 2010 , the Luxor has a 4 Key rating from the Green Key  eco-rating कार्यक्रम , जिससे evaluates `` चिरस्थायी  '' hotel operations .
A pilot experiment , also called a pilot study , is a small scale preliminary study  conducted in अनुक्रम to evaluate feasibility , समय , लागत , प्रतिकूल कार्यक्रम , और प्रभाव  size ( statistical variability ) in an attempt to predict an appropriate sample size and improve upon the study design prior to performance of a full-scale research project .
Pilot  अध्ययन , इसलिए  , may not be appropriate for case studies .
The Los Angeles Fire Department ( LAFD ) is the agency  कि provides आग सुरक्षा और आपात चिकित्सा सेवाएं  for the city of Los Angeles .
It may be unofficially referred to  as the लॉस एंजिल्स नगर आग विभाग  to distinguish it from the Los Angeles County Fire Department .
The  एकड़ is a ईकाई of क्षेत्रफल  used in the imperial and U.S. customary systems .
An acre  is परिचय 40 % of a  hectare – slightly smaller than an American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a few notable exceptions include the  संयुक्त राज्य , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , बर्मा और the संयुक्त किंगडम (  as of 2010 , the acre is no longer officially used in the United Kingdom , though is still used in real estate descriptions ) .
It is still used  , to कुछ extent  , in Canada .
The international  प्रतीक of the एकड़ is ac , और is पारिभाषित  as 1/640 of a square mile .
The most  commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़ आज  is the international acre .
In the United States both  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एकड़ और the थोड़ा अलग  US survey acre are in use .
The most common use of the acre  is to माप  tracts of land .
One international  एकड़ is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224  square metres .
During  the मध्य  Ages , an acre was the amount of land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen .
Pawnee initially refers to a Native American  लोगों और इसके language:
Pawnee  लोगों
pawnee  language
Pawnee is also the name  of अनेक  places in the United States:
pawnee ,  Illinois
Pawnee  , कान्सास
Pawnee  नगर ,  Nebraska
pawnee ,  Oklahoma
pawnee  , Texas
Pawnee  नेशनल  Grassland , Colorado
Pawnee Township (  बहुविकल्पी )
Pawnee County (  बहुविकल्पी )
Pawnee  may भी  refer to:
पाइपर pa-25 pawnee  , agricultural aircraft
Hiller VZ-1 Pawnee ,  प्रायोगिक  aircraft
Pawnee , Indiana ( fictional city ) the fictional  सेटिंग of the एनबीसी टेलीविज़न  comedy Parks and Recreation .
Broca 's and  wernicke  's Areas
Language processing refers to the way human beings use words to communicate ideas and  जज्बात , और कैसा ऐसे संचार हैं processed  and understood .
Thus it is how the brain creates and understands  भाषा  .
Most recent theories consider that this process is carried out entirely  by और अंदर  the brain .
This is considered one of the most characteristic  abilities of  the human species - perhaps the most characteristic .
However very little is known about it  और वहीँ is विशाल पैमाना लिये  research on it .
Most of the knowledge acquired to date on the subject has come from patients who  have suffered कुछ प्रकार of significant सिर चोट , whether बाह्य ( wounds , बुलेट ) or  internal ( strokes , tumors , degenerative diseases ) .
Studies have shown that most of the language processing functions are  carried आउट in the दिमागी  cortex .
The essential function of the  cortical  language areas is symbolic representation .
Even though language exists in different forms , all of them  हैं आधारित on सांकेतिक  representation .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a  mid-engined ग्रैंड touring car , designed और  developed by the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
The Super Sport  संस्करण of the veyron is the तीव्रतम street-legal  production car in the world , with a top speed of .
The original  संस्करण रै a  top speed of .
It was named Car  of the दशक ( 2000–2009  ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best  car चलित सब साल पुरस्कार  in 2005 .
On 6 April 2013 , Bugatti set the record  लिये the तीव्रतम roadster in the  world with the Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse , reaching on average a top speed of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss , and the exterior was designed by Jozef Kabaň of  volkswagen , साथ  much of the engineering work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A  क्रमांक of खास  variants have been produced .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began offering prospective buyers the  क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स  colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website .
DVD is an optical disc storage format , invented and developed by Philips , Sony  , तोशिबा , और पैनासोनिक  in 1995 .
DVDs offer  उच्चतर भंडार क्षमता than कॉम्पैक्ट  discs while having the same dimensions .
Pre-recorded DVDs are  mass-produced using सांचा मशीने कि  physically stamp data onto the DVD .
Such discs are known as DVD-  rom , क्युकी  data can only be read and not written nor erased .
Blank recordable DVD discs ( DVD-R and DVD+R ) can be recorded once using a DVD recorder and then function as a DVD-ROM . Rewritable DVDs (  dvd-rw , dvd+rw , और dvd-ram  ) can be recorded and erased multiple times .
DVDs are used in DVD-Video consumer digital video format and in DVD-Audio consumer  डिजिटल ऑडियो  format , as well as for authoring AVCHD discs .
DVDs containing other types of  सूचना may be referred  to as DVD data discs .
What Chilli Wants is an  अमरीकी वास्तविकता श्रेणी on vh1 अभिनीत  Chilli , one-third of the Grammy Award -winning R & B trio TLC .
The show  क्रॉनिकल्स chilli 's क्वेस्ट to  find love with the help of Tionna T. Smalls , an author and relationship coach .
The  श्रेणी premiered on अप्रैल 11 ,  2010 , and has since been renewed for a second season .
The second season premiered on  संडे , जनवरी 2  , 2011 .
Peter Gene Hernandez ( born October 8  , 1985 ) , ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम ब्रूनो मंगल , is  an American singer-songwriter and record producer .
Raised in Honolulu , Hawaii , by a family of musicians , Mars began making music at a young age and performed in various  musical venues in उसके गृहनगर throughout  his childhood .
He graduated from high school  और तब स्थानांतरित to  Los Angeles , California , to pursue a musical career .
Mars produced songs for other artists , joining  उत्पादन टोली  The Smeezingtons .
Mars  था an unsuccessful  stint with Motown Records , but then signed with Atlantic in 2009 .
He became  पहचाना as a सोलो कलाकार बाद lending उसके vocals और co-writing the hooks  for the songs `` Nothin ' on You `` by B.o.B , and `` Billionaire `` by Travie McCoy .
He also co-wrote the hits `` Right Round `` by Flo Rida featuring Ke $ ha , and `` Wavin '  ध्वज `` by k'naan  .
In October 2010 ,  he released उसके डेब्यू  album , Doo-Wops & Hooligans .
Anchored by the worldwide  number-one singles `` बस the रास्ता तुम हैं `` और `` ग्रेनेड `` , the एल्बम  peaked at number three on the Billboard 200 .
Mars was nominated for seven Grammys at  the 53rd ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  , winning Best Male Pop Vocal Performance for `` Just the Way You Are '' .
His second studio album , Unorthodox Jukebox , was released  on दिसम्बर 11 , 2012 .
Mars ' music is noted for displaying a wide variety of styles and  प्रभाव , और contains तत्व  of many musical genres .
He has worked with an  assortment of कलाकारों  from various genres .
As a child , he was highly  बहकावे by कलाकारों ऐसे as छोटी रिचर्ड , एल्विस प्रेस्ली  and Michael Jackson and would often impersonate these artists from a young age .
Mars also incorporates  रेगी - और motown -inspired  sounds into his work .
Worldwide , Mars became  the best-selling  digital artist in 2011 .
He had three singles in the  शीर्ष टेन , सहित पहला प्लेस साथ  `` Just the Way You Are '' , which sold 12.5 million copies .
Mars won Best International  पुरूष सोलो  Artist at the 2012 BRIT Awards .
Bruno Mars has sold 6 million albums and 40 million singles  विश्वव्यापी as a सिंगर  .
althought  as a song-writer , producer and singer his total single download sales surpass 100 million worldwide .
Bust of Zeus , Otricoli ( Sala Rotonda ,  museo pio-clementino  , Vatican ) .
Greek mythology is the body of myths and teachings that belong to the ancient Greeks , concerning  उनके देवताओं और नायक , the प्रकृति of the संसार  , and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices .
It was a part of the religion in ancient Greece and is part of religion in modern  यूनानियों और around the  world , known as Hellenismos .
Modern scholars refer to and study the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious and political institutions of  प्राचीन यूनानियों और इसके सभ्यता , और to लाभ समझना  of the nature of myth-making itself .
Greek mythology is explicitly embodied in a large collection of narratives , and implicitly in  यूनानी representational कला , ऐसे as  vase-paintings and votive gifts .
Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of  the संसार  , and details the lives and adventures of a wide variety of gods , goddesses , heroes , heroines , and mythological creatures .
These accounts initially  यहूद disseminated in an oral-poetic  tradition ; today the Greek myths are known primarily from Greek literature .
The oldest known Greek literary  स्त्रोत , होमर 's एपिक कविताएं इलियड और ओडिसी  , focus on events surrounding the Trojan War .
Two poems by Homer 's near contemporary Hesiod , the Theogony and the Works and Days , contain accounts of the genesis of the world , the succession of divine rulers , the  उत्तराधिकार of इंसान आयु , the उत्पत्ति  of human woes , and the origin of sacrificial practices .
Myths are also preserved in the Homeric Hymns , in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle , in lyric poems , in the works of the  tragedians of the पांचवां सदी bc , in कृतियाँ  of scholars and poets of the Hellenistic Age , and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias .
Archaeological findings  provide a प्रिंसिपल सोर्स of विवरण परिचय  Greek mythology , with gods and heroes featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts .
Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth  सदी bc depict दृश्यों इससे  the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles .
In the succeeding Archaic , Classical , and Hellenistic periods , Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear , supplementing the  मौजूदा  literary evidence .
यूनानी mythology रै था an extensive influence  on the culture , arts , and literature of Western civilization and remains part of Western heritage and language .
Poets and artists from ancient times to the present have derived inspiration from Greek mythology and have discovered  समकालीन significance और  relevance in the themes .
Mouth  & macneal  in 1971
Mouth &  macneal थी  a pop duo from the Netherlands .
They are best known for  उनके लाख selling रिकॉर्डिंग of `` कैसा do  You Do `` .
The Boise State Broncos football program represents Boise  राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों  in college football and compete in the Football Bowl Subdivision ( FBS ) of Division I as a member of the Mountain West Conference .
They are currently led by head  कोच क्रिस petersen और खेल उनके  home games at Bronco Stadium .
The franc ( sign : Fr . or SFr . ; German : Franken , French and Romansh : franc , Italian : franco ;  कोड : chf ) is the करेंसी और विधिक टेंडर of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein  ; it is also legal tender in the Italian exclave Campione d'Italia .
Although not formally legal tender in the German exclave  büsingen ( the एकमात्र विधिक करेंसी is the यूरोपियन  ) , it is in wide daily use there .
The Swiss National Bank issues banknotes and the federal mint  swissmint मुद्दे  coins .
The Swiss  फ़्रैंक is the तभी संस्करण  of the franc still issued in Europe .
The smaller denomination , a hundredth of a franc , is a Rappen ( Rp . ) in German , centime ( c. ) in French , centesimo (  ct. ) in इतालवी , और रैप  ( rp . ) in Romansh .
The ISO code of  the करेंसी प्रयुक्त by बैंको और  financial institutions is CHF , although `` Fr . '' is used by most businesses and advertisers ; some use SFr . ; the Latinate `` CH '' stands for Confoederatio Helvetica .
Given the different languages used in Switzerland , Latin is used for  language-neutral inscriptions  on the coins .
Sir Charles Spencer `` Charlie  '' चैपलिन , ( 16 अप्रैल 188925 दिसम्बर  1977 ) was a British comic actor and filmmaker who rose to fame in the silent era .
Chaplin became a worldwide icon through his  स्क्रीन persona `` the ट्रैम्प  `` and is considered one of the most important figures of the film industry .
His career spanned more than 75 years , from a child in the Victorian  era to बंद to उसके मौत at the आयु of 88 , और  encompassed both adulation and controversy .
उठाया in लंदन  , Chaplin 's childhood was defined by poverty and hardship .
He was sent to  a workhouse twice पहले  the age of nine ; his father was absent , and his mother was committed to a mental asylum .
Chaplin began performing from a young  आयु , touring म्यूज़िक  halls and later working as a stage actor and comedian .
At 19  he थी हस्ताक्षरित to the  prestigious Fred Karno company , which took him to America .
चैपलिन थी scouted by the फिल्मी  industry , and made his first appearances in 1914 with Keystone Studios .
He soon developed the  ट्रैम्प persona और  formed a large fan base .
Chaplin directed his films from an early stage , and continued to hone his craft as he moved to the Essanay ,  परस्पर , और पहला नेशनल corporations  .
By 1918 , he was one of the most famous  मेन in the संसार  .
In 1919 , Chaplin  co-founded the वितरण  company United Artists , giving him complete control over his films .
His first feature-length picture was The Kid ( 1921  ) , followed by a स्त्री of पेरिस ( 1923 ) , the सुनहरा फटाफट  ( 1925 ) , and The Circus ( 1928 ) .
He refused to move to sound films in the 1930s ,  बजाय producing नगर लाइट्स  ( 1931 ) and Modern Times ( 1936 ) without dialogue .
Chaplin became increasingly political and his next film ,  the ग्रेट तानाशाह ( 1940 ) ,  satirised Adolf Hitler .
The 1940s was a decade  चिह्नित साथ विवाद लिये  Chaplin , and his popularity declined rapidly .
He was  अभियुक्त of कम्युनिस्ट sympathies , जबकि  his involvement in a paternity suit and marriages to much younger women were considered scandalous .
An FBI  छानबीन थी  opened on Chaplin , and he was eventually forced to leave the United States and settle in Switzerland .
He abandoned the Tramp for his  बाद films , जिससे शामिल monsieur verdoux  ( 1947 ) , Limelight ( 1952 ) , A King in New York ( 1957 ) , and A Countess From Hong Kong ( 1967 ) .
Chaplin wrote ,  निर्देशित , उत्पादित , संपादित  , scored , and starred in most of his films .
He was a perfectionist , and his financial  स्वतंत्रता meant  he often spent years on the development and production of a picture .
His films are characterised by slapstick combined with pathos , and  प्रायः विशेषता the  Tramp struggling against adversity .
Many contain social and political  विषयवस्तु , as खूब as autobiographical तत्व  .
In 1972 , as part of a  नवीनीकृत सराहना  for his work , Chaplin received an Honorary Academy Award for `` the incalculable effect he has had in making motion pictures the art form of this century '' .
He continues to be held in high regard , with The Gold  फटाफट , नगर  Lights , Modern Times , and The Great Dictator often ranked among the greatest films of all time .
नियोजित parenthood संघ of  America ( PPFA ) , commonly shortened to Planned Parenthood , is the U.S. affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood Federation ( IPPF ) and one of its larger members .
PPFA is a non-profit organization providing reproductive health and maternal and  चाइल्ड स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं  .
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund , Inc. ( PPAF ) is a related organization which lobbies  लिये pro-choice विधान  , comprehensive sex education , and access to affordable health care in the United States .
Planned Parenthood is the largest U.S. provider of reproductive  स्वास्थ्य सेवाएं , सहित कर्कट स्क्रीनिंग , hiv स्क्रीनिंग  and counseling , contraception , and abortion .
Contraception accounts for 35 % of PPFA 's total services and abortions account for 3 % ;  ppfa conducts roughly  300,000 abortions each year , among 3 million people served .
The  संगठन रै इसके जड़ें  in Brooklyn , New York , where Margaret Sanger opened the country 's first birth-control clinic .
Sanger founded the American Birth Control League in 1921 , which in 1942 became part of the Planned Parenthood  संघ of अमेरिका .
Since then ,  नियोजित parenthood रै grown to have over 820 क्लिनिक  locations in the U.S. , with a total budget of US $ 1 billion .
PPFA provides  an सरणी of सेवाएं to over तीन लाख लोगों  in the United States , and supports services for over one million clients outside the United States .
Mens rea is Latin  लिये  `` guilty mind '' .
in दण्ड  law , it is viewed as one of the necessary elements of some crimes .
The standard common  विधि परीक्षण of दण्ड देयता is प्रायः expressed in the  Latin phrase , actus non facit reum nisi mens sit rea , which means `` the act is not culpable unless the mind is guilty '' .
Thus , in jurisdictions with due process , there must  be an actus reus , or `` अपराधी अधिनियम , '' accompanied  by some level of mens rea to constitute the crime with which the defendant is charged ( see the technical requirement of concurrence ) .
As a general rule , criminal liability does  नहीं संलग्न to a व्यक्ति जो acted  with the absence of mental fault .
The  एक्सेप्शन  is strict liability crimes .
In civil law , it is usually not necessary to prove a subjective  दिमागी तत्व to स्थापित  liability for breach of contract or tort , for example .
However , if a tort is intentionally committed or a  अनुबंध is intentionally breached , ऐसे intent may बढ़ाएँ  the scope of liability as well as the measure of damages payable to the plaintiff .
Therefore , mens rea refers to the mental element of the offence that  accompanies the actus reus .
In some jurisdictions , the terms mens rea and  actus reus have महरूम replaced by वैकल्पिक  terminology .
In Australia , for example , the elements of the federal offences are now designated as `` fault elements '' or `` mental  तत्व '' ( पुरुषों rea ) और `` शारीरिक तत्व '' or `` बाह्य तत्व  '' ( actus reus ) .
This terminology was adopted to replace  the अस्पष्टता of the लैटिन शर्तें  with simple and accurate phrasing .
Ulysses S. Grant ( born Hiram Ulysses Grant ; April 27 , 1822 – July 23 , 1885 ) was the 18th President of the United States ( 1869–1877 ) following his highly successful role as a war  सामान्य in the दूसरी हाफ of the  Civil War .
Under Grant , the Union Army defeated the Confederate military ; having effectively ended the  युद्ध और secession साथ the आत्मसमर्पण of रॉबर्ट E.  Lee 's army at Appomattox .
As president he led the Radical  republicans in उनके  effort to eliminate all vestiges of Confederate nationalism and slavery .
Upset over uncontrolled violence in the South and having  desired to protect अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी नागरिकता  , President Grant effectively destroyed the Ku Klux Klan in 1871 .
Grant was the first President to establish Civil Service reform  having निर्मित a two-year  federally funded Civil Service Commission in 1871 .
In terms  of विदेशी नीति , ग्रान्ट नाज़िल an `` अनपेक्षित क्षमता  for deliberation and consultation '' that promoted the national interest .
His reputation was marred by his repeated defense of corrupt appointees , and by America 's first  औद्योगिक आयु आर्थिक  depression ( called the `` Panic of 1873 `` ) that dominated his second term .
Although his Republican Party split in 1872 with reformers denouncing him ,  ग्रान्ट थी easily reelected  .
By 1875 the conservative white Southern opposition regained control of every state in the South and as  he बाएँ the श्वेत हाउस in कूच 1877 उसके नीतियों यहूद होने undone  .
A career soldier , he graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point and served in the  mexican–american युद्ध  .
When the Civil War began in 1861 , Grant  प्रशिक्षित संघ स्वयंसेवी  regiments in Illinois .
In 1862 , as a general he fought  a श्रेणी of लड़ाइयों और थी प्रचारित to प्रमुख सामान्य  after forcing the surrender of a large Confederate army and gaining control of Kentucky and most of Tennessee .
He then led Union forces to victory after initial setbacks in the Battle of Shiloh , earning a  प्रतिष्ठा as an आक्रामक कमांडर  .
In July 1863  , बाद a long , जटिल अभियान , ग्रान्ट पराजित  five uncoordinated Confederate armies ( capturing one of them ) and seized Vicksburg .
This famous victory gave the Union full control of  the मिसिसिपी नदी , विभाजित बंद the  western Confederacy , and opened the way for more Union triumphs .
After another win at the Battle of Chattanooga in late 1863 , President  अब्राहम lincoln बना उसे लेफ्टिनेंट सामान्य  and commander of all of the Union Armies .
As commanding general of the army ,  ग्रान्ट confronted रॉबर्ट E. ली in a श्रेणी of बहुत खूनी  battles in 1864 known as the Overland Campaign that ended with the bottling up of Lee at Petersburg , outside the Confederate capital of Richmond .
During the siege , Grant coordinated a series of devastating campaigns  शुभारम्भ by विलियम tecumseh शरमन , फिलिप sheridan , और जार्ज थामस  .
Finally  तोड़कर through ली 's trenches  , the Union Army captured Richmond in April 1865 .
Lee surrendered his depleted forces to Grant at Appomattox as  the confederacy collapsed  .
Although pro-Confederate historians attacked  ग्रान्ट as a निष्ठुर कसाई  who won by brute force , most historians have hailed his military genius .
Grant 's two consecutive terms as President  stabilized the स्वदेश बाद the अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध  and during the turbulent Reconstruction period that followed .
As president , he enforced Reconstruction by enforcing civil rights laws and  लड़ ku klux क्लान हिंसा  .
Grant won passage of the Fifteenth Amendment ; giving constitutional protection for  african-american मतदान अधिकारों  .
He used the army to build the Republican Party in the South , based on black voters , Northern newcomers ( `` Carpetbaggers `` )  और देशी श्वेत समर्थक ( `` scalawags .  '' )
As a result , African Americans were represented in the U.S. Congress for the first time in  अमरीकी इतिहास in  1870 .
Reformers praised Grant 's Indian peace policy by  having टूटा  the deadlock on Indian appropriations in Congress , the creation of the Board of Indian Commissioners to make reform recommendations , and his enlistment of Quaker Protestants who controlled mid western Indian agencies , that effectively curbed Congressional patronage .
Grant remained determined in keeping Indians from being exterminated from white settler  अतिक्रमण or by  the U.S. military .
Grant 's reputation as president by 1875 was at an all-time high for his previous  वीटो of the महंगाई विधेयक , the ड्योढ़ी of the resumption of specie अधिनियम , और सचिव  Bristow 's successful raids that shut down the Whiskey Ring .
Grant 's foreign policy , led by Secretary of State Hamilton Fish ,  implemented अंतरराष्ट्रीय मध्यस्थता , settled  the Alabama Claims with Britain and avoided war with Spain over the Virginius Affair .
A jukebox is a partially automated music-playing device , usually a coin-operated machine , that will play a patron 's  चयन इससे self-contained मीडिया  .
The classic jukebox has buttons with letters and numbers on them that , when  डाला in संयोजन , हैं प्रयुक्त to  play a specific selection .
A drug test is a technical analysis of a  biological नमूना – लिये उदाहरण मूत्र ,  hair , blood , sweat , or oral fluid / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites .
Major uses of drug testing are to  detect  the presence of performance enhancing steroids in sport or for drugs prohibited by laws , such as cannabis , cocaine and heroin .
A ``  10-panel मूत्र स्क्रीन '' consists  of the following:
amphetamines (  including Methamphetamine )
barbiturates
benzodiazepines
cannabinoids  ( THC )
कोका
methadone
methaqualone
Opiates ( Codeine , Morphine , Heroin , Oxycodone ,  hydrocodone  , etc . )
phencyclidine ( pcp  )
propoxyphene
Saturn V rocket , used for the American manned lunar  लैंडिंग मिशन
Space exploration is the discovery and exploration of outer  स्पेस by अर्थात्  of space technology .
Physical exploration of space is conducted both by human  spaceflights और by रोबोटिक  spacecraft .
While  the अवलोकन of वस्तुएँ  in space , known as astronomy , predates reliable recorded history , it was the development of large and relatively efficient rockets during the early 20th century that allowed physical space exploration to become a reality .
Common rationales for exploring space include advancing scientific  शोध , uniting अलग राष्ट्र , ensuring  the future survival of humanity and developing military and strategic advantages against other countries .
विभिन्न आलोचनाओं  of space exploration are sometimes made .
Space exploration has often been  प्रयुक्त as a प्रॉक्सी प्रतियोगिता  for geopolitical rivalries such as the Cold War .
The early era of space exploration was driven by a `` Space Race `` between the Soviet Union and the United States , the launch of the first man-made object to orbit the Earth , the USSR 's Sputnik 1 , on 4  अक्तूबर 1957 , और the पहला चंद्रमा लैंडिंग by the अमरीकी अपोलो 11 शिल्प on 20 जुलाई 1969 हैं प्रायः लिया as the सीमाएँ लिये इस आरंभिक  period .
The Soviet space program achieved many of the first milestones , including the first living being in orbit in 1957 , the first human spaceflight ( Yuri Gagarin aboard Vostok 1 ) in 1961 , the first spacewalk ( by  aleksei leonov ) on 18 कूच 1965 , the पहला स्वचालित लैंडिंग on another celestial  body in 1966 , and the launch of the first space station ( Salyut 1 ) in 1971 .
After the first 20 years of exploration , focus shifted from one-off flights to renewable hardware , such as  the स्पेस शटल कार्यक्रम , और इससे प्रतियोगिता to सहयोग  as with the International Space Station ( ISS ) .
With the substantial completion of the ISS following STS-133 in March 2011 ,  योजनाएँ लिये स्पेस खोजी  by the USA remain in flux .
Constellation , a Bush Administration program for a return to the Moon  by 2020 थी judged  inadequately funded and unrealistic by an expert review panel reporting in 2009 .
The Obama Administration proposed a revision of Constellation in 2010 to focus on the development of the  काबिलियत लिये crewed मिशन परे कम धरती कक्षा ( leo ) , envisioning extending the आपरेशन of the iss परे 2020 , transferring the विकास of लॉन्च  vehicles for human crews from NASA to the private sector , and developing technology to enable missions to beyond LEO , such as Earth/Moon L1 , the Moon , Earth/Sun L2 , near-earth asteroids , and Phobos or Mars orbit .
As of March 2011 , the US Senate  और हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  are still working towards a compromise NASA funding bill , which will probably terminate Constellation and fund development of a heavy lift launch vehicle ( HLLV ) .
In  the 2000s , the लोगों 's गणतंत्र of  China initiated a successful manned spaceflight program , while the European Union , Japan , and India have also planned future manned space missions .
China ,  रूस , जापानी , और इण्डिया have advocated मानवयुक्त  missions to the Moon during the 21st century , while the European Union has advocated manned missions to both the Moon and Mars during the 21st century .
From the 1990s onwards ,  निजी रूचि began promoting स्पेस पर्यटन और तब  private space exploration of the Moon ( see Google Lunar X Prize ) .
John Calvin Coolidge , Jr. ( July 4 ,  1872january 5  , 1933 ) was the 30th President of the United States ( 1923–1929 ) .
A Republican lawyer from Vermont ,  कूलिज worked उसके रास्ता up the सीढ़ियाँ of मैसाचुसेट्स  state politics , eventually becoming governor of that state .
His conduct during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust  उसे into the नेशनल स्पॉटलाइट और दिया  him a reputation as a man of decisive action .
Soon after , he was elected as the 29th Vice President in 1920 and succeeded to the Presidency upon the  अचानक मौत of वारेन G. हार्डिंग in  1923 .
Elected in his own  सही in 1924 , he gained  a reputation as a small-government conservative , and also as a man who said very little .
Coolidge restored public  विश्वास in the श्वेत हाउस बाद the  scandals of his predecessor 's administration , and left office with considerable popularity .
As a Coolidge biographer put it , `` He embodied the  स्पिरिट और उम्मीदें of the मध्य  class , could interpret their longings and express their opinions .
That he did represent the genius of the average is the most convincing  प्रमाण of उसके शक्ति  . ''
Some later criticized Coolidge  as भाग of a सामान्य आलोचना of  laissez-faire government .
His reputation underwent a renaissance during the Ronald Reagan Administration , but the  परम मूल्यांकन of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी is स्टिल विभाजित between those जो स्वीकृति of  his reduction of the size of government programs and those who believe the federal government should be more involved in regulating and controlling the economy .
Espresso is a concentrated beverage brewed by forcing a small amount of nearly boiling water  अंतर्गत दबाव through finely मैदान  coffee beans .
Espresso often has a thicker consistency than  कॉफी brewed by अन्य विधि , a उच्चतर  concentration of suspended and dissolved solids , and crema ( meaning cream , but being a reference to the foam with a creamy texture that forms as a result of the pressure ) .
As a result of the pressurized brewing process the flavors and chemicals  in a ठेठ  cup of espresso are very concentrated .
Espresso is the base for other drinks , such as a latte ,  कापुचीनो  , macchiato , mocha , or americano .
Espresso has more caffeine per unit volume than most beverages , but the usual serving size is smaller—a typical 60 mL ( 2 US fluid ounce ) of espresso has 80 to 150 mg of caffeine , little  less  than the 95 to 200 mg of a standard 240 mL ( 8 US fluid ounces ) cup of drip-brewed coffee .
Brian Keith Kelly (  born अक्तूबर 25 , 1961 ) is an अमरीकी  football coach and former player .
He is currently the head football coach for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish , a  स्थिति he रै  held since December 2009 .
Kelly was  previously सिर कोच at ग्रैंड घाटी  State University ( 1991–2003 ) , Central Michigan University ( 2004–2006 ) , and University of Cincinnati ( 2006–2009 ) .
A contract is an agreement having a lawful object entered into voluntarily by   two or more parties , each of whom intends to create one or more legal obligations between them .
The elements of a contract are `` offer '' and  `` स्वीकृति '' by `` competent व्यक्तियों  '' having legal capacity who exchange `` consideration '' to create `` mutuality of obligation . ''
Proof of some or all of these elements may  be किया in लिखने , हालांकि  contracts may be made entirely orally or by conduct .
The remedy for  उल्लंघन of अनुबंध can be `` क्षतिपूर्ति ''  in the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction .
Both of these remedies award the party at loss the ``  लाभ of the सौदेबाजी '' or अपेक्षा क्षतिपूर्ति , जिससे  are greater than mere reliance damages , as in promissory estoppel .
The parties may be natural persons or  juristic व्यक्तियों  .
A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or   will not occur .
The word promise  can be प्रयुक्त as a विधिक पर्याय लिये अनुबंध  , although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract , as when it is an agreement without consideration .
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another , including differences in common law compared to civil law , the impact of received  विधि , विशेषकर इससे इंग्लैण्ड in आम विधि  countries , and of law codified in regional legislation .
Regarding Australian Contract Law for example , there are 40 relevant acts which impact on the  निर्वचन of अनुबंध at the राष्ट्रमंडल ( संघीय / नेशनल )  level , and an additional 26 acts at the level of the state of NSW .
In addition there are 6 international instruments or conventions which are applicable  लिये अंतरराष्ट्रीय dealings , ऐसे as the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सम्मेलन on अनुबंध  for the International Sale of Goods .
Sidney Patrick Crosby , ONS ( born August 7 , 1987 ) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player who is  कप्तान of the पिट्सबर्ग penguins  of the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
Crosby was  drafted पहला overall  by the Penguins out of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League ( QMJHL ) .
During his two-year major junior career with the Rimouski Océanic , he earned back-to-back  chl खिलाड़ी of the साल पुरस्कार और led  his club to the 2005 Memorial Cup final .
Nicknamed `` The Next One `` , he was one of the most highly regarded draft  चयन in हॉकी इतिहास , अग्रणी अनेक to refer  to the 2005 Draft Lottery as the `` Sidney Crosby Sweepstakes '' .
In his first NHL season , Crosby finished sixth in league  स्कोरिंग साथ 102 अंक ( 39 लक्ष्य ,  63 assists ) and was a runner-up for the Calder Memorial Trophy ( won by Alexander Ovechkin ) .
By his second season , he led the NHL with 120 points (  36 लक्ष्य , 84 assists ) to कैप्चर  the Art Ross Trophy , becoming the youngest player and the only teenager to win a scoring title in any major North American sports league .
That same season , Crosby also won the Hart Memorial Trophy as the Professional Hockey  लेखक संघ 's चुनाव लिये सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी और the लेस्टर B. पियर्सन पुरस्कार as the एनएचएल खिलाड़ी संघ 's चुनाव  for most outstanding player , becoming the seventh player in NHL history to earn all three awards in one year .
Crosby started the 2007–08 season with the team 's captaincy and subsequently led them to the 2008  स्टेनली कप फाइनल , जहाँ वे यहूद पराजित by the डेट्रॉयट  Red Wings in six games .
The  penguins लौटे to the फाइनल विरूद्ध डेट्रॉयट  the following year and won in seven games ; Crosby became the youngest captain in NHL history to win the Stanley Cup .
In  the 2009–10 ऋतु  , Crosby scored a career-high 51 goals , tying him with Steven Stamkos for the Rocket Richard Trophy as the league-leader ; with 58 assists , he totaled 109 points , second in the NHL .
During  the off-season , crosby  received the Mark Messier Leadership Award .
In 2010–11 ,  crosby sustained a concussion as a  result of hits to the head in back-to-back games .
The injury  बाएँ उसे sidelined  for ten and a half months .
However , after playing eight games in the 2011–12 season , Crosby 's concussion-like symptoms returned in December 2011  , और he किया नहीं वापसी  until mid-March 2012 .
Internationally , Crosby has represented Canada in numerous  tournaments लिये the देश  's junior and men 's teams .
After competing in the 2003 U-18 Junior World Cup , he represented Canada in back-to-back  iihf संसार u20 championships , जीतना चांदी in 2004 और सुनहरा  in 2005 .
At the 2006 IIHF World Championship , he led the  टूर्नामेंट in स्कोरिंग , जबकि भी कमाई  Top Forward and All-Star Team honours .
Four years later ,  crosby थी नामित to टोली कनाडा  for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver .
Playing the United States in the gold  पदक खेल , he  scored the game-winning goal in overtime .
A United States cent , also  ज्ञात as a पैनी  .
`` My two cents '' ( 2¢ ) and its longer version `` put my  दो सेंट in '' is an संयुक्त  States ( US ) idiomatic expression , taken from the original English idiom expression : to put in `` my two pennies worth '' or `` my tuppence worth . ''
It is used to preface the tentative stating of  one’s राय  .
By deprecating the  राय to follow – suggesting इसके मान is तभी दो सेंट , a बहुत  small amount – the user of the phrase hopes to lessen the impact of a possibly statement , showing politeness and humility .
However , it is also sometimes used with  विडंबना जब expressing a strongly  felt opinion .
the phrase is  also used out of habit to preface uncontentious opinions .
लिये  example:
The Chinese Civil War was a civil war in China   fought between forces loyal to the government of the Republic of China led by the Kuomintang ( KMT ) and forces of the Communist Party of China ( CPC ) .
The war began in  अप्रैल 1927 , amidst the  Northern Expedition , and essentially ended when major active battles ceased in 1950 .
The conflict eventually resulted in two de facto states , the Republic of China ( ROC )  in ताईवान और the  People 's Republic of China ( PRC ) in mainland China , both claiming to be the legitimate government of China .
The war  represented an वैचारिक विभाजित ( बाएँ  vs . Right ) between the Communist CPC , and the KMT 's brand of Nationalism .
The civil war continued intermittently  जबतक लेट 1937 , जब  the two parties formed a Second United Front to counter a Japanese invasion .
China 's  full-scale सिविल  war resumed in 1946 , a year after the end of hostilities with Japan .
After four more years , 1950 saw the cessation of major military hostilities—with the newly founded People 's Republic of China controlling mainland China ( including Hainan ) , and the Republic of  चीन 's क्षेत्राधिकार होने प्रतिबंधित  to Taiwan , Penghu , Quemoy , Matsu and several outlying islands .
The  kuomintang शिकस्त is attributed to अनेक कारकों :  Corruption - Chiang wrote in his diary on June 1948 that the KMT had failed , not because of external enemies but because of rot from within .
Strong  आरंभिक support इससे  the U.S. diminished , and then , stopped .
( Partly because of KMT corruption and anti-democratic regime , and partly because of the uncertain U.S.  विदेशी नीति towards साम्यवादी between 1945 और 1950  ) ; Communist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords .
This ensured  pla लोकप्रिय  support .
After the surrender of Japan at the end of World War II , Soviet forces turned over their  captured जापानी हथियार to the cpc और अनुमत the cpc to लो कंट्रोल of territory  in Manchuria .
To this day , no armistice or peace treaty has  कभी महरूम हस्ताक्षरित , और it is debated  as to the whether the Civil War has legally ended .
Cross-Strait relations have been hindered by military threats and political and economic pressure , particularly  over ताईवान 's राजनैतिक औकात , साथ दोनो  governments officially adhering to a `` One-China policy . ''
The PRC still actively claims Taiwan  as भाग of इसके territory और continues to threaten  the ROC with a military invasion if the ROC officially declares independence by changing its name to and gaining international recognition as the Republic of Taiwan .
The ROC  mutually दावा मेनलैंड  China , and they both continue the fight over diplomatic recognition .
Today , the war as such occurs  on the राजनैतिक और आर्थिक  fronts in the form of cross-Strait relations ; however , the two separate de facto states have close economic ties .
The One Hundred Twelfth United States Congress was the meeting of the  विधान शाखा of the संयुक्त राज्य  federal government , from January 3 , 2011 until January 3 , 2013 .
It convened in  वॉशिंगटन , d.C. on जनवरी 3 , 2011 ,  and ended on January 3 , 2013 , 17 days before the end of the presidential term to which Barack Obama was elected in 2008 .
Senators elected to regular terms in 2006 completed those  शर्तें in इस कॉंग्रेस  .
This Congress included the last House of Representatives elected from congressional districts that were  apportioned आधारित on the 2000  census .
In  the 2010 मध्यावधि चुनावों  , the Republican Party won the majority in the House of Representatives .
While the Democrats kept their Senate majority , it was reduced from  the पिछला कॉंग्रेस  .
This was the first  कॉंग्रेस in जिससे the हाउस और सीनेट यहूद नियंत्रित by अलग  parties since the 107th Congress ( 2001–2003 ) , and the first Congress to begin that way since the 99th Congress ( 1985–1987 ) .
In this Congress , the House  of प्रतिनिधि था the largest क्रमांक  of Republican members , 242 , since the 80th Congress ( 1947–1949 ) .
It was also the first Congress since 1947 in which no member of the Kennedy family served , as well as the most politically polarized  कॉंग्रेस चूंकि पुनर्निर्माण , साथ रिकार्ड  low approval ratings .
Wealth in the United States is commonly measured in terms of net worth , which is the sum of all assets ,  सहित घर इक्विटी , ऋण सब देनदारी  .
The  कुल जाल लायक of us households और nonprofit  organizations 1945–2009 , unadjusted for inflation or population change .
For example , a household in possession of an $ 800,000 house , $ 5,000 in mutual  निधि  , $ 30,000 in cars , $ 20,000 worth of stock in their own company , and a $ 45,000 IRA would have assets totaling $ 900,000 .
Assuming that this household would have a $  250,000 बंधक , $ 40,000 in car लोन , और $ 10,000  in credit card debt , its debts would total $ 300,000 .
Subtracting the debts from the worth of this household 's assets ( 900,000 - $ 300,000 = $ 600,000 ) , this household would have a net  लायक of $ 600,000 .
Net worth can vary  साथ fluctuations  in value of the underlying assets .
The wealth —more specifically , the median net worth—of  households in the संयुक्त  States is varied with relation to race , education , geographic location and gender .
As one would expect , households with greater income feature the highest net worths , though high income can not  be लिया as an सदा  accurate indicator of net worth .
Overall the number of wealthier households  is on the वृद्धि  , with baby boomers hitting the highs of their careers .
In addition , wealth is unevenly distributed , with the wealthiest 25 % of US households owning 87 % of the wealth in the United States , which was $ 54.2  खरब in  2009 .
Including human capital such as skills , the United Nations  अनुमानित the कुल माल of the संयुक्त  States in 2008 to be $ 118 trillion .
This article deals with  चयनात्मक पृष्ठीय rhizotomy ( sdr ) बल्कि than the rhizotomy प्रक्रियाओं लिये पीड़ा राहत ; लिये those प्रक्रियाओं ,  which have begun to take the name `` rhizotomy '' in certain instances , see facet rhizotomy and similar .
A rhizotomy ( ) is a term chiefly referring to a neurosurgical procedure that selectively destroys problematic nerve roots in the spinal cord  , सबसे प्रायः to relieve the लक्षण  of neuromuscular conditions such as spastic diplegia and other forms of spastic cerebral palsy .
The selective dorsal rhizotomy ( SDR ) for spastic cerebral palsy has been the main use of rhizotomy for neurosurgeons specialising in spastic  cp चूंकि the 1980s ; in इस सर्जरी , the spasticity-causing nerves  are isolated and then targeted and destroyed .
The sensory nerve roots , where spasticity is located , are first separated from the motor ones , and the nerve fibres to be  काटें हैं तब पहचाना  via electromyographic stimulation .
The ones producing spasticity are then selectively  lesioned साथ छोटा  electrical pulses .
In spasticity , rhizotomy precisely targets and destroys the damaged  nerves कि don’t प्राप्त गामा अमीनो butyric एसिड , जिससे is  the core problem for people with spastic cerebral palsy .
These over-firing , non-GABA-absorbing nerves generate unusual electrical activity during the EMG testing phase in SDR and are thus considered to be the source of the patient 's hypertonia ; they are eliminated  साथ the विद्युत pulses एकबार पहचाना , जबकि the  remaining nerves and nerve routes carrying the correct messages remain fully intact and untouched .
This means that the spasticity is permanently dissolved , and that this is done without affecting nervous system sensitivity or function in other areas , because the  तभी nerves नष्ट हैं the over-firing ones जिम्मेदार  for the muscle tightness .
The  शर्तें rhizotomy और neurotomy  are also increasingly becoming interchangeable in the treatment of chronic back pain from degenerative disc disease .
इस is a कार्यविधि पुकारा a facet  rhizotomy and is not a surgical procedure but is instead done on an outpatient basis using a simple probe to apply radiofrequency waves to the impinged pain-causing nerve root lying between the facet joint and the vertebral body .
Such radio frequency nerve  lesioning परिणाम in पाँच to आठ or अधिक महीने of पीड़ा राहत  before the nerve regenerates and another round of the procedure needs to be performed .
A facet rhizotomy is just one of many  अलग फ़ॉर्म of radiofrequency ablation  , and its use of the `` rhizotomy '' name should not be confused with the SDR procedure .
migrant  workers in California , 1935
The  पद migrant कार्यकर्ता रै अलग  official meanings and connotations in different parts of the world .
The United Nations ' definition is broad ,  सहित कोई लोगों working बाहर  of their home country .
The term can also be  प्रयुक्त to describe किसी  who migrates within a country , possibly their own , in order to pursue work such as seasonal work .
Photograph of Lil  वेन  with teardrop tattoos below his eyes .
The teardrop  टैटू or आंसू टैटू is a  symbolic tattoo that is placed underneath the eye .
It has no fixed meaning but almost all meanings ( see below )  have कुछ कनेक्शन to थाना  .
U.S. Route 75 is a  north–south u.S.  Highway .
The highway 's northern terminus is in Kittson  काउंटी , मिनेसोटा , at the कनाडाई किनारा , जहाँ it एकबार  continued as Manitoba Highway 75 on the other side of the now-closed border crossing .
Its southern terminus is at Interstate 30 and Interstate 45 in Dallas , Texas , where it is known as North  सेंट्रल  Expressway .
U.S. 75 was a border-to-border route , from Canada to the Gulf of  मैक्सिको at galveston , टेक्सास  .
However , the entire segment south of Dallas , Texas has been decommissioned in favor of  अंतरराज्यीय 45 , a कटऑफ खण्ड of  town-to-town surface road having become State Highway 75 .
Lower Ninth Ward is a neighborhood  of the नगर of  New Orleans .
As the name implies  , it is भाग of  the Ninth Ward of New Orleans .
The Lower Ninth Ward is often thought of as the entire area within New Orleans downriver of the Industrial Canal ;  however , the  City Planning Commission divides this area into the Lower Ninth Ward ( 2 ) and Holy Cross ( 3 ) neighborhoods .
The term `` Lower '' refers to its location farther towards  the मुँह of the मिसिसिपी नदी , `` bas '' or `` नीचे  '' the rest of the city in local geographic terminology .
But the  9th वार्ड ,  like all Wards in New Orleans , is a voting district .
The 9th Ward was added as a  मतदान ज़िला  in 1852 .
The `` lower '' 9th Ward is composed of Ward 9 Districts 1 , 2 , 4 , and 7 which make up the Holy Cross Area  और वार्ड 9 जिले 3 , 5 , 6 , और  8 .
Higher voting district numbers in the 9th Ward ( 8-27 ) are on  the upriver पक्ष  of the Industrial Canal .
The area came to national attention for its devastation in the aftermath  of hurricane कैटरीना in  2005 .
Hubble views of Copernicus crater ( inset  ) , जिससे is परिचय 58 मील  ( 93 km ) wide
Red and orange tinted Moon , as seen from Earth  दौरान a चंद्र ग्रहण  , where the Earth comes between the Moon and Sun
The Moon is the only natural satellite of the Earth  , और the  fifth largest satellite in the Solar System .
It is the largest natural  उपग्रह of a ग्रह in the सौर प्रणाली सापेक्ष to the आकार  of its primary , having 27 % the diameter and 60 % the density of Earth , resulting in its mass .
The Moon is the second densest satellite after Io , a satellite  of  Jupiter .
The Moon is in synchronous rotation with Earth , always showing  the वही फेस साथ इसके निकट पक्ष  marked by dark volcanic maria that fill between the bright ancient crustal highlands and the prominent impact craters .
It is the brightest object in the sky after the Sun , although its surface is actually very  अंधेरा , साथ a reflectance समान to कि of कोयले  .
Its prominence in the sky and its regular cycle of phases have , since ancient times , made the Moon an  महत्वपूर्ण सांस्कृतिक influence on भाषा , पंचांग , आर्ट  and mythology .
The  Moon  's gravitational influence produces the ocean tides and the minute lengthening of the day .
The Moon 's current orbital distance , about thirty times the diameter of the Earth , causes it  to  appear almost the same size in the sky as the Sun , allowing it to cover the Sun nearly precisely in total solar eclipses .
This matching of apparent visual size is a  संयोग  .
The Moon 's linear distance from the Earth is currently increasing at a rate of  3.82±0.07cm प्रति साल , लकिन इस रेट  is not constant .
The Moon is thought to have  formed nearly 4.5 अरब सालो पहले  , not long after the Earth .
हालांकि वहीँ have महरूम अनेक hypotheses लिये इसके उत्पत्ति  in the past , the current most widely accepted explanation is that the Moon formed from the debris left over after a giant impact between Earth and a Mars -sized body .
The Moon is the  तभी celestial देह अन्य than  Earth on which humans have set foot .
The Soviet Union 's Luna programme was the first to reach the Moon with  unmanned spacecraft in 1959 ; the संयुक्त राज्य ' नासा अपोलो कार्यक्रम  achieved the only manned missions to date , beginning with the first manned lunar orbiting mission by Apollo 8 in 1968 , and six manned lunar landings between 1969 and 1972 , with the first being Apollo 11 .
These missions returned over 380 kg of lunar  रॉक्स , जिससे have महरूम प्रयुक्त to develop a geological समझना of the चंद्रमा  's origins , the formation of its internal structure , and its subsequent history .
After the Apollo 17 mission in 1972 , the Moon has been  visited तभी by unmanned  spacecraft , notably by the final Soviet Lunokhod rover .
Since 2004 ,  जापानी , चीन , इण्डिया ,  the United States , and the European Space Agency have each sent lunar orbiters .
These spacecraft have contributed to confirming the discovery of lunar water ice  in permanently shadowed craters at  the poles and bound into the lunar regolith .
भविष्य मानवयुक्त मिशन to the चंद्रमा  have been planned , including government as well as privately funded efforts .
The Moon remains , under the Outer Space Treaty , free  to सब राष्ट्र  to explore for peaceful purposes .
Ronald Wilson Reagan ( ; February 6 , 1911 –  जून 5 , 2004 ) थी the 40th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States ( 1981–1989 ) .
Prior to that , he was the 33rd Governor  of कैलिफ़ोर्निया (  1967–1975 ) , and a radio , film and television actor .
Born in Tampico , Illinois , and raised in Dixon , Reagan was  शिक्षित at यूरेका कॉलेज , कमाई a स्नातक of कला  degree in economics and sociology .
After graduating , Reagan moved first to Iowa to work as a radio broadcaster and then  , in 1937 , to लॉस एंजिल्स जहाँ he began a करियर  as an actor , first in films and later television .
Some of his most notable films include  knute rockne  , All American ( 1940 ) , Kings Row ( 1942 ) , and Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ) .
Reagan served as President of the Screen Actors Guild and later as a spokesman for  सामान्य इलेक्ट्रिक ( ge ) ; उसके प्रारंभ in राजनीती  occurred during his work for GE .
Originally a member of the Democratic Party , his positions  began shifting rightward in the 1950s , और he switched  to the Republican Party in 1962 .
After delivering a rousing speech in support of Barry Goldwater 's presidential candidacy in 1964 , he was persuaded to seek  the कैलिफ़ोर्निया governorship  , winning two years later and again in 1970 .
He was  पराजित in उसके चलाएं लिये the रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्षीय नामांकन in 1968  and in 1976 , but won both the nomination and general election in 1980 , defeating incumbent Jimmy Carter .
As president , Reagan  implemented sweeping नई  political and economic initiatives .
His supply-side economic policies , dubbed `` Reaganomics `` , advocated reducing tax rates to  spur आर्थिक विकास , controlling the धन सप्लाई  to reduce inflation , deregulation of the economy , and reducing government spending .
In his first term he survived an assassination  attempt , took a मुश्किल लकीर विरूद्ध मजदूर  unions , announced a new War on Drugs , and ordered an invasion of Grenada .
He was re-elected in a landslide in 1984 , proclaiming that it  थी `` morning  in America `` .
His second term was primarily marked by foreign matters , such as the ending of the Cold War , the  1986 bombing of लीबिया , और the रहस्योद्घाटन of the iran-contra  affair .
Publicly describing the Soviet Union as an `` evil empire `` , he supported anti-communist movements worldwide and spent his first term forgoing  the रणनीति of détente  by ordering a massive military buildup in an arms race with the USSR .
Reagan negotiated  साथ सोवियत सामान्य सचिव मिखाइल गोर्बाचेव  , culminating in the INF Treaty and the decrease of both countries ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan left  दफ्तर in 1989  .
In 1994 , the former president disclosed that he had been  diagnosed साथ अल्जाइमर 's बीमारी पहले in the साल  ; he died ten years later at the age of 93 .
A conservative icon , he ranks highly in public  राय पोल of u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों  and is credited for generating an ideological renaissance on the American political right .
Complete set of scrolls , constituting the  संपूर्ण tanakh  .
The Tanakh ( , or ; also Tenakh , Tenak , Tanach )  is a नाम प्रयुक्त in judaism  for the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The Tanakh is also known as the  masoretic टेक्स्ट or the miqra  .
The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text 's three traditional  subdivisions : the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '' , भी ज्ञात as the पाँच किताबे of मूसा ) , nevi'im  ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra '' ( מקרא ) , meaning `` that which is read  '' , is an वैकल्पिक यहूदी पद लिये  the Tanakh .
The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying  मौखिक परंपरा passed on by प्रत्येक  generation , called the Oral Torah .
the कावासाकी निंजा  ZX-6R is a Kawasaki 600 cc class sport motorcycle .
It was introduced in 1995 , and has been constantly updated throughout the years in response  to नई उत्पाद इससे होंडा , suzuki , और  Yamaha .
The ZX series is what was known as the Ninja  लकीर of कावासाकी मोटरसाइकिल  in the 1980s and still carries the name today .
Assassination  कोशिशें और भूखंड on राष्ट्रपतियों of the संयुक्त राज्य  have been numerous : more than 20 attempts to kill sitting and former presidents , as well as the Presidents-elect , are known .
Four sitting presidents have been killed : Abraham Lincoln ( the 16th President ) , James A. Garfield ( the 20th  अध्यक्ष ) , विलियम mckinley ( the 25th अध्यक्ष  ) and John F. Kennedy ( the 35th President ) .
Two presidents were injured in attempted assassinations : former  अध्यक्ष थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ( the 26th अध्यक्ष ) , और अध्यक्ष  Ronald Reagan ( the 40th President ) .
Although the historian J.W . Clarke has suggested that most American assassinations were politically motivated actions , carried out by rational men , not all such attacks have been undertaken for political  कारण  .
Some  हमलावर था questionable  mental stability , and a few were judged legally insane .
Since the Vice President of the United States has for more than a century been elected from the same  राजनैतिक पार्टी as the अध्यक्ष  , the assassination of the President is unlikely to result in major policy changes .
This may explain why political groups typically do not  मेक ऐसे हमले  .
Where the Red Fern Grows is a novel written by Wilson Rawls in 1961 about a boy who buys and trains two  redbone coonhound शिकार  dogs .
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee : Uukuhuúwa  , cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh ) is a  state located in West South Central United States .
Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive  और the 28th सबसे populous  of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma  , अर्थ `` रेड लोगों '' , और it is ज्ञात informally by इसके उपनाम  , The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of  ओक्लाहोमा territory और भारतीय territory  on November 16 , 1907 , Oklahoma was the 46th state to enter the union .
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or , informally `` Okies '' , and its  पूंजी और largest  city is Oklahoma City .
A major producer of natural gas , oil , and  कृषि , ओक्लाहोमा relies on an आर्थिक  base of aviation , energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest growing economies in the  स्वदेश , रैंकिंग among the शीर्ष राज्य  in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma 's primary economic anchors , with nearly two thirds  of oklahomans  living within their metropolitan statistical areas .
With small mountain ranges , prairie , mesas , and eastern  वनों , सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ in the ग्रेट मैदान और the u.s . आंतरिक हाइलैंड्स  —a region especially prone to severe weather .
In addition to having a  व्यापकता of अंग्रेज़ी , जर्मनी , स्कॉटिश  , Irish and Native American ancestry , more than 25 Native American languages are spoken in Oklahoma , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically  परोसा as a रूट लिये चौपायों ड्राइव , a गंतव्य लिये दक्षिणी settlers  , and a government-sanctioned territory for Native Americans .
Redwall , by Brian Jacques , is a series of  children 's काल्पनिक  novels .
It is the title of the first book of the series , published in 1986 , as well as the name of the Abbey featured in the book and the name of an animated TV series  आधारित on तीन of the novels ( redwall , mattimeo , और मार्टिन the योद्धा  ) , which first aired in 1999 .
The books are primarily aimed at older children , but  have प्रशंसक of सब  ages .
There have been twenty-two novels and two picture  किताबे प्रकाशित  .
The  twenty-second , और फाइनल , अनोखा  , The Rogue Crew , was posthumously released on May 3 , 2011 .
Natural Gas is usually  measured by आवाज़ in the संयुक्त राज्य  and is stated in cubic feet .
A cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas needed to fill a volume of one cubic foot under set conditions of pressure and temperature.To measure larger amounts of natural gas , a `` therm '' is used to  denote 100 घन फीट , और `` mcf '' is प्रयुक्त to denote  1,000 cubic feet .
To  provide वृहद सटीकता in comparing  fuels , energy content is measured in terms of `` British Thermal Units ( BTU 's ) . ''
A  btu is the राशि of  heat required to raise one pound of water ( approximately a pint ) , one degree Fahrenheit at or close to its point of maximum density .
One British therm  ( प्रतीक thm ) is a non- si  unit of heat energy equal to 100,000 British thermal units ( BTU ) .
it is लगभग the उर्जा समतुल्य  of burning 100 cubic feet ( often referred to as 1 CCF ) of natural gas .
Since ( Natural Gas ) meters measure volume  और नहीं  energy content , a therm factor is used by ( Natural ) gas companies to convert the volume of gas used to its heat equivalent , and thus calculate the actual energy use .
The therm factor is  प्रायः in the इकाई  therms/CCF .
It will vary with the mix of hydrocarbons in the  प्राकृतिक  gas .
Natural gas with a higher than average  विशेषज्ञता of  ethane , propane or butane will have a higher therm factor .
Impurities , such as carbon dioxide or nitrogen ,  निम्नतर the therm  factor .
The volume of the gas is  गणना as if measured at मानक  temperature and pressure ( STP ) .
The heat content of natural gas is  solely निर्भर on the संयोजन  of the gas , and is independent of temperature and pressure .
One therm is equal to about 105.5 megajoules , 25,200  kilocalories or 29.3 kilowatt-hours  .
One  therm can  also be provided by about of natural gas .
The therm sometimes has been  उलझन साथ  the thermie ( see below ) .
The names of both units  आइये इससे the यूनानी शब्द लिये ऊष्मा  .
A thermie ( th ) is a metric unit of heat energy , part of the meter-tonne-second  प्रणाली sometimes प्रयुक्त  by European engineers .
The thermie is equal to the  राशि of उर्जा जरूरी to उठाएँ the तापमान  of 1 tonne of water by 1 °C .
The thermie is equivalent to 1,000 kilocalories ,  4.1868 megajoules or 3968.3 btu .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and  formed the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका ( the `` confederacy  '' or the `` South '' ) .
the युद्ध था इसके  origin in the issue of slavery , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers  किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and  guaranteeing अधिकारों to the freed स्लेव began  .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United  राज्य ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven  cotton-based  slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing  लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन  and the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his  प्रशासन होता नहीं initiate  civil war .
आठ बाकी स्लेव राज्य  continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous  संघीय दुर्गों भीतर  territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed  to ढूँढें  a compromise , and both sides prepared for war .
The  confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद so  dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by  संघ सैनिकों in दक्षिण  Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ;  नतीजतन , चार अधिक स्लेव राज्य joined the confederacy  , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states  और स्थापित  a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The  पूर्वी थिएटर  was inconclusive in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of  antietam , dissuading अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप  .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति  slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy , then much of their western armies , and  the संघ at vicksburg विभाजित the confederacy in दो at the मिसिसिपी  River .
In  1863 , रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate  incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western  सफलताओं  led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove  ईस्ट to कैप्चर अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र , destroying confederate  infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford  to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland  Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at  appomattox  Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of  the earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads  , the टेलीग्राफ , steamships  , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian  कारखानों , खानों , shipyards , बैंको  , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an  undetermined क्रमांक of civilian हताहत  .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all  उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30 प्रतिशत of  all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
William Bruce Jenner ( born October 28 , 1949 )  is a पूर्व u.S. track और फ़ील्ड खिलाड़ी , प्रेरक स्पीकर ,  socialite , television personality and businessman .
He won  the सुनहरा पदक लिये decathlon  in the Montreal 1976 Summer Olympics .
Following his Olympic win and the related recognition , he married Kris  कार्दशियन , और उसके पेशेवर करियर  evolved into being a television celebrity .
By 1981 , he had starred in several made-for-TV movies and was Erik Estrada 's  बदलना on the शीर्ष रेटेड tv श्रेणी  CHiPs .
he रै  six children : Burt , Casey , Brandon , Brody , Kendall and Kylie .
Since his 1991 marriage to Kris Jenner , he is the stepfather to  कोर्टनी , किम , khloe और रोब  Kardashian .
Since 2007 , he has appeared  साथ उसके blended  family on Keeping Up with the Kardashians .
Escherichia coli ( ; commonly abbreviated E. coli ) is a Gram-negative  , rod-shaped bacterium कि is commonly मिला  in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms ( endotherms ) .
Most E. coli strains are harmless , but some  serotypes can कारण गंभीर खाना  poisoning in humans , and are occasionally responsible for product recalls due to food contamination .
The harmless strains  हैं भाग of the सामान्य फ्लोरा of the आंत , और can लाभ उनके  hosts by producing vitamin K2 , and by preventing the establishment of pathogenic bacteria within the intestine .
E. coli and related bacteria constitute about 0.1 % of gut flora , and fecal–oral transmission is the major route through  जिससे रोगजनक strains of the bacterium  cause disease .
कोशिकाएं हैं समर्थ to जीवित बाहर the  body for a limited amount of time , which makes them ideal indicator organisms to test environmental samples for fecal contamination .
There is , however , a growing body of research that has examined environmentally persistent E. coli which can survive for extended periods  बाहर of the  host .
The bacterium can also be grown easily and inexpensively in a laboratory setting , and has been  intensively investigated लिये  over 60 years .
E. coli is the most widely  पढ़ाई prokaryotic मॉडल सजीव , और an महत्वपूर्ण प्रजाति  in the fields of biotechnology and microbiology , where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA .
Area code 217  is the उत्तर अमरीकी टेलीफोन  area code for much of western and central Illinois .
The 217 area includes Illinois ' capital , Springfield , plus Champaign ,  urbana , decatur , danville  , Quincy , and Rantoul .
217 थी एक  of the original area codes , which were created in 1947 .
The only significant change in 217 's boundaries was in 1957 , when its northern portion was combined  साथ भाग of क्षेत्रफल कोड  815 to form area code 309 .
Image of the largest Antarctic ozone hole ever recorded ( September  2006 ) , over  the Southern pole
परतों of the माहौल  ( not to scale )
Ozone  depletion describes दो पृथक लकिन सम्बन्धित phenomena  observed since the late 1970s : a steady decline of about 4 % per decade in the total volume of ozone in Earth 's stratosphere ( the ozone layer ) , and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone over Earth 's polar regions .
The latter phenomenon is referred  to as the ओज़ोन छेद  .
In addition to  ये well-known stratospheric phenomena  , there are also springtime polar tropospheric ozone depletion events .
The details of polar ozone  छेद गठन differ इससे कि of mid-latitude thinning  , but the most important process in both is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens .
The  प्रमुख सोर्स  of these halogen atoms in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants ( CFCs , freons , halons ) .
These compounds are  transported into the stratosphere  after being emitted at the surface .
Both types of ozone depletion  यहूद observed to बढ़ाएँ  as emissions of halo-carbons increased .
cfcs और अन्य contributory substances  are referred to as ozone-depleting substances ( ODS ) .
Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths ( 280–315 nm ) of ultraviolet light ( UV light ) from passing through the Earth 's atmosphere , observed and  प्रक्षिप्त decreases in ओज़ोन have उत्पन्न  worldwide concern leading to adoption of the Montreal Protocol that bans the production of CFCs , halons , and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane .
It is suspected that a variety of biological  consequences ऐसे as increases in स्किन कर्कट , cataracts , क्षति to पौधे , और कटौती of  plankton populations in the ocean 's photic zone may result from the increased UV exposure due to ozone depletion .
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a brief  परिचयात्मक बयान of the  Constitution 's fundamental purposes and guiding principles .
It  राज्य in सामान्य शर्तें , और न्यायालयों have referred to it as विश्वसनीय प्रमाण of , the  Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's meaning and what they hoped the Constitution would achieve as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the  लोगों of the संयुक्त  States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual rights and equality among all people ; this can be seen most broadly in the divide between republicanism and social democracy .
czechoslovakian शॉट putter  Plihan at the 1957 East German Indoor Athletics Championships
The shot put ( pronounced ) is a track and field event involving `` throwing '' / '' putting '' ( throwing in a  pushing गति ) a भारी गोलाकार  object —the shot—as far as possible .
The shot put competition for men has been a part of the modern Olympics  चूंकि उनके पुनरुद्धार in 1896 , महिलाओं  's competition began in 1948 .
Map of the United Nations ( UN ) member states , with their territories  ( सहित निर्भर territories  ) recognized by the UN in blue
There are United Nations ( UN ) member states , and each of them is a member  of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र सामान्य सभा  .
The criteria for admission of new members are set out in  the संयुक्त  Nations Charter , Chapter II , Article 4:
A recommendation for  प्रवेश  from the Security Council requires affirmative votes from at least nine of the council 's fifteen members , with none of the five permanent members voting against .
The Security Council 's  अनुशंसा  must then be subsequently approved in the General Assembly by a two-thirds majority vote .
In principle , only sovereign states can become UN members , and currently all UN members are sovereign states ( although a few members  यहूद नहीं sovereign जब वे joined the  UN ) .
Because a state can only be admitted to the UN by the approval of the Security Council and the General Assembly , a number of  राज्य कि may be माना sovereign राज्य according to the  Montevideo Convention criteria are not members because the UN does not consider them to possess sovereignty , mainly due to the lack of international recognition or opposition from certain members .
In addition to the member states , the UN also invites non-member states ( currently two : the Holy See and Palestine ) , intergovernmental organizations , and other  अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन और entities जिनकी statehood or प्रभुता हैं नहीं precisely पारिभाषित , to become observers  at the General Assembly , allowing them to participate and speak , but not vote , in General Assembly meetings .
The Eiffel Tower ( , ) is an iron  जाली मीनार स्तिथ on  the Champ de Mars in Paris , named after the engineer Gustave Eiffel , whose company designed and built the tower .
Erected in 1889 as the entrance arch to the 1889 World 's Fair , it has  become दोनो a वैश्विक सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक of फ़्रांस और  one of the most recognizable structures in the world .
The tower is the tallest structure in Paris and the most-visited paid  स्मारक in the संसार ; 7.1 लाख  people ascended it in 2011 .
The third level observatory 's upper platform is at the highest accessible to public in the European Union and the highest in  यूरोपीय as long as the मंच of the ostankino  Tower , at , remains closed as a result of the fire of August 2000 .
The tower received its  250 millionth आगंतुक  in 2010 .
The  मीनार स्टैंड लम्बा , परिचय  the same height as an 81-storey building .
During  इसके निर्माण , the एफिल  Tower surpassed the Washington Monument to assume the title of the tallest man-made structure in the world , a title it held for 41 years , until the Chrysler Building in New York City was built in 1930 .
Because of  the जोड ,  in 1957 , of the antenna atop the Eiffel Tower , it is now taller than the Chrysler Building .
Not including broadcast antennas , it is the second-tallest  ढांचा in फ़्रांस , बाद the millau  Viaduct .
The tower has  तीन स्तर  for visitors .
Tickets can be purchased to ascend ,  by सीढ़ियाँ or लिफ्ट ( लिफ्ट  ) , to the first and second levels .
The walk from  मैदान स्तर  to the first level is over 300 steps , as is the walk from the first to the second level .
The third and highest level is  accessible तभी  by lift—stairs do exist but are usually closed to the public .
the पहला और  second levels have restaurants .
The tower has  become the सबसे prominent  symbol of both Paris and France , often in the establishing shot of films set in the city .
Kenneth Wayne `` Ken '' Jennings III ( born May 23 , 1974 ) is an  अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ प्रतियोगी  and author .
Jennings is noted for holding the record for the longest winning streak on  the u.S. syndicated  game show Jeopardy !
और as होने the all-time  leading money winner on American game shows .
In 2004 , Jennings  जीती 74 jeopardy  !
games before he was  पराजित by चैलेंजर  Nancy Zerg on his 75th appearance .
His  कुल आय on  Jeopardy !
are $  3,172,700 , consisting  of $ 2,520,700 over his 74 wins , a $ 2,000 second-place prize in his 75th appearance , a $ 500,000 second-place prize in the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of  champions , as खूब as हाफ of a $ 300,000  prize in the IBM Challenge .
During his first  चलाएं of jeopardy  !
appearances , Jennings earned the record for the highest  अमरीकी खेल दिखाएँ winnings .
His total was surpassed by Brad Rutter , who defeated Jennings  in the फाइनल  of the Jeopardy !
Ultimate Tournament of Champions ( first aired on May 25  , 2005 ) , adding  $ 2,000,000 to Rutter 's existing Jeopardy !
winnings  .
Jennings regained the record  बाद appearing on अनेक  other game shows , culminating in an appearance on Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader ?
( first  aired on अक्तूबर 10  , 2008 ) , though Rutter retains the Jeopardy !
रिकार्ड  .
After his success on Jeopardy ! , Jennings wrote about his experience and explored American trivia history and culture in his  किताब brainiac : adventures in the जिज्ञासु  , Competitive , Compulsive World of Trivia Buffs , published in 2006 .
The Canadian Football League or CFL ( ' [ LCF ] in  फ्रेंच ) is a पेशेवर खेल  league located in Canada .
the cfl is the उच्चतम स्तर of प्रतियोगिता  in Canadian football , a form of gridiron football closely related to American football .
Its eight current  टीमों , जिससे हैं स्तिथ in आठ पृथक  cities , are divided into two divisions of four teams each — the East Division and the West Division .
The league 's 19-week regular season runs from late  जून to जल्दी नवम्बर ; प्रत्येक  team plays 18 games with one bye week .
Following the regular season , the three teams with the best records in their division ( except if the fourth place team in one division has a better record than the third place team in the other division , when the team with the better record makes the  playoffs और `` crosses over '' to the अन्य प्रभाग 's  playoff ) compete in the league 's three-week divisional playoffs , which culminate in the late-November Grey Cup championship , the country 's largest annual sports and television event .
The CFL was officially founded on January 19  , 1958 , बनाना it the दूसरी oldest  gridiron football league in North America still in operation , although all its teams long predate the modern formation of the league .
It is the highest level of play in Canadian football , the most popular football league in Canada , and the second-most  लोकप्रिय प्रमुख खेल लीग in कनाडा , बाद the नेशनल  Hockey League .
Although ice hockey is Canada 's most popular sport , the CFL has increased the  लोकप्रियता of कनाडाई फ़ुटबॉल in क्यूबेक और पश्चिमी  Canada .
Canadian football is also played at amateur levels ( i.e . youth , high school , CJFL , QJFL , CIS  और वरिष्ठ लीग ऐसे as the अलबर्टा फ़ुटबॉल  League ) .
The 2010s will be a significant decade for the CFL in terms of growth ,  as टीमों have संवर  , expanded stadiums , or plan to build entirely new stadiums .
the मॉन्ट्रियल अलॉतेस संपन्नता इस  first , adding 5,000 seats to Percival Molson Memorial Stadium in time for the 2010 CFL season .
The Edmonton Eskimos and Calgary Stampeders also renovated their respective stadiums  और सुविधाएं लिये the 2010  season .
In 2011 , the BC Lions played under a new , retractable roof in BC Place after  बिता एक और a हाफ सीज़न  at Empire Field .
Then the Winnipeg Blue Bombers will play in an entirely new  स्टेडियम at the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Manitoba , scheduled to open in time for the 2013 season .
The Hamilton Tiger-Cats , Saskatchewan  roughriders और the नई ओटावा  franchise are also looking at new or extensively-renovated stadiums in the following years .
There are also hopes of expanding the   league to Atlantic Canada ( ideally basing a team in either the more populated Halifax , or the more centralized Moncton ) , as 2010 and 2011 had regular season games hosted in Moncton .
According to sports historian Douglas Brei , the Canadian Football League holds the distinction of being the only professional sports league in North America  , प्रमुख or नाबालिग लीग , in जिससे प्रत्येक  existing franchise has won at least one league title while in their current location .
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen ; an interaction similar to a lock and   key .
An antibody ( Ab ) ,  भी ज्ञात as an immunoglobulin ( ig ) , is a विशाल  Y-shaped protein produced by B-cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects such as bacteria and viruses .
The antibody recognizes a unique part of  the विदेशी निशाना , पुकारा  an antigen .
Each tip of the `` Y  '' of an एंटीबॉडी contains a paratope ( a ढांचा analogous  to a lock ) that is specific for one particular epitope ( similarly analogous to a key ) on an antigen , allowing these two structures to bind together with precision .
Using this binding mechanism , an antibody can tag a microbe or an infected cell for attack by other parts of the immune system , or  can neutralize इसके  target directly ( for example , by blocking a part of a microbe that is essential for its invasion and survival ) .
The production of antibodies is the main function of the humoral  प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली  .
Antibodies are secreted by a type  of श्वेत रक्त कोशिका  called a plasma cell .
Antibodies can occur in two physical forms , a soluble form that is secreted from the cell , and a membrane -bound form that is attached to  the सतह of a  B cell and is referred to as the B cell receptor ( BCR ) .
The BCR is only found on the surface of B cells and facilitates the activation of  ये कोशिकाएं और उनके subsequent differentiation  into either antibody factories called plasma cells , or memory B cells that will survive in the body and remember that same antigen so the B cells can respond faster upon future exposure .
In most cases ,  बातचीत of the b  cell with a T helper cell is necessary to produce full activation of the B cell and , therefore , antibody generation following antigen binding .
Soluble antibodies are released into the blood and tissue fluids , as well as many secretions  to continue to सर्वेक्षण लिये आक्रमणकारी microorganisms  .
Antibodies are glycoproteins belonging to  the immunoglobulin superfamily ;  the terms antibody and immunoglobulin are often used interchangeably .
Antibodies are  typically बना of मौलिक संरचनात्मक  units—each with two large heavy chains and two small light chains .
There are several  अलग प्रकार  of antibody heavy chains , and several different kinds of antibodies , which are grouped into different isotypes based on which heavy chain they possess .
Five different antibody isotypes are known in mammals , which perform different  भूमिकाएँ , और सहायता  direct the appropriate immune response for each different type of foreign object they encounter .
Though the general structure of all antibodies is very similar , a small region at the tip of the protein is extremely variable , allowing  लाखो of antibodies साथ थोड़ा अलग टिप structures  , or antigen binding sites , to exist .
This region is known  as the hypervariable  region .
Each of these variants can  bind to  a different antigen .
This enormous  विविधता of antibodies  allows the immune system to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens .
The large and diverse population of  antibodies  is generated by random combinations of a set of gene segments that encode different antigen binding sites ( or paratopes ) , followed by random mutations in this area of the antibody gene , which create further diversity .
Antibody genes also re-organize in a process called class switching that changes the base of the heavy chain to another , creating a different isotype of the  एंटीबॉडी कि retains the प्रतिजन विशिष्ट परिवर्तनीय प्रदेश  .
This allows a  सिंगल एंटीबॉडी  to be used by several different parts of the immune system .
The symbol used by the Zodiac Killer to sign his  पत्राचार
The Zodiac Killer was a serial killer who operated in Northern  कैलिफ़ोर्निया in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी  1970s .
The killer 's  पहचान remains  unknown .
The Zodiac murdered victims  in benicia  , Vallejo , Lake Berryessa , and San Francisco between December 1968 and October 1969 .
Four men and three women between the ages of 16  और 29 यहूद  targeted .
The killer originated the name `` Zodiac ''  in a श्रेणी of taunting अक्षर भेजा to  the local Bay Area press .
These letters included four cryptograms  ( or ciphers )  .
Of  the चार cryptograms  sent , only one has been definitively solved .
Suspects have been named by law enforcement and  amateur जांचकर्ताओं , लकिन no  conclusive evidence has surfaced .
In  अप्रैल 2004 , the सैन फ्रांसिस्को पुलिस विभाग  marked the case `` inactive '' , yet re-opened the case at some point prior to March 2007 .
The case also remains open in the  नगर of vallejo , as खूब as in नापा  County and Solano County .
the कैलिफ़ोर्निया विभाग  of Justice has maintained an open case file on the Zodiac murders since 1969 .
Jennings is a small city in and the parish seat of Jefferson Davis Parish , Louisiana  , संयुक्त राज्य , निकट झील चार्ल्स  .
The population was 10,383 at the 2010 census , a small decline  इससे  the 2000 tabulation .
The city is 68 percent  श्वेत  .
Jennings is the principal city of the Jennings Micropolitan Statistical Area , which includes all  of जेफरसन डेविस  Parish .
It is also part of the larger Lake Charles-Jennings  संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल  .
Nanotechnology (  sometimes shortened to `` nanotech '' ) is the  manipulation of matter on an atomic and molecular scale .
The earliest , widespread description of nanotechnology referred to  the particular technological  goal of precisely manipulating atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products , also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology .
A more generalized description of nanotechnology was subsequently established by the National Nanotechnology Initiative , which defines  nanotechnology as the हेरफेर of पदार्थ साथ at तनिक एक आयाम sized  from 1 to 100 nanometers .
This definition reflects the fact that quantum mechanical effects are important at this quantum-realm scale , and so the  परिभाषा shifted इससे a particular technological लक्ष्य to a शोध  category inclusive of all types of research and technologies that deal with the special properties of matter that occur below the given size threshold .
It is therefore common to see the plural form `` nanotechnologies ''  as खूब as `` nanoscale technologies '' to refer to the व्यापक दायरा of शोध और  applications whose common trait is size .
Because of the variety of potential applications ( including industrial  और सैन्य ) , सरकारें have  invested billions of dollars in nanotechnology research .
Through its National Nanotechnology  पहल , the  USA has invested 3.7 billion dollars .
The European Union has  invested 1.2 अरब और  Japan 750 million dollars .
Nanotechnology as  पारिभाषित by आकार is naturally  very broad , including fields of science as diverse as surface science , organic chemistry , molecular biology , semiconductor physics , microfabrication , etc .
The associated research and  अनुप्रयोग हैं बराबर विविध , ranging इससे एक्सटेंशन of conventional यंत्र भौतिकी to completely नई approaches आधारित upon  molecular self-assembly , from developing new materials with dimensions on the nanoscale to direct control of matter on the atomic scale .
Scientists currently  बहस the भविष्य implications  of nanotechnology .
nanotechnology may be समर्थ to बनाएँ अनेक नई सामग्री और डिवाइस  with a vast range of applications , such as in medicine , electronics , biomaterials and energy production .
On the other hand , nanotechnology raises many of the same issues as any  नई प्रौद्योगिकी , सहित चिंताएं परिचय the toxicity और पर्यावरणीय प्रभाव of nanomaterials  , and their potential effects on global economics , as well as speculation about various doomsday scenarios .
These concerns have led to a debate  among वकालत  groups and governments on whether special regulation of nanotechnology is warranted .
Map  of the पूर्वी  Bloc
The term  पूर्वी bloc or कम्युनिस्ट bloc refers to the पूर्व  communist states of Central and Eastern Europe , generally the Soviet Union and the countries of the Warsaw Pact .
The terms Communist Bloc and  सोवियत bloc यहूद भी प्रयुक्त to denote  groupings of states aligned with the Soviet Union , although these terms might include states outside Central and Eastern Europe .
The New Jersey gubernatorial election of 2009 took place on  नवम्बर  3 , 2009 .
Democratic Governor Jon Corzine was running for a second term  और थी होने challenged  by Republican Chris Christie , Independent Christopher Daggett and nine others , in addition to several write-in candidates .
Christie won the election , with about 48.5 percent of the vote  , to 44.9  percent for Corzine and 5.8 percent for Daggett .
Christie won the largest margin for  a पहला पद रिपब्लिकन चूंकि  1969 .
Christie assumed office on  जनवरी 19 , 2010  .
This was  the पहला चुनाव  to fill the newly created office of Lieutenant Governor .
The candidates for governor and lieutenant  राज्यपाल यहूद joined साथ as a सिंगल चुनाव , so  that voters did not have the opportunity to split the ticket .
Kim Guadagno , Christie 's  कार्यशील mate , became  New Jersey 's first lieutenant governor following her inauguration .
Health care in the United States is provided by  अनेक पृथक संगठन .
Health care facilities are largely owned and operated by private sector  व्यवसायों  .
Health insurance for public sector  कर्मचारी is primarily  provided by the government .
60-65 % of healthcare provision and spending comes from programs such as Medicare , Medicaid , TRICARE , the Children 's  स्वास्थ्य बीमे कार्यक्रम , और the दिग्गजों स्वास्थ्य प्रशासन  .
Most of  the जनसांख्यिकी अंतर्गत 65 is insured  by their or a family member 's employer , some buy health insurance on their own , and the remainder are uninsured .
Of 17 high-income countries studied by the National Institutes of Health in 2013 , the United States was at or near  the नीचे in शिशु मृत्यु  , heart and lung disease , sexually transmitted infections , adolescent pregnancies , injuries , homicides , and rates of disability .
Together , such issues place the  u.S. at the नीचे  of the list for life expectancy .
On average , a U.S. male can be  अपेक्षित to सजीव लगभग चार  fewer years than those in the top-ranked country .
According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the United States spent more on  स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रति capita ( $ 7,146 ) , और अधिक on स्वास्थ्य परवाह as प्रतिशत  of its GDP ( 15.2 % ) , than any other nation in 2008 .
The Commonwealth Fund ranked the United  राज्य पिछला in the विशेषता of स्वास्थ्य परवाह among समान  countries , and notes U.S. care costs the most .
The U.S. Census Bureau reported that 49.9 million residents , 16.3 % of the population , were  uninsured in 2010 ( up इससे  49.0 million residents , 16.1 % of the population , in 2009 ) .
A 2004 Institute of Medicine ( IOM )  रपट कहा : `` the संयुक्त राज्य is among the few industrialized  nations in the world that does not guarantee access to health care for its population . ''
A 2004 OECD report said : `` With the exception of Mexico , Turkey , and the United States , all OECD countries had achieved universal or near-universal ( at least  98.4 % insured ) कवरेज  of their populations by 1990 . ''
A 2010 report observed that lack of health insurance  कल्याणकारी roughly 48,000 अनावश्यक  deaths every year in the United States .
In 2007 , 62.1 % of filers  लिये  bankruptcies claimed high medical expenses .
A 2013  पढ़ाई मिला कि परिचय 25 % of सब  senior citizens declare bankruptcy due to medical expenses , and 43 % are forced to mortgage or sell their primary residence .
On March 23 , 2010 , the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA  ) became विधि , providing  for major changes in health insurance .
In physiology , body water is the water  सामग्री of the इंसान  body .
A significant fraction of the  इंसान देह is जल  .
Arthur Guyton 's Textbook of Medical Physiology states that `` the total amount of water in a man of average weight (  70 गामा ) is लगभग 40 लीटर , averaging 57 प्रतिशत of  his total body weight .
In a newborn infant , this may be as high as 75  प्रतिशत of the देह वज़न , लकिन it progressively decreases  from birth to old age , most of the decrease occurring during the first 10 years of life .
Also , obesity decreases the percentage of water in the body , sometimes to  as  low as 45 percent '' .
These figures are statistical averages , so are illustrative , and  जैसे सब biostatistics  , will vary with things like type of population , age and number of people sampled , and methodology .
So there is not , and can not be , a figure that is exactly the same for all people ,  लिये इस or कोई अन्य physiological  measure .
For example , Jackson 's ( 1985 ) Anatomy &  physiology लिये नर्स देता a फिगर of 60 % लिये the proportion of body-weight  attributable to water , which approximates Guyton 's 57 % .
In  diseased राज्य जहाँ देह जल is प्रभावित , the कम्पार्टमेंट or compartments  that have changed can give clues to the nature of the problem .
Body water is regulated by hormones ,  सहित anti-diuretic  hormone ( ADH ) , aldosterone and atrial natriuretic peptide .
Per  netter 's एटलस  of Human Physiology , body water is broken down into the following compartments:
intracellular द्रव  ( 2/3 of body water ) .
Per Guyton , in a body  containing 40 लीटर of द्रव  , about 25 litres is intracellular , which amounts to 62.5 % ( 5/8 ) , close enough to the 2/3 rule of thumb .
जैक्सन 's  texts states 70 % of body fluid is intracellular .
extracellular  fluid ( 1/3 of body water ) .
Per Guyton 's  उदाहरण , लिये a 40 लीटर देह  , about 15 litres is extracellular , which amounts to 37.5 % Again , this is close to the 1/3 rule of thumb cited here .
प्लाज्मा (  1/5 of extracellular fluid ) .
Per Guyton 's  उदाहरण , of the 15  litres of extracellular fluid , plasma volume averages 3 litres .
This amounts to  20 % , the वही  as per Netter 's Atlas .
Interstitial fluid ( 4/5 of  extracellular द्रव  )
Transcellular  द्रव ( a.k.a .  `` third space , '' normally ignored in calculations )
contained अंदर अंगों  , such as the gastrointestinal , cerebrospinal , peritoneal , and ocular fluids .
Self-esteem is a term used in psychology to reflect a person 's overall  emotional मूल्यांकन of उसके or उसके अपना लायक  .
It is a  निर्णय of oneself  as well as an attitude toward the self .
Self-esteem encompasses beliefs ( for example , `` I am competent , '' `` I am worthy '' ) and  भाव ऐसे as triumph , despair , अभिमान और  shame .
Smith and Mackie define it by saying `` The self-concept is what we think about the self ; self-esteem , is the  धनात्मक or ऋणात्मक evaluations of the स्वः , as in  how we feel about it . ''
self-esteem is भी ज्ञात as the evaluative आयाम  of the self that includes feelings of worthiness , prides and discouragement .
One 's self-esteem is  भी closely संबद्ध  with self-consciousness .
Self-esteem is a disposition that a person has which represents their judgements  of उनके  own worthiness .
In the mid-1960s , Morris Rosenberg and social-learning  पैरोकार पारिभाषित  self-esteem as a personal worth or worthiness .
Nathaniel Branden  in 1969 पारिभाषित self-esteem as  `` the experience of being competent to cope with the basic challenges of life and being worthy of happiness . ''
According to Branden , self-esteem is the sum of self-confidence ( a  अहसास of निजी  capacity ) and self-respect ( a feeling of personal worth ) .
It exists as a consequence of the implicit judgement that every person has of  उनके क्षमता to फेस जीवन 's  challenges , to understand and solve problems , and their right to achieve happiness , and be given respect .
As a social psychological construct ,  self-esteem is आकर्षक क्युकी शोधकर्ताओं have conceptualized  it as an influential predictor of relevant outcomes , such as academic achievement ( Marsh 1990 ) or exercise behavior ( Hagger et al . 1998 ) .
In addition , self-esteem has  भी महरूम treated as an महत्वपूर्ण निष्कर्ष  due to its close relation with psychological well-being ( Marsh 1989 ) .
Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension ( for example , `` I believe I am a good writer and I feel happy about that '' ) or a global extent ( for example , `` I believe I am a bad person , and feel bad about myself in  सामान्य  '' ) .
Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic (  `` trait '' self-esteem ) , हालांकि सामान्य ,  short-term variations ( `` state '' self-esteem ) also exist .
Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem include :  self-worth , self-regard ,  self-respect , and self-integrity .
A Masonic Lodge , often termed a Private Lodge or Constituent Lodge ,  is the मौलिक organisational  unit of Freemasonry .
Every new Lodge must be warranted or chartered by a Grand Lodge , but is subject to its  दिशा तभी in enforcing the प्रकाशित संविधान of  the jurisdiction .
By exception the three surviving lodges that formed the  संसार 's पहला ज्ञात ग्रैंड आवास in लंदन ( आज पुकारा the संयुक्त ग्रैंड आवास of इंग्लैण्ड ) have the अद्वितीय विशेषाधिकार  to operate as time immemorial i.e . without such warrant ; only one other lodge operates without a warrant - this is the Grand Stewards ' Lodge in London , although it is not also entitled to the `` time immemorial '' title .
A  freemason is  generally entitled to visit any Lodge , in any jurisdiction ( i.e . under any Grand Lodge ) in amity with his own .
In some jurisdictions this  विशेषाधिकार is प्रतिबंधित to निपुण masons ( कि is  , Freemasons who have attained the Order 's third degree ) .
He is first usually required to check , and certify , the regularity of the relationship of the Lodge - and be able to  satisfy कि आवास of उसके नियमितता of सदस्यता  .
Freemasons gather together as a Lodge to work  the तीन मौलिक डिग्री of  Entered Apprentice , Fellowcraft and Master Mason .
Pilkington Group Limited is a  बहुराष्ट्रीय कांच निर्माण कम्पनी  headquartered in St Helens , United Kingdom and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Japan-based NSG Group .
Prior to its acquisition by NSG in 2006 it was an  स्वतंत्र कम्पनी सूचीबद्ध on the लंदन भण्डार  Exchange and for a time was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index .
A quotation is the repetition of one expression as part of another one , particularly when the quoted   expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original source , and it is indicated by ( punctuated with ) quotation marks .
A quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units of any other form of expression ,  विशेषकर भाग of कलाकारी works : तत्व  of a painting , scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition .
Year 1877 ( MDCCCLXXVII ) was a common  साल starting on सोमवार ( कड़ी होगा प्रदर्शक the पूरा पंचांग  ) of the Gregorian calendar and a common year starting on Saturday of the 12-day slower Julian calendar .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum ) is a flowering vine in  the परिवार piperaceae , cultivated लिये इसके फल  , which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning .
The fruit , known as a peppercorn when  सूखी , is लगभग in व्यास , अंधेरा रेड जब fully वयस्क  , and , like all drupes , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be described simply as pepper , or more precisely as  ब्लैक pepper ( पकाया और सूखी unripe फल ) , ग्रीन pepper ( सूखी unripe फल  ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is  देशी to दक्षिण इण्डिया , और is extensively  cultivated there and elsewhere in tropical regions .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer and exporter of pepper , producing 34 %  of the संसार 's  Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper has been used since antiquity for  दोनो इसके फ्लेवर और as a  medicine .
ब्लैक pepper  is the world 's most traded spice .
it is एक of the सबसे आम मसाले added to यूरोपीय भोजन और इसके वंशजों .
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical  piperine , नहीं to be उलझन साथ the  capsaicin that gives fleshy peppers theirs .
It is in the  आधुनिक संसार ,  often paired with salt .
Fire  hydrant in charlottesville  , Virginia , USA
A fire hydrant ( also known colloquially as a fire plug in the United States or as a johnny pump in New York City ) , is an active fire protection measure , and a  सोर्स of जल provided in सबसे शहरी , suburban और ग्रामीण क्षेत्रों साथ नगरपालिका जल  service to enable firefighters to tap into the municipal water supply to assist in extinguishing a fire .
Buildings near a hydrant may qualify for an  बीमे छूट चूंकि अग्निशमन चाहिए be समर्थ to अधिक rapidly बुझा  a fire on the insured property .
The concept of fire plugs  तिथियाँ to at तनिक the  17th century .
This was a time when  अग्निशमन responding to a कॉल होता खुदाई bas to  the wooden water mains and hastily bore a hole to secure water to fight fires .
The water would fill the hole creating a temporary well , and be transported from the well to the  आग by बाल्टी brigades or , बाद ,  by hand-pumped fire engines .
The holes  यहूद तब  plugged with stoppers , normally redwood , which over time came to be known as fire plugs .
The location  of the प्लग होता प्रायः  be recorded or marked so that it could be reused in future fires .
This is the source  of the colloquial  term fire plug still used for fire hydrants today .
After the Great Fire of London  in 1666  , the city installed water mains with holes drilled at intervals , equipped with risers , allowing an access point to the wooden fire plugs from street level .
The invention of a post- or pillar-type fire hydrant is generally credited to  फ्रेडरिक graff sr. , मुख्य इंजीनियर of the फिलाडेल्फिया जल works around  the year 1801 .
It had a combination hose/faucet outlet and was of `` wet  बैरल '' डिज़ाइन साथ the वाल्व  in the top .
It is said that Graff held the first patent for a fire hydrant , but this can not be verified  क्युकी the पेटेंट दफ्तर in वॉशिंगटन d.C. caught on  fire in 1836 destroying many patent records from that period in the process .
The President of the Republic of South Africa is the head of state and head of  सरकारी  under South Africa 's Constitution .
From 1961 to 1994 , the  सिर of राज्य थी  called the State President .
The President is elected by members of the National Assembly , the lower house of Parliament , and is usually  the नेता of the largest पार्टी , जिससे रै महरूम the अफ़्रीकी नेशनल कॉंग्रेस चूंकि  the first non-racial elections were held on 27 April 1994 .
The role was originally founded to be distinct from the now defunct role of prime minister , but the two roles were merged  in the 1983 संविधान जिससे निर्दिष्ट a four-year  term of office .
The 1993 and later  constitutions हद the अध्यक्ष  's time in office to two five-year terms .
The first President to be  निर्वाचित अंतर्गत the नई संविधान  was Nelson Mandela , and the incumbent president is Jacob Zuma .
Under the interim Constitution ( valid from 1994 to 1996 ) , there  थी a सरकारी of नेशनल एकता , in जिससे an mp इससे the largest  opposition party was entitled to a position as Deputy President .
Along  साथ thabo mbeki , the पिछला राज्य अध्यक्ष , f.w . de klerk भी परोसा  as Deputy President , in his capacity as the leader of the National Party which was the second-largest party in the new Parliament .
But De Klerk  बाद resigned और  went into opposition with his party .
A  voluntary गठबन्धन सरकारी continues to मौजूद अंतर्गत the नई  constitution ( adopted in 1996 ) , although there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president .
Special education or special needs education is the education of students  साथ खास needs in a रास्ता कि  addresses the students ' individual differences and needs .
Ideally , this process involves the individually planned and systematically monitored arrangement of  शिक्षण प्रक्रियाओं , adapted उपकरण और सामग्री , accessible जमावट , और अन्य interventions designed to सहायता learners  with special needs achieve a higher level of personal self-sufficiency and success in school and community than would be available if the student were only given access to a typical classroom education .
Common special needs include challenges with learning , communication challenges , emotional and behavioral disorders ,  शारीरिक disabilities , और developmental  disorders .
Students with these kinds of special needs are likely to benefit from additional educational  सेवाएं ऐसे as अलग approaches  to teaching , use of technology , a specifically adapted teaching area , or resource room .
Intellectual giftedness is a difference in learning and can also benefit from specialized teaching techniques or different educational programs , but the term `` special education '' is generally used to specifically indicate  निर्देश of विद्यार्थी जिनकी खास needs reduce उनके क्षमता to सीख independently or in an ordinary  classroom , and gifted education is handled separately .
In most developed countries , educators are modifying teaching  विधि और environments so कि the अधिकतम  number of students are served in general education environments .
Special education in developed countries is often regarded less as a ``  प्लेस '' और अधिक as `` a दायरा  of services , available in every school . ''
Integration can reduce social stigmas and improve  अकादमिक उपलब्धि लिये अनेक विद्यार्थी  .
The opposite of  खास शिक्षा  is general education .
General  शिक्षा is the मानक curriculum  presented with standard teaching methods and without additional supports .
George Soros ( or ; ; ;  born अगस्त 12 , 1930 , as schwartz györgy  ) is a Hungarian-American business magnate , investor , and philanthropist .
He is the chairman of Soros  निधि प्रबन्धन  .
Soros supports  progressive-liberal  causes .
He is known as `` The Man Who Broke the Bank  of इंग्लैण्ड `` क्युकी of उसके  in investment profits during the 1992 Black Wednesday UK currency crisis .
Between 1979 and 2011 , Soros gave  दूर over $ 8 अरब to  human rights , public health , and education causes .
He played a significant role in the peaceful transition  इससे साम्यवादी to पूंजीवाद  in Hungary ( 1984–89 ) and provided one of Europe 's largest higher education endowments to Central European University in Budapest .
Soros is also  the अध्यक्ष  of the Open Society Institute .
An actor portraying Alexander Graham Bell  बोलना into an  early model telephone .
The invention of the  टेलीफोन is the culmination of कार्य किया by अनेक  individuals , the history of which involves a collection of claims and counterclaims .
The development of the modern electrical telephone involved an array of lawsuits founded upon the patent  दावा of अनेक individuals और numerous कंपनियाँ  .
This article covers the early years from 1844 to 1898 , from conception of the idea of an electric voice-transmission device , to failed attempts to use ``  make-and-break '' वर्तमान , to कामयाब प्रयोग  with electromagnetic telephones by Alexander Graham Bell and Thomas Watson , and finally to commercially successful telephones in the late 19th century .
A Master of Fine Arts ( MFA , M.F.A . ) is a graduate degree typically requiring 2–3 years of postgraduate study beyond the bachelor 's degree ( BFA ) , although the term of  पढ़ाई होगा vary by देश or by  university .
The MFA is a creative degree usually awarded as a terminal degree in  विज़ुअल कला , रचनात्मक लिखने , filmmaking  , dance , or theatre and other performing arts .
Coursework is primarily of an applied or performing nature with the program often  culminating in a प्रमुख कार्य or प्रदर्शन  .
Master of  ठीक कला कार्यक्रम have generally जरूरी  a bachelor 's degree prior to admission , but many do not require that the undergraduate major be the same as the MFA field of study .
The most important  admissions आवश्यकता रै प्रायः  been a sample portfolio or a performance audition .
The Master of Fine Arts differs from the Master of  कला in कि the mfa , जबकि  an academic program , centers around practice in the particular field , whereas programs leading to the MA usually center on the scholarly , academic , or critical study of the field .
Additionally , in the United States , an MFA is recognized as a terminal degree for practitioners of Visual Art , Design , Dance , Theatre , Film/Video , New Media , and Creative Writing - meaning  कि it is माना to be the उच्चतम उपाधि in इसके फ़ील्ड ,  and is used as a minimum qualification to be able to apply to become a Full-Time Professor teaching at the University level in these disciplines .
There are exceptions to this standard in the Arts , notably in the case of music performance , where the  mfa is नहीं देखी as a टर्मिनल  degree in the context of the more standardized DMA degree .
It is also critical to  नोट कि in the ब्याज of extending the  connection between creative production and continued academic research , some universities have established practice-based Ph.D programs in fields such as creative writing , visual arts , new media , design and theater .
While this has had an effect in Creative Writing ,  और to a lesser extent in डिज़ाइन और नई मीडिया , the influx of graduates इससे practice-based  PhD programs has not appreciably changed the standard for the MFA as the terminal degree in most Arts disciplines yet .
This is an ongoing  contentious टॉपिक , और is  the frequent subject of academic panels , especially at the annual College Art Association conference .
The CAA 2008 guidelines regarding the MFA strongly  re-affirms कि the phd is नहीं जरूरी as a टर्मिनल  degree in the visual arts .
The atomic bombings of the  शहरों of हिरोशिमा और  Nagasaki in Japan were conducted by the United States during the final stages of World War II in 1945 .
The two events are the only use of  नाभिकीय  weapons in war to date .
Following a firebombing  अभियान कि नष्ट  many Japanese cities , the Allies prepared for a costly invasion of Japan .
The war in Europe ended when Nazi Germany  हस्ताक्षरित इसके यंत्र  of surrender on 8 May , but the Pacific War continued .
Together with the United Kingdom and the Republic of China , the United States called for a surrender of Japan in the Potsdam Declaration on 26 July 1945 ,  threatening जापानी साथ `` संकेत और utter विनाश  '' .
The Japanese government ignored this ultimatum , and the United States deployed two nuclear  हथियार  developed by the Manhattan Project .
American airmen dropped Little Boy on the city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945  , followed by मोटे man over नागासाकी on 9 अगस्त  .
Within the first two to four months of the bombings , the acute effects killed 90,000–166,000 people in Hiroshima and 60,000–80,000 in Nagasaki , with roughly half of the  मौतों in प्रत्येक नगर occurring on the पहला दिन  .
The Hiroshima  प्रीफ़ेक्चर स्वास्थ्य विभाग अनुमानित कि  , of the people who died on the day of the explosion , 60 % died from flash or flame burns , 30 % from falling debris and 10 % from other causes .
During the following months , large numbers died from the  प्रभाव of burns , विकिरण बीमारी , और अन्य  injuries , compounded by illness .
In a US estimate of the total immediate and short term cause of death , 15–20 % died from radiation  बीमारी , 20–30 % इससे burns , और 50–60 % इससे अन्य  injuries , compounded by illness .
In both cities , most of the dead were civilians , although  हिरोशिमा था a sizeable गैरीसन  .
On 15 August , six days after the bombing of Nagasaki , Japan announced its surrender to the Allies , signing the Instrument of  आत्मसमर्पण on 2 सितंबर , officially समाप्ति संसार युद्ध ii .
The bombings led , in part , to post-war Japan 's adopting Three Non-Nuclear  सिद्धान्त , forbidding the स्वदेश इससे  nuclear armament .
The role of the bombings in Japan 's  आत्मसमर्पण  and their ethical justification are still debated .
Mohandas Karamchand  गांधी ( ; 2 अक्तूबर 1869 – 30 जनवरी 1948 ) ,  commonly known as Mahatma Gandhi , was the preeminent leader of Indian nationalism in British-ruled India .
Employing non-violent civil disobedience , Gandhi led India to independence  और प्रेरित आंदोलनों लिये non-violence  , civil rights and freedom across the world .
The son of a senior  सरकारी आधिकारिक  , Gandhi was born and raised in a Hindu Bania community in coastal Gujarat , and trained in law in London .
Gandhi became famous by fighting  लिये the सिविल अधिकारों of मुस्लिम  and Hindu Indians in South Africa , using new techniques of non-violent civil disobedience that he developed .
returning to इण्डिया in 1915 , he  set about organising peasants to protest excessive land-taxes .
A lifelong  प्रतिद्वन्दी of `` सांप्रदायिकता `` ( i.e . basing राजनीती on धर्म  ) he reached out widely to all religious groups .
He became a leader of Muslims protesting the  घटती औकात of  the Caliphate .
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921 , Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty , expanding women 's rights , building  धार्मिक और जातीय सौहार्द , समाप्ति अस्पृश्यता , increasing आर्थिक self-reliance , और ऊपर सब लिये achieving स्वराज —the स्वतंत्रता  of India from British domination .
Gandhi led Indians in protesting the national salt tax with the Dandi Salt March in 1930 , and later in demanding the British to immediately Quit  इण्डिया in 1942 , दौरान  World War II .
He was imprisoned for that and for numerous other political  offenses over the सालो  .
Gandhi sought to practice  non-violence और सच्चाई  in all situations , and advocated that others do the same .
He saw the villages as  the कोर of the सच्चा इण्डिया और प्रचारित  self-sufficiency ; he did not support the industrialization programs of his disciple Jawaharlal Nehru .
He lived  modestly in a self-sufficient  residential community and wore the traditional Indian dhoti and shawl , woven with yarn he had hand spun on a charkha .
His chief political enemy  in ब्रिटेन थी विंस्टन चर्चिल , जो  ridiculed him as a `` half-naked fakir . ''
He was a dedicated vegetarian , and undertook long fasts as means of both  self-purification और राजनैतिक  mobilization .
In his last year , unhappy at the  विभाजन of इण्डिया , गांधी  worked to stop the carnage between Muslims , Hindus and Sikhs that raged in the border area between India and Pakistan .
He  थी assassinated on 30 जनवरी 1948 by nathuram गोडसे जो  thought Gandhi was too sympathetic to India 's Muslims .
30 January is observed as Martyrs ' Day in  इण्डिया  .
The honorific Mahatma  ( `` ग्रेट आत्मा  '' ) was applied to him by 1914 .
In India he was also  पुकारा bapu ( `` पिता  '' ) .
He is known in India as the Father of the Nation ; his birthday , 2 October , is  commemorated वहीँ as गांधी  Jayanti , a national holiday , and world-wide as the International Day of Non-Violence .
Gandhi 's philosophy was not theoretical but one of pragmatism  , कि is , practicing उसके  principles in the moment .
Asked to  दे a संदेश to the  people , he would respond , `` My life is my message . ''
Joan Crawford ( March 23 , ca . 1904  – may 10 , 1977 ) , born  Lucille Fay LeSueur , was an American actress in film , television and theatre .
Starting as a dancer in traveling theatrical companies  पहले debuting on ब्रॉडवे , क्रॉफर्ड थी हस्ताक्षरित to a गति चित्र अनुबंध  by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in 1925 .
Initially frustrated by the size and quality of her parts , Crawford began a campaign of  self-publicity और became nationally ज्ञात as a flapper by the समाप्त of the 1920s  .
In the 1930s , Crawford 's fame rivaled , and later outlasted , MGM colleagues Norma  शियर्र और greta  Garbo .
Crawford often played  मेहनती यंग महिलाओं  who find romance and financial success .
These `` rags-to-riches '' stories were well received by  अवसाद -era ऑडियंस और यहूद लोकप्रिय साथ महिलाओं  .
Crawford became one of Hollywood 's most prominent movie stars and one of the highest paid women in the United States , but her films began  खोने धन और  by the end of the 1930s she was labeled `` box office poison '' .
After an absence of nearly two  सालो इससे the स्क्रीन , क्रॉफर्ड  staged a comeback by starring in Mildred Pierce ( 1945 ) , for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress .
In 1955 , she  became शामिल  with the Pepsi-Cola Company through her marriage to company Chairman Alfred Steele .
After his death in 1959 , Crawford was elected to fill  उसके रिक्ति on the फलक  of directors but was forcibly retired in 1973 .
She continued acting in film and television regularly through the  1960s , जब उसके प्रदर्शन  became fewer ; after the release of the British horror film Trog in 1970 , Crawford retired from the screen .
Following a public appearance in 1974 , after which unflattering photographs were published ,  क्रॉफर्ड withdrew इससे पब्लिक जीवन और became increasingly  reclusive until her death in 1977 .
Crawford married  चार  times .
Her first three marriages  ended in तलाक ; the पिछला  ended with the death of husband Alfred Steele .
She adopted five children ,  एक of जिसको थी reclaimed by उसके  birth mother .
Crawford 's  संबंध साथ उसके  two older children , Christina and Christopher , were acrimonious .
Crawford disinherited the two and , after Crawford 's death , Christina wrote a `` tell-all '' memoir , Mommie Dearest , in which she alleged a lifelong  पैटर्न of शारीरिक और emotional गाली perpetrated  by Crawford .
She was voted the tenth greatest female  स्टार in the इतिहास  of American cinema by the American Film Institute .
1910 बुइक tonneau  without tonneau cover
1903 Ford  मॉडल a  rear-door Tonneau
1903  lanchester rear-door  Tonneau
Tonneau cover ( or ) describes a  मुश्किल or नरम कवर प्रयुक्त to protect unoccupied यात्री  seats in a convertible or roadster , or the cargo bed in a pickup truck .
Hard tonneau  कवर खोलें by a hinging or फोल्डिंग  mechanism while soft covers open by rolling up .
The tonneau cover  is प्रयुक्त to छिपाते  cargo .
When the cover is pulled out , it keeps items out of the sun and provides extra  सुरक्षा by keeping निजी वस्तुएं आउट of sight , as खूब as shielding  the driver from view .
Twitter is an online social networking service and  microblogging सेवा कि enables इसके उपयोक्ता to  send and read text-based messages of up to 140 characters , known as `` tweets '' .
Twitter was created in  कूच 2006  by Jack Dorsey and by July , the social networking site was launched .
The service rapidly gained worldwide popularity ,  साथ over 500 लाख पंजीकृत उपयोक्ता  as of 2012 , generating over 340 million tweets daily and handling over 1.6 billion search queries per day .
चूंकि इसके लॉन्च  , Twitter has become one of the ten most visited websites on the Internet , and has been described as `` the SMS of the Internet . ''
Unregistered users can read  tweets , जबकि पंजीकृत  users can post tweets through the website interface , SMS , or a range of apps for mobile devices .
Twitter Inc. is based in San Francisco , with additional servers and offices in New York City , Boston  , और  San Antonio .
The Hangover is a 2009 American comedy film  , co-produced और निर्देशित  by Todd Phillips and written by Jon Lucas and Scott Moore .
It is the first film of The  hangover मताधिकार .the फिल्मी सितारों ब्राडली कूपर , ed helms , zach galifianakis  , Heather Graham , Justin Bartha , and Jeffrey Tambor .
The Hangover tells the story of Phil Wenneck , Stu Price and Alan  गार्नर , जो सफर to लास वेगास  for a bachelor party to celebrate their friend Doug Billings ' impending marriage .
However , Phil , Stu and Alan have no memory of the previous night 's events  और जरूर ढूँढें डग पहले the विवाह  can take place .
Lucas and Moore wrote  the स्क्रिप्ट बाद कार्यपालिका  producer Chris Bender 's friend disappeared and had a large bill after being sent to a strip club .
After Lucas and Moore sold it to the studio for $ 2 million , Philips and Jeremy Garelick rewrote the script to include a  बाघ as खूब as a subplot involving  a baby and a police cruiser , and also including boxer Mike Tyson .
Filming took place in Nevada for 15 days , and during filming , the three main actors ( Cooper ,  helms और galifianakis  ) formed a friendship .
The  hangover थी released on जून 5 , 2009  , becoming a critical and commercial success .
It became the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 , with a worldwide gross of over US  $ 467 लाख  .
Critics praised the film 's comedic approach but  criticized it लिये इसके  vulgarity .
The film won  the सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार  for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy , and received multiple other accolades .
It is the tenth-highest-grossing film of 2009 in the world , as well as the second highest-grossing R-rated comedy ever in the United States , surpassing  a रिकार्ड previously आयोजित by बेवर्ली पहाड़ियाँ cop लिये लगभग 25 सालो और बाद  being surpassed by Ted in 2012 .
Out of all  r-rated  films , it is the third highest-grossing ever in the U.S. , behind only The Passion of the Christ and The Matrix Reloaded .
A sequel , The Hangover Part II , was released in 2011 , and a third and final film , The  hangover भाग iii , is नियत लिये रिलीज  in 2013 .
Events  involving meiosis , प्रर्दशित  chromosomal crossover
Meiosis (  ) is a खास  type of cell division necessary for sexual reproduction in eukaryotes .
the कोशिकाएं उत्पादित  by meiosis are gametes or spores .
In many organisms , including all animals and land plants ( but  नहीं कुछ अन्य समूह ऐसे as fungi  ) , gametes are called sperm and egg cells .
Whilst the process  of meiosis bears a क्रमांक of similarities  with the 'life-cycle ' cell division process of mitosis , it differs in two important respects:
the  गुणसूत्रों in meiosis  undergo a recombination which shuffles the genes producing a different genetic combination in each gamete , compared with the co-existence of each of the two separate pairs of each chromosome ( one received from each parent ) in each cell which results from mitosis .
the outcome of meiosis is potentially four ( genetically unique ) haploid cells ,  compared साथ the दो ( genetically  identical ) diploid cells produced from mitosis .
Meiosis begins with one diploid cell containing two copies of each chromosome —one  इससे the सजीव 's माँ और एक इससे  its father .
The cell divides twice , potentially producing up to four  अगुणित कोशिकाएं containing एक नक़ल  of each chromosome .
( `` Potentially '' because in some cases , such as the formation of oocytes in mammals , only one  of the संभावित चार अगुणित कोशिकाएं survives  . )
In animals the  अगुणित कोशिका resulting  from meiosis is a male or female gamete .
Each of the  resulting गुणसूत्रों in the gamete कोशिकाएं is a अद्वितीय मिश्रण  of maternal and paternal DNA , resulting in offspring that are genetically distinct from either parent .
This  देता वृद्धि to  genetic diversity in sexually reproducing populations .
This genetic diversity can provide the variation of physical and behavioural  गुण ( phenotypes ) upon जिससे  natural selection can act , but , as described below in Section 6 , Origin and function of meiosis , the genetic diversity may be largely a by-product of the homologous recombination that is primarily employed for its DNA repair function during meiosis .
It is also noteworthy that during meiosis , specific genes   are more highly transcribed , and these are called the meiome , the term used in functional genomics for the meiotic transcriptome .
meiosis is a कुंजी विशेषता लिये सब sexually reproducing  eukaryotes in which homologous chromosome pairing , synapse and recombination occur .
In addition to  दमदार meiotic stage-specific अभिव्यक्ति of mrna ( the meiome )  , however , there are also pervasive translational controls ( e.g . selective usage of preformed mRNA ) , regulating the ultimate meiotic stage-specific protein expression of genes during meiosis .
Thus , both the meiome and translational controls determine the broad restructuring of meiotic cells needed to  carry आउट meiosis  .
Prior to the meiosis process the cell 's chromosomes are duplicated by a round of DNA replication , creating from the  मातृ और पैतृक संस्करण of प्रत्येक chromosome  ( homologs ) two exact copies , sister chromatids , attached at the centromere region .
In the  शुरूआत of meiosis  the maternal and paternal homologs pair to each other .
Then they typically exchange parts by  समजात recombination अग्रणी to crossovers of डीएनए  between the maternal and paternal versions of the chromosome .
Spindle fibers bind to the centromeres of  प्रत्येक जोड़ी of homologs और  arrange the pairs at the spindle equator .
Then the fibers pull the  recombined homologs to विपरीत  poles of the cell .
As the chromosomes move away from the center the cell divides into two daughter cells , each  containing a अगुणित क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों  composed of two chromatids .
After the recombined maternal and paternal homologs  have अलग into the दो बेटी  cells , a second round of cell division occurs .
There meiosis ends as the two sister chromatids making up each homolog   are separated and move into one of the four resulting gamete cells .
Upon  fertilization , लिये  example when a sperm enters an egg cell , two gamete cells produced by meiosis fuse .
The gamete from the mother and the gamete from the father each contribute one half of  the नियत of गुणसूत्रों  that make up the new offspring 's genome .
Meiosis uses many of the same mechanisms as mitosis , a type of cell division used by eukaryotes like plants and  पशु to विभाजित एक कोशिका into दो एकसमान बेटी  cells .
In all plants and in many protists  meiosis परिणाम in  the formation of spores : haploid cells that can divide vegetatively without undergoing fertilization .
Boxing ( pugilism , prize fighting , the sweet science or in  यूनानी pygmachia ) is a martial आर्ट और कॉम्बैट खेल in जिससे  two people engage in a contest of strength , speed , reflexes , endurance and will by throwing punches with gloved hands .
Amateur boxing is an Olympic and Commonwealth sport and is a common fixture in most of the major  अंतरराष्ट्रीय  games - it also has its own World Championships .
Boxing is supervised by a referee over a series of one- to  three-minute intervals पुकारा  rounds .
The result is decided when an opponent is deemed incapable to continue by  a रेफरी , is disqualified लिये तोड़कर a नियम ,  resigns by throwing in a towel , or is pronounced the winner or loser based on the judges ' scorecards at the end of the contest .
The birth hour of boxing as a  खेल may be इसके स्वीकृति by the प्राचीन  Greeks as an Olympic game as early as 688 BC .
Boxing evolved from 16th- and 18th-century prizefights , largely in Great Britain , to  the forerunner of आधुनिक मुक्केबाज़ी in the mid-19th  century , again initially in Great Britain and later in the United States .
In 2004 , ESPN ranked boxing as  the  most difficult sport in the world .
Agreement or concord happens when a word changes form depending on  the अन्य शब्द to जिससे it relates  .
It is an instance of  inflection , और प्रायः involves बनाना the मान of कुछ व्याकरणिक  category ( such as gender or person ) `` agree '' between different words or parts of the sentence .
लिये उदाहरण , in  Standard English , one may say I am or he is , but not `` I is '' or `` he am '' .
इस is क्युकी  the grammar of the language requires that the verb and its subject agree in person .
The pronouns  i और he हैं पहला और  third person respectively , as are the verb forms am and is .
The verb form must be selected so that it has the same  व्यक्ति as the  subject .
The agreement based on overt grammatical categories as above  is औपचारिक अनुबंध , in कंट्रास्ट to notional  agreement , which is based on meaning .
For instance , the phrase The United States is treated as singular for purposes  of अनुबंध , भी हालांकि  it is formally plural .
This  is a सूची of स्थान  below mean sea level that are on land .
Places in tunnels ,  खानों , तहखानों , खोदा छेद  ( also with open sky ) , under water , under ice , or existing temporarily as a result of ebbing of sea tide etc . are not included .
सब आंकड़े  are in meters below sea level:
Debbie Macomber ( born October 22 , 1948 in Yakima , Washington ) is a best-selling American author  of over 150 रोमांस novels और समकालीन  women 's fiction .
Over 140 million copies of her books are in print throughout the world ,  और चार have become made-for-tv-movies  .
Macomber was the inaugural   winner of the fan-voted Quill Award for romance in 2005 and has been awarded both a Romance Writers of America RITA and a lifetime achievement award by the Romance Writers of America .
Catonsville is a census-designated place ( CDP ) in  बाल्टीमोर काउंटी ,  Maryland , United States .
The population was  41,567  at the 2010 census .
the जातियाँ झूठ to the वेस्ट  of Baltimore along the city 's border .
Catonsville is the home  of the विश्वविद्यालयों of मेरीलैंड , बाल्टीमोर  County ( UMBC ) , a public research university with over 12,000 students .
A lawyer , according to Black 's Law Dictionary , is `` a person learned in the law ; as an attorney  , counsel or solicitor ; a व्यक्ति जो is practicing विधि .  ''
Law is the system of rules of conduct established by the sovereign government  of a समाज to सही wrongs , maintain the स्थिरता of राजनैतिक  and social authority , and deliver justice .
Working as a lawyer involves the practical application of abstract legal theories and  ज्ञान  to solve specific individualized problems , or to advance the interests of those who retain ( i.e. , hire ) lawyers to perform legal services .
The role of the lawyer varies significantly across legal  jurisdictions , और so it can be treated  here in only the most general terms .
Vector Marketing is the domestic sales arm of Cutco Corporation , an Olean ,  नई यॉर्क आधारित cutlery निर्माता  .
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( FMLA ) is a United States federal law  requiring covered नियोक्ता to provide कर्मचारी job-protected  and unpaid leave for qualified medical and family reasons .
योग्य चिकित्सा और परिवार कारण शामिल  : personal or family illness , family military leave , pregnancy , adoption , or the foster care placement of a child .
The FMLA is administered by the Wage and Hour Division of the United  राज्य विभाग  of Labor .
The bill was a major  भाग of अध्यक्ष  Bill Clinton 's agenda in his first term .
अध्यक्ष क्लिंटन हस्ताक्षरित the विधेयक  into law on February 5 , 1993 ( ; 29 U.S.C . sec . 2601 ; 29 CFR 825 ) and it took effect on August 5 , 1993 , six months later .
The FMLA was intended `` to balance the demands of the  कार्यस्थल साथ  the needs of families . ''
The Act allows eligible employees to  लो up to 12 कार्य सप्ताह of unpaid छोड़ दौरान कोई 12-month काल to attend to the  serious health condition of the employee , parent , spouse or child , or for pregnancy or care of a newborn child , or for adoption or foster care of a child .
In order to be  योग्य लिये fmla छोड़  , an employee must have been at the business at least 12 months , and worked at least 1,250 hours over the past 12 months , and work at a location where the company employs 50 or more employees within 75 miles .
The FMLA covers both public- and private-sector employees , but certain categories of  कर्मचारी हैं excluded  , including elected officials and their personal staff members .
The Vietnam War ( ) was a Cold War -era military conflict that occurred in Vietnam , Laos , and Cambodia from 1 November  1955 to the पतन of साइगॉन on 30 अप्रैल  1975 .
This war followed the First  इंडोचायना युद्ध और थी लड़ा between उत्तर वियतनाम , समर्थित  by its communist allies , and the government of South Vietnam , supported by the United States and other anti-communist countries .
The Viet Cong ( also known as the National Liberation Front , or NLF ) , a lightly armed South Vietnamese  कम्युनिस्ट आम सामने निर्देशित by the उत्तर , largely लड़ा a छापामार  war against anti-communist forces in the region .
The Vietnam People 's Army ( North Vietnamese Army ) engaged in a more  conventional युद्ध , at टाइम्स committing विशाल  units into battle .
U.S. and South Vietnamese forces relied on air superiority and overwhelming firepower to conduct   search and destroy operations , involving ground forces , artillery , and airstrikes .
The U.S. government viewed  भागीदारी in the युद्ध as a रास्ता to prevent a कम्युनिस्ट कब्ज़ा  of South Vietnam as part of their wider strategy of containment .
The North Vietnamese government and Viet Cong were  लड़ to reunify वियतनाम  under communist rule .
They viewed the conflict as a colonial war , fought  initially विरूद्ध फ़्रांस , समर्थित  by the U.S. , and later against South Vietnam , which it regarded as a U.S. puppet state .
American military advisors arrived in what was then French  इंडोचायना शुरूआत in 1950  .
U.S. involvement escalated in the early 1960s ,  साथ troop स्तर tripling  in 1961 and tripling again in 1962 .
U.S. combat units  यहूद तैनात  beginning in 1965 .
Operations spanned international  सीमायें , साथ लाओस  and Cambodia heavily bombed .
American involvement in the war peaked in 1968 , at the  समय of the tet अप्रिय  .
बाद इस , u.S. मैदान शक्तियां यहूद  gradually withdrawn as part of a policy known as Vietnamization .
Despite the Paris  सलाम accords  , signed by all parties in January 1973 , fighting continued .
U.S. military  भागीदारी  ended on 15 August 1973 as a result of the Case–Church Amendment passed by the U.S. Congress .
the कैप्चर  of Saigon by the Vietnam People 's Army in April 1975 marked the end of the war , and North and South Vietnam were reunified the following year .
The war exacted a huge human cost in  शर्तें of fatalities  ( see Vietnam War casualties ) .
Estimates  of the क्रमांक of  Vietnamese soldiers and civilians killed vary from 800,000 to 3.1 million .
Some 200,000–300,000 Cambodians , 20,000–200,000  laotians , और 58,220  U.S. service members also died in the conflict .
Cleveland Volcano in the Aleutian  आइलैंड्स of अलास्का photographed  from the International Space Station , May 2006 .
Ash plumes reached a height of 19 km during  the  climactic eruption at Mount Pinatubo , Philippines in 1991 .
A volcano is an opening , or rupture , in a planet 's surface or crust , which allows hot magma , volcanic ash and  गैसों to एस्केप इससे the  magma chamber below the surface .
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic  प्लेटों हैं diverging or converging  .
A mid-oceanic ridge , for example the Mid-Atlantic Ridge , has examples of volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart ; the Pacific Ring of Fire has  उदाहरण of ज्वालामुखी caused by अभिसारी  tectonic plates coming together .
By contrast ,  ज्वालामुखी हैं प्रायः नहीं  created where two tectonic plates slide past one another .
Volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth 's crust in the interiors of plates , e.g. , in the East African Rift , the Wells  gray-clearwater  volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America .
इस प्रकार of volcanism जलप्रपात अंतर्गत  the umbrella of `` Plate hypothesis '' volcanism .
Volcanism away from plate  सीमाएँ रै  also been explained as mantle plumes .
These so-called  `` हॉटस्पॉट `` , लिये उदाहरण हवाई , हैं postulated to उठता इससे  upwelling diapirs with magma from the core–mantle boundary , 3,000 km deep in the Earth .
Erupting volcanoes can pose many hazards  , नहीं तभी in the तात्कालिक  vicinity of the eruption .
Volcanic  राख can be a threat to वायुयान , in particular those  with jet engines where ash particles can be melted by the high operating temperature .
विशाल eruptions can affect तापमान as राख और droplets of  sulfuric acid obscure the sun and cool the Earth 's lower atmosphere or troposphere ; however , they also absorb heat radiated up from the Earth , thereby warming the stratosphere .
Historically , so-called volcanic winters have  caused अनर्थकारी  famines .
A deep  pothole on नई  York City 's Second Avenue
A pothole ( sometimes called a kettle and known in parts of the Western United States as a chuckhole  ) is a प्रकार of disruption in the सतह of a roadway जहाँ a portion of the  road material has broken away , leaving a hole .
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC , also known as hypernephroma ) is a kidney cancer that  originates in the अस्तर of the proximal  convoluted tubule , the very small tubes in the kidney that transport GF ( glomerular filtrate ) from the glomerulus to the descending limb of the nephron .
RCC is the most common type of kidney cancer in adults , responsible for  लगभग 80 % of  cases .
It is also known  to be the सबसे lethal  of all the genitourinary tumors .
Initial treatment is most commonly a radical or partial nephrectomy and  remains the  mainstay of curative treatment .
Where the tumor is confined to the renal parenchyma  , the  5-year survival rate is 60-70 % , but this is lowered considerably where metastases have spread .
It is relatively resistant to  विकिरण चिकित्सा और कीमोथेरेपी , हालांकि  some cases respond to immunotherapy .
Targeted cancer therapies such as  sunitinib , temsirolimus  , bevacizumab , interferon-alpha , and sorafenib have improved the outlook for RCC .
Estée Lauder Companies , Inc. is a manufacturer and marketer of prestige skincare , makeup ,  महक और बाल परवाह  products .
The company has  इसके मुख्यालय in midtown  Manhattan , New York City .
The peritoneum ( ) is the serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or the coelom —it covers most of the  intra-abdominal ( or coelomic  ) organs—in amniotes and some invertebrates ( annelids , for instance ) .
It is  रचित of a परत of mesothelium  supported by a thin layer of connective tissue .
The peritoneum both  supports the abdominal  organs and serves as a conduit for their blood and lymph vessels and nerves .
The abdominal cavity ( the  स्पेस bounded by the vertebrae , abdominal मांसपेशियां  , diaphragm and pelvic floor ) should not be confused with the intraperitoneal space ( located within the abdominal cavity , but wrapped in peritoneum ) .
The structures within the intraperitoneal space are called `` intraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the stomach ) , the structures in the abdominal cavity that are located  पीछे the intraperitoneal स्पेस हैं पुकारा `` retroperitoneal `` ( e.g . the गुर्दे  ) , and those structures below the intraperitoneal space are called `` subperitoneal '' or `` infraperitoneal '' ( e.g . the bladder ) .
आधुनिक 2.5 '' ssd प्रयुक्त in  consumer laptops and desktop computers .
DDR  sdram आधारित  SSD .
अधिकतम  and .
PCI attached IO Accelerator  ssd
PCI-E ,  dram ,  and NAND based SSD .
It  उपयोग an बाह्य शक्ति सप्लाई to  make the DRAM non-volatile .
A solid-state drive ( SSD ) ( also known as a solid-state disk or electronic disk , though it contains no actual `` disk '' of any kind ) is a data  भंडार यंत्र using एकीकृत सर्किट सभाओं as मेमोरी to स्टोर आंकड़ा  persistently .
SSD technology uses electronic  अंतरफलक संगत साथ परंपरागत ब्लाक input/output  ( I/O ) hard disk drives .
SSDs have no moving mechanical components , which distinguish them from traditional electromechanical magnetic disks such  as मुश्किल डिस्क ड्राइव ( hdds ) or फ्लॉपी डिस्क , जिससे contain घूम डिस्क  and movable read/write heads .
Compared with  electromechanical डिस्क , ssds हैं typically कम susceptible  to physical shock , much quieter , have lower access time , and less latency .
However , while the price of SSDs has continued to decline in 2012 , SSDs are still  परिचय 7 to 8 टाइम्स अधिक महंगी प्रति ईकाई of  storage than HDDs .
Many SSDs use I/O interfaces developed for hard disk drives ,  यूँ permitting  simple replacement in common applications .
, most SSDs use  nand-based फ्लैश  memory , which retains data without power .
For applications requiring fast access , but not necessarily data persistence after power loss , SSDs may be  constructed इससे random-access मेमोरी ( राम  ) .
Such devices may employ separate power sources ,  ऐसे as बैटरी , to maintain  data after power loss .
Hybrid drives or solid state hybrid drives ( SSHD ) combine  the सुविधाएँ of ssds और hdds in the वही ईकाई , containing a विशाल मुश्किल  disk drive and an SSD cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data .
These devices may  प्रस्ताव near-ssd प्रदर्शन लिये  many applications .
Salmon roe ( left ) and sturgeon caviar ( right ) served with mother of pearl  caviar spoons to avoid  tainting the taste of the caviar .
Ossetra  caviar , सामन creme fraiche ,  potato shallot croquette , basil oil , egg whites and yolks
Caviar , according to the Food and  कृषि संगठन , is a उत्पाद बना  from salt-cured fish-eggs of the Acipenseridae family .
The roe can be `` fresh '' (  non-pasteurized ) or pasteurized , साथ pasteurization reducing  its culinary and economic value .
Traditionally the term caviar refers only to  roe इससे जंगली  sturgeon in the Caspian and Black Seas ( Beluga , Ossetra and Sevruga caviars ) .
Depending on the country , caviar may also be used to describe the roe of other fish such as salmon , steelhead , trout  , lumpfish , whitefish , और अन्य प्रजाति  of sturgeon .
Caviar  is माना a लक्ज़री कोमलता  and is eaten as a garnish or a spread .
In 2012 , caviar sold for  $ 2,500 प्रति पाउंड , or  $ 3,000 to $ 5,500 per kilo .
The SEC Network is  a टेलीविज़न अनुप्रयोग संजाल featuring सजीव प्रसारण  of college football and basketball events from the Southeastern Conference .
It is owned and operated by ESPN Plus and is shown in more than 50 percent of households in the United States , mostly Southeastern  संयुक्त राज्य बाज़ार  .
The  सेक संजाल typically  airs in the noon eastern slot that was former home to the Raycom Sports SEC game of the week .
Games are shown  locally on ब्रॉडकास्ट स्टेशन , क्षेत्रीय खेल संजाल  , as well as on ESPN GamePlan , ESPN Full Court , and ESPN3.com .
The SEC Network is also  उपलब्धियाँ in कनाडा  via Atlanta 's WPCH-TV .
The SEC Network uses the same on-screen graphics currently used by  ईएसपीएन on एबीसी , a संस्करण of ईएसपीएन  's graphics package .
SEC Network 's football programming still uses a title safe area because  most of  its affiliates do not Letterbox their Standard Definition feeds , while ESPN 's television networks have allowed their graphics to abandon the title safe , but letterbox for SD viewers .
Starting  साथ the सेक 2012  Basketball season , SEC Network 's graphics have been converted to a 16:9 Widescreen-only format .
This is also being used for the 2013 Basketball season , but had still adapted the former 4:3-safe  ग्राफिक्स स्वरूप लिये the 2012 सेक  football season .
The 1990s , pronounced and also known as `` the Nineteen-Nineties '' or abbreviated as `` the Nineties '' or `` the '90s '' ,  थी a दशक कि began on जनवरी 1 , 1990 , और ended  on December 31 , 1999 .
It was the 10th and last decade of the  20th सदी और the  100th and last decade of the 2nd millennium .
The decade is best known for the end of the Cold War at the beginning of the decade and the expansion and  व्यावसायीकरण of the अंतरजाल दौरान the दूसरी हाफ  of the decade .
In much of the West the 1990s is remembered as a period of unprecedented peace and prosperity , though many parts of the so-called Third World faced various problems including genocide , AIDS and new or continuing ethnic tensions and  सिविल युद्धों  .
Culturally  बोलना the दशक थी  characterized by the rise of multiculturalism and alternative media .
Movements such as grunge , the rave scene and hip hop spread around the world to young people during the decade , aided  by then-new प्रौद्योगिकी ऐसे as केबल टेलीविज़न और the  Internet .
A combination of factors , including the mass mobilization of capital markets  through neoliberalism , the शुरूआत of  the widespread proliferation of new media such as the Internet , and the dissolution of the Soviet Union led to a realignment and reconsolidation of economic and political power across the world , and within countries .
Income inequality among countries in the world rose sharply between the 1980s and  the mid-1990s , पहले levelling बंद और तब गिरना बाद  2000 .
New ethnic conflicts emerged in Africa , the Balkans  और the काकेशस , the पूर्व दो जिससे led to the rwandan  genocide and Bosnian genocide , respectively .
The United States began its current military occupation of the  मध्य ईस्ट दौरान the गर्मियाँ of 1990 साथ  Desert Shield after it cut off a large portion of the world 's petroleum supply .
Signs of any resolution of tensions between Israel and the Arab world remained elusive , though the  आयरिश परेशानियों आए to a standstill  in 1998 with the Good Friday Agreement after 30 years of violence .
The gray wolf or grey wolf ( Canis lupus ) is a species of canid  देशी to the wilderness और रिमोट क्षेत्रों of उत्तर अमेरिका , यूरेशिया  , and North Africa .
It is the largest member of its family , with  males averaging , और महिलाओं  .
It is similar in general appearance and proportions to a German shepherd , or sled dog ,  लकिन रै a larger सिर , narrower छाती , longer टाँगे , straighter  tail and bigger paws .
Its winter fur is long and bushy , and predominantly a mottled gray in colour , although nearly pure white , red , or brown to  ब्लैक भी  occur .
Within the genus Canis , the gray wolf represents a more specialised and progressive form than its  छोटी cousins ( the कायोटी और सुनहरी jackal ) , as demonstrated by इसके  morphological adaptations to hunting large prey , its more gregarious nature and its highly advanced expressive behavior .
It is a social animal , travelling in nuclear families consisting of a mated pair , accompanied by the  जोड़ी 's वयस्क  offspring .
The gray  भेड़िया is typically an apex  predator throughout its range , with only humans and tigers posing a serious threat to it .
It feeds primarily on  विशाल ungulates , हालांकि  it also eats smaller animals , livestock , carrion , and garbage .
The gray wolf is one of the world 's most  खूब शोधकार्य पशु , साथ संभवतः  more books written about it than any other wildlife species .
It has a long history of association with humans , having been despised and hunted in most agricultural communities due to its attacks on livestock ,  जबकि conversely होने  respected by some Native American tribes .
It  is the एकमात्र पूर्वज of  the dog , which was first domesticated in the Middle East .
Although the fear of wolves is prevalent  in अनेक इंसान समाजों ,  the majority of recorded attacks on people have been attributed to animals suffering from rabies .
Non-rabid wolves have attacked and killed people , mainly children , but this is unusual , as  भेड़ियों हैं अपेक्षाकृत few , सजीव दूर इससे लोगों , और have  been taught to fear humans by hunters and shepherds .
Hunting and trapping has reduced the species ' range to , though its still relatively widespread range and stable population means that the species is not threatened at a global level ,  और is इसलिए वर्गीकृत by the आईयूसीएन as तनिक चिंता .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post- Republican period of the ancient Roman civilization , characterised by an autocratic form  of सरकारी और विशाल territorial holdings  around the Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic , which preceded it , had been  destabilized through  a series of civil wars .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire , including Julius Caesar 's appointment as perpetual dictator ( 44 BC ) ; the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the  granting of the honorific augustus to octavian by the रोमन  Senate ( 27 BC ) .
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period of unprecedented  स्थिरता और समृद्धि ज्ञात as the pax romana (  `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached  इसके महानतम expanse  during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ) .
In the 3rd century , the Empire underwent a crisis  कि  threatened its existence , but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian .
Christians rose to power in the 4th century , during which time a system of dual rule was  विकसित in the लैटिन वेस्ट और यूनानी ईस्ट .
After the collapse of central government in the West in the 5th  सदी , the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as  what would later be known as the Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the institutions and culture of Rome had a  profound और स्थायी influence on the विकास of भाषा , धर्म , वास्तुकला ,  philosophy , law , and forms of government in the territory it governed , particularly Europe , and by means of European expansionism throughout the modern world .
Education in the  संयुक्त राज्य is मुख्यतः provided  by the public sector , with control and funding coming from three levels : local , state , and federal , in that order .
Child education is compulsory , and  वहीँ हैं भी a विशाल क्रमांक और चौड़ी किस्में of उच्चतर शिक्षा संस्थानों  throughout the country that one can choose to attend , both publicly and privately administered .
Public  शिक्षा is universally  available .
स्कूल curricula , funding , शिक्षण , नियुक्ति  , and other policies are set through locally elected school boards with jurisdiction over school districts with many directives from state legislatures .
School districts are usually separate from other  लोकल jurisdictions , साथ स्वतंत्र  officials and budgets .
Educational standards and standardized testing  निर्णय हैं प्रायः बना  by state governments .
The ages for  अनिवार्य शिक्षा  vary by state .
It begins from ages five to eight and ends  इससे आयु  fourteen to eighteen .
Compulsory education requirements can generally be satisfied by  educating children in पब्लिक स्कूलों , state-certified निजी  schools , or an approved home school program .
In most  पब्लिक और निजी स्कूलों , शिक्षा is विभाजित into तीन स्तर : elementary  school , middle school ( sometimes called junior high school ) , and high school ( sometimes referred to as secondary education ) .
In almost all schools at these levels , children are divided by age groups into grades , ranging from kindergarten ( followed by first grade ) for the youngest children in  elementary स्कूल , up to बारहवीं ग्रेड , the  final year of high school .
The  सटीक आयु दायरा of विद्यार्थी  in these grade levels varies slightly from area to area .
Post-secondary education , better known as  `` कॉलेज `` in the संयुक्त राज्य , is generally  governed separately from the elementary and high school system , and is described in a separate section below .
Government supported , free public schools for all started  होने स्थापित बाद the क्रान्ति  , and expanded in the 19th century , as the results of efforts of men like Horace Mann and Booker T. Washington .
By 1870  , सब राज्य  had free elementary schools , albeit only in urban centers .
As the 20th century drew nearer , states  प्रारंभ गुजर कानून to मेक schooling अनिवार्य  , and by 1910 , 72 percent of children attended school .
Private schools  जारी to स्प्रेड दौरान इस समय  , as well as colleges and—in the rural centers— land grant colleges .
The year of 1910  भी देखी the पहला सच्चा  high schools .
During the rest of the 20th century , educational efforts centered on reducing  the असमानता of the schooling प्रणाली  .
The landmark Supreme Court case Brown v. Board of Education made the desegregation of elementary  और ऊँची स्कूलों a नेशनल प्रधानता , जबकि  the Pell Grant program helped poor minorities gain access to college .
Special education was made  into संघीय  law in 1975 .
The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of  1965 बना मानकीकृत परीक्षण a आवश्यकता , और in 1983 , a आयोग थी स्थापित  to evaluate their results and propose a course of action .
The resulting No Child Left Behind Act of  2001 थी विवादास्पद  and its goals proved to be unrealistic .
A commission  स्थापित in 2006  evaluated higher education , but its recommendations have yet to be fully implemented .
पॉल ब्रैग ( फ़रवरी 6  , 1895 – December 7 , 1976 ) , nutritionist , was a pioneer in America’s wellness movement .
Health  बिता प्रति capita , in  $ US PPP-adjusted , with the US and Canada compared amongst other first world nations .
Comparison of the health care systems in Canada and the United States  हैं प्रायः बना by सरकारी  , public health and public policy analysts .
The two countries had similar health care systems before  कनाडा reformed  its system in the 1960s and 1970s .
The United States spends much more money on health care than Canada ,  on दोनो a per-capita  basis and as a percentage of GDP .
In 2006 , per-capita spending for health  परवाह in कनाडा थी  US $ 3,678 ; in the U.S. , US $ 6,714 .
The  u.S. खर्च  15.3 % of GDP on health care in that year ; Canada spent 10.0 % .
In 2006 , 70 % of health care spending in Canada was financed  by सरकारी , बनाम  46 % in the United States .
Total government spending per capita in the U.S. on health care was 23 % higher than Canadian government spending , and U.S. government expenditure on health care was just under 83 % of  कुल कनाडाई बिता ( पब्लिक और निजी ) हालांकि ये आंकडे do n't लो into खाता  population differences .
Studies have come to different  conclusions परिचय the परिणाम  of this disparity in spending .
A 2007 review of all studies comparing health outcomes in Canada and the US in a Canadian peer-reviewed medical journal found that `` health outcomes may be  श्रेष्ठ in मरीजों cared लिये in कनाडा बनाम the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन मतभेद हैं नहीं सतत  . ''
Life expectancy is longer in  कनाडा  , and its infant mortality rate is lower than that of the U.S. , but there is debate about the underlying causes of these differences .
One commonly cited comparison , the 2000 World Health Organization 's ratings of `` overall health service performance '' , which used a `` composite measure of achievement in the level of  स्वास्थ्य , the वितरण  of health , the level of responsiveness and fairness of financial contribution '' , ranked Canada 30th and the US 37th among 191 member nations .
This study rated the US `` responsiveness '' , or quality of  सेवा लिये individuals receiving उपचार , as 1st  , compared with 7th for Canada .
While the average life expectancy for Canadians was 80.34 years compared with 78.6 years for residents of the US , simply comparing the life expectancy of two groups with different racial makeup and different obesity  दरों is संभावित नहीं an प्रभावी रास्ता of determining जिससे healthcare प्रणाली  is superior .
The WHO 's study methods  यहूद criticized  by some analyses .
Although there is a measure of consensus that life-expectancy and infant mortality mark the  सबसे विश्वसनीय तरीके to compare nation-wide स्वास्थ्य परवाह , assuming the  population makeup is similar , a recent report by the Congressional Research Service carefully summarizes some recent data and notes the `` difficult research issues '' facing international comparisons .
The sound source has now  टूटा through the ध्वनि गति अवरोध ,  and is traveling at 1.4 times the speed of sound , ( Mach 1.4 ) .
Since the source  is चलती तेज़ ( साथ a गति ) than the ध्वनि लहरें it creates ,  it actually leads the advancing wavefront .
The sound source  होगा pass by a stationary निरीक्षक ( साथ  a speed ) before the observer actually hears the sound it creates .
As a result , an  निरीक्षक in  front of the source will detect
और an  observer behind the source .
A sonic boom produced by an aircraft moving at M=2.92  , गणना  from the cone angle of 20 degrees .
An observer hears the boom when the shock wave , on the  किनारे of the कोन  , crosses his or her location .
Mach  कोन कोण
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock waves  निर्मित by an ऑब्जेक्ट traveling through the एयर तेज़  than the speed of sound .
Sonic booms generate  विशाल amounts of ध्वनि उर्जा  , sounding much like an explosion .
The crack of a supersonic bullet passing overhead is an  उदाहरण of a सोनिक बूम in  miniature .
The Tonight Show with Jay Leno is an American  late-night बात दिखाएँ hosted by jay लीनो कि initially  aired from May 25 , 1992 to May 29 , 2009 , and resumed production on March 1 , 2010 .
The fourth incarnation of the Tonight Show franchise made its debut on May 25 , 1992 ,  तीन दिनों following जॉनी कार्सन 's रिटायरमेंट  as host of the program .
The program originates from NBC Studios in Burbank , California , and is  ब्रॉडकास्ट सोमवार through शुक्रवार at 11:35 pm in the पूर्वी  and Pacific time zones ( 10:35 PM Central / Mountain time ) .
Unlike  कार्सन or उसके पूर्ववर्ती जोकर paar  , Leno only once utilized a guest host , preferring to host the series by himself .
On April 26 , 1999 , the show began broadcasting in 1080i HDTV , becoming the  पहला अमरीकी  nightly talk show to be shot in high definition .
the दिखाएँ  is shot in 16:9 aspect ratio .
The series , which followed the same basic format as that of his predecessors ( an  खोलने monologue followed by कॉमेडी दिनचर्या , साक्षात्कार  and performances ) , ran until May 29 , 2009 , after which Leno was succeeded by Conan O'Brien .
NBC signed Leno to a new deal for a  nightly बात दिखाएँ in the 10:00  pm ET timeslot .
The primetime series , titled The Jay Leno Show , debuted on September 14 ,  2009 , following a  similar format to the Leno incarnation of Tonight .
Neither O'Brien 's version of the program , which premiered June 1 , 2009 , nor The Jay Leno  दिखाएँ उत्पन्न the  ratings that NBC had expected .
The network decided to move a  सघन 30-minute  version of Leno 's show to O'Brien 's time slot , and O'Brien 's Tonight Show a half-hour later .
This decision met with opposition from O'Brien , whose stint on The Tonight Show ended January 22 ,  2010 , बाद जिससे he began उसके अपना बात दिखाएँ on  TBS .
The Tonight Show  साथ jay लीनो तब began इसके दूसरी  and current incarnation , the sixth of the franchise , on March 1 , 2010 .
RFID chip  अगला to a  grain of rice .
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an external magnetic field to transfer a  coded पहचान क्रमांक जब  queried by a reader device .
This small type is incorporated in consumer products  , और implanted in पालतु  , for identification purposes .
Radio-frequency identification ( RFID ) is the wireless non-contact  उपयोग of radio-frequency इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र आंकड़ा , लिये the उद्देश्य  of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects .
The tags contain electronically  भंडारित सूचना  .
Some tags are powered and read at short ranges ( a few meters )  via चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड  ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as a battery , or else have no battery but collect energy from the interrogating EM field , and then act as a passive transponder to emit  microwaves or uhf रेडियो लहरें ( i.e. , इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation at high frequencies ) .
बैटरी संचालित टैग may  operate at hundreds of meters .
Unlike a bar code , the tag does not necessarily need to be within  लकीर of sight of the रीडर  , and may be embedded in the tracked object .
RFID tags are  प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग  .
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track its  प्रगति through  the assembly line .
Pharmaceuticals can  be tracked through  warehouses .
Livestock and pets may have  टैग injected , allowing धनात्मक  identification of the animal .
Since RFID tags  can be संलग्न to कपडे , possessions , or भी  implanted within people , the possibility of reading personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns .
Id , ego and super-ego are the three parts of the psychic apparatus defined in  सिग्मुंड फ्रायड 's संरचनात्मक मॉडल of the psyche ; वे हैं the  three theoretical constructs in terms of whose activity and interaction mental life is described .
According to this model of the psyche , the id is the set of uncoordinated  instinctual रुझान ; the super-ego plays the नाजुक और moralizing भूमिका ; और  the ego is the organized , realistic part that mediates between the desires of the id and the super-ego .
The super-ego can stop you from doing  निश्चित बाते कि अपना id  may want you to do .
Even though the model is structural and makes reference to an apparatus , the id , ego and super-ego are functions of the mind rather than parts of the brain and do not  correspond one-to-one साथ वास्तविक दैहिक structures of  the kind dealt with by neuroscience .
The concepts themselves arose at a late stage in the development of Freud 's thought : the `` structural model '' ( which succeeded his `` economic model '' and `` topographical model '' ) was first discussed in his 1920 essay `` Beyond  the  Pleasure Principle `` and was formalized and elaborated upon three years later in his `` The Ego and the Id `` .
Freud 's proposal was  बहकावे by the ambiguity of the पद  `` unconscious `` and its many conflicting uses .
एयर फ़ोर्स  ROTC emblem
The Air Force  आरक्षित अधिकारी प्रशिक्षण  Corps ( AFROTC ) is one of the three primary commissioning sources for officers in the United States Air Force , the other two being the United States Air Force Academy ( USAFA ) and Air Force Officer Training School ( OTS ) .
A subordinate command of the Air University within the Air Education and Training Command  ( aetc ) , afrotc is लकीर अंतर्गत the jeanne M. holm बीच लिये अधिकारी  Accessions and Citizen Development at Maxwell AFB , Alabama .
The Holm Center , formerly known as the Air Force Officer  accession और प्रशिक्षण स्कूलों ( afoats ) , retains सीधा जिम्मेदारी लिये  both AFROTC and OTS .
AFROTC is  the largest और oldest सोर्स  of commissioned officers for the U.S. Air Force .
AFROTC 's stated mission is to produce quality  नेताओ लिये  the U.S. Air Force .
AFROTC units  हैं स्तिथ on 144 कॉलेज और विश्वविद्यालयों campuses साथ 984 अतिरिक्त संस्थानों of उच्चतर सीखना participating  in cross-town agreements that allow their students to attend AFROTC classes at a nearby `` host '' college or university .
According to AFOATS HQ , in 2006 ,  afrotc commissioned 2,083 यूएसएएफ दूसरी lieutenants  , with AFROTC enrollment ranging from 23,605 in 1985 to 10,231 in 1993 , and around 13,000 enrolled today .
AFROTC units at colleges and universities are called `` detachments , '' and are typically headed by an active duty USAF officer in the rank of colonel or lieutenant colonel who functions as both the Detachment  कमांडर लिये यूएसएएफ उद्देश्य और साथ the नाममात्र शीर्षक of प्राध्यापक of aerospace अध्ययन  ( PAS ) within the institution 's academic community .
Most  कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों  will designate the AFROTC detachment as the Department of Aerospace Studies .
The PAS is assisted by three to four Assistant Professors of Aerospace  अध्ययन ( apas ) , सब क्रियाशील ड्यूटी यूएसएएफ अधिकारियों  in the ranks of major or captain .
Three USAF non-commissioned officers and one senior non-commissioned officer will typically provide military  प्रशासनिक support और हैं प्रायः augmented by एक to दो civilian  staff support employees of the academic institution .
Within AFROTC detachments , the students ( referred to as ``  cadets '' ) हैं व्यवस्थित into  wings , groups , squadrons , and flights , mirroring the USAF functional wing structure .
The AFROTC detachment 's cadet wing or cadet group is separated into two divisions : the  सामान्य सैन्य कोर्स ( जीएमसी  ) consisting of the first two years of training , and the Professional Officer Course ( POC ) consisting of the last two years of training .
The AFROTC program is also  विभाजित into दो प्रशिक्षण कृत्यों : the अकादमिक कक्षा कार्यक्रम ( aerospace  Studies classes ) and Cadet Activities ( i.e. , Leadership Laboratory , Physical Training , and other training ) .
Paper density (  भी ज्ञात as आधार वज़न और grammage  ) is a term used in the pulp and paper industry and also for fabric industry to denote a measure of mass of the product per unit of area for a type of fabric , paper or paperboard .
The  पद `` घनत्व ''  is not used in its traditional sense of mass per unit volume .
``  पेपर घनत्व '' , बल्कि  , is a measure of the area density .
Paper products that let  छोटी or no लाइट pass through  ( e.g . poster board ) are considered dense or heavy .
Paper products that allow some light to pass through ( e.g .  ऊतक पेपर ) हैं माना  lightweight .
In the pulp and paper industry , it is common to set a commercial  पेपर यंत्र to उपज पेपर to  a target paper density .
Paper density can also be used to distinguish paper from paperboard as  the latter  usually has a grammage greater than 134 g/m2 .
Two ways of expressing paper  घनत्व हैं  commonly used:
Expressed in grams per square meter ( g/m2 ) , paper density  is भी ज्ञात as  grammage .
This is the measure  प्रयुक्त in  most parts of the world .
Expressed in terms of the mass (  expressed as वज़न ) प्रति  number of sheets , it is known as basis weight .
the सम्मेलन प्रयुक्त in the संयुक्त  States and a few other countries using US paper sizes is pounds of a ream of 500 ( or in some cases 1000 ) sheets of a given ( raw , still uncut ) basis size .
Japanese  पेपर is expressed  as the weight in kg of 1000 sheets .
Candace Nicole Parker  ( born अप्रैल 19 , 1986 ) is an अमरीकी बास्केट खिलाड़ी लिये the wnba  's Los Angeles Sparks and UMMC Ekaterinburg of Russia .
She  is the  younger sister of NBA player Anthony Parker .
She attended the University of Tennessee and was drafted by the  स्पार्क्स in 2008  .
She may be best known for  होने the पहला स्त्री to डंक in an ncaa टूर्नामेंट खेल और the पहला स्त्री  to dunk twice in a college game—she set both milestones as a redshirt freshman on March 19 , 2006 .
She also became only the second player to dunk in a  wnba खेल on जून  22 , 2008 .
A versatile player , she is mainly a forward , but was listed on Tennessee 's  रोस्टर as a आगे , बीच  , and guard .
She was  a प्रारंभ  on the Lady Vols basketball team , winners of the 2007 and 2008 NCAA championships .
Parker won the 2009 Nickelodeon Kids ' Choice award as the favorite  मादा खिलाड़ी in the खेल श्रेणी  .
And she was a guest star  on फिगर  It Out .
A food guide pyramid is a pyramid shaped guide of healthy foods  विभाजित into भाग  to show the recommended intake for each food group .
the पहला खाना पिरामिड  was published in Sweden in 1974 .
The most widely known food pyramid was introduced by the United States  विभाग of कृषि in the साल 1992 , थी अद्यतनीकृत in  2005 , and then replaced in 2011 .
Over 25 other countries and  संगठनों have भी प्रकाशित  food pyramids .
Hans Christian Andersen ( ; often referred to in Scandinavia as  H. C. andersen ; अप्रैल 2 , 1805august 4 , 1875 ) थी a डैनिश लेखक और कवि  .
Although a prolific writer of plays , travelogues , novels , and poems , Andersen is best remembered for his fairy tales , a literary genre he so mastered that he himself has  become as mythical as the किस्से  he wrote .
Andersen 's popularity  is नहीं सीमित to children  ; his stories—called , or `` fantastic tales '' —express themes that transcend age and nationality .
During his lifetime he was acclaimed for  having प्रसन्न children विश्वव्यापी  and was feted by royalty .
Andersen 's fairy tales , which have been translated into more than 125 languages , have become culturally embedded in the West 's collective consciousness , readily accessible to children , but presenting lessons  of पुण्य और resilience in the फेस of adversity लिये वयस्क पाठक as खूब  .
They have inspired motion pictures , plays , ballets , and  एनिमेटेड films  .
Two figures locking eyes in  caravaggio 's  The Fortune Teller
Eye contact occurs when `` two people look at each  अन्य 's आँखें at the  same time . ''
In human beings , eye contact is a form of nonverbal communication and is  विचार to have a विशाल  influence on social behavior .
Coined in  the जल्दी to mid-1960s , the पद रै आइये  in the West to often define the act as a meaningful and important sign of confidence and social communication .
The customs and significance of eye contact vary  widely between संस्कृतियों , साथ  religious and social differences often altering its meaning greatly .
The study of eye contact is  sometimes ज्ञात as  oculesics .
Bed bugs are parasitic insects of the cimicid family that feed  exclusively on  blood .
The term most commonly refers to  सदस्यों of the genus cimex of जिससे cimex lectularius , the आम  bed bug , is the best known as it prefers to feed on human blood although other Cimex species are specialized to other animals , e.g. , bat bugs , C. pipistrelli ( Europe ) , C. pilosellus ( western US ) , and C. adjunctus ( entire eastern US ) .
The name  of the `` bed कीड़ा '' is निकला इससे the पसन्दीदा  habitat of Cimex lectularius : warm houses and especially nearby or inside of beds and bedding or other sleep areas .
Bed bugs are mainly active at night , but are  नहीं exclusively nocturnal  .
They usually feed  on उनके  hosts without being noticed .
A number of adverse health effects may result from bed bug  bites , सहित स्किन rashes , मनोवैज्ञानिक  effects , and allergic symptoms .
Diagnosis involves  दोनो ढूंढना bed बग और the  occurrence of compatible symptoms .
Bed bugs have been known as human parasites  लिये हज़ारों of  years .
At  a पाइंट in the  early 1940s , they were mostly eradicated in the developed world , but have increased in prevalence since 1995 .
Because infestation of human habitats has been on the increase , bed bug  bites और सम्बन्धित शर्तें  have been on the rise as well .
The Book of Isaiah ( ) is the first of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible  , preceding ezekiel , यिर्मयाह और the  Book of the Twelve .
( The order of the  subsequent किताबे differs  somewhat in the Christian Old Testament ) .
The first 39 chapters prophesy doom for a sinful Judah and for all  the राष्ट्र of the संसार कि oppose परमेश्वर , जबकि the पिछला 27 prophesy the बहाली of the स्वदेश of इसराईल और a नई सृष्टि  in God 's glorious future kingdom ; this section includes the Songs of the Suffering Servant , four separate passages referring to the nation of Israel , interpreted by Christians as prefiguring the coming of Jesus Christ .
Tradition ascribes authorship of the book to Isaiah son of Amoz , but now scholars widely agree that the book is the work of three  अलग लेखक - few विद्वानों इनकार इस दृश्य , और those  that do , do so for theological reasons .
The first , termed Proto-Isaiah ( chapters 1–39 ) , contains the words of the 8th-century BCE prophet with 7th-century BCE expansions ; the second , Deutero-Isaiah ( chapters 40–55 ) , is the work of a 6th-century BCE author writing near the end of the Babylonian captivity ; and the third , the poetic Trito-Isaiah ( chapters  56–66 ) , थी रचित in जेरूसलम shortly बाद the वापसी इससे निर्वासन ,  probably by multiple authors .
Oregon State University (  osu ) is a  coeducational , public research university located in Corvallis , Oregon , United States .
The university offers  undergraduate , ग्रैजुएट और डॉक्टरेट  degrees and a multitude of research opportunities .
There are more than 200 academic  उपाधि कार्यक्रम offered through  the university .
OSU 's programs in microbiology , nuclear engineering , ecology ,  वानिकी , पब्लिक  health , biochemistry , zoology , oceanography , food science and pharmacy are recognized nationally as top tier programs .
The  osu 's उदार कला कार्यक्रम  have also grown significantly and the department is considered a `` cornerstone '' of the institution .
More than 200,000 people have attended OSU  चूंकि इसके founding  .
The Carnegie Foundation classifies Oregon State University as part of its  शीर्ष टियर of शोध संस्थानों  .
As of 2008 , OSU is one of  तभी seventy-three  land-grant universities .
The school is also recognized as a sea-grant , space-grant and sun-grant institution , making it one of only two US institutions to retain all four designations and the only  पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों to do  so ( Cornell is the only other with similar designations ) .
As one of the two flagship universities of the Oregon  विश्वविद्यालयों प्रणाली , osu receives  more funding for research , annually , than all other public higher education institutions in Oregon combined .
Female ejaculation is the expulsion of fluid by human females from the paraurethral ducts through and around  the मादा urethra दौरान or पहले  an orgasm .
It is also  ज्ञात colloquially as gushing or squirting , हालांकि ये हैं  considered to be different phenomena in some research publications .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue  to be a टॉपिक of बहस among चिकित्सा पेशेवर ,  which is also related to doubts over the existence of the G-Spot .
The Kanab ambersnail , scientific name Oxyloma haydeni kanabensis or Oxyloma kanabense , is a critically endangered subspecies or species of small , air-breathing land snail , a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in  the परिवार succineidae , the एम्बर  snails .
the आम नाम of the एम्बर घोंघे is आधारित  on the shell , which is translucent and when empty usually resembles amber in color .
This species is endemic to the United States , specifically the state of Arizona and  यूटा , जहाँ it थी पहला एकत्रित  in the early 20th century .
It has been listed as  endangered on the संयुक्त राज्य मछली और वन्यजीव सेवा  list of endangered species since 8 August 1991 .
This snail lives in wetlands , springs , and seeps , and only two of its natural habitats are known to exist : Three  झीलों , a मर्ग निकट kanab , यूटा , और vasey 's स्वर्ग , a वसन्त साथ the कोलोराडो नदी भीतर ग्रैंड  Canyon National Park .
In its natural habitat  it is बल्कि polyphagous , feeding मुख्यतः  on bacteria , plants and fungi , and reproduces during the summer .
Now considered a Critically Endangered species  on the आईयूसीएन रेड सूची of threatened प्रजाति due to a श्रेणी of कारकों  ( including influence ) , the Kanab ambersnail has been reintroduced to three springs above the historic high water level along the Colorado River .
The Spanish language is the second  सबसे प्रयुक्त भाषा in the संयुक्त  States .
There are more Spanish speakers in the United States than there are speakers of Chinese , French ,  जर्मनी , इतालवी , हवाई  , and the Native American languages combined .
According to the 2010 American Community Survey conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau ,  स्पेनी is the प्राथमिक भाषा बोला at घर  by almost 37 million people aged five or older , a figure more than double that of 1990 .
There are 45 million Hispanophones who speak Spanish as a first or second language , as well as six million Spanish  भाषा विद्यार्थी , composing the largest नेशनल spanish-speaking  community outside of Mexico and making Spanish the Romance language and the Indo-European language with largest number of native speakers in the world .
Roughly half of all U.S. Spanish speakers also  बोलो अंग्रेज़ी `` बहुत खूब , '' आधारित  on the self-assessment Census question respondents .
The language came to the country since the 16th and  17th सदियां साथ the आगमन of स्पेनी colonists in क्षेत्रों कि होता बाद  become the states of Florida , Texas , Colorado , New Mexico , Arizona , Nevada , Utah , and California and of the Spanish explorers - who explored areas of 42 states- .
Also west of Louisiana Territory was Spanish between 1763 - 1800 ( year of the French recovery of territory ) ,  बाद the फ्रेंच और भारतीय  War .
After of the incorporation of these states to the U.S. in first half of 19th century ,  the स्पेनी भाषा थी बाद reinforced by the अधिग्रहण of प्यूर्टो रीको in 1898 और by  later waves of the Hispanic emigration , basically from Hispanic America , to the United States beginning in the second half of 19th century until today .
is a Latin word that means `` thus '' or , in writing , `` it was thus  in the सोर्स सामग्री  '' .
Sic may also  refer  to:
Sic , Cluj , a commune  in रोमानिया
SIC , the regional code  लिये  Sicily
Sic ( noise artist ) , styled as [ sic ] , stage name of Jennifer Morris , a  कनाडाई रव कलाकार
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash metal  बैंड इससे torshavn ,  the capital of the Faroe Islands
``  ( sic ) ''  , a song by American band Slipknot on the album Slipknot
SIC , the initial  of  Marco Simoncelli .
SIC as an  एक्रोनिम may  stand for:
SiC ,  सिलिकॉन  carbide , a semiconducting material , also used to make metalworking tools
sic ( cyclecar  ) ( Società Italiana Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification , a 20th-century U.S.  प्रणाली लिये classifying उद्योग
International Standard  औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण a  UN system for economic activities
शेटलैंड  Islands Council
the स्विस interbank  Clearing system
San Isidro Club  , an अर्जेंटाइन  rugby union club
Standing Interpretation  कमेटी , a कमेटी समर्पित to the निर्वचन  of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information  मानदंड in the फ़ील्ड  of statistics
Second-in-command  in the फ़ील्ड  of aviation
Sistema  interconectado  Central power grid in Chile
Sociedade Independente de  comunicação  ( SIC ) , a television channel in Portugal
Sea  आइल नगर , नई  Jersey , a coastal town in the United States
Segmented  पूर्णांक काउंटर विधि  , a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सर्किट , a  high-end racetrack that hosts the Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International Circuit , a motor racing  स्थान in शंघाई  , China
Simplified  निर्देशात्मक कंप्यूटर , a काल्पनिक  computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons Idées Couleurs ) , an early  twentieth-century आर्ट पत्रिका उत्पादित  by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
southeastern इलिनोइस  College , a two year Junior College in Harrisburg , Illinois , United States
Specific inductive capacity , abbreviated to SIC , which is more commonly known as the relative  विद्युतशीलता or the परावैद्युत निरंतर
St Ignatius ' College , Riverview , a Jesuit school in  सिडनी , ऑस्ट्रेलिया
alt=Five  मुस्कुराना यंग लड़कियों in विभिन्न मुद्राएँ  wearing white smocks over thigh-length dresses of similar color to their hair .
The  टोकियो mew mew manga और दुश्मनी  series features a cast of characters designed by Mia Ikumi .
The series  takes प्लेस in टोकियो , जापानी , जहाँ पाँच adolescent लड़कियों , पुकारा  Mew Mews , are infused with the DNA of endangered species to combat aliens attempting to take over the Earth .
The manga series is followed by a short sequel series , Tokyo Mew Mew a la Mode , which  introduces a नई mew mew और a नई threat  .
The Mew Mews are led by the main character , Ichigo Momomiya  , जिनकी पहला कार्य is to एकत्रित the अन्य चार mew mews : मिंट aizawa  , Lettuce Midorikawa , Pudding Fong , and Zakuro Fujiwara .
As the series progresses , Ichigo  goes इससे having a crush on masaya aoyama to  becoming his girlfriend while trying to hide her secret double life from him .
The series antagonists include three aliens , Kish , Pie , and Tart , and  उनके नेता  , Deep Blue .
Originally from Earth , the aliens were forced to leave long ago due to  घातक पर्यावरणीय परिवर्तन  .
They have returned to kill the humans , who they feel are destroying their  ग्रह , और reclaim the ग्रह  .
In a la Mode , middle school student Berry Shirayuki is introduced as the sixth Mew Mew and , in the absence  of ichigo , the अस्थाई नेता  of the Mew Mews .
A la Mode also introduces new  नियत of antagonists , the  Saint Rose Crusaders , a group of human teenagers with various psychic abilities with a desire to create their own utopia .
Led by Duke , they make several attempts to  मार बेरी ,  eventually turning the local populace against the Mew Mews .
ikumi 's आरंभिक दृष्टि लिये टोकियो  Mew Mew was a story called Tokyo Black Cat Girl that featured a cat-girl battling alien invaders .
After the  स्टोरी थी transitioned to a  more upbeat story of five female superheroes , the character designs were redone to have a lighter , more colorful feel .
The main series characters were praised for  होने a पूर्ण अनुरूप लिये the overall स्टोरी  , as well as for their cute appearances .
The characters introduced in a la Mode  यहूद भी praised  for their visual appearances , but criticized as being repeats of the original series .
The character Duke was also criticized for having a  डिज़ाइन reminiscent of the श्वेत  supremacy group , the Ku Klux Klan .
Middle Triassic marginal marine sequence of siltstones ( below ) and  limestones ( ऊपर ) , वर्जिन गठन  , southwestern Utah , USA
Sedimentary rocks are types of  चट्टान कि हैं formed by the deposition  of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water .
Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles ( detritus ) to settle and  accumulate or खनिज to precipitate इससे  a solution .
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by  accumulating हैं पुकारा sediment  .
Before  होने deposited , sediment थी formed  by weathering and erosion in a source area , and then transported to the place of deposition by water , wind , ice , mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation .
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth 's crust is extensive , but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8 % of the  कुल आवाज़  of the crust .
Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer  over a क्रस्ट consisting  mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks .
Sedimentary rocks are deposited in layers as strata , forming a  ढांचा पुकारा bedding .
The study of sedimentary  रॉक्स और चट्टान strata provides  information about the subsurface that is useful for civil engineering , for example in the construction of roads , houses , tunnels , canals or other constructions .
Sedimentary rocks are also important sources of natural resources like coal , fossil fuels ,  पीने  water or ores .
The study of the sequence  of sedimentary चट्टान strata is the प्रमुख सोर्स लिये वैज्ञानिक  knowledge about the Earth 's history , including palaeogeography , paleoclimatology and the history of life .
the वैज्ञानिक अनुशासन  that studies the properties and origin of sedimentary rocks is called sedimentology .
Sedimentology is both part of geology and physical geography and overlaps partly with other disciplines in the Earth sciences  , ऐसे as pedology , geomorphology  , geochemistry or structural geology .
350px
Humans are born  साथ over 270 हड्डियों , कुछ of  which fuse together into a longitudinal axis , the axial skeleton , to which the appendicular skeleton is attached .
संत पैट्रिक ( ; ; आधुनिक ; ; c. 387 – 17 कूच  c. 460 or c. 492 ) was a Romano-British Christian missionary and bishop in Ireland .
Known as the `` Apostle of Ireland '' , he is the  प्राथमिक संरक्षक संत of the  island along with Saints Brigid and Columba .
Two authentic letters from him survive ,  इससे जिससे आइये the तभी  generally accepted details of his life .
When he was about 16 ,  he थी captured इससे उसके घर और  taken as a slave to Ireland , where he lived for six years before escaping and returning to his family .
After  बनने  a cleric , he returned to northern and western Ireland as an ordained bishop , but little is known about the places where he worked .
By the seventh century , he had already come to be revered as  the संरक्षक संत  of Ireland .
Most available details of his  जीवन हैं इससे subsequent hagiographies  , and these are now not accepted without detailed criticism .
The Annals of Ulster state that he arrived in Ireland in 432 ,  ministered in ulster around  443 , and died in 457 or 461 .
The text , however , distinguishes between `` Old Patrick '' ( thought to mean Palladius  ) और `` पैट्रिक , archapostle  of the Scots , '' who died in 492 .
The actual dates of Patrick 's life can not be fixed with certainty but ,  on a फैली निर्वचन , he  was active as a missionary in Ireland during the second half of the 5th century .
he is generally credited साथ होने  the first bishop of Armagh , Primate of All Ireland .
Saint  पैट्रिक 's दिन  is observed on March 17 , the date of his death .
It is celebrated both inside and outside Ireland , as both a religious and , especially  बाहर आयरलैंड , धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश  .
In the dioceses of Ireland , it is  दोनो a solemnity और a पावन दिन of दायित्व  ; outside Ireland , it can be a celebration of Ireland itself .
Line  खण्ड in  the golden ratio
A golden rectangle with longer side a and shorter side b , when placed adjacent to a  square  with sides of length a , will produce a similar golden rectangle with longer side a + b and shorter side a .
This  illustrates  the relationship .
In mathematics and  the कला , दो quantities हैं  in the golden ratio if the ratio of the sum of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one .
The figure on the right  illustrates the ज्यामितीय  relationship .
Expressed  algebraically:
where the Greek letter phi ( ) represents the golden  अनुपात  .
Its  मान is:
The golden ratio  is भी पुकारा the सुनहरी  section ( Latin : sectio aurea ) or golden mean .
Other names include extreme and mean ratio , medial section , divine proportion , divine section (  लैटिन : sectio  divina ) , golden proportion , golden cut , and golden number .
Many 20th century artists and architects have proportioned their works to approximate the golden ratio—especially in the form of the golden rectangle , in which  the अनुपात of the longer पक्ष to the shorter is the सुनहरी ratio—believing इस proportion  to be aesthetically pleasing ( see Applications and observations below ) .
Mathematicians since Euclid have studied the properties of the golden ratio , including its appearance in the dimensions of a regular pentagon and in a golden rectangle ,  जिससे can be काटें into a वर्गाकार और a छोटी  rectangle with the same aspect ratio .
The golden ratio has also been used to analyze the proportions of natural objects as  खूब as man-made प्रणालियों ऐसे as  financial markets , in some cases based on dubious fits to data .
North Myrtle Beach is a coastal resort city in Horry County , South Carolina ,  संयुक्त राज्य  .
It was created in 1968 from four existing municipalities north of Myrtle Beach , and serves as one of the primary  पर्यटक कस्बों साथ the  Grand Strand .
The population was  13,752 at the 2010  census .
World War I ( WWI ) was a  वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय  that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of  संसार युद्ध ii in 1939 , और the पहला  World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing  alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम  , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
ये alliances यहूद दोनो reorganised  and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
ultimately , अधिक than 70 लाख सैन्य कर्मियों , सहित 60  million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More  than 9 लाख combatants यहूद मारे , largely  because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the  fifth- deadliest विरोध  in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of  the युद्ध थी the पुनरुत्थान  of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great powers of Europe .
अधिक तत्काल , the हत्या of archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड of ऑस्ट्रिया , the वारिस  to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed  over the पिछला  decades were invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread  around the संसार  .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired  the पहला गोलियाँ of the युद्ध as तैयारी  for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on  the रास्ता to फ़्रांस , providing a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा  of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called  चमत्कार of the marne —the पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ  a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the  austro-hungarians , लकिन थी रोका in इसके आक्रमण  of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire joined the war ,  खोलने up fronts in the काकेशस ,  Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915 and Romania  in 1916  .
In Russia , the tsar 's  सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a subsequent क्रान्ति  in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American  शक्तियां began प्रवेश  the trenches .
Germany ,  जिससे था इसके अपना  trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in  विजय लिये the  Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous  as on the बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार  tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial  powers—the जर्मनी , रूसी , austro-hungarian  and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two  खोया a ग्रेट  amount of territory , while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe was  redrawn into अनेक  smaller states .
The League  of राष्ट्र थी  formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with  the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing  to World War II .
Camden  is a नगर in  Camden County , New Jersey , United States .
It is the county seat ,  स्तिथ आरपार the  Delaware River from Philadelphia .
As of the 2010 United States Census the city had a total population of 77,344 , representing a  मनाही of 2,560 ( 3.2 % ) इससे the 79,904 निवासियों enumerated दौरान the 2000 जनसांख्यिकी , जिससे था in फेरे  declined by 7,588 ( 8.7 % ) from the 87,492 counted in the 1990 Census .
Camden ranked as  the 12th-most populous नगरपालिका in  the state in 2010 after having been ranked 10th in 2000 .
Camden was originally incorporated as a  नगर on फ़रवरी 13 ,  1828 , from portions of the now-defunct Newton Township , while the area was still part of Gloucester County .
On March 13 , 1844 , Camden became part of the  newly formed camden  County .
Although once a thriving center for manufacturing and industry , Camden is perhaps best  ज्ञात लिये इसके struggles साथ  urban dysfunction .
Three Camden mayors  have महरूम jailed लिये भ्रष्टाचार , the  most recent being Milton Milan in 2000 .
Since 2005 the school system  और पुलिस विभाग have महरूम संचालित by the  state of New Jersey ; the takeover expired in 2012 .
In 2008 , Camden had the highest crime rate in the U.S. with 2,333 violent crimes per 100,000 people  जबकि the नेशनल औसत  was 455 per 100,000 .
Camden public schools spent $ 23,770 per student ( $ 19,118 on a  budgetary per-pupil आधार ) in the 2009–10 स्कूल साल  and two-thirds of the students graduate .
Two out of every five  निवासियों हैं नीचे  the national poverty line .
Amitriptyline ( Tryptomer , Elavil , Tryptizol , Laroxyl , Saroten , Sarotex , Lentizol ,  endep ) is a tricyclic antidepressant ( tca )  .
It is the most widely used TCA and has at least equal efficacy against depression as the newer class of SSRIs  according  to a study from early 2001 .
As well as reducing depressive symptoms , these types of  tricyclics भी आसानी migraines , टेंशन  headaches , anxiety attacks and some schizophrenic symptoms .
It is also known to reduce aggression and  हिंसक बर्ताव  .
A computer is a general purpose device that can be programmed to carry out a  परिमित नियत of गणित  or logical operations .
Since a sequence of operations can  be readily बदला , the कंप्यूटर  can solve more than one kind of problem .
conventionally , a कंप्यूटर consists of at तनिक  one processing element , typically a central processing unit ( CPU ) and some form of memory .
The processing element  carries आउट  arithmetic and logic operations , and a sequencing and control unit that can change the order of operations based on stored information .
Peripheral devices allow information to be  पुनर्प्राप्त इससे an बाह्य सोर्स , और the परिणाम of  operations saved and retrieved .
The first electronic digital computers  यहूद विकसित between  1940 and 1945 in the United Kingdom and United States .
Originally they were the size of a large room , consuming as much power as  अनेक सौ आधुनिक  personal computers ( PCs ) .
in इस era mechanical  analog computers were used for military applications .
Modern computers based on integrated circuits are millions to billions of times more capable than the early machines , and  occupy a भिन्न of the स्पेस  .
Simple computers are  छोटी पर्याप्त to अनुरूप into  mobile devices , and mobile computers can be powered by small batteries .
Personal computers in their various forms are  प्रतीक of the सूचना आयु  and are what most people think of as “computers.”
however , the अंतःस्थापित कंप्यूटर मिला in अनेक डिवाइस  from MP3 players to fighter aircraft and from toys to industrial robots are the most numerous .
`` Barefoot and pregnant '' is a phrase most commonly associated with the controversial idea that women should not work  बाहर the घर और चाहिए have अनेक children दौरान  their reproductive years .
It has several other  meanings as  well .
It is a figure  of  speech .
the phrase `` barefoot  and pregnant '' was probably first used sometime before 1950 .
An article  इससे 1949 राज्य , `` by  early 1949 , TWA was—in the words of its new president , Ralph S. Damon—both 'barefoot and pregnant . ' ''
Its usage may  तिथि as जल्दी as  the 1910s .
An article published in 1958 states the  phrase थी पहला प्रयुक्त  by a `` Dr. Hertzler '' 40 years earlier .
`` Some forty years ago , Dr. Hertzler advanced a hypothesis which young  महिलाओं of आज seem झुकी  on proving correct. '
The  तभी रास्ता to रखना a स्त्री  happy , ' he said , 'is to keep her barefoot and pregnant . ' ''
Oakhurst is a census-designated place and unincorporated community within Ocean Township , in Monmouth County  , नई जर्सी , संयुक्त राज्य  .
As of the 2010 United  राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ,  the CDP 's population was 3,995 .
University of Phoenix Stadium ,  खोली अगस्त 1 , 2006  , is a multipurpose football stadium located in Glendale , Arizona .
It is the home of the Arizona Cardinals of the National Football League (  एनएफएल ) और the सालाना पर्व  Bowl .
The stadium is located next door to the  jobing.com एरिना और it सुविधाएँ the पहला fully retractable प्राकृतिक  grass playing surface built in the United States on top of an AirField Systems drainage system .
An opening on one side of the stadium allows the playing field to move to the  exterior of the भवन , allowing the संपूर्ण  natural turf playing surface to be exposed to daylight .
The stadium has hosted Super Bowl XLII , and the 2011 BCS National Championship Game , a  खेल कि it होस्ट प्रत्येक चार सालो ,  which set the venue 's entertainment attendance record of 78,603 on January 11 , 2011 .
It will again host Super  कटोरी xlix in 2015  .
The University of Phoenix acquired the naming rights in September 2006 , shortly after the  स्टेडियम था खोली अंतर्गत the  name Cardinals Stadium .
The `` University of Phoenix `` name  is लागू as a कॉरपोरेट  sponsor , and not as the home stadium of the University ( which has no intercollegiate athletics program ) .
The stadium has also hosted the WWE event WrestleMania XXVI  साथ 72,219 प्रशंसक in उपस्थिति  .
The event was held in the stadium  on कूच  28th 2010 .
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain ( September 8 , 1828 – February 24 , 1914 ) , born as Lawrence Joshua Chamberlain , was an American college professor from the State of Maine , who  volunteered दौरान the अमरीकी  Civil War to join the Union Army .
Although having no earlier education in military strategies , he became a highly respected and decorated Union officer , reaching the rank of brigadier  सामान्य ( और brevet  major general ) .
For his gallantry  at gettysburg , he  was awarded the Medal of Honor .
He was given the honor of commanding the Union troops at the surrender ceremony for the infantry of Robert E.  ली 's  Army at Appomattox , Virginia .
After the war , he entered politics as a Republican and served four one-year  शर्तें of दफ्तर  as the 32nd Governor of Maine .
He served on the faculty , and as president , of  उसके अल्मा मेटर ,  Bowdoin College .
An inning , or innings , is a fixed-length segment of a game in any of a variety of sports – most  notably क्रिकेट और बेसबॉल दौरान जिससे एक टोली कोशिशें  to score while the other team attempts to prevent the first from scoring .
In cricket , the term innings is both  एकवचन और  plural and is always spelled and pronounced with the terminal `` s '' .
In baseball and softball , the singular form is inning  और तभी the बहुवचन takes an ``  s '' .
In  अनेक अन्य खेल , the लंबाई of the खेल is लिखवाई by a क्लॉक और टीमों  swap offensive and defensive roles dynamically by taking possession of a ball or similar item .
In baseball and cricket , however , one team , said to be `` batting '' , attempts to score  `` रनों '' —see चलाएं ( बेसबॉल ) और चलाएं ( क्रिकेट ) —while the  other team , said to be `` fielding '' , attempts to prevent the scoring of runs and get members of the batting team out .
The  टीमों स्विच स्थान बाद the क्षेत्ररक्षण टोली रै succeeded  in getting a fixed number of players out , making a clock unnecessary .
In cricket ,  the पद पारी is भी प्रयुक्त  to refer to the play of one particular player ( Smith had a poor innings , scoring only 12 ) .
By extension , this term can be used in British English for almost any activity which takes a  काल of समय ( the उदार सरकारी था a शुभ पारी , लकिन आखिरकार खोया  office in 1972 , or You 've had a fair innings , now it 's my turn , meaning `` you have spoken for long enough , now let me speak '' ) .
It is also used in  सन्दर्भ to किसी जो रै died  at a reasonably old age or lived a rich and rewarding life ( Ah , well .
John  थी 89  .
At least he had  a शुभ  innings ) .
The  baseball-derived समानांतर  to this in American English is the term at bat .
According to the Oxford English  शब्दकोष , the पद पारी  has been used in reference to cricket since at least 1735 .
As cricket was a mature , highly organized sport in the 1600s in England  , the पद 's उत्पत्ति could खूब precede  this first recorded usage .
The word  inning अर्थ 'a महफ़िल  in ' is first recorded in 1522 , and could be related .
Adenosine deaminase deficiency , also  पुकारा एडीए  deficiency or ADA-SCID , is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder that causes immunodeficiency .
It occurs  in कम than एक in  100,000 live births worldwide .
It accounts for about 15 % of all cases of severe  संयुक्त immunodeficiency ( scid  ) .
It is very rare  , तुम have a 3 % मौका  of getting this gene .
ADA deficiency may be present in infancy ,  बाल्यकाल , adolescense , or  adulthood .
Age of onset and severity is related  to कुछ 29 ज्ञात  genotypes associated with the disorder .
An example of urban  गरीबी in इस slum  in Jakarta , Indonesia
Poverty is  the राज्य of एक जो lacks a निश्चित  amount of material possessions or money .
Absolute  गरीबी or destitution refers  to the deprivation of basic human needs , which commonly includes food , water , sanitation , clothing , shelter , health care and education .
Relative poverty is defined  contextually as आर्थिक असमानता in the  location or society in which people live .
For much of history , poverty was considered largely unavoidable as traditional modes of production were insufficient to  दे an संपूर्ण जनसांख्यिकी  a comfortable standard of living .
After the industrial  क्रान्ति , द्रव्यमान उत्पादन in कारखानों बना माल  increasingly more inexpensive and accessible .
Of  अधिक महत्व is the modernization  of agriculture , such as fertilizers , in order to provide enough yield to feed the population .
The supply of basic  needs can be प्रतिबंधित by constraints  on government services such as corruption , tax avoidance , debt and loan conditionalities and by the brain drain of health care and educational professionals .
Strategies of increasing income to make basic needs more affordable typically include welfare , economic  freedoms , और providing वित्तीय सेवाएं  .
Poverty reduction is a major goal  और समस्या लिये अनेक अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन  such as the United Nations and the World Bank .
The World  बैंको अनुमानित 1.29 अरब लोगों  were living in absolute poverty in 2008 .
Of these , about 400  लाख लोगों in निरपेक्ष गरीबी  lived in India and 173 million people in China .
In USA 1 in 5  children  lives in poverty .
In terms of percentage of regional  populations , sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी at  47 % had the highest incidence rate of absolute poverty in 2008 .
Between 1990 and 2010 ,  परिचय 663 लाख  people moved above the absolute poverty level .
Still , extreme poverty is a global challenge ; it is observed in  सब भाग of the संसार , सहित the  developed economies .
Mushroom poisoning ( also known as mycetism ) refers to harmful  प्रभाव इससे ingestion  of toxic substances present in a mushroom .
These  लक्षण can vary  from slight gastrointestinal discomfort to death .
The toxins present are  द्वितीयक metabolites  produced in specific biochemical pathways in the fungal cells .
Mushroom poisoning is usually the result of  ingestion of जंगली मशरूम बाद  misidentification of a toxic mushroom as an edible species .
The most common  कारण लिये इस misidentification is बंद प्रतिरूप  in terms of colour and general morphology of the toxic mushrooms species with edible species .
Even very experienced wild mushroom  gatherers हैं upon विरल अवसर poisoned by खाने विषाक्त  species , despite being well aware of the risks , through carelessness .
To prevent mushroom poisoning ,  मशरूम gatherers need to be बहुत परिचित साथ the  mushrooms they intend to collect as well as with any similar-looking toxic species .
In addition , edibility  of मशरूम may निर्भर on विधि of तैयारी  for cooking .
Collectors also need to be well aware  कि edibility or toxicity  of some species varies with geographic location .
Human height is the distance from the bottom of the feet to the top of the head in a  इंसान देह , खड़ा वीर्यपात  .
When populations share genetic  पृष्ठभूमि और पर्यावरणीय कारकों  , average height is frequently characteristic within the group .
Exceptional  ऊँचाई विभिन्नता ( around 20 % विचलन इससे  average ) within such a population is sometimes due to gigantism or dwarfism , which are medical conditions caused by specific genes or endocrine abnormalities .
In regions of extreme poverty or prolonged warfare , environmental factors like chronic malnutrition during childhood or adolescence may  खाता  for delayed growth and/or ( in severe cases ) marked reductions in adult stature even without the presence of any of these medical conditions .
Apollo 11 was the spaceflight that  उतरा the पहला  humans , Americans Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin , on the Moon on July 20 , 1969 , at 20:18 UTC .
Armstrong became the first to step onto the  चंद्र सतह 6 घंटों बाद  on July 21 at 02:56 UTC .
Armstrong spent about two and a  हाफ घंटों बाहर the  spacecraft , Aldrin slightly less ; and together they collected of lunar material for return to Earth .
A third member of the mission , Michael Collins , piloted  the कमांड spacecraft अलोन in चंद्र कक्षा जबतक आर्मस्ट्रांग और एल्ड्रिन  returned to it just under a day later for the trip back to Earth .
Launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center in  merritt द्वीप , फ्लोरिडा on जुलाई 16 , अपोलो 11 थी the  fifth manned mission of NASA 's Apollo program .
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts : a Command Module with a cabin for the three astronauts which was  the तभी भाग जिससे उतरा वापस on धरती ; a सेवा मोड्यूल जिससे समर्थित the कमांड मोड्यूल साथ नोदन  , electrical power , oxygen and water ; and a Lunar Module for landing on the Moon .
After being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V 's upper stage , the astronauts  अलग the  spacecraft from it and travelled for three days until they entered into lunar orbit .
Armstrong and  एल्ड्रिन तब स्थानांतरित into  the Lunar Module and landed in the Sea of Tranquility .
They stayed a total of  परिचय  21 and a half hours on the lunar surface .
After lifting off in the upper part of the Lunar Module and rejoining Collins in the Command Module , they returned to  धरती और उतरा in the प्रशांत समंदर on  July 24 .
Broadcast  on सजीव tv to a world-wide दर्शक , आर्मस्ट्रांग stepped  onto the lunar surface and described the event as `` one small step for [ a ] man , one giant leap for mankind . ''
Apollo 11 effectively ended the Space Race and fulfilled a national goal proposed in 1961 by the late U.S. President  जॉन F. कैनेडी in a वाक पहले the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस , `` पहले इस  decade is out , of landing a man on the Moon and returning him safely to the Earth . ''
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of the members  of fédération internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ  ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
The championship  रै महरूम awarded प्रत्येक चार  years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The current  champions हैं स्पेन , जो जीती  the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the  टूर्नामेंट involves 32 टीमों स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues  within the host nation ( s ) over a period of about a month ; this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place over the preceding three years , is used to  determine जिससे टीमों qualify लिये  the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup  tournaments have महरूम जीती by आठ अलग  national teams .
Brazil have won five  टाइम्स , और वे हैं the  only team to have played in every tournament .
The other World Cup winners are Italy , with four titles ; Germany , with three titles ; Argentina  और inaugural विजेता उरुग्वे , साथ दो शीर्षक  each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is the world 's most widely viewed  sporting इवेंट ; an अनुमानित 715.1 लाख  people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World Cups will be hosted by Brazil in 2014 ,  रूस in 2018 , और क़तर  in 2022 .
Genocide is a term coined in 1944 by  राफेल lemkin to describe the deliberate  and systematic destruction , in whole or in part , of an ethnic , racial , religious , or national group .
It is defined in Article 2 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide ( CPPCG ) of 1948 as `` any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , as such : killing members of the group ; causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group ; deliberately inflicting on the groups conditions of  जीवन , गणना to लाओ परिचय इसके शारीरिक विनाश in पूरे or in भाग ; imposing उपायों intended to prevent births भीतर the समूह ; [ और ] forcibly transferring children  of the group to another group . ''
Skulls of   victims of the Rwandan Genocide
The preamble to  the cppcg नहीं तभी राज्य कि `` नरसंहार is a अपराधों अंतर्गत अंतरराष्ट्रीय  law , contrary to the spirit and aims of the United Nations and condemned by the civilized world '' , but also that `` at all periods of history genocide has inflicted great losses on humanity '' .
Determining what historical  कार्यक्रम constitute a नरसंहार और जिससे  are merely criminal or inhuman behavior is not a clear-cut matter .
In nearly every  मामला जहाँ आरोपों of नरसंहार have परिचालित , partisans of विभिन्न  sides have fiercely disputed the interpretation and details of the event , often to the point of promoting wildly different versions of the facts .
An accusation of genocide is certainly not taken lightly and  होगा लगभग सदा be विवादास्पद  .
The following list of genocides and alleged genocides should be understood in this context and can not be  regarded as the फाइनल शब्द on ये  subjects .
A timing belt is a non-slipping  mechanical ड्राइव  belt and the term may refer to either:
Toothed belt , a flexible belt with teeth  moulded onto  its inner surface
Timing belt ( camshaft ) , a toothed belt used to drive  the camshaft ( s ) भीतर  an internal combustion engine
The culture of the United States is primarily a Western culture , but is also influenced by Native American ,  अफ़्रीकी , एशियाई , पोलिनेशियाई , और लैटिन अमरीकी संस्कृतियों  .
अमरीकी संस्कृति प्रारंभ इसके गठन over 10,000 सालो  ago with the migration of Paleo-Indians from Asia into the region that is today the continental United States .
It has its own unique social and cultural characteristics such as dialect , music ,  कला , सोशल आदतें , भोजन  , and folklore .
The United States  of अमेरिका is an ethnically और racially विविध देश  as a result of large-scale immigration from many different countries throughout its history .
Its  मुख्य जल्दी यूरोपीय प्रभाव आए  from English , Scottish , Welsh and Irish settlers of colonial America during British rule .
British culture , due to colonial ties with Britain that spread the English language , legal system  और अन्य सांस्कृतिक inheritances , था a formative  influence .
Other important influences came from other parts of western Europe ,  विशेषकर जर्मनी , फ़्रांस ,  and Italy .
Original elements also play a strong role , such  as the आविष्कार  of Jeffersonian democracy .
Thomas Jefferson 's Notes on the State of Virginia was perhaps the first influential domestic cultural critique by an American and a reactionary piece to the prevailing  यूरोपीय सर्वसम्मति कि अमेरिका 's घरेलू मौलिकता  was degenerate .
Prevalent ideas and ideals that evolved domestically , such as national holidays , uniquely American sports , military tradition , and innovations in the arts and  entertainment दे a दमदार भाव of नेशनल अभिमान  among the population as a whole .
American culture includes both conservative and liberal elements , scientific and religious competitiveness , political structures , risk taking and free expression , materialist and moral  तत्व  .
Despite certain consistent ideological principles ( e.g . individualism , egalitarianism , and faith in freedom and democracy ) ,  अमरीकी संस्कृति रै a किस्में of expressions due to इसके भौगोलिक स्केल और जनसांख्यिकी  diversity .
The flexibility of U.S. culture and its highly symbolic nature lead some researchers to categorize American culture as a mythic  पहचान ; अन्य देखिए it as अमरीकी  exceptionalism .
It also includes elements that evolved from Indigenous Americans , and other ethnic cultures—most prominently the culture of African  अमेरिकी , संस्कृतियों इससे लैटिन अमेरिका , और एशियाई अमरीकी संस्कृतियों  .
Many American cultural elements , especially from  लोकप्रिय संस्कृति , have स्प्रेड  across the globe through modern mass media .
The United States has often been thought of as a  melting घट , लकिन शुरूआत in the लेट 1990s और जल्दी 2000s  , it trends towards cultural diversity , pluralism and the image of a salad bowl instead .
due to the extent of अमरीकी संस्कृति  , there are many integrated but unique social subcultures within the United States .
The cultural  संबद्धों an व्यक्तिगत in the संयुक्त राज्य may have commonly निर्भर  on social class , political orientation and a multitude of demographic characteristics such as religious background , occupation and ethnic group membership .
Samoan ( Gagana fa'a Sāmoa or Gagana  sāmoa — आईपीए : ) is the भाषा of the samoan  Islands , comprising the independent country of Samoa and the United States territory of American Samoa .
It is an official  language—alongside अंग्रेज़ी —in दोनो  jurisdictions .
Samoan , a Polynesian  भाषा , is the पहला भाषा लिये  most of the Samoa Islands ' population of about 246,000 .
With many Samoan people living in other countries , the total number of  अध्यक्षों विश्वव्यापी is अनुमानित at 370,000  .
The language is notable for  the phonological मतभेद  between formal and informal speech as well as a ceremonial form used in Samoan oratory .
A glucose tolerance test is a medical test in which glucose is given and blood samples taken  afterward to determine कैसा जल्दी  it is cleared from the blood .
The test is usually used to test for diabetes , insulin resistance , and sometimes reactive  hypoglycemia और acromegaly  , or rarer disorders of carbohydrate metabolism .
In the most commonly performed version of the test , an oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ) , a standard  खुराक of ग्लूकोज is ingested by मुँह और रक्त स्तर हैं checked दो घंटों  later .
Many variations of the GTT have been devised over the years for various purposes , with different standard doses of glucose , different routes of administration , different intervals and  durations of sampling , और विभिन्न substances measured in जोड  to blood glucose .
`` What About Me  '' is a सोंग लिखा by गैरी तुषार  and Frances Swan , first recorded by Australian rock band Moving Pictures from their album Days of Innocence .
It was the band 's first number-one single in Australia spending six consecutive weeks on the top ; there , it was the  second-highest selling  single of 1982 .
The success of the song led them to  अमेरिका जहाँ it became  a hit , reaching # 29 on the U.S . Billboard Hot 100 chart .
the सोंग ठहरे in the u.S. चार्ट  for such a long time that it managed to make Billboards top 100 Pop Singles of 1983 , at # 88 , a rare feat for a single with such a low peak position .
The song made an unusual comeback  in 1989  , peaking at # 46 .
On the  बाएँ a मुर्गा अंडा  , the egg most commonly eaten by humans , and on the right two quail eggs
Eggs are laid by females of many different species , including birds , reptiles , amphibians , and fish , and have been eaten  by mankind लिये हज़ारों of सालो  .
Bird and  reptile अंडे consist of a सुरक्षात्मक eggshell , albumen (  egg white ) , and vitellus ( egg yolk ) , contained within various thin membranes .
Popular choices for egg consumption are chicken , duck , quail , roe , and caviar , but the  अंडा सबसे प्रायः खपत by इंसानो is the मुर्गा  egg , by a wide margin .
Egg yolks  और पूरे अंडे स्टोर significant  amounts of protein and choline , and are widely used in cookery .
Due to their protein content , the United States Department of Agriculture  ( यूएसडीए ) categorizes अंडे as meats भीतर  the Food Guide Pyramid .
Despite the nutritional  मान of अंडे , वहीँ हैं कुछ  potential health issues arising from egg quality , storage , and individual allergies .
Chickens and other egg-laying creatures are widely kept throughout the world , and mass production of chicken eggs  is a  global industry .
In 2009 , an estimated  62.1 लाख मीट्रिक टन of अंडे  were produced worldwide from a total laying flock of approximately 6.4 billion hens .
There are issues of regional variation in demand and expectation , as well as current debates concerning  विधि of द्रव्यमान उत्पादन , साथ the यूरोपीय  Union 's ban on battery farming of chickens .
Major League Soccer ( MLS ) is a professional soccer  लीग representing  the sport 's highest level in the United States and Canada .
Sanctioned by the United States Soccer Federation ( U.S. Soccer )  , the लीग is रचित of 19 टीमों — 16 in  the U.S. and 3 in Canada .
सीज़न presently चलाएं इससे  March to December , with each team playing 34 games in the regular season .
Ten teams compete in the  postseason  MLS Cup Playoffs culminating in the championship game , the MLS Cup .
Major  लीग सॉकर थी संस्थापित in 1993  as part of the United States ' bid to host the 1994 FIFA World Cup .
The first  ऋतु took प्लेस  in 1996 beginning with ten teams .
Instead of operating as an association of independently owned teams , MLS is a  सिंगल एंटिटी जहाँ प्रत्येक टोली is स्वामित्व और नियंत्रित by the लीग  's investors .
The league 's closed membership makes it one of the world 's few soccer leagues not  using प्रमोशन  and relegation .
the वैधता  of cannabis varies from country to country .
Possession of cannabis is illegal in most countries and has been since the beginning of  फैली कैनबिस निषेध  in the late 1930s .
However , many countries have decriminalized the possession of small quantities of  कैनबिस , विशेषकर in उत्तर अमेरिका , दक्षिण  America and Europe .
Furthermore , possession is legal or effectively legal in the Netherlands , North Korea and would be in the U.S. states of  कोलोराडो और वॉशिंगटन  if it were not for federal law , which governs persons in all states .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal  in a क्रमांक of देशों , सहित  Canada , the Czech Republic and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of  कैनबिस , प्रवर्तन varies widely at the राज्य स्तर और कुछ राज्य have स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम  in that contradict federal law ; two states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but , apart from the countries that offer access to  चिकित्सा मारिजुआना , सबसे देशों have विभिन्न दंड  ranging from lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation , use , possession or  ट्रांसफ़र of कैनबिस  for recreational use .
A few jurisdictions have lessened penalties for possession of small quantities of cannabis , making it  दंडनीय by confiscation और a  fine , rather than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug  न्यायालयों उपयोग अनिवार्य उपचार  programs for young or frequent users , with freedom from narcotic drugs as the goal and a few jurisdictions permit cannabis use for medicinal purposes .
There are also changes  in a अधिक प्रतिबंधक दिशा  as in Canada .
Drug tests to detect cannabis are increasingly common in many  देशों और have resulted  in jail sentences and people losing their jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries , particularly in parts of East Asia and Southeast Asia where the sale of  कैनबिस may सीसे to a वाक्य of जीवन in थाना or भी  execution .
In cardiovascular physiology , ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the  ventricle ( दिल ) साथ प्रत्येक दिल ताल or  cardiac cycle .
It can be applied to either  the सही ventricle जिससे ejects via the pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary  circulation or the left ventricle which ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
Imaging of the physiology of the mammalian heart is the art  कि  allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF .
Noninvasive  हृदय इमेजिंग रै become  a worldwide utility enabling study of cardiac performance reproducibly and inexpensively .
Simplified , Ejection  भिन्न is a गणितीय  product allowed by cardiac imaging .
As a  गणितीय पद , ejection भिन्न  is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography , Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning  have definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding ischemia  , Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
State Route 14 ( SR 14 ) is a north–south state  राजमार्ग in the u.S. राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , largely in the Mojave Desert .
the दक्षिणी portion  of the highway is signed as the Antelope Valley Freeway .
The route  connects अंतरराज्यीय 5 , or सुनहरी राज्य फ्रीवे , निकट  Santa Clarita and with U.S. Route 395 near Inyokern .
legislatively , the  route extends south of I-5 to State Route 1 in the Pacific Palisades area of Los Angeles , however the portion south of the junction with I-5 has not been constructed .
The southern part of the constructed route is a busy commuter freeway serving and connecting the  समुदायों  of Santa Clarita , Palmdale and Lancaster with the rest of the Greater Los Angeles area .
The northern portion , from Vincent ( south of Palmdale ) to Route 395 , is legislatively named the Aerospace Highway  , as the राजमार्ग serves एडवर्ड्स एयर फ़ोर्स आधार  , once one of the primary landing strips for NASA 's Space Shuttle .
This section is rural , following the line  between the hot mojave मरुस्थल और  the forming Sierra Nevada mountain range .
Most of Route 14 is loosely paralleled by a main line of the Southern Pacific Railroad , used for the Antelope Valley Line of the Metrolink commuter rail system as well as a connection between Los  एंजिल्स और the कैलिफ़ोर्निया सेंट्रल घाटी  via Tehachapi Pass .
Linked with US 395 ,  इस सड़क connects लॉस एंजिल्स  with such places as Mammoth Mountain , Mono Lake , Yosemite National Park and Reno , Nevada .
Route 14 was part of U.S. Route 6 prior to truncation in  1964 , जब u.S. 6 थी  a coast-to-coast route from Long Beach to Provincetown , Massachusetts .
The non-freeway  खण्ड of sr 14 इससे चांदी महारानी सड़क उत्तर of rosamond to mojave is ज्ञात as सिएरा राजमार्ग , as  is the old routing between Interstate 5 and Silver Queen Road where SR 14 has been moved to a newer freeway alignment .
Portions of Route 14 remain signed with names associated with US 6 , including Midland Trail , Theodore Roosevelt Highway and Grand  फौज of the गणतंत्र राजमार्ग  .
This route is  भाग of the कैलिफ़ोर्निया  Freeway and Expressway System .
दृष्टिहीनता is the कंडीशन  of lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors .
Various scales have been developed to describe the extent  of  vision loss and define blindness .
Total blindness is the complete lack of form and visual light perception  और is clinically  recorded as NLP , an abbreviation for `` no light perception . ''
Blindness is frequently used to  describe कठोर  visual impairment with vision .
Those described as having only light perception have no more sight than the ability to tell light from dark and the general  दिशा of a लाइट सोर्स  .
To  determine जिससे लोगों may need खास सहायता क्युकी of उनके विज़ुअल disabilities , विभिन्न सरकारी jurisdictions have प्रतिपादित अधिक जटिल परिभाषाएं referred to as विधिक दृष्टिहीनता .
In North America and most of Europe , legal blindness is defined as visual acuity (  दृष्टि ) of 20/200 ( 6/60 ) or  less in the better eye with best correction possible .
This means that a legally blind individual would have to stand from an  ऑब्जेक्ट to देखिए it—with corrective lenses —with the  same degree of clarity as a normally sighted person could from .
In many areas , people  साथ औसत तीक्ष्णता जो nonetheless have a विज़ुअल  field of less than 20 degrees ( the norm being 180 degrees ) are also classified as being legally blind .
Approximately ten percent of those deemed legally  अँधा , by कोई माप  , have no vision .
The rest have some vision , from light perception alone to  अपेक्षाकृत  good acuity .
Low vision is  sometimes प्रयुक्त to describe  visual acuities from 20/70 to 20/200 .
By the 10th Revision of the WHO International Statistical Classification of Diseases , Injuries and Causes of Death , low vision is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/60 ( 6/18 ) , but equal to or better than 20/200 ( 6/60 ) , or  सम्बन्धित विज़ुअल फ़ील्ड घाटा to कम than 20 डिग्री , in the बेहतर नजर साथ बेहतरीन संभावित सुधार  .
Blindness is defined as visual acuity of less than 20/400 ( 6/120 ) , or corresponding visual field loss to less than 10  डिग्री , in the बेहतर नजर साथ बेहतरीन संभावित  correction .
Blind people with undamaged  आँखें may स्टिल पंजीकरण लाइट non-visually लिये the purpose  of circadian entrainment to the 24-hour light/dark cycle .
Light signals for this purpose travel through the retinohypothalamic tract and are not affected by optic  तंत्रिका क्षति परे जहाँ the retinohypothalamic  tract exits .
Earl Simmons ( born December 18 , 1970 ) , better known by his stage names DMX and Dark Man X , is  an अमरीकी rapper और कर्ता  .
In 1999 , DMX released his best-selling album ... And Then There Was X , which  प्रदर्शित the hit सिंगल `` पार्टी up ( up in यहाँ  ) `` .
He has acted in films such as Belly , Romeo Must Die ,  निकास wounds , पालना 2 the संगीन  , and Last Hour .
In 2006 ,  he स्ट्रक्चर in the वास्तविकता  television series , which was primarily aired on the BET cable television network .
In 2003 , DMX published a book of his memoirs entitled ,  e.a.r.l . : the आत्मकथा  of DMX .
DMX released a mixtape The Weigh In as a  prelude/promotion towards उसके एल्बम undisputed  ( 2012 ) .
DMX has sold over 30 million  रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी , बनाना उसे एक of the best-selling  hip-hop artists of all time .
Professional  प्रमाणन , व्यापार प्रमाणन , or  professional designation , often called simply certification or qualification , is a designation earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task .
Not all certifications that use post-nominal letters are an acknowledgement of educational achievement , or an agency  नियुक्त to safeguard the पब्लिक ब्याज  .
Bugs Bunny is a funny animal cartoon character , best remembered for his starring roles in  the looney धुनें और merrie  Melodies series of theatrical short films produced by Warner Bros. during the Golden age of American animation .
His popularity during this era led to his becoming a corporate mascot of  warner भाईs. entertainment  .
Bugs is an anthropomorphic gray hare or rabbit who is famous for his flippant , personality , a pronounced New York accent , his portrayal as a  छलिया ,  and his catch phrase `` Eh ...
What 's up , doc  ? ''
(  प्रायः  said while chewing a carrot ) .
Bugs has appeared in more films than any other cartoon character and is the ninth most portrayed  फिल्मी व्यक्तित्व in the संसार  .
According  to उसके 1990 `` जीवनी ''  Bugs Bunny : 50 Years and Only One Grey Hare , Bugs was born on July 27 , 1940 in Brooklyn , New York in a warren under Ebbets Field , home of the Brooklyn Dodgers .
In reality , he was brought to life by the animators and staff of Leon Schlesinger Productions ( later Warner Bros. Cartoons ) : including Tex Avery , who directed Bugs ' early definitive short A Wild Hare ( 1940 ) ; Robert McKimson , who created Bugs '  निर्णायक अक्षर डिज़ाइन ; और mel blanc , जो originated the आवाज़ of बग .
The mucous membranes ( or mucosae or mucosas ; singular mucosa ) are linings of  ज़्यादातर endodermal उत्पत्ति , covered in  epithelium , which are involved in absorption and secretion .
They line cavities that  हैं उजागर to the  external environment and internal organs .
They are at  अनेक स्थान संलग्न साथ स्किन : at the नथुनों  , the lips of the mouth , the eyelids , the ears , the genital area , and the anus .
The sticky , thick fluid secreted by the mucous  झिल्लियों और  glands is termed mucus .
The term mucous membrane refers to where they  हैं मिला in the  body and not every mucous membrane secretes mucus .
The glans  clitoridis , glans शिश्न ( सिर of the शिश्न  ) , along with the inside of the foreskin and the clitoral hood , are mucous membranes .
the urethra is  also a mucous membrane .
The secreted mucus traps the  pathogens in the  body , preventing any further activities of diseases .
A master sergeant is the military rank for a senior  non-commissioned अधिकारी in  some armed forces .
Cake is a form  of ब्रैड or  bread-like food .
In its  आधुनिक  forms , it is typically a sweet baked dessert .
In its oldest forms , cakes were normally  fried breads or cheesecakes  , and normally had a disk shape .
Determining whether a given  खाना चाहिए be वर्गीकृत  as bread , cake , or pastry can be difficult .
Modern cake , especially layer cakes , normally contain a combination of flour ,  शुगर , अंडे , और मक्खन or आयल , साथ कुछ किस्में भी  requiring liquid ( typically milk or water ) and leavening agents ( such as yeast or baking powder ) .
Flavorful ingredients like fruit purées , nuts , dried or candied fruit , or extracts are  प्रायः added , और numerous substitutions  for the primary ingredients are possible .
Cakes are often filled  साथ फल preserves or मिठाई sauces ( जैसे पेस्ट्री मलाई ) ,  iced with buttercream or other icings , and decorated with marzipan , piped borders or candied fruit .
Cake is often the dessert of choice for meals at ceremonial occasions , particularly  विवाह , वर्षगांठ  , and birthdays .
There are countless cake recipes ; some are  bread-like , कुछ समृद्ध और विस्तृत , और अनेक हैं  centuries old .
Cake making is no  longer a जटिल कार्यविधि ; जबकि at एक  time considerable labor went into cake making ( particularly the whisking of egg foams ) , baking equipment and directions have been simplified so that even the most amateur cook may bake a cake .
Tamara Faye LaValley Bakker Messner ( March 7 , 1942 – July 20 , 2007 ) was an American Christian singer , evangelist ,  उद्योगों , लेखक , बात दिखाएँ मेजबान , और टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व  .
She was married  इससे 1961 to 1992 to televangelist  , and later convicted felon , Jim Bakker .
She co-hosted with him  on the ptl क्लबों  ( 1976–1987 ) .
She was a  भागीदार in the 2004 ऋतु  of the reality show The Surreal Life .
Cambria is a village in Columbia County ,  विस्कॉन्सिन  , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 767  at the 2010 census .
It is part of the Madison  महानगर  Statistical Area .
Public policy  is the principled मार्गदर्शिका to कार्रवाई लिया by the प्रशासनिक कार्यपालिका  branches of the state with regard to a class of issues in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs .
In general  , the न्यास is the pertinent नेशनल और  substantial constitutional law and implementing legislation such as the US Federal code .
Further substrates include both judicial  interpretations और regulations जिससे हैं generally  authorized by legislation .
Other scholars  define it as a प्रणाली of `` पाठ्यक्रम of कार्रवाई , नियामक उपायों , कानून , और funding प्राथमिकताएं concerning a  given topic promulgated by a governmental entity or its representatives . ''
Public policy is commonly embodied `` in  constitutions , विधान  acts , and judicial decisions . ''
In the United States , this concept refers not only to the result of policies , but more broadly to the  decision-making और विश्लेषण of सरकारी  decisions .
As an academic discipline , public policy is studied by professors and students at public  नीति स्कूलों of प्रमुख विश्वविद्यालयों  throughout the country .
The U.S. professional association of public policy  practitioners , शोधकर्ताओं , विद्वानों , और विद्यार्थी is  the Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management .
Digestion is the mechanical and chemical breakdown of  खाना into छोटी components कि हैं अधिक easily  absorbed into a blood stream , for instance .
Digestion is a form of catabolism : a  विश्लेषण of विशाल  food molecules to smaller ones .
When food  enters the मुँह , पाचन of the खाना starts  by the action of mastication , a form of mechanical digestion , and the wetting contact of saliva .
Saliva , a liquid secreted by the salivary glands , contains salivary amylase , an enzyme which  starts the पाचन of मंड  in the food .
After undergoing mastication and starch  पाचन  , the food will be in the form of a small , round slurry mass called a bolus .
It will then travel down the esophagus and into the  पेट by the कार्रवाई  of peristalsis .
Gastric  रस in the पेट  starts protein digestion .
Gastric  रस मुख्यतः contains  hydrochloric acid and pepsin .
As these two chemicals may  क्षति the पेट  wall , mucus is secreted by the stomach , providing a slimy layer that acts as a shield against the damaging effects of the chemicals .
At the same time protein digestion is occurring ,  mechanical mixing occurs by peristalsis  , which are waves of muscular contractions that move along the stomach wall .
This allows the mass of food  to further मिक्सर  with the digestive enzymes .
After some time ( typically an hour or two  in इंसानो , 4–6 घंटों in कुत्तो , somewhat shorter अवधि  in house cats ) , the resulting thick liquid is called chyme .
When the  pyloric sphincter वाल्व opens , chyme enters the duodenum  where it mixes with digestive enzymes from the pancreas , and then passes through the small intestine , in which digestion continues .
जब the chyme is fully  digested , it is absorbed into the blood .
95 % of absorption of  nutrients  occurs in the small intestine .
Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the blood in the colon ( large intestine ) where the pH is  थोड़ा  acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9 .
Some vitamins , such as biotin and  विटामिन k ( k2mk7 ) उत्पादित by जीवाणु  in the colon are also absorbed into the blood in the colon .
बर्बाद सामग्री is eliminated इससे the मलाशय दौरान शौच  .
हेनरी viii ( 28 जून 1491 – 28 जनवरी  1547 ) was king of England from 21 April 1509 until his death .
He was lord , and later king , of Ireland , as well as continuing the nominal claim by the English  monarchs  to the Kingdom of France .
Henry was  the दूसरी monarch  of the Tudor dynasty , succeeding his father , Henry VII .
besides उसके छह विवाह , हेनरी viii  is known for his role in the separation of the Church of England from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry 's  struggles  with Rome led to the separation of the Church of England from papal authority , the Dissolution of the Monasteries , and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
Yet he remained  a आस्तिक in कोर कैथोलिक theological  teachings , even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with  the कानून in वेल्स अधिनियमों 1535  and 1542 .
in 1513 , the नई किंग अलाइड साथ  the Holy Roman Emperor , Maximillian I , and invaded France in 1513 with a large , well-equipped army , but achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
Maximillian , for his part , used the English invasion to his own ends , and this  prejudiced इंग्लैण्ड 's क्षमता  to defeat the French .
This foray would prove the  प्रारंभ of an obsession लिये हेनरी  , who invaded again in 1544 .
This time , Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne  , लकिन again the पावन रोमन सम्राट , चार्ल्स v , समर्थित  Henry only as long as he needed to and England , strained by the enormous cost of the war , ransomed the city back for peace .
His contemporaries  माना हेनरी in उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक , शिक्षित  and accomplished king , and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling with absolute power , he also  सगाई खुद as an लेखक  and composer .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed  partly इससे निजी वैनिटी और partly  because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led to the two things for which Henry is most remembered : his six marriages and the English Reformation .
Henry became morbidly obese and his health  suffered , contributing to उसके मौत  in 1547 .
He is  अक्सर characterised  in his later life as a lustful , egotistical , harsh , and insecure king .
Bongos ( Spanish  : bongó ) हैं  an Afro-Cuban percussion instrument .
The drums are of different size : the larger drum is called  in स्पेनी the hembra  ( female ) and the smaller the macho ( male ) .
They are membranophones , or instruments that create sound by a  स्पंदन of a stretched झिल्ली .
Different religious  समूह शामिल अलग किताबे in उनके biblical  canons , in varying orders , and sometimes divide or combine books , or incorporate additional material into canonical books .
Christian Bibles range from the sixty-six books of the Protestant canon to the eighty-one books of the  ethiopian परंपरागत tewahedo गिरिजाघर  canon .
The Hebrew Bible , or Tanakh , contains twenty-four books divided into three parts ; the five books of  the तोरा ( `` शिक्षण '' or `` विधि '' ) , the nevi'im  ( `` prophets '' ) , and the Ketuvim ( `` writings '' ) .
The first part of Christian Bibles is the Old Testament , which contains , at minimum , the twenty-four books of the Hebrew Bible divided into thirty-nine books  और ordered differently इससे the यहूदी बाइबल  .
The Catholic Church  और पूर्वी ईसाई चर्च भी थाम निश्चित deuterocanonical  books and passages to be part of the Old Testament canon .
The second part is the New Testament , containing twenty-seven books ; the four Canonical gospels , Acts of the Apostles , twenty-one Epistles or letters and  the किताब of रहस्योद्घाटन  .
The  पूर्वी परंपरागत , प्राच्य परंपरागत  and Eastern Catholic churches may have minor differences in their lists of accepted books .
The list given here for these churches is the most inclusive : if at least one Eastern  गिरिजाघर स्वीकृत the किताब it is शामिल  here .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , with a blue rectangle in the canton ( referred to specifically  as the `` संघ '' ) bearing पचास छोटी , श्वेत , five-pointed सितारों arranged  in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British  colonies कि घोषित स्वतंत्रता इससे  the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union .
Nicknames for the flag include the `` Stars and Stripes '' , `` Old Glory `` , and `` The  star-spangled ध्वज . ''
Dred Scott v. Sandford , , also known as the Dred Scott  निर्णय , थी a लैंडमार्क निर्णय  by the U.S. Supreme Court .
It made two main  rulings  .
The first ruling was that  african-americans  were not citizens , and therefore had no standing to sue in federal court .
The second ruling was that the federal  सरकारी था no शक्ति to विनियमित गुलामी in कोई territory  acquired subsequent to the creation of the United States .
Given  the पहला सत्ताधारी , सबसे विद्वानों और अनेक  contemporary political figures ( including the leadership of the then-new Republican Party ) considered that the second ruling was not binding precedent , but mere dictum .
The rationale of the Supreme Court regarding the jurisdictional ruling implied  कि लोगों of अफ़्रीकी descent ( दोनो स्लेव  and free ) were not protected by the Constitution and were not U.S. citizens .
Since  ड्योढ़ी of the 14th amendment to  the U.S. Constitution , both rulings are superseded and no longer valid precedent .
Nonetheless , the case  retains ऐतिहासिक significance  as it is widely regarded as the worst decision ever made by the Supreme Court .
The opinion of the court , written by Chief Justice Roger B.  taney , stirred बहस  .
The  निर्णय थी 7–2 ,  and every Justice besides Taney wrote a separate concurrence or dissent .
For the first time since Marbury v.  मैडिसन , the अदालत आयोजित an अधिनियम  of Congress to be unconstitutional .
Dred Scott , an African-American slave , had asked a United States Circuit Court to award him his freedom because he and his   master had resided in a state ( Illinois ) and a territory ( Wisconsin Territory ) where slavery had been banned .
Chief  इंसाफ रोजर taney , लिखने लिये the  court , held that Scott , as a person of African ancestry , was not a citizen of the United States and therefore had no right to sue in federal court .
This holding was contrary to the practice of numerous states at the time , particularly Free  राज्य , जहाँ फ़्री अश्वेतों किया in फैक्ट आनंद the अधिकारों of नागरिकों  , such as the right to vote and hold public office .
In what is sometimes considered mere obiter dictum , the Court went on to hold that  कॉंग्रेस था no प्राधिकार to prohibit गुलामी in संघीय territories क्युकी स्लेव हैं निजी प्रॉपर्टी  and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution protects property owners against deprivation of their property without due process of law .
In  reaching इस निर्णय , taney था hoped to settle the growing विवाद  surrounding slavery in the United States , but it had the opposite effect .
The decision was fiercely debated across the country , as perhaps best exemplified by the  lincoln–douglas debates of 1858  .
Abraham Lincoln , the second-ever Republican nominee for President , was able to win the presidential election in 1860 ;  the stopping  of the further expansion of slavery was a key Republican party plank .
the निर्णय निभाई an महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका in the  timing of state secession and the Civil War , although it is extreme to say the decision `` caused '' the war .
The decision is acknowledged for the influential role it played in  altering the नेशनल राजनैतिक लैंडस्केप  : it is credited with launching Abraham Lincoln’s national political career and ultimately allowing for his election .
Although the Supreme Court has never explicitly overruled the Dred Scott case , the Court stated in the Slaughter-House Cases that at least one part of it had already been overruled by the  fourteenth amendment  in 1868 , which begins by stating , `` All persons born or naturalized in the United States , and subject to the jurisdiction thereof , are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside . ''
To which the  अदालत नोटd:
The first observation we have to make on this clause is , that it puts at rest both the questions  जिससे we stated to have महरूम  the subject of differences of opinion .
It declares that persons may be citizens of the United States without regard to their  नागरिकता of a particular राज्य , और it overturns the dred स्कॉट निर्णय by बनाना सब व्यक्तियों born भीतर the  United States and subject to its jurisdiction citizens of the United States .
There are dozens of  पड़ोस in कोलंबस  , Ohio .
Some are hard to define , as they  encompass विशाल क्षेत्रों विकसित  at different times—often with sub-neighborhoods within them .
Borders can also change based on popular understanding of the  क्षेत्रफल , as खूब as the  whims of the residents .
This article uses  आंकड़ा इससे the datasourcecolumbus  Web site , Spotcrime.com , HelloColumbus.com , as well as the various Columbus Area Commissions to define the various areas .
Excerpts and border information are drawn directly from the main  आलेख .
A biologist is a scientist who studies living organisms and their relationship to their  पर्यावरण .
Biologists involved in basic research attempt to discover underlying mechanisms that  govern कैसा  organisms work .
Biologists involved in applied research attempt to develop or improve medical ,  औद्योगिक or  agricultural processes .
Martinus Willem Beijerinck  , a वनस्पतिशास्त्री  and microbiologist
Base jumping from a  चट्टान in a wingsuit  .
BASE jumping , also sometimes written as B.A.S.E . jumping ,  is an कार्यकलाप जहाँ भागीदार  jump from fixed objects and use a parachute to break their fall .
`` BASE '' is an acronym that stands for four categories of fixed  वस्तुएँ इससे जिससे एक can जम्प : इमारतें , एन्टेना , spans (  bridges ) , and earth ( cliffs ) .
The British Shorthair is a domesticated cat whose features  मेक it a लोकप्रिय नस्ल in  cat shows .
It has been the most popular breed of cat registered by the UK 's Governing  परिषद of the बिल्ली फैंसी  ( GCCF ) since 2001 , when it overtook the Persian breed .
The USA Basketball Men 's Senior National Team  , commonly ज्ञात as the संयुक्त राज्य मेन  's national basketball team , represents the United States of America in international men 's basketball .
The USA is the most successful team in international competition , winning medals in all seventeen Olympic  tournaments it रै डाला , coming  away with fourteen golds .
Two of its gold medal-winning squads were inducted to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as teams in August 2010—the 1960 team , which featured six Hall of Famers ( 4 players , 2  कोच ) , और the 1992 `` सपना टोली '' , featuring 14 हॉल  of Famers ( 11 players , 3 coaches ) .
The  संयुक्त राज्य is फिलहाल  ranked first in the FIBA World Rankings .
Traditionally composed of  amateur खिलाड़ी , a 1989 नियम बदलें by fiba अनुमत यूएसए  Basketball to field teams with professional players .
The first such team , known as the `` Dream  टोली '' , जीती the सुनहरा पदक  at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona , Spain , playing in the final against Croatia .
With  the परिचय  of professionals , the team was able to spark a second run of dominance after capturing only a bronze medal in 1988 .
A team of professional players  competed at the 1994 fiba संसार चैंपियनशिप  , finishing first .
In 1996 , 2000 , 2008  , और 2012 the  USA again captured gold medals .
Facing increased competition , the USA  विफल to जीत a पदक  at the 2002 FIBA World Championship , finishing sixth .
The 2004 Summer Olympic team  खोया तीन खेल on इसके रास्ता  to a bronze medal , a record that represented more losses in a single year than the country 's Olympic teams had suffered in all previous Olympiads combined .
Determined to put an end to these failures , USA Basketball initiated a  long-term प्रोजेक्ट aimed at  creating better , more cohesive teams .
The USA won its first seven games at the 2006 FIBA World  चैंपियनशिप in जापानी पहले खोने विरूद्ध यूनानियों  in the semi-finals , ending the competition with the bronze medal .
The USA won gold two years later , though  ,  at the 2008 Summer Olympics with a dominant performance .
This success was followed up at the 2010 FIBA World Championship , where despite  क्षेत्ररक्षण a रोस्टर featuring no खिलाड़ी इससे the 2008 ओलम्पिक टोली , the यूएसए  did not lose a single game en route to defeating host Turkey for the gold medal .
The USA continued this  streak of दबदबा  by going undefeated and capturing gold once more at the 2012 Summer Olympics .
The Steelers  सुपर कटोरी  XL ring
Joe  theismann 's सुपर  Bowl Ring ( right )
The Super Bowl ring is  an पुरस्कार in the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League given to the winners of the league 's annual World Championship game , the Super Bowl .
Since only one Vince Lombardi Trophy is awarded to the team (  स्वामित्व  ) itself , the Super Bowl ring offers a collectible memento for the actual players and team members to keep for themselves to symbolize the victory .
Image showing the six  सबसे आम  speleothems with labels .
to  दृश्य लेबल्स  .
The Witch 's Finger in  the carlsbad caverns
A stalagmite ( or ; from the Greek σταλαγμίτης - stalagmitês , from σταλαγμίας -  stalagmias , `` छोड़ने , trickling '' ) is a प्रकार  of speleothem that rises from the floor of a limestone cave due to the dripping of mineralized solutions and the deposition of calcium carbonate .
This stalagmite  गठन occurs तभी अंतर्गत निश्चित  pH conditions within the underground cavern .
The corresponding  गठन on the छत of a  cave is known as a stalactite .
If these formations grow together , the result  is ज्ञात as a कालम  .
The Hall of Giants in the  carlsbad caverns
Stalagmites should normally not be touched , since the rock buildup is formed by minerals precipitating out of the water solution onto the old surface ; skin oils can  alter the सतह जहाँ the खनिज जल होगा चिपकी , यूँ affecting  the growth of the formation .
Oils and dirt from human  सम्पर्क can भी दाग the गठन  and change its color permanently .
Similar structures can also form in lava tubes ,  संबद्ध साथ कुछ प्रकार of lavacicles , हालांकि the यांत्रिकी  of formation is very different .
Stalactites and stalagmites can also form on concrete ceilings and  floors , हालांकि वे रूप much अधिक rapidly  there than in the natural cave environment .
The largest stalagmite in the world is high and is  स्तिथ in the गुफा of cueva  Martin Infierno , Cuba .
In the  ज़ाग्रोस kyu  of south Iran , approximately from the ancient city of Bishapur , in the Shapur cave on the fourth of five terraces stands the 3rd century CE statue of Shapur I , second ruler of the Sassanid Empire .
The statue , carved from one stalagmite , is  nearly ऊँची  .
How I Met Your Mother is an American sitcom that  premiered on सीबीएस on सितंबर  19 , 2005 .
The show was created by  क्रेग थामस और  Carter Bays .
How I Met Your Mother is framed by the year 2030 , when Ted Mosby ( voiced by Bob Saget ) gathers his daughter (  lyndsy fonseca  ) and son ( David Henrie ) to tell them the story of how he met their mother .
We flashback to where it begins in 2005 with Ted Mosby ( Josh Radnor ) as a single , 27-year-old architect  जीना साथ उसके दो बेहतरीन मित्रों इससे wesleyan विश्वविद्यालयों , मार्शल eriksen ( जेसन सेगल ) , a विधि छात्र , और लिली एल्ड्रिन ( alyson हनिंगन ) , a किंडरगार्टन  teacher , who have been dating for almost nine years when Marshall proposes .
Their engagement causes Ted to think about finding his own soul mate , much  to the disgust  of his friend Barney Stinson ( Neil Patrick Harris ) , a womanizer with an unnamed corporate job .
And thus , Ted begins his search for his perfect mate , and  meets रोबिन scherbatsky  ( Cobie Smulders ) , whom he also befriends .
The 100th episode of How I Met Your  माँ aired  on January 11 , 2010 .
On December 21 , 2012 ,  the श्रेणी थी नवीनीकृत  for a ninth season .
On January 30 , 2013  , it थी घोषित  that Season 9 will be its final season .
Gringo ( , , ) is a slang Spanish and Portuguese word used in Ibero-America , to denote  विदेशियों , प्रायः इससे the संयुक्त  States .
The term can be applied to  किसी जो is दरअसल a foreigner  , or it can denote a strong association or assimilation into foreign ( particularly US ) society and culture .
In Spanish it does not have a  ऋणात्मक connotation  .
Roger Axtell , a travel  तहज़ीब विशेषज्ञ , टीप कि ``  [ t ] he word gringo is not necessarily a bad word .
It is  कठबोली लकिन is अपमानजनक  only in its use and context . ''
The  शब्द थी प्रयुक्त in स्पेन long पहले it crossed  the Atlantic to denote foreign , non-native speakers of Spanish .
The  ग्रेट श्वेत शार्क , carcharodon carcharias , भी ज्ञात as  the great white , white pointer , white shark , or white death , is a species of large lamniform shark which can be found in the coastal surface waters of all the major oceans .
The great white shark is mainly known for its size , with the largest individuals known to have approached or  exceeded in लंबाई  , and in weight .
This shark reaches  इसके परिपक्वता around  15 years of age and can have a life span of over 30 years .
The great white shark is arguably the world 's largest known extant macropredatory fish ,  और is एक of the प्राथमिक  predators of marine mammals .
It is also known  to शिकार upon a किस्में of अन्य समुद्री  animals , including fish and seabirds .
It is the only known surviving  प्रजाति of इसके genus carcharodon ,  and is ranked first in having the most attacks on humans .
The IUCN list the great white shark as a vulnerable species , while it is included in  परिशिष्ट ii of  CITES .
The bestselling novel Jaws by Peter Benchley and  the subsequent ब्लॉकबस्टर फिल्मी  by Steven Spielberg depicted the great white shark as a `` ferocious man eater `` .
in वास्तविकता , इंसानो  are not the preferred prey of the great white shark .
The United States Armed Forces are  the सैन्य शक्तियां of  the United States of America .
वे consist of the फौज  , Navy , Marine Corps , Air Force , and Coast Guard .
The U.S. has a  दमदार परंपरा of  civilian control of the military .
The President is the military 's overall head , and helps form military policy with the U.S. Department of Defense ( DoD )  , a संघीय कार्यपालिका विभाग , एक्टिंग as the प्रिंसिपल अंग by  which military policy is carried out .
the dod is headed  by the Secretary of Defense , who is a civilian and Cabinet member .
The Defense Secretary is second in the military 's chain of command , just below the President , and serves as  the प्रिंसिपल सहायक to the  President in all DoD-related matters .
To coordinate military action with  कूटनीति , the अध्यक्ष रै an सलाहकार नेशनल  Security Council headed by a National Security Advisor .
Both the President and Secretary of Defense are advised by a seven-member Joint Chiefs of Staff , which includes the head of each  of the रक्षा विभाग  's service branches as well as the chief of the National Guard Bureau .
Leadership is provided  by the अध्यक्ष of the  Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
The Commandant of the Coast Guard is not a member of the  संयुक्त chiefs  of Staff .
All of the branches work  साथ दौरान परिचालन और संयुक्त मिशन ,  under the Unified Combatant Commands , under the authority of the Secretary of Defense with the exception of the Coast Guard .
The Coast Guard falls  अंतर्गत the प्रशासन of the  Department of Homeland Security and receives its operational orders from the Secretary of Homeland Security .
The Coast Guard may be transferred to the Department of the Navy by the  अध्यक्ष or कॉंग्रेस दौरान a  time of war .
All five armed services are among the seven uniformed services of the United States ; the others are the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the National Oceanic  और वायुमंडलीय प्रशासन commissioned  Corps .
From the time of its inception , the military  निभाई a निर्णायक  role in the history of the United States .
A sense of national unity and identity was forged as a result of victory in the First  barbary युद्ध और the दूसरी  Barbary War .
Even so , the Founders were suspicious of a permanent  सैन्य फ़ोर्स और नहीं जबतक the outbreak of संसार युद्ध ii किया  a large standing army become officially established .
The National Security Act of 1947 , adopted following World War II and during the Cold War 's onset , created the modern U.S. military framework ;  the अधिनियम मिलाया previously cabinet-level विभाग of युद्ध और the विभाग of the नेवी into  the National Military Establishment ( renamed the Department of Defense in 1949 ) , headed by the Secretary of Defense ; and created the Department of the Air Force and National Security Council .
The U.S. military is one of the largest  militaries in शर्तें of क्रमांक  of personnel .
It draws its manpower from a large pool of paid volunteers ; although  conscription रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in the पास्ट in विभिन्न टाइम्स of दोनो  war and peace , it has not been used since 1972 .
As of 2013 , the U.S. spends about $ 554.2 billion annually to fund its military forces , and  appropriates लगभग  $ 88.5 billion to fund Overseas Contingency Operations .
Put together , the U.S. constitutes roughly 43  प्रतिशत of the संसार 's  military expenditures .
The U.S. Armed Forces as a whole possess large quantities of advanced and powerful equipment , along with widespread placement of forces around the world  , giving उन्हें significant सामर्थ्य in दोनो रक्षा और  power projection .
Freedom of speech is the  राजनैतिक सही to communicate  one 's opinions and ideas using one 's body and property to anyone who is willing to receive them .
The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously , but includes any act of  seeking , receiving और imparting सूचना or विचार  , regardless of the medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations , as with libel , slander , obscenity , sedition ( including , for example inciting ethnic hatred ) ,  कापीराइट उल्लंघन , रहस्योद्घाटन  of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  और पहचाना in अंतरराष्ट्रीय  human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek , receive and impart information and ideas of  सब kinds , regardless of frontiers , either orally , in लिखने or in छपाई , in the रूप of आर्ट , or through  any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and  जिम्मेदारियों `` और may `` इसलिए be विषय to निश्चित प्रतिबंध '' जब जरुरी ``  [ f ] or respect of the rights or reputation of others '' or `` [ f ] or the protection of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of speech may be legally curtailed in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to  कारण धार्मिक ठोकर , ऐसे as the अंग्रेजों  Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
The Big Bang Theory  लोगो  .
The Big Bang Theory is an American comedy television series created and executive produced  by चक lorre और  Bill Prady .
Like the name of the series itself ,  साथ the एक्सेप्शन of the पहला episode— '' पायलट '' —episode शीर्षक of the बिग बंग  Theory always start with `` The '' and resemble the name of a scientific principle , theory or experiment , whimsically referencing a plot point or quirk .
, 133  एपीसोड  have aired .
the बिग बंग  Theory has been renewed for a seventh season .
Dwight David `` Ike '' Eisenhower ( pronounced , ; October 14 , 1890 – March 28 , 1969 ) was the  34th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States from 1953 until 1961 .
He had previously been a five-star general in the United States Army during World War II and served as Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces in Europe ; he had responsibility for planning and supervising  the आक्रमण of उत्तर अफ़्रीकी in आपरेशन मशाल in 1942–43  and the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944–45 from the Western Front .
In 1951 , he became the first supreme  कमांडर of  NATO .
Eisenhower was of Pennsylvania Dutch ancestry and was reared in a large family in Kansas by parents with  a मजबूत कार्य ethic और  religious background .
as एक of छह  sons , he was conditioned by a competitive atmosphere which instilled self-reliance .
he attended और  graduated from West Point and later married and had two sons .
After World War II , Eisenhower served as Army Chief of Staff under  अध्यक्ष हैरी S. ट्रूमैन , तब assumed  the post of President at Columbia University .
Eisenhower entered the 1952  अध्यक्षीय रेस as a रिपब्लिकन  to counter the non-interventionism of Senator Robert A. Taft and to crusade against `` Communism , Korea and corruption '' .
He won by a  भूस्खलन , defeating  Democrat Adlai Stevenson and ending two decades of the New Deal Coalition .
In the first year of his presidency , Eisenhower deposed the leader of Iran in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état and used nuclear threats to  conclude the कोरियाई युद्ध साथ चीन  .
His New Look policy of nuclear deterrence gave priority to inexpensive  नाभिकीय हथियार जबकि reducing the funding  for conventional military forces ; the goal was to keep pressure on the Soviet Union and reduce federal deficits .
In  1954 , आइज़नहावर पहला articulated the domino  theory in his description of the threat presented by the spread of communism .
The Congress agreed to his request in 1955 for the Formosa Resolution ,  जिससे सक्रिय उसे to prevent चाइनीज कम्युनिस्ट आक्रामकता विरूद्ध  Chinese nationalists and established the U.S. policy of defending Taiwan .
When the  soviets शुभारम्भ sputnik in  1957 , he had to play catch-up in the space race .
Eisenhower forced Israel , the UK , and France to end  उनके आक्रमण  of Egypt during the Suez Crisis of 1956 .
In  1958 , he भेजा 15,000 us सैनिकों to लेबनान to prevent  the pro-Western government from falling to a Nasser -inspired revolution .
Near the end of his term , his efforts to set up a summit meeting with the Soviets  collapsed क्युकी of the  U-2 incident .
On the domestic front , he covertly opposed Joseph McCarthy and contributed to the end of McCarthyism  by खुलकर invoking the आधुनिक विस्तारित संस्करण  of executive privilege .
He otherwise left most political  कार्यकलाप to उसके वाइस  President , Richard Nixon .
He was a  मॉडरेट रूढ़िवादी जो  continued New Deal agencies and expanded Social Security .
Among his enduring innovations , he  शुभारम्भ the अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग प्रणाली ; the रक्षा उन्नत शोध  Projects Agency ( DARPA ) , which led to the internet , among many invaluable outputs ; the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) , driving peaceful discovery in space ; the establishment of strong science education via the National Defense Education Act ; and encouraging peaceful use of nuclear power via amendments to the Atomic Energy Act .
In  सोशल नीति , he भेजा संघीय  troops to Little Rock , Arkansas , for the first time since Reconstruction to enforce federal court orders to desegregate public schools .
He also signed civil rights  विधान in  1957 and 1960 to protect the right to vote .
He implemented  desegregation of the हथियारबंद शक्तियां in दो  years and made five appointments to the Supreme Court .
He was  the पहला term-limited  president in accordance with the 22nd Amendment .
Eisenhower 's two terms were peaceful ones for the most part and saw considerable economic  समृद्धि मगर लिये a शार्प  recession in 1958–59 .
Eisenhower is often ranked  अत्यधिक among the u.S. राष्ट्रपतियों  .
Air Force One is the official air traffic  कंट्रोल कॉल चिह्न of  a United States Air Force aircraft carrying the President of the United States .
In common parlance the term refers to those Air Force aircraft  specifically designed , निर्मित ,  and used for the purpose of transporting the president .
The Presidential aircraft is a prominent symbol of the  अमरीकी प्रेसिडेंसी और इसके शक्ति  .
The idea of designating specific military aircraft  to हस्तांतरण  the President arose in 1943 , when officials of the United States Army Air Forces – the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force – became concerned with relying on commercial airlines to transport the President .
A C-87 Liberator Express was reconfigured for use as a presidential  हस्तांतरण ; however , it थी अस्वीकृत by the रहस्य सेवा  amid concerns over the aircraft 's safety record .
A C-54 Skymaster was then converted for presidential use ; this aircraft , dubbed the Sacred Cow , transported President Franklin D. Roosevelt to the Yalta Conference in February 1945 , and was  subsequently प्रयुक्त  for another two years by President Harry S. Truman .
The `` Air Force One '' call sign was created after a 1953 incident during which a flight carrying President Dwight D.  आइज़नहावर डाला the वही airspace  as a commercial airline flight using the same call sign .
Several aircraft have been used as Air Force One since the  सृष्टि of the अध्यक्षीय बेड़े , सहित दो बोइंग 707s introduced  in the 1960s and 1970s , respectively ; since 1990 , the presidential fleet has consisted of two Boeing VC-25As – specifically configured , highly customized Boeing 747-200B series aircraft .
The Air Force is  looking into replacing the दो  VC-25 aircraft with three replacement aircraft beginning in 2017 .
A wedding  वर्षगांठ is the  anniversary of the date a wedding took place .
Traditional  names मौजूद लिये सबसे of उन्हें : लिये उदाहरण , 50 सालो of  marriage is called a `` golden wedding anniversary '' or simply a `` golden anniversary '' .
A scanner with  duplexing स्वचालित  Document Feeder .
In multifunction or all-in-one printers , fax machines , photocopiers and scanners , an automatic document feeder or ADF is a feature which takes several pages and feeds the paper one page at a time into a scanner or copier , allowing the user to scan , and  thereby नक़ल , छपाई , or फैक्स , multiple-page दस्तावेज़ बगैर having to हस्तचालित  replace each page .
Most  copiers allow स्कैनिंग on  the flatbed or platen ( the `` glass '' ) or through a document feeder .
The vast majority of fax machines have an ADF ,  allowing the unattended sending  of multi-page faxes .
Due to the ubiquity of ADF in fax machines , some fax machine owners use the fax machine as a  स्कैनर , faxing multi-page  documents to themselves .
Document feeders are described by  गति , in पृष्ठों प्रति मिनट or ppm  , and capacity , usually in a range from 10 sheets to 200 .
There are two kinds of document feeders capable of two-sided ( duplex ) scanning : a reversing  स्वचालित दस्तावेज़ फीडर  or RADF scans one side of a page , then flips it and scans the other side .
A duplexing automatic document feeder or  dadf scans दोनो पहलू  in one pass .
The advantage of the DADF  is तेज़ गति लिये two-sided  originals .
radfs और dadfs हैं रेटेड in बिंब  per minute ( IPM ) , the number of sides they can scan each minute .
Fair Park is a recreational  और शैक्षणिक जटिल स्तिथ in  Dallas , Texas ( USA ) .
The complex is registered as a Dallas Landmark , National Historic Landmark and is home to nine museums , six performance  सुविधाएं , a लैगून , और the largest  Ferris wheel in North America .
Many of the buildings on the complex were constructed for the Texas Centennial  exposition in 1936 जिससे खींचा over  six million visitors .
Most of the  इमारतें निर्मित लिये the exposition स्टिल  survive and it is recognized as a significant example of Art Deco architecture .
Fair Park  रै महरूम designated  a Great Place in America by the American Planning Association .
The American Planning Association ( APA ) “is an independent ,  not-for-profit शैक्षणिक संगठन कि  provides leadership in the development of vital communities.”
The Great Places in American program helps to celebrate  क्षेत्रों साथ “exemplary अक्षर ,  quality , and planning.”
Being designated as a Great Place in America , Fair Park was one of only  टेन शहरों चुनी  in 2011 .
San Jose ( ; Spanish : St. Joseph ) is the  third-largest  city in California , the tenth-largest in the U.S. , and the county seat of Santa Clara County which is located at the southern end of San Francisco Bay .
San Jose is the largest city within Silicon Valley , which is a major component of  the वृहद सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल , a प्रदेश of 8.4  million people and the fifth largest metropolitan area ( CSA ) in the United States .
It is the  largest नगर in उत्तरी  California .
San Jose was founded on November 29 , 1777 , as El Pueblo de San José de Guadalupe  , the पहला civilian  town in the Spanish colony of Nueva California , which later became Alta California .
The city  परोसा as a खेती जातियाँ  to support Spanish military installations at San Francisco and Monterey .
When  कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained statehood in  1850 , San Jose served as its first capital .
After more than 150 years as a  छोटी खेती नगर , सैन जोस और the surrounding  Santa Clara Valley became the last ( and largest ) contiguous area of undeveloped land surrounding the San Francisco Bay .
San Jose  अनुभवी increased  demand for housing from soldiers and veterans returning from World War II .
सैन जोस तब जारी  its aggressive expansion during the 1950s and 1960s by annexing more land area .
The rapid growth of the high-technology and electronics industries further accelerated the transition  इससे an agricultural बीच , to an  urbanized metropolitan area .
By the 1990s , San Jose 's location within the booming local  प्रौद्योगिकी उद्योग  earned the city its nickname , Capital of Silicon Valley .
San Jose now maintains global city status and is the largest city in the San Francisco Bay Area in terms of  जनसांख्यिकी , जमीन क्षेत्रफल , और औद्योगिक विकास  .
The U.S. Census Bureau reported the  जनसांख्यिकी of the  city to be 945,942 as of the 2010 Census .
As of  अप्रैल 2013 , the अनुमानित  population of San Jose was 984,000 .
San Jose , along with the Santa Clara Valley , experienced about half a century of spectacular suburban sprawl , with characteristics of intense  शहरी समान to the लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल of दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
the नगर रै  taken definite steps to avoid becoming `` L.A. North '' .
However , the sprawl in San Jose is worse than in Los Angeles by measures such as  जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व और पब्लिक पारगमन  safety , investment , and ridership .
Europe depicted  by antwerp cartographer  Abraham Ortelius in 1595
The history of Europe covers the people inhabiting the European continent since it was first populated in prehistoric times to present , with the first Homo  sapiens arriving between  45,000 and 25,000 BC .
The earliest  settlers to प्रागैतिहासिक यूरोपीय आए दौरान  the paleolithic era .
the आगमन of कृषि  around 7000 BC ushered in the neolithic age .
Neolithic Europe lasted for 4000 years ,  अतिव्यापी साथ metal-using संस्कृतियों कि धीरे  spread throughout the continent .
Technological advances  दौरान the प्रागैतिहासिक आयु tended to arrive  from the Middle East , spreading gradually to the northwest .
Some of the best-known civilizations of prehistoric Europe were Minoan and Mycenaean , which flourished  दौरान the कांस्य आयु जबतक वे collapsed in a छोटी  period of time around 1200 BC .
The period known as classical antiquity  began साथ the वृद्धि of the city-states  of Ancient Greece .
Greek influence reached its  zenith अंतर्गत the  expansive empire of Alexander the Great , spreading throughout Asia .
Northern and western Europe were dominated by the La Tène culture  , a precursor to the  Celts .
रोम , a छोटी city-state traditionally  founded in 753 BC , would grow to become the Roman Republic in 509 BC and would succeed Greek culture as the dominant Mediterranean civilization .
the कार्यक्रम of the नियम of जूलियस सीज़र  led to reorganization of the Republic into the Roman Empire .
The  साम्राज्य थी बाद विभाजित  by the emperor Diocletian into the Western and Eastern empires .
During the later years of the Roman Empire , the Germanic peoples of northern Europe grew in strength and repeated  हमले led to the पतन of  the Western Roman Empire in AD 476 , a date which traditionally marks the end of the classical period and the start of the Middle Ages .
During the Middle Ages , the Eastern Roman Empire survived , though modern  इतिहासकारों refer to इस  state as the Byzantine Empire .
In  पश्चिमी यूरोपीय , germanic peoples स्थानांतरित  into positions of power in the remnants of the former Western Roman Empire and established kingdoms and empires of their own .
Of all of the Germanic peoples , the Franks would rise to a position of Hegemony over western Europe , the Frankish Empire reaching  इसके शिखर अंतर्गत शारलेमेन  around AD 800 .
Francia was divided into several parts ; West Francia  होता evolve into the किंगडम of फ़्रांस  , while East Francia would evolve into the Holy Roman Empire , a precursor to modern Germany .
The British Isles were the site of several  large-scale migrations .
Native Celtic peoples had been marginalized during the period of Roman Britain  , और जब the romans abandoned  the British Isles during the 400s , waves of Germanic Anglo-Saxons migrated to southern Britain and established a series of petty kingdoms in what would eventually develop into the Kingdom of England by AD 927 .
During this period , the Kingdom of Poland  और किंगडम of हंगेरियाई ( 1000–1945 ) यहूद व्यवस्थित  as well .
The Viking Age , a period of  migrations of scandinavian  peoples , dominated the period from the late 700s to the middle 1000s .
Chief among the  viking राज्य थी the साम्राज्य of cnut  the Great , a Danish leader who would become king of England , Denmark , and Norway .
The Normans , a Viking people who settled in Northern France and founded the Duchy of Normandy , would have a significant impact on many parts of Europe , from the Norman conquest of  इंग्लैण्ड to दक्षिणी  Italy and Sicily .
another scandinavian  people , the Rus ' people , would go on to found Kievan Rus ' , an early state which was a precursor for the modern country of Russia .
As the Viking Age drew to a close , the period known as the Crusades  , a श्रेणी of religiously-motivated  military expeditions originally intended to bring the Levant back into Christian rule , began .
अनेक जेहादी  states were founded in the eastern Mediterranean .
ये यहूद  all short-lived .
The Crusaders would have a  profound प्रभाव  on many parts of Europe .
Their Sack of Constantinople in  1204 brought an abrupt  end to the Byzantine Empire .
विलुप्त श्वान breeds is  a compilation of dog breeds that have become extinct .
Wii Speak  is a माइक्रोफोन  accessory for Nintendo 's Wii video game console .
Connected to the console via USB , the  यंत्र can be लगाई निकट the वीडियो प्रदर्शक ,  allowing voice chat to be conducted with the entire room .
The device features an LED to indicate when the  माइक्रोफोन  is active .
Wii Speak  थी घोषित at निन्टेंडो  's 2008 E3 media briefing .
It was  released separately और bundled  with Animal Crossing : City Folk on November 16 , 2008 , in North America , and was released on December 5 , 2008 , in Europe .
The Wii Speak accessory is succeeded by the embedded microphone on the Wii U 's  gamepad नियंत्रक  .
Nissan  बुद्धिमान  Key®
A smart key is an electronic access and  प्राधिकरण प्रणाली जिससे is उपलब्धियाँ  as an option or standard in several cars .
It was first developed by Siemens in the mid-1990s and introduced by Mercedes-Benz under the  नाम `` keyless go '' in 1998 on the w220 s-class following इसके डिज़ाइन पेटेंट दायर by daimler-benz  on May 17 , 1997 .
univisión ( ) is a  Spanish-language television network in the United States .
The network is primarily dedicated for Latin  अमरीकी परिवारों जो reside  in the United States .
It has the largest audience of Spanish-language television viewers in the world  according to nielsen दरजा  .
Randy Falco , ( CEO as of June 29  , 2011  ) COO , has been in charge of the company since the departure of Univision Communications president and CEO Joe Uva in April 2010 .
In recent years the network has reached parity with the U.S. 's five major  english-language टेलीविज़न संजाल , और is प्रायः a  strong fifth , outranking The CW , with some fourth-place weekly placings , and as of 2012 , even first place rankings for individual programs over all five English networks due to the network 's consistent schedule of new telenovelas all 52 weeks of the year .
Univisión is headquartered in New York , and has its major studios , production facilities , and operations in Doral ,  फ्लोरिडा  , a suburb of Miami .
In 2009 , another television studio was  घोषित , univision studios  , to be built in Doral .
Univision is available on cable and satellite in most of the country , with local stations in over 50 markets with large Hispanic and Latino populations and a national cable network feed distributed in markets without either the availability or the  माँग लिये a locally-based स्टेशन  .
Most of  ये स्टेशन एयर पूरा लोकल न्यूज और अन्य लोकल प्रोग्रामिंग in जोड to संजाल shows , और  in major markets such as Los Angeles , New York , and Miami the local newscasts carried by the network 's owned-and-operated station ( O & O ) stations are equally competitive with their English-language counterparts ratings-wise .
Univisión was acquired on March 29 , 2007 by a consortium led by Haim Saban 's Saban Capital Group ( who had previously owned the entity Saban Entertainment ) , TPG Capital , L.P. , Providence Equity Partners , Madison Dearborn Partners , and  थामस H. ली साझेदार लिये $ 13.7 अरब or $ 36.25 प्रति  share plus $ 1.4 billion in acquired debt .
The buyout left the company with a debt level of twelve times its annual cash flow , which was  twice the norm in buyouts किया over  the previous two years .
Artist 's  धारणा of a आदिग्रह  disk
The formation and of the Solar System is estimated to have begun 4.6 billion years ago with the gravitational collapse of a small part of a  दानव आणविक बादल  .
Most of the collapsing mass collected in the centre , forming the Sun , while the rest flattened into a protoplanetary disk out  of जिससे the ग्रह , moons , क्षुद्रग्रह , और अन्य  small Solar System bodies formed .
This widely accepted model , known as the nebular hypothesis , was first developed in the 18th century by Emanuel Swedenborg ,  immanuel kant , और pierre-simon लाप्लास  .
Its  subsequent विकास रै interwoven a किस्में  of scientific disciplines including astronomy , physics , geology , and planetary science .
Since the dawn of the space age in the 1950s and  the डिस्कवरी of extrasolar ग्रह in the 1990s  , the model has been both challenged and refined to account for new observations .
The Solar System has evolved considerably since its  आरंभिक गठन  .
Many moons have formed from  घूमना discs of गैस  and dust around their parent planets , while other moons are thought to have formed independently and later been captured by their planets .
Still others , as the  धरती 's चंद्रमा , may be the  result of giant collisions .
Collisions between bodies have occurred continually up to the present  दिन और have महरूम सेंट्रल to the एवोल्यूशन of the सौर  System .
The positions of the planets often shifted  , और ग्रह have switched स्थान  .
This planetary  माइग्रेशन is अभी विचार to  have been responsible for much of the Solar System 's early evolution .
In roughly 5 billion years , the Sun will cool and expand outward many times its current  व्यास ( बनने a रेड  giant ) , before casting off its outer layers as a planetary nebula and leaving behind a stellar remnant known as a white dwarf .
In the far distant future , the gravity of passing stars will  धीरे reduce the सूर्य 's  retinue of planets .
Some  ग्रह होगा  be destroyed , others ejected into interstellar space .
ultimately , over the कोर्स of  tens of billions of years , it is likely that the Sun will be left with none of the original bodies in orbit around it .
The Trial (  काफ्का 's असली जर्मनी  title : , later as , and ) is a novel written by Franz Kafka in 1914 and 1915 but not published until 1925 .
One of Kafka 's best-known works , it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by  a रिमोट , अभिगम्य प्राधिकार , साथ  the nature of his crime revealed to neither him nor the reader .
Like Kafka 's other novels , The Trial was never completed ,  हालांकि it करता शामिल a अध्याय जिससे brings  the story to an end .
Because of this there are  निश्चित  inconsistencies which exist within the novel , such as disparities in timing in addition to other discontinuities in narration .
बाद काफ्का 's मौत in  1924 his friend and literary executor Max Brod edited the text for publication by Verlag Die Schmiede .
The original manuscript is held at the Museum of Modern  साहित्य , marbach am neckar  , Germany .
In 1999 , the  किताब थी सूचीबद्ध in le mondes 100 किताबे of the  Century and as No . 2 of the Best German Novels of the Twentieth Century .
Lisa Anne Loeb ( born March 11 , 1968 ) is an  अमरीकी singer-songwriter  and actress .
She launched her career in 1994 with the song , `` Stay ( I Missed You ) `` , which was included  in the फिल्मी वास्तविकता bites  .
She was the  पहला कलाकार to  have a number one single in the United States while not signed to a recording contract .
Her five studio CDs include her major label debut , the gold-selling Tails and its  follow-up , the grammy-nominated , gold-selling पटाखा  .
Loeb has  भी worked in फिल्मी , टेलीविज़न  , voice-over work and children’s recordings .
Loeb has appeared in two television series , Dweezil & Lisa  , a साप्ताहिक culinary एडवेंचर लिये the खाना संजाल और क्रमांक  1 Single , a reality show on the E !
Network in 2006 focused  on उसके क्वेस्ट लिये प्रेम  , success , career , and family .
Her children 's music includes the albums  कैच the चंद्रमा  ( 2003 ) , and Camp Lisa ( 2008 ) .
Her first joint children 's book and album Lisa Loeb 's Silly  sing-along : the निराशाजनक पैनकेक  and Other Zany Songs was published in 2011 .
In 2010 she founded the Lisa Loeb Eyewear Collection ,  जिससे is आधारित  on her own designs .
The Coat of arms of the State of  नई जर्सी शामिलs:
A shield with three  plows emblazoned , प्रतिनिधि  of New Jersey 's agricultural tradition .
A  forward-facing  knight 's helmet .
A horse 's head as the crest of  the हेल्मेट  .
The female figures Liberty and Ceres , representative of  the राज्य 's motto ( देखिए अगला  item ) .
Liberty is holding a staff supporting a ``  स्वतंत्रता कैप `` ; ceres  is holding an overflowing cornucopia .
The streamer at the  पैर of the emblem  contains the State Motto of New Jersey , `` Liberty and Prosperity '' , and the year of statehood , 1776 .
It was originally  designed  by Pierre Eugene du Simitiere in 1777 and was modified slightly in 1928 .
The seal is the central motif in the flag of New Jersey and the  ग्रेट मुहर of the राज्य  of New Jersey .
The Coat of arms  contains a घोड़ा  's head .
A helmet showing that New Jersey governs itself accordingly and three plows  on a शील्ड referring to the राज्य  's agriculture tradition , giving it the nickname `` Garden State '' .
The  दो देवियाँ represent the  State motto , `` Liberty and Prosperity '' .
स्वतंत्रता  is on the left .
She is holding a staff with a liberty cap on it , and the word liberty  underneath उसके  .
the देवी  on the right is Ceres , goddess of agriculture .
She is  पकड़कर a cornucopia  with prosperity written below her .
According to the minutes of the New Jersey General Assembly for March 11 , 1896 , the date in which the Assembly officially approved the flag as the state emblem , the buff color is  due indirectly to जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , जो था ordered on अक्तूबर 2 , 1779 , कि the वर्दी coats of the नई  Jersey Continental Line be dark ( Jersey ) blue , with buff facings .
Buff-colored facings  था जबतक तब महरूम सुरक्षित तभी लिये उसके अपना  uniform and those of other Continental generals and their aides .
Then , on February 28 , 1780 , the Continental War Officers in Philadelphia directed that the  वर्दी कोट facings of सब regiments यहूद to be the वही  as the background color of the regiments ' state flag .
the मुहर is  described in New Jersey statute Title 52 , §2-1:
`` We Can Work It Out  '' is a सोंग by the  Beatles , written by Paul McCartney and John Lennon .
It was released as a `` double A-sided `` single with `` Day Tripper `` , the first time both sides of a single were so  designated  in an initial release .
Both songs were  अंकित दौरान  the Rubber Soul sessions .
The song is an example of  lennon–mccartney सहयोग at a गहराई कि happened  only rarely after they wrote the hit singles of 1963 .
This song , `` A Day in the Life `` , `` Baby  , तुम 're a समृद्ध man `` और ``  I 've Got a Feeling `` , are among the notable exceptions .
As a  चिकित्सा निदान , pedophilia or paedophilia  is a psychiatric disorder in persons 16 years of age or older typically characterized by a primary or exclusive sexual interest toward prepubescent children ( generally age 11 years or younger , though specific diagnosis criteria for the disorder extends the cut-off point for prepubescence to age 13 ) .
An adolescent who is 16 years of age or older must be at least  पाँच सालो पुरानी than the prepubescent चाइल्ड पहले the आकर्षण  can be diagnosed as pedophilia .
The term has a range of  परिभाषाएं  , as found in psychiatry , psychology , the vernacular , and law enforcement .
The International Classification of Diseases ( ICD ) defines pedophilia as a `` disorder  of वयस्क व्यक्तित्व और आचरण '' in जिससे वहीँ is a यौन वरीयता  for children of prepubertal or early pubertal age .
according to the निदान और सांख्यिकीय हस्तचालित of दिमागी विकार  ( DSM ) , it is a paraphilia in which adults or adolescents 16 years of age or older have intense and recurrent sexual urges towards and fantasies about prepubescent children that they have either acted on or which cause them distress or interpersonal difficulty .
In popular usage ,  pedophilia अर्थात् कोई यौन ब्याज  in children or the act of child sexual abuse , often termed `` pedophilic behavior '' .
For example , The American Heritage Stedman 's Medical Dictionary states , ``  pedophilia is the अधिनियम or  fantasy on the part of an adult of engaging in sexual activity with a child or children . ''
इस आम उपयोग अनुप्रयोग भी extends to the यौन ब्याज  in and sexual contact with pubescent or post-pubescent minors .
Researchers recommend that these imprecise uses be avoided because although people who commit child sexual abuse commonly exhibit the disorder , some offenders do not meet the  नैदानिक निदान मानकों लिये pedophilia और ये मानकों pertain to prepubescents  .
Additionally , not all pedophiles actually commit  ऐसे गाली  .
Pedophilia was first formally recognized and named in  the लेट 19th सदी  .
A significant amount of research in the  क्षेत्रफल  has taken place since the 1980s .
Although mostly documented in men , there are also women who exhibit the disorder , and researchers assume available estimates underrepresent the true number  of मादा pedophiles  .
No cure for pedophilia has been developed , but there are therapies that can reduce the  incidence of a व्यक्ति  committing child sexual abuse .
In the United States , following Kansas v. Hendricks , sex offenders  जो हैं diagnosed साथ  certain mental disorders , particularly pedophilia , can be subject to indefinite civil commitment , under various state laws ( generically called SVP laws ) and the federal Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 .
At present , the exact causes  of  pedophilia have not been conclusively established .
Research suggests that pedophilia may  be correlated साथ  several different neurological abnormalities , and often co-exists with other personality disorders and psychological pathologies .
In the contexts of forensic psychology and law enforcement , a variety of typologies have been suggested to categorize  pedophiles according to बर्ताव  and motivations .
Julio César Chávez ( born Julio César Chávez  gonzález on जुलाई 12 , 1962 ) is a  retired Mexican professional boxer .
Chávez is considered by many people for their sport statistics the  महानतम सेनानी कभी  to come out of Mexico .
He is a six-time world champion in three weight  विभाजन , और लिये अनेक सालो he थी माना  one of the best pound-for-pound boxer in the world .
In a career that spanned over 25 years , Chávez won five world titles in three weight divisions : WBC Super Featherweight in 1984 , WBA  lightweight in 1987 , wbc lightweight  in 1988 , WBC Light Welterweight in 1989 , IBF Light Welterweight in 1990 , and WBC Light Welterweight in 1994 .
He holds records for most successful consecutive defenses of world titles ( 27 ) , most title fights ( 37 ) , most title-fight victories ( 31 )  और he is बाद जो लुई साथ ( 23 ) लिये सबसे  title defenses won by knockout ( 21 ) .
Chávez also has the  longest अपराजित  streak in boxing history , 13 years .
His record was 89-0-1 going into his first loss to  फ्रेंकी रान्डेल और था an 87 लड़ो जीत  streak until his `` draw '' with Whitaker .
Julio César Chávez was known for his outstanding punching power , devastating body attack , remarkably  दमदार chin  and the relentless stalking of his opponents .
He  बाँधने # 24 on ईएसपीएन  's 50 Greatest Boxers Of All Time .
on दिसम्बर  7 , 2010 , he was inducted in the prestigious International Boxing Hall of Fame for the Class of 2011 .
He is the father of  prospect  Omar Chávez and former WBC Middleweight Champion Julio César Chávez , Jr .
`` Selektion `` on the Judenrampe ,  auschwitz , may/june 1944  .
To be sent to the right meant slave labor ; to  the बाएँ , the  gas chamber .
This image shows the arrival of  हंगेरियाई यहूदियों इससे carpatho-ruthenia  , many of them from the Berehov ghetto .
The photographer was Ernst  hofmann or बर्नहार्ड वाल्टर of  the SS . Image courtesy of Yad Vashem
The Holocaust ( from the Greek ' : hólos , `` whole '' and kaustós , `` burnt '' ) also known as the Shoah ( Hebrew : , HaShoah , `` catastrophe '' ; Yiddish : , Churben or Hurban , from the Hebrew for `` destruction '' ) , was the mass  हत्या or नरसंहार of लगभग छह लाख यहूदियों दौरान संसार युद्ध ii , a कार्यक्रम of व्यवस्थित  state-sponsored murder by Nazi Germany , led by Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party , throughout German-occupied territory .
Of the nine million Jews who had resided in Europe  पहले  the Holocaust , approximately two-thirds were killed .
Over one  लाख यहूदी children यहूद मारे  in the Holocaust , as were approximately two million Jewish women and three million Jewish men .
A network of over 40,000 facilities in Germany and German-occupied territory were used to concentrate , hold , and kill Jews  और अन्य पीड़ितों  .
Some scholars argue that the mass murder of the Romani and people with disabilities should be included in the definition , and some use the  आम संज्ञा `` holocaust '' to describe अन्य नाजी द्रव्यमान हत्याएं , सहित those of सोवियत बंदियों of युद्ध  , Polish and Soviet civilians , and homosexuals .
Recent estimates  आधारित on आंकड़े प्राप्त  since the fall of the Soviet Union indicates some ten to eleven million civilians and prisoners of war were intentionally murdered by the Nazi regime .
The persecution and  नरसंहार यहूद  carried out in stages .
Various laws to remove the Jews from civil society , most prominently the Nuremberg Laws , were enacted in Germany  सालो पहले the outbreak of संसार  War II .
Concentration camps were established in which  inmates यहूद वशीभूत to स्लेव  labor until they died of exhaustion or disease .
Where Germany conquered new territory in eastern  यूरोपीय , specialized इकाई पुकारा einsatzgruppen murdered  Jews and political opponents in mass shootings .
The occupiers required Jews and Romani to be confined  in overcrowded ghettos पहले होने transported by भाड़ा  train to extermination camps where , if they survived the journey , most were systematically killed in gas chambers .
Every arm of Germany 's bureaucracy was involved in the logistics that led to the genocides , turning  the तीसरा reich into कया एक holocaust विद्वान रै पुकारा ``  a genocidal state '' .
4-H in the United States is  a युवावस्था संगठन administered by the नेशनल संस्थान of खाना और कृषि of the  United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) , with the mission of `` engaging youth to reach their fullest potential while advancing the field of youth development . ''
The name represents four personal development areas of focus for the  संगठन : सिर , दिल  , hands , and health .
The organization has over 6.5  लाख सदस्यों in the संयुक्त राज्य , इससे आयु  five to twenty-one , in approximately 90,000 clubs .
The goal of 4-H is to develop citizenship ,  नेतृत्व , जिम्मेदारी और जीवन कौशल of युवावस्था through  experiential learning programs and a positive youth development approach .
Though typically  विचार of as an agriculturally केन्द्रित संगठन  as a result of its history , 4-H today focuses on citizenship , healthy living , science , engineering , and technology programs .
Today , 4-H and related programs  मौजूद in over अस्सी देशों  around the world ; the organization and administration varies from country to country .
Each of these programs operates independently , but cooperatively through  अंतरराष्ट्रीय exchanges  , global education programs , and communications .
The 4-H motto is  `` to मेक the बेहतरीन बेहतर '' , जबकि  its slogan is `` Learn by doing '' ( sometimes written as `` Learn to do by doing '' ) .
The national flag of Chile ,  consists of दो गैरबराबरी आड़ा bands of श्वेत  and red and a blue square the same height as the white band in the canton , which bears a white five-pointed star in the center .
It was  अपनाया on 18  October 1817 .
The Chilean flag is also known in Spanish as La  estrella solitaria ( the लोन  Star ) .
The star represents a guide to  प्रगति और सम्मान ; ब्लू symbolizes the आसमान और the  Pacific Ocean , white is for the snow-covered Andes , and red stands for the blood spilled to achieve independence .
According to the epic poem La Araucana , the colors were  निकला इससे those इससे the ध्वज flown  by the Mapuche during the Arauco War .
`` Flag Day '' is held each year on the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers  जो died in the 1882 बैटल of la concepción  .
पीढी y , भी ज्ञात as  the Millennial Generation , is the demographic cohort following Generation X .
वहीँ हैं no precise  dates for when Generation Y starts and ends .
Commentators use beginning birth dates  इससे the latter  1970s , or from the early 1980s to the early 2000s .
The Torches of Nero , by Henryk  siemiradzki  .
According to Tacitus , Nero targeted Christians as  those जिम्मेदार लिये the आग  .
the ग्रेट आग  of Rome ( ) was an urban fire that occurred beginning 19 July AD 64 .
Virginia ( ) , officially the Commonwealth of Virginia , is a U.S. state  स्तिथ in the दक्षिण अटलांटिक प्रदेश of the संयुक्त  States .
Virginia is nicknamed the `` Old Dominion ''  और the `` माँ of राष्ट्रपतियों '' बाद  the eight U.S. presidents born there .
The geography and climate of the Commonwealth are shaped by the Blue  लकीरें kyu  and the Chesapeake Bay , which provide habitat for much of its flora and fauna .
The capital  of the राष्ट्रमंडल is  Richmond ; and Virginia Beach is the most populous city .
फेयरफैक्स  County is the most populous political subdivision .
The wealthiest is Loudoun  काउंटी .
The  राष्ट्रमंडल 's जनसांख्यिकी  is over eight million .
The area 's history begins with  अनेक स्वदेशी  groups , including the Powhatan .
In 1607 the London Company established the  उपनिवेश of वर्जिनिया as the पहला स्थाई  New World English colony .
Slave labor and  the जमीन acquired इससे विस्थापित देशी अमरीकी जनजातियों  each played a significant role in the colony 's early politics and plantation economy .
Virginia was one of the 13 Colonies in the American Revolution and joined the Confederacy in the American Civil War , during which  रिचमंड थी बना the confederate पूंजी और वर्जिनिया 's northwestern  counties seceded to form the state of West Virginia .
Although the Commonwealth was under conservative single-party rule for nearly a century following Reconstruction  , दोनो प्रमुख  national parties are competitive in modern Virginia .
The Virginia General  सभा is the oldest विधानमंडल  in the Western Hemisphere .
The state  सरकारी रै महरूम repeatedly  ranked most effective by the Pew Center on the States .
It is unique in how it treats cities and counties equally , manages local  सड़कें , और prohibits इसके राज्यपालों इससे सेवारत लगातार  terms .
Virginia 's economy has many  सेक्टर : कृषि in the shenandoah  Valley ; federal agencies in Northern Virginia , including the headquarters of the Department of Defense and CIA ; and military facilities in Hampton Roads , the site of the region 's main seaport .
Virginia 's public  स्कूलों और अनेक कॉलेजों और विश्वविद्यालयों  have contributed to growing media and technology sectors .
As a result ,  कंप्यूटर चिप्स have become  the state 's leading export .
Windows Movie Maker ( formerly known as Windows Live Movie Maker ,  codenamed sundance ) is a फ्रीवेयर वीडियो संपादन तन्त्र  by Microsoft .
It is  a भाग of खिड़कियाँ अनिवार्य तन्त्र सुइट और offers the  ability to create and edit videos as well as to publish them on SkyDrive , Facebook , YouTube , and Flickr .
`` Brenda 's Got A Baby '' is the solo debut  सिंगल by तुपाक  Shakur , and tenth track from his debut album , 2Pacalypse Now .
The  सोंग , जिससे सुविधाएँ r & b सिंगर  Dave Hollister , is about a twelve year-old girl named Brenda who lives in a ghetto , has a baby , and is incapable of supporting it .
The song explores the issue of  टीन गर्भावस्था  and its effect on the young mothers and their families .
Like many of Shakur 's songs , `` Brenda  's मिला a baby '' draws इससे the  plight of the impoverished .
Using Brenda to represent young mothers in general , Shakur criticises the low level  of support इससे the baby 's पिता , the सरकारी  , and society in general .
Shakur wrote the song when he read a newspaper article about a twelve-year-old girl who got pregnant from her cousin and , because she did not want her parents to know about  the baby , फेंका it in a कचरा can  .
The official logo of Pokémon for its international release ; ``  पोकीमॉन '' is छोटी लिये the असली जापानी  title of `` Pocket Monsters '' .
is a मीडिया मताधिकार प्रकाशित और स्वामित्व by जापानी  video game company Nintendo and created by Satoshi Tajiri in 1996 .
Originally released as a pair of interlinkable  खेल लड़के role-playing वीडियो  games developed by Game Freak , Pokémon has since become the second-most successful and lucrative video game-based media franchise in the world , behind only Nintendo 's own Mario franchise .
Pokémon properties have since  महरूम merchandised into दुश्मनी , manga  , trading cards , toys , books , and other media .
The franchise celebrated in 2006 , and , cumulative sales of the video games  ( सहित घर कंसोल संस्करण , ऐसे as the `` pikachu '' निन्टेंडो  64 ) have reached more than 200 million copies .
In November 2005 , 4Kids Entertainment , which had managed the non-game related  लाइसेंसिंग of पोकीमॉन , घोषित कि it  had agreed not to renew the Pokémon representation agreement .
Pokémon USA Inc. ( now The Pokémon Company International ) , a subsidiary of Japan 's Pokémon Co. , now  oversees सब पोकीमॉन लाइसेंसिंग बाहर of एशिया .
The name Pokémon is the romanized  संकुचन of the जापानी ब्रांड  .
The term Pokémon , in addition to referring to the Pokémon franchise itself , also collectively refers to the 649 fictional species that have made appearances in Pokémon media as of the  रिलीज of the पांचवां पीढी शीर्षक पोकीमॉन ब्लैक 2 और श्वेत 2 ; साथ the आगामी रिलीज of पोकीमॉन x और y , 6 नई पोकीमॉन have महरूम प्रदर्शित in प्रचार  for the games .
`` Pokémon '' is identical in both the singular and plural , as is each individual species name ; it is grammatically correct to say `` one Pokémon '' and ``  अनेक पोकीमॉन '' , as खूब  as `` one Pikachu `` and `` many Pikachu '' .
Cover of the first edition of the publication  दादा by ट्रिस्टन tzara ; ज्यूरिख ,  1917
Dada ( ) or  dadaism थी an आर्ट गति of the यूरोपीय  avant-garde in the early 20th century .
Many claim Dada began in  ज्यूरिख , स्विट्ज़रलैंड in 1916 , spreading  to Berlin shortly thereafter but the height of New York Dada was the year before in 1915 .
To quote Dona Budd 's  the भाषा of आर्ट ज्ञान , दादा थी  born out of negative reaction to the horrors of World War I .
This international movement was  begun by a समूह of कलाकार और  poets associated with the Cabaret Voltaire in Zurich .
Dada rejected  कारण और लॉजिक , prizing  nonsense , irrationality and intuition .
The  उत्पत्ति of the नाम  Dada is unclear ; some believe that it is a nonsensical word .
Others  maintain कि it originates  from the Romanian artists Tristan Tzara and Marcel Janco 's frequent use of the words da , da , meaning yes , yes in the Romanian language .
Another  सिद्धान्त says कि the नाम ``  Dada '' came during a meeting of the group when a paper knife stuck into a French-German dictionary happened to point to 'dada ' , a French word for 'hobbyhorse ' .
The movement  primarily शामिल विज़ुअल कला , साहित्य , काव्य  , art manifestoes , art theory , theatre , and graphic design , and concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works .
In addition to being anti-war , Dada was also anti- bourgeois and  था  political affinities with the radical left .
Dada activities included public gatherings , demonstrations , and publication of art/literary journals ; passionate  कवरेज of आर्ट , राजनीती , और संस्कृति यहूद  topics often discussed in a variety of media .
Key figures in the movement included Hugo Ball , Emmy Hennings , Hans Arp , Raoul Hausmann , Hannah Höch , Johannes Baader ,  ट्रिस्टन tzara , फ्रांसिस picabia , रिचर्ड huelsenbeck , georg  Grosz , John Heartfield , Marcel Duchamp , Beatrice Wood , Kurt Schwitters , and Hans Richter , among others .
The movement influenced later styles like the avant-garde and downtown  म्यूज़िक आंदोलनों , और समूह सहित  surrealism , Nouveau réalisme , pop art and Fluxus .
Dada is the groundwork to abstract art and sound poetry , a starting point for performance art , a prelude to postmodernism , an  influence on पॉप आर्ट , a जश्न of antiart to be बाद embraced लिये  anarcho-political uses in the 1960s and the movement that lay the foundation for Surrealism .
पहला  trophic level .
The plants in this image , and the algae and  phytoplankton  in the lake , are primary producers .
They take nutrients from the soil or the water ,  और manufacture उनके अपना खाना by  photosynthesis , using energy from the sun .
The trophic level of an  सजीव is the स्थिति  it occupies in a food chain .
the शब्द trophic गर्भाशयी इससे  the Greek τροφή ( trophē ) referring to food or feeding .
A food chain represents a succession of organisms  कि खा  another organism and are , in turn , eaten themselves .
The number of steps an organism is from the start of the chain is a  माप of इसके trophic  level .
Food chains start at trophic level 1 with primary producers such as plants , move to herbivores at level 2 , predators at  स्तर 3 और typically समाप्त साथ  carnivores or apex predators at level 4 or 5 .
The path along the chain  can रूप either a one-way  flow , or a food `` web . ''
Ecological  समुदायों साथ  higher biodiversity form more complex trophic paths .
Four of the most important  domesticated रेशा शलभ  .
Top to bottom : Bombyx mori , Hyalophora  cecropia , antheraea  pernyi , Samia cynthia .
From Meyers  konversations-lexikon (  1885-1892 )
A  silk-producing  raspy cricket .
Silk is a natural protein fibre , some  फ़ॉर्म of जिससे can be woven into वस्त्र .
The protein fibre of silk is composed  मुख्यतः of fibroin और  produced by certain insect larvae to form cocoons .
The best-known type of silk is obtained from the cocoons of the larvae of  the शहतूत silkworm bombyx mori reared in  captivity ( sericulture ) .
The shimmering appearance of silk is due to the triangular prism -like structure of the silk fibre  , जिससे allows रेशा cloth to  refract incoming light at different angles , thus producing different colors .
Silks are produced by several other insects , but  generally तभी  the silk of moth caterpillars has been used for textile manufacturing .
There has been some research into other silks , which differ  at the आणविक स्तर .
Many silks are mainly produced by the larvae of insects undergoing complete metamorphosis , but some adult insects such as webspinners produce silk , and some insects such  as raspy झींगुर उपज रेशा  throughout their lives .
Silk production also occurs in Hymenoptera ( bees , wasps , and ants )  , silverfish , mayflies , thrips  , leafhoppers , beetles , lacewings , fleas , flies and midges .
अन्य प्रकार  of arthropod produce silk , most notably various arachnids such as spiders ( see spider silk ) .
Late Show with David Letterman is an  अमरीकी late-night बात दिखाएँ hosted  by David Letterman on CBS .
The  दिखाएँ debuted on अगस्त 30 , 1993 , और is उत्पादित  by Letterman 's production company , Worldwide Pants Incorporated .
The show  's म्यूज़िक निदेशक और band-leader of the हाउस  band , the CBS Orchestra , is Paul Shaffer .
The head  लेखक is मैट रॉबर्ट्स  and the announcer is Alan Kalter .
Of  the प्रमुख u.S. late-night कार्यक्रम  , Late Show ranks second in cumulative average viewers over time and third in number of episodes over time .
The  दिखाएँ लीड अन्य लेट रात्रि shows  in ad revenue with $ 271 million in 2009 .
In most U.S. markets the show airs at 11:35 p.m. Eastern/Pacific time , but is recorded Monday through  बुधवार at 4:30 p.m. , और गुरुवार at 3:30 p.m और 6:00  p.m .
The second Thursday episode usually  airs on शुक्रवार of कि सप्ताह  .
In 2002 , Late Show with David  लेटरमैन थी क्रमित no . 7 on tv  Guide 's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time .
CBS has a contract with  विश्वव्यापी पैंट to continue  the show through 2014 ; by then , Letterman will surpass Johnny Carson as the longest tenured late-night talk show host .
The Real Housewives of Orange County is an American reality documentary television  कार्यक्रम on ब्रावो , नियत in नारंगी काउंटी  , California .
It was the first The Real  housewives कार्यक्रम in the  series .
The series is a voyeuristic look into the wealthy lives of these housewives , as  वे दूकान , मिलेंगी प्लास्टिक सर्जरी , गपशप  , fight and live lavishly .
The financial crisis , the beginning of which coincided almost exactly with the first season 's broadcast ,  रै चूंकि trimmed the housewives ' lifestyles साथ जॉब नुकसान , evictions , बंधक मूलभूत  , foreclosures , and marital stress—all recorded in progressive seasons of the show .
Cyberstalking is the use of the Internet or other  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक अर्थात् to stalk or harass an व्यक्तिगत  , a group of individuals , or an organization .
It may include the making of false accusations or statements of fact ( as in defamation ) , monitoring , making threats , identity theft , damage to data or equipment , the  solicitation of नाबालिग लिये sex , or  gathering information that may be used to harass .
The definition of `` harassment '' must meet the criterion that a  उचित व्यक्ति , in कब्ज़ा of the वही सूचना , होता  regard it as sufficient to cause another reasonable person distress .
Cyberstalking is different from  स्थानिक or ऑफ़लाइन stalking in कि it occurs  through the use of electronic communications technology such as the internet .
However , it sometimes leads to it  , or  is accompanied by it .
Both are  दण्ड  offenses .
Cyberstalking shares important  विशेषताएँ साथ ऑफ़लाइन stalking  .
Many stalkers – online or off – are  प्रेरित by a ख्वाहिश  to control their victims .
A cyberstalker may be an  ऑनलाइन अजनबी  or a person whom the target knows .
A cyberstalker may be  बेनाम और may  solicit involvement of other people online who do not even know the target .
Cyberstalking is a criminal offense that comes into play under state  anti-stalking कानून , बदनामी कानून , और  harassment laws .
A cyberstalking conviction can result in a restraining order , probation , or even criminal penalties  विरूद्ध the assailant , सहित  jail .
A business letter is usually used when writing from one company to another , or for correspondence between such organizations and their customers ,  क्लाइंट और अन्य  external parties .
The overall style of letter will  निर्भर on the संबंध  between the parties concerned .
वहीँ हैं अनेक कारण  to write a business letter .
It  could  be to request direct information or action from another party , to order supplies from a supplier , to identify a mistake that was committed , to reply directly to a request , to apologize for a wrong or simply to convey goodwill .
Even today , the business letter  is स्टिल बहुत उपयोगी  because it produces a permanent record , is confidential , formal and delivers persuasive , well-considered messages .
Tilapia ( ) is the common name for nearly a hundred  प्रजाति of cichlid मछली इससे  the tilapiine cichlid tribe .
tilapia हैं मुख्यतः freshwater  fish , inhabiting shallow streams , ponds , rivers and lakes , and less commonly found living in brackish water .
Historically , they have been of major importance in artisan fishing in Africa  और the levant , और  are of increasing importance in aquaculture .
Tilapia can become problematic invasive species in new warm-water habitats , whether deliberately or accidentally introduced ,  लकिन generally नहीं in शीतोष्ण climates due to  their inability to survive in cooler waters below about .
Turner & Hooch is a 1989 comedy drama crime film starring Tom Hanks  और beasley the श्वान as the eponymous वर्ण  , Turner and Hooch respectively .
The film also stars Mare  winningham  , Craig T. Nelson , and Reginald VelJohnson .
It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode ; the film was originally slated to be  निर्देशित  by Henry Winkler , but he was terminated due to `` creative differences '' .
It  थी co-written  by Michael Blodgett from Beyond the Valley of the Dolls fame .
Although K-9 ( with James Belushi ) was released prior to this  फिल्मी ( exactly तीन महीने पहले ) , टर्नर & hooch  became more popular and seemingly overshadowed its greater success , even though K-9 had a very similar plot .
A pilot for a Turner & Hooch TV series was  बना और भागा as a भाग of  The Magical World of Disney .
This is a list of Israeli airports  , sorted by स्थान  .
प्रवेश to ovda  Airport
Terminal 3 at Ben  गुरियन
Plane landing at  be'er  Sheva ( Teyman )
Eilat  विमानक्षेत्र
Adolf Hitler (  ; 20 अप्रैल 1889 – 30 अप्रैल 1945 ) थी an आस्ट्रिया -born  German politician and the leader of the Nazi Party ( ( NSDAP ) ; National Socialist German Workers Party ) .
He  थी चांसलर of जर्मनी इससे  1933 to 1945 and dictator of Nazi Germany ( as Führer und Reichskanzler ) from 1934 to 1945 .
हिटलर थी at the केन्द्र  of Nazi Germany , World War II in Europe , and the Holocaust .
Hitler was a decorated  दिग्गज of  World War I .
He joined the German Workers ' Party ( precursor of the NSDAP ) in 1919 , and became leader of  the nsdap  in 1921 .
In  1923 , he attempted  a coup d'état in Munich , known as the Beer Hall Putsch .
The failed coup resulted in  हिटलर 's कारावास  , during which time he wrote his memoir , Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ) .
After his release in 1924 , Hitler gained popular support by attacking the Treaty of  versailles और promoting pan-germanism , antisemitism  , and anti-communism with charismatic oratory and Nazi propaganda .
After his appointment as  चांसलर in 1933 , he रूपांतरित the  Weimar Republic into the Third Reich , a single-party dictatorship based on the totalitarian and autocratic ideology of Nazism .
Hitler 's aim was to establish a New Order of  निरपेक्ष नाजी जर्मनी  hegemony in continental Europe .
To this end , his foreign and domestic policies had the aim of seizing  lebensraum ( `` जीना स्पेस '' ) लिये the  Germanic people .
He directed the  rearmament  of Germany and the invasion of Poland by the Wehrmacht in September 1939 , resulting in the outbreak of World War II in Europe .
Under Hitler 's rule , in 1941 German forces and their European  allies occupied सबसे of यूरोपीय  and North Africa .
In 1943 , Germany had  महरूम मजबूर onto the रक्षात्मक  and suffered a series of escalating defeats .
In the final  दिनों of the युद्ध , दौरान  the Battle of Berlin in 1945 , Hitler married his long-time partner , Eva Braun .
On 30 April 1945 , less than two days later , the two committed  आत्महत्या to avoid कैप्चर by the रेड  Army , and their corpses were burned .
Hitler 's aggressive foreign policy is  माना the प्रमुख कारण  of the outbreak of World War II in Europe .
His antisemitic policies and racially motivated ideology  resulted in the मौतों of at तनिक 5.5 लाख यहूदियों , और लाखो  of other people deemed racially inferior .
अंगूठा
A domain name is an  पहचान स्ट्रिंग कि defines a फ्रेम of  administrative autonomy , authority , or control on the Internet .
Domain names are formed by the rules and procedures of the  डोमेन  Name System ( DNS ) .
Technically , any name registered in  the डीएनएस is  a domain name .
Domain names are used  in विभिन्न नेटवर्किंग contexts और  application-specific naming and addressing purposes .
In general , a domain name represents an Internet Protocol ( IP ) resource , such as a personal computer used to access the Internet , a server  कंप्यूटर होस्टिंग a वेब साईट , or the वेब साईट itself  or any other service communicated via the Internet .
Domain names are organized in subordinate levels  ( subdomains ) of  the DNS root domain , which is nameless .
The first-level set of domain names are the top-level domains ( TLDs ) , including the generic top-level domains ( gTLDs ) , such as  the prominent डोमेन com , सूचना , जाल और  org , and the country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ) .
Below these top-level domains in the DNS hierarchy are the second-level and third-level domain names that are  typically खोलें लिये रिज़र्वेशन by end-users जो काश to कनेक्ट लोकल  area networks to the Internet , create other publicly accessible Internet resources or run web sites .
the पंजीकरण of ये  domain names is usually administered by domain name registrars who sell their services to the public .
A fully qualified domain name ( FQDN ) is a domain  नाम कि is completely  specified in the hierarchy of the DNS , having no omitted parts .
Domain names are usually  लिखा in लोअरकेस  , although labels in the Domain Name System are case-insensitive .
Nitrate is a polyatomic ion with the  आणविक सूत्र no3− और a आणविक द्रव्यमान of 62.0049  g/mol . Nitrates also describe the organic functional group RONO2 .
These nitrate  esters हैं a specialized  class of explosives .
A  गेहूं कटाई  in Idaho
This photo from a 1921  ज्ञानकोष shows a ट्रैक्टर  ploughing a crop field .
Agriculture is a major industry in the United States and the country is a  जाल निर्यातक of खाना  .
As of the last census of agriculture in 2007 , there were 2.2 million farms ,  covering an क्षेत्रफल of , an  average of per farm .
Although agricultural activity occurs in most states , it is particularly  concentrated in the विशाल expanse  of flat , arable land known as the Great Plains , which encompasses the central region of the nation .
The Mpemba effect , named after Tanzanian student  erasto mpemba , is the assertion  that warmer water can freeze faster than colder water .
Although there is anecdotal support for the effect , there is no agreement on  exactly कया the प्रभाव is और  under what circumstances it occurs .
There have been reports of similar phenomena since  प्राचीन टाइम्स , हालांकि साथ अपर्याप्त विवरण  for the claims to be replicated .
The phenomenon seems contrary to  ऊष्मागतिकी , लकिन a क्रमांक of संभावित स्पष्टीकरण  for the effect have been proposed .
Further investigations will need to decide on a precise definition of `` freezing '' and control a vast number  of starting पैरामीटर्स in अनुक्रम  to confirm or explain the effect .
The  siamese ( ,  ) is one of the first distinctly recognized breeds of Oriental cat .
The breed originated in Thailand ( formerly known as Siam ) , where they are one of several native breeds and are  पुकारा wichian mat ( วิเชียรมาศ  , a name meaning `` moon diamond '' ) .
In the 20th century the Siamese cat became one of the most popular  breeds in यूरोपीय और  North America .
Quality Food Centers ( QFC ) is a supermarket chain based in Bellevue , Washington , with 64 stores in the Puget Sound  प्रदेश of वॉशिंगटन राज्य और in  the Portland , Oregon metropolitan area .
In economics , the money supply or money stock , is the total amount of monetary assets available in an  अर्थव्यवस्था at a विशिष्ट समय  .
There are several ways to define `` money , '' but standard measures usually include currency in circulation and demand deposits ( depositors ' easily accessed assets on the books  of वित्तीय संस्थानों ) .
Money supply data are recorded and published , usually by  the सरकारी or  the central bank of the country .
Public and private sector analysts have long monitored  परिवर्तन in धन सप्लाई क्युकी of इसके प्रभाव  on the price level , inflation , the exchange rate and the business cycle .
That relation between money  और कीमतें is historically  associated with the quantity theory of money .
There is strong empirical evidence of a direct relation between money-supply growth and long-term price inflation , at least for rapid increases in the  राशि of धन in the अर्थव्यवस्था .
That is , a country such as Zimbabwe which saw rapid increases in its money  सप्लाई भी देखी रैपिड increases  in prices ( hyperinflation ) .
This is one  कारण लिये  the reliance on monetary policy as a means of controlling inflation .
The nature  of इस  causal chain is the subject of contention .
Some heterodox economists argue that the money supply is  endogenous ( संकल्पित by the workings  of the economy , not by the central bank ) and that the sources of inflation must be found in the distributional structure of the economy .
In addition , those economists  देखकर the सेंट्रल बैंको 's कंट्रोल over the धन सप्लाई as feeble कह कि  there are two weak links between the growth of the money supply and the inflation rate .
First , in the aftermath of a recession , when many resources are underutilized ,  an बढ़ाएँ in the धन सप्लाई can कारण a sustained  increase in real production instead of inflation .
Second , if the velocity of money , i.e. , the ratio between nominal GDP and money supply , changes ,  an बढ़ाएँ in the धन सप्लाई could have  either no effect , an exaggerated effect , or an unpredictable effect on the growth of nominal GDP .
Logo for  imax  .
Warren Theatre IMAX cinema ,  wichita , कान्सास  , USA , 601 seats .
A comparison between 35 mm and  15/70 mm ऋणात्मक  areas .
IMAX ( an abbreviation for Image Maximum ) is a motion picture film format and a  नियत of सिनेमा प्रक्षेप मानकों  created by the Canadian company IMAX Corporation .
IMAX has the  क्षमता to रिकार्ड और प्रदर्शक बिंब  of far greater size and resolution than conventional film systems .
Since 2002 , some feature films have been converted ( or  upgraded ) into imax स्वरूप लिये प्रदर्शक in imax  theatres and some have also been partially shot in IMAX .
IMAX is the most widely used system for special-venue  फिल्मी प्रस्तुतियों  .
, वहीँ हैं  697 IMAX theatres in 52 countries .
Today 's Special is a Canadian children 's  टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ उत्पादित by क्लाइव vanderburgh  at TVOntario from 1981 to 1987 .
It also ran on  निकलोडियन और the आस्था और मान channel/odyssey  ( now the Hallmark Channel ) as well as many PBS stations throughout the United States .
It was set in a department store , based on  the फ्लैगशिप स्थान of the अभी defunct  Simpson 's in Toronto .
Many sequences for it were shot at the Queen  गली  West and Yonge Street store after hours .
संविधानवाद , in इसके सबसे सामान्य अर्थ , is ``  a complex of ideas , attitudes , and patterns of behavior elaborating the principle that the authority of government derives from and is limited by a body of fundamental law '' .
A political organization is constitutional to the  extent कि it `` contain [ s ] institutionalized mechanisms of शक्ति कंट्रोल लिये the सुरक्षा of the रूचि  and liberties of the citizenry , including those that may be in the minority `` .
As described by political  वैज्ञानिक और संवैधानिक  scholar David Fellman :
An ice-cream headache , also known as brain freeze ,  cold-stimulus सिरदर्द , or इसके दिए वैज्ञानिक नाम sphenopalatine ganglioneuralgia (  meaning `` nerve pain of the sphenopalatine ganglion `` ) , is a form of brief cranial pain or headache commonly associated with consumption ( particularly quick consumption ) of cold beverages or foods such as ice cream and ice pops .
It is caused by having something cold touch the roof of the mouth ( palate ) , and  is believed to परिणाम  from a nerve response causing rapid constriction and swelling of blood vessels or a `` referring `` of pain from the roof of the mouth to the head .
The rate of intake for  ठंडा भोजन रै महरूम  studied as a contributing factor .
There are people who  can नहीं अनुभव `` दिमाग  freeze '' or similar symptoms .
The term ice-cream headache has been in use since at least 31 January 1937 , contained in  a जर्नल प्रविष्टि by रेबेका timbres प्रकाशित in  the 1939 book We did n't ask Utopia : a Quaker family in Soviet Russia .
The first published use of the term brain freeze , as  it pertains to cold-induced headaches , थी on  27 May 1991 .
`` Auld Lang Syne '' ( : note `` s ''  बल्कि than ``  z '' ) is a Scots poem written by Robert Burns in 1788 and set to the tune of a traditional folk song ( Roud # 6294 ) .
It is well known in many countries , especially in the  english-speaking संसार ; इसके परंपरागत उपयोग होने to celebrate the  start of the New Year at the stroke of midnight .
By extension , it is also  सुंग at अंत्येष्टि , graduations और  as a farewell or ending to other occasions .
The international Boy Scout youth movement , in  अनेक देशों , उपयोग it as a बंद  to jamborees and other functions .
The song 's Scots title may be translated into English literally as `` old long since '' , or more idiomatically  , `` long long पहले '' , `` दिनों गए by '' or ``  old times '' .
Consequently `` For auld lang syne '' ,  as it appears  in the first line of the chorus , might be loosely translated as `` for ( the sake of ) old times '' .
The phrase `` Auld Lang Syne '' is also used in similar poems by Robert Ayton ( 1570–1638 ) , Allan Ramsay ( 1686–1757 ) , and James Watson ( 1711  ) as खूब as पुरानी लोक गीतों predating  Burns .
Matthew Fitt uses the phrase  `` in the दिनों of auld लैंग syne ''  as the equivalent of `` Once upon a time ...
`` in his retelling of fairy  किस्से in the स्कॉट्स भाषा  .
Ben Schulz  , खिलाड़ी of  Leeroy Jenkins at BlizzCon 2007
Leeroy Jenkins , sometimes misspelled Leroy Jenkins and often elongated  साथ numerous अतिरिक्त अक्षर , is  an Internet meme named for a player character created by Ben Schulz in Blizzard Entertainment 's MMORPG , World of Warcraft .
The character became popular due to a video of  the खेल कि परिचालित around  the Internet .
The phenomenon has since  स्प्रेड परे the सीमाएँ  of the gaming community into other online and mainstream media .
Oscar Grant was fatally shot by BART police  अधिकारी योहानेस mehserle in ओकलैंड  , California , United States , in the early morning hours of New Year 's Day 2009 .
Responding to reports of a fight on a crowded Bay Area Rapid Transit train returning from San Francisco , BART Police officers detained Oscar  ग्रान्ट और अनेक अन्य यात्री on the मंच at the fruitvale बार्ट स्टेशन  .
Officer Johannes Mehserle and another officer  यहूद restraining  Grant , who was prostrate and allegedly resisting arrest .
Officer Mehserle stood and , according to witnesses , said : `` Get back  , i 'm gon na tase  him . ''
Then Mehserle drew his gun and shot  ग्रान्ट एकबार in the वापस ; mehserle appeared  stunned , put his hands to his head and exclaimed , `` Oh , my God ! ''
During his court testimony  , mehserle कहा कि ग्रान्ट  then exclaimed , `` You shot me ! ''
Grant turned out  to be निहत्थे ; he  was pronounced dead the next morning at Highland Hospital in Oakland .
The events were captured on multiple  डिजिटल वीडियो और कोशिका  phone cameras .
The footage was disseminated to media  आउटलेट और to विभिन्न वेबसाइटों  , where it was watched millions of times .
The following days saw  दोनो शांतिपूर्ण और हिंसक  protests .
The shooting  रै महरूम variously  labeled an involuntary manslaughter and a summary execution .
On January 13 , Alameda County prosecutors charged Mehserle with  हत्या लिये the शूटिंग  .
He  resigned उसके स्थिति  and pleaded not guilty .
the विचारण began  on June 10 , 2010 .
Michael Rains , Mehserle 's criminal  रक्षा attorney , argued कि  Mehserle mistakenly shot Grant with his pistol , intending to use his Taser when he saw Grant reaching for his waistband .
Pretrial filings argue that his client did not commit first-degree murder and asked a Los Angeles judge to instruct the jury to limit its deliberations to either  second-degree हत्या or  acquittal .
Oakland civil  अधिकारों attorney जॉन burris दायर a $ 25 लाख  wrongful death claim against BART on behalf of Grant 's family .
On July 8 , 2010 , the jury returned its verdict : Mehserle was found guilty of involuntary  manslaughter और नहीं अपराधी  of second-degree murder and voluntary manslaughter .
Initial protests against the ruling were peacefully organized ; looting , arson , destruction of property , and small riots broke out  बाद  dark .
Nearly 80 people were  आखिरकार  arrested .
On Friday , July 9 , 2010 , the U.S. Justice Department opened a civil  अधिकारों मामला विरूद्ध mehserle ; the संघीय सरकारी can prosecute उसे independently  for the same act under the separate sovereigns exception to double jeopardy .
The Department of Justice will be working  साथ the u.S. attorney 's दफ्तर  in San Francisco and the FBI .
On November 5 , 2010 , Mehserle was sentenced to two years , minus  समय परोसा  .
He served his time in the  लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी  Jail , occupying a private cell away from other prisoners .
he थी released on  June 13 , 2011 and is now on parole .
Major representatives of the  हार्लेम पुनर्जागरण  .
The Harlem Renaissance was a cultural movement that  spanned the  1920s .
At the time , it was  ज्ञात as the `` नई नीग्रो  Movement '' , named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke .
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of New York City , many French-speaking black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris  यहूद भी बहकावे  by the Harlem Renaissance .
The Harlem  पुनर्जागरण is  unofficially recognized to have spanned from about 1919 until the early or mid-1930s .
Many of its ideas  जिया on much longer  .
The zenith of this `` flowering of Negro literature '' , as James Weldon Johnson preferred to call the Harlem Renaissance , was placed between 1924 ( the year that Opportunity : A Journal of Negro Life hosted a party for black  लेखक जहाँ अनेक श्वेत प्रकाशक यहूद in उपस्थिति  ) and 1929 ( the year of the stock market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression ) .
अफ़्रीकी राज्य between  500 BCE and 1500 CE
Obelisk at  टेम्पल  of Luxor , Egypt .
c.  1200 BCE .
African knight of Baguirmi  in पूरा padded armour  suit .
The history of Africa begins with the prehistory of  अफ़्रीकी और the emergence of होमो sapiens in ईस्ट अफ़्रीकी , continuing into the  present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states .
Some early evidence of agriculture in Africa dates from 16,000 BCE , and  metallurgy  from about 4000 BCE .
The recorded history of early civilization arose in Egypt , and later in Nubia ,  the मग़रिब और the सींग of अफ़्रीकी  .
During the Middle  आयु , islam स्प्रेड  through the regions .
Crossing the Maghreb and the Sahel , a major center of  मुस्लिम संस्कृति थी  Timbuktu .
Some notable  pre-colonial राज्य और समाजों in अफ़्रीकी शामिल the nok संस्कृति  , Mali Empire , Ashanti Empire , Kingdom of Mapungubwe , Kingdom of Sine , Kingdom of Saloum , Kingdom of Baol , Kingdom of Zimbabwe , Kingdom of Kongo , Ancient Carthage , Numidia , Mauretania , the Aksumite Empire , the Ajuuraan State and the Adal Sultanate .
From the late 15th century , Europeans and Arabs took slaves from West , Central and  southeast अफ़्रीकी विदेशी  in the African slave trade .
European colonization of Africa developed  rapidly in the हाथापाई लिये अफ़्रीकी of the  late 19th and early 20th centuries .
following struggles लिये स्वतंत्रता in अनेक  parts of the continent , as well as a weakened Europe after the Second World War ; decolonization took place .
अफ़्रीकी 's इतिहास रै महरूम चुनौतीपूर्ण लिये शोधकर्ताओं  in the field of African studies because of the scarcity of written sources in large parts of sub-Saharan Africa .
Scholarly techniques such as the recording of  मौखिक इतिहास , ऐतिहासिक  linguistics , archaeology and genetics have been crucial .
Curry Foley was the first player in Major League  बेसबॉल इतिहास to  hit for the cycle .
In baseball , hitting for the cycle is the accomplishment of one  बैटर hitting a सिंगल ,  a double , a triple , and a home run in the same game .
Collecting the hits in that order is known as  a `` प्राकृतिक साईकिल  '' .
Cycles are uncommon in Major League Baseball ( MLB ) , and have occurred 294 times since the first by  curry फोली in 1882  .
The cycle is roughly as common as a no-hitter ( 279 occurrences in MLB  इतिहास ) ; it रै महरूम पुकारा `` एक of the rarest '' और `` सबसे मुश्किल  feats '' in baseball .
Based on 2009 offensive levels , the probability of an average MLB player  hitting लिये a साईकिल विरूद्ध an औसत टोली in a खेल is लगभग 0.00590 % ; इस corresponds  to about 2.5 cycles in a 162-game season with 30 teams .
In other baseball leagues , the cycle is  हासिल कम अक्सर  .
Through September 4 , 2008 , 62 players in  निप्पन पेशेवर बेसबॉल ( npb ) , the top-level  baseball organization in Japan , have hit for the cycle , the most recent being Michihiro Ogasawara .
Two players have hit for the cycle on the same day once in NPB history ;  इस रै occurred twice in एमएलबी इतिहास  .
One NPB player has also hit for the  साईकिल in an npb all-star  game .
No player has ever hit for the  साईकिल in the एमएलबी all-star  Game or the postseason .
the प्रमुख  slave routes in medieval Africa .
This article discusses systems , history , and  प्रभाव of गुलामी भीतर अफ़्रीकी  .
See Arab slave trade , Atlantic slave trade , Maafa , and Slavery in  समकालीन अफ़्रीकी लिये अन्य चर्चाएँ  .
`` Slave  हस्तांतरण in  Africa '' .
Europeans usually did not  डालें the आंतरिक  regions .
Slavery in Africa has existed throughout  the महाद्वीप लिये अनेक  centuries , and continues in the current day .
Systems of servitude and slavery were common in many parts of the continent , as they  यहूद in much of the प्राचीन संसार .
In most African societies where slavery was prevalent , the enslaved people were largely  treated as indentured बन्दों और  not treated as chattel slaves .
When the Arab slave trade and Atlantic slave trade began , many of the local slave systems changed and began supplying captives for slave  बाज़ार बाहर of  Africa .
Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different  फ़ॉर्म और कुछ of ये do नहीं clearly अनुरूप the  definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world .
Debt slavery , enslavement of war captives , military slavery , and criminal slavery were all  practiced  in various parts of Africa .
Although there had been some trans-Saharan  व्यापार इससे the आंतरिक of sub-saharan अफ़्रीकी to अन्य regions  , slavery was a small part of the economic life of many societies in Africa until the introduction of transcontinental slave trades ( Arab and Atlantic ) .
Slave practices were again transformed with European colonization of Africa and the formal  abolition of गुलामी in the जल्दी  1900s .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications , processes and CPU usage , commit charge and memory information , network activity and statistics , logged-in users , and system services ( and as often is the case with software tools provided by Microsoft for Windows , 3rd  पार्टी तन्त्र is उपलब्धियाँ जिससे भरता the आवश्यकताएँ अधिक thoroughly , e.g , `` प्रक्रम एक्सप्लोरर '' , `` विस्तारित कार्य मैनेजर '' , `` anvir कार्य मैनेजर '' , `` प्रक्रम हैकर  '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set process priorities , processor affinity , forcibly  terminate प्रक्रियाओं , और shut bas  , restart , hibernate or log off from Windows .
Windows Task Manager was  introduced साथ खिड़कियाँ  NT 4.0 .
Previous  संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ  NT included the Task List application , which had far fewer features .
The task list was capable of listing currently running  प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें , or बनाना  a new process .
In Windows  xp तभी , a shutdown मेनू is भी उपस्थित कि  allows access to Standby , Hibernate , Turn off , Restart , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier  संस्करण of microsoft खिड़कियाँ  ( Microsoft Windows 3.x , Windows 95 , Windows 98 ) had a program known as tasks to display the programs currently running .
This file was  चलाया by कार्यशील the taskman.exe  file from the C : \Windows directory .
The Troop is an American-Canadian live-action , single camera comedy -adventure  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय a तिकड़ी of teenagers जो लड़ो और कैप्चर  monsters and other supernatural phenomena that invade the fictional town of Lakewood .
Created and executive produced by Max Burnett ,  ग्रेग कूलिज और क्रिस मॉर्गन  , the series premiered on Nickelodeon on September 18 , 2009 .
The second season premiered on June 25 ,  2011 और निकलोडियन रद्द  the series midway through it 's second season .
The remaining episodes of season 2 were aired on Nicktoons  मगर the पिछला 3..
Sparsely populated in relation to its area , the Democratic Republic of the Congo (  drc ) is घर to a विशाल संभावित of प्राकृतिक  resources and mineral wealth , its untapped deposits of raw minerals are estimated to be worth in excess of US $ 24 trillion , yet the economy of the DRC has declined drastically since the mid-1980s .
At the time  of इसके स्वतंत्रता in 1960 , drc थी the दूसरी सबसे industrialized  country in Africa after South Africa ; it boasted a thriving mining sector and its agriculture sector was relatively productive .
If the viewer stares at this image for 20–60 seconds and  stares at a श्वेत ऑब्जेक्ट , a ऋणात्मक afterimage  will appear ( in this case , it will be cyan on magenta ) .
This can also be achieved by the viewer closing  his/her आँखें और tilting  their head up .
An afterimage or  भुत चित्र or चित्र burn-in is an ऑप्टिकल भ्रम कि refers  to an image continuing to appear in one 's vision after the exposure to the original image has ceased .
One of the most common afterimages is the bright glow that seems to float before one 's eyes after  looking into a लाइट सोर्स लिये a few  seconds .
Closing the eye can help  achieve a बेहतर भाव of the रंग  in its own aspect .
afterimages आइये in दो फ़ॉर्म  , negative ( inverted ) and positive ( retaining original color ) .
The process behind positive afterimages is unknown ,  हालांकि विचार to be सम्बन्धित  to neural adaptation .
On the other hand , negative  afterimages हैं a retinal  phenomenon and are well understood .
Lost is an American serial drama television series that premiered on September 22 , 2004 on the  अमरीकी प्रसारण कम्पनी  ( ABC ) .
The series was created by J. J. Abrams and Damon  lindelof , आधारित upon an असली पायलट स्क्रिप्ट  titled Nowhere written by Jeffrey Lieber .
छह सीज़न of the दिखाएँ aired , in जोड to numerous काटें shows to पूर्वावलोकन पिछला एपीसोड .
ABC announced that Lost would end after six seasons ,  having उत्पादित a कुल of 121 एपीसोड  .
The series follows the past , present , and future experience ( s ) of the survivors of a  प्लेन क्रैश on a यात्री जेट , oceanic उड़ान 815 , उड़ती  from Sydney to Los Angeles after it crashes on a tropical island in the South Pacific .
The series also  शामिल कहानियां of the जीवनदान of लोगों already  living on the island — they include the `` Others `` , who initially antagonize the survivors , as well as a group of people who arrive on the freighter Kahana .
Each episode typically  सुविधाएँ कार्रवाई on the द्वीप  as well as a secondary storyline from another point in a character 's life .
Season 6 features a detailing of the lives of  the survivors in a अलग  reality , as if the flight had never crashed .
In the following list , the term `` featured character ( s ) '' refers to the  अक्षर or वर्ण  who are featured in the secondary storyline of each episode .
``  no  .
in series  '' refers to the एपीसोड  's number in the overall series , whereas `` No .
in season '' refers to the episode 's number in each  particular ऋतु  .
`` U.S. viewers ( million ) '' refers to the  क्रमांक of अमेरिकी  in millions who watched the episode live .
A total of 121 episodes of Lost were produced  , the पिछला of जिससे  aired on May 23 , 2010 .
All seasons are available on DVD in Regions 1–4 and on Blu-ray in  regions a और  B .
Flat feet ( also called pes  planus or गिरे arches  ) is a formal reference to a medical condition in which the arch of the foot collapses , with the entire sole of the foot coming into complete or near-complete contact with the ground .
in कुछ individuals ( an अनुमानित 20–30 % of the सामान्य  population ) the arch simply never develops in one foot ( unilaterally ) or both feet ( bilaterally ) .
Three studies ( see citations below in military section ) of military recruits have shown no evidence of later increased injury , or foot problems , due to  चपटा फीट , in a जनसांख्यिकी of लोगों जो पहुँचें सैन्य सेवा आयु बगैर prior  foot problems .
However , these studies can not  be प्रयुक्त to न्यायधीश संभावित भविष्य  damage from this condition when diagnosed at younger ages .
They also can not be  लागू to व्यक्तियों जिनकी चपटा फीट हैं संबद्ध साथ पैर  symptoms , or certain symptoms in other parts of the body ( such as the leg or back ) possibly referable to the foot .
Generation X , commonly abbreviated to Gen X , is the generation born  बाद the पश्चिमी  post-World War II baby boom .
Demographers , historians and commentators use beginning  जनम तिथियाँ इससे the जल्दी  1960s to the early 1980s .
The term was  popularized by डगलस coupland  's 1991 novel Generation X : Tales for an Accelerated Culture .
Before that , it had been used for various subcultures or  countercultures बाद the 1950s  .
Pressure ulcers , also known as decubitus ulcers or bedsores , are localized injuries to the  स्किन and/or underlying ऊतक प्रायः over a  bony prominence , as a result of pressure , or pressure in combination with shear and/or friction .
Most commonly this will be the sacrum , coccyx , heels or the hips , but other sites such as the  elbows , अदब , ankles or the वापस of the cranium can  be affected .
The cause of pressure ulcers is pressure applied to soft tissue  so कि रक्त प्रवाह to the  soft tissue is completely or partially obstructed .
Shear is also a  कारण ; shear खींचता on  blood vessels that feed the skin .
Pressure ulcers most commonly  develop in व्यक्तियों जो हैं नहीं  moving about or are confined to wheelchairs .
It is  widely believed कि अन्य  factors can influence the tolerance of skin for pressure and shear thereby increasing the risk of pressure ulcer development .
These factors are protein-calorie malnutrition ,  microclimate ( स्किन wetness caused by sweating or incontinence ) , रोगों कि  reduce blood flow to the skin , such as arteriosclerosis or diseases that reduce the feeling in the skin , such as paralysis or neuropathy .
The healing of pressure ulcers may be slowed by  the आयु of the  person , medical conditions ( such as arteriosclerosis , diabetes or infection ) , smoking or medications such as antiinflammatory drugs .
Although often prevented and treatable if found early , pressure ulcers can be very difficult to prevent in critically ill patients , frail elders  , व्हीलचेयर उपयोक्ता ( विशेषकर जहाँ स्पाइनल चोट is शामिल  ) and terminally ill patients .
Primary  रोकथाम is to redistribute दबाव  by turning the patient regularly .
The benefit of turning to avoid further sores is well documented  चूंकि at तनिक the  19th century .
In addition to turning and re-positioning the patient in bed or  व्हीलचेयर , खाने a संतुलित आहार  with adequate protein and keeping the skin free from exposure to urine and stool is very important .
The prevalence of pressure ulcers in hospital settings is high , but  सुधार हैं होने  made .
according to the 2010 ipup ( अंतरराष्ट्रीय दबाव अल्सर व्यापकता सर्वेक्षण ) conducted in  Canada , there was a significant decrease in the overall facility-acquired prevalence of pressure ulcers from 2009-2010 .
Ulcers were most commonly identified at the sacral/coccyx ulcer location ; however , heel ulcers were the most common  facility-acquired स्थान in  the survey .
Overboard is a 1987 American  रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी अभिनीत goldie  Hawn and Kurt Russell .
It was directed by Garry Marshall , produced by Roddy McDowell , and loosely inspired by  the  1974 Italian film Swept Away .
In turn , Overboard was  adapted into the 2006  South Korean television series , Couple or Trouble .
Green Bay is a city in and the county seat of Brown County in  the u.S. राज्य of विस्कॉन्सिन , स्तिथ at  the head of Green Bay , a sub-basin of Lake Michigan , at the mouth of the Fox River .
It has  an उन्नयन of ऊपर समुद्र स्तर  and is located north of Milwaukee .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  104,057 at the 2010 census .
It is the  third-largest नगर  in the state of Wisconsin , after Milwaukee and Madison .
It is also the  third-largest नगर on the वेस्ट shore of झील मिशिगन  , after Chicago and Milwaukee .
Green Bay is home to the  ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League , making it by far the smallest metropolitan area in the USA to host a major professional sports franchise .
Green Bay is the principal city of the Green Bay Metropolitan Statistical Area , which covers Brown , Kewaunee ,  और oconto काउंटी  and had a combined population of 282,599 at the 2000 census .
Green Bay is an industrial city with several meatpacking and  पेपर पौधे , और  a port on Green Bay , an arm of Lake Michigan that locals call the Bay of Green Bay , to avoid conflating it with the eponymous city .
It is home to the National Railroad Museum ; the Neville Public Museum , with exhibitions of art , history , and science ; and  the  University of Wisconsin–Green Bay .
Luteinizing hormone ( LH , also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin ) is a hormone produced by gonadotroph  कोशिकाएं  in the anterior pituitary gland .
In females , an acute rise of LH ( `` LH surge '' ) triggers ovulation and development  of the कॉर्पस luteum  .
In males , where LH had also been called interstitial  cell-stimulating हार्मोन ( icsh ) , it stimulates  Leydig cell production of testosterone .
it अधिनियमों synergistically  with FSH .
Selena  quintanilla-pérez (  April 16 , 1971 – March 31 , 1995 ) , known simply as Selena , was an American singer-songwriter .
She was named the `` top Latin artist of the '90s '' and `` Best selling Latin artist of the decade '' by Billboard for her fourteen top-ten singles  in the शीर्ष लैटिन गीतों चार्ट , सहित सात  number-one hits .
Selena had the most successful singles of 1994 and  1995 , `` amor prohibido `` और `` no me queda más ``  .
She was called `` The Queen of Tejano music `` and the  मैक्सिकन समतुल्य of  Madonna .
Selena released her first album , Selena y Los Dinos , at  the आयु of बारह  .
She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music  पुरस्कार और उतरा a रिकॉर्डिंग अनुबंध  with EMI a few years later .
Her fame grew throughout the early 1990s ,  विशेषकर in spanish-speaking  countries , and she had begun recording in English as well .
Selena was  murdered at the आयु of  23 on March 31 , 1995 by Yolanda Saldívar , the former president of her fan club .
on अप्रैल 12  , 1995 , two weeks after her death , George W. Bush , governor of Texas at the time , declared her birthday `` Selena Day '' in Texas .
Warner Bros. produced Selena , a film  आधारित on उसके जीवन अभिनीत जेनिफर  Lopez , in 1997 .
Selena 's life was also the basis of the musical Selena Forever  अभिनीत वेरोनिका vazquez as सेलिना  .
In June 2006 Selena was commemorated with a life-sized  कांस्य प्रतिमा ( mirador de la flor in कॉर्पस  Christi , Texas ) and a Selena museum opened there .
She has sold over  60 लाख  albums worldwide , making her one of the best-selling artists of all time .
She is also the only female artist to  have पाँच एल्बम in u.s . बिलबोर्ड  200 at the same time .
German Stahlhelm  इससे संसार  War II
Insignia of the  bolivian फौज colorados रेजीमेंट , प्रर्दशित  a Stahlhelm and two crossed bayonets
Stahlhelm ( plural , Stahlhelme ) is  जर्मनी लिये `` स्टील  helmet '' .
The Imperial German Army began to replace the traditional  boiled-leather pickelhaube  ( spiked combat helmet ) with the Stahlhelm during World War I in 1916 .
The term Stahlhelm refers both to a generic steel  हेल्मेट , और अधिक specifically to the distinctive ( और  iconic ) German design .
The Stahlhelm ,  साथ इसके distinctive `` कोयले scuttle `` आकार  , was an instantly recognizable icon for military imagery and became a common element of military propaganda on both sides , just like the Pickelhaube before it .
Its name was also used by the Stahlhelm , a paramilitary nationalist  संगठन  established at the end of 1918 .
glow-in-the-dark  may refer to:
Bioluminescence , the  उत्पादन और उत्सर्जन of लाइट  by a living organism
Chemiluminescence , is the emission of light ( luminescence  ) बगैर उत्सर्जन of ऊष्मा
Phosphorescence , a specific type of photoluminescence related to  प्रतिदीप्ति
Radioluminescence , production of luminescence in a material by  the बमबारी of आयनकारी  radiation
Glow in the Dark Tour , a 2008 concert tour by  kanye  West
Frankfurt Airport serves as a hub city for Lufthansa  और receives फ़्लाइट इससे स्टार  Alliance carriers .
Airline hubs are airports ranked as large , medium , small , and non-hubs as one of the FAA airport categories which are  re-evaluated प्रत्येक साल आधारित on क्रमांक of वाणिज्यिक  passengers .
The more  आम लकिन अनौपचारिक उपयोग लिये  the phrase airline hub is an airport that an airline uses as a transfer point to get passengers to their intended destination .
It is part of a hub and spoke model , where travelers moving between airports not served by direct  फ़्लाइट बदलें  planes en route to their destinations .
This is as  opposed to the  Point to Point model .
Many hubs of the airlines  हैं भी situated at एयरपोर्ट in the शहरों  of the respective head offices .
Some airlines  may उपयोग तभी a सिंगल हब  , while other airlines use multiple hubs .
Hubs are used for both  यात्री फ़्लाइट as  well as cargo flights .
Many  एयरलाइंस  also use focus cities , which function much the same as hubs .
Airlines may also use  द्वितीयक hubs , a non-technical  term for large focus cities .
A  हब in the मध्य of a रूट is अधिक प्रभावी than at either समाप्त as connecting  traffic more easily fills the plane - passengers prefer a one-stop ( two-leg ) route over a two-stop ( three-leg ) route .
Hollow  lacedaemon  .
Site of the Menelaion , the shrine to Helen and  menelaus constructed anciently in the कांस्य  Age city that stood on the hill of Therapne on the left bank of the Eurotas River overlooking the future site of Dorian Sparta .
Across the valley the successive ridges of  माउंट taygetus हैं  in evidence .
Sparta ( Doric Greek : ; Attic Greek : ) , or Lacedaemon , was a prominent city-state in ancient Greece ,  situated on the बैंको of the eurotas नदी in laconia , in south-eastern  Peloponnese .
It emerged as a political entity around the 10th century BC , when the invading Dorians  subjugated the लोकल , non-dorian  population .
around 650 bc , it रोज़ to become the प्रबल  military land-power in ancient Greece .
Given its military pre-eminence , Sparta was recognized as the  overall नेता of the संयुक्त  Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars .
between 431 और 404 bc , स्पार्टा थी the प्रिंसिपल  enemy of Athens during the Peloponnesian War , from which it emerged victorious , though at great cost .
Sparta 's defeat  by thebes in the बैटल of leuctra  in 371 BC ended Sparta 's prominent role in Greece .
However , it  कायम इसके  political independence until the Roman conquest of Greece in 146 BC .
It  तब underwent a long  period of decline , especially in the Middle Ages , when many Spartans moved to live in Mystras .
Modern Sparta is the capital of the Greek regional unit of Laconia and a center for the processing of goods  ऐसे as citrus और  olives .
Sparta was unique in ancient Greece for its social system and  संविधान , जिससे completely केन्द्रित on सैन्य  training and excellence .
Its inhabitants were classified as Spartiates ( Spartan citizens , who enjoyed full rights ) , Mothakes (  non-spartan फ़्री मेन उठाया as spartans ) , perioikoi ( freedmen  ) , and Helots ( state-owned serfs , enslaved non-Spartan local population ) .
Spartiates  underwent the कठोर agoge प्रशिक्षण  and education regimen , and Spartan phalanges were widely considered to be among the best in battle .
Spartan women  enjoyed considerably अधिक अधिकारों  and equality to men than elsewhere in the classical world .
Sparta was the subject of fascination in its own day , as well as in the West following the  पुनरुद्धार of शास्त्रीय सीखना  .
This love or  admiration of स्पार्टा is ज्ञात  as Laconism or Laconophilia .
Fantasy football is  an इंटरैक्टिव  competition in which users compete against each other as general managers of virtual teams .
The players that an individual is able to manage are professional American football players in  the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग  .
The different actions  लोगों हैं समर्थ to मेक हैं drafting  , trading , adding or dropping players , and changing rosters .
Due  to the विकास of the अंतरजाल , काल्पनिक फ़ुटबॉल रै vastly increased in लोकप्रियता  , particularly because Fantasy football providers such as ESPN , Yahoo , CBS , and the NFL itself are able to keep track of statistics entirely online , eliminating the need to check box scores and newspapers regularly to keep track of players .
Most leagues have a  सिंगल सप्ताह चैंपियनशिप in सप्ताह  16 of the NFL season .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections ( red , orange ,  ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो  historical estimates ( black ) .
Actual recorded population figures are  in  blue .
According to the highest estimate , the world population may rise  to 16 अरब by 2100 ; according to the न्यूनतम  estimate , it may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is  the कुल  number of living humans on Earth .
As of today , it is estimated to  क्रमांक अरब by  the United States Census Bureau ( USCB ) .
the uscb estimates कि  the world population exceeded 7 billion on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by the United Nations Population Fund ,  it पहुँचे इस पड़ाव  on October 31 , 2011 .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine  और the ब्लैक मौत in 1350 , जब it stood at  around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth –  वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर 1.8 % प्रति साल – यहूद देखी briefly दौरान the  1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The  विकास  rate peaked at 2.2 % in 1963 , and had declined to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 138 million , and are now expected to remain essentially constant at their 2011 level of 134 million ,  जबकि मौतों क्रमांक 56 लाख प्रति साल , और हैं अपेक्षित  to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but a steady decline in the  जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ) , साथ the वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी अपेक्षित to पहुँचें between 7.5 और  10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various longer-term estimates predict further growth , stagnation , or even overall  मनाही in the वैश्विक  population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth , citing the growing  pressures on the पर्यावरण , वैश्विक  food supplies , and energy resources .
Skeletal muscles  होमो sapiens
This is  a तालिका  of muscles of the human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical human , and almost every muscle constitutes one part of a pair of  एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां , मिला on दोनो पहलू , resulting in लगभग 320 pairs of मांसपेशियां  , as presented in this article .
nevertheless , the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल to define क्युकी  different sources group muscles differently , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
Examples  दायरा इससे  640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human body can be categorized  into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating to the सिर  and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers to the action of  प्रत्येक मांसपेशी  from the standard anatomical position .
in अन्य स्थितियाँ  , other actions may be performed .
A gold bar is a quantity of refined metallic gold  of कोई आकार कि is बना by a बार निर्माता  meeting standard conditions of manufacture , labeling , and record keeping .
larger सुनहरा बार कि  are produced by pouring the molten metal into molds are called ingots .
Smaller bars may be  manufactured by minting  or stamping from appropriately rolled gold sheets .
the मानक सुनहरा बार आयोजित as सुनहरा  reserves by central banks and traded among bullion dealers is the 400-troy-ounce ( 12.4 kg or 438.9 ounces ) Good Delivery gold bar .
The kilobar , which is to say 1000 grams in  द्रव्यमान , is the बार कि is  more manageable and is used extensively for trading and investment .
The premium on these bars when traded is very low  over the स्पॉट  value of the gold making it ideal for small transfers between banks and traders .
Most kilobars are flat , although some  निवेशकों , विशेषकर in यूरोपीय  , prefer the brick shape .
Elisha  आर्चिबाल्ड `` आर्ची '' मैनिंग iii ( born may 19 , 1949 ) is a पूर्व  American football quarterback in the National Football League , playing for the New Orleans Saints from 1971 to 1982 , then for the Houston Oilers and Minnesota Vikings .
He is the father of current Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning , current New York Giants starting  क्वार्टरबैक एली मैनिंग , और पूर्व ओले मिस receiver  Cooper Manning .
Advocacy is a  राजनैतिक प्रक्रम by an  individual or group which aims to influence public-policy and resource allocation decisions within political , economic , and social systems and institutions .
Advocacy can include many activities that a person  or संगठन undertakes सहित  media campaigns , public speaking , commissioning and publishing research or polls or the filing of an amicus brief .
Lobbying ( often by lobby groups ) is a form of advocacy where a  सीधा दृष्टिकोण is बना to विधायक  on an issue which plays a significant role in modern politics .
Research is beginning to explore how  वकालत समूह in the u.S. और कनाडा हैं  using social media to facilitate civic engagement and collective action .
The  ध्वज of मैक्सिको (  Spanish : Bandera de México ) is a vertical tricolor of green , white , and red with the national coat of arms charged in the center of the white stripe .
While the meaning of the colors has changed  over समय , ये तीन रंगों यहूद अपनाया by मैक्सिको following  independence from Spain during the country 's War of Independence , and subsequent First Mexican Empire .
The current flag was adopted in 1968 , but the overall design has been used since 1821 ,  जब the पहला नेशनल ध्वज थी  created .
The current law of  नेशनल प्रतीकों , विधि on the नेशनल  Arms , Flag , and Anthem , that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984 .
Red , white , and green  हैं the रंगों of the नेशनल  liberation army in Mexico .
The central emblem is the Aztec pictogram for Tenochtitlan ( now  मैक्सिको  City ) , the center of their empire .
It recalls the legend that inspired  the aztecs to  settle on what was originally a lake-island .
The form of the coat of arms was most  recently संशोधित  in 1968 .
A ribbon in the national  रंगों is at the नीचे  of the coat of arms .
Throughout history ,  the ध्वज रै बदला चार टाइम्स  , as the design of the coat of arms and the length-width ratios of the flag have been modified .
However , the coat of arms has had the same features throughout : an eagle , holding a serpent in its talon ,  is perched on शीर्ष of a prickly नाशपाती कैक्टस ; the कैक्टस  is situated on a rock that rises above a lake .
The  कोट of बाहें is निकला इससे  an Aztec legend that their gods told them to build a city where they spot an eagle on a nopal eating a serpent , which is now Mexico City .
The current national flag , the Fourth National Flag , is also used as the Mexican naval  ensign by जहाजों पंजीकृत  in Mexico .
A destination marketing  संगठन  or convention and visitor bureau promotes a town , city , region , or country in order to increase the number of visitors .
It promotes the development  और विपणन of  a destination , focusing on convention sales , tourism marketing , and services .
Such organizations promote economic development of a destination by increasing visits from tourists and business travelers , which generates overnight lodging for a  गंतव्य  , visits to restaurants , and shopping revenues .
Convention and visitor bureaus are the most important tourism marketing organizations in their respective tourist destinations , as they are directly responsible for marketing the destination brand through  सफर और पर्यटन `` उत्पाद जागरूकता ''  to visitors .
DMOs produce billions of dollars in direct and indirect revenue and taxes for  उनके गंतव्यों ' economies साथ उनके  marketing and sales expertise .
गंतव्य विपणन संगठन हैं प्रायः पुकारा  travel , convention , visitors , or tourism bureaux , welcome centers , information centers and more .
Regardless  of the नाम , ये संगठन  offer many services to the traveling public .
The elk or wapiti ( Cervus canadensis ) is one  of the largest  species of deer in the world , and one of the largest land mammals in North America and eastern Asia .
It was long  believed to be a subspecies of the यूरोपीय  red deer ( Cervus elaphus ) , but evidence from a 2004 study of the mitochondrial DNA indicates that the two are distinct species .
This animal should not be confused with the larger moose ( Alces alces ) , to which  the नाम `` नीलगाय '' applies in  Eurasia .
अलावा इससे  the moose , the only other member of the deer family to rival the elk in size is the south Asian sambar ( Rusa unicolor ) .
नीलगाय दायरा in वन और forest-edge आवास , feeding  on grasses , plants , leaves , and bark .
Although native to North America and eastern Asia , they  have adapted खूब to देशों जहाँ वे have  been introduced , including Argentina , Australia , and New Zealand .
Their great adaptability may threaten endemic  प्रजाति और ecosystems  into which they have been introduced .
Male elk have large antlers  जिससे हैं शेड प्रत्येक  year .
Males also engage in ritualized mating behaviors during the rut , including posturing , antler wrestling ( sparring ) , and  bugling , a लाउड श्रेणी of vocalizations जिससे  establishes dominance over other males and attracts females .
Elk are susceptible to a number of infectious diseases , some  of जिससे can be transmitted to पशुधन  .
Efforts to eliminate  संक्रामक रोगों इससे नीलगाय populations  , largely through vaccination , have had mixed success .
Some cultures  आदर the नीलगाय  as a spiritual force .
In parts of Asia , antlers and their velvet are used in  परंपरागत दवाइयाँ  .
Elk are hunted as  a खेल प्रजाति ; the  meat is leaner and higher in protein than beef or chicken .
The George Washington  विश्वविद्यालयों ( gw , gwu , or  George Washington ) is a comprehensive private , coeducational research university located in Washington , D.C. .
It awards certificates , Bachelor degrees , Masters degrees ,  और phds आरपार अनेक दर्जन  disciplines .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों थी चार्टर्ड by an अधिनियम of  Congress on February 9 , 1821 as The Columbian College in the District of Columbia .
The lion ( Panthera  leo ) is एक of the चार  big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae .
With some males exceeding in weight , it is the  second-largest जीना  cat after the tiger .
Wild lions currently exist in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia ( where an endangered remnant population  resides in गिर वन नेशनल पार्क in इण्डिया ) जबकि अन्य प्रकार of शेर have  disappeared from North Africa and Southwest Asia in historic times .
Until the late Pleistocene , about  10,000 सालो पहले ,  the lion was the most widespread large land mammal after humans .
They were found  in सबसे of अफ़्रीकी , आरपार यूरेशिया  from western Europe to India , and in the Americas from the Yukon to Peru .
The lion is a vulnerable species , having seen a major population decline of 30–50 % over the past two decades in  इसके अफ़्रीकी दायरा  .
Lion populations are  untenable बाहर  designated reserves and national parks .
Although the cause of the decline is not fully  समझा , आवास घाटा और विरोध साथ इंसानो  are currently the greatest causes of concern .
Within Africa , the West  अफ़्रीकी शेर जनसांख्यिकी is विशेषकर  endangered .
Lions live for 10–14 years in the wild , while  in captivity  they can live longer than 20 years .
In the wild , males  seldom सजीव  longer than 10 years , as injuries sustained from continual fighting with rival males greatly reduce their longevity .
They typically inhabit savanna and  घासभूमि  , although they may take to bush and forest .
Lions are unusually social  compared to अन्य  cats .
A pride of lions consists of related females and offspring and a small number of adult  males  .
समूह of मादा शेर  typically hunt together , preying mostly on large ungulates .
Lions are apex and keystone predators ,  हालांकि वे scavenge as अवसर  allows .
While lions do not typically hunt  इंसानो , कुछ have महरूम ज्ञात  to do so .
Sleeping mainly during the day , lions are primarily nocturnal ,  हालांकि bordering on crepuscular in प्रकृति  .
Highly  distinctive , the पुरूष शेर is easily recognised by इसके  mane , and its face is one of the most widely recognised animal symbols in human culture .
Depictions have existed from the Upper Paleolithic period ,  साथ उत्कीर्णन और paintings इससे the lascaux और chauvet गुफाएं , through  virtually all ancient and medieval cultures where they once occurred .
It has been extensively depicted in  sculptures , in paintings , on नेशनल ध्वज , और  in contemporary films and literature .
Lions have been kept in  menageries चूंकि the समय of the रोमन साम्राज्य  , and have been a key species sought for exhibition in zoos over the world since the late 18th century .
Zoos are cooperating worldwide in breeding programs for the endangered   Asiatic subspecies .
In the  इतिहास of वीडियो खेल , the सातवाँ पीढी of  consoles is the previous generation , and includes consoles released since late by Nintendo , Microsoft , and Sony .
For home consoles , the seventh generation began on 22 November 2005 with  the रिलीज of एक्सबॉक्स 360 और जारी  with the release of PlayStation 3 on 11 November 2006 , and Wii on 19 November 2006 .
Each new console introduced a new type of breakthrough  in प्रौद्योगिकी  .
The Xbox 360 offered games rendered natively at HD resolutions , the PlayStation 3  offered , in जोड to fhd गेमिंग , hd फिल्म प्लेबैक via a built-in 3d blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी , और the  Wii focused on integrating controllers with movement sensors as well as joysticks .
Joining Nintendo in the motion market , Sony released the  प्लेस्टेशन मूव in सितंबर 2010  .
The PlayStation Move features motion sensing  गेमिंग , समान to कि of the  Wii .
Microsoft  भी joined सोनी और  Nintendo , with its Kinect .
Unlike the other  दो प्रणालियों ( प्लेस्टेशन  3 and Wii ) , Kinect does not use any controllers of any sort and makes the users the `` controller . ''
Having sold 8 million units in its first 60 days on the market , Kinect has claimed the Guinness World Record  of होने the ``  fastest selling consumer electronics device '' .
While the Xbox 360 offers wired controllers as a standalone product ,  सब प्लेस्टेशन 3 परिरक्षक can  be used in wired and wireless configurations .
Starting with handheld  consoles , the सातवाँ पीढी began on 21 नवम्बर 2004 साथ  the North American introduction of the Nintendo DS as a `` third pillar '' , alongside Nintendo 's existing Game Boy Advance and GameCube consoles .
The Nintendo DS ( NDS ) features a touch screen and  built-in माइक्रोफोन  , and supports wireless IEEE 802.11 ( Wi-Fi ) standards .
Additionally , the revised version of the NDS , the DSi , features two built in cameras , the ability to download games from  the dsi स्टोर , और a वेब  browser .
The  प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल , or psp , released  later the same year on 12 December 2004 , followed a different pattern .
It became the first handheld video game console to use an optical disc format , Universal  मीडिया डिस्क ( umd ) , as इसके प्राथमिक  storage media .
Sony also gave the PSP robust multi-media capability , connectivity with  the प्लेस्टेशन 3 और अन्य  PSPs , and Internet connectivity .
The Nintendo DS likewise has connectivity to the internet  through the निन्टेंडो wi-fi कनेक्शन  and Nintendo DS Browser , as well as wireless connectivity to other DS systems and Wii consoles .
Despite high sales numbers for both consoles , PlayStation Portable sales have consistently lagged behind those of the Nintendo DS ;  nevertheless , the प्लेस्टेशन पोर्टेबल रै the भेद  of being the best-selling non-Nintendo handheld gaming system .
Sgt . Pepper 's Lonely Hearts  क्लबों बैंड ( प्रायः shortened to sgt . pepper ) is the आठवीं स्टुडियो  album by English rock band the Beatles .
Released in June 1967 , the album included songs such as `` With a Little Help from My Friends `` , `` Lucy in the Sky with  ईंट `` , और `` a दिन in the जीवन  `` .
Continuing the artistic maturation seen on the band 's album Revolver ( 1966 ) , Sgt . Pepper further departed from the conventional pop rock idiom of the time and incorporated  balladry , साइकेडेलिक , म्यूज़िक हॉल , और symphonic  influences .
दौरान the sgt . pepper सत्र ,  the group improved upon the quality of their music 's production while exploring experimental recording techniques .
Producer George Martin 's innovative approach  शामिल the उपयोग of an ऑर्केस्ट्रा  .
Widely acclaimed and imitated , the  एल्बम कवर , designed by अंग्रेज़ी पॉप कलाकारों पीटर ब्लेक और jann haworth , थी प्रेरित  by a sketch by Paul McCartney that depicted the band posing in front of a collage of some of their favourite celebrities .
Sgt . Pepper was a worldwide critical and  वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी , बिता 27 सप्ताह at the शीर्ष of the uk एल्बम चार्ट और  15 weeks at number one on the US Billboard 200 .
A seminal work in the emerging psychedelic rock style , the  एल्बम थी critically acclaimed upon रिलीज और  won four Grammy Awards in 1968 .
साथ an अनुमानित 32 लाख  copies sold , it is one of the world 's best selling albums .
Sgt . Pepper is considered by many to be the most influential and famous rock album ever , and has been named the greatest album of all  समय by दोनो सब समय शीर्ष 1000 एल्बम और  Rolling Stone .
The temporal lobe is a region of the cerebral cortex that is  स्तिथ beneath the पार्श्ववर्ती फिशर on दोनो दिमागी बांटती  of the mammalian brain .
The temporal lobes are involved in the retention of visual memories , processing sensory  इनपुट , comprehending भाषा , storing नई  memories , emotion , and deriving meaning .
The human lungs are the organs of  श्वसन  in humans .
Humans have two  फेफड़े  , a right lung and a left lung .
The right lung consists of three lobes while the left lung is slightly smaller  consisting of तभी दो निर्मोक ( the बाएँ फेफड़ों रै a `` हृदय  notch '' allowing space for the heart within the chest ) .
Together , the lungs contain approximately of airways and 300 to 500 million alveoli , having a  कुल सतह क्षेत्रफल of परिचय ( ) in वयस्कों  — roughly the same area as one side of a tennis court .
Furthermore , if all of the capillaries that  घेर the alveoli यहूद  unwound and laid end to end , they would extend for about .
Each lung weighs , therefore  बनाना the संपूर्ण अंग  about .
Human  फेफड़े
The   trachea divides into two bronchi ( one for each side ) at the level of T4 .
This junction is  भी ज्ञात as the  carina .
The conducting zone  contains the श्वासनली , the bronchi , the bronchioles ,  and the terminal bronchioles The respiratory zone contains the respiratory bronchioles , the alveolar ducts , and the alveoli .
The conducting zone and the respiratory stuffers  ( लकिन नहीं the alveoli ) हैं बना up of एयरवेज़  .
The conducting zone has no  गैस एक्सचेंज साथ the रक्त , और is reinforced साथ उपास्थि  in order to hold open the airways .
The conducting  मण्डल warms  the air to and humidifies the air .
it भी cleanses the एयर by निकालना अणु  via cilia located on the walls of all the passageways .
the फेफड़े  are surrounded by the rib cage .
The  respiratory मण्डल is the  site of gas exchange with blood .
The sympathetic nervous system via  noradrenaline एक्टिंग on the बीटा receptors  causes bronchodilation .
The parasympathetic nervous system via acetylcholine , which acts on the M-3  muscarinic receptors , maintains  the resting tone of the bronchiolar smooth muscle .
This action is related ,  हालांकि माना पृथक  from bronchoconstriction .
Many other  non-autonomic बेचैन और biochemical stimuli , सहित  carbon dioxide and oxygen , are also involved in the regulation process .
The pleural cavity is the potential space between the parietal pleura , lining the inner wall of  the thoracic पिंजरा , और the visceral pleura अस्तर  the lungs .
The lung parenchyma is strictly used  to refer solely to alveolar ऊतक  with respiratory bronchioles , alveolar ducts and terminal bronchioles .
However , it often  शामिल कोई रूप of फेफड़ों ऊतक , भी सहित bronchioles  , bronchi , blood vessels and lung interstitium .
The margarita is a Mexican cocktail consisting of tequila mixed with Cointreau or similar orange -flavoured liqueur and lime or  नीबू रस , प्रायः परोसा साथ नमक  on the glass rim .
It is the most common  tequila-based कॉकटेल in  the United States .
The drink is served shaken with ice ( on the rocks ) , blended  साथ बर्फ ( frozen मार्गरिटा ) , or बगैर  ice ( straight up ) .
Two bottles of red  बरगंडी वाइन इससे gevrey-chambertin  , Côtes de Nuits
Burgundy is a  अंधेरा रेड रंग संबद्ध  with the Burgundy wine of the same name , which in turn is named after the Burgundy region of France .
The color  बरगंडी is समान to  other shades of dark red such as maroon .
जब referring  to the color , `` burgundy '' is usually not capitalized .
The first recorded use of `` burgundy ''  as a रंग नाम in अंग्रेज़ी  was in 1881 .
Grave of an unknown British soldier , killed in 1943  दौरान the बैटल  of Leros .
Because his identity is  अनजान , he  is missing in action .
Grave of an unknown American  सिपाही in oise-aisne कब्रिस्तान  .
मारे  in 1917
Grave  of an अनजान छत्रसेना  , killed in the Battle of Arnhem , 1944 .
Photographed  in अप्रैल  1945
Graves of 11 unknown  अंग्रेजों सैनिको मारे  during World War II , in Rhodes CWGC war cemetery
Wall crypts containing remains of  अनजान इतालवी सैनिको  killed during World War II , in a Rhodes cemetery
Some of the 72,000 names  inscribed on the thiepval  Memorial to the Missing of the Somme
Graves of unknown French soldiers killed during  संसार युद्ध  One .
Each concrete  क्रॉस रै a  metal plaque bearing the word `` Inconnu '' i.e . `` Unknown ''
Ossuary at  the gallipoli रणभूमि , containing  the remains of 3000 unidentified French soldiers who died in 1915
Graves of  अनजान eritrean  Ascaris killed in 1941 during the Battle of Keren
Missing in action ( MIA ) is a casualty  श्रेणी आबंटित  under the Status of Missing to armed services personnel who are reported missing during active service .
They may have been killed , wounded , become a  कैदी of युद्ध , or उजाड़  .
If deceased , neither their remains nor grave  can be positively  identified .
Becoming MIA has been an occupational risk for service personnel for as  long as वहीँ रै महरूम warfare  .
कक्ष  of Commerce Building in Center .
This building is the original jail  , निर्मित साथ साथ the ऐतिहासिक  Courthouse .
Both sit on  the कस्बा वर्गाकार  .
The Rio  थिएटर in  Center
First Baptist Church at 117 Cora Street in Center  is स्तिथ  next to the downtown section .
First Christian Church at 124 Cora Street in Center is one of the  oldest congregations in the जातियाँ  .
Center is a city in  शेल्बी काउंटी ,  Texas , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 5,193 at the 2010 census .
It is the county  सीट of  Shelby County .
It is named for its location near the  बीच of  Shelby County , not for its location in Texas as it is located near the Louisiana border .
Intense  red-eye प्रभाव in ब्लू आँखें  with dilated pupil
The red-eye effect in photography is the common appearance of red pupils in  रंग छायाचित्र of आँखें .
It occurs  जब using a फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक  flash very close to the camera lens ( as with most compact cameras ) , in ambient low light .
The  प्रभाव appears in the आँखें of  humans and animals that have tapetum lucidum .
Theatrical followspot operators , positioned  nearly coincidentally साथ  a very bright light and somewhat distant from the actors , occasionally witness red-eye in actors on stage .
The effect is not visible to the rest of the audience because it is reliant on the very small  कोण between the followspot ऑपरेटर  and the light .
The University of California ,  सांता बारबरा ( commonly referred to as uc सांता बारबरा or ucsb ) is  a public research university and one of the ten general campuses of the University of California system .
The main campus is located on a site in Goleta  , कैलिफ़ोर्निया , संयुक्त राज्य , इससे सांता बारबरा  and northwest of Los Angeles .
Tracing its roots back to 1891 as an independent teachers ' college , UCSB joined the University of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया प्रणाली in 1944 और is the third-oldest general-education  campus in the system .
UCSB is one of America 's Public Ivy  विश्वविद्यालयों , जिससे recognizes  top public research universities in the United States .
The university is a comprehensive doctoral university and is organized into five colleges and schools offering 87 undergraduate  डिग्री और 55 ग्रैजुएट डिग्री  .
The campus is the 6th-largest in the UC system by enrollment  साथ 18,977 undergraduate  and 2,950 graduate students .
in 2012  , UCSB was ranked 41st among `` National Universities '' and 10th among public universities by U.S. News & World Report .
The university was also ranked 35th worldwide by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings and 34th worldwide ( 6th worldwide for  अभियान्त्रिकी ) by the अकादमिक रैंकिंग of संसार विश्वविद्यालयों in 2012.  < ref name= '' Shanghairanking.com/FieldENG2012 '' >
UC Santa Barbara is a `` very high activity '' research university and spent $ 191.2 million on research expenditures in the 2007 fiscal  साल , 97th-largest in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
UCSB houses twelve  नेशनल शोध centers  , including the renowned Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics .
UCSB faculty includes five Nobel Prize laureates , one Fields Medalist ,  29 सदस्यों of the नेशनल अकादमी of sciences  , 27 members of the National Academy of Engineering , and 31 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences .
UCSB was the No . 3 host on the ARPAnet  और थी निर्वाचित  to the Association of American Universities in 1995 .
The UC Santa Barbara Gauchos compete in the NCAA Division  i बिग वेस्ट सम्मेलन .
The Gauchos have won NCAA national championships in  मेन 's सॉकर और मेन  's water polo .
Saint Joseph with the Infant Jesus by  guido reni
Saint Joseph 's Day , March 19 , the Feast of St.  जोसेफ is in पश्चिमी christianity the  principal feast day of Saint Joseph , Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary .
He is also  the step-father of यीशु  of Nazareth /Jesus Christ .
It has the rank of a solemnity in the  रोमन कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर ; catholics जो follow the missal  of 1962 celebrate it as a first class feast .
Previous to 1962 it was celebrated as a feast of the rank of double of the  पहला  class .
It is a feast or commemoration in the provinces of the  anglican नियाज़ , और  a feast or festival in the Lutheran Church .
Saint Joseph 's Day is the Patronal Feast day for Poland as well as for Canada , persons named Joseph , Josephine , etc. , for religious institutes  , स्कूलों और parishes bearing उसके नाम , और लिये बढ़ई  .
It is also Father 's Day in some Catholic countries ,  मुख्यतः स्पेन , पुर्तगाल ,  and Italy .
March 19 was dedicated to Saint Joseph in several Western calendars by the tenth  सदी , और इस कस्टम थी स्थापित  in Rome by 1479 .
Pope St. Pius V extended its use to the entire Roman Rite by his Apostolic  संविधान quo primum ( जुलाई 14 ,  1570 ) .
चूंकि 1969 , एपिस्कोपल सम्मेलनों may , if वे काश , ट्रांसफ़र  it to a date outside Lent .
between 1870 और 1955 , a feast थी मनाये in सम्मान  of St. Joseph as Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary and Patron of the Universal Church , the latter title having been given to him by Pope Pius IX .
Originally celebrated on the third Sunday after Easter with an octave ,  बाद divino afflatu of st. पायस x ( देखिए  Reform of the Roman Breviary by Pope Pius X ) , it was moved to the preceding Wednesday .
The feast was also retitled The Solemnity of  संत जोसेफ  .
This  जश्न और इसके accompanying  octave was abolished during the modernisation and simplification of rubrics under Pope Pius XII in 1955 .
It is  स्टिल कायम by catholics  who follow the missal of 1962 or earlier missals .
As  the परंपरागत अवकाश of the रसूलों ss . फिलिप और जेम्स , may 1  , had faded from the memory of most Catholics by the mid-twentieth century , that of Joseph the Worker was created in order to coincide with the celebration of international Labour Day ( May Day ) in many countries .
The feast of Ss . Philip and James , which had been celebrated on  कि तिथि चूंकि the  sixth century , was moved from its traditional place .
In the new calendar published in 1969 , the feast , which at one time occupied the highest possible rank  in the गिरिजाघर पंचांग , थी घटाया  to an optional Memorial , the lowest rank for a saint 's day .
The Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates Saint Joseph on  the  Sunday after Christmas .
Mariah Carey ( born March 27 , 1970 ) is an American singer , songwriter ,  रिकार्ड निर्माता , अभिनेत्री , और लोकसेवक  .
Under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola , Carey released her self-titled debut studio album  mariah कैरी in 1990 ; it गई multi-platinum और शाखित चार लगातार क्रमांक एक singles on the u.s . बिलबोर्ड hot  100 chart .
Following her marriage to Mottola in  1993 और कामयाबी साथ hit रिकॉर्ड भाव (  1991 ) , Music Box ( 1993 ) , and Merry Christmas ( 1994 ) , Carey was established as Columbia 's highest-selling act .
Daydream ( 1995 ) made music  इतिहास जब इसके दूसरी सिंगल `` एक मीठी दिन `` , a duet साथ बॉयज ii मेन , खर्च a रिकार्ड  sixteen weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100 , and remains the longest-running number-one song in U.S. chart history .
During the recording of the album , Carey began to  deviate इससे उसके  R & B and pop beginnings and slowly traversed into hip hop .
This musical change became evident with the release of  तितली ( 1997 ) , at जिससे समय कैरी था अलग इससे  Mottola .
Carey left Columbia in 2000 ,  और हस्ताक्षरित a record-breaking $ 100 लाख  recording contract with Virgin Records .
Before the release of her first feature film Glitter ( 2001  ) , वो suffered a शारीरिक और emotional  breakdown and was hospitalized for severe exhaustion .
Following  the फिल्मी 's ग़रीब रिसेप्शन , वो थी खरीदा आउट of उसके  recording contract for $ 50 million , which led to a decline in her career .
She signed a multi-million dollar contract deal with Island Records in 2002 , and after  an unsuccessful  period , returned to the top of music charts with The Emancipation of Mimi ( 2005 ) .
Its second single `` We  belong साथ `` became  her most successful single of the 2000s , and was later named `` Song of the Decade '' by Billboard .
Carey once again ventured into film with a well-received starring role in ( 2009 ) ; she was awarded the `` Breakthrough Performance Award '' at  the ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय फिल्मी पर्व , और ब्लैक रील और  NAACP Image Award nominations .
In a career spanning over two decades , Carey has sold more  than 200 लाख रिकॉर्ड  worldwide , making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time .
In 1998 , she was honored as the  संसार 's best-selling रिकॉर्डिंग  artist of the 1990s at the World Music Awards .
Carey was also named the  best-selling  female artist of the millennium in 2000 .
According to the  रिकॉर्डिंग उद्योग संघ  of America , she is the third best-selling female artist in the United States , with 63.5 million certified albums .
With the release of `` Touch My Body `` ( 2008 ) , Carey gained her  eighteenth क्रमांक एक सिंगल in the  United States , more than any other solo artist .
In 2012 , Carey was ranked second on VH1 's list of the  ``  100 Greatest Women in Music '' .
Aside from her commercial accomplishments , Carey has won five Grammy Awards , 17 World Music  पुरस्कार , 11 अमरीकी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार  , and 31 Billboard Music Awards .
Referred to as the `` songbird supreme '' by the  गिनीज संसार रिकॉर्ड , वो is famed लिये उसके five-octave  vocal range , power , melismatic style and signature use of the whistle register .
A  bumblebee is कोई सदस्य of the  bee genus Bombus , in the family Apidae .
There are over 250 known species ,  मौजूदा primarily in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध  although they also occur in South America .
They have been  introduced to नई जीलैंड  and the Australian state of Tasmania .
Bumblebees are social insects that are  characterised by ब्लैक और पीला देह बालों  , often in bands .
However , some species have orange or red on their bodies , or  may be entirely  black .
Another obvious ( but not unique ) characteristic is the soft nature of the hair ( long , branched setae ) , called pile , that covers their  संपूर्ण देह , बनाना उन्हें appear  and feel fuzzy .
They are best distinguished from similarly large , fuzzy bees by the form of the female hind leg , which is modified to form a corbicula : a shiny concave surface that is bare , but surrounded by a fringe of hairs used to  हस्तांतरण पराग ( in समान मधुमक्खियों , the हिन्द लेग is completely बालदार , और पराग दाने  are wedged into the hairs for transport ) .
Like their relatives the honey bees ,  bumblebees फीड on मकरंद  and gather pollen to feed their young .
A man openly carrying a handgun in a Burger King  in त्रिभुज , कोलोराडो  .
In the United States , open carry is shorthand terminology for ``  खुलकर carrying a firearm in पब्लिक '' , as विशिष्ट  from concealed carry , where firearms can not be seen by the casual observer .
The practice of open carry , where  गन स्वामी खुलकर carry firearms  while they go about their daily business , has seen an increase in the U.S. in recent years .
This has been  चिह्नित by a क्रमांक of व्यवस्थित  events intended to increase the visibility of open carry and public awareness about the practice .
Proponents of open carry point to  इतिहास और आंकडे , noting कि  criminals usually conceal their weapons .
Encouraged  by समूह जैसे opencarry.org , georgiacarry.org और  some participants of the Free State Project , open carry has seen a revival in recent years , but it is not yet clear if this represents just a short-term trend .
The gun rights community  रै महरूम मिश्रित  in its response .
एलन gottlieb of the दूसरी amendment न्यास और the nra have महरूम cautious  in expressing support , while special-interest groups such as the aforementioned OpenCarry.org and GeorgiaCarry.org , and certain national groups such as the Gun Owners of America ( GOA ) have been more outspoken in favor of the practice .
Open carry is strongly opposed by gun control  समूह ऐसे as the ब्रैडी अभियान और the गठबन्धन  to Stop Gun Violence .
The Cattenom  नाभिकीय शक्ति  Plant in France .
France produces around three  quarters of इसके  electricity by nuclear power .
The Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant in  जर्मनी  .
Chancellor Angela Merkel 's coalition announced  on may 30 , 2011 , कि germany’s 17 नाभिकीय शक्ति स्टेशन होगा be shut  down by 2022 , in a policy reversal following Japan 's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster .
Currently , 68 reactors are under  निर्माण in 15 देशों  .
Nuclear power stations operate in thirty  देशों  .
In 2010 , before the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster , it was reported that an average of about 10 nuclear reactors were expected to become operational per year , although according to the World Nuclear Association , of the 17 civilian reactors planned to  become operational between 2007 और 2009 , तभी पाँच दरअसल आए  on stream .
As of June 2011 , Germany  और स्विट्ज़रलैंड हैं  phasing-out nuclear power .
As of June 2011 , countries such as Australia , Austria , Denmark , Greece , Ireland , Italy ,  लातवियाई , liechtenstein , ध्वज  , Malaysia , Malta , New Zealand , Norway and Portugal remain opposed to nuclear power .
Color motion picture film refers both to unexposed color photographic film in a  स्वरूप उपयुक्त लिये उपयोग in a गति चित्र कैमरा , और  to finished motion picture film , ready for use in a projector , which bears images in color .
The first color cinematography  थी by अर्थात् of योगात्मक रंग प्रणालियों  such as the one patented in England by Edward Raymond Turner in 1899 and tested in 1902 .
A simplified additive system was developed by George Albert Smith  और सफलतापूर्वक commercialized  in 1909 as Kinemacolor .
These early systems used black-and-white film to photograph and project  दो or अधिक घटक बिंब through अलग रंग  filters .
Still from  फुटेज अंकित  by Edward Turner in 1902
With the present-day technology , there are two distinct processes : Eastman Color Negative 2 chemistry ( camera negative stocks , duplicating interpositive and internegative stocks ) and Eastman Color Positive 2 chemistry ( positive  prints लिये सीधा प्रक्षेप ) , प्रायः abbreviated as  ECN-2 and ECP-2 .
Fuji 's products are  संगत साथ ecn-2  and ECP-2 .
Ashanti Shequoiya Douglas ( born October 13 , 1980 ) is an American singer-songwriter ,  रिकार्ड निर्माता , और अभिनेत्री  .
Ashanti is most famous for her eponymous debut album ,  जिससे प्रदर्शित the hit सोंग `` foolish `` , और बेची over 503,000  copies in its first week of release throughout the U.S. in April 2002 .
The album set a Soundscan  रिकार्ड as the biggest खोलने सप्ताह बिक्री  for a new female artist , outselling debuts by Alicia Keys and Lauryn Hill .
In the same week , she became the first female performer to simultaneously hold the top two places on  the  Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with `` Foolish '' , and `` What 's Luv ? ``
( with  मोटे जो ) .
Ashanti broke records again by having three top ten songs , `` Foolish , '' `` What 's Luv ? '' and `` Always on Time `` , on the Billboard Hot 100 charts in the same week ,  होने the पहला स्त्री to accomplish इस feat और  being second only to the Beatles .
In 2003 , the self-titled debut album won Ashanti her first Grammy Award for Best  समकालीन r & b एल्बम  .
As of April 1st 2013 , Ashanti has sold over 27.7 million  रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी  .
Ashanti ended the decade ( 2000–09 ) as the  तीसरा शीर्ष नई r & b कलाकार पीछे  Alicia Keys and Beyoncé .
She also ended the decade at number 38 on the Top  कलाकार of the दशक  list .
She is currently on the list of The Twenty Best Selling  म्यूज़िक singles चूंकि 1990 लिये उसके सिंगल  Foolish for selling 7.2 million copies to-date .
ashanti रै an अनुमानित  net worth of $ 40 million dollars [ USD ] .
Ashanti wrote and sang background on Jennifer Lopez 's `` Ai n't It Funny ( Murder Remix ) `` , which reached number one on  बिलबोर्ड hot 100 , जिससे थी भी in the शीर्ष 10 चार्ट  at the same time as `` Foolish '' , `` Always on Time '' ( with Ja Rule ) , and `` What 's Luv '' ( with Fat Joe ) .
Later that year , she was acclaimed as the ``  राजकुमारी of hip-hop & r & b '' by उसके लेबल और  capped off her successful debut by winning eight Billboard awards and two American Music Awards .
Within seven years of Ashanti 's career , she has  scored 16 शीर्ष 40 हिट्स on the hot  100 .
Ashanti  रै endorsed numerous  products including Gap , Herbal Essences and Mudd Jeans .
Ashanti cites Whitney Houston , Janet Jackson , Prince , Madonna , Tupac Shakur , Mary J. Blige , Ella Fitzgerald , Smokey Robinson , Donna Summer  , और ब्लू जादू as उसके musical  influences .
Praised as a gifted songwriter by her peers and critics alike  , ashanti रै written/co-written  the bulk of all her music .
She is currently working on her own  प्रकाशन कम्पनी  entitled Written Entertainment .
She released her fourth studio album entitled  the घोषणा on जून 3 , 2008 और is  currently in the studio working on her fifth .
She also  performed the दान धुन `` बस  Stand Up `` alongside 15 other female singers for the `` Stand Up to Cancer '' live television special which helped raise $ 100 million dollars for cancer research .
The United States Army Air Forces ( USAAF or AAF ) was the military aviation arm of the United States of America during and immediately after World War II , and the  सीधा पूर्ववर्ती of the संयुक्त राज्य एयर  Force .
The AAF was a component of the United States Army , which in 1942 was divided functionally by executive order into three autonomous forces : the Army Ground Forces , the Services  of सप्लाई ( जिससे in 1943 became the फौज सेवा शक्तियां  ) , and the AAF .
Each of these forces had a commanding general  जो reported सीधे to  the Chief of Staff of the United States Army .
The AAF administered all parts of  सैन्य विमानन formerly वितरित among the फौज एयर corps , सामान्य मुख्यालय  Air Force , and ground forces corps area commanders , and thus became the first air organization of the U.S. Army to control its own installations and support personnel .
In practice , the AAF was  वस्तुतः autonomous अंदर  the Army .
The  शिखर आकार of the aaf थी over  2.4 million men and women in service and nearly 80,000 aircraft in 1944 , and 783 domestic bases in December 1943 .
By VE Day it had 1.25  लाख मेन stationed विदेशी  and operated from more than 1,600 airfields worldwide .
The Air Corps became the Army Air Forces in June 1941 to provide the air arm a greater autonomy in which to expand more efficiently , and to provide a  ढांचा लिये the अतिरिक्त कमांड echelons जरूरी  by a vastly increased force .
Although other nations already had separate air forces independent of the army or navy ( such as the British Royal  एयर फ़ोर्स और the जर्मनी luftwaffe ) , the aaf remained a भाग of the संयुक्त राज्य फौज जबतक the संयुक्त राज्य एयर  Force came into being in September 1947 .
However , in its expansion and conduct of the war  , the aaf became अधिक than बस an भुजा  of the greater organization .
By the end of World War II the AAF had  become वस्तुतः an स्वतंत्र  service .
By regulation and  कार्यपालिका अनुक्रम , the aaf थी a अधीनस्थ एजेंसी  of the War Department tasked only with organizing , training , and equipping combat units , limited in responsibility to the continental United States , as were the Army Ground Forces and the Army Service Forces .
In reality , Headquarters AAF controlled the conduct of all aspects of the air  युद्ध in प्रत्येक भाग of the संसार  , determining air policy and issuing orders without transmitting them through the Chief of Staff .
This `` contrast between theory and fact is ...  आधारभूत to an समझना  of the AAF . ''
The Freedom of Information Act ( FOIA ) is a federal freedom of  सूचना विधि कि allows लिये the पूरा or आंशिक प्रकटीकरण of previously unreleased सूचना और दस्तावेज़ नियंत्रित  by the United States government .
The Act defines agency records subject to disclosure , outlines mandatory disclosure procedures and  अनुदान नौ छूटों to the statute  .
It was originally signed into law by  अध्यक्ष lyndon B. जॉनसन , despite उसके misgivings  , on July 4 , 1966 as and went into effect the following year .
The Federal Government 's Freedom of Information Act  चाहिए नहीं be उलझन  with the different and varying Freedom of Information Acts passed by the individual states .
Many of those state acts  may be समान लकिन नहीं एकसमान  to the federal act .
The European Union ( EU ) is an economic and political union of 27 member states that  हैं स्तिथ primarily in यूरोपीय  .
The EU operates through a system of supranational independent institutions  और intergovernmental negotiated  decisions by the member states .
Institutions of the EU include the European Commission , the Council of the European Union , the European Council , the Court of Justice  of the यूरोपीय संघ , the यूरोपीय सेंट्रल  Bank , the Court of Auditors , and the European Parliament .
The European  पार्लियामेंट is निर्वाचित प्रत्येक  five years by EU citizens .
The EU 's  de facto पूंजी  is Brussels .
The EU traces its  origins इससे the यूरोपीय कोयले और स्टील  Community ( ECSC ) and the European Economic Community ( EEC ) , formed by the Inner Six countries in 1951 and 1958 respectively .
In the  intervening सालो the जातियाँ और इसके successors have grown in आकार  by the accession of new member states and in power by the addition of policy areas to its remit .
The Maastricht Treaty established the European Union under its  वर्तमान  name in 1993 .
The latest major amendment to the constitutional basis of the EU ,  the सन्धि of  Lisbon , came into force in 2009 .
The EU has developed a single market  through a standardised प्रणाली of कानून कि  apply in all member states .
Within the Schengen Area ( which  शामिल 22 eu और 4  non-EU states ) passport controls have been abolished .
EU policies aim to ensure the free movement of people , goods , services , and capital , enact legislation in justice and home affairs , and maintain  आम नीतियों on व्यापार , कृषि ,  fisheries and regional development .
A monetary union , the eurozone , was  स्थापित in 1999 और is रचित  of 17 member states .
Through the Common  विदेशी और सुरक्षा नीति the eu  has developed a role in external relations and defence .
Permanent  राजनयिक मिशन  have been established around the world .
The EU is represented at the United Nations , the WTO ,  the g8 और the g-20  .
With a combined population of over 500 million inhabitants , or 7.3 % of the world population , the EU , in 2012 , generated a nominal gross domestic product  ( जीडीपी ) of 16.584 खरब us डॉलर , representing लगभग  20 % of the global GDP when measured in terms of purchasing power parity , and represents the largest nominal GDP and GDP PPP in the world .
The EU was the recipient of  the 2012 नोबेल सलाम  Prize .
The Wales national rugby league team  represent वेल्स in अंतरराष्ट्रीय  rugby league football matches .
Currently the team is  सातवाँ in the rlif संसार  Rankings .
The team were run under the auspices of the Rugby Football League , but  an स्वतंत्र देह  , Wales Rugby League , now runs the team from Cardiff .
A  कुल of तीन वेल्श खिलाड़ी have  been entered into the Rugby League Hall Of Fame .
Similar to many other Welsh national sporting teams ,  वेल्स स्ट्रिप रै महरूम primarily  red for many years , including now .
However in their last World Cup campaign  in 2000 वे किया पहनें a  shirt featuring the Welsh flag , adding a touch of green and white .
The team is known as  `` the ड्रेगन '' और so the  teams logo on the shirt is a red dragon .
The team date back to 1907 , making them the third  oldest नेशनल पक्ष बाद  England and New Zealand .
And it was a touring New Zealand  पक्ष कि वेल्स पहला निभाई विरूद्ध  in 1908 , winning 9-8 at Aberdare .
Since  तब वेल्स have regularly निभाई इंग्लैण्ड , चूंकि 1935 फ़्रांस , as खूब as सत्कार  the touring Australia and New Zealand teams , although they rarely toured themselves , not playing a match in the Southern Hemisphere until 1975 .
For twenty-six years Wales competed against their two biggest rivals , England and France  , in the यूरोपीय राष्ट्र कप , जीतना the  trophy four times .
Wales  have भी competed in the  World Cup on three occasions , the first time being in 1975 .
In 1995 and 2000 they had their most successful tournaments to date , surprisingly making the Semi-Finals on  दोनो अवसरों पहले होने पिटे by इंग्लैण्ड और ऑस्ट्रेलिया क्रमशः  .
Wales failed to qualify for the 2008 World Cup , being the second highest ranked side not to do so , having lost to Scotland on points difference  over दो मिलान  .
In 2008 Australian John Dixon became the new head coach and appointed Lee  briers as कप्तान ,  having played for Wales since 1998 .
In recent seasons Wales have taken massive strides under former player Iestyn Harris who has coached Wales to back to  वापस यूरोपीय कप सफलताओं  , which culminated in a Four Nations appearance in 2011 .
cardiomyopathy ( वस्तुतः `` दिल  muscle disease '' ) is the measurable deterioration of the function of the myocardium ( the heart muscle ) for any reason , usually leading to heart failure ; common symptoms are dyspnea ( breathlessness ) and peripheral edema ( swelling of the legs ) .
People with  cardiomyopathy हैं प्रायः at  risk of dangerous forms of irregular heart beat and sudden cardiac death .
The most common  रूप of cardiomyopathy is  dilated cardiomyopathy .
Fuck in  इसके शाब्दिक अर्थ refers to the  act of sexual intercourse .
It is an  अंग्रेज़ी शब्द कि is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as  a profanity , either to denote disdain or as an intensifier .
The  उत्पत्ति  of the word is obscure .
It is usually considered to be first attested to around 1475 ,  लकिन  it may be considerably older .
In modern usage , fuck and its derivatives ( such as fucker and fucking  ) can be प्रयुक्त in the स्थिति  of a noun , a verb , an adjective or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the  शब्द , as खूब as a क्रमांक of यौगिकों  incorporating it , such as motherfucker .
Note  : इस आलेख adopts the u.S. विभाग of परिवहन  's definition of a passenger vehicle , to mean a car or truck , used for passengers , excluding buses and trains .
The United States is home to the  largest  passenger vehicle market of any country in the world .
Overall , there were an estimated 254.4 million registered  यात्री वाहनों in the  United States according to a 2007 DOT study .
This number , along with the average age of vehicles , has increased steadily  चूंकि 1960 , indicating a growing क्रमांक  of vehicles per capita .
The Chinese car market , however , is poised to soon exceed the United States ; by the end of 2012 , there were  over 240 लाख गाड़ियाँ on the सड़क in चीन  .
The United  राज्य is भी घर to तीन विशाल गाडी निर्माताओं  : General Motors , Ford Motor Company and Chrysler , which have historically been referred to as the `` Big Three . ''
Chrysler however is no  longer among the शीर्ष  three ; but is number five , behind Toyota and Honda .
The  मोटर car रै clearly become  an integral part of American life , with vehicles outnumbering licensed drivers .
नैदानिक प्रयोगशाला in a हॉस्पिटल  setting showing several automated analysers .
A medical laboratory or clinical laboratory is a laboratory where tests are done on clinical specimens in order to get information about the health of a patient as  pertaining to the निदान  , treatment , and prevention of disease .
In poker , players construct hands of five cards  according to predetermined नियम , जिससे vary according  to which variant of poker is being played .
These hands are compared using a hand ranking system that is standard across all variants of poker , the player with the highest-ranking  हाथ जीतना कि particular सौदे in सबसे विसंगतियाँ  of poker .
In some variants , the lowest-ranking  हाथ can जीत or टाई .
These hand  rankings हैं भी प्रयुक्त in कुछ  other card games , and in poker dice .
The ranking of a particular hand is  increased by सहित अनेक ताश of the  same card rank , by all five cards being from the same suit , or by all five cards being of consecutive rank .
The relative ranking of the  विभिन्न हाथ श्रेणी  is based on the probability of being randomly dealt such a hand from a well- shuffled deck .
Bruce Randall Hornsby ( born November 23 , 1954 ) is an American virtuoso ; a singer , pianist , synthesizer , accordion , and  dulcimer खिलाड़ी , और songwriter  .
Known for the spontaneity and creativity of his live performances , Hornsby draws frequently from classical , jazz , bluegrass , folk , Motown ,  इन्जील , चट्टान , ब्लूज़ , और jam बैंड musical परंपराओं साथ उसके songwriting और the seamless improvisations  contained within .
hornsby 's रिकार्डिंग have महरूम recognised  on a number of occasions with industry awards , including the Best New Artist Grammy in 1987 with Bruce Hornsby and the Range , the Best Bluegrass Recording Grammy in 1990 , and the Best Pop Instrumental Grammy in 1993 .
Hornsby has also  हासिल मान्यता लिये उसके सोलो एल्बम  and performances , his touring band Bruce Hornsby and the Noisemakers , his bluegrass project with Ricky Skaggs and his appearances as a session- and guest-musician .
He also collaborated with Grateful  मुर्दे और थी a सदस्य of the बैंड इससे सितंबर  1990 to March 1992 , playing at over one hundred shows during that period .
Sugarcane  वृक्षारोपण  in rural Cuba
Agriculture in  क्यूबा रै निभाई  an important part in the economy for several hundred years .
Agriculture contributes less than 10 percent to the gross domestic product ( GDP ) , but it employs  roughly 20 प्रतिशत  of the working population .
परिचय 30 प्रतिशत  of the country 's land is used for crop cultivation .
The inefficient  agricultural  industry in Cuba has led to the need to import large amounts of foods .
Cuba now imports about 80 % of the food  it rations to the पब्लिक  .
The rationing program accounts for about a third of the food energy the  औसत क्यूबन  consumes .
Overall , however ,  क्यूबा is निर्भर  on imports for only 16 % of its food .
सही
Mega Millions ( initially called  the बिग खेल आचमन लाखो as  the successor of The Big Game ) is an American multi-jurisdictional $ 1 lottery game .
The first (  the बिग खेल ) आचमन  Millions drawing was in 2002 ( see below ) .
The minimum Mega Millions advertised jackpot is $ 12,000,000 , paid in 26 equal yearly installments ( unless the cash  विकल्प is चुनी ) ; प्रायः , the जैकपॉट increases जब  there is no top-prize winner .
However , despite no jackpot winner for  the $ 12,000,000 दिसम्बर 18 ,  2012 drawing , the jackpot remained at $ 12,000,000 for the drawing to be held on December 21 .
( See below for  सूचना on कैसा the  game 's jackpot is funded . )
Reflecting common practice among American lotteries  , the जैकपॉट is advertised as a नाममात्र मान  of annual installments .
A cash value option ( the usual choice  ) , जब चुनी by a जैकपॉट  winner ( see below ) , pays the approximate present value of the installments .
Mega  लाखो फिलहाल उपयोग a 5/56 ( श्वेत  balls ) plus 1/46 ( the Mega Ball ) double matrix to select its winning numbers .
Each  खेल लागत $  1 .
In 43 of the 44 Mega Millions jurisdictions ( California is  the एक्सेप्शन ) , वहीँ is an विकल्प , पुकारा megaplier  ( such games are $ 2 each ) where non-jackpot prizes are multiplied by 2 , 3 , or 4 .
The Megaplier was made  उपलब्धियाँ to सब आचमन लाखो  jurisdictions in January 2011 ; it began as a Texas -only option .
Mega  लाखो is  drawn at 10:59 p.m. Eastern time Tuesdays and Fridays , including holidays .
Mega Millions is administered by a consortium of its 12 original  lotteries और the drawings हैं आयोजित at wsb-tv in अटलांटा  , Georgia .
पर्यवेक्षित  by the Georgia Lottery .
The largest jackpot in Mega Millions , as well as in American lottery history , was $ 656,000,000 annuitized ( with a cash option of $ 474,000,000  ) लिये the कूच 30 , 2012 आरेखण in जिससे वहीँ यहूद तीन jackpot-winning  tickets ; one each in Illinois , Kansas , and Maryland .
All three tickets had been  claimed as of अप्रैल 18 ,  with each set of winners choosing the cash option .
is a Japanese manga series  निर्मित by  writer Tsugumi Ohba and manga artist Takeshi Obata .
The main character is  लाइट yagami , a ऊँची स्कूल छात्र  who discovers a supernatural notebook , the `` Death Note '' , dropped on Earth by a shinigami ( a god of death ) named Ryuk .
The Death Note grants its user the ability to kill anyone whose name and  फेस वे जान , by लिखने the नाम in the कोपी  while picturing their face .
the श्रेणी centers around लाइट 's attempt to बनाएँ और नियम a संसार `` cleansed of दुष्ट '' as `` परमेश्वर '' using the कोपी , और the प्रयत्न of a जासूस ज्ञात as l  to stop him .
Death Note was first serialized in 108 chapters  by shueisha in the जापानी manga  magazine Weekly Shōnen Jump from December 2003 to May 2006 .
The series was also published in tankōbon format in Japan starting in May 2004 and ending in October 2006 with a total of   thirteen volumes .
the दुश्मनी श्रेणी aired  in Japan from October 3 , 2006 , to June 26 , 2007 .
Composed of 37 episodes , the anime was  विकसित by madhouse और निर्देशित  by Tetsuro Araki .
A light novel based on the series ,  लिखा by nisio isin , थी  released in Japan .
Additionally , various video games have been published  by कोनामी लिये निन्टेंडो  DS .
The series was adapted into live-action films  released in जापानी on जून 17 ,  2006 , November 3 , 2006 , and February 2 , 2008 .
Viz Media licensed the  मौत नोट manga in उत्तर अमेरिका  and has published all the twelve volumes from the series , a 13th volume which serves as a `` reader 's guide '' , as well as the light novels .
The episodes from the anime first  appeared in उत्तर  America as downloadable by IGN .
Viz later licensed  the दुश्मनी श्रेणी और it  aired on Bionix in Canada and on Cartoon Network in the United States .
The live-action films briefly played in  निश्चित उत्तर अमरीकी थिएटर  since 2008 .
However , none of the video  खेल have यूँ दूर महरूम प्रकाशित  in North America or Europe .
मौत नोट is एक of साप्ताहिक shōnen  Jumps best-selling manga series of all time , with sales over 26.5 million copies .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ) , also known as All Hallows ' Eve , is a yearly celebration observed  in a क्रमांक of देशों on अक्तूबर 31 , the संध्या of the पश्चिमी ईसाई feast  of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised feast originally  बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय कटाई त्यौहार  , and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
Other scholars maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and  रै solely ईसाई  roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties ,  नक्काशी pumpkins into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires , ठहराना bobbing , visiting haunted  attractions , playing pranks , telling scary stories , and watching horror films .
New York City taxicabs  दौरान  Midtown rush hour in Manhattan
The taxicabs of New York City , with their distinctive yellow paint , are a  widely पहचाना प्रतीक of the  city .
Taxicabs  हैं संचालित by निजी  companies and licensed by the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission ( TLC ) .
It also oversees over 40,000 other for-hire vehicles , including `` black  गाड़ियाँ '' , commuter वैन और ambulettes  .
`` Medallion taxis , '' the familiar yellow cabs , are the only  वाहनों in the नगर permitted  to pick up passengers in response to a street hail .
Schematic cross section of  भाग of पत्ता , जाइलम दिखाया as  red circles at figure 8 .
Xylem  is एक of the दो  types of transport tissue in vascular plants ( phloem is the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the Greek word ξύλον ( xylon ) ,  अर्थ `` लकडी '' ; the best-known जाइलम ऊतक  is wood , though it is found throughout the plant .
Its basic function  is to हस्तांतरण जल , लकिन it भी  transports some nutrients through the plant .
U.S. women  suffragists demonstrating  for the right to vote , February 1913 .
Women 's suffrage  भी ज्ञात as स्त्री suffrage  is the right of women to vote and to run for office .
Limited voting rights were gained by women in Sweden , Finland  और कुछ पश्चिमी u.S. राज्य in the  late 19th century .
International organizations were formed to coordinate  प्रयत्न , विशेषकर the अंतरराष्ट्रीय परिषद of महिलाओं ( 1888 ) और the  International Woman Suffrage Alliance ( 1904 ) .
In 1893 , New Zealand , then a self-governing  अंग्रेजों उपनिवेश , granted वयस्क महिलाओं the सही to vote और the self-governing  British colony of South Australia did the same in 1895 , but also permitted women to run for office .
Australia federated in 1901 , and women acquired the right to vote and stand in federal elections from 1902 , though uneven restrictions on Aboriginal women voting in  नेशनल चुनावों यहूद नहीं completely removed जबतक  1962 .
The first European country to introduce women 's suffrage was the Grand Duchy of Finland , then part of the Russian Empire , which  भी उत्पादित the संसार 's पहला मादा सदस्यों  of parliament in the 1907 parliamentary elections .
Norway followed , granting full  महिलाओं 's suffrage  in 1913 .
In most Western countries , women 's suffrage came after World I War I I , with some important late adopters  होने फ़्रांस in 1944 और स्विट्ज़रलैंड in 1971  .
Women 's suffrage has generally been recognized after  राजनैतिक अभियान to obtain it  were waged .
In many  देशों it थी granted  before universal suffrage .
Women 's suffrage is explicitly stated as a right under the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of  पक्षपात विरूद्ध महिलाओं , अपनाया by the संयुक्त  Nations in 1979 .
The Thirteenth Tale ( 2006 ) by Diane Setterfield is a  गोथिक  suspense novel , the author 's first published book .
Jehovah 's  गवाह is a millenarian restorationist ईसाई denomination साथ nontrinitarian मान्यताओं पृथक इससे  mainstream Christianity .Sources for descriptors : • Millenarian : • Restorationist : • Christian : • Denomination : The organization reports worldwide membership of over 7.78 million adherents involved in evangelism , convention attendance of over 12 million , and annual Memorial attendance of over 19 million .
They are directed by the Governing Body of  यहोवा 's गवाह  , a group of elders in Brooklyn , New York , that establishes all doctrines .
Jehovah 's Witnesses ' beliefs are based on their interpretations of the Bible  और वे prefer to उपयोग उनके अपना अनुवाद  , the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures .
They believe that the destruction of the present world system at Armageddon is  निकट , और कि the स्थापना of परमेश्वर 's किंगडम  on earth is the only solution for all problems faced by mankind .
The group emerged from the Bible Student movement —founded in the late 1870s by Charles Taze Russell with the formation of Zion 's Watch Tower Tract Society  —with significant organizational और doctrinal परिवर्तन अंतर्गत the नेतृत्व of जोसेफ फ्रैंकलिन  Rutherford .
The name Jehovah 's witnesses , based on Isaiah 43:10–12 , was adopted in 1931 to distinguish themselves from other Bible  छात्र समूह और symbolize a ब्रेक साथ the विरासत of रसेल  's traditions .
Jehovah 's Witnesses are best known for their  door-to-door उपदेश  , distributing literature such as The Watchtower and Awake !
, and refusing military service and blood  transfusions  .
वे consider उपयोग of the  name Jehovah vital for proper worship .
They reject Trinitarianism , inherent immortality of the soul , and  hellfire , जिससे वे consider to be unscriptural doctrines  .
They do not observe Christmas , Easter , birthdays  , or अन्य छुट्टियाँ  and customs they consider to have pagan origins incompatible with Christianity .
Adherents  commonly refer to उनके देह  of beliefs as `` the truth '' and consider themselves to be `` in the truth '' .
They  consider धर्मनिरपेक्ष समाज  to be morally corrupt and under the influence of Satan , and most limit their social interaction with non-Witnesses .
Congregational disciplinary actions  शामिल disfellowshipping , उनके  term for formal expulsion and shunning .
Baptized individuals who  formally छोड़ हैं माना disassociated  and are also shunned .
Disfellowshipped and  disassociated individuals may आखिरकार  be reinstated if deemed repentant .
The religion 's position regarding conscientious objection to military  सेवा और refusal to सलाम नेशनल ध्वज रै brought it into विरोध  with some governments .
Consequently , Jehovah 's Witnesses have been  persecuted और उनके क्रियाएँ हैं बैन  or restricted in some countries .
Persistent legal challenges by Jehovah 's  गवाह have बहकावे  legislation related to civil rights in several countries .
Last Tango in Paris ( ) is a 1972  franco-italian रोमांटिक नाटक फिल्मी निर्देशित by बर्नार्डो bertolucci जिससे  portrays a recent American widower who begins an anonymous sexual relationship with a young , betrothed Parisian woman .
It stars Marlon  ब्रैंडो , मरिया श्नाइडर  , and Jean-Pierre Léaud .
The film 's raw portrayal of sexual violence and  emotional turmoil  led to international controversy and drew various levels of government censorship .
The MPAA gave the film an X rating upon  रिलीज in the संयुक्त  States .
After revisions were made to the MPAA ratings code  , it थी वर्गीकृत as an  NC-17 in 1997 .
MGM released a  censored r-rated  cut in 1981 .
The film has its  nc-17 दरजा  for `` some explicit sexual content . ''
Windows XP is  an ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली उत्पादित by microsoft लिये  use on personal computers , including home and business desktops , laptops and media centers .
First released to computer manufacturers on August 24  , 2001 , it is the दूसरी सबसे लोकप्रिय  version of Windows , based on installed user base .
The name `` XP '' is short for `` eXPerience '' ,  highlighting the उन्नत उपयोक्ता अनुभव  .
Windows XP , the successor to Windows 2000 and Windows ME  , थी the पहला consumer-oriented  operating system produced by Microsoft to be built on the Windows NT kernel .
Windows XP was released worldwide for retail sale  on अक्तूबर 25 , 2001 , और over  400 million copies were in use in January 2006 .
It was succeeded by  खिड़कियाँ विस्टा in  January 2007 .
Direct OEM and retail sales of  खिड़कियाँ  XP ceased on June 30 , 2008 .
Microsoft continued to sell Windows XP through their System Builders ( smaller  oems जो बेचें समवेत कंप्यूटर ) कार्यक्रम  until January 31 , 2009 .
On April 10 , 2012 , Microsoft reaffirmed that extended support for Windows XP and Office 2003 would end on April 8 , 2014 and suggested  कि प्रशासकों शुरू तैयारी to migrate to a नए os  .
The NT -based versions of Windows , which are programmed in C , C++ , and assembly , are known for their improved stability and efficiency  over the 9x संस्करण of microsoft खिड़कियाँ  .
Windows XP presented a significantly redesigned graphical user interface , a change Microsoft promoted as more  user-friendly than पिछला संस्करण  of Windows .
In an attempt to further ameliorate the `` DLL hell `` that plagued the  पास्ट संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ , improved side-by-side सभा प्रौद्योगिकी in खिड़कियाँ xp allows  side-by-side installation , registration and servicing of multiple versions of globally shared software components in full isolation .
It is also the first version of Windows to use  उत्पाद सक्रियण  to combat illegal copying .
During Windows XP 's development , the project was codenamed `` Whistler '' , after Whistler  , अंग्रेजों कोलंबिया  , as many Microsoft employees skied at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski resort .
According to web analytics data generated by Net Applications ,  खिड़कियाँ xp थी the सबसे widely प्रयुक्त ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली  until August 2012 , when Windows 7 overtook it .
, Windows XP market share is at 38.99 % , having decreased almost every month since at least November 2007 , the  पहला माह लिये जिससे आंकडे हैं सरेआम उपलब्धियाँ इससे जाल अनुप्रयोग  .
`` Por  ऊना cabeza  '' is an Argentine tango with music and lyrics written in 1935 by Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera respectively .
The name is a Spanish horse-racing  phrase अर्थ `` by a सिर '' , जिससे refers  to a horse winning a race by the length of one head .
The lyrics speak of a compulsive horse-track  जुआरी जो compares उसके व्यसन  for horses with his attraction to women .
Alfredo Le Pera was a  ब्राज़ीलियाई इससे são पाउलो , a much italian-influenced क्षेत्रफल in ब्राज़ील  , and also the birthplace of Zequinha de Abreu , composer of Tico-Tico no Fubá .
Le Pera and Gardel died in an airplane crash in  medellín , ( कोलंबिया ) , on जून  24 , 1935 .
पोर  una Cabeza
The tango has since been  performed by numerous  tango orchestras .
Tango scenes with `` Por una Cabeza '' appear in Delicatessen ( 1991 ) , Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) , Schindler 's List ( 1993 ) , True Lies ( 1994 ) , Titanic ( 1996 ) , Bad Santa ( Uncut Version , 2003 ) , All the King 's Men ( 2006 ) ,  ग्रह 51 ( 2009 ) , एपीसोड 37 of nip/tuck ( 2003–2010 ) , एपीसोड 9 of दक्षिण कोरियाई नाटक  series Sweet Spy ( 2005–08 ) , the beginning and ending credits of the South Korean drama broadcast I 'm Sorry , I Love You ( 2004 ) , and the episode `` Down the Rabbit Hole `` ( 2007 ) .
In the  फिल्म frida ( सलमा  Hayek , 2002 ) , Gardel is heard singing it on a radio .
it is भी कोटेड  in David Del Tredici 's `` Good News !
Nilda is Back '' (  इससे the सोंग साईकिल  Miz Inez Sez ) .
In Scent of a Woman ( 1992 ) , the tango is performed by the ``  the टैंगो प्रोजेक्ट '' , जो दरअसल appear  in the dancing scene starring Al Pacino ( the recording used is available on one of their CD albums ) .
John Williams arranged a version of the piece that appears on the album ``  सिनेमा serenade '' साथ the सारंगी सोलो  performed by Itzhak Perlman .
Perlman and  विलियम्स ( conducting  ) have also performed the piece together in live concerts .
In 2012 a dance version was released by the group `` Da  करेरा '' featuring  the original vocal recording by Carlos Gardel .
The  baroreflex or baroreceptor  reflex is one of the body 's homeostatic mechanisms for maintaining blood pressure .
It provides a negative  प्रतिक्रिया लूप in जिससे an elevated रक्त दबाव reflexively  causes heart rate to decrease therefore causing blood pressure to decrease ; likewise , decreased blood pressure activates the baroreflex , causing heart rate to increase thus causing an increase in blood pressure .
The system relies  on specialized न्यूरॉन्स , ज्ञात as baroreceptors , in the aortic मेहराब , carotid साइनस  , and elsewhere to monitor changes in blood pressure and relay them to the brainstem .
Subsequent changes in blood pressure are mediated by  the autonomic बेचैन  system .
Atrial natriuretic  पेप्टाइड फ़ॉर्म a समानांतर ऋणात्मक प्रतिक्रिया  loop in an endocrinological contrast to the renin-angiotensin system .
The Loma Prieta earthquake , also known as the Quake of '89 and the  संसार श्रेणी भूकंप , थी a प्रमुख भूकंप कि struck the सैन फ्रांसिस्को  Bay Area of California on October 17 , 1989 , at 5:04 pm local time .
Caused by a slip along the San Andreas Fault , the quake lasted 10–15 seconds and measured 6.9  on दोनो the पल परिमाण स्केल ( surface-wave  magnitude 7.1 ) and on the open-ended Richter Scale .
The quake killed 63 people throughout northern California ,  घायल 3,757 और बाएँ कुछ 3,000–12,000 लोगों  homeless .
The earthquake occurred during the warm-up practice for the third game of the 1989 World Series , featuring both of the  खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल 's  Major League Baseball teams , the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants .
Because of game-related sports coverage , this was the first major earthquake in the United States to have  इसके आरंभिक धक्का ब्रॉडकास्ट सजीव on  television .
Pawn in the standard  staunton पैटर्न
The pawn ( ♙♟ ) is the most numerous and in most circumstances the weakest piece in the game of chess ,  historically representing infantry or , अधिक विशेषकर  , armed peasants or pikemen .
In chess , each  खिलाड़ी begins the खेल साथ आठ प्यादे , एक on  each square of the rank immediately in front of the other pieces .
( In algebraic notation , the white pawns start on a2 , b2 , c2 , ... , h2 , while  ब्लैक प्यादे प्रारंभ on a7 , b7 , c7 , ... , h7 .  )
Individual pawns are  referred to by the  file on which they stand .
For example , one speaks of `` White 's f-pawn '' or `` Black 's b-pawn '' , or less commonly ( using descriptive notation ) ,  `` श्वेत 's किंग 's बिशप  pawn '' or `` Black 's queen 's knight pawn '' .
It is also common to refer to  a rook साहूकार , अर्थ कोई साहूकार on the a- or h-file  , a knight pawn ( on the b- or g-file ) , a bishop pawn ( on the c- or f-file ) , a queen pawn ( on the d-file ) , a king pawn ( on the e-file ) , and a central pawn ( on either the d- or e-file ) .
The military forces of the world have differing approaches to the enlistment of homosexual ( gay and lesbian )  और द्विलिंगी individuals  .
the हथियारबंद शक्तियां of सबसे विकसित देशों  have now removed policies excluding non-heterosexual individuals ( with strict policies on sexual harassment ) .
Nations that permit gay people to serve openly in the military include the 4 of the 5 members of the UN Security  परिषद ( संयुक्त राज्य , संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस , और रूस  ) , the Republic of China ( Taiwan ) , Australia , Israel , South Africa , Argentina , and all NATO members excluding Turkey .
Hydrogen production is the  परिवार of औद्योगिक विधि लिये  generating hydrogen .
फिलहाल the प्रबल प्रौद्योगिकी  for direct production is steam reforming from hydrocarbons .
Many other methods are known  सहित electrolysis  and thermolysis .
In 2006 , the United States was  अनुमानित to have a उत्पादन क्षमता of 11 लाख  tonnes of hydrogen .
5 million tonnes of hydrogen  यहूद खपत on-site in आयल  refining , and in the production of ammonia ( Haber process ) and methanol ( reduction of carbon monoxide ) .
0.4 million  टन यहूद an incidental  by-product of the chlor-alkali process .
Hydrogen production  is an अनुमानित  $ 100 billion industry .
A basis point ( often denoted as bp , colloquially referred to in the plural as `` bips '' , also known as a  `` बीप '' ) is a ईकाई बराबर to एक hundredth of a प्रतिशत  point , or one part per ten thousand , 1/10000 .
The same unit is also ( rarely ) called a permyriad , literally meaning 'for ( every ) myriad ( ten thousand ) ' , and in that context is written with which looks like a percent sign ( % ) with  दो अतिरिक्त zeroes at the समाप्त ( जैसे a stylized रूप of the चार zeros in the denominator , हालांकि it originates as a प्राकृतिक एक्सटेंशन of the प्रतिशत  ( % ) and permille ( ‰ ) signs ) .
A basis point is  पारिभाषित  as:
1 basis  पाइंट = 1 permyriad  = one one-hundredth percent
1 bp =  1 = 0.01 % =  0.1‰ = 10−4 = = 0.0001
1 % = 100 bp  =  100
आधार अंक हैं प्रयुक्त as a सुविधाजनक ईकाई of  measurement in contexts where percentage differences of less than 1 % are discussed .
The most common example is interest  दरों , जहाँ मतभेद in ब्याज दरों  of less than 1 % per year are usually meaningful to talk about .
लिये उदाहरण , a अंतर  of 0.10 percentage points is equivalent to a change of 10 basis points ( e.g . a 4.67 % rate increases by 10 basis points to 4.77 % ) .
Like percentage points , basis points avoid the ambiguity between relative and absolute discussions about  ब्याज दरों by  dealing only with the absolute change in numeric value of a rate .
For example , if a report says there  रै महरूम a `` 1 % बढ़ाएँ '' इससे  a 10 % interest rate , this could refer to an increase either from 10 % to 10.1 % ( relative , 1 % of 10 % ) , or from 10 % to 11 % ( absolute , 1 % plus 10 % ) .
If , however , the report says there has been a `` 10 basis point increase '' from a 10 % interest rate , then we know that the interest   rate of 10 % has increased by 0.10 % ( the absolute change ) to a 10.1 % rate .
It is common  अभ्यास in the वित्तीय उद्योग to उपयोग आधार अंक to denote a रेट बदलें in a वित्तीय  instrument , or the difference ( spread ) between two interest rates , including the yields of fixed-income securities .
Since certain loans and bonds may commonly be quoted in relation to some index or  underlying सुरक्षा , वे होगा प्रायः be कोटेड  as a spread over ( or under ) the index .
For example , a loan that bears interest of 0.50 % per annum above the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) is said to be 50 basis points over LIBOR ,  जिससे is commonly expressed as `` l+50bps '' or बस  `` L+50 '' .
The term `` basis point ''  रै इसके origins in व्यापार  the `` basis '' or the spread between two interest rates .
Since the basis is usually small ,  ये हैं कोटेड  multiplied up by 10000 , and hence a `` full point '' movement in the `` basis '' is a basis point .
Contrast with pips in FX  आगे  markets .
The relationship between percentage changes and basis points can  be summarized as फ़ॉलो : 1 प्रतिशत  point change = 100 basis points , and 0.01 percentage points = 1 basis point .
So , a bond whose yield increases from 5 % to 5.5 % is said to increase by 50  आधार अंक ; or ब्याज दरों कि have risen 1 प्रतिशत  point are said to have increased by 100 basis points .
The British Royal Family is the group of close relatives of  the monarch of the संयुक्त  Kingdom .
The term is also commonly applied to the same group of people who are the relations of the monarch in her or his role as sovereign of any of the other Commonwealth  realms , यूँ sometimes at variance साथ आधिकारिक  national terms for the family .
Members of the Royal Family belong to , either by birth or marriage , the House of  विंडसर , चूंकि 1917 , जब जार्ज v बदला the नाम of the royal हाउस  from Saxe-Coburg and Gotha .
This decision was primarily taken because Britain and her Empire were at war with Germany and given the British Royal  परिवार 's दमदार जर्मनी ancestry ; it थी लगा कि इसके पब्लिक चित्र could  be improved by choosing a more British house name .
The new name chosen , Windsor , had absolutely no connection other than as the name of the castle which  थी और  continues to be a royal residence .
Although in the United Kingdom there is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the Royal Family , and different lists will include different people , those carrying the style Her or His Majesty ( HM ) , or Her or His Royal Highness ( HRH ) are always considered members , which usually results in the  अनुप्रयोग of the पद to the monarch , the consort of the monarch , the विधवा consorts of पिछला monarchs , the children of the monarch और पिछला monarchs , the male-line grandchildren  of the monarch and previous monarchs , and the spouses and the widows of a monarch 's and previous monarch 's sons and male-line grandsons .
On 30  नवम्बर 1917 , किंग जार्ज v जारी अक्षर पेटेंट  defining who are members of the Royal Family ; the text of the notice from the London Gazette is as follows:
In 1996 , Her  majesty the महारानी परिवर्धित  these Letters Patent , as was evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
In 2013 Letters Patent were issued to extend a title and a style borne by members of the Royal Family  to अतिरिक्त व्यक्तियों  to be born , evidenced by this Notice from the London Gazette:
Members and  रिश्तेदारों of the अंग्रेजों  Royal Family historically represented the monarch in various places throughout the British Empire , sometimes for extended periods as viceroys , or for specific ceremonies or events .
Today , they often perform ceremonial  और सोशल  duties throughout the United Kingdom and abroad on behalf of the United Kingdom .
Aside from the monarch , their only constitutional role in the affairs of government is to serve , if eligible and when appointed by letters patent , as  a काउंसलर of राज्य , दो or अधिक of जिसको कसरत the प्राधिकार of the क्राउन ( भीतर stipulated हद ) in the indisposal or अनुपस्थिति इससे the  British realm of the monarch .
In the other realms of the Commonwealth royalty do not  serve as counsellors of  State .
However in each such realm the monarch 's  परिवार सदस्यों may अधिनियम on  behalf of , are funded by , and represent the sovereign of that particular state , and not the United Kingdom .
The  महारानी , उसके consort , उसके children और  grandchildren , as well as all former sovereigns ' children and grandchildren hold places in the first sections of the official orders of precedence in England and Wales , Scotland , and Northern Ireland .
Wives of the said enjoy their husbands ' precedence , and husbands of princesses are  unofficially लकिन habitually लगाई  with their wives as well .
However , the Queen changed the private order of precedence in the Royal Family in favour of Princesses Anne and Alexandra , who henceforth take private precedence over the Duchess of Cornwall ,  जो is वरना the फ्रेम 's उच्चतम रैंकिंग स्त्री बाद the महारानी herself  .
वो किया  not alter the relative precedence of other born-princesses , such as the daughters of her younger sons .
हैती ( ; haitian  Creole Ayiti ) , officially the Republic of Haiti ( ; ) , is a Caribbean country .
It occupies  the पश्चिमी , छोटी portion of the  island of Hispaniola , in the Greater Antillean archipelago , which it shares with the Dominican Republic .
Ayiti ( land of high  kyu ) थी the स्वदेशी  Taíno or Amerindian name for the island .
The  देश 's उच्चतम पाइंट  is Pic la Selle , at .
The total area of Haiti is and  इसके पूंजी is port-au-prince  .
Haitian  क्रियोल और फ्रेंच  are the official languages .
Haiti 's regional , historical , and ethno-linguistic  स्थिति is अद्वितीय  for several reasons .
It was the first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean , the first black -led republic in the world , and the second republic in the Americas when it gained independence in 1804  as भाग of a कामयाब स्लेव क्रान्ति स्थायी nearly a दशक .
In  2012 , हैती घोषित  its intention to seek associate membership status in the African Union .
Haiti is the  सबसे populous of the predominantly  Francophone independent nations in the Americas .
It is one of only two independent nations in the Americas ( along with Canada ) to designate French as an official language ; the  अन्य french-speaking क्षेत्रों हैं सब विदेशी départements , or collectivités  , of France .
Haiti is the most  populous पूरा member-state of  the Caribbean Community ( CARICOM ) .
It is the poorest  देश in the americas  as measured by the Human Development Index .
Political violence  रै occurred regularly  throughout its history , leading to government instability .
Most recently , in February 2004 , a coup d'état originating in the north of the country forced  the इस्तीफा और निर्वासन  of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide .
A  अस्थायी सरकारी took कंट्रोल साथ सुरक्षा  provided by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH ) .
Michel Martelly , the current president , was elected in the  haitian सामान्य चुनाव  , 2011 .
The  द्वीप रै था a इतिहास  of destructive earthquakes .
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck Haiti on 12 January 2010 and  तबाह port-au-prince  .
The highest  विश्वसनीय मौत  count was estimated at 220,000 .
Haitian government  estimates यहूद उच्चतर  .
The Presidential palace , Parliament and many other important structures were destroyed , along with countless homes and businesses , leaving  सैंकड़ों of हज़ारों of लोगों  homeless .
The country has yet  to रिकवर इससे the 2010 भूकंप ( और subsequent incidents ) due  to both the severity of the damage Haiti endured in 2010 , as well as a government that was ineffective well before the earthquake .
United States aid organizations have  दान $ 2 अरब  .
संयुक्त साथ अन्य अंतरराष्ट्रीय  donations , these funds are intended to contribute to the rebuilding of the country .
The Bloody Beetroots is the pseudonym of Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo , the Italian electro house and dance-punk  म्यूज़िक निर्माता , dj और फ़ोटोग्राफ़र  .
The  खूनी beetroots is well-known लिये  the black Venom mask he wears during performances .
In fact , the only identifying public feature of Rifo  is the साल `` 1977 '' tattooed  across his chest , which is both the year that the producer and punk-rock was born .
`` The Bloody  beetroots dj नियत '' contains  Sir Bob Cornelius Rifo and Tommy Tea .
A Motorola Advisor alphanumeric pager  प्रयुक्त in ब्राज़ील in the 1990s  , operated by Teletrim
A pager is  a बेतार दूरसंचार  device that receives and displays numeric or text messages , or receives and announces voice messages .
One-way pagers can only receive messages , while response  pagers और two-way pagers can भी acknowledge , जवाब to , और originate  messages using an internal transmitter .
Pagers operate as  भाग of a paging प्रणाली जिससे शामिल एक or अधिक फिक्स्ड ट्रांसमीटरों ( or in the मामला of जवाब pagers और two-way  pagers , one or more base stations ) , as well as a number of pagers carried by mobile users .
These systems can range from a restaurant system with a single low-power  ट्रांसमीटर , to a देशभर  system with thousands of high-power base stations .
One of the first practical paging services was launched in 1950 for  physicians in the नई यॉर्क नगर क्षेत्रफल  .
Physicians paid US $ 12 per month for the  सेवा और carried a ( 6 oz ) पेजर कि  would receive phone messages within ( 25 mi ) of a single transmitter tower .
the प्रणाली थी manufactured  by the Reevesound Company and operated by Telanswerphone .
In 1960 , John Francis Mitchell combined elements of Motorola 's Walkie Talkie and automobile radio  technologies to बनाएँ the पहला transistorized पेजर  , and from this point , paging technology continued to advance , and pager adoption continued to expand , until the early 1990s .
However , by the mid-1990s , as  सेल्यूलर technologies  became cheaper and more widely available , advanced services began to displace paging as a commercial product .
Today , pagers  मौजूद largely as niche उत्पाद  , finding preferential use in applications such as hospitals , public safety , and retail locations where their simplicity , high reliability , and low cost represent significant advantages .
Reevesville is a  कस्बा in dorchester  County , South Carolina , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 196 at the  2010 census .
As defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget , and used by the U.S. Census Bureau for statistical  उद्देश्य तभी , reevesville is शामिल भीतर the charleston-north  Charleston-Summerville metropolitan area .
Frida Kahlo de Rivera ( born Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderón ; July 6 , 1907  – जुलाई 13 , 1954 ) थी a मैक्सिकन  painter , born in Coyoacán , who is best known for her self-portraits .
Kahlo 's life began and  ended in मैक्सिको नगर  , in her home known as the Blue House .
She gave her birth date as July 7 , 1910 , but her birth  प्रमाणपत्र  shows July 6 , 1907 .
Kahlo had allegedly wanted the year of  उसके जनम to coincide साथ the साल of the शुरूआत of the मैक्सिकन  revolution so that her life would begin with the birth of modern Mexico .
Her work has been celebrated in Mexico as emblematic of national and indigenous tradition , and by  नारीवादी लिये इसके uncompromising चित्रण  of the female experience and form .
Mexican  संस्कृति और amerindian सांस्कृतिक परंपरा  are important in her work , which has been sometimes characterized as Naïve art or folk art .
Her work has also been described as `` surrealist '' , and in 1938 André Breton , principal initiator of the  surrealist  movement , described Kahlo 's art as a `` ribbon around a bomb '' .
Kahlo had a volatile marriage with the famous Mexican  कलाकार डिएगो रिवेरा  .
She suffered lifelong  स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं  .
Many of her health problems were the result of  a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना वो  survived as a teenager .
Recovering from her injuries isolated her from other people and this  अलगाव बहकावे उसके works , अनेक of जिससे हैं self-portraits  of one sort or another .
Kahlo  सुझाया , `` i पेंट खुद  because I am so often alone and because I am the subject I know best . ''
She also stated , ``  i थी born a कुतिया  .
I was born  a चित्रकार  . ''
300px
theresienwiese on the  day before Oktoberfest 2006
Oktoberfest is a 16-day festival celebrating beer held annually in Munich , Bavaria , Germany , running from late  सितंबर to the पहला वीकेंड in अक्तूबर .
It is one of the most famous events in Germany and is the  संसार 's largest मेला  , with more than 6 million people from around the world attending the event every year .
To the locals , it is not  पुकारा oktoberfest , लकिन `` die wiesn ''  , after the colloquial name of the fairgrounds themselves .
The Oktoberfest is an important  भाग of bar संस्कृति  , having been held since 1810 .
Other cities across the world also hold Oktoberfest  जश्न , modeled बाद  the original Munich event .
The Munich Oktoberfest  originally took प्लेस दौरान the  sixteen days up to , and including , the first Sunday in October .
In 1994 , the schedule was modified in response to German reunification so that if the first Sunday in October falls on the 1st or 2nd , then the  पर्व होता go on जबतक अक्तूबर 3 ( जर्मनी एकता दिन )  .
Thus , the festival is now 17 days when the first Sunday is October 2 and 18  दिनों जब it is अक्तूबर 1 .
In 2010 , the festival lasted until  the पहला सोमवार in अक्तूबर , to  mark the anniversary of the event .
The festival is held in an area named the  theresienwiese ( फ़ील्ड ,  or meadow , of Therese ) , often called Wiesn for short , located near Munich 's center .
Large quantities of  oktoberfest बियर हैं खपत  , with almost 7 million liters served during the 16 day festival in 2007 .
Visitors may also enjoy a wide variety of traditional food such as Hendl ( chicken ) , Schweinebraten ( roast pork ) , Schweinshaxe ( grilled ham hock ) , Steckerlfisch ( grilled fish on a stick )  , würstl ( sausages ) साथ साथ brezeln ( pretzel  ) , Knödel ( potato or bread dumplings ) , Käsespätzle ( cheese noodles ) , Reiberdatschi ( potato pancakes ) , Sauerkraut or Rotkohl/Blaukraut ( red cabbage ) along with such Bavarian delicacies as Obatzda ( a spiced cheese-butter spread ) and Weisswurst ( a white sausage ) .
A platter with  चीज और  garnishes
Wheels of  gouda
Cheese is a generic term for a diverse  समूह of milk-based  food products .
Cheese is produced in wide-ranging flavors ,  बनावट , और  forms .
Cheese consists of proteins and fat from milk , usually  the मिल्क of गायों , भैंस , बकरियों  , or sheep .
It is  उत्पादित by  coagulation of the milk protein casein .
Typically , the milk is  acidified और जोड of the एंजाइम  rennet causes coagulation .
The solids are  अलग और  pressed into final form .
Some  cheeses have  molds on the rind or throughout .
सबसे cheeses  melt at cooking temperature .
Hundreds of types of cheese from  विभिन्न देशों हैं  produced .
Their styles , textures and flavors  निर्भर on the उत्पत्ति of the मिल्क ( सहित the एनिमल 's आहार  ) , whether they have been pasteurized , the butterfat content , the bacteria and mold , the processing , and aging .
Herbs , spices , or  लकडी धुँआ may  be used as flavoring agents .
The yellow to red color of many  cheeses , ऐसे  as Red Leicester , is normally formed from adding annatto .
For a few cheeses , the milk is curdled by adding acids such as  सिरका or  lemon juice .
Most cheeses are acidified to a lesser degree by bacteria , which turn milk sugars  into लैक्टिक एसिड , तब the जोड  of rennet completes the curdling .
शाकाहारी विकल्प to rennet हैं उपलब्धियाँ ; सबसे  are produced by fermentation of the fungus Mucor miehei , but others have been extracted from various species of the Cynara thistle family .
Cheese is  valued लिये इसके पोर्टेबिलिटी  , long life , and high content of fat , protein , calcium , and phosphorus .
Cheese is more  कॉम्पैक्ट और रै a longer शेल्फ जीवन than मिल्क , हालांकि कैसा long  a cheese will keep may depend on the type of cheese ; labels on packets of cheese often claim that a cheese should be consumed within three to five days of opening .
Generally speaking , hard cheeses last longer than soft cheeses , such as Brie or  बकरी 's  milk cheese .
Cheesemakers  निकट a दुग्ध प्रदेश may लाभ  from fresher , lower-priced milk , and lower shipping costs .
The long storage life of some cheese , especially if it is encased in a  सुरक्षात्मक rind , allows selling  when markets are favorable .
Additional ingredients may be added to some cheeses , such as black  मिर्च , लहसुन , chives  or cranberries .
A  विशेषज्ञ विक्रेता of  cheese is sometimes known as a cheesemonger .
To become an expert in this field , like wine or cooking , requires some formal education and  सालो of चख और hands-on अनुभव  .
This position is typically responsible for  सब पहलुओं of the चीज inventory  ; selecting the cheese menu , purchasing , receiving , storage , and ripening .
Legal citation  सिग्नल हैं a नियत of  brief abbreviated phrases or words used to clarify the authority or significance of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition .
Signals help a reader quickly discern meaning or usefulness of a  particular सन्दर्भ जब the सन्दर्भ itself करता नहीं provide  adequate information .
Most citation signals  हैं लगाई  in front of the citation to which they apply .
For  उदाहरण , in the अनुच्छेद  When writing a legal argument , it is important to refer to primary sources .
To assist readers in locating these sources  , it  is desirable to use a standardized citation format .
See generally Harvard  विधि पुनर्विलोकन संघ ,  The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) .
Note , however , that some courts may require any legal papers that are submitted to them to conform  to a अलग citation  format .
the signal is the phrase `` see generally , '' which indicates that the citation `` The Bluebook : A Uniform System of Citation ( 18th ed . 2005 ) '' provides general  पृष्ठभूमि सूचना on the टॉपिक  .
Neil Alden  आर्मस्ट्रांग  ( August 5 , 1930 – August 25 , 2012 ) was an American astronaut and the first person to walk on the Moon .
he थी भी an aerospace इंजीनियर  , naval aviator , test pilot , and university professor .
Before becoming an astronaut , Armstrong was  an अधिकारी in  the U.S. Navy and served in the Korean War .
After the war , he  अर्जित उसके स्नातक 's उपाधि at purdue विश्वविद्यालयों और परोसा as a परीक्षण पायलट at the  National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics High-Speed Flight Station , now known as the Dryden Flight Research Center , where he logged over 900 flights .
He later completed graduate studies at the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Southern California .
A participant in the U.S. Air Force 's Man in  स्पेस soonest और x-20 dyna-soar इंसान spaceflight  programs , Armstrong joined the NASA Astronaut Corps in 1962 .
He made his first space flight , as command pilot  of मिथुन 8 , in 1966  , becoming NASA 's first civilian astronaut to fly in space .
On this mission , he performed the first  डॉकिंग of दो spacecraft ,  with pilot David Scott .
Armstrong 's  दूसरी और पिछला spaceflight थी as मिशन  commander of the Apollo 11 moon landing , in July 1969 .
On this mission , Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin descended to the lunar surface  और खर्च दो और a हाफ घंटों exploring , जबकि माइकल कॉलिन्स remained  in lunar orbit in the Command Module .
Along with Collins and Aldrin ,  आर्मस्ट्रांग थी awarded the अध्यक्षीय पदक of स्वतंत्रता by अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड निक्सन ; in 1978 , अध्यक्ष jimmy  Carter presented Armstrong the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in 1978 ; he and his former crewmates received the Congressional Gold Medal in 2009 .
Armstrong died in  सिनसिनाटी , ओहियो , on अगस्त 25 , 2012 ,  at the age of 82 , after complications from coronary artery bypass surgery .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970 – October 4 , 1989 ) was an American Thoroughbred  racehorse कि in 1973 became the पहला u.s . ट्रिपल क्राउन चैंपियन in  25 years .
He set race records in all three events in the Series — the Kentucky Derby ( 1:59.4 ) , the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ) , and the  belmont stakes ( 2:24 ) — रिकॉर्ड  that still stand today .
He  is माना  to be one of the greatest Thoroughbreds of all time .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked Secretariat the 35th best athlete of the 20th  सदी , the उच्चतम रैंकिंग  racehorse on the list URL_http .
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The  blood-horse 's सूची of  the Top 100 U.S. Racehorses of the 20th Century .
Secretariat was sired by  बिंदास शासक आउट of somethingroyal  , by Princequillo .
He was foaled at The  मर्ग in  Caroline County , Virginia .
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War , Secretariat was a large chestnut colt  और थी दिए the वही उपनाम  , `` Big Red . ''
Secretariat 's grandsire , Nasrullah , is also the great-great-grandsire of  1977 ट्रिपल क्राउन विजेता सिएटल slew  .
Owned by Penny  chenery , he थी प्रशिक्षित by lucien laurin और मुख्यतः ridden by कनाडाई  jockey Ron Turcotte , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He raced in Chenery 's  मर्ग stable 's ब्लू  and white checkered colors and his groom was Eddie Sweat .
Secretariat stood approximately tall , and weighed  , साथ a 75-inch girth , in  his racing prime .
Madrid  ( , ) is the  capital and largest city of Spain .
The population of the city is roughly 3.3 million and the entire population of the  मैड्रिड महानगर क्षेत्रफल is गणना to be around 6.5  million .
It is the  third-largest नगर in the यूरोपीय संघ , बाद लंदन  and Berlin , and its metropolitan area is the third-largest in the European Union after London and Paris .
The city spans a  कुल of  .
The city is located on the Manzanares river in the centre of both the country and the Community of Madrid ( which comprises the city of Madrid , its conurbation and extended suburbs  और गांवों ) ; इस जातियाँ is bordered by the autonomous समुदायों  of Castile and León and Castile-La Mancha .
As the  पूंजी नगर of स्पेन  , seat of government , and residence of the Spanish monarch , Madrid is also the political , economic and cultural centre of Spain .
The  वर्तमान महापौर is ana botella  from the People 's Party ( PP ) .
The Madrid urban agglomeration has the third-largest GDP in the European Union and its influences in politics , education , entertainment ,  पर्यावरण , मीडिया , फ़ैशन , विज्ञान , संस्कृति , और the कला सब योगदान to इसके औकात  as one of the world 's major global cities .
Due to its economic output , high standard of living , and market size , Madrid is  माना the प्रमुख वित्तीय केन्द्र of दक्षिणी यूरोपीय और the इबेरिया प्रायद्वीप  ; it hosts the head offices of the vast majority of the major Spanish companies , such as Telefónica , Iberia or Repsol .
Madrid is the most touristic city of Spain , the fourth-most touristic of the continent  , और the सातवाँ सबसे visited  city in the world according to Forbes .
Is the 10th most livable  नगर in the संसार according  to Monocle magazine , in its 2010 index .
Madrid  भी बाँधने among  the 12 greenest European cities in 2010. < ref name= '' http : //www.citymayors.com/environment/greenest-cities-europe.html '' > Madrid is currently a Candidate City for the 2020 Summer Olympics .
Madrid houses the headquarters of the World Tourism Organization ( WTO ) , belonging to the United Nations Organization ( UN ) , the SEGIB , the  संगठन of ibero-american राज्य ( oei  ) , and the Public Interest Oversight Board ( PIOB ) .
It also hosts major international institutions  regulators of स्पेनी : the खड़ा कमेटी of the संघ  of Spanish Language Academies , headquarters of the Royal Spanish Academy ( RAE ) , the Cervantes Institute and the Foundation of Urgent Spanish ( Fundéu ) .
Madrid organizes fairs as FITUR , ARCO , SIMO  tci और the cibeles मैड्रिड  Fashion Week .
While Madrid possesses a modern  अवसंरचना , it रै preserved the dekh  and feel of many of its historic neighbourhoods and streets .
Its landmarks include the Royal Palace of Madrid ; the Teatro Real ( Royal theatre ) with its restored 1850 Opera House ; the Buen Retiro Park , founded in 1631 ; the 19th-century National Library building ( founded in 1712 ) containing some of Spain 's historical archives ; a large number of  नेशनल संग्रहालय , और the सुनहरी त्रिभुज of आर्ट , स्तिथ साथ the paseo डेल प्राडो  and comprising three art museums : Prado Museum , the Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía , a museum of modern art , and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum , which completes the shortcomings of the other two museums .
Cibeles  राजमहल और फव्वारा  have become the monument symbol of the city .
The path of the Via Appia  और of the via  Appia Traiana .
Remains of  the appian रास्ता in  Rome , near Quarto Miglio
Near  रोम  .
The Appian Way ( Latin and  इतालवी : via appia ) थी एक of the earliest और रणनीतिक  most important Roman roads of the ancient republic .
It  कनेक्ट रोम to brindisi  , Apulia , in southeast Italy .
Its importance is  indicated by इसके आम  name , recorded by Statius :
Appia  teritur रेजिना  longarum viarum
`` the  appian रास्ता  is the queen of the long roads ''
The road is named  बाद appius claudius caecus , the  Roman censor who began and completed the first section as a military road to the south in 312 BC during the Samnite Wars .
The Draupner wave , a single giant wave  measured on नई साल 's  Day 1995 , finally confirmed the existence of freak waves , which had previously been considered near-mythical
Rogue waves ( also known as freak waves , monster waves , killer waves , extreme waves , and abnormal waves ) are relatively large and spontaneous ocean surface waves  कि occur दूर आउट at समुद्र , और हैं a threat भी to विशाल जहाजों और समंदर liners  .
In oceanography , they  हैं अधिक precisely पारिभाषित as लहरें जिनकी ऊँचाई  is more than twice the significant wave height ( SWH ) , which is itself defined as the mean of the largest third of waves in a wave record .
Therefore rogue waves are not necessarily the biggest waves found at sea ; they are ,  बल्कि , surprisingly  large waves for a given sea state .
Rogue waves seem not to have a single distinct cause , but occur where physical factors such as high winds and strong currents cause waves to merge to  बनाएँ a सिंगल exceptional विशाल  wave .
electress sophia  of Hanover ( 1630–1714 )
The  लकीर of उत्तराधिकार to the अंग्रेजों सिंहासन is the ordered अनुक्रम  of all those people eligible to succeed to the throne of the United Kingdom and the other 15 Commonwealth realms .
The Act of Settlement 1701 bestowed succession on the  electress sophia of हनोवर और उसके वंशजों जबकि excluding  Roman Catholics .
The British government does not publish an official list of all those in line to succeed , but the work of genealogical authors and amateur researchers suggests that there are several thousand  लोगों potentially in लकीर  .
At a  समिट in पर्थ , पश्चिमी ऑस्ट्रेलिया  in 2011 , the heads of government of all 16 Commonwealth realms agreed to take steps to adopt absolute primogeniture , end the exclusion of people married to Roman Catholics , and make other changes in the succession rules .
The line of succession is also used to select the Counsellors of State ( and a regent if the need arises ) under  the प्रावधानों of the रीजेंसी अधिनियम 1937  .
For earlier versions of the line  of उत्तराधिकार , देखिए  History of the British line of succession .
Edward Montgomery Clift ( October 17 ,  1920july 23 , 1966 ) थी  an American film and stage actor The New York Times’ obituary noted his portrayal of `` moody , sensitive young men '' .
He often played outsiders and `` victim-heroes '' ; examples include the social climber in George Stevens 's A Place in the Sun , the anguished Catholic priest in Hitchcock 's I Confess ,  the doomed नियमित सिपाही रॉबर्ट E. ली prewitt in फ्रेड zinnemann 's इससे यहाँ to शाश्वत , और the यहूदी gi bullied by antisemites in एडवर्ड dmytryk 's the यंग  Lions .
Later , after a disfiguring car crash in 1956 , and alcohol and prescription drug  गाली , he became  erratic .
Nevertheless important roles were still his , including  `` the लापरवाह , alcoholic , mother-fixated रोडियो यजमान '' in जॉन  Huston 's The Misfits , the title role in Huston 's , and the concentration camp victim in Stanley Kramer 's Judgment at Nuremberg . ''
Clift received four Academy Award nominations during his career , three for Best Actor and one for Best  supporting  Actor .
The War on Terror ( also known as the Global War on Terrorism ) is a  पद commonly लागू to an अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान जिससे प्रारंभ as a परिणाम of the  11 September 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States .
This resulted in an  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सैन्य अभियान  to eliminate al-Qaeda and other militant organizations .
The United Kingdom and many other NATO and  non-nato राष्ट्र  participate in the conflict .
The phrase 'War on Terror ' was first used by US  अध्यक्ष जार्ज W. बुश on  20 September 2001 .
The Bush  प्रशासन और the पश्चिमी मीडिया have चूंकि प्रयुक्त the पद to signify  a global military , political , lawful , and conceptual struggle—targeting both organizations designated as terrorist and regimes accused of supporting them .
It was  typically प्रयुक्त साथ a particular फ़ोकस  on militant Islamists , al-Qaeda , and other jihadi groups .
Although the term is not officially used by the administration of US President Barack Obama ( which instead uses the term Overseas Contingency Operation ) , it is still commonly used by politicians , in  the मीडिया और by कुछ पहलुओं of सरकारी officially  , such as the United States ' Global War on Terrorism Service Medal .
German  battleship schleswig-holstein  , Westerplatte , September 1 , 1939
विनाशक uss शॉ exploding  after her forward magazine was detonated during the Attack on Pearl Harbor
The main causes of  संसार युद्ध ii यहूद nationalistic मुद्दे , अनसुलझे मुद्दे , और resentments  resulting from World War I and the interwar period in Europe , in addition to the effects of the Great Depression in the 1930s .
The culmination of events that led to the outbreak of war are generally  समझा to be the  1939 invasion of Poland by Germany and Soviet Russia and the 1937 invasion of the Republic of China by the Empire of Japan .
These military aggressions were the result of decisions made by the authoritarian ruling Nazi elite in Germany and  by the नेतृत्व of the kwantung  Army in Japan .
World War II started  बाद ये आक्रामक क्रियाएँ यहूद मिले साथ an आधिकारिक  declaration of war and/or armed resistance .
The following is a list of gods and other  दैवी और semi-divine आंकड़े इससे यूनानी  mythology .
The list does not include creatures ; for  ये , देखिए सूची of यूनानी पौराणिक  creatures .
The Mitsubishi Galant is an automobile  manufactured by मित्सुबिशी  Motors between 1969 and 2012 .
The name was  निकला इससे the  French word galant , meaning `` chivalrous '' .
There have been nine  पृथक पीढियां , और संचयी  sales now exceed five million .
It began as a compact sedan ,  लकिन over the कोर्स of इसके जीवन  has evolved into a larger mid-size car .
Initial production was only based in Japan , but since 1994 the American market has been served by vehicles assembled at the former Diamond-Star Motors ( DSM ) facility  in  Normal , Illinois .
Blood pressure ( BP ) , sometimes referred to as arterial blood pressure , is the pressure exerted by circulating  रक्त upon the दीवारें of रक्त बरतन , और is एक of the प्रिंसिपल vital  signs .
When used without further specification , `` blood pressure '' usually refers to the arterial pressure of the systemic  परिसंचरण  .
During each  धड़कन , रक्त दबाव varies between  a maximum ( systolic ) and a minimum ( diastolic ) pressure .
The blood pressure in  the परिसंचरण  is principally due to the pumping action of the heart .
Differences in mean  रक्त दबाव हैं जिम्मेदार लिये  blood flow from one location to another in the circulation .
The rate of mean blood flow depends on the resistance to flow presented by  the रक्त  vessels .
Mean blood pressure decreases as the circulating blood moves away from the heart  through धमनियों और capillaries  due to viscous losses of energy .
Mean blood pressure drops over the whole circulation ,  हालांकि सबसे of the पतन occurs साथ the  small arteries and arterioles .
Gravity affects blood pressure via hydrostatic forces ( e.g. , during standing ) and valves in veins , breathing , and pumping from contraction of skeletal muscles  भी influence रक्त दबाव in रगों  .
Blood pressure without further specification  प्रायः refers to the प्रणालीगत arterial दबाव  measured at a person 's upper arm and is a measure of the pressure in the brachial artery , the major artery in the upper arm .
A person’s blood pressure is usually  expressed in शर्तें  of the systolic pressure over diastolic pressure and is measured in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ) , for example 120/80 .
A veto – Latin for `` I forbid '' – is the power ( used by an  अधिकारी of the राज्य , लिये उदाहरण ) to unilaterally रोकें an आधिकारिक कार्रवाई , विशेषकर  the enactment of legislation .
A veto can be absolute , as for instance in the United Nations Security Council , whose permanent members  ( चीन , फ़्रांस , रूस , संयुक्त  Kingdom , United States of America ) can block any resolution .
Or it can be limited , as in the  विधान प्रक्रम of the संयुक्त राज्य , जहाँ a two-thirds vote in  both the House and Senate may override a Presidential veto of legislation .
A veto only gives power to stop changes ,  नहीं to अपनाना उन्हें  ( except for the rare `` amendatory veto '' ) .
Thus a veto allows  इसके होल्डर to protect  the status quo .
The concept of a veto body originated  साथ the रोमन  consuls and tribunes .
Either of the two consuls holding office in a given year could block a military or  सिविल निर्णय by the अन्य ; कोई ट्रिब्यून था the शक्ति to unilaterally  block legislation passed by the Roman Senate .
Sulfur dioxide ( also sulphur dioxide ) is the  रासायनिक यौगिक साथ the  formula .
It is a toxic gas with a pungent , irritating  महकते , कि is released by ज्वालामुखी और  in various industrial processes .
Since coal and petroleum often contain sulfur compounds , their combustion generates sulfur dioxide unless  the गंधक यौगिकों हैं removed पहले burning the ईंधन  .
Further oxidation of SO2 , usually in the presence of a catalyst such as NO2 , forms  h2so4 , और यूँ एसिड बरसात  .
Sulfur  डाइऑक्साइड emissions हैं भी  a precursor to particulates in the atmosphere .
Both of these impacts  हैं कारण लिये चिंता  over the environmental impact of these fuels .
Myasthenia gravis ( from Greek μύς `` muscle '' , `` weakness '' , and `` serious '' ; abbreviated MG ) is an autoimmune neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle  कमज़ोरी और fatigability  .
It is an autoimmune  विकार , in जिससे कमज़ोरी is caused by circulating antibodies कि ब्लाक acetylcholine  receptors at the postsynaptic neuromuscular junction , inhibiting the excitatory effects of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine on nicotinic receptors throughout neuromuscular junctions .
Myasthenia is treated medically with  acetylcholinesterase inhibitors  or immunosuppressants , and , in selected cases , thymectomy .
The disease incidence is 3–30 cases per million per  साल और उठती as a परिणाम of increased  awareness .
MG must be distinguished from congenital myasthenic  syndromes कि can उपस्थित समान  symptoms but offer no response to immunosuppressive treatments .
Reflective twisted nematic  द्रव क्रिस्टल प्रदर्शक  .
polarizing फिल्टर फिल्मी साथ  a vertical axis to polarize light as it enters .
Glass  substrate साथ  ITO electrodes .
The  आकार  of these electrodes will determine the shapes that will appear when the LCD is turned ON .
Vertical ridges etched on the  सतह हैं चिकना  .
Twisted  nematic  liquid crystal .
Glass substrate with  आम एलेक्ट्रोड फिल्मी ( ito ) साथ आड़ा  ridges to line up with the horizontal filter .
Polarizing filter film  साथ a आड़ा अक्ष  to block/pass light .
Reflective  सतह to भेजें  light back to viewer .
( In a backlit LCD ,  इस परत is replaced  with a light source . )
A liquid-crystal display ( LCD ) is a flat panel display  , इलेक्ट्रॉनिक विज़ुअल  display , or video display that uses the light modulating properties of liquid crystals .
Liquid crystals do not emit  लाइट सीधे  .
LCDs are available to display arbitrary  बिंब ( as in a general-purpose कंप्यूटर प्रदर्शक ) or  fixed images which can be displayed or hidden , such as preset words , digits , and 7-segment displays as in a digital clock .
They use the same basic technology ,  मगर कि मनमानी बिंब हैं बना up of a विशाल क्रमांक  of small pixels , while other displays have larger elements .
LCDs are used in a wide range of applications including computer monitors , televisions , instrument  panels , वायुयान कॉकपिट प्रदर्शक , और साइनेज  .
They are common in consumer devices such as video players , gaming devices , clocks , watches , calculators , and  telephones , और have replaced कैथोड रे ट्यूब ( crt ) प्रदर्शक in  most applications .
They are available in a wider range of screen sizes  than crt और प्लाज्मा प्रदर्शक , और चूंकि  they do not use phosphors , they do not suffer image burn-in .
LCDs are , however ,  susceptible to चित्र  persistence .
The LCD screen is more energy  कुशल और can be disposed  of more safely than a CRT .
Its low electrical power consumption enables it to be used in battery -powered electronic  उपकरण .
It is an electronically modulated optical device made up of any number of segments filled with  द्रव crystals और arrayed  in front of a light source ( backlight ) or reflector to produce images in color or monochrome .
द्रव crystals यहूद  first discovered in 1888 .
By 2008 , worldwide sales of televisions with LCD screens exceeded annual sales of CRT units ; the CRT  became obsolete लिये सबसे उद्देश्य  .
The Borgata Hotel  कसीनो और स्पा is a लक्ज़री  hotel , casino , and spa in Atlantic City , New Jersey , United States .
It is owned by Marina District Development , a joint venture between Boyd Gaming and a divesture trust  स्थापित by mgm रिसॉर्ट  International .
The $ 1.1 billion casino hotel features 2,002 rooms  और is the largest  hotel in New Jersey .
The Borgata opened in July 2003 as a Las Vegas-style  megaresort और is the top-grossing कसीनो  in Atlantic City .
A bottle of high  potency b-complex विटामिन  supplement pills .
A vitamin ( or ) is an  सशुल्क यौगिक जरूरी  by an organism as a vital nutrient in limited amounts .
an सशुल्क रासायनिक यौगिक ( or  related set of compounds ) is called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from the diet .
Thus ,  the पद is सशर्त दोनो on the हालातों  and on the particular organism .
For example , ascorbic acid ( vitamin C ) is a vitamin for humans , but not for most other animals , and biotin and vitamin D are  जरूरी in the इंसान आहार तभी in निश्चित हालातों  .
By convention , the term vitamin includes neither other essential nutrients , such as dietary minerals  , अनिवार्य वसीय acids , or अनिवार्य अमीनो acids ( जिससे हैं needed in larger amounts than विटामिन ) nor the विशाल क्रमांक  of other nutrients that promote health but are otherwise required less often .
Thirteen  विटामिन हैं  universally recognized at present .
Vitamins are  वर्गीकृत by उनके biological और रासायनिक  activity , not their structure .
Thus ,  प्रत्येक `` विटामिन '' refers to a क्रमांक  of vitamer compounds that all show the biological activity associated with a particular vitamin .
Such a set of chemicals is grouped under an alphabetized vitamin `` generic descriptor '' title , such as `` vitamin A `` , which includes the compounds retinal , retinol ,  और चार ज्ञात carotenoids  .
Vitamers by definition are convertible to the active form of the  विटामिन in the देह , और हैं sometimes inter-convertible  to one another , as well .
विटामिन have  diverse biochemical functions .
Some have hormone-like functions as regulators of mineral  चयापचय ( ऐसे as विटामिन d ) , or regulators  of cell and tissue growth and differentiation ( such as some forms of vitamin A ) .
Others  फलन as antioxidants ( e.g. ,  vitamin E and sometimes vitamin C ) .
The largest number of vitamins (  ऐसे as b जटिल विटामिन ) फलन as precursors लिये एंजाइम cofactors  , that help enzymes in their work as catalysts in metabolism .
In this role , vitamins may be tightly bound to enzymes as part of prosthetic  समूह : लिये उदाहरण , biotin is भाग of  enzymes involved in making fatty acids .
Vitamins may also be less tightly bound to enzyme catalysts as coenzymes , detachable molecules that function to carry chemical  समूह or electrons  between molecules .
For example , folic acid may  carry मिथाइल , formyl , और methylene  groups in the cell .
Although these roles in assisting  enzyme-substrate प्रतिक्रियाएँ  are vitamins ' best-known function , the other vitamin functions are equally important .
Until the mid-1930s , when the first commercial  yeast-extract विटामिन b जटिल  and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold , vitamins were obtained solely through food intake , and changes in diet ( which , for example , could occur during a particular growing season ) usually greatly altered the types and amounts of vitamins ingested .
However , vitamins have been  उत्पादित as कमोडिटी रसायन  and made widely available as inexpensive semisynthetic and synthetic-source multivitamin dietary and food supplements and additives , since the middle of the 20th century .
World Muslim  जनसांख्यिकी by प्रतिशत  ( Pew Research Center , 2009 )
World  मुस्लिम जनसांख्यिकी  in millions
Islam is the  संसार  's second largest religion after Christianity .
According to a  2010 पढ़ाई  , Islam has 1.62 billion adherents , making up over 23 % of the world population .
Islam is the predominant religion in the Middle East , in Sahel , in the Horn of Africa and  उत्तरी अफ़्रीकी , और in कुछ भाग of एशिया  .
Large communities of Muslims are also found in China ,  the balkans , और  Russia .
Other parts of the world host large Muslim immigrant communities ; in Western Europe , for instance ,  islam is the दूसरी largest धर्म बाद christianity , जहाँ it represents  6 % of the total population .
According to the Pew Research Center in 2010  वहीँ यहूद 49 muslim-majority  countries .
Around 62 % of the world 's  मुसलमान सजीव in  South and Southeast Asia , with over 1 billion adherents .
The largest Muslim country is Indonesia , home  to 12.7 % of the संसार 's मुसलमान  , followed by Pakistan ( 11.0 % ) , India ( 10.9 % ) , and Bangladesh ( 9.2 % ) .
About  20 %  of Muslims live in Arab countries .
In the Middle East  , the non-arab देशों of तुर्कों और इरान हैं the largest  Muslim-majority countries ; in Africa , Egypt and Nigeria have the most populous Muslim communities .
A study conducted  by the pew शोध बीच in 2010 और released जनवरी 2011  found that there are 1.62 billion Muslims around the world .
The study found more Muslims in  the संयुक्त  Kingdom than in Lebanon and more in China than in Syria .
Rhode Island ( or ) , officially the State of Rhode Island and Providence  बागानों , is a राज्य in the  New England region of the United States .
Rhode Island is the smallest in area ,  the आठवीं तनिक populous  , but the second most densely populated of the 50 US states behind New Jersey .
Rhode Island is bordered by Connecticut to the west and Massachusetts to the north and east , and it shares a water boundary with New York  's long द्वीप to the दक्षिणपश्चिम .
Rhode Island was the first of the 13 original colonies to declare independence from British rule , declaring itself independent on  may 4 , 1776 , दो  months before any other colony .
The State was also the last of the thirteen original colonies to  ratify the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution .
Rhode Island 's official  उपनाम is `` the समंदर राज्य '' , a सन्दर्भ  to the State 's geography , since Rhode Island has several large bays and inlets that amount to about 14 % of its total area .
Its land  क्षेत्रफल is , लकिन इसके  total area is significantly larger .
Dubai ( ; ' , ) is  a नगर  in the United Arab Emirates , located within the emirate of the same name .
The emirate of Dubai is located on the southeast coast of the Persian  गल्फ on the arabian प्रायद्वीप और  is one of the seven emirates that make up the country .
It has the largest population in the UAE ( 2,106,177 ) and the second-largest land  territory by क्षेत्रफल ( 4,114 km2 ) बाद abu धाबी  .
Dubai and Abu Dhabi , the  नेशनल पूंजी , हैं the तभी दो अमीरात  to have veto power over critical matters of national importance in the country 's legislature .
The city of Dubai is located on the  अमीर 's उत्तरी तटरेखा और heads up the  Dubai-Sharjah-Ajman metropolitan area .
Dubai is nowadays often  misperceived as a देश  or city-state and , in some cases , the UAE as a whole has been described as 'Dubai ' .
the earliest जिक्र of दुबई is in 1095 ad , और the earliest  recorded settlement in the region dates from 1799 .
The Sheikhdom of Dubai was formally established in 1833 by Sheikh Maktoum bin Butti Al-Maktoum when he persuaded around 800 members of  उसके जनजाति of the bani yas , जीना in कया थी तब the दूसरी सऊदी राज्य और अभी भाग  of Saudi Arabia , to follow him to the Dubai Creek by the Abu Falasa clan of the Bani Yas .
It remained under the tribe 's control  जब the संयुक्त किंगडम assumed सुरक्षा of the sheikhdom in 1892 और joined  the nascent United Arab Emirates upon independence in 1971 as the country 's second emirate .
Its strategic geographic location made the town an important trading hub and by the beginning of the 20th century , Dubai was  already an महत्वपूर्ण क्षेत्रीय  port .
Today , Dubai has emerged as a cosmopolitan metropolis  कि रै grown steadily to become a वैश्विक नगर  and a business and cultural hub of the Middle East and the Persian Gulf region .
Although Dubai 's economy was historically built on the oil industry , the emirate 's  western-style मॉडल of कारोबार ड्राइव इसके अर्थव्यवस्था साथ the  main revenues now coming from tourism , real estate , and financial services .
Dubai has recently attracted world attention through many innovative large  निर्माण प्रोजेक्ट और खेल  events .
The city  रै become सांकेतिक लिये इसके skyscrapers और high-rise इमारतें , ऐसे as  the world 's tallest Burj Khalifa , in addition to ambitious development projects including man-made islands , hotels , and some of the largest shopping malls in the region and the world .
This increased attention has also highlighted labor and human rights issues concerning the city 's  largely दक्षिण एशियाई सशुल्क workforce  .
दुबई 's प्रॉपर्टी मार्केट अनुभवी a प्रमुख deterioration  in 2008–2009 as a result of the worldwide economic downturn following the financial crisis of 2007-2008 .
however , दुबई रै बना a स्थिर  and gradual recovery with help coming from neighboring emirates .
the handful of नई प्रोजेक्ट कि  are in the pipeline have been able to help Dubai real estate make a comeback .
As of 2012 , Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in the world , and  the सबसे महंगी  city in the Middle East , surpassing Israel 's Tel Aviv ( 31st ) .
Dubai has also been rated as one of the best places to  सजीव in the मध्य ईस्ट , सहित by us अमरीकी वैश्विक  consulting firm Mercer who rated the city as the best place to live in the Middle East in 2011 .
The following is a list of colleges and  विश्वविद्यालयों in the  U.S. state of Illinois .
Surface of the Atlantic ocean meeting  the धरती 's ग्रहीय boundary  layer and troposphere .
लहरें on an  ocean coast .
This animation uses Earth science data from a variety of sensors on NASA Earth  observing satellites to माप  physical oceanography parameters such as ocean currents , ocean winds , sea surface height and sea surface temperature .
An  समंदर ( ; the संसार समंदर of शास्त्रीय प्राचीनता  ) is a body of saline water that composes a large part of a planet 's hydrosphere .
In the context of Earth , it refers to one or all of the  प्रमुख विभाजन of the ग्रह 's संसार समंदर –  they are , in descending order of area , the Pacific , Atlantic , Indian , Southern ( Antarctic ) , and Arctic Oceans .
The word `` sea `` is often used interchangeably with `` ocean '' , but  सख्ती बोलना  a sea is a body of saline water ( possibly a division of the World Ocean ) partly or fully enclosed by land .
Earth is the only planet known to  have an  ocean ( or any large amounts of open liquid water ) .
लगभग 72 % of the ग्रह 's सतह ( ~3.6x108  km2 ) is covered by saline water that is customarily divided into several principal oceans and smaller seas , with the ocean covering approximately 71 % of the Earth 's surface .
In terms of the hydrosphere of  the धरती , the समंदर  contains 97 % of the Earth 's water .
Oceanographers have stated that out of 97 % , only 5 %  of the समंदर as a पूरे  on Earth has been explored .
क्युकी it is the प्रिंसिपल घटक of धरती 's जलमंडल  , the world ocean is integral to all known life , forms part of the carbon cycle , and influences climate and weather patterns .
The total volume is  लगभग 1.3 अरब घन किलोमीटर  ( 310 million cu mi ) with an average depth of .
It is the habitat of 230,000 known species , although much of the ocean 's depths remain unexplored and it is estimated that over two  लाख  marine species exist .
The  उत्पत्ति of धरती 's महासागर is स्टिल अनजान , लकिन  oceans are believed to have formed in the Hadean period and may have been the impetus for the emergence of life .
extraterrestrial  oceans may be composed of a wide range of elements and compounds .
The only confirmed large stable bodies of extraterrestrial surface liquids are the  झीलों of टाइटन , हालांकि वहीँ is प्रमाण लिये the अस्तित्व  of oceans elsewhere in the Solar System .
Early in their  भूगर्भिक histories , मंगल  and Venus are theorized to have had large water oceans .
The Mars ocean hypothesis suggests that nearly a third  of the सतह of मंगल थी एकबार covered by जल , हालांकि the जल on  Mars is no longer oceanic , and a runaway greenhouse effect may have boiled away the global ocean of Venus .
Compounds such as salts and ammonia dissolved in water lower its freezing point  , so कि जल might मौजूद in विशाल quantities in extraterrestrial  environments as brine or convecting ice .
Unconfirmed oceans are  speculated beneath the सतह of अनेक बौना ग्रह और  natural satellites ; notably , the ocean of Europa is believed to have over twice the water volume of Earth .
The Solar System 's gas giant planets are  भी believed to possess द्रव वायुमंडलीय परतों  of yet to be confirmed compositions .
Oceans may also exist on exoplanets and  exomoons , सहित सतह महासागर of  liquid water within a circumstellar habitable zone .
Ocean planets are  a काल्पनिक प्रकार  of planet with a surface completely covered with liquid .
Elvis Aaron Presley ( January 8 , 1935 – August 16 , 1977 ) was  an अमरीकी सिंगर  and actor .
A cultural icon , he is commonly known by the  सिंगल नाम एल्विस  .
One of the most  लोकप्रिय संगीतकारों of the 20th सदी , he is प्रायः referred to as  the `` King of Rock and Roll '' or `` the King '' .
Born in Tupelo , Mississippi , Presley moved to Memphis ,  टेनेसी , साथ उसके परिवार at the आयु  of 13 .
He began his career there in 1954 , working with Sun Records owner Sam Phillips , who wanted  to लाओ the ध्वनि of african-american  music to a wider audience .
Accompanied by guitarist Scotty Moore and bassist Bill Black , Presley was the most important  popularizer of rockabilly , an uptempo , backbeat -ड्राइवn  fusion of country and rhythm and blues .
RCA Victor acquired his contract in a deal arranged by Colonel Tom Parker , who  गई on to मैनेज the सिंगर लिये over दो दशकों  .
Presley 's first RCA single , `` Heartbreak Hotel ``  , released in जनवरी 1956 , थी  a number-one hit .
he became the अग्रणी फिगर  of the newly popular sound of rock and roll with a series of network television appearances and chart-topping records .
His energized interpretations of songs , many from African-American sources , and his  uninhibited प्रदर्शन स्टाइल बना उसे enormously  popular—and controversial .
In November  1956 , he  made his film debut in Love Me Tender .
Drafted into military service in 1958 , Presley relaunched his recording career two years  बाद  with some of his most commercially successful work .
He staged few concerts however , and guided by Parker , proceeded to devote much of the 1960s to making Hollywood movies and soundtrack albums , most of them critically   derided .
In 1968 , after seven years away from the stage , he returned to live performance in a  मनाये वापसी टेलीविज़न  special that led to an extended Las Vegas concert residency and a string of profitable tours .
In  1973 प्रेस्ली मंचन  the first concert broadcast globally via satellite , Aloha from Hawaii .
Prescription drug abuse severely deteriorated his  स्वास्थ्य , और he died एकाएक  in 1977 at the age of 42 .
प्रेस्ली is regarded  as one of the most important figures of 20th-century popular culture .
He had a versatile voice and unusually wide success  encompassing अनेक जाति ,  including country , pop ballads , gospel , and blues .
He is the best-selling solo artist in the history of  लोकप्रिय  music .
Nominated for 14 competitive  grammys , he जीती तीन , और प्राप्त  the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award at age 36 .
He has been inducted into multiple music halls  of कीर्ति .
A  कांच of रूट  beer with foam
Root beer is a carbonated , sweetened beverage , originally made using the root of a sassafras  संयंत्र ( or the छाल of a sassafras पेड़ ) as the  primary flavor .
Root beer , popularized in North  अमेरिका , आता  in two forms : alcoholic and soft drink .
The historical root beer  थी analogous to छोटी बियर in कि the  process provided a drink with a very low alcohol content .
Although roots are used  as the सोर्स of अनेक  soft drinks throughout the world , often different names are used .
Fluorescent minerals  emit दृश्य लाइट जब  exposed to ultraviolet light
Fluorescence is the emission of light by a substance that has absorbed light or  अन्य इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  radiation .
it is  a form of luminescence .
In most cases  , the उत्सर्जित लाइट रै  a longer wavelength , and therefore lower energy , than the absorbed radiation .
However , when the  अवशोषित इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण is तीव्र , it is संभावित लिये एक इलेक्ट्रॉन  to absorb two photons ; this two-photon absorption can lead to emission of radiation having a shorter wavelength than the absorbed radiation .
The emitted radiation may also be of the same wavelength as the  अवशोषित विकिरण , termed  `` resonance fluorescence '' .
The most striking examples of fluorescence occur when the absorbed radiation is in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum , and thus invisible to the human eye , and the emitted  लाइट is in the दृश्य प्रदेश  .
Fluorescence has many practical applications ,  सहित mineralogy , gemology  , chemical sensors ( fluorescence spectroscopy ) , fluorescent labelling , dyes , biological detectors , and , most commonly , fluorescent lamps .
Informal logic ,  intuitively  , refers to the principles of logic and logical thought outside of a formal setting .
However , perhaps because of the informal in  the शीर्षक , the  precise definition of informal logic is a matter of some dispute .
Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair define informal logic as `` a branch of logic whose task is to  develop non-formal मानकों , मापदण्ड , प्रक्रियाओं लिये  the analysis , interpretation , evaluation , criticism and construction of argumentation . ''
This definition reflects  कया था महरूम अव्यक्त in उनके अभ्यास और कया  others were doing in their informal logic texts .
Informal logic is associated with ( informal ) fallacies , critical  सोच , the सोच कौशल  Movement and the interdisciplinary inquiry known as argumentation theory .
Frans H. van Eemeren writes that  the लेबल `` अनौपचारिक लॉजिक '' कवर a `` संग्रहण  of normative approaches to the study of reasoning in ordinary language that remain closer to the practice of argumentation than formal logic . ''
USA annual real GDP 1910–60 , with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 )  highlighted  .
Unemployment rate in the US 1910–1960 ,  साथ the सालो of the ग्रेट अवसाद  ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great  अवसाद began in अगस्त of  1929 , when the United States economy first went into an economic recession .
Although the country spent two months with  घटती जीडीपी , it थी नहीं जबतक the वॉल गली क्रैश of अक्तूबर , 1929 कि the प्रभाव of a घटती  economy were felt , and a major worldwide economic downturn ensued .
The market crash marked the beginning of a decade of high unemployment , poverty , low profits , deflation ,  plunging फार्म incomes  , and lost opportunities for economic growth and personal advancement .
Although its causes are still uncertain and controversial , the net effect  थी a अचानक और  general loss of confidence in the economic future .
The usual explanations  शामिल numerous कारकों ,  especially high consumer debt , ill-regulated markets that permitted overoptimistic loans by banks and investors , and the lack of high-growth new industries , all interacting to create a downward economic spiral of reduced spending , falling confidence , and lowered production .
उद्योग कि suffered the सबसे शामिल निर्माण , कृषि as dust-bowl शर्तें  persisted in the agricultural heartland , shipping , mining , and logging as well as durable goods like automobiles and appliances that could be postponed .
The economy reached bottom in the winter of  1932–33 ; तब आए चार सालो of बहुत  rapid growth until 1937 , when the Recession of 1937 brought back 1934 levels of unemployment .
The Depression caused major political  परिवर्तन in अमेरिका  .
Three years into the depression , Herbert Hoover lost the 1932 presidential election to  फ्रैंकलिन  Delano Roosevelt in a sweeping landslide .
Roosevelt 's economic  रिकवरी योजना , the नई सौदे , instituted unprecedented  programs for relief , recovery and reform , and brought about a major realignment of American politics .
The  अवसाद भी resulted in an बढ़ाएँ  of emigration of people to other countries for the first time in American history .
For example , some immigrants went back to their native countries , and some native US citizens went to Canada ,  ऑस्ट्रेलिया , और दक्षिण  Africa .
It also resulted in the mass migration of people  इससे badly hit क्षेत्रों in the ग्रेट मैदान और the दक्षिण to स्थान  such as California and the North , respectively ( see Okies and the Great Migration of African Americans ) .
जातिगत तनाव  also increased during this time .
By the 1940s immigration had returned  वापस to सामान्य ,  and emigration declined .
A well-known example of an  emigrant थी फ़्रैंक  McCourt , who went to Ireland , as recounted in his book Angela 's Ashes .
The memory of the Depression also shaped modern theories of economics and resulted in many changes in how the  सरकारी dealt साथ आर्थिक downturns , ऐसे  as the use of stimulus packages , Keynesian economics , and Social Security .
It also shaped modern American  साहित्य , resulting in  famous novels such as John Steinbeck 's `` The Grapes of Wrath `` and `` Of Mice and Men `` .
The Great Depression of the 1930s started with the  भण्डार मार्केट क्रैश  of October 1929 .
Turkey ( ) , officially the Republic of Turkey , is a transcontinental country , located mostly on Anatolia in  पश्चिमी एशिया और on ईस्ट thrace  in Southeastern Europe .
Turkey is  bordered by आठ देशों : बुल्गारिया  to the northwest ; Greece to the west ; Georgia to the northeast ; Armenia , Iran and the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan to the east ; and Iraq and Syria to the southeast .
The Mediterranean Sea is to the south ; the Aegean  समुद्र is to the वेस्ट ; और  the Black Sea is to the north .
The Sea of Marmara , the Bosphorus and the  dardanelles ( जिससे  together form the Turkish Straits ) demarcate the boundary between Thrace and Anatolia ; they also separate Europe and Asia .
Turkey 's location at the crossroads of Europe and Asia makes it a  देश of significant  geostrategic importance .
The country 's official language is Turkish , a Turkic language , which is spoken by approximately 85 %  of the जनसांख्यिकी as माँ जीभ  .
The most numerous ethnic  समूह is the turks , जो constitute  between 70 % and 75 % of the population according to The World Factbook .
Kurds are the largest ethnic minority and ,  according to the वही सोर्स , क्रमांक around 18 % of the जनसांख्यिकी  while other ethnic minorities are estimated to be at 7–12 % .
The  विशाल बहुमत  of the population is Muslim .
The area now called Turkey has  महरूम inhabited चूंकि  the Paleolithic , including various Ancient Anatolian civilizations and Thracian peoples .
After Alexander the Great 's conquest  , the क्षेत्रफल थी hellenized , जिससे जारी साथ  the Roman rule and the transition into the Byzantine Empire .
The Seljuk Turks began migrating into the area in the 11th century , starting the process of Turkification , which was greatly accelerated by the  सलजूक़ विजय over  the Byzantines at the Battle of Manzikert in 1071 .
The Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm ruled Anatolia until the Mongol invasion in 1243 , upon which it  disintegrated into अनेक छोटी तुर्की beyliks  .
Starting from the late 13th century , the Ottoman beylik united Anatolia and created an empire  encompassing much of southeastern यूरोपीय , पश्चिमी  Asia and North Africa .
After the Ottoman Empire collapsed following its defeat in World War  i , भाग of it यहूद occupied by the  victorious Allies .
A cadre of young military officers , led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and his colleagues , organized a successful resistance to the Allies ; in 1923 they established the modern Republic of Turkey , with  अतातुर्क as इसके पहला  president .
Turkey is a democratic , secular ,  एकात्मक , संवैधानिक गणतंत्र  with a diverse cultural heritage .
Turkey has become increasingly integrated with the West  through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे  as the Council of Europe , NATO , OECD , OSCE and the G-20 major economies .
Turkey began full membership negotiations with the  यूरोपीय संघ in 2005 , having महरूम an संबद्ध सदस्य  of the European Economic Community since 1963 and having joined the EU Customs Union in 1995 .
Turkey has also fostered close cultural , political and economic relations with the Middle East , Caucasus , the Turkic states of Central Asia and the African countries  through सदस्यता in संगठनों ऐसे as the turkic  Council , Joint Administration of Turkic Arts and Culture , Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and the Economic Cooperation Organisation .
Turkey 's growing economy and diplomatic initiatives have led to  इसके मान्यता as a क्षेत्रीय शक्ति  .
Turkey is the world 's 17th largest economy by  नाममात्र जीडीपी और the 16th  largest by purchasing power parity .
Caryn Elaine Johnson , best known as  whoopi गोल्डबर्ग ( , ( born नवम्बर 13 , 1955 ) is an अमरीकी  comedienne , actress , singer-songwriter , political activist , author and talk show host .
Goldberg made her film debut in The Color Purple ( 1985 ) , playing Celie , a mistreated black  स्त्री in the गहन दक्षिण  .
She received a nomination  लिये the अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन  Actress and won her first Golden Globe Award for her role in the film .
In 1990 , she played Oda Mae Brown , a wacky psychic helping a slain man (  पैट्रिक swayze ) सहेजें  his lover ( Demi Moore ) in the blockbuster Ghost .
This performance won her a second Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress ; this made Goldberg only the second black woman in the history of the Academy Awards to win  an एक्टिंग oscar—the पहला होने हैटी mcdaniel जो जीती लिये गए साथ the  Wind in 1939 .
Notable  बाद films शामिल सिस्टर अधिनियम और  Sister Act 2 , The Player , Made in America , How Stella Got Her Groove Back , Girl , Interrupted and Rat Race .
She is also acclaimed for her roles as the bartender Guinan in Star Trek : The Next Generation , as Terry Doolittle in Jumpin ' Jack Flash , and as  कार्मेन tibideaux in ग्ली , as खूब as the आवाज़ of shenzi the  hyena in The Lion King .
गोल्डबर्ग रै  been nominated for 13 Emmy Awards for her work in television .
She was co-producer of the popular  खेल दिखाएँ हॉलीवुड वर्गों इससे  1998 to 2004 .
She has been the  मॉडरेटर of the दिन  talk show The View since 2007 .
Goldberg has a Grammy , two Daytime Emmys , two Golden Globes , a Tony ( for production  , नहीं एक्टिंग ) , और an  Oscar .
in जोड , गोल्डबर्ग रै a अंग्रेजों अकादमी फिल्मी पुरस्कार , चार लोगों 's चुनाव पुरस्कार , और रै महरूम सम्मानित साथ a स्टार on the हॉलीवुड चलना of  Fame .
She is  एक of the  few entertainers who have won an Emmy , Grammy , Oscar , and Tony Award .
Augusta is a consolidated city in the U.S. state of Georgia ,  स्तिथ at the पतन लकीर of the savannah नदी , at the सिर of इसके navigable  portion .
as of the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी , the  Augusta– Richmond County population was 195,844 not counting the unconsolidated cities of Hephzibah and Blythe .
augusta is the प्रिंसिपल नगर of the augusta – रिचमंड  County Metropolitan Statistical Area , which as of 2010 had an estimated population of 556,877 , making it both the second-largest city and the second-largest metro area in the state after Atlanta .
It is the  116th-largest  city in the United States .
Internationally , Augusta is best known for  होस्टिंग the मास्टर्स टूर्नामेंट  in golf each spring .
A CD-ROM  ( ) is a pre-pressed  compact disc which contains data .
The name is an  एक्रोनिम जिससे स्टैंड लिये ``  Compact Disc Read-only memory `` .
कंप्यूटर can  read CD-ROMs , but can not write on them .
CD-ROMs  हैं popularly प्रयुक्त to वितरित कंप्यूटर तन्त्र  , including video games and multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced CDs , hold  दोनो कंप्यूटर आंकड़ा  and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the technical  मानक कि defines  the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and Philips  , थी the पहला एक्सटेंशन of कॉम्पैक्ट डिस्क  Digital Audio .
It adapted the  स्वरूप to थाम  any form of data .
The Chicago Blackhawks ( spelled as Black Hawks before 1986 , and known  colloquially as the चीलों ) हैं a पेशेवर बर्फ हॉकी टोली  based in Chicago , Illinois .
वे हैं सदस्यों of the सेंट्रल प्रभाग of the पश्चिमी  Conference of the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
They  have जीती चार स्टेनली  Cup championships since their founding in 1926 , most recently in 2009–10 .
The Blackhawks are one of the Original Six NHL teams , along with the Detroit Red Wings , Montreal  canadiens , टोरंटो मेपल  Leafs , Boston Bruins and New York Rangers .
चूंकि the ब्लैकहॉक्स  have played their home games at the United Center after having spent 65 years playing at Chicago Stadium .
Lent  याजकों carrying आउट a गली  procession during Holy Week .
The violet color is often  संबद्ध साथ penance  and detachment .
Similar  ईसाई penitential अभ्यास is देखी in अन्य कैथोलिक  countries , sometimes associated with mortification of the flesh .
Granada ,  निकारागुआ  .
Lent (  लैटिन : quadragesima ) is  a solemn observance in the liturgical year of many Christian denominations , lasting for a period of approximately six weeks leading up to Easter Sunday .
In the general Latin-rite and most Western denominations Lent is taken to run from Ash Wednesday to Maundy Thursday (  पावन गुरुवार ) morning  or to Easter Eve .
In the Catholic Church , Lent lasts until Holy Thursday , while other  denominations चलाएं जबतक ईस्टर  Eve .
The  परंपरागत purpose of lent is the तैयारी  of the believer through prayer , penance , repentance , almsgiving , and self-denial .
Its institutional purpose is heightened in the annual commemoration of Holy Week , marking the death , burial and resurrection of Jesus , which recalls the events of the Bible when Jesus is crucified on Good Friday , which then culminates in the celebration on Easter Sunday of  the क़यामत of  Jesus Christ .
During Lent , many of the faithful commit to fasting or giving  up निश्चित प्रकार of luxuries  as a form of penitence .
The Stations of the Cross , a devotional commemoration of Christ 's carrying the Cross and  of उसके निष्पादन , हैं प्रायः  observed .
Many Roman Catholic and some Protestant churches remove flowers from their  altars , जबकि crucifixes , धार्मिक मूर्तियाँ , और अन्य विस्तृत धार्मिक प्रतीकों हैं प्रायः रहमत in  violet fabrics in solemn observance of the event .
In certain pious Catholic countries , some adherents mark the  ऋतु साथ the परंपरागत abstention  from the consumption of meat .
In some countries , grand religious processions and cultural customs are observed , and the faithful attempt to visit  सात चर्च दौरान पावन सप्ताह in सम्मान of यीशु मसीह heading to माउंट कलवारी  .
Lent is traditionally described as  स्थायी लिये चालीस दिनों , in commemoration of the  forty days which , according to the Gospels of Matthew , Mark and Luke , Jesus spent fasting in the desert before the beginning of his public ministry , where he endured temptation by the Devil .
However , different  ईसाई denominations  calculate the forty days of Lent differently .
In most Western traditions the Sundays are not counted as part of  lent ; यूँ the काल इससे राख  Wednesday until Easter consists of 40 days when the Sundays are excluded .
However in the Roman Catholic Church Lent is now taken to end on Holy Thursday rather than Easter  संध्या , और hence lasts 38 दिनों excluding sundays  , or 44 days in total .
This event , along with its pious  कस्टम हैं observed by catholics  , Lutherans , Methodists , Presbyterians , and Anglicans .
स्थान  of Chernobyl nuclear power plant
The abandoned  नगर of pripyat साथ  Chernobyl plant in the distance
abandoned  housing blocks in Pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster ( , Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear  दुर्घटना कि occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl  Nuclear Power Plant in Ukraine ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ) , which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and fire released large quantities of radioactive particles into the atmosphere , which spread over much of  the  western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history , and is one of only two  वर्गीकृत as a स्तर 7 इवेंट on the अंतरराष्ट्रीय नाभिकीय इवेंट स्केल ( the अन्य  being the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the contamination and avert a greater catastrophe ultimately involved  over 500,000 मजदूर और लागत an अनुमानित 18 अरब rubles  .
The official Soviet  casualty गिनती of 31 मौतों रै महरूम विवादित , और  long-term effects such as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for .
In grammar , a subject complement is a predicative expression that follows a linking verb ( copula ) and that complements ( completes ) the  विषय of the वाक्य by either ( 1 ) renaming it or ( 2 ) describing  it .
In the former case , a renaming noun phrase such as a noun or pronoun is  पुकारा a predicative  nominal .
An adjective following  the copula और describing  the subject is called a predicative adjective .
In  either मामला the predicative  complement in effect mirrors the subject .
Subject complements are used with a small class of verbs called linking verbs or copula  , of जिससे be is the सबसे  common .
Since copula are  stative क्रियाएँ  , subject complements are not affected by any action of the verb .
Subject  complements हैं typically नहीं  clause arguments , nor are they clause adjuncts .
Throughout the fifty-five year history of  the ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , अनेक  significant records have been set .
This page only includes the competitive  पुरस्कार जीती by विभिन्न कलाकारों  .
This does not include the various special awards that are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences  ऐसे as आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार , trustees पुरस्कार , तकनीकी पुरस्कार  or Legend Awards .
The page however does include other non-performance  सम्बन्धित grammys  ( known as the Craft & Production Fields ) that may have been presented to the artist ( s ) .
मार्शल ब्रूस mathers iii ( born अक्तूबर 17 , 1972 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके  stage name Eminem ( stylized as EMINƎM ) and by his alter ego Slim Shady , is an American rapper , record producer , songwriter and actor .
Eminem , along with his solo career , is a member of his group D12 , and also one half of the hip hop  duo ख़राब meets दुष्ट , साथ रॉयस da 5'9 ''  .
Eminem is one  of the best-selling कलाकारों  in the world and is the best-selling artist of the 2000s .
He has been listed and ranked as one of the greatest artists of all time by many magazines , including Rolling Stone magazine which ranked him  82nd on इसके सूची  of The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
The  वही पत्रिका घोषित  him The King of Hip Hop .
Including his work with D12 and Bad Meets  दुष्ट , एमिनेम रै हासिल टेन number-one एल्बम  on the Billboard 200 .
He has sold more than 100 million records  विश्वव्यापी , सहित  42 million tracks and 49.1 million albums in the United States .
As an underground rapper Eminem  released  his debut solo album , Infinite in 1996 .
The album was a critical and  वाणिज्यिक विफलता  .
He gained mainstream popularity in 1999 after the release of his  major-label डेब्यू एल्बम the पतला छायादार  LP .
The LP  भी अर्जित एमिनेम उसके  first Grammy Award for Best Rap Album .
His next two records The Marshall Mathers LP , and The Eminem Show , also won Best Rap Album Grammy Awards , making Eminem the first artist to  जीत बेहतरीन रैप एल्बम लिये तीन लगातार  LPs .
This was followed by another studio  रिलीज in 2004  titled Encore .
Eminem then went on hiatus after  touring in 2005  .
he released उसके  first album in five years titled Relapse , on May 15 , 2009 .
In 2010 ,  एमिनेम released उसके  seventh studio album Recovery .
Recovery was an international success and was named the best selling album of 2010 worldwide , joining The  एमिनेम दिखाएँ , जिससे थी the बेहतरीन विक्रेता of 2002  .
Eminem won Grammy Awards for both Relapse and Recovery , giving  उसे a कुल of 13  Grammys in his career .
Eminem has opened other ventures , including his own record label  छायादार रिकॉर्ड साथ उसके मैनेजर  Paul Rosenberg .
He also has  उसके अपना रेडियो चैनल  , Shade 45 on Sirius XM Radio .
Eminem began an acting career in 2002 , when he starred in  the हिप हॉप नाटक  film 8 Mile .
He won the  अकादमी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन असली  Song , becoming the first rap artist ever to win the award .
He has also made cameo appearances in The Wash ( 2001 ) ,  मजेदार  People ( 2009 ) and the television series Entourage .
The acre is a unit of area used in the imperial  और u.S. प्रथागत  systems .
An acre is about 40 % of a  हेक्टेयर – थोड़ा छोटी than an  American football field .
The acre is no longer commonly used , although a few notable exceptions include the United States , Australia , Burma and the United Kingdom ( as of 2010 , the acre is no  longer officially  used in the United Kingdom , though is still used in real estate descriptions ) .
It is still used , to  कुछ extent ,  in Canada .
The international symbol of the acre is ac , and  is पारिभाषित as 1/640  of a square mile .
The  सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त एकड़  today is the international acre .
In the United States both the international acre  और the थोड़ा अलग  US survey acre are in use .
The  सबसे आम उपयोग of  the acre is to measure tracts of land .
One international acre  is पारिभाषित as 4046.8564224  square metres .
दौरान the मध्य आयु , an एकड़ थी the राशि of  land that could be plowed in one day with a yoke of oxen .
Antoine Lavoisier 's discovery of the Law of Conservation of Mass  led to अनेक नई  findings in the 19th century .
Joseph Proust 's  विधि of definite proportions और जॉन  Dalton 's atomic theory branched from the discoveries of Antoine Lavoisier .
Lavoisier 's  quantitative प्रयोग नाज़िल  that combustion involved oxygen rather than what was previously thought to be phlogiston .
The law of conservation of mass , or principle of mass conservation , states that for any system closed to all transfers of  पदार्थ और उर्जा ( दोनो of जिससे have द्रव्यमान ) , the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली जरूर  remain constant over time , as system mass can not change quantity if it is not added or removed .
Hence , the quantity of mass is ``  conserved '' over  time .
The law implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed , although it may be rearranged in space , or the entities associated with it may be changed in form , as for example when light or physical work is transformed into particles that contribute the same mass to the system as the light or  work had  contributed .
The law implies ( requires ) that during any chemical reaction ,  नाभिकीय प्रतिक्रिया , or रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय in an पृथक प्रणाली  , the mass of the reactants or starting material must equal the mass of the products .
The concept of mass conservation is widely used in many fields such as chemistry , mechanics ,  और द्रव डायनामिक्स  .
Historically ,  द्रव्यमान संरक्षण थी खोजा in रासायनिक प्रतिक्रियाएँ by एंटोनी लाव्वाज़्ये  in the late 18th century , and was of crucial importance in the progress from alchemy to the modern natural science of chemistry .
The closely related concept of matter conservation was found to hold good in chemistry to such high approximation that it failed only for the high energies treated by  the बाद refinements of आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त , लकिन वरना remains  useful and sufficiently accurate for most chemical calculations , even in modern practice .
In special relativity , needed for accuracy when large energy transfers between systems is involved , the difference between thermodynamically closed and isolated systems becomes important , since conservation of  द्रव्यमान is सख्ती और perfectly upheld तभी लिये so-called पृथक प्रणालियों , i.e . those  completely isolated from all exchanges with the environment .
In this circumstance , the mass-energy equivalence theorem states that mass conservation is  समतुल्य to कुल उर्जा संरक्षण ,  which is the first law of thermodynamics .
By contrast ,  लिये a thermodynamically बंद प्रणाली ( i.e. , एक जिससे is बंद to  exchanges of matter , but open to exchanges of non-material energy , such as heat and work , with the surroundings ) mass is ( usually ) only approximately conserved .
The  इनपुट or आउटपुट of non-material उर्जा जरूर बदलें the द्रव्यमान of the प्रणाली in आपेक्षिकता सिद्धान्त , हालांकि the बदलें is प्रायः  small , since relatively large amounts of such energy ( by comparison with ordinary experience ) carry only a small amount of mass ( again by ordinary standards of measurement ) .
In special relativity , mass is not converted to energy , since energy in all of its forms always retains its equivalent amount of mass throughout any transformation or  translocation into , or आउट of , a प्रणाली  .
however , निश्चित प्रकार of पदार्थ (  a different concept ) may be converted to energy , so long as the mass of the system is unchanged in the process .
However , if such energy is removed from systems , they must lose the  द्रव्यमान कि is संबद्ध साथ  it .
In general relativity , mass ( and energy  ) संरक्षण in expanding आयतन of स्पेस is a जटिल  concept , subject to different definitions , and neither mass nor energy is as strictly and simply conserved as is the case in special relativity and in Minkowski space .
For a  चर्चा ,  see mass in general relativity .
A pig is any of the  पशु in the  genus Sus , within the Suidae family of even-toed ungulates .
Pigs include the  घरेलू सुअर , इसके  ancestor the wild boar , and several other wild relatives .
Young and  छोटी सूअर  are known as piglets .
Pigs are  omnivores  and are highly social and intelligent animals .
8-inch ,  -inch , and -inch floppy disks
8-inch  , -inch ( पूरा  height ) , and -inch drives
A 3.5-inch diskette 's ``  फ्लॉपी '' चुम्बकीय  material , removed from its housing
A floppy disk , or diskette , is a disk storage medium composed of  a डिस्क of पतला और लचीली चुम्बकीय भंडार मीडियम , sealed in a आयताकार प्लास्टिक वाहक  lined with fabric that removes dust particles .
They  हैं पढ़ा और लिखा  by a floppy disk drive ( FDD ) .
Floppy disks , initially as media and later in and 3.5-inch ( 90 mm ) sizes , were a ubiquitous form of data storage and exchange from the mid-1970s well into the  पहला दशक of the 21st सदी  .
By 2010 , computer motherboards were  rarely manufactured साथ फ्लॉपी ड्राइव support ; `` floppies could be प्रयुक्त as an  external USB drive , but `` , 8 `` , and non-standard drives could only be handled by old equipment .
While floppy disk drives still have some limited uses , especially with legacy industrial computer equipment , they have been superseded by data storage methods with much greater capacity , such as USB flash drives , portable external hard  डिस्क ड्राइव , ऑप्टिकल discs , मेमोरी ताश , और कंप्यूटर संजाल  .
An  एनिमेटेड आरेख  of a cutter
In  बेसबॉल , a कटर , or काटें fastball ,  is a type of fastball which breaks slightly toward the pitcher 's glove side as it reaches home plate .
This pitch is somewhere between a slider and a fastball , as it is usually thrown  तेज़ than a स्लाइडर लकिन साथ अधिक  motion than a typical fastball .
Some pitchers use a cutter as a way to  prevent hitters  from expecting their regular fastballs .
A common technique used to throw a cutter is to  उपयोग a four-seam fastball पकड़ साथ the बेसबॉल नियत थोड़ा  off center in the hand .
When a batter is able to hit a  कटर पिच , it प्रायः परिणाम  in soft contact and an easy out , due to the pitch 's movement keeping the ball away from the bat 's sweet spot .
The  कटर is typically 2–5 किमी  slower than a pitcher 's four-seam fastball .
In 2010 , the average pitch classified as a cutter by PITCHf/x thrown by a right-handed pitcher was 88.6 mph ; the average four-seamer  थी 92.1  mph .
`` What It Takes '' is a power  ballad  by American hard rock band Aerosmith .
it थी लिखा by स्टीवन  Tyler , Joe Perry , and Desmond Child .
It was released in 1990 as the third single from Aerosmith 's critically and commercially  कामयाब 1989 एल्बम पंप  .
In the video The Making of Pump , A & R man  जॉन kalodner वर्णित  the song as `` a masterpiece '' .
During live performances , Tyler sings  the पहला श्लोक a cappella  and belts out one of his signature screams right before the chorus .
The album version  of the सोंग is followed by  an untitled hidden track .
Head of Odysseus from a Greek 2nd century BC marble group representing Odysseus blinding Polyphemus , found at the villa of Tiberius at  sperlonga
Detail of an ancient  रोमन मोज़ेक of ulysses in ट्यूनीशिया
Odysseus ( or ; Greek : , ) ,  भी ज्ञात by the रोमन नाम ulysses ( ; ) , थी a legendary यूनानी  king of Ithaca and a hero of Homer 's epic poem the Odyssey .
Odysseus also plays a key role in Homer 's Iliad and other  works in कि वही एपिक  Cycle .
Husband of Penelope , father of Telemachus , and son of Laërtes ( or Sisyphus ) and Anticlea , Odysseus is renowned for his brilliance , guile , and versatility ( polytropos ) , and is hence known  by the epithet odysseus the cunning  ( mētis , or `` cunning intelligence `` ) .
He is most famous for the ten eventful years he took to  वापसी घर बाद  the decade-long Trojan War and his famous Trojan Horse ploy to capture the city of Troy .
Erie is a Statutory Town  in बोल्डर और वेल्ड काउंटी  in the U.S. state of Colorado .
The population according to the  2010 जनसांख्यिकी is 18,135  and was recorded as 6,291 at the 2000 census .
The Town of Erie is located just west of I-25  लिये आसान अभिगम  to I-70 , Denver International Airport and Colorado 's entire Front Range .
Erie 's Planning Area  spans 48 वर्गाकार मील , extending इससे  the north side of State Highway 52 south to State Highway 7 , and between US 287 on the west and Interstate 25 to the east .
Erie is approximately 35 minutes from Denver International Airport , 25  मिनट्स to डेनवर और 20 मिनट्स  from Boulder .
The Board of Trustees serves as the legislative  और शासी देह of the कस्बा of erie  and is responsible for establishing Town policies and goals .
The Board has the authority to adopt laws , ordinances and resolutions as needed to conduct the business of the Town , and by  अध्यादेश may डालें into अनुबंध or intergovernmental समझौतों to furnish , प्राप्त  services or to provide for cooperative service delivery .
Appointed by and serving at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees , the Town Administrator is the chief operating and  प्रशासनिक अधिकारी of the कस्बा और is जिम्मेदार लिये providing पेशेवर नेतृत्व  in the administration and execution of policies and objectives formulated by the Board .
The mission of the Erie Police Department is to communicate and work with the community  to maintain a सुरक्षित पर्यावरण ,  prevent crime and enforce the law , while protecting the rights of all .
Erie Municipal Airport ( EIK ) is owned and operated by the Town of Erie and is  रणनीतिक स्तिथ in the denver-boulder महानगर क्षेत्रफल on कोलोराडो  Highway 7 , a little over three miles west of Interstate 25 .
The main runway is  कंक्रीट प्रशस्त और 4,700  feet long .
The is a home  वीडियो खेल कंसोल उत्पादित  by Sony Computer Entertainment .
It is the successor to the PlayStation 2  , as भाग of the प्लेस्टेशन  series .
The PlayStation 3 competes with  microsoft 's एक्सबॉक्स 360 और निन्टेंडो  's Wii as part of the seventh generation of video game consoles .
It was first released on November 11 , 2006 , in Japan , with international markets following shortly  thereafter  .
The console was  पहला officially घोषित  at E3 2005 .
Originally set for a spring  2006 रिलीज तिथि , it थी  delayed several times until finally hitting stores at the end of the year .
It was the first and currently only console  to उपयोग blu-ray  Disc as its primary storage medium .
Major features of the console include its unified online gaming service , the PlayStation Network , and its connectivity with the PlayStation Portable and  प्लेस्टेशन वीटा  , In September 2009 the updated PlayStation 3 Slim , was released .
This Slim is lighter and thinner than the original version , although it lacks PlayStation 2 backwards compatibility ( removed on later original models ) , but notably featured a  re-designed लोगो और विपणन डिज़ाइन  .
As of November 4 , 2012 , 70 million PlayStation 3s have  महरूम बेची विश्वव्यापी  .
Its  successor  , PlayStation 4 , is set for a Q4 2013 release .
Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dalí i Domènech , 1st Marqués de Dalí  de pubol  ( May 11 , 1904January 23 , 1989 ) , known as Salvador Dalí ( ) , was a prominent Spanish surrealist painter born in Figueres , Spain .
Dalí  थी a skilled draftsman  , best known for the striking and bizarre images in his surrealist work .
उसके painterly  skills are often attributed to the influence of Renaissance masters .
His best-known work , The  हठ  of Memory , was completed in 1931 .
Dalí 's expansive artistic repertoire included film , sculpture , and photography , in  सहयोग साथ a दायरा of कलाकारों  in a variety of media .
Dalí attributed his `` love  of सबकुछ कि is gilded और excessive , my  passion for luxury and my love of oriental clothes '' to a self-styled `` Arab lineage '' , claiming that his ancestors were descended from the Moors .
Dalí was highly imaginative , and also enjoyed  indulging in असामान्य और वैभवशाली बर्ताव  .
उसके eccentric manner और  attention-grabbing public actions sometimes drew more attention than his artwork , to the dismay of those who held his work in high esteem , and to the irritation of his critics .
पारस प्लेटो  by Silanion
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture , using methods that are primarily analytical , critical , or speculative , and having a significant historical element , as distinguished from the mainly  अनुभवजन्य approaches of the प्राकृतिक sciences  .
The humanities  शामिल प्राचीन और आधुनिक भाषाएं  , literature , philosophy , religion , and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre .
The humanities  कि हैं भी regarded as सोशल sciences  include history , anthropology , area studies , communication studies , cultural studies , law , economics and linguistics .
विद्वानों working in the मानवता  are sometimes described as `` humanists '' .
however , कि पद भी describes the philosophical  position of humanism , which some `` antihumanist `` scholars in the humanities reject .
Some secondary schools offer humanities classes , usually consisting of English literature , global  अध्ययन , और आर्ट  .
Human disciplines like history , cultural anthropology and psychoanalysis study subject  matters to जिससे the प्रायोगिक विधि  does not apply , and they have access instead to the comparative method and comparative research .
The 2005 Blue Room  क्रिसमस पेड़
The White House Christmas Tree ,  भी ज्ञात as the ब्लू रूम क्रिसमस पेड़ , is the आधिकारिक अंदर  Christmas tree at the residence of the President of the United States , the White House .
The first indoor Christmas tree was installed in the White House sometime in the 19th century ( there are varying claims as to the exact year ) and since 1961 the  पेड़ रै था a प्रसंग मोटिफ  at the discretion of the First Lady of the United States .
The President of the United States of America ( POTUS ) is the  सिर of राज्य  and head of government of the United States .
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government  और is the commander-in-chief of the  United States Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the  निष्पादन of संघीय विधि , alongside the जिम्मेदारी of  appointing federal executive , diplomatic , regulatory , and judicial officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant  संघीय pardons और reprieves , और to convene और adjourn  either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States , the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president , despite possessing no formal legislative  शक्तियां परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally passed बिल्स ,  is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States .
The  अध्यक्ष is अक्सर वर्णित  as the most powerful person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by the  लोगों through the चुनावी  College to a four-year term , and is one of only two nationally elected federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States .
The Twenty-second Amendment  ,  adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone from ever being elected to the presidency for a third full term .
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had served as  अध्यक्ष ,  or acting president , for more than two years of another person 's term as president .
In all , 43 individuals have served  55 four-year  terms .
On January 20 , 2009 , Barack Obama  became the 44th और वर्तमान  president .
On November 6  , 2012 , he थी re-elected और is अनुसूचित  to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Senses are physiological capacities  of जीवों कि provide  data for perception .
The senses and their operation , classification , and  सिद्धान्त हैं अतिव्यापी विषय पढ़ाई by a किस्में of फ़ील्ड , सबसे  notably neuroscience , cognitive psychology ( or cognitive science ) , and philosophy of perception .
The nervous system has a specific  संवेदी प्रणाली or अंग , समर्पित to  each sense .
इंसानो have  a multitude of senses .
Sight ( ophthalmoception ) , hearing ( audioception ) , taste ( gustaoception ) , smell ( olfacoception or olfacception ) , and touch  ( tactioception ) हैं  the five traditionally recognized .
While the ability to detect other stimuli beyond those governed by the traditional senses exists , including temperature ( thermoception ) , kinesthetic sense ( proprioception ) , pain ( nociception ) , balance ( equilibrioception ) ,  त्वरण ( kinesthesioception ) , और विभिन्न आतंरिक stimuli  ( e.g . the different chemoreceptors for detecting salt and carbon dioxide concentrations in the blood ) , only a small number of these can safely be classified as separate senses in and of themselves .
What constitutes a sense is a matter of some debate ,  अग्रणी to कठिनाइयों in धमक  what exactly a sense is .
पशु भी have receptors  to sense the world around them , with degrees of capability varying greatly between species .
Humans have a comparatively weak sense of smell , while some animals may lack one or more of  the परंपरागत पाँच होश  .
Some  पशु may भी सेवन  and interpret sensory stimuli in very different ways .
Some  प्रजाति of पशु हैं समर्थ  to sense the world in a way that humans can not , with some species able to sense electrical and magnetic fields , and detect water pressure and currents .
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing arthropods that have eight  टाँगे और  chelicerae with fangs that inject venom .
They are the largest order of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity  among सब अन्य समूह of जीवों  .
Spiders are found worldwide on every  महाद्वीप मगर लिये अंटार्कटिक , और have become स्थापित  in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at  तनिक 43,678 मकड़ी प्रजाति , और 109 परिवारों have महरूम अंकित by taxonomists ; however , वहीँ रै महरूम भ्रम भीतर the  scientific community as to how all these families should be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other arthropods  in कि the usual  body segments are fused into two tagmata , the cephalothorax and abdomen , and joined by a small , cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike insects , spiders do  नहीं have antennae  .
In all except the most primitive group , the Mesothelae , spiders have the most centralized nervous systems of all arthropods , as all their ganglia are  fused into एक द्रव्यमान  in the cephalothorax .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have no extensor muscles in  उनके limbs और बजाय  extend them by hydraulic pressure .
Their abdomens bear appendages that have been modified into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands  भीतर उनके  abdomen .
मकड़ी webs vary widely  in size , shape and the amount of sticky thread used .
It now appears that the spiral orb  वेब may be एक of the earliest फ़ॉर्म , और मकड़ियों कि उपज उलझे cobwebs  are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared in the Devonian period about , but these  पशु जाहिर lacked  spinnerets .
True spiders have been found  in carboniferous रॉक्स  from , and are very similar to the most primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups of modern spiders , Mygalomorphae and Araneomorphae , first appeared  in the triassic  period , before .
A herbivorous  प्रजाति , bagheera kiplingi , थी वर्णित in  2008 , but all other known species are predators , mostly preying on insects and on other spiders , although a few large species also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide  दायरा of रणनीति to कैप्चर  prey : trapping it in sticky webs , lassoing it with sticky bolas , mimicking the prey to avoid detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing  कंपन , लकिन the क्रियाशील hunters have अधि  vision , and hunters of the genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones .
Spiders '  गुस्ताखी हैं too सीमित to लो solids , और वे liquidize  their food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps , as they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders identify  themselves by a किस्में of जटिल  courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the females .
Males of most species  जीवित a few matings  , limited mainly by their short life spans .
Females  बुनते रेशा egg-cases , प्रत्येक  of which may contain hundreds of eggs .
Females of many  प्रजाति परवाह लिये उनके यंग , लिये उदाहरण  by carrying them around or by sharing food with them .
A minority of species are social , building  सांप्रदायिक webs कि may हाउस anywhere इससे  a few to 50,000 individuals .
Social behavior ranges from  precarious toleration ,  as in the widow spiders , to co-operative hunting and food-sharing .
Although most spiders live for at most two years ,  tarantulas और अन्य mygalomorph मकड़ियों can  live up to 25 years in captivity .
While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans , scientists are now researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as  non-polluting  pesticides .
Spider silk provides a combination of lightness , strength and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials , and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals  और पौधे to देखिए if ये  can be used as silk factories .
As a result of their wide range of behaviors , spiders have become common symbols in art and  mythology symbolizing विभिन्न combinations of सब्र  , cruelty and creative powers .
Grey 's Anatomy is an American television medical drama that  premiered on the अमरीकी  Broadcasting Company ( ABC ) , as a mid-season replacement on March 27 , 2005 .
The series has aired nine seasons , and focuses on the fictional lives of surgical interns and residents as they gradually  evolve into seasoned डॉक्टर , जबकि trying to  maintain personal lives .
the दिखाएँ 's आधार originated साथ शोंडा rhimes , जो serves as  an executive producer , along with Betsy Beers , Mark Gordon , Krista Vernoff , Rob Corn , Mark Wilding , and Allan Heinberg .
The series was created to be racially diverse , utilizing a color-blind  ढलाई तकनीक  .
It is  primarily फिल्माया in लॉस  Angeles , California .
The series ' protagonist is Dr. Meredith Grey ( Ellen Pompeo ) , who originally is accepted into  the रेसिडेंसी कार्यक्रम at the fictional  Seattle Grace Hospital .
Meredith is assigned to work under Dr. Miranda Bailey ( Chandra Wilson ) , along with Dr. Cristina Yang ( Sandra Oh ) , Dr. George O'Malley ( T. R. Knight ) , Dr.  izzie स्टीवंस ( कैथरीन heigl ) , और dr. एलेक्स karev ( जस्टिन  Chambers ) .
Following O'Malley 's death and Stevens ' departure , the hospital 's merger with Mercy West brings in  dr. जैक्सन एवेरी ( जेसी  Williams ) and Dr. April Kepner ( Sarah Drew ) , in the sixth season .
The surgical wing is primarily supervised by Dr. Richard Webber ( James Pickens , Jr. ) , who is eventually replaced by Dr. Derek  गड़रिये ( पैट्रिक डेम्पसे ) , और बाद dr. ओवन हंट ( केविन  McKidd ) .
Dr. Preston Burke ( Isaiah Washington ) departs at the conclusion of the third season , and is replaced by Dr. Erica Hahn (  ब्रुक स्मिथ ) , जो पत्ते the दिखाएँ दौरान  the fifth season , and later Dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ) , who departs at the end of the eighth season .
Introduced in the second season is Dr.  एडीसन मोंटगोमरी ( केट वाल्श ) , जो पत्ते the दिखाएँ at the समाप्त  of the third season , in order to launch her own spin-off medical drama Private Practice .
Dr. Callie Torres ( Sara Ramirez ) and Dr. Mark Sloan ( Eric Dane ) also enter the  दिखाएँ in the दूसरी ऋतु , जबकि the latter मरता in the प्रीमियर  of the ninth season .
Meredith 's half-sister , Dr. Lexie Grey ( Chyler  leigh ) , appears  from season three and dies at the end of season eight .
Dr. Arizona Robbins ( Jessica Capshaw ) is given series regular  औकात at the शुरूआत  of the sixth season .
Grey 's Anatomy  is the highest-rated  drama in the key 18–49 demographic .
Previously among the overall  top-ten रेटेड  shows in the United States , Grey 's Anatomy has been well received by critics .
Considered an impact on culture , the series has received numerous  पुरस्कार , और रै भी महरूम  included in various critics ' top ten lists .
The show has produced several specials , as well as distributed all seasons to DVD , and  released a संग्रहण of merchandise  .
In 2012 , Grey 's Anatomy was named  the fifth-highest  revenue earning show , in terms of advertising per half-hour .
On May 11 , 2012 , the series was renewed for a ninth season ,  जिससे premiered on सितंबर 27 ,  2012 .
Schizophrenia ( or ) is a  दिमागी विकार characterized  by a breakdown of thought processes and by a deficit of typical emotional responses .
Common symptoms include auditory hallucinations , paranoid or bizarre delusions , or disorganized speech and thinking , and it is  accompanied  by significant social or occupational dysfunction .
The onset of symptoms typically occurs in young adulthood , with a global  आजीवन  prevalence of about 0.3–0.7 % .
Diagnosis is based on  observed बर्ताव और  the patient 's reported experiences .
Genetics , early environment , neurobiology , and psychological and social processes appear to be  महत्वपूर्ण contributory कारकों ;  some recreational and prescription drugs appear to cause or worsen symptoms .
Current research is focused on the  भूमिका of neurobiology , हालांकि  no single isolated organic cause has been found .
The many possible  combinations of लक्षण have  triggered debate about whether the diagnosis represents a single disorder or a number of discrete syndromes .
Despite the etymology of the term from the Greek roots skhizein ( σχίζειν , `` to split '' ) and phrēn , phren- ( φρήν , φρεν- ; ``  दिमाग '' ) , schizophrenia करता नहीं imply a `` विभाजित व्यक्तित्व '' , or `` अनेक व्यक्तित्व  disorder '' ( which is known these days as dissociative identity disorder ) —a condition with which it is often confused in public perception .
Rather , the term means a `` splitting of mental functions '' , because of the symptomatic  प्रस्तुतीकरण of  the illness .
The mainstay of treatment is antipsychotic medication , which primarily  दबा dopamine (  and sometimes serotonin ) receptor activity .
Psychotherapy and vocational and  सोशल पुनर्वास हैं  also important in treatment .
In more serious cases—where there is risk to self and others— involuntary hospitalization may be necessary , although hospital  stays हैं अभी shorter और कम  frequent than they once were .
The disorder is thought mainly to affect cognition , but it also usually contributes  to दीर्घकालिक समस्याएं साथ बर्ताव और जज्बात  .
People with schizophrenia are likely to have additional (   comorbid ) conditions , including major depression and anxiety disorders ; the lifetime occurrence of substance use disorder is almost 50 % .
Social problems , such as long-term  बेरोजगारी , गरीबी , और  homelessness are common .
The average life expectancy  of लोगों साथ the विकार is 12 to 15 सालो कम  than those without , the result of increased physical health problems and a higher suicide rate ( about 5 % ) .
पॉल लेस्ली snider ( अप्रैल 15 , 1951–august 14 , 1980 ) थी  the estranged husband and manager of Playboy model Dorothy Stratten , whom he murdered before killing himself the same day .
The Epic of Gilgamesh , an epic poem from Mesopotamia , is amongst the  earliest surviving  works of literature .
The literary history of  gilgamesh begins साथ पाँच स्वतंत्र  Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh ' ( Sumerian for Gilgamesh ) , king of Uruk .
Four of  ये यहूद प्रयुक्त as  source material for a combined epic in Akkadian .
This first combined epic , known as the `` Old  babylonian '' संस्करण , तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी  BC and is titled after its incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a few  fragments of it have  survived .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and bears the incipit Sha naqba īmuru ( `` He who Saw the  गहन  '' ) .
Fragments of approximately two thirds of this longer ,  twelve-tablet संस्करण  have been recovered .
Some of the best copies were discovered  in the पुस्तकालयों तबाह  of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers on a  दोस्ती between  Gilgamesh and Enkidu .
enkidu is a जंगली man निर्मित by the  gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract him from oppressing the people of Uruk .
Together , they journey   to the Cedar Mountain to defeat Humbaba , its monstrous guardian .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven ,  जिससे the देवी इश्तार भेजना to सजा  Gilgamesh for spurning her advances .
As a punishment for these actions , the gods sentence  enkidu  to death .
The second half of the epic  focuses on gilgamesh  's distress at Enkidu 's death , and his quest for immortality .
In order to learn the secret  of अनन्त जीवन , gilgamesh  undertakes a long and perilous journey .
He learns that `` The life  कि तुम  are seeking you will never find .
When  the देवताओं निर्मित  man they allotted to him death , but life they retained in their own keeping . ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic , and then  attributed to the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim  in the Akkadian version of the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death , because of his great building projects , and his account of what  utnapishtim बताई उसे happened दौरान the  flood .
The story has been translated into many different languages , and Gilgamesh has since become  adapted in works of लोकप्रिय  fiction .
A eukaryote ( or ) is an organism whose cells contain complex  structures enclosed भीतर  membranes .
Eukaryotes may more formally be referred to as the taxon Eukarya or  eukaryota .
The defining membrane-bound structure that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells is the nucleus , or nuclear  लिफाफा , भीतर जिससे the जेनेटिक सामग्री is carried  .
The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name , which comes  इससे the यूनानी  ( eu , `` good '' ) and ( karyon , `` nut '' or `` kernel '' ) .
Most eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles  ऐसे as mitochondria ,  chloroplasts and the Golgi apparatus .
All large complex  जीवों हैं eukaryotes , सहित  animals , plants and fungi .
The group also includes many unicellular  जीवों  .
Cell division in eukaryotes is different from that in  जीवों बगैर a केंद्रक  ( Prokaryote ) .
It involves separating the duplicated  गुणसूत्रों , through आंदोलनों  directed by microtubules .
There are two  प्रकार of प्रभाग  processes .
In mitosis , one  कोशिका divides to उपज दो  genetically identical cells .
In meiosis , which is required in sexual reproduction , one diploid cell ( having two instances of each chromosome , one from each parent ) undergoes recombination of each pair  of parental गुणसूत्रों , और तब दो चरण of कोशिका प्रभाग  , resulting in four haploid cells ( gametes ) .
Each gamete has just one complement of chromosomes , each a unique mix of  the सम्बन्धित जोड़ी of parental गुणसूत्रों  .
eukaryota appears to be monophyletic ,  and so makes up one of the three domains of life .
The two other domains , Bacteria  और आर्किया , हैं prokaryotes और have  none of the above features .
Eukaryotes represent a tiny minority of all living things ; even in a human  देह वहीँ हैं 10  times more microbes than human cells .
However , due to their much larger size their collective worldwide  बायोमास is अनुमानित at परिचय बराबर to कि of prokaryotes  .
They are considered to have first developed  लगभग 1.6–2.1 अरब सालो पहले  .
The use of Internet services or software with Internet access to defraud victims or to otherwise take advantage of them , for  उदाहरण by चोरी निजी सूचना ,  which can even lead to identity theft .
A very common  रूप of अंतरजाल धोखाधड़ी  is the distribution of rogue security software .
Internet services can be used to present fraudulent solicitations to prospective victims , to conduct fraudulent transactions , or to transmit the  proceeds of धोखाधड़ी to वित्तीय  institutions or to others connected with the scheme .
Internet fraud can occur in chat rooms ,  ईमेल , संदेश  boards , or on websites .
The International Security Assistance Force ( ISAF ) is a NATO -led security mission in Afghanistan that was established by the United Nations  सुरक्षा परिषद in दिसम्बर 2001 by रेज़ोल्यूशन 1386 , as  envisaged by the Bonn Agreement .
Its main purpose is to  ट्रैन the अफगान नेशनल सुरक्षा शक्तियां  ( ANSF ) and assist Afghanistan in rebuilding key government institutions but is also engaged in the 2001-present war with insurgent groups .
ISAF was initially charged with securing Kabul and surrounding areas from the Taliban ,  al qaeda और factional warlords , so as to allow लिये the स्थापना of  the Afghan Transitional Administration headed by Hamid Karzai .
In October 2003 , the UN Security Council authorized the expansion of the ISAF mission throughout Afghanistan , and ISAF subsequently  विस्तारित  the mission in four main stages over the whole of the country .
From 2006 to 2011 , ISAF had been involved in increasingly  अधिक intensive कॉम्बैट परिचालन  in southern and eastern Afghanistan .
Troop contributors include from the United States , United Kingdom , NATO  सदस्य  states and a number of other countries .
The intensity of the combat faced by  contributing राष्ट्र varies greatly , साथ the संयुक्त राज्य , संयुक्त किंगडम  , and Canada sustaining the majority of casualties in intensive combat operations , with other contributors sustaining significantly less .
As of early 2010 ,  वहीँ यहूद  at least 700 military bases inside Afghanistan but more were expected to be built in the coming years .
About 400 of  ये यहूद प्रयुक्त by  American‐led NATO forces and 300 by ANSF .
Cocaine ( benzoylmethylecgonine  ) ( इन ) is a crystalline tropane एल्कलॉएड कि is  obtained from the leaves of the coca plant .
The  नाम आता इससे ``  coca '' and the alkaloid suffix -ine , forming cocaine .
It is a stimulant , an appetite  suppressant , और a topical  anesthetic .
Biologically , cocaine acts as a  serotonin–norepinephrine–dopamine reuptake  inhibitor , also known as a triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ) .
It is addictive because of its  प्रभाव on the mesolimbic  reward pathway .
Unlike most molecules , cocaine has pockets with both high  hydrophilic और lipophilic दक्षता , violating  the rule of hydrophilic-lipophilic balance .
This causes it to cross the blood–brain barrier far better  than अन्य psychoactive रसायन  and may even induce blood-brain barrier breakdown .
It is illegal to possess , produce , or distribute cocaine  लिये non-medicinal और  non-government-sanctioned purposes in almost every country .
Whole beef tri-tip  rump , roasted मीडियम  rare
The  tri-tip is a काटें  of beef from the bottom sirloin primal cut .
It is a small triangular  मांसपेशी , प्रायः 1.5 to 2.5  lbs . ( 675 to 1,150g ) per side of beef .
The scientific name  of इस मांसपेशी is प्रदिश fasciae latae , inserted in the fascia lata ,  the connective tissue covering the quadriceps femoris , also called quadriceps extensor , a group of four muscles which in turn insert in the patella , or knee cap of the animal .
Willmar is a city in , and the county seat of , Kandiyohi County ,  मिनेसोटा , संयुक्त  States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 19,610 at the 2010 census .
Willmar has been  आबंटित  ZIP code 56201 by the United States Postal Service .
U.S . Routes 12 and 71 and Minnesota State  राजमार्गों 23 और 40 हैं  four of the main routes in the city .
The  स्पीकर of the संयुक्त राज्य  House of Representatives ( or Speaker of the House ) is the presiding officer of the chamber .
The office was established in 1789 by Article I ,  खण्ड 2 of the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , जिससे राज्य  in part , `` The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker ... ''
The current Speaker  is जॉन boehner , a रिपब्लिकन  who represents Ohio 's 8th congressional district .
The Constitution does  नहीं आवश्यकता कि the स्पीकर be a सदस्य  of Congress , but no non-member has ever been elected to the office .
The Speaker is  दूसरी in the संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय लकीर of  succession , after the Vice President and ahead of the President pro tempore of the U.S. Senate .
Unlike some Westminster system parliaments , in which the office of Speaker is considered non-partisan , in the United States the Speaker of the House  is a नेतृत्व स्थिति और the office-holder  actively works to set the majority party 's legislative agenda .
the स्पीकर प्रायः करता नहीं personally  preside over debates , instead delegating the duty to members of the House from the majority party .
Aside from duties relating to heading the House and the majority political party , the Speaker also  performs प्रशासनिक और  procedural functions , and represents his or her Congressional district .
A bicycle frame  is the प्रमुख घटक of a सायकिल  , on to which wheels and other components are fitted .
The modern and most common frame design for an upright bicycle is based on the safety bicycle , and  consists of दो त्रिकोण , a प्रमुख त्रिभुज और a युग्म पश्च त्रिभुज  .
This is known as the  डायमंड फ़्रेम  .
फ्रेम्स हैं जरूरी to  be strong , stiff and light , which they do by combining different materials and shapes .
`` Simple gravity  लोलक '' मॉडल assumes no  friction or air resistance .
An exemplar animation of a pendulum showing the velocity and  त्वरण  vectors
A pendulum is a weight  निलंबित इससे a so  that it can swing freely .
When a pendulum is displaced sideways from its resting  संतुलन स्थिति , it is  subject to a restoring force due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position .
When released , the restoring force combined with the pendulum 's mass causes it to  oscillate परिचय the संतुलन स्थिति , सुहाने वापस  and forth .
The time for one complete cycle , a left swing and a  सही झूले ,  is called the period .
A pendulum  swings साथ a विशिष्ट  period which depends ( mainly ) on its length .
From its  डिस्कवरी around 1602 by गैलीलियो गैलिली the नियमित  motion of pendulums was used for timekeeping , and was the world 's most accurate timekeeping technology until the 1930s .
Pendulums are used to regulate pendulum clocks , and are used in scientific instruments  ऐसे as accelerometers और seismometers  .
Historically they were used as gravimeters to measure the  त्वरण of गम्भीरता in geophysical सर्वेक्षण  , and even as a standard of length .
The word 'pendulum ' is new Latin , from the  लैटिन pendulus  , meaning 'hanging ' .
The simple gravity  लोलक is an idealized  mathematical model of a pendulum .
This is a weight ( or bob ) on the end of a massless cord suspended from a , without   friction .
When given an  आरंभिक धक्का , it होगा  swing back and forth at a constant amplitude .
Real pendulums are subject to friction and air drag , so  the आयाम  of their swings declines .
The First Battle of Bull Run , also known as First Manassas ( the name used  by confederate शक्तियां ) , थी लड़ा on जुलाई 21 , 1861 , in प्रिंस  William County , Virginia , near the city of Manassas .
it थी the पहला प्रमुख  land battle of the American Civil War .
Just months after the start of the war at Fort Sumter , the Northern public clamored for a march  विरूद्ध  the Confederate capital of Richmond , Virginia , which they expected to bring an early end to the rebellion .
Yielding to political pressure , Brig . Gen. Irvin McDowell led  उसके unseasoned संघ फौज आरपार सांड चलाएं विरूद्ध the  equally inexperienced Confederate Army of Brig . Gen. P. G. T. Beauregard camped near Manassas Junction .
McDowell 's ambitious plan for a surprise flank attack on  the confederate बाएँ थी poorly चलाया by उसके अधिकारियों  and men ; nevertheless , the Confederates , who had been planning to attack the Union left flank , found themselves at an initial disadvantage .
Confederate  सुदृढीकरण अंतर्गत ब्रिगेडियर . gen. जोसेफ E.  Johnston arrived from the Shenandoah Valley by railroad and the course of the battle quickly changed .
A brigade of Virginians  अंतर्गत a अपेक्षाकृत अनजान कर्नल इससे the वर्जिनिया सैन्य  Institute , Thomas J. Jackson , stood their ground and Jackson received his famous nickname , `` Stonewall Jackson '' .
The Confederates then launched a strong counterattack , and as the Union troops began withdrawing under fire ,  अनेक panicked और it turned into a rout as mcdowell 's मेन frantically  ran without order in the direction of Washington , D.C .
Both armies were sobered by the fierce fighting and many casualties , and realized the war was going to be much longer and bloodier than either had  anticipated  .
अंधड़  near Garajau , Madeira
Weather is the state of the atmosphere , to the degree that it is  hot or ठंडा , गीला or  dry , calm or stormy , clear or cloudy .
Most  मौसम phenomena occur in the  troposphere , just below the stratosphere .
Weather generally refers to day-to-day temperature and precipitation activity , whereas climate is the term for the average atmospheric  शर्तें over longer अवधि of समय  .
When used  बगैर योग्यता  , `` weather '' is understood to be the weather of Earth .
Weather is driven by air pressure ( temperature and moisture )  मतभेद between एक प्लेस  and another .
These pressure and temperature differences can occur due to the sun  कोण at कोई particular  spot , which varies by latitude from the tropics .
The strong temperature contrast between polar and tropical  एयर देता वृद्धि  to the jet stream .
Weather  प्रणालियों in the mid-latitudes  , such as extratropical cyclones , are caused by instabilities of the jet stream flow .
Because the Earth 's axis is tilted relative to its orbital plane , sunlight is incident at  अलग कोण at अलग  times of the year .
On Earth 's surface , temperatures usually range ±40 °C ( −40  °f to 100 °f ) annually  .
Over thousands of years ,  परिवर्तन in धरती 's कक्षा affect the राशि और वितरण  of solar energy received by the Earth and influence long-term climate and global climate change .
Surface  तापमान मतभेद  in turn cause pressure differences .
उच्चतर altitudes हैं कूलर  than lower altitudes due to differences in compressional heating .
Weather forecasting is the application of  विज्ञान और प्रौद्योगिकी to भविष्यवाणी the राज्य  of the atmosphere for a future time and a given location .
The atmosphere is a chaotic  प्रणाली , so छोटी परिवर्तन  to one part of the system can grow to have large effects on the system as a whole .
Human attempts to control the weather have occurred throughout human history , and there is evidence that  इंसान कार्यकलाप ऐसे as कृषि और उद्योग  has inadvertently modified weather patterns .
Studying how the weather works on other planets has been helpful  in समझना कैसा मौसम  works on Earth .
A famous landmark in the  सौर प्रणाली , बृहस्पति  's Great Red Spot , is an anticyclonic storm known to have existed for at least 300 years .
however , मौसम  is not limited to planetary bodies .
A star 's corona is constantly being lost to space ,  बनाना कया is essentially a बहुत  thin atmosphere throughout the Solar System .
The movement of mass ejected from  the सूर्य is ज्ञात  as the solar wind .
Katy Perry is an American  singer-songwriter इससे सांता  Barbara , California .
She signed  साथ कैपिटल  Records .
Perry has  released तीन स्टुडियो एल्बम  , including her debut Christian effort Katy Hudson , One of the Boys , and Teenage Dream .
Perry 's mainstream career was kicked off with the massive chart  कामयाबी of उसके डेब्यू सिंगल  `` I Kissed a Girl `` .
During her career , Perry has been nominated for numerous major music awards ,  primarily लिये teenage  Dream and One of the Boys .
The following is a list of sovereign states and territories where  अंग्रेज़ी is an आधिकारिक भाषा or भाषा  of government .
In 2012 , there were 88  राज्य in कुल ( 60 sovereign  states and 28 non-sovereign states ) .
In many countries English is the dominant language , but  करता नहीं have आधिकारिक औकात  .
In Australia , English is spoken by the vast majority of the population and is the only language used in  सरकारी संस्थानों , लकिन ऑस्ट्रेलिया करता नहीं have an  official language .
The case is the same in the United Kingdom and the United  राज्य , हालांकि अनेक राज्य और regions भीतर  the U.S. do have English as an official language .
English is the dominant language of New Zealand and an official language of Canada ( along with French ) , India (  साथ साथ हिंदी और अनेक अन्य  languages ) , Ireland ( along with Irish ) , and the Philippines ( along with Tagalog ) .
English is  the एकमात्र आधिकारिक  language of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Commonwealth Games .
English is one of the official languages of the United Nations , the  यूरोपीय संघ और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय ओलम्पिक  Committee .
Many of these countries are current or former colonies or  dependencies of the संयुक्त किंगडम ( देखिए भी अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य  ) , or of the United States , itself a former colony of the UK .
Notable exceptions include Rwanda , which was a former Belgian colony and Eritrea , which was an Italian colony where the  अंग्रेजों साम्राज्य spanned इसके कंट्रोल तभी in संसार युद्ध ii और  shortly after ( 1941-1952 ) .
India  's भाषाई  picture is complex .
According to the Constitution of India , `` Hindi in the Devanagari script '' is the official  भाषा of the संघ ; और अंग्रेज़ी the 'subsidiary आधिकारिक  language ' ; however , English is mandated for the authoritative texts of all federal laws and Supreme Court decisions and ( along with Hindi ) is one of the two languages of the Indian Parliament .
English  is प्रयुक्त लगभग exclusively  for higher education , business and science .
Courses in majority of  the स्कूलों हैं सिखाया  exclusively in English .
English is  extensively प्रयुक्त  for administrative purposes in India .
India is the second-largest English-speaking country in  the संसार by क्रमांक of अध्यक्षों  , after the United States .
As such , many consider English to be the de  facto आधिकारिक भाषा  of India .
See Official languages of  इण्डिया  .
The linguistic makeup of  पाकिस्तानी is similarly  complex .
While the national language is Urdu , English is an official  भाषा और प्रयुक्त in कारोबार , सरकारी  and law .
अंग्रेज़ी  is a compulsory language in schools .
All school  पाठ्यक्रम हैं  taught in English .
Pakistan is the 9th largest English-speaking country in the world  by जनसांख्यिकी  .
Southern Cone ( , ) is a geographic region composed of the southernmost areas of South America , south  of  the Tropic of Capricorn .
Although geographically this includes Southern and part of Southeast ( São Paulo ) of  ब्राज़ील , in शर्तें of राजनैतिक भूगोल the दक्षिणी  cone has traditionally comprised Argentina , Chile , Paraguay , and Uruguay .
In the narrowest sense , it only covers Argentina ,  चिली और उरुग्वे , bounded on the उत्तर by the राज्य of ब्राज़ील , पैराग्वे , बोलीविया  and Peru , on the west by the Pacific Ocean , and south to the junction between the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans , which it is the closest continental area of Antarctica ( 1000 km ) .
High life expectancy , the highest Human Development Index of Latin America , high Standard  of जीना , significant भागीदारी in the वैश्विक  markets and the emerging economy of its members make the Southern Cone the most prosperous macro-region in South America .
For multi-event athletic competitions see Track and Field Competitions ,  खण्ड `` बैठक  '' .
Meetings are sometimes held around  सम्मेलन टेबल  .
In a meeting , two or more people come together to  discuss एक or अधिक  topics , often in a formal setting .
An official game in baseball , also sometimes called a regulation game , is a game that has  progressed परे the पाइंट at  which it can be considered complete if necessary .
This is  लगभग  the halfway point of the game .
In the case of inclement weather , any game which has reached this point may be stopped and shortened as needed , with the result being  फाइनल , और सब रिकॉर्ड और  statistics counted .
A  खेल जिससे रै नहीं पहुँचे इस पाइंट पहले होने रोका  is either considered a suspended game ( to be continued at a later date from the point of stoppage ) , or is simply canceled and replayed from the start .
( This depends on the rules of each  व्यक्तिगत लीग  . )
In either  मामला , no आंकडे  are counted until the game becomes official .
Since most professional baseball games are nine  पारी long  , the fifth inning is used as the threshold for an official game .
If the visiting team is leading , or the game is  tied , the समाप्त of the पांचवां inning marks  this point .
If the home team ( which bats last ) is already ahead in the score , and theoretically would  नहीं need इसके हाफ of the पांचवां  inning , then 41⁄2 innings ( i.e. , the middle of the fifth ) is considered an official game .
The game is also considered official if the home team scores to take the lead in the bottom of the fifth inning , since the game would end immediately  if the वही बात happened  in the ninth .
In nearly all cases , the `` official game '' status is used to  determine whether  a rain check will be honored for fans holding tickets .
If a game is started but does not reach the point of becoming official , fans are entitled to a new ticket for the make-up game  or ( in सबसे मामले ) कोई अन्य उपलब्धियाँ  game of their choice .
If a game is halted after it becomes official , the  खेल is बस shortened और  no rain check is given .
The `` official game '' statistic received some attention during the 1995 season , when Cal Ripken , Jr. was approaching the record for  लगातार खेल निभाई , previously आयोजित by  Lou Gehrig .
Large numbers were hung on the side of  the b & o गोदाम at oriole पार्क  at Camden Yards to show the number of games in Ripken 's streak .
प्रत्येक दिन , a नई क्रमांक थी unfurled दौरान the  fifth inning after each game had become official ( since the statistic would not have counted if the game had been stopped before that point ) .
A similar practice has been used to count down toward the demolition of several stadiums ( including Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia in 2003 , Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis in 2005 , and the original  यांकी स्टेडियम और shea स्टेडियम in नई यॉर्क नगर in 2008 ) ; as प्रत्येक खेल became आधिकारिक ,  the team would unveil a new ( lower ) number showing the number of games left to be played in the stadium .
A telephone number or phone  क्रमांक is a अनुक्रम of अंक प्रयुक्त to कॉल इससे एक  telephone line to another in a public switched telephone network .
When telephone numbers were invented , they were short — as few as one , two or three  अंक — और यहूद दिए orally to a switchboard ऑपरेटर  .
As phone systems have grown and  interconnected to encompass the संसार  , telephone numbers have become longer .
In addition to telephones , they now  अभिगम अन्य डिवाइस , ऐसे  as computers and fax machines .
the क्रमांक contains the  information necessary to identify uniquely the intended endpoint for the telephone call .
Each such  endpoint जरूर have a अद्वितीय  number within the public switched telephone network .
Most countries use fixed length numbers ( for normal lines at least ) and therefore the number of  endpoints determines  the necessary length of the telephone number .
It is also possible  लिये प्रत्येक सदस्य to have a नियत  of shorter numbers for the endpoints most often used .
ये `` आशुलिपि '' or `` गति  calling '' numbers are automatically translated to unique telephone numbers before the call can be connected .
Some special services have their own short numbers ( e.g. , 1-1-9 , 9-1-1 , 0-0-0 , 9-9-9 , 1-1-1 , and 1-1-2 being the Emergency Services numbers for China , Japan , South Korea , Taiwan and Sri Lanka ; Canada and the United States ;  ऑस्ट्रेलिया ; the संयुक्त किंगडम , आयरलैंड , दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , कैंडल , सऊदी अरब , the  United Arab Emirates , Morocco , Macao , Bahrain , Qatar , Bangladesh , Botswana , Ghana , Kenya , Hong Kong , Malaysia , Mauritius , Singapore , Zimbabwe , Trinidad , Tobago ; New Zealand ; Kuwait and the European Union , respectively . )
Many systems also allow calls within a local  क्षेत्रफल to be बना बगैर डायलिंग  the local area code .
For example , a phone number in North America will start with three numbers ( such as 661 ) , which  is the क्षेत्रफल कोड , followed  by seven digits split into sections of three and four ( such as 550-1212 ) , which is the local number .
Some areas now have  अनिवार्य ten-digit डायलिंग in  place , even for local calls .
Most telephone networks today  ( अपवाद होने  private intercom and secure phone networks ) are interconnected in the international telephone network , where the format of telephone numbers is standardized by ITU-T in the recommendation E.164 .
This specifies  कि the संपूर्ण क्रमांक चाहिए  be 15 digits or shorter , and begin with a country prefix .
For most countries , this is followed by an area code or city code and the  सदस्य क्रमांक  , which might consist of the code for a particular telephone exchange .
ITU-T recommendation E.123 describes how to  represent an अंतरराष्ट्रीय टेलीफोन क्रमांक in लिखने or  print , starting with a plus sign ( `` + '' ) and the country code .
When calling an international number from a fixed line phone , the  + जरूर be replaced साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय कॉल उपसर्ग चुनी by the देश  the call is being made from .
Some mobile phones allow the + to be  डाला  directly .
The format and allocation of local phone numbers are controlled by each nation 's respective government , either directly or by sponsored organizations (  ऐसे as nanpa overseen  by NeuStar Inc. ) .
Before a telephone call is connected  , the टेलीफोन क्रमांक  must be dialed by the calling party or Caller .
The called party might have equipment that presents caller  id पहले the कॉल is answered  .
A collection agency is a business that pursues payments of debts  owed  by individuals or businesses .
Most collection agencies operate as agents of creditors and collect debts for a fee or percentage of  the कुल राशि  owed .
वहीँ हैं अनेक  types of collection agencies .
First-party agencies are  oftentimes subsidiaries of the  original company the debt is owed to .
Third-party agencies are separate companies  contracted by a कम्पनी to collect  debts on their behalf for a fee .
Debt buyers purchase the debt at a  प्रतिशत of इसके मान  , then attempt to collect it .
Each country has its  अपना नियम  and regulations regarding them .
कैनबिस  flower with visible trichomes
Cannabis , also known as marijuana ( from the Mexican Spanish marihuana ) , and by other names , is a preparation of the Cannabis  संयंत्र intended लिये उपयोग as a psychoactive ड्रग  and as medicine .
Pharmacologically , the principal psychoactive constituent of cannabis is tetrahydrocannabinol (  thc ) ; it is एक of 483 ज्ञात  compounds in the plant , including at least 84 other cannabinoids , such as cannabidiol ( CBD ) , cannabinol ( CBN ) , tetrahydrocannabivarin ( THCV ) .
and  cannabigerol ( cbg  ) .
This is a list of American  फ़ुटबॉल quarterbacks जो have प्रारंभ लिये the वॉशिंगटन redskins  , as well as its predecessors the Boston Braves ( 1932 ) and Boston Redskins ( 1933 – 1936 ) , in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
The  वॉशिंगटन redskins मताधिकार थी  originally founded in Boston , Massachusetts as the Boston Braves , named after the local baseball franchise .
The name was  बदला the following साल to  the Redskins .
In  1937 , the मताधिकार  moved to Washington , D.C .
Of the 49 Redskins starting  quarterbacks , दो have महरूम  inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame : Sammy Baugh and Sonny Jurgensen .
रॉबर्ट griffin  III 2012-present
Jason  कैम्पबेल  2005-2009
Mark  burnell  2004-2007
Mark Rypien  1986-1993
Joe  theismann  1974-1985
Sammy  baugh 1937-1952
1st Special Forces Operational Detachment-Delta ( 1st SFOD-D ) , popularly known as Delta  फ़ोर्स , is एक of the संयुक्त राज्य  ' four secretive tier-one counter-terrorism and Special Mission Units .
It was  formerly सूचीबद्ध as  the Combat Applications Group by the Department of Defense but has since been officially re-designated the Army Compartmented Elements ( ACE ) .
While 1st SFOD-D is administratively  समर्थित by usasoc , it जलप्रपात अंतर्गत the operational कंट्रोल  of the Joint Special Operations Command .
डेल्टा फ़ोर्स और इसके नेवी बंटवारा  , the Naval Special Warfare Development Group , are the United States military 's primary counter-terrorism units .
Delta Force  's प्राथमिक कार्य हैं counter-terrorism , सीधा कार्रवाई ,  and national intervention operations , although it is an extremely versatile group capable of conducting many types of covert missions , including , but not limited to , hostage rescues and raids .
The Central Intelligence  एजेंसी  's highly secretive Special Activities Division ( SAD ) and more specifically its elite Special Operations Group ( SOG ) often works with – and recruits – operators from Delta Force .
Alpha decay is one example type of radioactive decay , in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle , and thereby  परिणत ( or 'क्षयs ' ) into  an atom with a mass number 4 less and atomic number 2 less .
Many other types of  decays हैं संभावित  .
रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय , भी ज्ञात as नाभिकीय  decay or radioactivity , is the process by which a nucleus of an unstable atom loses energy by emitting particles of ionizing radiation .
A material that spontaneously emits this kind of radiation —  जिससे शामिल the उत्सर्जन of  energetic alpha particles , beta particles , and gamma rays — is considered radioactive .
There are many different types of  रेडियोसक्रिय क्षय ( देखिए तालिका  below ) .
A decay , or loss of  उर्जा , परिणाम  when an atom with one type of nucleus , called the parent radionuclide , transforms to an atom with a nucleus in a different state , or to a different nucleus containing different numbers of protons and neutrons .
either of ये  products is named the daughter nuclide .
In some decays the parent and daughter are different chemical elements , and thus the  क्षय प्रक्रम परिणाम in नाभिकीय  transmutation ( creation of an atom of a new element ) .
The first decay processes to be  खोजा यहूद अल्फा क्षय  , beta decay , and gamma decay .
Alpha decay occurs when the nucleus  ejects an अल्फा कण ( हीलियम केंद्रक  ) .
This is the most common process of emitting nucleons , but in rarer types of decays , nuclei can eject protons , or  विशिष्ट nuclei of अन्य तत्व  ( in the process called cluster decay ) .
Beta decay occurs when the nucleus emits an  इलेक्ट्रॉन or positron और a प्रकार of  neutrino , in a process that changes a proton to a neutron or the other way around .
The nucleus may capture an orbiting electron , converting a proton into a  न्यूट्रॉन ( इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर  ) .
All of these processes result in  नाभिकीय transmutation  .
By contrast , there exist radioactive  क्षय प्रक्रियाओं कि do नहीं परिणाम  in transmutation .
The energy of an excited nucleus may be emitted as a gamma ray in gamma decay , or used to eject an orbital electron by interaction  साथ the उत्साहित केंद्रक in a प्रक्रम  called internal conversion .
Radioisotopes occasionally emit neutrons , and this results in a change in  an तत्व  from one isotope to another .
One type of radioactive decay  परिणाम in उत्पाद जिससे हैं नहीं पारिभाषित , लकिन appear  in a range of `` pieces '' of the original nucleus .
This  क्षय  is called spontaneous fission .
This decay happens when a large unstable nucleus spontaneously splits into two ( and occasionally three )  छोटी बेटी nuclei ,  and usually emits gamma rays , neutrons , or other particles as a consequence .
Radioactive decay is a  stochastic ( i.e. , यादृच्छिक ) प्रक्रम  at the level of single atoms , in that , according to quantum theory , it is impossible to predict when a particular atom will decay .
However , the chance that a given atom will  क्षय is निरंतर  over time .
For a large number of atoms , the decay rate for the  संग्रहण is computable इससे the  measured decay constants of the nuclides ( or equivalently from the half-lifes ) .
Waxing is a form of semi-permanent hair removal which removes the  बाल इससे the रूट .
New hair will not grow back in the previously waxed area for two to eight weeks , although  कुछ लोगों होगा प्रारंभ to देखिए regrowth  in only a week .
Almost  कोई क्षेत्रफल of the देह can be waxed  , including eyebrows , face , bikini area , legs , arms , back , abdomen and feet .
There are many types of waxing  उपयुक्त लिये निकालना  unwanted hair .
Strip waxing is accomplished by  spreading a मोम thinly over  the skin .
A cloth or paper strip is then  दबाया on the शीर्ष और ripped बंद the दिशा  of hair growth .
This removes the wax  साथ साथ the बाल  .
Strip wax can also be made at home using lemon juice , water ,  शुगर और मधु  .
Hot waxing utilizes Hot wax  ( as opposed to स्ट्रिप  wax ) .
In this case , the wax is applied somewhat thickly  और साथ no cloth  or paper strips .
the मोम तब hardens जब  it cools , thus allowing the easy removal by a therapist without the aid of cloths .
This waxing method is very beneficial to people  जो have संवेदनशील  skin .
Wall  पेंटिंग ( 1st सदी ad  ) from Pompeii depicting a multigenerational banquet
Ancient Roman culture existed throughout the almost 1200-year history of  the सभ्यता of प्राचीन  Rome .
The term refers to the culture of the Roman  गणतंत्र , बाद the रोमन साम्राज्य , जिससे , at  its peak , covered an area from Lowland Scotland and Morocco to the Euphrates .
Life in ancient Rome revolved around the city of Rome , its  famed सात पहाड़ियाँ , और इसके स्मारकीय structures  such as the Flavian Amphitheatre ( now called the Colosseum ) , the Forum of Trajan , and the Pantheon .
The city also  था अनेक थिएटर , gymnasiums  , and many taverns , baths , and brothels .
Throughout the territory under ancient Rome 's control ,  आवासीय वास्तुकला ranged इससे बहुत modest  houses to country villas , and in the capital city of Rome , there were imperial residences on the elegant Palatine Hill , from which the word palace is derived .
The vast  बहुमत of the जनसांख्यिकी जिया  in the city center , packed into insulae ( apartment blocks ) .
The  नगर of रोम थी the largest megalopolis  of that time , with a population that may well have exceeded one million people , with a high end estimate of 3.6 million and a low end estimate of 450,000 .
Historical estimates indicate that around 30 percent of the population under the city 's jurisdiction lived in innumerable urban centers , with  जनसांख्यिकी of at तनिक 10,000 और अनेक सैन्य settlements , a बहुत ऊँची रेट of शहरी by pre-industrial  standards .
The most urbanized part of the Empire was Italy  , जिससे था an अनुमानित रेट  of urbanization of 32 % , the same rate of urbanization of England in 1800 .
Most Roman towns  और शहरों था a फ़ोरम , मंदिरों  and the same type of buildings , on a smaller scale , as found in Rome .
The large urban population required an endless supply of food which was a complex logistical task , including acquiring , transporting , storing and  वितरण of खाना लिये रोम और अन्य  urban centers .
Italian farms supplied vegetables and fruits , but  मछली और मांस यहूद luxuries  .
Aqueducts were built to bring water to urban centers and  वाइन और आयल यहूद आयातित इससे hispania , gaul और अफ़्रीकी  .
There was a very large amount of commerce between the provinces of the Roman  साम्राज्य , चूंकि  its transportation technology was very efficient .
The average costs of  हस्तांतरण और the  technology were comparable with 18th-century Europe .
The later city of Rome did not fill the space within its ancient Aurelian  दीवारें जबतक  after 1870 .
Eighty percent of the population  अंतर्गत the क्षेत्राधिकार of प्राचीन रोम  lived in the countryside in settlements with less than 10 thousand inhabitants .
Landlords generally resided in cities and their estates were left in the care of  फार्म  managers .
The plight  of ग्रामीण स्लेव थी  generally worse than their counterparts working in urban aristocratic households .
to stimulate a उच्चतर मजदूर उत्पादकता  most landlords freed a large number of slaves and many received wages .
Some records indicate that `` as many as 42 people lived in one  छोटी फार्म हट in  Egypt , while six families owned a single olive tree . '' .
Such a rural environment continued to induce migration of population to urban centers until the early 2nd century , when the urban population  रोका growing और प्रारंभ  to decline .
starting in the मध्य of the 2nd सदी bc , निजी यूनानी संस्कृति थी increasingly in ascendancy , in spite of  tirades against the `` softening '' effects of Hellenized culture from the conservative moralists .
By the time of Augustus ,  संस्कारी यूनानी household स्लेव सिखाया the रोमन यंग ( sometimes  even the girls ) ; chefs , decorators , secretaries , doctors , and hairdressers—all came from the Greek East .
Greek sculptures adorned Hellenistic  लैंडस्केप बागवानी on the palatine  or in the villas , or were imitated in Roman sculpture yards by Greek slaves .
The Roman cuisine preserved in the cookery books ascribed to  apicius is essentially  Greek .
Roman writers disdained  लैटिन लिये a संस्कारी यूनानी  style .
Only in law and governance was the Italic nature of Rome 's  accretive संस्कृति  supreme .
Against this human background , both the urban and rural  सेटिंग , एक of इतिहास  's most influential civilizations took shape , leaving behind a cultural legacy that survives in part today .
James Joseph ``  डफी '' waldorf , jr. ( born  August 20 , 1962 ) is an American professional golfer .
Glass bottles (  लिये खीरा स्लाइस  ) on shipping pallets
A Soviet  मेयोनेज़  jar
A  आधुनिक  `` French Kilner '' jar
Glass production involves two main methods – the float glass process , which  produces चादर कांच , और glassblowing जिससे  produces bottles and other containers .
A season is a subdivision of the year , marked by  परिवर्तन in मौसम , पारिस्थितिकी  , and hours of daylight .
सीज़न परिणाम इससे the वार्षिक क्रान्ति  of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution .
In temperate and polar regions , the seasons are marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface ,  विसंगतियाँ of जिससे may कारण पशु to go into शीतनिष्क्रियता  or to migrate , and plants to be dormant .
During May , June and July , the northern hemisphere is exposed to more direct  धूप क्युकी the गोलार्ध  faces the sun .
The same is true  of the दक्षिणी  hemisphere in November , December and January .
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the  सूर्य to be उच्चतर in the  sky during the summer months which increases the solar flux .
However , due to seasonal lag , June , July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December ,  जनवरी और फ़रवरी हैं the hottest  months in the southern hemisphere .
in शीतोष्ण और subpolar  regions , generally four calendar -based seasons ( with their adjectives ) are recognized : spring ( vernal ) , summer ( estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly use a six season model for temperate climate  regions कि शामिल pre-spring ( prevernal  ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot  regions have दो or तीन सीज़न  ; the rainy ( or wet , or monsoon ) season and the dry season , and in some tropical areas , a cool or mild season .
In some parts of the world , special `` seasons '' are loosely defined based on important events such as a hurricane  ऋतु , बवंडर ऋतु or a  wildfire season .
The  छह ecological  seasons
The  चार पंचांग सीज़न ,  depicted in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
The Battle of Fort Sumter ( April 12–14 , 1861 ) was the bombardment and surrender of Fort Sumter , near Charleston  , दक्षिण कैरोलिना , कि प्रारंभ the  American Civil War .
Following declarations of secession by seven Southern states , South Carolina demanded that the U.S.  फौज लापरवाही इसके सुविधाएं in  Charleston Harbor .
On December 26 , 1860 , U.S. Major Robert Anderson surreptitiously moved his small command from the indefensible Fort Moultrie on Sullivan 's Island to Fort  sumter , a substantial किला controlling the  entrance of Charleston Harbor .
An attempt by U.S. President James Buchanan to reinforce and resupply Anderson , using the unarmed  व्यापारी  ship Star of the West , failed when it was fired upon by shore batteries on January 9 , 1861 .
South Carolina authorities then seized all  संघीय प्रॉपर्टी in the चार्ल्सटन  area , except for Fort Sumter .
During the early months of 1861 , the situation around Fort Sumter increasingly began  to resemble a घेरा  .
In March , Brig . Gen. P. G. T.  beauregard , the पहला सामान्य अधिकारी of the newly  formed Confederate States of America , was placed in command of Confederate forces in Charleston .
Beauregard energetically directed the strengthening of   batteries around Charleston harbor aimed at Fort Sumter .
Conditions in the  फोर्ट grew dire as the संघ  soldiers rushed to complete the installation of additional guns .
Anderson  थी छोटी of मेन  , food , and supplies .
The  resupply of फोर्ट  Sumter became the first crisis of the administration of President Abraham Lincoln .
He notified the  राज्यपाल of दक्षिण कैरोलिना  , Francis W. Pickens , that he was sending supply ships , which resulted in an ultimatum from the Confederate government : evacuate Fort Sumter immediately .
प्रमुख एंडरसन  refused to surrender .
Beginning at 4:30 a.m. on April 12 , the Confederates bombarded the fort  इससे तोपखाने  batteries surrounding the harbor .
हालांकि the संघ गैरीसन लौटे  fire , they were significantly outgunned and , after 34 hours , Major Anderson agreed to evacuate .
There was no loss of life on either side as a direct result of this engagement , although a gun  विस्फोट दौरान the आत्मसमर्पण ceremonies  on April 14 caused two Union deaths .
following the  battle , there was widespread support from both North and South for further military action .
Lincoln 's immediate call for  75,000 स्वयंसेवक to दबाने  the rebellion resulted in an additional four southern slave states also declaring their secession and joining the Confederacy .
The  सिविल युद्ध  had begun .
3G ,  छोटी लिये तीसरा पीढी , is  the third generation of mobile telecommunications technology .
3G telecommunication networks support services that provide an information  ट्रांसफ़र रेट of at  least 200 kbit/s .
However , many services advertised as 3G provide higher  गति than the न्यूनतम तकनीकी  requirements for a 3G service .
Recent 3G releases ,  प्रायः denoted 3.5g और 3.75g ,  also provide mobile broadband access of several Mbit/s to smartphones and mobile modems in laptop computers .
3G finds application  in बेतार आवाज़ telephony  , mobile Internet access , fixed wireless Internet access , video calls and mobile TV .
`` Mazel Tov ! '' written on a  वाइन कांच टैग
Traditionally , after the groom  ब्रेक the कांच  , the guests shout `` Mazel Tov ! `` .
A birthday  केक , आइस्ड  with the words `` מזל טוב '' ( mazal tov ) , as is often done in Israel .
Here the phrase is written in  यहूदी  cursive .
`` Mazel tov '' or `` mazal tov '' (  यहूदी / यहूदी : `` מזל טוב '' , यहूदी  : `` mazal tov '' ; Yiddish : `` mazel tov '' ; lit .
`` good luck '' ) is a  phrase प्रयुक्त to एक्स्प्रेस बधाई  for a happy and significant occasion or event .
Hepatitis C is an infectious disease affecting primarily the  जिगर , caused by  the hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) .
The infection is often asymptomatic , but chronic infection can lead to scarring of the liver and ultimately to cirrhosis ,  जिससे is generally apparent बाद अनेक  years .
In some cases , those with cirrhosis will go on to develop liver failure ,  जिगर कर्कट or life-threatening esophageal और  gastric varices .
HCV is spread primarily by blood-to-blood contact  संबद्ध साथ intravenous  drug use , poorly sterilized medical equipment and transfusions .
An estimated  130–200 लाख लोगों  worldwide are infected with .
The existence of  ( originally `` non-  A non- B hepatitis '' ) was postulated in the 1970s and proven in 1989 .
only infects  इंसानो और  chimpanzees .
The virus  persists in the  liver in about 85 % of those infected .
This persistent infection can be treated with medication : the standard therapy is a combination  of peginterferon और ribavirin , साथ  either boceprevir or telaprevir added in some cases .
Overall , 50–80 % of  लोगों treated  are cured .
Those  जो develop cirrhosis  or liver cancer may require a liver transplant .
is the leading  कारण of जिगर प्रत्यारोपण  , though the virus usually recurs after transplantation .
No vaccine against is  उपलब्धियाँ  .
A flexible spending account ( FSA ) , also known as a flexible spending arrangement , is one of a number of  tax-advantaged वित्तीय खाते कि can be नियत up through a कैफेटेरिया योजना of an नियोक्ता  in the United States .
An FSA allows an employee to set aside a portion of earnings to pay for qualified expenses as  स्थापित in the कैफेटेरिया योजना , सबसे commonly लिये चिकित्सा खर्च  but often for dependent care or other expenses .
Money deducted from an  कर्मचारी 's अदा into an fsa is नहीं विषय to  payroll taxes , resulting in substantial payroll tax savings .
One significant disadvantage to using an FSA is that funds not used by the  समाप्त of the योजना साल हैं खोया to the कर्मचारी  , known as the `` use it or lose it '' rule .
The most common type of flexible spending account , the medical expense FSA ( also medical FSA or health FSA ) , is similar to a  स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता ( hsa ) or a स्वास्थ्य reimbursement  account ( HRA ) .
However , while HSAs and HRAs are almost exclusively used as components of a consumer  चलित  health care plan , medical FSAs are commonly offered with more traditional health plans as well .
In addition ,  निधि in a स्वास्थ्य बचत खाता  are not lost when the plan year is over , unlike funds in an FSA .
Paper forms or an FSA debit  कार्ड , भी ज्ञात as  a Flexcard , may be used to access the account funds .
Tennessee ( ) ( ) is a U.S.  राज्य स्तिथ in the southeastern  United States .
Tennessee is the 36th most  extensive और the  17th most populous of the 50 United States .
Tennessee is bordered by Kentucky and  वर्जिनिया to the उत्तर , उत्तर कैरोलिना to the ईस्ट , जॉर्जिया , अलबामा  , and Mississippi to the south , and Arkansas and Missouri to the west .
The Appalachian Mountains dominate the eastern  भाग of the राज्य , और the मिसिसिपी  River forms the state 's western border .
Tennessee 's capital and second largest  नगर is  Nashville , which has a population of 609,644 .
Memphis is  the राज्य 's largest  city , with a population of 652,050 .
The state of Tennessee is rooted in the Watauga  संघ , a 1772 frontier अनुबंध generally  regarded as the first constitutional government west of the Appalachians .
What is now  टेनेसी थी initially  part of North Carolina , and later part of the Southwest Territory .
Tennessee was  admitted to the संघ  as the 16th state on June 1 , 1796 .
Tennessee was the last state to leave the Union and join the Confederacy at the outbreak of the U.S. Civil War in 1861 , and the  पहला राज्य to be readmitted  to the Union at the end of the war .
टेनेसी सुसज्जित अधिक सैनिको  for the Confederate Army than any other state , and more soldiers for the Union Army than any other Southern state .
In the  20th सदी , टेनेसी  transitioned from an agrarian economy to a more diversified economy , aided at times by federal entities such as the Tennessee Valley Authority .
In the early 1940s , the city of Oak Ridge was established to house the Manhattan Project 's uranium enrichment facilities , helping to build the world  's पहला परमाणु बमबारी  .
Tennessee has played a critical role in the development of  अनेक फ़ॉर्म of अमरीकी लोकप्रिय म्यूज़िक , सहित  rock and roll , blues , country , and rockabilly .
Beale Street  in मेम्फिस is माना  by many to be the birthplace of the blues , with musicians such as W.C . Handy performing in its clubs as early as 1909 .
Memphis was also home to Sun Records , where musicians such as Elvis Presley , Isaac Hayes , Johnny Cash , Carl Perkins , Jerry Lee Lewis , Roy Orbison , and  चार्ली समृद्ध began उनके रिकॉर्डिंग करियर , और जहाँ चट्टान और फेंकें took आकार  in the 1950s .
The 1927 Victor recording  सत्र in ब्रिस्टल generally चिह्नित the शुरूआत  of the country music genre and the rise of the Grand Ole Opry in the 1930s helped make Nashville the center of the country music recording industry .
Three  ईंटें और गारा संग्रहालय recognize टेनेसी 's भूमिका in nurturing विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of लोकप्रिय  music : the Memphis Rock N ' Soul Museum , the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville , and the International Rock-A-Billy Museum in Jackson .
In addition , the Rockabilly Hall of Fame , an  ऑनलाइन साईट recognizing the विकास of rockabilly in जिससे  Tennessee played a crucial role , is based in Nashville .
Tennessee 's major  उद्योग शामिल कृषि  , manufacturing , and tourism .
Poultry , soybeans , and cattle are the state 's primary agricultural  उत्पाद , और प्रमुख निर्माण निर्यात शामिल  chemicals , transportation equipment , and electrical equipment .
The Great Smoky Mountains National Park , the nation 's most visited national park , is headquartered in the eastern  भाग of the राज्य , और a खण्ड of the एपलाशियन  Trail roughly follows the Tennessee-North Carolina border .
Other major tourist attractions  शामिल the टेनेसी एक्वेरियम  in Chattanooga , the Sunsphere in Knoxville , Dollywood in Pigeon Forge , the Parthenon , the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum , and Ryman Auditorium in Nashville , and Elvis Presley 's Graceland residence and tomb in Memphis .
One design  रूपांतर of  a cock ring .
A cock  रिंग is a रिंग कि can be लगाई around  a man 's penis , usually at the base , primarily to slow the flow of blood from the erect penile tissue , thus maintaining an erection for a much longer period of time .
Cock rings can be worn around just the penis or both  the शिश्न और scrotum  , or just the scrotum alone , though this is usually called a testicle cuff .
Rings can be made of a variety of different materials , most commonly leather , rubber , or silicone , though nylon and metal are also used either  as the प्रमुख घटक  or part of the closure .
The term cock ring is  sometimes प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये a प्रिंस अल्बर्ट piercing , a piercing  of the penis that is usually , though not always , a metal ring .
When used in cases of erectile dysfunction they are known by various names such as ``  स्तंभन रिंग '' और `` टेंशन रिंग  '' .
The headquarters of Major  लीग बेसबॉल at 245 पार्क  Avenue , Midtown Manhattan , New York City , USA .
Major League Baseball ( MLB ) is a professional baseball  लीग , consisting of टीमों कि खेल in the नेशनल  League and the American League .
Dating to 1876 and 1901  क्रमशः , the दो लीग मिलाया in 2000 into a सिंगल संगठन led by the  Commissioner of Baseball , after 100 years as separate legal entities .
MLB constitutes one of the major professional sports leagues of the  संयुक्त राज्य और कनाडा  .
It is composed of 30 teams —  29 in the संयुक्त राज्य  and one in Canada .
Teams in MLB play 162 games  प्रत्येक ऋतु over छह महीने  ( April through September ) .
Five teams in  प्रत्येक लीग अग्रिम to a four-round postseason  tournament that culminates in the World Series , a best-of-seven-games championship series between the two league champions which dates to 1903 .
The organization oversees many minor-league baseball leagues which operate  परिचय 240 टीमों संबद्ध  with the major-league clubs .
With the International Baseball Federation , the  लीग भी manages the  international World Baseball Classic tournament .
MLB has the highest season attendance of any sports league in the world  साथ nearly 75 लाख spectators in  2012 .
Delaware ( ) is a U.S. state located  on the अटलांटिक  Coast in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States .
It is  bordered to the दक्षिण और वेस्ट by मेरीलैंड  , to the northeast by New Jersey , and to the north by Pennsylvania .
The state takes its name from Thomas West , 3rd Baron De La Warr , an   English nobleman and Virginia 's first colonial governor , after whom what is now called Cape Henlopen was originally named .
Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the second smallest , the sixth  तनिक populous , लकिन the छठे  most densely populated of the fifty United States .
Delaware is  विभाजित into  three counties .
From north to south ,  ये तीन काउंटी हैं नई  Castle , Kent , and Sussex .
While the southern two  काउंटी have historically  been predominantly agricultural , New Castle County has been more industrialized .
Before its  तटरेखा थी छान by  Europeans in the 16th century , Delaware was inhabited by several groups of Native Americans , including the Lenape in the north and Nanticoke in the south .
It was initially colonized by Dutch traders at Zwaanendael ,  स्तिथ निकट the  present town of Lewes , in 1631 .
Delaware was one of the 13 colonies participating in the American Revolution and on December 7 , 1787 , became the first state to ratify the Constitution of the  संयुक्त राज्य , thereby बनने  known as The First State .
उर्जा परिवर्तन  in Energy Systems Language
Energy transformation or energy  परिवर्तन is the प्रक्रम  of changing one form of energy to another .
In physics , the term  उर्जा describes the क्षमता  to produce certain changes within a system , without regard to limitations in transformation imposed by Entropy .
Changes in total energy of systems can only be accomplished by adding or subtracting energy from  उन्हें , as उर्जा is a मात्रा जिससे is conserved ,  according to the first law of thermodynamics .
According to special relativity , changes in the energy of systems will also coincide with changes in the system 's mass ,  और the कुल राशि of द्रव्यमान of a प्रणाली is  a measure of its energy .
उर्जा in a प्रणाली may  be transformed so that it resides in a different state , or a different type of energy .
Energy in  अनेक राज्य may  be used to do many varieties of physical work .
Energy may be used in natural processes or machines , or else  to provide कुछ सेवा  to society ( such as heat , light , or motion ) .
For example , an internal combustion engine converts the potential chemical  उर्जा in गैसोलीन और ऑक्सीजन into ऊष्मा , जिससे  is then transformed into the propulsive energy ( kinetic energy that moves a vehicle ) .
A solar cell converts solar radiation into electrical  उर्जा कि can तब be प्रयुक्त  to light a bulb or power a computer .
The generic name for a  यंत्र जिससे converts उर्जा  from one form to another , is a transducer .
In general ,  सबसे प्रकार of उर्जा , सहेजें  for thermal energy , may be converted efficiently to any other kind of energy .
sometimes इस occurs साथ an दक्षता of essentially 100 % , ऐसे as जब संभावित उर्जा is परिवर्तित  to kinetic energy as an object falls in vacuum , or when it orbits nearer or farther from another object , in space .
Conversion of other types of energies to heat may also occurs with  nearly पूर्ण दक्षता ( अनेक  types of friction do this ) .
Exceptions for perfect conversion efficiency ( even for isolated systems ) occur when energy has already been partly distributed among many  उपलब्धियाँ क्वांटम राज्य लिये a संग्रहण of अणु  , which are freely allowed to explore any state of momentum and position ( phase space ) .
In such  हालातों , a माप पुकारा एन्ट्रॉपी , or evening-out of उर्जा वितरण in ऐसे  states , dictates that future states of the system must be of at least equal evenness in energy distribution .
( There is no way , taking the universe as a whole , to  collect उर्जा  into fewer states , once it has spread to them ) .
A consequence of this requirement is that there are limitations to the efficiency with which thermal energy can be converted  to अन्य kinds of उर्जा , चूंकि थर्मल उर्जा in संतुलन at a दिए तापमान  already represents the maximal evening-out of energy between all possible states .
Such energy is  sometimes माना ``  degraded energy , '' because it is not entirely usable .
The  दूसरी विधि of ऊष्मागतिकी is a रास्ता of stating कि , लिये इस कारण  , thermal energy in a system may be converted to other kinds of energy with efficiencies approaching 100 % , only if the entropy ( even-ness or disorder ) of the universe is increased by other means , to compensate for the decrease in entropy associated with the disappearance of the thermal energy and its entropy content .
Otherwise , only a part of thermal energy may be converted to other kinds of energy ( and thus , useful work ) , since the remainder of the heat must be reserved to be transferred to a thermal reservoir at a lower temperature , in such a way that the increase in Entropy for this process more than compensates for the entropy  घटी संबद्ध साथ परिवर्तन of  the rest of the heat into other types of energy .
The National  हॉकी  League ( NHL ; ) is an `` unincorporated not-for-profit association '' which operates a major professional ice hockey league of 30 franchised member clubs , of which seven are currently located in Canada and 23 in the United States .
Headquartered in New York City , the NHL is widely considered to  be the प्रीमियर पेशेवर  ice hockey league in the world , and one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada .
The Stanley Cup ,  the oldest पेशेवर खेल  trophy in North America , is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season .
The league was organized on November 26 , 1917 , in Montreal , Quebec , Canada , after the suspension of  परिचालन of इसके  predecessor organization , the National Hockey Association ( NHA ) , which had been founded in 1909 .
It started with four teams and , through a series of expansions , contractions , and  relocations , the लीग is अभी रचित of 30 क्रियाशील franchises  .
The nation to which the name of the league originally referred was Canada , although the league has now been  binational चूंकि 1924 जब it विस्तारित into  the United States .
After a labour dispute that led to the  रद्दीकरण of the संपूर्ण 2004–05 ऋतु , the लीग  resumed play under a new collective bargaining agreement that included a salary cap .
In 2009 , the NHL enjoyed record highs in terms of sponsorships , attendance , and  टेलीविज़न ऑडियंस  .
The NHL draws many  अत्यधिक skilled खिलाड़ी इससे सब  over the world and currently has players from about 20 different countries .
Although Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the NHL , over the past four plus decades the percentages of  us और यूरोपीय खिलाड़ी have increased दोनो क्युकी of the एनएचएल 's जारी विस्तार  from six to thirty clubs since 1967 , and the increased availability of highly skilled European players .
इस is the पूरा सूची of the ratified  and unratified amendments to the United States Constitution which received the approval of the United States Congress .
Twenty-seven amendments have been ratified since the original signing of the Constitution , the  पहला टेन of जिससे हैं ज्ञात collectively as the विधेयक of  Rights .
The procedure  लिये amending the संयुक्त राज्य  Constitution is governed by Article V of the original text .
There have been many other proposals for amendments to the United States  संविधान introduced in कॉंग्रेस , लकिन नहीं सुपुर्द  to the states .
Before an amendment can take effect , it must be proposed to the states by a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a convention ( known as an Article V convention ) called by two-thirds of  the राज्य  , and ratified by three-fourths of the states or by three-fourths of conventions thereof , the method of ratification being determined by Congress at the time of proposal .
To date , no convention for proposing amendments has been called by the states , and only once—in 1933 for the  अनुसमर्थन of the twenty-first amendment —has the सम्मेलन विधि of अनुसमर्थन  been employed .
FMR LLC (  वफ़ादारी प्रबन्धन  and Research ) or Fidelity Investments is an American multinational financial services corporation .
It is one of the largest mutual fund  और वित्तीय सेवाएं समूह  in the world .
It was founded in 1946 and serves North American  निवेशकों  .
Fidelity Ventures is its  venture पूंजी भुजा .
Fidelity International Limited ( FIL ) , was  an अंतरराष्ट्रीय  affiliate founded in 1969 , serving most countries in the rest of the world .
In September 2011 , FIL was rebranded as 'Fidelity  विश्वव्यापी  Investment ' .
Fidelity Investments manages a large family of mutual funds ,  provides निधि वितरण और निवेश सलाह सेवाएं  , as well as providing discount brokerage services , retirement services , wealth management , securities execution and clearance , life insurance and a number of other services .
June 2006 was  the छठे माह of  that year .
It began on a Thursday and ended after 30 days on a Friday The following   events also occurred during the month:
Sociology is the scientific study of human  समाज और इसके origins , विकास  , organizations , and institutions .
It is a social science which uses various methods of empirical  छानबीन और नाजुक विश्लेषण to develop a देह of ज्ञान  about human social activity , structures , and functions .
A goal for many sociologists is to conduct research which may be applied directly to social  नीति और welfare , जबकि अन्य फ़ोकस primarily  on refining the theoretical understanding of social processes .
Subject matter  सीमाएँ इससे the सूक्ष्म स्तर of व्यक्तिगत  agency and interaction to the macro level of systems and the social structure .
The traditional focuses of sociology include social stratification , social class , culture , race and ethnicity ,  लिंग और कामुकता , सोशल गतिशीलता , धर्म , secularization  , law , and deviance .
As all spheres of human activity are affected by the interplay between social structure and individual agency , sociology has gradually expanded its focus to further subjects ,  ऐसे as स्वास्थ्य , चिकित्सा , सैन्य और penal संस्थानों , the अंतरजाल  , environmental sociology , political economy and the role of social activity in the development of scientific knowledge .
the दायरा of  social scientific methods has also expanded .
सोशल शोधकर्ताओं चित्रण  upon a variety of qualitative and quantitative techniques .
The linguistic and cultural  turns of the mid-twentieth सदी led to increasingly interpretative  , hermeneutic , and philosophic approaches to the analysis of society .
Conversely , recent decades have seen the rise of new analytically , mathematically  और computationally कठोर तकनीकों  , such as agent-based modelling and social network analysis .
Sociology should not be confused with various general social studies courses which bear  छोटी संबंध to समाजशास्त्रीय सिद्धान्त  or social science research methodology .
Thunder is the sound  caused by बिजली  .
Depending on the nature of the lightning and distance of the listener , thunder can range from a sharp , loud crack to  a long ,  low rumble ( brontide ) .
The sudden increase in pressure and temperature from lightning produces rapid expansion of the air surrounding and within a  bolt of बिजली  .
In turn , this expansion of air creates a sonic shock wave , similar to a sonic boom , which produces the sound of thunder ,  प्रायः referred to  as a clap , crack , or peal of thunder .
The distance of  the बिजली can be  calculated by the listener based on the time interval from when the lightning is seen to when the sound is heard .
Palma  ( , , ) , in पूरा पालमा de mallorca  , is the major city and port on the island of Majorca ( Mallorca ) and capital city of the autonomous community of the Balearic Islands in Spain .
The names  ciutat de mallorca ( नगर of majorca  ) and Ciutat ( City ) were used before the War of the Spanish Succession and are still used by people in Majorca .
However , the  आधिकारिक नाम थी mallorca , the  same as the island .
It is situated on the south coast of the  द्वीप on the खाड़ी of पालमा  .
As of the 2009 census , the population of the city of Palma  उचित थी 401,270 , और the जनसांख्यिकी of the  entire urban area was 517,285 , ranking as the twelfth largest urban area of Spain .
Almost half of the total population of Majorca  सजीव in पालमा  .
The Cabrera Archipelago , though widely separated from Palma proper , is  administratively माना भाग of the  municipality .
Its airport , Son Sant  जोन , serves over 22 लाख  passengers each year .
the marivent  Palace was offered by the city to the then Prince Juan Carlos I of Spain .
The royals have since  खर्च उनके गर्मियाँ छुट्टियाँ  in Palma .
luthor redirects  here .
For other uses , see  लूथर ( बहुविकल्पी  ) .
Alexander Joseph `` Lex '' Luthor  is a fictional अक्षर , a supervillain  appearing in comic books published by DC Comics .
Luthor is the archenemy of Superman , and as a high-status supervillain , has also come into conflict with Batman and  अन्य superheroes in the  DC Universe .
Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe  shuster , the अक्षर  first appeared in Action Comics # 23 ( April 1940 ) .
Luthor is described as `` a power-mad , evil scientist '' of high intelligence  और अविश्वसनीय technological  prowess .
Luthor 's goals typically center on  हत्या सुपरमैन  , the foremost obstacle to achieving the villain 's megalomaniacal goals .
Despite periodically wearing a powered exoskeleton , Luthor has traditionally lacked  superpowers or a डुअल पहचान  .
The character was originally depicted as a mad scientist who , in the vein of pulp novels , wreaks  कहर on the संसार साथ उसके अत्याधुनिक  weaponry .
In his  earliest दिखावे , luthor  is shown with a full head of red hair .
Despite this ,  the  character later became hairless as the result of an artist 's mistake .
A 1960 story by Jerry Siegel expanded upon Luthor 's origin and motivations , revealing him to be a childhood  dost of सुपरमैन 's जो खोया उसके बाल जब a आग नष्ट उसके प्रयोगशाला ;  Luthor vowed revenge .
Following the 1985 limited series Crisis on Infinite Earths , the character was re-imagined as a Machiavellian  उद्योगपति और white-collar दण्ड ,  even briefly serving as President of the United States .
In recent years , various  लेखक have revived luthor  's mad scientist persona from the 1940s .
The  अक्षर थी क्रमित  as the 8th Greatest Villain by Wizard on its 100 Greatest Villains of All Time list .
IGN 's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of  सब समय क्रमित luthor  as # 4 .
Luthor is also described as a `` megavillain '' by comic book critic Peter Sanderson , one of a few genre-crossing villains whose adventures take place `` in a world in which the ordinary laws of nature are slightly suspended '' ; characters such as Professor Moriarty , Count Dracula , Hannibal Lecter , Doctor Doom , and Darth  vader , भी अनुरूप इस  description .
Martin Luther King , Jr. Day is a United States federal holiday marking the  जन्मदिवस of रेव . dr. मार्टिन  Luther King , Jr .
It is observed on the third Monday  of जनवरी प्रत्येक साल  , which is around the time of King 's birthday , January 15 .
The floating holiday is similar to holidays set under the Uniform Monday Holiday Act , though the act predated the establishment of Martin Luther King , Jr. Day by 15  सालो  .
King was the chief spokesman for nonviolent activism in the civil rights movement , which  सफलतापूर्वक protested जातिगत पक्षपात in संघीय और  state law .
The campaign for a federal holiday in King 's honor began  जल्द बाद उसके हत्या  in 1968 .
Ronald Reagan signed the  अवकाश into विधि in 1983 , और  it was first observed on January 20 , 1986 .
At first , some states resisted observing the holiday as such , giving it alternative names  or combining it साथ  other holidays .
It was officially  observed in सब 50 राज्य  for the first time in 2000 .
The camera phone solution  allows तत्काल sharing of  pictures .
As it 's automatic and instant , the user does not have to use a cable  or removable मीडिया to कनेक्ट to a निजी  computer .
A camera phone is a mobile  फोन जिससे is समर्थ to  capture still photographs ( and usually video ) .
Since  जल्दी in the 21st सदी  the majority of mobile phones in use are camera phones .
Most camera phones are simpler than  पृथक डिजिटल  cameras .
Their usual fixed focus  lenses और छोटी सेंसर  limit their performance in poor lighting .
Lacking  a शारीरिक  shutter , most have a long shutter lag .
Flash , where  उपस्थित ,  is usually weak .
Optical  जूम  and tripod screws are rare .
Some also lack a USB connection ,  removable मेमोरी कार्ड , or अन्य  way of transferring their pictures more quickly than by the phone 's inherent communication feature .
Some of the more expensive camera phones have only a few of these technical disadvantages , which apply most acutely in low  लाइट शर्तें और in कोई मामला have नहीं inhibited  their widespread use .
Most model  लाइनों improve in ये  regards every year or two .
Some ,  ऐसे as the droid  Incredible only have a menu choice to start an application program to activate the camera .
Others , such as  the ब्लैकबेरी तूफ़ान 2 , droid  X , Motorola V980 and Nokia 5800 also have a separate camera button for quickness and convenience .
Windows Phones can be configured to  operate as a कैमरा भी if  the phone is asleep .
Some camera phones are designed to resemble separate low-end digital compact cameras in appearance and to some extent in features and picture quality , and are branded as both  मोबाईल फोन और कैमरे , सहित निश्चित सोनी  phones .
The principal advantages of camera phones are cost and compactness ; indeed for a user who  carries a मोबाईल फोन वैसे , the अतिरिक्त  size and cost are negligible .
Smartphones that are camera phones  may चलाएं मोबाईल अनुप्रयोग  to add capabilities such as geotagging and image stitching .
A few high end phones can use their touch screen to direct their camera to focus on a  particular ऑब्जेक्ट in the फ़ील्ड of दृश्य , giving भी an अनुभवहीन उपयोक्ता a उपाधि  of focus control exceeded only by seasoned photographers using manual focus .
`` Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow  ? '' is a 1986 कॉमिक किताब स्टोरी featuring  the DC Comics character of Superman .
Written by Alan Moore with help from long-time , and soon to be retiring , Superman editor , Julius Schwartz , the story was published in two parts , beginning in Superman # 423 and  समाप्ति in  Action Comics # 583 , both published in September 1986 .
The story was drawn by long-time artist Curt Swan , in his final major contribution to the Superman titles , and was inked by George Pérez in  the समस्या of सुपरमैन और कर्ट schaffenberger in the समस्या of कार्रवाई  Comics .
The story  थी an काल्पनिक टेल जिससे बताई the फाइनल स्टोरी of the चांदी आयु सुपरमैन और  his long history , which was being rebooted following the events of Crisis on Infinite Earths , before his modern introduction in the John Byrne series , The Man of Steel .
Moore wanted his plot to honor the long history of the character and to serve as a  पूरा निष्कर्ष to उसके mythology  .
The story is a frame story set ten years after Superman  थी पिछला देखी , जहाँ लोइस लेन recounts the टेल of the समाप्त of सुपरमैन 's  career to a reporter from the Daily Planet .
Her story includes numerous violent attacks against Superman by his enemies , the public  रहस्योद्घाटन of उसके रहस्य  identity of Clark Kent and a number of deaths of those closest to him .
The story has been cited as one of the best stories of  the अक्षर of सुपरमैन , और आलोचकों और ऑडियंस अक्सर  choose it as one of the most memorable comics ever published .
It is used as an  उदाहरण of कैसा to बंद  the long-time continuity of a comic book character .
The story 's legacy has endured with similar  कहानियां लिखा as श्रद्धांजलि to it .
The title is a reference to one of the nicknames of Superman as the Man of Tomorrow , and was used in  the शीर्षक of another सुपरमैन  .
The Bugatti Veyron EB 16.4 is a mid-engined grand touring  car , designed और विकसित by  the Volkswagen Group and manufactured in Molsheim , France by Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S .
the सुपर खेल संस्करण  of the Veyron is the fastest street-legal production car in the world , with a top speed of .
The original version has a top  गति of  .
It was named Car  of the दशक ( 2000–2009  ) by the BBC television programme Top Gear .
The standard Veyron won Top Gears Best  car चलित सब साल पुरस्कार  in 2005 .
On 6 April 2013 , Bugatti set the record for the fastest roadster in the world with the Veyron  ग्रैंड खेल  Vitesse , reaching on average a top speed of .
The Veyron 's chief designer was Hartmut Warkuss , and the exterior was designed by Jozef  kabaň of volkswagen , साथ much of the अभियान्त्रिकी  work being conducted under the guidance of engineering chief Wolfgang Schreiber .
A number of special  विसंगतियाँ have महरूम  produced .
In December 2010 , Bugatti began offering prospective buyers  the क्षमता to मनपसंद exterior और इंटीरियर्स  colours by using the Veyron 16.4 Configurator application on the marque 's official website .
the संस्था of the eucharist रै महरूम a कुंजी थीम  in the depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art , as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes painting .
`` At the  पिछला भोजन , on the रात्रि he  was betrayed , our Savior instituted the Eucharistic sacrifice of his Body and Blood . ''
( Catechism of the  कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर 1323  )
Eucharist in the Catholic Church refers to both the celebration of the Mass , that is , the Eucharist liturgy , and the bread and wine which after the consecration are transubstantiated ( changed in substance ) into the body and blood of Jesus Christ , Lord and God , a declaration  प्रतिपादित by the परिषद of ट्रेंट साथ an anathema विरूद्ध anyone जो अस्वीकृत  this .
Blessed Sacrament is a devotional term used in the Roman Catholic Church to refer to the Eucharistic species ( the  देह और रक्त of मसीह ) .
The following is a list of colleges and universities  in the u.S. राज्य  of Louisiana .
A short story is a brief work of literature ,  प्रायः लिखा in कथा  prose .
Emerging from earlier oral  storytelling परंपराओं  in the 17th century , the short story has grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization .
At  इसके सबसे prototypical  the short story features a small cast of named characters , and focuses on a self-contained incident with the intent of evoking a `` single effect '' or mood .
In so doing ,  छोटी कहानियां मेक उपयोग of प्लाट , अनुनाद , और अन्य डायनेमिक  components to a far greater degree than is typical of an anecdote , yet to a far lesser degree than a novel .
While the short story is largely distinct from the novel ,  लेखक of दोनो generally चित्रण इससे a आम पूल  of literary techniques .
Short stories  have no नियत  length .
In terms of word count there is no  आधिकारिक demarcation between  an anecdote , a short story , and a novel .
Rather , the form 's parameters are given by the  rhetorical और व्यावहारिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट in जिससे a  given story is produced and considered , so that what constitutes a short story may differ between genres , countries , eras , and commentators .
Like the novel , the short story 's predominant shape reflects the demands of the available markets for publication , and the evolution of the form seems  closely tied to the एवोल्यूशन of the प्रकाशन उद्योग और the  submission guidelines of its constituent houses .
The short story has been considered both an apprenticeship form preceding more lengthy works , and a crafted form in  इसके अपना सही , एकत्रित  together in books of similar length , price , and distribution as novels .
Short story  लेखक may define उनके  works as part of the artistic and personal expression of the form .
वे may भी  attempt to resist categorization by genre and fixed form .
Area codes  in मिशिगन
Area code 810 is the telephone  क्षेत्रफल कोड  serving eastern Michigan .
The raccoon ( , Procyon lotor ) , sometimes spelled racoon ,  भी ज्ञात as the आम raccoon , उत्तर अमरीकी raccoon ,  northern raccoon and colloquially as coon , is a medium-sized mammal native to North America .
The raccoon is the largest of the procyonid  परिवार , having a देह लंबाई  of and a body weight of .
Its grayish coat mostly consists of dense  underfur जिससे insulates विरूद्ध ठंडा  weather .
Two of the raccoon 's most distinctive features are its extremely dexterous front paws and its facial  मुखौटा , जिससे हैं विषयवस्तु  in the mythology of several Native American tribes .
Raccoons are noted  लिये उनके प्रज्ञा , साथ अध्ययन प्रर्दशित  that they are able to remember the solution to tasks for up to three years .
The diet of the omnivorous raccoon , which is usually nocturnal ,  consists of परिचय 40 % invertebrates ,  33 % plant foods , and 27 % vertebrates .
The  असली habitats of the raccoon हैं पतझड़ी और मिश्रित वनों , लकिन due to उनके adaptability वे have विस्तारित उनके  range to mountainous areas , coastal marshes , and urban areas , where some homeowners consider them to be pests .
As a  परिणाम of escapes और deliberate introductions  in the mid-20th century , raccoons are now also distributed across the European mainland , the Caucasus region and Japan .
Though previously thought to be  एकान्त , वहीँ is अभी प्रमाण कि  raccoons engage in gender-specific social behavior .
Related females often share a common area ,  जबकि unrelated males सजीव साथ in समूह of up to चार पशु to maintain उनके स्थितियाँ विरूद्ध विदेशी  males during the mating season , and other potential invaders .
Home range sizes vary anywhere from 3 hectares ( 7 acres ) for females in cities to 50 km2  ( 20 sq mi ) लिये males in prairies  .
After a gestation period of  परिचय 65 दिनों , दो to पाँच  young , known as `` kits '' , are born in spring .
The  kits हैं subsequently उठाया  by their mother until dispersion in late fall .
Although captive raccoons have been known to live over  20 सालो , उनके औसत जीवन  expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 years .
In many areas , hunting  और vehicular चोट  are the two most common causes of death .
The 2010 Haiti earthquake was a catastrophic magnitude 7.0 Mw earthquake , with an epicenter near the town of Léogâne ( Ouest Department ) , approximately west of  port-au-prince , हैती 's पूंजी .
The earthquake occurred at  16:53 लोकल समय ( 21:53 utc  ) on Tuesday , 12 January 2010 .
By 24 January , at least 52 aftershocks measuring  4.5 or वृहद था महरूम अंकित  .
An estimated three million people  यहूद प्रभावित by  the quake .
The  उच्चतम विश्वसनीय मौत  count was estimated at 220,000 .
haitian सरकारी  estimates were higher .
The government of Haiti estimated that  250,000 निवास  and 30,000 commercial buildings had collapsed or were severely damaged .
the भूकंप caused  major damage in Port-au-Prince , Jacmel and other settlements in the region .
Many notable landmark buildings were significantly damaged or destroyed , including the Presidential Palace ,  the नेशनल सभा  building , the Port-au-Prince Cathedral , and the main jail .
Among those killed were Archbishop of  port-au-prince जोसेफ सर्ज miot , और विपक्ष  leader Micha Gaillard .
The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti ( MINUSTAH )  , स्तिथ in the पूंजी , collapsed , हत्या अनेक , सहित  the Mission 's Chief , Hédi Annabi .
Many countries responded to appeals for humanitarian aid , pledging funds and dispatching rescue and medical  टीमों  , engineers and support personnel .
Communication systems , air , land , and  समुद्र हस्तांतरण सुविधाएं , अस्पताल , और विद्युत संजाल  had been damaged by the earthquake , which hampered rescue and aid efforts ; confusion over who was in charge , air traffic congestion , and problems with prioritisation of flights further complicated early relief work .
port-au-prince 's morgues  were overwhelmed with tens of thousands of bodies .
These had  to be दफ्न  in mass graves .
As rescues  tailed  off , supplies , medical care and sanitation became priorities .
Delays in aid distribution led to angry appeals from aid workers and survivors , and  लूटने और विरल हिंसा यहूद  observed .
On 22 January the United Nations  विख्यात कि the आपात phase of the राहत आपरेशन थी आरेखण to a बंद  , and on the following day the Haitian government officially called off the search for survivors .
Mister Ed is a fictional talking horse , originally appearing in short stories by Walter R. Brooks , and later in an American television situation comedy produced by Filmways that first aired in  अनुप्रयोग इससे जनवरी 5 to जुलाई 2 , 1961 , और तब on सीबीएस इससे अक्तूबर  1 , 1961 to February 6 , 1966 .
The stars of the show were Mister Ed , a palomino horse who could `` talk '' , played by gelding Bamboo Harvester and voiced by former Western star Allan Lane ( who went uncredited for the entire  लंबाई of the श्रेणी ) , और उसके मालिक , an eccentric और enormously  klutzy , yet friendly , architect named Wilbur Post ( Alan Young ) .
Much of the  कार्यक्रम 's ह्यूमर stemmed इससे the फैक्ट मिस्टर ed होता  speak only to Wilbur , as well as Ed 's notoriety as a troublemaker .
Other running  चुटकुले केन्द्रित on wilbur  's character being a huge klutz and inadvertently causing harm to himself or others .
According to the show 's producer , Arthur Lubin , Young was chosen as the lead  अक्षर क्युकी he `` बस लगा जैसे the sort of guy a घोड़ा होता  talk to '' .
Lubin , a friend of Mae West , scored a coup by persuading the screen  प्रतीक to अतिथि  star in one episode .
In the United States , reruns aired  on उपनाम at नाइट इससे कूच 3  , 1986 , to February 1 , 1993 .
Sister station TV Land also reran the show  इससे 1996–98  and again from 2003-06 .
The series is currently broadcast every morning on This TV , along with  राजमार्ग पैट्रोल , और the पैटी  Duke Show .
It is also currently  ब्रॉडकास्ट on hallmark  Movie Channel .
As of January 1 , 2011 , the  पहला दो सीज़न of the दिखाएँ हैं  available on Hulu .
The Rapture is a term in Christian eschatology which refers to the `` being caught up  '' discussed in 1 thessalonians 4:17 , जब the `` मुर्दे in मसीह '' और `` we जो  are alive and remain '' will be `` caught up in the clouds '' to meet `` the Lord in the air '' .
The term `` Rapture '' is used in  at तनिक दो होश  .
In the pre-tribulation view , a group of people will be  बाएँ पीछे on धरती बाद  another group literally leaves `` to meet the Lord in the air . ''
This is now the most common use of the term ,  विशेषकर among fundamentalist  Christians and in the United States .
The other , older use of the term `` Rapture '' is simply as a synonym for the  फाइनल क़यामत generally , बगैर a विश्वास कि a समूह  of people is left behind on earth for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
This distinction is important as some types of Christianity never refer to `` the Rapture '' in religious education , but might use the older and more general  भाव of the शब्द `` rapture '' in referring to कया happens दौरान the फाइनल  resurrection .
There are many views among Christians regarding the timing of Christ 's return ( including whether it will occur in one event or two ) , and various views  regarding the गंतव्य of the aerial महफ़िल वर्णित in 1  Thessalonians 4 .
Denominations  ऐसे as रोमन catholics , परंपरागत ईसाइयों  , Lutheran Christians , and Reformed Christians believe in a rapture only in the sense of a general final resurrection , when Christ returns a single time .
They do not believe that a group of people is  बाएँ पीछे on धरती  for an extended Tribulation period after the events of 1 Thessalonians 4:17 .
Pre-tribulation rapture theology was developed in the 1830s by John Nelson Darby and the Plymouth  brethren , और popularized in the संयुक्त राज्य in  the early 20th century by the wide circulation of the Scofield Reference Bible .
Kris Nathan Humphries ( born February 6 , 1985 ) is an  अमरीकी पेशेवर  basketball player with the Brooklyn Nets .
The Philistine cities of Gaza , Ashdod , Ashkelon ,  ekron , और  Gath
The  philistines ( , , , or ; , plištim ) , pleshet or peleset , यहूद a लोगों जो  as part of the Sea Peoples appeared in the southern coastal area of Canaan at the beginning of the Iron Age ( circa 1175 BC ) , most probably from the Aegean region .
According to the Bible , they ruled the five city-states ( the `` Philistine Pentapolis '' ) of  गाजा , ashkelon , ashdod , ekron और gath , इससे wadi गाजा in  the south to the Yarqon River in the north , but with no fixed border to the east .
The Bible paints them as the Kingdom of Israel 's  सबसे खतरनाक दुश्मन  .
Originating somewhere in the Aegean ,  उनके जनसांख्यिकी थी around 25,000 in the  12th century BC , rising to a peak of 30,000 in the 11th century BC , of which the Aegean element was not more than half the total , and perhaps much less .
Nothing is known for certain about the  असली भाषा or भाषाएं  of the Philistines , however they were not part of the Semitic Canaanite population .
There is some limited evidence in favour of the  assumption कि the philistines  were Indo-European-speakers either from Greece and/or Luwian speakers from the coast of Asia Minor .
philistine-related शब्द मिला in the बाइबल हैं नहीं  Semitic , and can in some cases , with reservations , be traced back to Proto-Indo-European roots .
By the beginning of the 1st Millennium BCE they had adopted the general Canaanite  भाषा of the प्रदेश  .
The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery ( ASVAB ) is a multiple choice test , administered by the United States Military  प्रवेश प्रसंस्करण कमांड , प्रयुक्त to determine योग्यता लिये enlistment  in the United States armed forces .
It is often offered to  अमरीकी ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी जब वे हैं  in the 10th , 11th and 12th grade , though anyone eligible for enlistment may take it .
Although the test is administered by the military , it is not ( and never  रै महरूम ) a आवश्यकता कि a test-taker साथ a qualifying  score enlist in the armed forces .
In financial accounting , a balance sheet  or बयान of वित्तीय स्थिति  is a summary of the financial balances of a sole proprietorship , a business partnership , a corporation or other business organization , such as an LLC or an LLP .
Assets , liabilities and ownership equity  हैं सूचीबद्ध as of a विशिष्ट तिथि , ऐसे  as the end of its financial year .
A balance sheet is often described as a `` snapshot of a  कम्पनी 's वित्तीय  condition '' .
Of the four basic  वित्तीय कथन , the  balance sheet is the only statement which applies to a single point in time of a business ' calendar year .
A standard company  संतुलन चादर रै  three parts : assets , liabilities and ownership equity .
The main categories of assets are  प्रायः  listed first , and typically in order of liquidity .
Assets are followed by  the देनदारी  .
The difference between the assets and the liabilities is known as equity or the net assets or the net worth  or पूंजी of the कम्पनी और according  to the accounting equation , net worth must equal assets minus liabilities .
Another way to look at the same equation is that assets equals  देनदारी प्लस मालिक 's इक्विटी  .
Looking at the equation in this way shows how  एसेट यहूद financed : either by  borrowing money ( liability ) or by using the owner 's money ( owner 's equity ) .
Balance sheets are usually presented with assets in one section and liabilities and  जाल लायक in the अन्य  section with the two sections `` balancing . ''
A business operating entirely in cash can measure its profits by withdrawing  the संपूर्ण बैंको संतुलन  at the end of the period , plus any cash in hand .
However ,  अनेक व्यवसायों  are not paid immediately ; they build up inventories of goods and they acquire buildings and equipment .
In other words : businesses have assets and so  वे can नहीं , भी if वे want to , तत्काल फेरे  these into cash at the end of each period .
Often , these businesses owe money to suppliers and to tax authorities , and the proprietors do not withdraw all their  असली पूंजी और profits at the समाप्त of प्रत्येक काल  .
In other words  व्यवसायों भी  have liabilities .
.17 Hornady Magnum Rimfire , commonly known as the .17 HMR  , is a rimfire राइफल कार्ट्रिज  developed by the ammunition company Hornady in 2002 .
It descended from the .22 Magnum by  necking bas the .22 मैग्नम मामला to लो a .17  caliber ( 4.5 mm ) bullet , and it is more costly to shoot than traditional .22 caliber rimfire cartridges .
Commonly loaded with a 17 grain ( 1.1 g )  गोली , it can उद्धार muzzle  velocities in excess of 2550 ft/s ( 775 m/s ) .
The Schaumburg Flyers were a professional baseball team based in  schaumburg , इलिनोइस , in the संयुक्त  States .
The Flyers were to be a charter member of the North American League , which is  नहीं संबद्ध साथ प्रमुख लीग  Baseball , however , the team folded in March 2011 , before they began play in the NAL .
From the 1999 season to the 2010  ऋतु , the flyers निभाई उनके  home games at Alexian Field , near the Elgin O'Hare Expressway .
The team formerly played  in थंडर खाड़ी , ओंटारियो , जहाँ  they were known as the Thunder Bay Whiskey Jacks .
The team was originally  a सदस्य of the  Northern League from 1993 to 2010 .
On July 27  , 2009 , the flyers निभाई मेजबान to बैटल of  the Sexes II , which pitted the Flyers against the National Pro Fastpitch Softball Champions , the Chicago Bandits .
Played by official softball rules , the game was seen by an overflow record crowd of 8,918 ,  और थी जीती by the डाकुओं  4-2 .
In 1999 , the Flyers hired their first manager ,  रॉन  Kittle .
Kittle is best known for his playing days with the Chicago White Sox , and former Chicago Cubs and White Sox player Greg  hibbard थी the pitching  coach .
During the early years of the franchise ,  kittle किया a श्रेणी of tv commercials to प्रचार  the team , using the gimmick `` Ma Kittle . '' where he played both himself and his `` Ma . ''
The ads were successful at sparking some initial interest in the team as the Flyers hoped to steal  दूर प्रशंसक इससे the आसपास  Kane County Cougars .
The ad mimicked the highly successful Converse ads where Larry Johnson starred as  दोनो खुद और  `` Gramama . ''
At the end of the 2001 season , however , Kittle resigned from his managerial position , and Jim Boynewicz  थी नियुक्त to बदलें उसे  .
In 2004 , the Flyers made it to the  उत्तरी लीग चैंपियनशिप  Series against the St. Paul Saints .
Despite leading the five-game series 2-1 , Schaumburg  आखिरकार खोया  the series .
In Game 5 , Flyers relief pitcher Lyle Prempas allowed a game winning grand  स्लैम by st. पॉल infielder  Marc Mirizzi in the ninth inning .
The Flyers  appeared in the उत्तरी लीग playoffs  four times ( 1999 , 2003 , 2004 , 2006 ) but never won the championship .
Some famous players who played for the Flyers were former Oakland A 's outfielder Ozzie  canseco और पूर्व शिकागो  Cubs outfielder Dwight Smith .
Rachel Hannah Weisz ( / vice /  ; born 7 कूच 1970 ) is an अंग्रेज़ी फिल्मी और  theatre actress and former fashion model .
Weisz began her acting career at Trinity Hall , Cambridge  in the जल्दी 1990s , तब प्रारंभ working in  television , appearing in Inspector Morse , the British mini-series Scarlet and Black , and the television film Advocates II .
She made her film début in the film Death Machine ( 1994 ) , but her breakthrough role came in the film  कड़ी प्रतिक्रिया ( 1996 ) , अग्रणी to a high-profile भूमिका as एवलिन carnahan-o'connell  in the films The Mummy ( 1999 ) and The Mummy Returns ( 2001 ) .
Other notable films featuring Weisz are Enemy at the Gates , About a Boy , Constantine ,  the फव्वारा और the निरंतर माली , लिये  which she received an Academy Award , a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors ' Guild award for her supporting role as Tessa Quayle .
वो रै महरूम labelled  an `` English rose '' since her minor role in Stealing Beauty ( 1996 ) .
वाइज़  also works in theatre .
Her stage  भेदन थी the 1994 पुनरुद्धार of noël कायर 's खेल डिज़ाइन  for Living , which earned her the London Critics Circle Award for the most promising newcomer .
Weisz 's performances also include the 1999 Donmar  गोदाम उत्पादन  of Tennessee Williams ' Suddenly , Last Summer , and their 2009 revival of A Streetcar Named Desire .
Her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in  the latter खेल अर्जित उसके the  Critics ' Circle Theatre Award for Best Actress .
She has recently played Evanora in Oz the  ग्रेट और शक्तिशाली  .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the ``  संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव राज्य कि घोषित उनके  secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its  उत्पत्ति in the  issue of slavery , especially the extension of slavery into the western territories .
विदेशी  powers did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure ,  the confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished , और the मुश्किल  Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans  , led by अब्राहम  Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his  उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861 , सात cotton-based  slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the incoming  republicans अस्वीकृत  secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address  घोषित  his administration would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject  काल्स लिये secession  .
Confederate forces seized  numerous  federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace  सम्मेलन विफल  to find a compromise , and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did  और none पहचाना the नई confederate  States of America .
Hostilities began on  अप्रैल 12 , 1861 , जब  Confederate forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
lincoln पुकारा लिये प्रत्येक राज्य to provide सैनिकों to retake  the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the  किनारा राज्य और स्थापित a नवल  blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive in 1861–62  .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate  रिट्रीट at the बैटल of antietam , dissuading  British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made  समाप्ति गुलामी a  war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union  नष्ट the confederate नदी नेवी , तब  much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 ,  रॉबर्ट E.  Lee 's Confederate incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant  कमांड of सब संघ सेना in  1864 .
In  the पश्चिमी थिएटर , विलियम T.  Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The  संघ marshaled the संसाधन और जनशक्ति  to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to fight battles of attrition through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate  फौज  failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of  the earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships  , और mass-produced हथियार यहूद  employed extensively .
The  mobilization of civilian  factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history ,  resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000  soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30  प्रतिशत of सब दक्षिणी  white males aged 18–40 .
Potato bread is a form of bread in which potato replaces a  portion of the नियमित  wheat flour .
It is cooked in a variety of methods , including by baking it on a hot  तवे  or pan , or in an oven .
It may be leavened or  unleavened , और may have a किस्में  of other ingredients baked into it .
The  अनुपात of आलू to गेहूं आटा  varies significantly from recipe to recipe , with some recipes having a majority of potato , and others having a majority of wheat flour .
Some recipes call  लिये mashed आलू  , with others calling for dehydrated potato flakes .
It is available as a commercial product in many countries , with similar variations in ingredients , cooking  विधि , और अन्य परिवर्तनीय  .
The  प्रशांत समय मण्डल observes मानक  time by subtracting eight hours from Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
The clock time in this zone is based on the mean  सौर समय of the  120th meridian west of the Greenwich Observatory .
During  daylight छायांकन  time , its time offset is .
In the United States and  कनाडा , इस समय  zone is generically called Pacific Time ( PT ) .
Specifically , it is Pacific Standard Time ( PST ) when observing standard  समय ( शीत ) , और प्रशांत  Daylight Time ( PDT ) when observing daylight saving time ( summer ) .
Most  of कनाडा उपयोग daylight  saving time .
In Mexico the UTC−8 time zone is known as the Northwest Zone  , जिससे is synchronized साथ the u.S. पीडीटी  daylight saving schedule .
The largest  नगर in the प्रशांत समय मण्डल  is Los Angeles in California from USA ; the city 's metropolitan area is the largest in the zone .
The zone is one hour ahead of the Alaska Time Zone , one  घंटा पीछे the पहाड़ समय  Zone and three hours behind the Eastern Time Zone .
स्टीरियो 8 , commonly ज्ञात as the eight-track  cartridge , eight-track tape , or simply eight-track , is a magnetic tape sound recording technology .
It was  लोकप्रिय in the संयुक्त राज्य इससे the mid-1960s  through to the early 1980s , but was relatively unknown in many European countries .
It was , however , very popular in  the संयुक्त किंगडम  during this period .
Stereo 8 was created  in 1964 by a consortium led by विधेयक lear of lear जेट निगम , साथ  with Ampex , Ford Motor Company , General Motors , Motorola , and RCA Victor Records ( RCA ) .
It was a further development of  the समान stereo-pak  four-track cartridge created by Earl `` Madman '' Muntz .
A later quadraphonic version of the format was announced by  आरसीए in अप्रैल 1970  and first known as Quad-8 , then later changed to just Q8 .
Ramesses II ( 1303 BC – July or August 1213 BC ; Egyptian : , alternatively transcribed  as rameses और ramses or ) , referred to as रामेसेस the ग्रेट , थी  the third Egyptian pharaoh ( reigned 1279 BC – 1213 BC ) of the Nineteenth dynasty .
He is often regarded as the greatest , most  मनाये  , and most powerful pharaoh of the Egyptian Empire .
His successors  और बाद उन्होंने  called him the `` Great Ancestor . ''
रामेसेस ii led अनेक सैन्य रिझाने into  the Levant , re-asserting Egyptian control over Canaan .
He also led expeditions to the south , into Nubia ,  commemorated in inscriptions  at Beit el-Wali and Gerf Hussein .
At age fourteen , Ramesses was  नियुक्त प्रिंस रीजेंट by  his father Seti I .
He is believed to have taken the throne in his late teens and is known to have ruled Egypt from 1279 BC to 1213 BC for 66 years and 2 months , according to both Manetho and Egypt 's contemporary  ऐतिहासिक  records .
He was once said to have  जिया to be 99 सालो बूढ़ा , लकिन it  is more likely that he died in his 90th or 91st year .
If he  became pharaoh in 1279 bc as सबसे egyptologists आज मानना , he  would have assumed the throne on May 31 , 1279 BC , based on his known accession date of III Shemu day 27 .
Ramesses II celebrated an unprecedented 14 sed festivals ( the first held after thirty years of a pharaoh  's शासनकाल , और तब प्रत्येक तीन सालो  ) during his reign—more than any other pharaoh .
On his death , he was buried in a tomb in the  घाटी of the किंग्स ; उसके देह थी बाद स्थानांतरित to a royal संचय जहाँ  it was discovered in 1881 , and is now on display in the Cairo Museum .
The early part of his reign  थी केन्द्रित on भवन  cities , temples and monuments .
He established the  नगर of pi-ramesses  in the Nile Delta as his new capital and main base for his campaigns in Syria .
इस नगर थी निर्मित  on the remains of the city of Avaris , the capital of the Hyksos when they took over , and was the location of the main Temple of Set .
He is also known as Ozymandias in the Greek sources , from a transliteration into Greek of a part  of रामेसेस 's सिंहासन नाम , , `` ra 's mighty सच्चाई  , chosen of Ra '' .
The  टेक्सास रेंजरों हैं a पेशेवर  baseball team located in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex , based in Arlington , Texas .
The Rangers franchise is currently a member of the  पश्चिमी प्रभाग of प्रमुख लीग बेसबॉल  's American League .
Since , the  रेंजरों have निभाई  in Rangers Ballpark in Arlington in Arlington , Texas .
The team 's name is borrowed from the famous  विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसी of  the same name .
The franchise was established in 1961 by the name of the Washington Senators , an expansion team awarded to Washington , D.C. , after the city 's  पहला ballclub  , the original Washington Senators , moved to Minnesota and became the Twins .
After the season , the new Senators moved to  आर्लिंगटन , टेक्सास , और debuted  as the Rangers the following spring .
the टेक्सास रेंजरों बेसबॉल क्लबों रै बना छह  appearances in the MLB postseason , all following division championships , in 1996 , 1998 , 1999 , 2010 , 2011 and 2012 .
In 2010 , the Rangers advanced past the Division  श्रेणी लिये the पहला समय , defeating  the Tampa Bay Rays .
Texas then brought  घर उनके पहला अमरीकी लीग pennant  after beating the New York Yankees in six games .
In the 2010 World Series , the franchise 's first , the Rangers fell to the  सैन फ्रांसिस्को दिग्गज  in five games .
Their lone victory made them the first Texas team to win a World  श्रेणी खेल , the  Houston Astros having been swept in their 2005 World Series appearance .
They repeated as American League champions the  following साल , तब  lost the 2011 World Series to the St. Louis Cardinals in seven games .
gaius जूलियस सीज़र  ( , July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC ) was a Roman general , statesman , Consul and notable author of Latin prose .
He played a critical role in the  कार्यक्रम कि  led to the demise of the Roman Republic and the rise of the Roman Empire .
In 60 BC , Caesar , Crassus and Pompey formed a political alliance that was  to dominate रोमन राजनीती लिये अनेक  years .
Their attempts to amass  शक्ति through populist  tactics were opposed by the conservative elite within the Roman Senate , among them Cato the Younger with the frequent support of Cicero .
Caesar 's conquest of Gaul , completed by 51 BC , extended Rome 's  territory to the अंग्रेज़ी चैनल और the राइन  .
Caesar became the first Roman general to  क्रॉस दोनो जब he निर्मित a सेतु आरपार  the Rhine and conducted the first invasion of Britain .
These achievements granted him unmatched military power and  threatened to ग्रहण the खड़ा of pompey , जो था realigned खुद साथ the  Senate after the death of Crassus in 53 BC .
With the Gallic Wars concluded , the  सीनेट ordered सीज़र to lay bas उसके  military command and return to Rome .
Caesar refused , and marked his defiance in 49 BC by crossing the Rubicon with a legion , leaving his  प्रांत और illegally प्रवेश रोमन territory  under arms .
Civil war  resulted , इससे जिससे he उभरा  as the unrivaled leader of Rome .
After  assuming कंट्रोल of सरकारी , सीज़र  began a program of social and governmental reforms , including the creation of the Julian calendar .
He centralised the bureaucracy of the Republic and was  आखिरकार proclaimed `` तानाशाह in perpetuity  '' .
But the underlying political conflicts had not been  resolved , और on the ides of कूच  ( 15 March ) 44 BC , Caesar was assassinated by a group of senators led by Marcus Junius Brutus .
A new series of civil wars broke out , and  the संवैधानिक सरकारी of the  Republic was never restored .
Caesar 's adopted heir Octavian , later  ज्ञात as augustus , रोज़ to एकमात्र  power , and the era of the Roman Empire began .
Much of Caesar 's life is known from his own accounts of his military campaigns , and from other contemporary sources , mainly  the अक्षर और भाषणों of सिसरो और the ऐतिहासिक कृतियाँ of sallust  .
The later biographies of Caesar by Suetonius and Plutarch  हैं भी प्रमुख स्त्रोत  .
Caesar is  deemed to be एक of the महानतम  military commanders of history .
Linguistic map of  सीरियल , कैमरून  , and Benin .
Sign in English , outside the  विश्वविद्यालयों  of Lagos
There are hundreds of languages  बोला  in Nigeria .
The major languages are Yoruba ,  हौसा , इग्बो , ईदो , fulfulde ,  Kanuri , and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria , English , the former colonial language , was chosen to facilitate the cultural and  भाषाई एकता of the देश .
English , however , remains an exclusive  बचाना of the देश 's शहरी elite , और is नहीं widely बोला  in rural areas , which comprise three quarters of the countries population .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a microcosm of  अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे , encompassing  three major African languages families : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
Nigeria also has several as-yet  unclassified भाषाएं , ऐसे as cen tuum , जिससे may represent a relic  of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families .
Daucus carota ( common names include wild carrot , ( UK ) bird 's nest , bishop 's lace , and Queen Anne 's lace ( North America ) ) is a flowering plant in  the परिवार apiaceae , देशी to शीतोष्ण regions of यूरोपीय , दक्षिणपश्चिम एशिया और  naturalised to North America and Australia .
domesticated गाजर हैं cultivars  of a subspecies , Daucus carota subsp . sativus .
In the United States  , the शीर्षक of संघीय न्यायधीश प्रायः अर्थात् a न्यायधीश नियुक्त by the  President of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of  कॉंग्रेस to alter , अधिनियमों of कॉंग्रेस have स्थापित 13  courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such positions include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the  परम् अदालत ,  Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges ''  क्युकी वे कसरत the न्यायिक शक्ति vested in the न्यायिक  branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of International Trade exercise  न्यायिक शक्ति pursuant  to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts ,  सहित मजिस्ट्रेट न्यायाधीशों और दिवालियापन  judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , and their power derives from Article I instead .
See Article I and Article  iii अधिकरणों  .
Nelly Kim Furtado ( born December 2 ,  1978 ) is a कनाडाई सिंगर , songwriter  and actress .
She has sold 20 million albums worldwide and more 20 million singles , bringing her total sales to over  40 लाख रिकॉर्ड around the संसार  .
Furtado first gained fame with  उसके डेब्यू  album , Whoa , Nelly !
, जिससे शाखित दो  successful singles , `` I 'm Like a Bird `` and `` Turn Off the Light `` . ``
I 'm  जैसे a बर्ड '' जीती a 2001 juno पुरस्कार लिये सिंगल of the साल  and a 2002 Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
In 2003 , Furtado released Folklore , which produced three international singles— `` Powerless ( Say What You Want ) `` ,  `` कोशिश `` और `` força  `` .
Three years later she released Loose , a  विश्वव्यापी वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी  .
The album spawned four number-one  हिट्स : `` promiscuous `` , `` maneater ``  , `` Say It Right `` and `` All Good Things ( Come to an End ) `` .
After a three-year break , she released her first full-length Spanish album , Mi  योजना , और फ़र्टाडो प्राप्त a लैटिन ग्रैमी  for Best Female Pop Vocal Album .
In  2012 , फ़र्टाडो 's चौथी english-language  studio album , The Spirit Indestructible was released .
Furtado 's work has earned her numerous  पुरस्कार और accolades , सहित  2 Grammy Awards , 10 Juno Awards , 3 MuchMusic Video Awards and a star on Canada 's Walk of Fame .
Creatures of the Night is the  दसवाँ स्टुडियो एल्बम  by Kiss .
It is the  बैंड 's पिछला एल्बम लिये कासाब्लांका रिकॉर्ड  , the only label the group had ever recorded for at that point .
The album was  समर्पित to the  memory of Casablanca founder and early Kiss supporter Neil Bogart , who had died of cancer during the recording sessions .
It is also the band 's last album recorded with Ace Frehley credited as an official member ( until 1998 's  psycho सर्कस ) , और इसके पहला एल्बम साथ  Vinnie Vincent as the initially uncredited lead guitarist ( Vincent would later be credited , but not featured pictorially on the cover , of 1985 's reissue of the album ) .
Touch is a crucial  अर्थात् of receiving  information .
This photo  shows tactile markings identifying  stairs for visually impaired people .
The somatosensory system is a diverse sensory system comprising the receptors and processing centres to produce the sensory  modalities ऐसे as टच , तापमान , proprioception  ( body position ) , and nociception ( pain ) .
The sensory receptors cover the skin and epithelia , skeletal muscles , bones and joints , internal organs , and the  cardiovascular प्रणाली  .
While touch is considered one of the five traditional senses , the  छाप of टच is formed इससे अनेक modalities  .
In medicine , the colloquial term `` touch '' is  प्रायः  replaced with `` somatic senses '' to better reflect the variety of mechanisms involved .
Somatic senses are sometimes referred to as somesthetic senses , with the understanding  कि somesthesis शामिल टच ,  proprioception and ( depending on usage ) also haptic perception .
The system reacts to diverse stimuli using  अलग receptors : thermoreceptors  , nociceptors , mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors .
Transmission of information from the receptors passes via sensory nerves through tracts  in the स्पाइनल cord और  into the brain .
Processing primarily occurs in the primary  somatosensory क्षेत्रफल in  the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex .
The cortical homunculus  थी devised  by Wilder Penfield .
At its simplest , the system works when activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a  विशिष्ट stimulus ऐसे as ऊष्मा ; इस सिग्नल आखिरकार गुजरता to  an area in the brain uniquely attributed to that area on the body—this allows the processed stimulus to be felt at the correct location .
The point-to-point mapping of the body surfaces in the brain is  पुकारा a homunculus और is अनिवार्य  in the creation of a body image .
This brain-surface ( `` cortical '' )  मैप is नहीं अपरिवर्तनीय  , however .
Dramatic  शिफ्ट  can occur in response to stroke or injury .
Magnolia is a large genus of about 210 flowering plant species  in the subfamily  Magnolioideae of the family Magnoliaceae .
It is named after French  वनस्पतिशास्त्री पियरे  Magnol .
Magnolia is an ancient  genus  .
Appearing before bees did , the flowers evolved to  प्रोत्साहित परागण  by beetles .
To avoid damage from pollinating  भृंग , the carpels of magnolia पुष्प  are extremely tough .
Fossilised specimens of Magnolia acuminata have been found dating to 20 million years ago , and of plants identifiably belonging  to the magnoliaceae  dating to 95 million years ago .
Another aspect of Magnolias that is considered to  represent an ancestral राज्य is कि the पुष्प कली is enclosed in a bract बल्कि than in sepals  ; the perianth parts are undifferentiated and called tepals rather than distinct sepals and petals .
Magnolia shares the tepal characteristic  साथ अनेक अन्य flowering पौधे निकट the आधार of the flowering  plant lineage such as Amborella and Nymphaea ( as well as with many more recently derived plants such as Lilium ) .
The natural range of Magnolia species is a disjunct distribution , with a main centre in east and  southeast एशिया और a द्वितीयक केन्द्र in पूर्वी  North America , Central America , the West Indies , and some species in South America .
अंगूठा
`` White Christmas '' is an Irving Berlin song  reminiscing परिचय an old-fashioned  Christmas setting .
According to the Guinness Book of World Records , the version sung by Bing  crosby is the best-selling सिंगल of सब समय  , with estimated sales in excess of 50 million copies worldwide .
Accounts vary as to when and where Berlin wrote the  सोंग  .
One story is that he wrote it in 1940 , in warm La Quinta , California , while staying at the La Quinta Hotel , a frequent  हॉलीवुड रिट्रीट भी favored by writer-producer फ़्रैंक capra , हालांकि the  Arizona Biltmore also claims the song was written there .
He often stayed up all night writing — he told  उसके सचिव , `` पकड़ें  your pen and take down this song .
I just wrote  the बेहतरीन सोंग i 've कभी लिखा  — heck , I just wrote the best song that anybody 's ever written ! ''
cross-country स्कीइंग ( or xc  skiing ) is a form of ski touring in which participants propel themselves across snow-covered terrain using skis and poles .
The activity is popular in many  स्थान साथ विशाल snowfields , primarily उत्तरी यूरोपीय  , Canada , and Alaska .
cross-country स्कीइंग is भाग of the nordic स्कीइंग खेल परिवार , जिससे शामिल स्की कूद , nordic संयुक्त  ( cross-country skiing and ski jumping ) , Biathlon ( skiing and rifle marksmanship ) and ski-orienteering ( which includes map navigation along snow trails and tracks ) .
cross-country स्कीइंग is the आधुनिक स्टाइल  of skiing that most resembles prehistoric skiing , particularly when done in the backcountry .
It is also related to  telemark स्कीइंग  .
A use tax in  संयुक्त राज्य  is complementary to sales tax which means , if you buy a Taxable product/services without paying any Sales tax to vendor , you owe use tax .
You must self assess use tax and pay it directly to the  राज्य जहाँ the उत्पाद  were consumed or services were rendered .
Use tax typically is a tax on consumption but if you buy an item ( without paying sales tax ) and store it in your warehouse initially , use tax applies to that location where goods were  भंडारित .
Later on when  the फाइनल खपत takes प्लेस at कुछ अन्य स्थान , तुम हैं जरूरी  to pay the differential of tax rate to the jurisdiction of ultimate place of consumption .
This really means that you do n't have to pay both Sales Tax  as खूब as  Use Tax on one transaction .
It  is तभी एक or the  other that you are required to pay on purchase of taxable products/services .
If vendor  करता n't चार्ज कोई बिक्री कर on इसके  invoice then it is the obligation of the buyer to self assess Use tax and pay it to the appropriate Jurisdication .
Use Tax is generally charged at the same tax rate of Sales Tax but in some states  the कर रेट is अलग  .
Use tax is also termed as ``  खपत कर '' or `` उपभोक्ता  Use Tax '' .
A use tax is a type of excise tax levied in the United States by  numerous राज्य सरकारें  .
It is assessed upon tangible personal property  खरीदा by a निवासी of the assessing राज्य लिये  use , storage , or consumption in that state ( not for resale ) , regardless of where the purchase took place .
If a resident of a state  makes a खरीदें भीतर  his home state , full sales tax is paid at the time of the transaction .
The use tax applies when a resident of the assessing state purchases an item that is  नहीं विषय to उसके घर राज्य 's बिक्री  tax .
Usually , this is due to out-of-state  purchases , as खूब as ordering वस्तुएं through the मेल , by  phone , or over the Internet from other states .
The use tax is typically assessed at the same rate as the sales tax that would have been  owed ( if कोई ) था the वही goods महरूम खरीदा  in the state of residence .
For example , a resident of Massachusetts , with a 6.25 %  `` बिक्री और उपयोग कर '' on निश्चित goods और सेवाएं  , purchases non-exempt goods or services in New Hampshire for use , storage or other consumption in Massachusetts .
Under New Hampshire law , the New  हैम्पशायर विक्रेता collects no बिक्री कर on  the goods , but the Massachusetts purchaser/user must still pay 6.25 % of the sales price directly to the Department of Revenue in Massachusetts as a use tax .
If the same goods are purchased in a US state that does collect sales tax for such goods at time of purchase , whatever taxes were paid by the purchaser to that  राज्य can be deducted ( as a कर क्रेडिट ) इससे the 6.25 % owed लिये subsequent उपयोग , भंडार or खपत  in Massachusetts .
With few exceptions , no state 's  विक्रेता होगा चार्ज the देशी राज्य 's बिक्री कर on goods shipped आउट of  state , meaning all goods ordered from out-of-state are essentially free of sales tax .
The purchaser is therefore required  to घोषित और अदा  the use tax to his home state on these ordered goods .
The assessing jurisdiction may make the use tax payable annually , but  कुछ राज्य आवश्यकता  a monthly payment .
For example ,  जहाँ a वर्मांट निवासी रै नहीं सशुल्क at तनिक 6 % बिक्री कर on  property brought in for use in the state , Vermont law requires filing a tax return ( Form SU-452 and payment ) by the 20th day of the month following non-exempt purchases to avoid a $ 50 late fee , a 5 % penalty per month , to a maximum of 25 % , plus statutory interest on the unpaid tax and penalties .
Typical exemptions include purchases by charitable non-profit organizations or governmental  एजेंसियों , purchases लिये पुनर्विक्रय in कॉमर्स  , and purchases via `` casual sales '' by individuals not in the ordinary course of business .
भी नोट कि वहीँ हैं हज़ारों  of tax jurisdictions in the U.S. and many have ever-changing lists of specific types of goods and services that are not taxable .
As an illustration of the complexities : a 2006 Massachusetts law requires payment of tax on `` pre-written '' ( not custom ) software purchased and downloaded over the Internet for installation and use in Massachusetts , regardless of where it   originates .
However , the actual use of the same software downloaded by a Massachusetts resident  to a सर्वर in another राज्य remains a non-taxed `` सेवा ''  .
In contrast , Arkansas  generally करता नहीं कर anything वितरित  over the Internet ( such as downloaded software or music ) , except VoIP which is specifically defined as taxable `` telecommunications services '' .
Software (  pre-written or कस्टम ) `` वितरित thru a ठोस मीडियम '' ( i.e. , on डिस्क ) in अरकंसास is taxable  even if ordered online , except `` custom software for a particular customer '' which is non-taxable `` programming services '' even if delivered on a disk .
In most cases , this complexity is part of the underlying sales tax laws ; but while a brick-and-mortar store has to deal with only the sales tax  कानून of इसके अपना स्थान , रिमोट विक्रेता have to सौदे साथ the उपयोग कर कानून of अनेक jurisdictions—up to प्रत्येक us राज्य और मोहल्ले कि  assesses them , if the company has a presence or `` nexus '' in every state ( as large `` brick-and-mortar '' sellers like Wal-Mart and Best Buy do ) .
In medicine , pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary artery , pulmonary vein , or pulmonary capillaries , together known as the lung vasculature , leading to shortness of breath , dizziness , fainting , and other  लक्षण , सब of जिससे हैं exacerbated by exertion  .
pulmonary hypertension can  be a severe disease with a markedly decreased exercise tolerance and heart failure .
It was  पहला पहचाना  by Dr. Ernst von Romberg in 1891 .
According to the most recent classification , it can be one of five different types :  arterial , venous , hypoxic , thromboembolic  or miscellaneous .
सही
सही
Sanuk , a  प्रभाग of deckers बाहरी निगम  , is a footwear brand based in Southern California .
Sanuk  , the थाई  word for fun , was founded by Southern California native Jeff Kelley when he started making sandals out of indoor-outdoor carpet .
The first product created was green carpeted and entitled the ``  फर रियल '' बाद एक दूकान मालिक पूछा  if the novelty sandal was `` For Real . ''
The Fur Real first became a runaway hit through boutique stores  और नहीं the intended  surf shops .
The novelty act was followed up by a sandal wrapped in  तार जाल , a तेंदुआ छपाई संस्करण , और शैलियाँ बना आउट  of a poncho material in a variety of colors .
Sanuk has grown to include  स्टाइल विकल्प लिये मेन , महिलाओं और युवावस्था और is वितरित आरपार  the United States and in over 50 countries throughout Europe , Asia , South America and Australia .
Sanuk centers itself around a positive lifestyle  वकालत the स्लोगन , `` मुस्कान  , Pass it on ! `` .
in कंप्यूटर विज्ञान , सरणी प्रोग्रामिंग भाषाएं ( भी ज्ञात as वेक्टर or multidimensional भाषाएं ) generalize परिचालन on scalars to लागू transparently to सदिश , matrices , और उच्चतर आयामी arrays .
Array  प्रोग्रामिंग primitives  concisely express broad ideas about data manipulation .
The level  of conciseness can be नाटकीय in निश्चित मामले : it is  not uncommon to find array programming language one-liners that require more than a couple of pages of Java code .
APL , designed by Ken Iverson , was the first programming language to provide  array  programming capabilities .
The mnemonic APL refers to the title of his seminal book `` A Programming Language '' and  नहीं to arrays प्रति se . iverson 's योगदान to rigor और  clarity was probably more important than the simple extension of dimensions to functions .
In the United States an annuity contract is created when an insured party , usually an individual , pays a life insurance company  a सिंगल प्रीमियम कि होगा बाद be वितरित वापस to the insured पार्टी over  time .
Annuity contracts traditionally provide a guaranteed distribution of income over time , such as via fixed payments , until the death of  the व्यक्ति or व्यक्तियों नामित  in the contract or until a final date , whichever comes first .
However , the majority of modern annuity customers use annuities only to accumulate funds free of income and capital gains  कर और to बाद लो lump-sum withdrawals  without using the guaranteed-income-for-life feature .
अध्यक्ष  Barack Obama .
बराक ओबामा साथ उसके पहला  Supreme Court nominee , Sonia Sotomayor .
Following is a list of all United States federal  न्यायाधीशों नियुक्त by अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा दौरान उसके  presidency .
As of April 30 , 2013 , 187 Obama nominees to Article III judgeships have been confirmed by the United States Senate , namely two Justices to the Supreme Court of the United  राज्य , 35 न्यायाधीशों to the संयुक्त राज्य न्यायालयों of appeals और 150 न्यायाधीशों to the संयुक्त  States district courts .
25 further  nominations हैं  currently awaiting Senate action .
There are currently 16 vacancies on the United States Courts of Appeals , 67 vacancies on the United States district courts and 22 additional federal judiciary vacancies  कि हैं anticipated to  occur before the end of Obama 's second term .
Obama has not made any  recess नियुक्ति  to the federal courts .
Obama has made two nominations to the United States Court of International  व्यापार , an आलेख iii  tribunal .
Obama also designated sitting  न्यायधीश एमिली C. हेविट of the  United States Court of Federal Claims , an Article I court , to be Chief Judge of that court .
This is a list  of एयरपोर्ट in  Mexico , sorted by location .
Mexico has about 1,834  एयरपोर्ट , रैंकिंग 2nd in क्रमांक  of airports in North America , and 3rd in the world .
Only major National and International  एयरपोर्ट हैं दिखाया  .
Agency debt also known as an Agency bond is  a सुरक्षा , प्रायः a बंध , जारी  by a U.S. government-sponsored agency .
The offerings of these agencies are backed but not  गारंटी by the us  government since the agencies are private entities .
कुछ prominent issuers of ये प्रतिभूति हैं छात्र ऋण विपणन संघ ( sallie mae ) , संघीय नेशनल बंधक संघ ( fannie mae ) और संघीय घर ऋण बंधक निगम ( फ्रेडी मैक  ) .
एजेंसी प्रतिभूति हैं प्रायः exempt  from state and local taxes , but not federal tax .
Agency debt is also called an  एजेंसी सुरक्षा  .
The  susquehanna  Steam Electric Station , a boiling water reactor .
The reactors are located inside the  आयताकार containment इमारतें towards the सामने  of the cooling towers .
Three nuclear-powered American warships , ( top to bottom ) nuclear cruisers USS Bainbridge and USS   Long Beach with USS Enterprise the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier in 1964 .
Crew members are  स्पेलिंग आउट आइंस्टीन 's mass-energy  equivalence formula E = mc2 on the flight deck .
The Russian nuclear-powered  हिमभंजक ns yamal on a 1994  joint expedition with the NSF .
Nuclear power is the use of sustained nuclear  परिवर्द्धन to  generate heat and electricity .
Nuclear power plants provided about 5.7 % of the world  's उर्जा और  13 % of the world 's electricity , in 2012 .
In 2013 , the IAEA  रपट कि वहीँ हैं 437 operational नाभिकीय  power reactors ( although not all are producing electricity ) , in 31 countries .
In addition , there are approximately 140 naval  बरतन using नाभिकीय नोदन  in operation , powered by some 180 reactors .
There is an ongoing debate about the use  of नाभिकीय उर्जा  .
Proponents , such as the World Nuclear Association , the IAEA and Environmentalists for  नाभिकीय उर्जा contend कि नाभिकीय शक्ति  is a sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions .
Opponents , such as Greenpeace  अंतरराष्ट्रीय और nirs , मानना  that nuclear power poses many threats to people and the environment .
Nuclear power  संयंत्र दुर्घटनाओं  include the Chernobyl disaster ( 1986 ) , Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster ( 2011 ) , and the Three Mile Island accident ( 1979 ) .
वहीँ have भी  been some nuclear-powered submarine mishaps .
Research into safety improvements is  continuing और नाभिकीय  fusion , believed to be safer , may be used in the future .
As of 2012 , according to the IAEA ,  विश्वव्यापी वहीँ  were 68 civil nuclear power reactors under construction in 15 countries .
In the US the licenses of almost half its reactors have  महरूम विस्तारित to 60 सालो  , and plans to build another dozen are under serious consideration .
However , Japan 's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster  prompted a पुनर्विचार of नाभिकीय  energy policy in many countries .
जर्मनी decided  to close all its reactors by 2022 , and Italy has banned nuclear power .
Following Fukushima , the International Energy Agency  halved इसके  estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035 .
Photograph  of the बर्लिन वॉल लिया  from the West side .
The Wall was built in 1961 to prevent  ईस्ट germans इससे fleeing  from Communism .
It was an iconic  प्रतीक of the ठंडा  War and its fall in 1989 marked the end of the War .
The Cold War ,  प्रायः दिनाँक इससे 1947 to 1991 , थी a sustained राज्य of राजनैतिक और सैन्य टेंशन between  powers in the Western Bloc , dominated by the United States with NATO among its allies , and powers in the Eastern Bloc , dominated by the Soviet Union along with the Warsaw Pact .
This began after the success of their temporary wartime alliance against Nazi Germany ,  leaving the ussr और the us as दो superpowers साथ  profound economic and political differences .
A neutral faction arose with the Non-Aligned Movement founded by Egypt , India , and Yugoslavia ; this faction rejected association  साथ either the us-led वेस्ट or the soviet-led  East .
The Cold War was so named because the two major powers—each  possessing नाभिकीय हथियार और thereby  threatened with mutual assured destruction —never met in direct military combat .
Instead , in their struggle for global influence  वे सगाई in जारी मनोवैज्ञानिक warfare और in  regular indirect confrontations through proxy wars .
Cycles of relative calm would  be followed by ऊँची टेंशन  , which could have led to world war .
The tensest times were during the Berlin Blockade ( 1948–1949 ) , the Korean War (  1950–1953 ) , the स्वेज संकट ( 1956 )  , the Berlin Crisis of 1961 , the Cuban missile crisis ( 1962 ) , the Vietnam War ( 1959–1975 ) , the Yom Kippur War ( 1973 ) , the Soviet war in Afghanistan ( 1979–1989 ) , the Soviet downing of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 ( 1983 ) , and the `` Able Archer '' NATO military exercises ( 1983 ) .
The conflict was expressed through military coalitions , strategic conventional force deployments , extensive  सहायता to क्लाएंट राज्य , espionage , विशाल प्रचार अभियान , conventional और नाभिकीय बाहें  races , appeals to neutral nations , rivalry at sports events ( in particular the Olympics ) , and technological competitions such as the Space Race .
The US and USSR became involved in political and military conflicts in the Third World  देशों of  Latin America , Africa , the Middle East , and Southeast Asia .
To alleviate the risk of a  संभावित  nuclear war , both sides sought relief of political tensions through détente in the 1970s .
In the 1980s ,  the संयुक्त राज्य increased  diplomatic , military , and economic pressures on the Soviet Union , at a time when the communist state was already suffering from economic stagnation .
In the mid-1980s , the new Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev introduced the liberalizing reforms of perestroika ( `` reorganization ''  , 1987 ) और ग्लास्नोस्त ( `` खुलेपन  '' , ca . 1985 ) .
Pressures for national  स्वतंत्रता grew stronger in  Eastern Europe , especially Poland .
They reached a breaking point when Gorbachev refused to use Soviet troops to support the faltering  सरकारी of ईस्ट जर्मनी  in late 1989 .
Within weeks all the satellite states broke free from Moscow  in a शांतिपूर्ण वेव of revolutions  ( there was some violence in Romania ) .
The  pressures escalated अंदर the सोवियत  Union , where Communism fell and the USSR was formally dissolved in late 1991 .
The United  राज्य remained as  the world 's only superpower .
The Cold War and its  कार्यक्रम  have left a significant legacy , and it is often referred to in popular culture , especially in media featuring themes of espionage and the threat of nuclear warfare .
Pikes Peak State Park is a state park of Iowa , USA , featuring a bluff  निहार the अपर मिसिसिपी नदी विपरीत  the confluence of the Wisconsin River .
The park is operated by the Iowa Department  of प्राकृतिक संसाधन  .
It  is nearly a  thousand acres ( 4 km2 ) in extent .
The nearest city is McGregor  , आयोवा  .
Iowa Highway 76 approximately defines  इसके उत्तरी boundary  .
It gets its name from the Iowa incarnation of Pikes Peak , a particularly high point overlooking the gorge of the Upper Mississippi , and like Pikes Peak  in कोलोराडो , is नामित लिये zebulon  Pike .
There are  चढ़ाई trails , campgrounds  and RV facilities .
Mountain bikes are  permitted in निश्चित portions  of the park .
aside इससे recreational विकास , the जमीन in the पार्क थी  never cleared and to a large extent remains as it was before the advent of white settlement .
It is part of a larger complex of  पार्क , reserves और refuges जिससे शामिल पुतला mounds नेशनल स्मारक , the विभिन्न components  of the Yellow River State Forest , the enormous Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge and much smaller , much less well known Driftless Area National Wildlife Refuge .
The Northeast Iowa Legacy Trail System is undergoing development  , और  will connect elements of these sites .
Zac Brown Band is an American country/folk band  आधारित in अटलांटा ,  Georgia .
The lineup consists of Zac  भूरा ( सीसे vocals , गिटार ) , jimmy de मार्टिनी ( चलाऊ , vocals ) , जॉन driskell हॉपकिंस ( बास  guitar , vocals ) , Coy Bowles ( guitar , keyboards ) , Chris Fryar ( drums ) , Clay Cook ( guitar , keyboards , mandolin , steel guitar , vocals ) , and Daniel de los Reyes ( percussion ) .
The band has toured  throughout the संयुक्त राज्य ,  including a slot on the 2009 and 2010 Bonnaroo Music Festival .
They have also recorded five studio albums , and charted nine Number One  singles on the Billboard country  charts : `` Chicken Fried `` , `` Toes `` , `` Highway 20 Ride `` , `` Free `` , `` As She 's Walking Away `` , `` Colder Weather `` , `` Knee Deep `` , `` Keep Me In Mind `` , and `` Goodbye in Her Eyes `` in addition to the singles `` Whatever It Is `` and `` No Hurry `` , which peaked at number 2 on the same chart .
Talk radio is a radio format containing  चर्चा परिचय topical मुद्दे  .
Most shows are regularly hosted by a single  व्यक्तिगत , और प्रायः विशेषता साक्षात्कार  with a number of different guests .
Talk radio typically includes an element of listener participation , usually by broadcasting live conversations between the host and  श्रोता जो `` कॉल in '' ( प्रायः via  telephone ) to the show .
Listener contributions are usually screened by a show 's producer ( s ) in order to maximize audience interest and , in the  मामला of वाणिज्यिक बात रेडियो , आकर्षित  advertisers .
Generally , the shows are organized into segments , each separated by a pause for advertisements ;  however  , in public or non-commercial radio , music is sometimes played in place of commercials to separate the program segments .
Variations of  बात रेडियो शामिल  conservative talk , hot talk , liberal talk and sports talk .
While talk radio has historically been associated with AM/FM , starting around 2005 the technology for Internet-based talk-radio shows became cost  प्रभावी in the रूप  of podcasts .
Now , it is possible for an individual  to उपयोग a किस्में of सेवाएं to मेजबान an internet-based talk-radio  show without carriage by a traditional radio station .
In addition TV programming from talk and news outlets such as BBC , CNN ,  ब्लूमबर्ग और फॉक्स हैं अभी प्रायः उपलब्धियाँ  expanding the world of talk radio further .
Talk radio listening is now enjoyed not only on radios , but a wide variety of other devices and services including PCs using iTunes , station directories such as Tunein  , दिखाएँ निर्देशिका स्मार्टफ़ोन साथ ऐप्स  such as Stitcher .
Hippa is a  genus  of decapod crustaceans in the family Hippidae , containing the following species:
hippa adactyla  Fabricius , 1787
hippa  admirabilis ( Thallwitz , 1892 )
hippa alcimede  ( De Man , 1902 )
Hippa  australis  Hale , 1927
hippa carcineutes  Holthuis & Manning , 1970
Hippa  celaeno (  de Man , 1896 )
Hippa  granulatus  ( Borradaile , 1904 )
Hippa hirtipes (  दाना , 1852  )
Hippa  इंडिका haig  , Murugan & Balakrishnan Nair , 1986
Hippa  marmorata ( hombron  & Jacquinot , 1846 )
Hippa  ovalis ( A. milne-edwards  , 1862 )
Hippa picta (  heller , 1861  )
Hippa  strigillata  ( Stimpson , 1860 )
hippa testudinaria  ( Herbst , 1791 )
Hippa truncatifrons (  miers ,  1878 )
It is closely related to the genus Emerita , and species have often been  transferred between  the two genera .
Jakarta ( ) , officially known as the Special Capital  प्रदेश of  Jakarta ( ) , is the capital and largest city of Indonesia .
Located on the northwest coast of Java , Jakarta is the country 's economic ,  सांस्कृतिक और राजनैतिक केन्द्र , और साथ a जनसांख्यिकी of 10,187,595  as of November 2011 , it is the most populous city in Indonesia and in Southeast Asia , and is the thirteenth most populated city in the world .
The official metropolitan area , known  as  Jabodetabek ( a name formed by combining the initial syllables of Jakarta , Bogor , Depok , Tangerang and Bekasi ) , is the second largest in the world , yet the metropolis 's suburbs still continue beyond it .
Jakarta is listed as a global city in the 2008 Globalization and World  शहरों पढ़ाई समूह और संजाल ( gawc ) शोध  .
and has  an क्षेत्रफल  of .
This area has population of well over 28 million  , बनाना it एक of the संसार 's largest conurbations in  terms of number of inhabitants .
In 2011 , Jakarta ranked 17th among the world 's 200 largest cities , a jump  इससे इसके 2007 रैंकिंग of 171  .
Jakarta has grown more rapidly than  kuala lumpur , बीजिंग और बैंकॉक  .
Established in the fourth  सदी , the नगर became an महत्वपूर्ण  trading port for the Kingdom of Sunda .
It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies ( when it was known as Batavia ) and has continued as the capital of Indonesia since the  देश 's स्वतंत्रता थी  declared in 1945 .
The city  is the सीट  of the ASEAN Secretariat .
Jakarta is  परोसा by the soekarno–hatta अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र , हलीम perdanakusuma अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport , and Tanjung Priok Harbour ; it is connected by several intercity and commuter railways , and served by several bus lines running on reserved busways .
A  ठेठ घर एयर  conditioning window unit .
Air conditioning is  the प्रक्रम of altering the गुण of एयर  ( primarily temperature and humidity ) to more favourable conditions .
More generally , air conditioning can refer to any form of technological cooling , heating , ventilation , or  कीटाणुशोधन कि modifies  the condition of air .
An air conditioner ( often referred to as air  कॉन , ac or a/c , और नहीं to be उलझन साथ the संक्षिप्त  for alternating current ) is a major or home appliance , system , or mechanism designed to change the air temperature and humidity within an area ( used for cooling and sometimes heating depending on the air properties at a given time ) .
the कूलिंग is typically किया  using a simple refrigeration cycle , but sometimes evaporation is used , commonly for comfort cooling in buildings and motor vehicles .
In construction , a complete system of  हीटिंग , वेंटिलेशन  and air conditioning is referred to as `` HVAC `` .
``  6 पैर 7 पैर '' ( भी styled as  `` 6'7 '' ) is a song by American rapper Lil Wayne featuring label mate , Cory Gunz .
It is taken from his ninth studio album ,  tha कार्टर iv (  2011 ) .
It was  officially released on itunes  on December 16 , 2010 .
It  थी उत्पादित by ``  A Milli `` producer Bangladesh .
The song  नमूने  `` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) `` by Harry Belafonte .
DC Talk (  styled as  dc Talk ) , is a Grammy -winning Christian rap trio .
The group was formed in Lynchburg , Virginia in  1987 by टोबी mckeehan  , Michael Tait , and Kevin Max Smith .
They have released five major studio albums together : DC Talk ( 1989 ) , Nu Thang ( 1990 ) , Free at Last ( 1992 ) , Jesus Freak (  1995 )  , and Supernatural ( 1998 ) .
In 2002 , the Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music called DC Talk `` the most popular overtly  ईसाई अधिनियम of सब समय  . ''
In 2000 , the group released an EP titled Solo which  contained दो सोलो गीतों  from each member .
Since that time , DC Talk has been on an  indefinite अंतराल  , and the three band members have each led solo careers .
They have performed and recorded individual songs together several times during the 2000s , although the  समूह never officially  reunited or disbanded .
The group 's musical style evolved  significantly  throughout their career .
Their first two releases , DC Talk  और nu थांग , यहूद of the  hip hop genre .
DC Talk 's third album , Free at Last  , भी  mainly took influence from the hip hop style , although their music began taking on a rock sound .
The trio 's last two albums , Jesus  freak और अलौकिक  , were predominantly pop rock .
The Bible is a  संकलन of अनेक shorter  books written at different times and later assembled into the biblical canon .
All but the shortest of these books have been divided into chapters ,  generally a पेज or so in लंबाई , चूंकि  the early 13th century .
Since the mid-16th century , each chapter has been  further विभाजित into  `` verses '' of a few short lines or sentences .
Sometimes a sentence spans more than one verse , as in the case of , and sometimes there is more than one sentence in a single   verse , as in the case of .
As the chapter and verse divisions were not part of the original  ग्रन्थ , वे रूप भाग of  the paratext of the Bible .
The Jewish divisions of the Hebrew text differ at various points from those  प्रयुक्त by ईसाइयों  .
For instance , in Jewish tradition , the ascriptions to many Psalms are regarded as independent  आयतें , बनाना 116 अधिक आयतें , whereas the स्थापित  Christian practice is to count and number each Psalm ascription together with the first verse following it .
Some chapter divisions also  occur in अलग  places , e.g . in Hebrew Bibles is numbered as in Christian translations .
An index ( plural : indexes ) is a list of words or phrases (  'headings ' ) और संबद्ध संकेतक ( 'लोकेटरs  ' ) to where useful material relating to that heading can be found in a document .
In a traditional back-of-the-book index the headings will include names of people , places and  कार्यक्रम , और अवधारणाओं चयनित by a व्यक्ति  as being relevant and of interest to a possible reader of the book .
The pointers are  typically पेज  numbers , paragraph numbers or section numbers .
In a library catalog the words are authors , titles ,  विषय headings , etc. , और the संकेतक  are call numbers .
Internet search engines , such as Google , and full text searching help provide access to  सूचना लकिन हैं नहीं as चयनात्मक as an अनुक्रमणिका , as  they provide non-relevant links , and may miss relevant information if it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect .
In United States financial regulation , a suspicious activity report ( or SAR ) is a report made by a financial institution to the  वित्तीय अपराधों प्रवर्तन संजाल ( fincen ) , an एजेंसी of the संयुक्त राज्य विभाग  of the Treasury , regarding suspicious or potentially suspicious activity .
Facebook on  the  Ad-tech 2010
Facebook is an online social networking service , whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to  विद्यार्थी at the प्रारंभ of the अकादमिक साल by कुछ विश्वविद्यालयों administrations in the संयुक्त राज्य  to help students get to know each other .
It was founded in February  2004 by चिह्नित zuckerberg साथ  his college roommates and fellow Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The  जालस्थल 's सदस्यता थी initially सीमित by the संस्थापकों  to Harvard students , but was expanded to other colleges in the Boston area , the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It gradually added support for students at various other universities before opening  to ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी , और आखिरकार to  anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook  अभी allows कोई उपयोक्ता जो घोषित themselves  to be at least 13 years old to become registered users of the site .
Users must register before using the site , after  जिससे वे may बनाएँ  a personal profile , add other users as friends , and exchange messages , including automatic notifications when they update their profile .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups ,  व्यवस्थित by कार्यस्थल , स्कूल or कॉलेज , or अन्य  characteristics , and categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As  of सितंबर 2012  , Facebook has over one billion active users .
According to a May 2011 Consumer Reports survey , there are 7.5 million children under 13 with  खाते और 5 लाख अंतर्गत 10 , violating the  site 's terms of service .
in may 2005 , accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख in फेसबुक , और जिम breyer added $ 1 लाख of उसके अपना धन to  the pot .
A January 2009 Compete.com study ranked Facebook as the most used social networking  सेवा by विश्वव्यापी  monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade ``  best-of '' सूची , saying , `` कैसा on धरती किया we stalk हमारी exes ,  remember our co-workers ' birthdays , bug our friends , and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
Critics , such as Facebook Detox , state that Facebook has turned into a national  obsession in the संयुक्त राज्य , resulting in विशाल amounts of समय खोया  and encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast estimates Facebook has 138.9 million  मासिक अद्वितीय u.S.  visitors in May 2011 .
According to Social Media Today , in April 2010 an estimated 41.6 %  ( 129.5 लाख ) of the  U.S. population had a Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some regions , with the site losing 7 million active users in the  संयुक्त राज्य  and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial  पब्लिक offering on फ़रवरी 1 , 2012 , और  was headquartered in Menlo Park , California .
Facebook Inc. began selling stock to the  पब्लिक और व्यापार on the नैस्डैक  on May 18 , 2012 .
सल्फोनेमाइड  functional group
Hydrochlorothiazide is  a सल्फोनेमाइड  and a thiazide .
Furosemide is a  सल्फोनेमाइड , लकिन  not a thiazide .
Sulfonamide or  sulphonamide  is the basis of several groups of drugs .
The original antibacterial sulfonamides ( sometimes called sulfa drugs or  sulpha दवाएँ ) हैं सिंथेटिक रोगाणुरोधी  agents that contain the sulfonamide group .
Some sulfonamides are  भी विहीन of जीवाणुरोधी  activity , e.g. , the anticonvulsant sultiame .
The sulfonylureas  और thiazide diuretics हैं नए ड्रग समूह  based on the antibacterial sulfonamides .
Sulfa allergies are common ,  hence medications containing sulfonamides हैं विहित  carefully .
It is important to make a distinction between sulfa  दवाएँ और अन्य sulfur-containing दवाएँ और एडिटिव  , such as sulfates and sulfites , which are chemically unrelated to the sulfonamide group , and do not cause the same hypersensitivity reactions seen in the sulfonamides .
This  is  a list of characters from George Lopez .
Domestic geese ( Anser anser domesticus or Anser cygnoides ) are  domesticated धूसर geese ( either ग्रेलैग  Geese or Swan Geese ) kept as poultry for their meat , eggs , and down feathers since ancient times .
30  सेकेंड to मंगल is an अमरीकी  rock band from Los Angeles , formed in 1998 .
Since 2007 , the band has consisted of actor Jared Leto ( lead vocals , rhythm guitar , songwriter ) , Shannon Leto ( drums , percussion ) and Tomo Miličević  ( सीसे गिटार ,  keyboards ) .
Following the departure of Matt Wachter ( now of Angels & Airwaves ) in 2007 , Tim Kelleher became the bassist for the group , performing live only with both Jared and Miličević  रिकॉर्डिंग बास लिये स्टुडियो रिकार्डिंग , जबकि braxton olita ( keyboards  ) was added to the touring lineup in 2009 .
Previously , the group also  प्रदर्शित guitarists  Solon Bixler ( now of Great Northern ) and Kevin Drake ( now of Polaroid Kiss ) .
To date , 30 Seconds to Mars have released three studio albums – 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2002 ) , A Beautiful Lie ( 2005 ) , This Is War ( 2009 ) and  तीन विस्तारित plays – एओएल सत्र  Undercover ( 2007 ) , To the Edge of the Earth ( 2008 ) , and MTV Unplugged : 30 Seconds to Mars ( 2011 ) .
30 Seconds to Mars ' music has been associated mostly with neo-prog , progressive metal and post-grunge , but they have also  शामिल भावनाएं , screamo , स्पेस चट्टान और synthrock into उनके म्यूज़िक  .
They have been compared to Pink Floyd ( who were an influence on  उनके कार्य ) और औजार क्युकी of उनके उपयोग of philosophical  and spiritual lyrics , concept albums and their use of experimental music .
A Christmas Story is a 1983 American Christmas comedy film based on the short stories and semi-fictional anecdotes of author and raconteur Jean Shepherd , based on his book In God We  विश्वास , सब अन्य अदा नकदी , साथ कुछ तत्व  derived from Wanda Hickey 's Night of Golden Memories .
It was  निर्देशित by bob  Clark .
The film has since become a holiday classic and is shown numerous times on television during the Christmas season on  the संजाल tbs , प्रायः in a 24-hour मैराथन  .
In 2012 , the film was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the Library of  कॉंग्रेस लिये होने `` culturally , historically , or aesthetically  significant '' .
a जो  's Crab Shack branch in San Diego , CA .
The building was initially a rowing club and was later  परिवर्तित into the रेस्तरां  .
Joe 's Crab  shack is an अमरीकी  chain of beach-themed seafood casual dining restaurants owned by Ignite Restaurant Group .
Founded in Houston , Texas , the restaurant now operates locations all  आरपार the संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका  .
It serves  seafood और  American cuisine .
The restaurants also  have a तोहफा दूकान कि बिकता facetious  t-shirts featuring phrases advertising Joe 's seafood choices .
It is based in  ह्यूस्टन  , Texas .
New York City Cruise Liner Terminal in  नरक 's रसोईघर  at 52nd Street .
The New York Passenger Ship Terminal ( also known as the Luxury Liner Row or  मैनहटन क्रूज टर्मिनल or नई  York Cruise Terminal ) is a terminal for ocean-going passenger ships on Manhattan 's west side .
The terminal consists of North River Piers 88 , 90 , 92 and 94 on the Hudson River between  वेस्ट 46th और वेस्ट  54th Street .
( As a general rule , pier numbers in Manhattan can be determined by adding 40 to the  सम्बन्धित  cross-street . )
जहाजों अभी डॉक  at Piers 88 , 90 and 92 .
Pier 94 on the north side is  अभी प्रयुक्त लिये  exhibition space .
Pier 86 , once used by  संयुक्त राज्य लाइनों  , is now home to the USS Intrepid .
In 2003 , the terminal handled 900,000  यात्री  .
The city is forecasting that 1.5 million  होगा उपयोग the टर्मिनल  by 2017 .
the पियर हैं  long and apart .
They were first completed in 1935 to replace the  चेल्सी पियर as the नगर 's लक्ज़री  liner terminal .
The new  टर्मिनल  was built to handle bigger ships that had outgrown the Chelsea Piers .
The  पियर यहूद संवर  in 1970 and are currently undergoing another $ 150 million renovation .
The renovated plans call for it to handle  तीन विशाल जहाजों  at a time .
In doing renovations , the city is also considering   decommissioning Pier 92 .
Logo of the New York Cruise  terminal.for
decades the terminal was  the  only ocean-going passenger terminal in New York harbor .
With an upsurge in cruise ship traffic and the terminal 's ability to  हैंडल comfortably तभी तीन विशाल जहाजों at a समय , दो नई terminals have खोली  in the harbor — the Cape Liberty Cruise Port opened in 2004 in Bayonne , New Jersey ( used by Royal Caribbean Cruise Line , Celebrity Cruises and Azamara Cruises ) , and the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal ( used by the Queen Mary 2 and other ships of the Carnival Corporation cruise brands ) opened in 2006 in Brooklyn , New York .
The West Side Highway takes a small jog east from the piers to  नीचे वेस्ट 42nd गली क्युकी जब  the terminal was built land had to be taken away from Manhattan to allow for longer piers .
The US Army Corps of Engineers  ,  who control the waterfront dimension , would not extend the pierhead line farther into the river , so the city extended the pier by cutting away at the land .
The city earlier did this for  the चेल्सी पियर  ; however in Chelsea only landfill was taken away .
At the Passenger Terminal  वास्तविक मैनहटन  schist was taken away .
इससे डाउनस्ट्रीम  in the river
Many major passenger ships have docked there , including the RMS Queen Mary 2 and  स्वतंत्रता of the समंदर , पहले the  Brooklyn and Bayonne terminals opened .
the ss normandie  caught fire and subsequently capsized at its Pier 88 berth during World War II .
The Normandie , renamed USS  lafayette , झूठ capsized in the frozen  mud at Pier 88 in the winter of 1942
Norwegian Cruise  लकीर 's जल्द to be नवीनतम जलयान the नॉर्वेजियाई breakaway होगा  sail year-round out of the New York Passenger Ship Terminal .
The city will spend $ 4 million to renovate and upgrade the  क्रूज टर्मिनल  to accommodate the ship .
This is an overview of the regular ,  पुनरावर्ती  , and other characters of the TV series NCIS .
Christian right is a term used in the United States to describe  right-wing ईसाई राजनैतिक समूह कि हैं characterized  by their strong support of socially conservative policies .
Christian conservatives principally seek to apply their understanding of the teachings of Christianity to politics and public policy by proclaiming  the मान of those शिक्षाओं and/or by seeking to उपयोग those शिक्षाओं  to influence law and public policy .
In the U.S. , the Christian right is an informal coalition formed around a core of evangelical Protestants that draws ``  support इससे नीतियां रूढ़िवादी catholics  , Jews , Mormons , and occasionally secularists '' who share their goals .
the गति रै  its roots in American politics going back as far the 1940s and has been especially influential since the 1970s .
Their influence draws , in part , from grassroots activism as  खूब as उनके फ़ोकस on सोशल मुद्दे और क्षमता to  motivate the electorate around those issues .
The Christian right is notable today for advancing socially conservative  स्थितियाँ on मुद्दे सहित स्कूल दुआ , स्टेम कोशिका शोध , समलैंगिकता  , contraception , abortion , and pornography .
Although the Christian right is usually  संबद्ध साथ the u.S. , the गति रै महरूम a कुंजी फ़ैक्टर  in the politics of Canada , The Netherlands , Northern Ireland and Australia , among others .
Far East Movement ( stylized as Far★East Movement or  abbreviated  FM ) is an American hip hop band quartet based in Los Angeles .
The group formed in 2003 and consists of Kev Nish ( Kevin Nishimura ) ,  prohgress ( जेम्स roh ) , j-splif  ( Jae Choung ) , and DJ Virman ( Virman Coquia ) .
Far East Movement 's first claim to fame was their song `` Round Round '' featured in the  हॉलीवुड फिल्म , the तेज़ और the क्रोधित : टोकियो बहाव  , and its subsequent soundtrack , video game and DVD .
Since `` Round Round '' , the group has been featured on  विभिन्न संजाल shows सहित  , , Entourage , Gossip Girl , and Finishing the Game ( a featured film at Sundance 2007 ) .
Their single `` Like a G6 `` hit number one on  the बिलबोर्ड hot 100 चार्ट और on itunes  as well in late October 2010 .
Far East Movement also has the distinction of being the first Asian-American group to earn a # 1 hit on the  बिलबोर्ड hot 100  in the United States .
LR44 is the IEC designation for an alkaline 1.5  वोल्ट बटन कोशिका ,  commonly used in small LED flashlights , digital thermometers , calculators , calipers , watches , clocks , toys and laser pointers .
LR44  क्षारीय  cell
The battery nomenclature is defined by the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय विद्युततकनीकी आयोग ( आईईसी ) in इसके 60086-3 मानक ( प्राथमिक बैटरी  , part 3 Watch batteries ) .
The letter L indicates the electrochemical system used ; a  जस्ता ऋणात्मक एलेक्ट्रोड , मैंगनीज डाइऑक्साइड depolarizer और धनात्मक  electrode , and an alkaline electrolyte .
R44 indicates a round cell 11.4±0.2 mm diameter and 5.2±0.2 mm height as  पारिभाषित by the आईईसी मानक 60086  .
Manufacturers have their own part  संख्याएँ लिये आईईसी प्रकार  LR44 batteries including:
lr44 , lr44g  , LR44GD , LR44H
LR1154 , L1154 , L1154C ,  l1154f , l1154g  , L1154H
6135-99-792-8475 (  nsn )
1166a
AG13 , A613 , AG14 ,  ag-14 ,  G13A , G13-A
157 ,  303 , 357
A76 , GDA76 , GP76A , GPA7 , GPA75 ,  gpa76 , gps76A,
1128MP , 208-904 ,  a-76 , ca18 , ca19 , cr44 , d76a  , KA , KA76 , MS76H , PX76A , PX675A , RPX675 , RW82 , SB-F9 , V13GA
4.5-volt  , d , c , aa , aaa  , AAAA , A23 , 9-volt , CR2032 and LR44 batteries
Other  प्रकार of बैटरी  are or were made in the R44 size .
Formerly , mercury batteries were  बना as बटन कोशिकाएं  ( types MR44 and NR44 ) .
Zinc-air batteries  प्रकार pr44 आवश्यकता  air to work .
Silver-oxide batteries type  sr44 may provide  extra capacity compared to LR44 types but have slightly different voltage characteristics .
Performance of a device meant to use a silver-oxide battery may be degraded with  प्रतिस्थापन of  LR44 types .
निर्माता 's संख्याएँ  for silver oxide R44 size cells include:
sr44/sr44w/sr44sw
6135-99-651-3240  ( NSN )
sr1154
1107so
1131sop
sg13
s76
EPX76 (  energizer  )
303/357 (  d357h  )
Hurricane Katrina was the deadliest and most destructive Atlantic  hurricane of the 2005 अटलांटिक hurricane  season .
It was the  costliest प्राकृतिक विपत्ति ,  as well as one of the five deadliest hurricanes , in the history of the United States .
among अंकित अटलांटिक  hurricanes , it was the sixth strongest overall .
At least 1,833 people died in the hurricane and subsequent floods , making it the deadliest U.S. hurricane since the 1928 Okeechobee hurricane ;  कुल प्रॉपर्टी क्षति थी अनुमानित at $ 81 अरब ( 2005 usd ) , nearly ट्रिपल the  damage brought by Hurricane Andrew in 1992 .
Hurricane Katrina formed over the Bahamas on August 23 , 2005 and crossed  दक्षिणी फ्लोरिडा as a मॉडरेट श्रेणी 1 hurricane , causing  some deaths and flooding there before strengthening rapidly in the Gulf of Mexico .
The hurricane strengthened to a Category 5 hurricane over the warm Gulf water , but weakened before making  इसके दूसरी  landfall as a Category 3 hurricane on the morning of Monday , August 29 in southeast Louisiana .
It caused severe  विनाश साथ the गल्फ coast इससे सेंट्रल फ्लोरिडा  to Texas , much of it due to the storm surge .
The most significant number of deaths occurred in New Orleans , Louisiana ,  जिससे flooded as the तटबन्ध प्रणाली catastrophically  failed , in many cases hours after the storm had moved inland .
Eventually 80 % of the city and large tracts of neighboring parishes became flooded , and the  floodwaters lingered लिये सप्ताह .
However , the worst property  क्षति occurred in तटीय क्षेत्रों , ऐसे as सब मिसिसिपी  beachfront towns , which were flooded over 90 % in hours , as boats and casino barges rammed buildings , pushing cars and houses inland , with waters reaching 6–12 miles ( 10–19 km ) from the beach .
The hurricane surge protection failures in New Orleans are considered the worst civil engineering  विपत्ति in u.S. इतिहास और prompted a मुकदमा विरूद्ध the u.S. फौज corps of  Engineers ( USACE ) , the designers and builders of the levee system as mandated by the Flood Control Act of 1965 .
Responsibility for the failures and flooding was laid squarely on the Army  corps in जनवरी 2008 by न्यायधीश stanwood  Duval , U.S. District Court , but the federal agency could not be held financially liable due to sovereign immunity in the Flood Control Act of 1928 .
There was also an investigation of the  प्रतिक्रियाएँ इससे संघीय , राज्य और लोकल सरकारें  , resulting in the resignation of Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) director Michael D. Brown , and of New Orleans Police Department ( NOPD ) Superintendent Eddie Compass .
Several agencies including  the संयुक्त राज्य coast गार्ड ( uscg ) , नेशनल hurricane  Center ( NHC ) , and National Weather Service ( NWS ) were commended for their actions .
They provided accurate hurricane weather  ट्रैकिंग forecasts साथ sufficient  lead time .
Even the most insistent appeals from national , state and local  पब्लिक  officials to residents to evacuate before the storm did not warn that the levees could breach and fail .
U.S. debt from  1940 to  2011 .
Red lines indicate the `` debt held by the public ''  और ब्लैक लाइनों indicate the  total national debt or gross public debt .
The  अंतर is the `` intragovernmental कर्ज़ ,  '' which includes obligations to government programs such as Social Security .
Stated as a formula , National Debt = Debt held by the Public +  intragovernmental  Debt .
the दूसरी फलक  shows the two debt figures as a percentage of U.S. GDP ( dollar value of U.S. economic production for that year ) .
The top panel is deflated so every  साल is in 2010 डॉलर  .
The  संयुक्त राज्य पब्लिक कर्ज़ is the धन उधार  by the federal government of the United States through the issuing of securities by the Treasury and other federal government agencies .
US public debt consists of two  घटकs:
Debt held by the public includes Treasury securities held by investors outside the federal government , including that held by individuals , corporations , the Federal Reserve System and  विदेशी , राज्य और लोकल सरकारें  .
Debt held by government accounts or intragovernmental debt includes non-marketable Treasury securities held in accounts administered by the federal government that are owed to program  beneficiaries , ऐसे as the सोशल सुरक्षा विश्वास  Fund .
Debt held by government accounts represents the cumulative surpluses , including interest earnings , of these accounts that have been  invested in राजकोष प्रतिभूति  .
Public debt increases or decreases as a result of the annual unified budget deficit  or  surplus .
The federal government budget deficit or surplus is the  अंतर between  government receipts and spending , ignoring intra-governmental transfers .
However , some spending that is excluded from the deficit (  supplemental appropriations ) भी adds to the कर्ज़  .
Historically , the US public debt as a share of GDP increased  दौरान युद्धों और recessions  , and subsequently declined .
For example , debt held  by the पब्लिक as a share of  GDP peaked just after World War II ( 113 % of GDP in 1945 ) , but then fell over the following 30 years .
In recent decades , however , large budget deficits and the resulting increases in debt have led to concern about the  long-term स्थिरता of the संघीय  government 's fiscal policies .
On 2 April 2013 , debt held by the public  थी लगभग $ 11.959 खरब  or about 75 % of GDP .
Intragovernmental  holdings stood  at $ 4.846 trillion , giving a combined total public debt of $ 16.805 trillion .
As of January 2013  , $ 5.6 खरब or लगभग 47 % of the कर्ज़ आयोजित by the  public was owned by foreign investors , the largest of which were the People 's Republic of China and Japan at just over $ 1.1 trillion each .
In basketball , an assist is  attributed to a खिलाड़ी जो गुजरता the बॉल to a teammate in a रास्ता कि लीड  to a score by field goal , meaning that he or she was `` assisting '' in the basket .
There is some  निर्णय शामिल in deciding  whether a passer should be credited with an assist .
An assist can  be scored लिये the passer  even if the player who receives the pass makes a basket after dribbling the ball .
However , the original definition of an assist did not include such situations , so the comparison of assist statistics across eras is a  जटिल पदार्थ  .
Only the pass directly before the score may be counted as an assist , so no more than one assist can be recorded per field  लक्ष्य ( नापसंद in अन्य  sports , such as ice hockey ) .
A pass that leads to a shooting foul and scoring by free throws does not count as an assist in the NBA , but does in FIBA play ( only one  assist is awarded प्रति नियत of फ़्री throws in  which at least one free throw is made ) .
Point guards tend to get  the सबसे assists प्रति खेल (  apg ) , as their role is primarily that of a passer and ballhandler .
Centers tend to get fewer assists , but centers with good floor  उपस्थिति और अदालत दृष्टि can  dominate a team by assisting .
Being inside the key , the center often has the best angles and  the बेहतरीन स्थिति लिये `` बर्तन '' और अन्य छोटी  passes in the scoring area .
बीच wilt चेम्बरलेन  led the NBA in assists in 1968 .
A strong center with inside-scoring prowess , such as former NBA  बीच hakeem olajuwon , can भी  be an effective assistor because the defense 's double-teaming tends to open up offense in the form of shooters .
The NBA single-game assist record is 30 , held by  स्कॉट skiles of the ऑरलैंडो  Magic against the Denver Nuggets , on December 30 , 1990 .
The  एनबीए रिकार्ड लिये सबसे  career assists is held by John Stockton with 15,806 .
The mill or mille ( ) ( sometimes mil in the UK , when  discussing प्रॉपर्टी कर in the संयुक्त राज्य , or previously in साइप्रस और माल्टा ) is a now-abstract  unit of currency used sometimes in accounting .
In the United States , it is a notional unit equivalent to of a  संयुक्त राज्य डालर ( a दसवाँ  of a cent ) .
In the United Kingdom it was proposed during  the दशकों of चर्चा on  the decimalization of the pound as a division of the pound sterling .
Several other  मुद्राएँ प्रयुक्त  the mill , such as the Maltese lira .
The term comes from the Latin `` millesimum ''  , अर्थ  `` thousandth part '' .
the greco-persian युद्धों ( भी  often called the Persian Wars ) were a series of conflicts between the Achaemenid Empire of Persia and city-states of the Hellenic world that started in 499 BC and lasted until 449 BC .
The  टक्कर between  the fractious political world of the Greeks and the enormous empire of the Persians began when Cyrus the Great conquered Ionia in 547 BC .
Struggling to rule the independent-minded cities of  ionia , the फारसियों नियुक्त  tyrants to rule each of them .
This would prove to be the source of much trouble  लिये the यूनानियों और फारसियों  alike .
In 499 BC , the then tyrant of Miletus , Aristagoras , embarked on an expedition to conquer the island of Naxos ,  साथ पारसी support ; however , the expedition  was a debacle and , pre-empting his dismissal , Aristagoras incited all of Hellenic Asia Minor into rebellion against the Persians .
This was the beginning of the Ionian Revolt , which would last until 493 BC  , progressively आरेखण अधिक regions  of Asia Minor into the conflict .
Aristagoras secured military support from Athens and Eretria , and in 498 BC  ये शक्तियां helped to कैप्चर और बर्न the पारसी  regional capital of Sardis .
The Persian king Darius the Great vowed to  have बदला  on Athens and Eretria for this act .
The revolt continued , with the two sides  effectively stalemated throughout  497–495 BC .
In 494 BC , the Persians regrouped ,  और attacked the  epicentre of the revolt in Miletus .
At the Battle of Lade , the Ionians suffered a decisive defeat , and the  विद्रोह collapsed , साथ the फाइनल सदस्यों  being stamped out the following year .
Seeking  to सुरक्षित उसके साम्राज्य इससे  further revolts and from the interference of the mainland Greeks , Darius embarked on a scheme to conquer Greece and to punish Athens and Eretria for burning Sardis .
The first Persian invasion of Greece began in 492 BC ,  साथ the पारसी सामान्य mardonius  conquering Thrace and Macedon before several mishaps forced an early end to the campaign .
In 490 BC a second force  थी भेजा to यूनानियों ,  this time across the Aegean Sea , under the command of Datis and Artaphernes .
This expedition subjugated the Cyclades  , पहले besieging ,  capturing and razing Eretria .
However , while en route to attack Athens , the Persian force was decisively defeated by the Athenians at the Battle of  मैराथन , समाप्ति पारसी  efforts for the time being .
Darius then began to plan to complete the conquest of  यूनानियों , लकिन died in 486 bc और  responsibility for the conquest passed to his son Xerxes I .
In 480 BC , Xerxes personally led the second Persian invasion of  यूनानियों साथ एक of the largest प्राचीन  armies ever assembled .
Victory over the 'Allied ' Greek states ( led by Sparta  और एथेंस ) at the बैटल of thermopylae  allowed the Persians to torch Athens and overrun most of Greece .
However , while seeking to destroy the combined Greek fleet , the Persians suffered a severe defeat at  the बैटल of  Salamis .
The following year , the confederated Greeks went on the offensive , defeating the Persian army at  the बैटल of plataea , और समाप्ति  the invasion of Greece .
The allied Greeks followed up their success by destroying the rest of the Persian fleet at the Battle  of mycale , पहले expelling पारसी garrisons इससे sestos ( 479 bc  ) and Byzantium ( 478 BC ) .
The actions of the general Pausanias at the siege  of byzantium alienated अनेक of the यूनानी  states from the Spartans , and the anti-Persian alliance was therefore reconstituted around Athenian leadership , as the so-called Delian League .
The Delian League continued to campaign against Persia for the next three decades , beginning with the expulsion of the remaining Persian  garrisons इससे यूरोपीय  .
At the Battle of the Eurymedon in 466 BC , the League won a double victory  कि आखिरकार secured स्वतंत्रता  for the cities of Ionia .
However  , the लीग 's भागीदारी  in an Egyptian revolt ( from 460–454 BC ) resulted in a disastrous defeat , and further campaigning was suspended .
A fleet was sent to Cyprus in 451 BC , but achieved little , and when it withdrew the  greco-persian युद्धों खींचा to  a quiet end .
Some historical  स्त्रोत सुझाएँ the समाप्त of hostilities  was marked by a peace treaty between Athens and Persia , the so-called Peace of Callias .
hooverville  near Portland , Oregon
A `` Hooverville '' is the popular  नाम लिये shanty कस्बों निर्मित by बेघर  people during the Great Depression .
वे यहूद नामित बाद हर्बर्ट  Hoover , who was President of the United States during the onset of the Depression and widely blamed for it .
The term  थी coined by चार्ल्स माइकेल्सन  , publicity chief of the Democratic National Committee .
Matthew Michael Hasselbeck ( born September 25  , 1975 ) is an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल  quarterback for the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He was drafted in the sixth round of the 1998  एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट by the  Green Bay Packers .
After a season on the practice  स्क्वाड और दो सीज़न बैकिंग up ब्रेट  Favre , he was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in 2001 .
Hasselbeck gained the starting role in 2003 , and led Seattle to six playoff appearances and a Super Bowl appearance ; he was selected to three Pro Bowls and an  all-pro चयन  .
Following  टेन सीज़न साथ the  Seahawks , Hasselbeck joined the Tennessee Titans in 2011 .
Hasselbeck then signed a contract with the  इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस in 2013 कम than 24 घंटों  after being released by the Tennessee Titans .
ICT  is inevitably सम्बन्धित  to the computer network .
Information and Communications Technology or ( ICT ) , is often used as an extended synonym for information  प्रौद्योगिकी ( it ) , लकिन is a अधिक विशिष्ट पद कि तनावों the भूमिका of एकीकृत संचार और the संयोजन of दूरसंचार ( टेलीफोन लाइनों और बेतार सिग्नल ) , कंप्यूटर  as well as necessary enterprise software , middleware , storage , and audio-visual systems , which enable users to access , store , transmit , and manipulate information .
The phrase ICT had been used by academic researchers since the 1980s , but it became popular after it was used in a report to the UK government by Dennis Stevenson in 1997 and in the revised National Curriculum  लिये इंग्लैण्ड , वेल्स और उत्तरी आयरलैंड  in 2000 .
The term ICT is now also used to refer to the convergence of audio-visual and telephone  संजाल साथ कंप्यूटर संजाल  through a single cabling or link system .
There are large economic incentives ( huge cost savings due to elimination of the  टेलीफोन संजाल ) to विलय the audio-visual  , building management and telephone network with the computer network system using a single unified system of cabling , signal distribution and management .
The term Infocommunications is used in some cases as a shorter  रूप of सूचना और संचार  ( s ) technology .
In  फैक्ट infocommunications is the विस्तार of दूरसंचार  with information processing and content handling functions on a common digital technology base .
For a  तुलना of ये और  other terms , see .
लिये आईसीटी  Development Index around the world , see .
This is a list of characters from  जार्ज  Lopez .
A schematic presentation of the plum pudding model of the atom ; in  thomson 's गणितीय मॉडल the `` corpuscles '' (  or modern electrons ) were arranged non-randomly , in rotating rings
The  वर्तमान मॉडल of the sub-atomic  structure involves a dense nucleus surrounded by a probabilistic `` cloud '' of electrons
The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J. Thomson , who discovered the electron in 1897 , was  प्रस्तावित in 1904 पहले the डिस्कवरी of the  atomic nucleus in order to add the electron to the atomic model .
In this model , the atom is composed of electrons ( which Thomson still called `` corpuscles '' , though  G. J. stoney था प्रस्तावित कि अणु of विद्युत be पुकारा electrons in 1894 ) घिरी by a सूप of धनात्मक चार्ज to संतुलन  the electrons ' negative charges , like negatively charged `` plums `` surrounded by positively charged `` pudding `` .
The electrons ( as we know them today ) were thought to be positioned throughout  the अणु , लकिन साथ अनेक structures संभावित  for positioning multiple electrons , particularly rotating rings of electrons ( see below ) .
Instead of a soup , the atom was also sometimes  कहा to have था a `` बादल  '' of positive charge .
With this model , Thomson abandoned his earlier `` nebular atom '' hypothesis in which  the अणु थी रचित of  immaterial vortices .
Now , at least part of the atom was to be composed of  thomson 's particulate ऋणात्मक corpuscles  , although the rest of the positively charged part of the atom remained somewhat nebulous and ill-defined .
The 1904 Thomson model was disproved by the 1909 gold foil experiment of Hans  geiger और अर्नेस्ट मार्सडेन  .
This was interpreted  by अर्नेस्ट  Rutherford in 1911
to imply a very small nucleus of the atom containing a  बहुत ऊँची धनात्मक चार्ज ( in the मामला of  gold , enough to balance about 100 electrons ) , thus leading to the Rutherford model of the atom .
Although gold has an  परमाणु क्रमांक of 79 , तत्काल बाद  Rutherford 's paper appeared in 1911 Antonius Van den Broek made the intuitive suggestion that atomic number is nuclear charge .
the पदार्थ जरूरी  experiment to decide .
Henry Moseley 's  कार्य दिखाया experimentally in 1913 ( देखिए moseley 's विधि ) कि  the effective nuclear charge was very close to the atomic number ( Moseley found only one unit difference ) , and Moseley referenced only the papers of Van den Broek and Rutherford .
This work culminated in the solar-system-like ( but quantum-limited ) Bohr model of the atom in the same year , in which a nucleus containing an atomic number of positive charge is  घिरी by an बराबर क्रमांक of electrons in कक्षीय शेल  .
Bohr had  भी प्रेरित  Moseley 's work .
Thomson 's model was compared ( though not by  thomson ) to a अंग्रेजों मिठाई  called plum pudding , hence the name .
Thomson 's paper was published in the March 1904 edition of the Philosophical Magazine , the leading British  विज्ञान  journal of the day .
In  thomson 's दृश्य : ... the  atoms of the elements consist of a number of negatively electrified corpuscles enclosed in a sphere of uniform positive electrification , ...
In this model , the electrons were free to rotate within the  blob or बादल of धनात्मक पदार्थ  .
These orbits were stabilized in the model by the fact that when an electron moved farther from the center of the positive cloud , it felt a larger net positive inward force , because there was more material of opposite charge , inside its orbit ( see  गाउस 's विधि  ) .
In Thomson 's model , electrons were free to rotate  in बजती जिससे यहूद further stabilized by interactions  between the electrons , and spectra were to be accounted for by energy differences of different ring orbits .
Thomson  attempted to मेक उसके मॉडल  account for some of the major spectral lines known for some elements , but was not notably successful at this .
Still , Thomson 's model ( along with a similar Saturnian ring model for atomic  electrons , भी  put forward in 1904 by Nagaoka after James Clerk Maxwell 's model of Saturn 's rings ) , were earlier harbingers of the later and more successful solar-system-like Bohr model of the atom .
ठेठ  strip of bacon .
Bacon is a  cured मांस prepared  from a pig .
It is first cured using large  quantities of नमक , either in a brine  or in a dry packing ; the result is fresh bacon ( also known as green bacon ) .
Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or months in cold air , or it may be  boiled or स्मोक्ड  .
Fresh and dried  बेकन is typically  cooked before eating .
boiled बेकन is तैयार to खा , as is कुछ  smoked bacon , but may be cooked further before eating .
Bacon is prepared from  अनेक  different cuts of meat .
It is usually made from side and back cuts of pork , except in the United States , where it  is लगभग सदा prepared इससे पोर्क पेट  ( typically referred to as `` streaky '' , `` fatty '' , or `` American style '' outside of the US and Canada ) .
The side cut has  अधिक मांस और  less fat than the belly .
Bacon may be prepared from either of two distinct back cuts : fatback , which is almost pure fat ,  और पोर्क loin , जिससे is बहुत झुकना  .
Bacon-cured  पोर्क loin is ज्ञात  as back bacon .
uncooked पोर्क  belly bacon strips .
Bacon may be eaten smoked , boiled , fried , baked , or  ग्रील्ड , or प्रयुक्त as a नाबालिग संघटक  to flavor dishes .
Bacon is also used for  barding और larding roasts , विशेषकर  game , e.g . venison , pheasant .
The word is derived from the Old High German bacho , meaning `` buttock '' , `` ham '' or `` side of bacon '' , and  cognate साथ the बूढ़ा फ्रेंच बेकन  .
In continental Europe , this part of the pig is usually not smoked like bacon is in the United States ; it  is प्रयुक्त primarily in घन ( lardons ) as a कुकिंग संघटक ,  valued both as a source of fat and for its flavor .
In Italy , this is called pancetta and is  प्रायः पकाया in छोटी घन or परोसा  uncooked and thinly sliced as part of an antipasto .
Meat from other animals , such  as बीफ , मेमने  , chicken , goat , or turkey , may also be cut , cured , or otherwise prepared to resemble bacon , and may even be referred to as `` bacon '' .
Such use is common in areas with significant  यहूदी और मुस्लिम  populations .
The USDA defines bacon as `` the cured  पेट of a स्वाइन  carcass '' ; other cuts and characteristics must be separately qualified ( e.g. , `` smoked pork loin bacon '' ) .
For safety , bacon must be treated to prevent trichinosis , caused by  trichinella , a parasitic roundworm जिससे can be नष्ट  by heating , freezing , drying , or smoking .
Bacon is distinguished from salt pork  और हैम by मतभेद in the  brine ( or dry packing ) .
Bacon brine  रै added curing  ingredients , most notably sodium nitrite , and occasionally sodium nitrate or potassium nitrate ( saltpeter ) ; sodium ascorbate or erythorbate are added to accelerate curing and stabilize color .
Flavorings such  as भूरा शुगर  or maple are used for some products .
If used ,  सोडियम polyphosphates हैं  added to improve sliceability and reduce spattering when the bacon is pan fried .
Today , a brine for ham , but not bacon , includes a large  राशि of शुगर .
Historically , `` ham '' and `` bacon '' referred to different cuts of meat that were  brined or packed identically , प्रायः  together in the same barrel .
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) ( , codified in part at ) is a federal law  जिससे establishes न्यूनतम मानकों लिये पेंशन योजनाएँ in निजी उद्योग और provides लिये extensive नियम on the संघीय आय  tax effects of transactions associated with employee benefit plans .
ERISA was enacted to protect the  रूचि of कर्मचारी लाभ  plan participants and their beneficiaries by:
Requiring the  प्रकटीकरण of वित्तीय  and other information concerning the plan to beneficiaries ;
establishing मानकों  of conduct for plan fiduciaries ;
Providing for appropriate remedies and access to  the संघीय न्यायालयों  .
ERISA is sometimes used  to refer to the पूरा देह of कानून regulating कर्मचारी लाभ योजनाएँ , जिससे  are found mainly in the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA itself .
Responsibility for the interpretation and enforcement of ERISA is divided  among the विभाग of मजदूर , the विभाग of  the Treasury ( particularly the Internal Revenue Service ) , and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation .
Illegal immigration to the United States is the act of  विदेशी नागरिकों प्रवेश the संयुक्त राज्य , बगैर सरकारी अनुमति  and in violation of United States nationality law , or staying beyond the termination date of a visa , also in violation of the law .
A warning sign at the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय boundary between the संयुक्त राज्य  and Canada in Point Roberts , Washington .
A much  अलग दृष्टिकोण at the  U.S.-Mexico border near El Paso , Texas
The undocumented immigrant population of the United States in 2008 was estimated by the Center for  आव्रजन अध्ययन to be परिचय 11 लाख लोगों  , down from 12.5 million people in 2007 .
Other estimates  दायरा इससे 7 to 20  million .
According to a 2005 Pew Hispanic Center report , 56 %  of undocumented आप्रवासियों यहूद इससे मैक्सिको ; 22 % यहूद इससे  other Latin American countries ; 13 % were from Asia ; 6 % were from Europe and Canada ; and 3 % were from Africa and the rest of the world .
Alvin  स्वतंत्र स्कूल ज़िला is a स्कूल  district based in Alvin , Texas ( USA ) .
Alvin ISD is a large suburban school district south of Houston in the communities of Alvin , Manvel , Pearland ,  hillcrest , rosharon , आयोवा  Colony , Liverpool , and Amsterdam .
AISD serves Pearland city 's rapidly growing western portion of the city including the new large  master-planned समुदायों of छाया क्रीक ranch , दक्षिण कांटा ,  and Southern Trails .
Alvin ISD covers  of जमीन  .
In human  anatomy , the ulnar तंत्रिका  is a nerve which runs near the ulna bone .
The ulnar collateral  स्नायु  of elbow joint is in relation with the ulnar nerve .
The nerve is the  largest unprotected तंत्रिका in the इंसान देह ( अर्थ  unprotected by muscle or bone ) , so injury is common .
This nerve is directly connected to the little finger , and the adjacent half of the ring  उंगली , supplying the palmar पक्ष of ये उंगलियाँ , सहित दोनो सामने और वापस of the  tips , perhaps as far back as the fingernail beds .
One method  of injuring the तंत्रिका is to स्ट्राइक  the medial epicondyle of the humerus from posteriorly , or inferiorly with the elbow flexed .
The  ulnar तंत्रिका is फंस between  the bone and the overlying skin at this point .
This is commonly  referred to as bumping  one 's `` funny bone '' .
This name is thought to be a pun ,  आधारित on the ध्वनि प्रतिरूप between the नाम of the अस्थि of  the upper arm , the `` humerus `` and the word `` humorous `` .
Alternatively ,  according to the ऑक्सफोर्ड अंग्रेज़ी शब्दकोष  it may refer to `` the peculiar sensation experienced when it is struck '' .
Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , shortened  हॉग्वार्ट्स , is a fictional अंग्रेजों स्कूल  of magic for students aged eleven to eighteen , and is the primary setting for the first six books in J.K. Rowling 's Harry Potter series .
Rowling has suggested that she may have inadvertently taken the name from the hogwort plant ( Croton capitatus ) , which she had seen at Kew Gardens some time before writing the series , although the names `` The Hogwarts '' and `` Hoggwart '' appear in the 1954 Nigel Molesworth book  कैसा to be topp by geoffrey willans  .
Hogwarts school was voted as the 36th best Scottish educational  स्थापना in a  2008 online ranking , outranking Edinburgh 's Loretto School .
According to a director of the Independent Schools   Network Rankings , it was added to the schools listing `` for fun '' and was then voted on .
The U.S. subprime mortgage crisis was a set of events  और शर्तें कि led to a वित्तीय संकट और subsequent  recession that began in 2008 .
It was characterized  by a वृद्धि in subprime बंधक delinquencies  and foreclosures , and the resulting decline of securities backed by said mortgages .
Several major financial institutions collapsed in September 2008 , with significant disruption in the flow of credit to businesses and consumers  और the onset of a कठोर  global recession .
There were many causes of the crisis ,  साथ टीकाकारों assigning अलग स्तर of दोष to वित्तीय संस्थानों  , regulators , credit agencies , government housing policies , and consumers , among others .
A proximate cause was the rise in subprime  lending .
The percentage of lower-quality subprime mortgages originated during a given year rose from the historical 8 % or lower range to approximately 20 % from 2004 to 2006 , with much higher ratios  in कुछ  parts of the U.S .
A high percentage of these subprime mortgages  , over 90 % in 2006 लिये उदाहरण , यहूद adjustable-rate  mortgages .
These two changes were part of a broader trend of lowered lending  मानकों और higher-risk बंधक उत्पाद  .
Further , U.S. households had become increasingly indebted , with the ratio of debt to disposable personal  आय उठती इससे  77 % in 1990 to 127 % at the end of 2007 , much of this increase mortgage-related .
When U.S. home prices declined steeply after peaking in  mid-2006 , borrowers ' क्षमता to  refinance their loans became more difficult .
As  adjustable-rate mortgages began to रीसेट at उच्चतर ब्याज  rates ( causing higher monthly payments ) , mortgage delinquencies soared .
Securities backed with mortgages , including  subprime mortgages , widely आयोजित by वित्तीय  firms globally , lost most of their value .
Global investors also drastically reduced purchases of mortgage-backed debt and other securities as part of a  मनाही in the क्षमता और willingness of the निजी वित्तीय प्रणाली  to support lending .
Concerns about the soundness of U.S.  क्रेडिट और वित्तीय बाज़ार led  to tightening credit around the world and slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe .
The crisis had severe ,  long-lasting consequences लिये the u.S. और यूरोपीय  economies .
The U.S. entered a deep recession , with nearly 9 million jobs lost during 2008 and  2009 , roughly 6 % of the  workforce .
U.S. housing prices fell nearly 30 % on average and the U.S. stock  मार्केट गिरी लगभग  50 % by early 2009 .
As of early 2013 , the U.S. stock market had  बरामद to इसके  pre-crisis peak but housing prices remained near their low point and unemployment remained elevated .
Economic growth remained  नीचे pre-crisis  levels .
Europe  भी जारी  to struggle with its own economic crisis .
Carl Jung in  1910  .
Myers and Briggs extrapolated  उनके mbti सिद्धान्त इससे जंग 's कृतियाँ  in his book Psychological Types .
The Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ( MBTI ) assessment is a psychometric  प्रश्नावली designed to माप मनोवैज्ञानिक वरीयताओं in कैसा  people perceive the world and make decisions .
These preferences were extrapolated from the typological theories proposed by Carl Gustav  जंग और पहला प्रकाशित in उसके 1921 किताब  Psychological Types ( English edition , 1923 ) .
Jung theorized that there are four principal psychological  कृत्यों by जिससे we अनुभव the संसार : सनसनी  , intuition , feeling , and thinking .
One of these four  कृत्यों is प्रबल सबसे  of the time .
The original developers of the personality inventory were Katharine Cook Briggs and her daughter , Isabel Briggs Myers ; these two , having  पढ़ाई extensively the कार्य of जंग , turned उनके ब्याज  of human behavior into a devotion of turning the theory of psychological types to practical use .
They began creating the indicator  दौरान संसार  War II , believing that a knowledge of personality preferences would help women who were entering the industrial workforce for the first time to identify the sort of war-time jobs that would be `` most comfortable and effective '' .
The initial questionnaire grew into the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ,  जिससे थी पहला  published in 1962 .
The  mbti focuses on सामान्य populations  and emphasizes the value of naturally occurring differences .
Robert Kaplan and Dennis Saccuzzo believe `` the underlying assumption of the MBTI is that we all have specific preferences in the way we construe our experiences , and these  वरीयताओं underlie हमारी रूचि , needs , मान , और प्रेरणा  '' ( p. 499 ) .
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga , from her second  स्टुडियो एल्बम  Born This Way ( 2011 ) .
It was released by Interscope  रिकॉर्ड on अप्रैल 15 , 2011 , चार  days ahead of its scheduled release .
Written and  उत्पादित by महिला गागा और redone , `` यहूदा  '' is a dance and electro house song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her .
It embodies the incidents that have haunted Gaga  in the पास्ट , और इसके कोर अर्थ  refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring one 's inner darkness in order to  लाओ oneself  into the light .
The artwork for the single was designed by  गागा in microsoft  Word .
In spite of a polarizing  प्रभाव on अनेक धार्मिक समूह , the सोंग थी generally  well received by critics , who likened the song to `` Bad Romance `` with some noting it should have been the album 's lead single .
The song has a similar sound to Gaga 's previous RedOne-produced  ट्रैक्स , सहित  `` Poker Face `` , `` LoveGame `` , `` Bad Romance '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
It  contains तीन पृथक  hooks and a house -influenced break down .
Gaga explained that the lines spoken during the breakdown talk about her as beyond redemption  , regarding the परंपरागत दृश्य  of what a woman should be .
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening , but was less successful  commercially  in comparison to Gaga 's previous singles .
The song reached the top ten of the charts in most major music  बाज़ार , और भी  reached the top of the charts in South Korea .
A music video for the song was filmed in April  2011 , co-directed by  Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus .
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus played Judas Iscariot  और गागा निभाई मरियम  Magdalene .
The video portrays them as modern day  प्रचारकों going to जेरूसलम  .
It included the Biblical story of Judas  betraying  Jesus , and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged  उपयोग of धार्मिक imagery और उसके भूमिका in  the video .
However , critics generally praised the  वीडियो , नहीं ढूंढना  any offensive content .
The video was nominated for two awards at  the 2011 एमटीवी वीडियो म्यूज़िक  Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows , including The Graham Norton Show , Saturday Night Live , Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '' ,  the फ्रेंच x फ़ैक्टर as खूब as on the एलेन  DeGeneres Show .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 , 1939April 1 , 1984  ) , born मारविन pentz gay , jr. , थी an अमरीकी singer-songwriter  and musician .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string of hits including `` How Sweet It Is ( To Be Loved By You ) `` and `` I Heard It Through the  grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम कुएं और tammi terrell , बाद  earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It  on और became among the पहला कलाकारों in motown to ब्रेक  away from the reins of its production company .
gaye 's बाद रिकार्डिंग बहकावे  several R & B subgenres such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s , Gaye  released the 1982 ग्रैमी  Award-winning hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album .
Since his death in 1984 , Gaye has been posthumously honored by many institutions ,  सहित the ग्रैमी आजीवन उपलब्धि पुरस्कार और the चट्टान और फेंकें  Hall of Fame .
The Academy Award  लिये बेहतरीन चित्र is एक of  the Academy Awards of Merit presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) to producers working in the motion picture industry and is the only category in which every member is eligible to nominate for .
Best Picture is considered the most important of the Academy Awards , as it represents all the directing , acting  , म्यूज़िक composing , लिखने , संपादन और अन्य प्रयत्न  put forth into a film .
Consequently , Best Picture is the final award  और the निष्कर्ष of the सालाना  Academy Awards ceremony .
The Grand Staircase columns at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles , where the Academy Awards  ceremonies have महरूम आयोजित चूंकि 2002  , showcase every film that has won the Best Picture title since the award 's inception 85 years ago .
Heavy Rain is an interactive drama action-adventure video game created by French  डेवलपर quantic सपना exclusively  for the PlayStation 3 .
The game is written and directed by Quantic Dream 's  संस्थापक और सीईओ दाउद  Cage .
Heavy Rains story is a dramatic  थ्रिलर modelled बाद फिल्मी noir , featuring चार protagonists  involved with the mystery of the Origami Killer , a serial killer who uses extended periods of rainfall to drown his victims .
Ethan Mars is  trying to सहेजें उसके बेटे इससे होने the अगला शिकार , जबकि investigative पत्रकार  Madison Paige , FBI profiler Norman Jayden , and private detective Scott Shelby are each trying to track down clues to the Origami Killer 's identity .
The player interacts with the game by performing actions highlighted on screen related to motions on  the नियंत्रक , और in कुछ मामले , performing a श्रेणी  of quick time events during fast-paced action sequences .
The player 's decisions and actions during the  खेल होगा affect the कथा  .
The main  वर्ण can be मारे , और निश्चित  actions may lead to different scenes and endings .
A playable demo was released on 11  फ़रवरी 2010  .
The demo was released prior to this date for people who  took भाग in a चार दिन चुनौती  on 5 February 2010 .
A patch to allow use of the PlayStation Move  नियंत्रक to खेल the खेल  was released in September 2010 .
भारी बरसात थी  critically acclaimed and has sold over two million copies .
It won 2010 's Game of the Year from CNN and  गेमिंग संघ , और बेहतरीन ps3 खेल of  2010 by GameSpy and IGN .
A modified version of the game was released  titled भारी बरसात संस्करण modifiée exclusively in फ़्रांस , aimed towards a younger दर्शक  .
In 2010 , the game was included in the book 1001  वीडियो खेल तुम  Must Play Before You Die .
Total superannuation industry  देनदारी : सदस्यों निधि और  reserves ( A $ millions ) since 1988 .
सालाना कुल superannuation  industry asset growth 1996-2005 .
superannuation in ऑस्ट्रेलिया refers to the इंतजाम  which people make in Australia to have funds available for them in retirement .
In Australia , superannuation arrangements are government-supported and  प्रोत्साहित , और न्यूनतम प्रावधानों  are compulsory for employees .
For example , employers are required to pay a proportion of an employee 's salaries  और मजदूरी ( फिलहाल  9 % ) into a superannuation fund , but people are encouraged to put aside additional funds into superannuation .
The minimum obligation required by  नियोक्ता  is set to increase to 12 % gradually stepping annually from 2013 to 2020 .
An individual can  withdraw निधि आउट of a superannuation निधि जब the व्यक्ति meets एक  of the conditions of release contained in Schedule 1 of the Superannuation Industry ( Supervision ) Regulations 1994 .
This is a list of the characters from the  अमरीकी comedy-drama  television series The Game .
Electoral College map showing the  परिणाम of the 2012 u.S.  presidential election .
President Barack Obama ( D - IL ) won the popular vote in 26 states and the District of Columbia ( denoted in blue ) to  कैप्चर 332 चुनावी मत  .
Former Governor Mitt Romney ( R - MA ) won  the लोकप्रिय vote in 24  states ( denoted in red ) to capture 206 electoral votes .
Cartogram representation of the Electoral College vote  लिये the 2012 चुनाव  , with each square representing one electoral vote .
The United States Electoral College is the institution that officially elects the President and  वाइस अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य प्रत्येक चार  years .
The President and Vice President are not  निर्वाचित सीधे by  the voters .
Instead , they are elected by `` electors '' who are chosen by popular vote on a  state-by-state  basis .
Electors are apportioned to each state and the  ज़िला of कोलंबिया , लकिन नहीं to territorial  possessions of the United States , such as Puerto Rico and Guam .
The number  of निर्वाचक in प्रत्येक  state is equal to the number of members of Congress to which the state is entitled .
The Twenty-third  amendment रै सदा  resulted in the District of Columbia having three electors .
There are 538 electors , based on there being 435 representatives and 100 senators , plus the  तीन निर्वाचक इससे the ज़िला of कोलंबिया  .
Electors are pledged to particular presidential and vice presidential candidates , though  unpledged निर्वाचक हैं संभावित  .
In all states , except Maine  और नेब्रास्का , निर्वाचक हैं  elected on a `` winner-take-all '' basis .
That is , all electors pledged to the presidential candidate who  विन्स the सबसे मत in a राज्य  become electors for that state .
Maine and Nebraska use the `` congressional district method '' , selecting one elector within each  congressional ज़िला by लोकप्रिय  vote and selecting the remaining two electors by a statewide popular vote .
Although no elector is required by federal law to honor a pledge , there have only been very  few अवसरों जब an elector  voted contrary to a pledge .
The Twelfth Amendment specifies how a President and Vice President are elected and requires each elector to  डाल एक vote लिये अध्यक्ष  and another vote for Vice President .
Critics argue that the Electoral College is inherently  undemocratic और देता झूले राज्य अनुपातहीन influence in electing  the President and Vice President .
The  चुनावी कॉलेज देता a न्यूमेरिक लाभ in the चुनाव of the अध्यक्ष to the छोटी राज्य  , as the minimum number of electors for the small states is three compared to one for the election of representatives .
On the other hand , the winner-take-all method of  मतदान favors the larger  states .
A number of constitutional amendments have been proposed seeking to  alter the चुनावी कॉलेज or बदलें it साथ a सीधा लोकप्रिय  vote .
Barack Hussein Obama II ( ; born August 4 , 1961 ) is the 44th and current President of the  संयुक्त राज्य , the पहला अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी  to hold the office .
Born in  होनोलूलू , हवाई , ओबामा is a ग्रैजुएट  of Columbia University and Harvard Law School , where he was president of the Harvard Law Review .
He was a community organizer in Chicago  पहले कमाई उसके विधि उपाधि  .
He worked as a civil rights attorney in Chicago and taught constitutional law  at the विश्वविद्यालयों of शिकागो  Law School from 1992 to 2004 .
He served three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004 ,  कार्यशील unsuccessfully लिये the संयुक्त  States House of Representatives in 2000 .
In 2004 , Obama received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate  साथ उसके विजय in the कूच लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी प्राथमिक , उसके keynote पता at the लोकतांत्रिक नेशनल सम्मेलन in जुलाई , और  his election to the Senate in November .
He began his  अध्यक्षीय अभियान in 2007 , और in 2008 , बाद a बंद प्राथमिक  campaign against Hillary Rodham Clinton , he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination .
He then defeated Republican  nominee जॉन मैक्केन in  the general election , and was inaugurated as president on January 20 , 2009 .
Nine months later , Obama  थी नामित the 2009  Nobel Peace Prize laureate .
He was re-elected president in November 2012 , defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney , and  थी sworn in लिये a दूसरी  term on January 20 , 2013 .
Early in his first term in office , Obama signed  into विधि आर्थिक stimulus विधान in जवाब to  the Great Recession in the form of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Tax Relief , Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization , and Job Creation Act of 2010 .
Other major domestic initiatives in his presidency include the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act , often referred to as `` Obamacare '' ; the Dodd–Frank Wall  गली सुधार और उपभोक्ता सुरक्षा अधिनियम ; the  Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 ; the Budget Control Act of 2011 ; and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 .
In May 2012 , he became the first sitting U.S. president to publicly support same-sex marriage and in 2013 his administration filed briefs which urged the Supreme Court to rule in favor  of same-sex युगल in दो high-profile  cases .
In foreign policy , Obama ended U.S. military involvement in the Iraq War , increased troop levels  in अफगानिस्तान , हस्ताक्षरित the नई प्रारंभ बाहें कंट्रोल सन्धि साथ  Russia , ordered U.S. military involvement in Libya , and ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden .
the होंडा cbr1100xx  Super Blackbird was a Honda motorcycle made from 1996 to 2007 .
The bike was developed to challenge the Kawasaki Ninja ZX-11 as the world 's fastest  उत्पादन मोटरसाइकिल , और होंडा  succeeded with a top speed of .
Two  सालो बाद the शीर्षक passed  to the Suzuki Hayabusa , which reached .
The Blackbird is named  बाद the लॉकहीड sr-71  , also a speed record holder .
Sample view of an electronic health record  आधारित on बिंब
नमूना दृश्य  of an electronic health record
An electronic health  रिकार्ड ( ehr ) is an evolving अवधारणा पारिभाषित  as a systematic collection of electronic health information about individual patients or populations .
It is a record in  डिजिटल स्वरूप  that is theoretically capable of being shared across different health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected enterprise-wide information systems and other information  संजाल or exchanges  .
EHRs may include a range of data , including demographics , medical  इतिहास , दवा और allergies , immunization औकात , प्रयोगशाला परीक्षण  results , radiology images , vital signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing information .
The Mariner up  on the mast  in a storm .
One of the  wood-engraved illustrations  by Gustave Doré .
The Rime of the  प्राचीन मेरिनर ( originally the rime of the ancyent  Marinere ) is the longest major poem by the English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge , written in 1797–98 and published in 1798 in the first edition of Lyrical Ballads .
Modern editions use a  बाद संशोधित संस्करण  printed in 1817 that featured a gloss .
Along with other poems in Lyrical Ballads , it  थी a सिग्नल शिफ़्ट to आधुनिक काव्य और the शुरूआत  of British Romantic literature .
A proxy auto-config ( PAC ) file defines how web browsers and other user agents can automatically choose the appropriate proxy server (  अभिगम विधि ) लिये fetching  a given URL .
A PAC file contains a JavaScript function  “findproxyforurl  ( url , host ) ” .
This function returns  a स्ट्रिंग साथ  one or more access method specifications .
These specifications cause the  उपयोक्ता एजेंट to उपयोग a  particular proxy server or to connect directly .
Multiple  विशेषताएँ provide a  fall-back when a proxy fails to respond .
The browser fetches this PAC file before  requesting  other URLs .
The URL of the PAC file is either  विन्यस्त हस्तचालित or संकल्पित automatically  by the Web Proxy Autodiscovery Protocol .
Zendaya Coleman ( born September 1 , 1996 ) , known mononymously as Zendaya , is an American  अभिनेत्री , सिंगर  and dancer .
she stars on the Disney Channel sitcom  शेक it  Up as Rocky Blue .
She has starred in two films and  निभाई एक  of the lead roles in the film Frenemies as Halley Brandon .
She voiced  फर्न in the pixie  Hollow Games .
She appeared in Good Luck Charlie as Rocky Blue and in a Good Luck  चार्ली और शेक it up क्रॉसओवर  title Charlie Shake It Up .
She appeared on PrankStars as herself in the  एपीसोड ``  Walk The Prank '' and on A.N.T . Farm as Sequoia Jones in the episode `` Creative ConsultANT . ''
zendaya is भी  a musician .
She signed a deal with Hollywood Records on August 8 , 2012 and started recording songs for her debut album  on अगस्त  12 , 2012 .
She released a single from an independent label called `` Swag It Out ``  और another सिंगल साथ बेला thorne  called `` Watch Me , '' which is featured on the Break It Down album .
On March 20 , 2012 , Zendaya and Bella Thorne released an album together called Shake It Up : Live 2 Dance , each have their own song on it  , साथ साथ a mash-up of दोनो गीतों  together as one .
On August 21 , 2012 ,  zendaya और बेला thorne released  an EP called Shake It Up : Made In Japan .
Zendaya has a Christmas song called `` Shake Santa Shake , ''  जिससे is on the  Disney Channel Holiday Playlist CD , which was released on October 2 , 2012 .
On March 5 , 2013 the third Shake It Up soundtrack was released ,  हकदार i < 3 नृत्य ; on it , zendaya रै दो गीतों साथ बेला  - `` Contagious Love '' and `` This Is My Dance Floor '' - as well as one solo song , `` Beat of My Drum . ''
This is a list  of एयरपोर्ट in पेन्सिलवेनिया  ( a U.S. state ) , grouped by type and sorted by location .
It contains all public-use and  सैन्य एयरपोर्ट  in the state .
Some  private-use और पूर्व एयरपोर्ट may be शामिल  where notable , such as airports that were previously public-use , those with commercial enplanements recorded by the FAA or airports assigned an IATA airport code .
iOS ( previously iPhone OS ) is a mobile operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc . Originally released in 2007 for the iPhone and iPod Touch platforms ,  it रै महरूम विस्तारित to support अन्य ठहराना डिवाइस ऐसे as the ipad और ठहराना tv  .
Unlike Microsoft 's Windows Phone and Google 's  एंड्रॉइड , ठहराना करता नहीं अनुज्ञा आईओएस लिये संस्थापना  on non-Apple hardware .
, Apple 's App Store  contained अधिक than 700,000 आईओएस अनुप्रयोग  , which have collectively been downloaded more than 30 billion times .
It had a  21 % share of the स्मार्टफोन मोबाईल ऑपरेटिंग  system units shipped in the fourth quarter of 2012 , behind only Google 's Android .
In June 2012 , it accounted for 65 % of mobile web data consumption (  सहित उपयोग on दोनो the ipod टच और the  iPad ) .
At the  हाफ of 2012 , वहीँ यहूद  410 million devices activated .
According to the special  मीडिया इवेंट आयोजित by ठहराना on सितंबर  12 , 2012 , 400 million devices have been sold through June 2012 .
The user interface of iOS is based on the concept of direct  हेरफेर , using  multi-touch gestures .
Interface control elements consist of  sliders , switches , और बटन  .
Interaction with the OS includes gestures such as swipe , tap , pinch , and reverse pinch , all of  जिससे have विशिष्ट परिभाषाएं भीतर  the context of the iOS operating system and its multi-touch interface .
Internal accelerometers are used by some applications to respond to shaking the device ( one common  परिणाम is the undo कमांड  ) or rotating it in three dimensions ( one common result is switching from portrait to landscape mode ) .
iOS is derived from  os x ,  with which it shares the Darwin foundation .
iOS is  ठहराना 's मोबाईल संस्करण of the  OS X operating system used on Apple computers .
In iOS , there  हैं चार abstraction परतों : the  Core OS layer , the Core Services layer , the Media layer , and the Cocoa Touch layer .
The  वर्तमान संस्करण of the ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली  ( iOS 6.1.3 ) dedicates 1-1.5 GB of the device 's flash memory for the system partition , using roughly 800 MB of that partition ( varying by model ) for iOS itself .
iOS currently runs on iPhone ,  ipad , ipod टच और ठहराना tv  .
The Plymouth Superbird is famous for its extremely high rear  wing  .
1987 Audi Sport QuattroS1  साथ इसके विशाल विंग्स  at Pikes Peak
A spoiler is an automotive aerodynamic device whose  intended डिज़ाइन फलन is to 'spoil  ' unfavorable air movement across a body of a vehicle in motion , usually described as turbulence or drag .
Spoilers on the front of a vehicle are often called air dams , because in addition to directing air flow  वे भी reduce the राशि of एयर बहती underneath the गाडी जिससे generally reduces aerodynamic  lift and drag .
Spoilers are often fitted to race and high-performance sports cars ,  हालांकि वे have become आम on यात्री  vehicles as well .
Some spoilers are  added to गाड़ियाँ primarily  for styling purposes and have either little aerodynamic benefit or even make the aerodynamics worse .
Spoilers for cars are often  incorrectly उलझन  with , or the term used interchangeably with , wings .
Automotive wings are devices whose intended design is to   generate downforce as air passes around them , not simply disrupt existing airflow patterns .
Mario , who serves as  निन्टेंडो 's शुभंकर , is a fictional अक्षर  created by game designer Shigeru Miyamoto and voiced by Charles Martinet .
This  is a सूची of वीडियो खेल जहाँ the अक्षर  Mario plays a part , either as the protagonist , antagonist , supporting character , as part of an ensemble cast , as a cameo , or in a game within a game .
It does not include simple references to the character , such as the portraits of  मारियो मिला in the लेजेंड of zelda : a  Link to the Past .
The year indicated is the year the game was first released , most commonly in Japan  ; खेल यहूद sometimes released सालो बाद in अन्य regions of the  world .
The list includes ports , remakes and  compilations  .
It does n't include any Virtual  कंसोल re-releases  .
`` Man of Constant Sorrow '' ( also known as `` I Am  a man of निरंतर विषाद '' ) is a परंपरागत  American folk song first recorded by Dick Burnett , a partially blind fiddler from Kentucky .
The song was originally recorded by Burnett as `` Farewell Song '' printed in a Richard Burnett songbook , circa 1913  .
An early version was  अंकित by emry आर्थर in 1928 ( vocalion  Vo 5208 ) .
Public interest in the song was renewed after the  रिलीज of the 2000 फिल्मी o bhai  , Where Art Thou ?
, as it plays a central role  in the  film 's plot .
The song was also included in  the फिल्मी 's अत्यधिक  successful , multiple-platinum selling soundtrack .
Josephson junction array chip developed by the National Bureau of  मानकों as a मानक वोल्ट
The volt ( symbol : V ) is the SI derived unit for electric potential  ( वोल्टेज )  , electric potential difference , and electromotive force .
The volt is named in honor of the Italian physicist  alessandro volta ( 1745–1827 ) , जो invented the वोल्टायिक  pile , possibly the first chemical battery .
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo  हत्या और कदम of gavrilo princip  ( image taken in 1987 , before steps were removed in 1992 and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque  commemorating the स्थान  of the Sarajevo assassination ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 , Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne , and his wife , Sophie , Duchess of  hohenberg , यहूद शॉट मुर्दे in साराजेवो  , by Gavrilo Princip , one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the assassination was to break off  austria-hungary 's south-slav प्रांतों so वे could be संयुक्त  into a Greater Serbia or a Yugoslavia .
The assassins ' motives were  सतत साथ the गति कि बाद became ज्ञात as यंग  Bosnia .
Serbian military  अधिकारियों stood पीछे  the attack .
At the top of  ये सर्बियाई सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों थी मुख्य of सर्बियाई  Military Intelligence Dragutin Dimitrijević , his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić , and Masterspy Rade Malobabić .
Major  tankosić हथियारबंद the हत्यारे  with bombs and pistols and trained them .
The  हत्यारे यहूद दिए अभिगम to the वही clandestine टनल of  safe-houses and agents that Rade Malobabić used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary .
the हत्यारे , the कुंजी सदस्यों of the clandestine  tunnel , and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested , tried , convicted and punished .
Those who were  गिरफ्तार in बोस्निया यहूद आजमाया  in Sarajevo in October 1914 .
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in  1916–1917 on unrelated गलत आरोप ; सर्बिया चलाया तीन of the  top military conspirators .
Much of what is known about  the assassinations  comes from these two trials and related records .
कार्यभार of जिम्मेदारी लिये the bombing  and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month later .
Mission San Juan Capistrano was a Spanish mission in Southern California  , स्तिथ in present-day सैन जुआन  Capistrano .
it थी संस्थापित on सब संतो  ' Day November 1 , 1776 , by Spanish Catholics of the Franciscan Order .
Named for Giovanni da Capistrano , a 15th century theologian and `` warrior priest '' who resided in the Abruzzo region of Italy , San  जुआन capistrano रै the भेद of होने घर to the oldest भवन  in California still in use , a chapel built in 1782 .
Known  alternately as `` सेरा 's चैपल '' और  `` Father Serra 's Church , '' it is the only extant structure where it has been documented that the padre Junipero Serra celebrated mass .
One of the best known of  the alta कैलिफ़ोर्निया  missions ( and one of the few missions to have actually been founded twice—others being Mission San Gabriel Arcángel and Mission La Purísima Concepción ) .
The site was originally consecrated on October 30 , 1775 , by Father Fermín Lasuén , but was quickly abandoned  due to अशांति among  the indigenous population in San Diego .
The success of the  उपनिवेश is evident in इसके  historical records .
Prior to the  आगमन of the प्रचारकों  , some 550 natives were scattered throughout the local area .
By 1790 , the number of converted Christians had grown to 700 , and just six years  बाद nearly 1,000  `` neophytes `` ( recent converts ) lived in or around the Mission compound .
1,649 baptisms were conducted that  साल अलोन , आउट of the कुल 4,639 souls परिवर्तित  between 1776 and 1847 .
More than 2,000 former inhabitants  ( ज़्यादातर juaneño इंडियंस ) हैं दफ्न in  unmarked graves in the Mission 's cemetery ( campo santo ) .
the remains of पिता ( बाद monsignor ) st. जॉन  O'Sullivan , who recognized the property 's historic value and working tirelessly to conserve and rebuild its structures , are buried at the entrance to the cemetery on the west side of the property , and a statue raised in his honor stands at the head of the crypt .
The surviving chapel also serves as the final resting place of three padres who passed on while serving at  the मिशन : fathers  José Barona , Vicente Fustér , and Vicente Pascual Oliva are all entombed beneath the sanctuary floor .
The  criolla or `` मिशन  grape , '' was first planted at San Juan Capistrano in 1779 ; in 1783 , the first wine produced in Alta California emerged from the Mission 's winery .
The Mission entered a long period of  क्रमिक मनाही बाद  secularization in 1833 .
Numerous efforts were made over the years to restore the Mission to its former glory , but none  मिले साथ ग्रेट  success until the arrival of Father O'Sullivan in 1910 .
Restoration efforts continue , and `` Serra 's Chapel ''  is स्टिल प्रयुक्त लिये  religious services .
About  half-a-million विज़िटर  , including 80,000 school children , come to the Mission each year .
And while the ruins of `` The Great Stone Church '' ( which was all but leveled by an 1812 earthquake ) are a renowned architectural wonder , the Mission is perhaps  बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये the सालाना `` वापसी of the दात  '' which is traditionally observed every March 19 ( Saint Joseph 's Day ) .
Mission San Juan Capistrano has served as a favorite subject for many notable artists , and has been immortalized in literature  और on फिल्मी numerous टाइम्स ,  perhaps more than any other mission .
in 1984 , a आधुनिक गिरिजाघर जटिल  was constructed just north and west of the Mission compound and is now known as Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano .
Today , the mission compound serves as a museum , with the  सेरा चैपल भीतर the यौगिक सेवारत  as a chapel for the mission parish .
Better  बंद मुर्दे is a 1985 अमरीकी टीन रोमांटिक  comedy film starring John Cusack and written and directed by Savage Steve Holland .
It tells the story of  ऊँची स्कूल छात्र लेन myer जो  is suicidal after his girlfriend breaks up with him .
Mercedes-Benz Superdome ( originally  louisiana superdome और commonly the  Superdome ) is a sports and exhibition stadium , located in the Central Business District of New Orleans , Louisiana , USA .
Plans  यहूद drawn up in 1967 , by the नई  Orleans modernist architectural firm of Curtis and Davis .
Its steel  फ़्रेम कवर  a expanse .
Its dome is made of a  lamella multi-ringed  frame and has a diameter of , making it the largest fixed domed structure in the world .
It is home to the NFL 's New Orleans Saints , the  ncaa 's प्रभाग i-a tulane ग्रीन वेव  football team ( the largest football stadium in Conference USA ) , the State Farm Bayou Classic , the R+L Carriers New Orleans Bowl , the Allstate Sugar Bowl and , every fourth year , the BCS National Championship Game .
Because of the size and location in one of the major tourist destinations in the United States , the Superdome routinely makes the `` short list '' of candidates  होने माना  for major sporting events , such as the Super Bowl and the Final Four .
In 2005 , the  superdome gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय  attention of a different type when it housed thousands of people seeking shelter from Hurricane Katrina .
The building suffered extensive damage as  a परिणाम of the तूफ़ान  , and was closed for many months afterward .
On October 3 , 2011 , it was announced that German  automaker mercedes-benz खरीदा नामकरण  rights to the stadium .
The new name took effect on  अक्तूबर 23 , 2011  .
It is the third stadium that has  नामकरण अधिकारों इससे mercedes-benz ( और पहला in the संयुक्त राज्य ) , बाद  the Mercedes-Benz Arena , the stadium of Bundesliga club VfB Stuttgart , in Stuttgart , Germany and the Mercedes-Benz Arena in Shanghai , China .
Lobby of  जम्बो हाउस
Giraffe on the  savannah at  Jambo House
Disney 's Animal  किंगडम आवास is an african-themed  deluxe resort at the Walt Disney World Resort .
It  खोली on  April 16 , 2001 .
The resort  is स्वामित्व और संचालित  by Walt Disney Parks and Resorts .
Disney 's Animal Kingdom Lodge is  स्तिथ in the एनिमल  Kingdom Resort Area , adjacent to Disney 's Animal Kingdom .
It gives guests the opportunity to view grazing wildlife outside their rooms and public areas in the resort within  निकटता of the पशु , conveying the अहसास of होने  in an African savanna .
The People 's Party , also known as the `` Populists '' , was a short-lived political party in the United States  स्थापित in 1891 दौरान the populist गति ( संयुक्त  States , 19th Century ) .
It  थी सबसे महत्वपूर्ण  in 1892-96 , and then rapidly faded away .
आधारित among ग़रीब , श्वेत कपास किसानो in the दक्षिण (  especially North Carolina , Alabama , and Texas ) and hard-pressed wheat farmers in the plains states ( especially Kansas and Nebraska ) , it represented a radical crusading form of agrarianism and hostility to banks , railroads , and elites generally .
It sometimes formed coalitions with labor unions , and in 1896 the Democrats endorsed their  अध्यक्षीय nominee , विलियम जेनिंग्स  Bryan .
The terms `` populist '' and `` populism  `` हैं commonly प्रयुक्त लिये anti-elitist appeals  in opposition to established interests and mainstream parties .
भाषाई मैप  of Nigeria , Cameroon , and Benin .
Sign in English , outside  the विश्वविद्यालयों of  Lagos
There are hundreds  of भाषाएं बोला  in Nigeria .
The major languages are Yoruba , Hausa , Igbo , Edo ,  fulfulde , कनूरी  , and Ibibio .
The official language of Nigeria , English , the former colonial language , was chosen to  सुकर the सांस्कृतिक और भाषाई एकता of the देश  .
English , however , remains an  विशेष बचाना of the देश 's शहरी elite , और is नहीं  widely spoken in rural areas , which comprise three quarters of the countries population .
Nigeria 's linguistic diversity is a  microcosm of अफ़्रीकी as a पूरे , encompassing तीन प्रमुख  African languages families : Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , and Niger–Congo .
Nigeria also has several  as-yet unclassified भाषाएं , ऐसे as cen tuum  , which may represent a relic of an even greater diversity prior to the spread of the current language families .
A  श्रेणी of कार्यक्रम led  to the attack on Pearl Harbor .
War between Japan and the United States had been a  सम्भावना कि प्रत्येक स्वदेश 's सैन्य शक्तियां नियोजित लिये चूंकि the 1920s  , though real tension did not begin until the 1931 invasion of Manchuria by Japan .
Over the next decade , Japan expanded slowly into China , leading to all out war  between  the two in 1937 .
In  1940 जापानी invaded फ्रेंच इंडोचायना  in an effort to embargo all imports into China , including war supplies purchased from the U.S .
This move prompted the United States to embargo all oil exports , leading the Imperial Japanese Navy to estimate that it had less than two years of bunker oil remaining and to support  the मौजूदा योजनाएँ to seize आयल संसाधन in the  Dutch East Indies .
Planning had been underway for some time on an attack on the `` Southern Resource Area '' to add it to the Greater East Asia  co-prosperity गोला  that Japan envisioned in the Pacific .
The Philippine islands , at that time an American  territory , यहूद भी  a Japanese target .
The  जापानी सैन्य concluded कि an आक्रमण  of the Philippines would provoke an American military response .
Rather than seize and fortify the islands , and wait for the inevitable US counterattack , Japan 's military leaders instead decided on the pre-emptive Pearl Harbor attack , which they  assumed होता negate the अमरीकी शक्तियां needed लिये the मुक्ति  and reconquest of the islands .
Planning for the attack had begun in very  जल्दी 1941 , by admiral isoroku यामामोटो  .
He finally won assent from the Naval High Command by ,  among अन्य बाते , threatening  to resign .
the आक्रमण थी स्वीकृत in the गर्मियाँ at an इम्पीरियल  Conference and again at a second Conference in the fall .
Simultaneously  over the साल  , pilots were trained , and ships prepared for its execution .
Authority for the  आक्रमण थी granted at the दूसरी  Imperial Conference if a diplomatic result satisfactory to Japan was not reached .
After final approval by Emperor Hirohito the order to attack was  जारी  at the beginning of December .
A  आम दफ्तर  stapler
A common  स्कूल  stapler
A stapler is a mechanical device that joins sheets of paper or similar  सामग्री by ड्राइविंग a पतला मेटल स्टेपल through  the sheets and folding the ends .
Staplers are widely used in  सरकारी , कारोबार ,  offices , homes and schools .
The word `` stapler '' can actually refer to a number of  अलग डिवाइस of varying  uses .
In addition to joining paper sheets together , staplers can also be used in a surgical setting to join  ऊतक साथ साथ सर्जिकल स्टेपल्स to बंद a सर्जिकल  wound ( much in the same way as stitches or sutures ) .
Typically , most staplers are used to join  अनेक चादरें of पेपर .
Paper staplers come in two distinct types :  हस्तचालित और  electric .
Manual staplers are normally hand-held , although models that are used while set on a desk or other  सतह हैं नहीं uncommon  .
Electric staplers exist in a variety  of अलग डिजाइन और  models .
Their primary operating function is to join large  संख्याएँ of पेपर चादरें साथ  in rapid succession .
Some electric  staplers can जुड़ें up  to 20 sheets at a time .
Swallowing , known  scientifically as deglutition , is the प्रक्रम in the इंसान or एनिमल  body that makes something pass from the mouth , to the pharynx , and into the esophagus , while shutting the epiglottis .
If this fails and the object goes through the  श्वासनली  , then choking or pulmonary aspiration can occur .
In the human body it is controlled by the  swallowing reflex  .
Thaddeus Stevens ( April 4 , 1792 – August 11 , 1868 ) , of Pennsylvania , was a leader of the Radical  रिपब्लिकन गुट of the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी और a fierce  opponent of slavery .
He was one of the most influential members in  the इतिहास of कॉंग्रेस  .
As chairman of the  शक्तिशाली हाउस तरीके और अर्थात्  Committee , Stevens , a witty , sarcastic speaker and flamboyant party leader , dominated the House from 1861 until his death .
He wrote much of  the वित्तीय  legislation that paid for the American Civil War .
Stevens and Senator Charles Sumner were the  प्रधान नेताओ of the कट्टरपंथी  Republicans during the war and Reconstruction era .
Scholarly views of Stevens have swung sharply since his death as interpretations  of पुनर्निर्माण  have changed .
Historians of the Dunning School ( 1890s–1940s ) held Stevens responsible for demanding harsh treatment of the white South and violating American traditions  of republicanism , depicting स्टीवंस as a विलेन  for his advocacy of harsh measures in the South such as disfranchising all ex-Confederates .
This highly negative  characterization  held sway into the 1950s .
The rise of the neo-abolitionist school  in the 1950s led  to a strong positive appreciation of Stevens ' work on civil rights for Freedmen .
A recent biographer characterizes him as , `` The Great Commoner , savior of free public education in Pennsylvania , national Republican leader in the struggles against slavery in the United States and intrepid  mainstay of the  attempt to secure racial justice for the Freedmen during Reconstruction , the only member of the House of Representatives ever to have been known as the 'dictator ' of Congress . ''
Overview of the  अनुवाद  of eukaryotic messenger RNA
आरेख प्रर्दशित the अनुवाद  of mRNA and the synthesis of proteins by a ribosome
in आणविक जीवविज्ञान  and genetics , translation is the process through which cellular ribosomes manufacture proteins .
It is  भाग of the प्रक्रम of जीन  expression .
In translation , messenger RNA ( mRNA ) produced by transcription is decoded by the ribosome to produce a specific amino acid  कड़ी , or polypeptide , कि  will later fold into an active protein .
In bacteria , translation occurs in the cell 's cytoplasm , where the large and  छोटी subunits of the राइबोसोम  are located , and bind to the mRNA .
In eukaryotes ,  अनुवाद occurs आरपार the झिल्ली  of the endoplasmic reticulum in a process called vectorial synthesis .
The ribosome facilitates decoding by inducing the binding of tRNAs with complementary anticodon  sequences to कि  of the mRNA .
The tRNAs carry specific amino acids that are chained together into a polypeptide as the  mrna गुजरता through और is `` पढ़ा  '' by the ribosome in a fashion reminiscent to that of a stock ticker and ticker tape .
In many instances , the entire ribosome/mRNA complex  बांधता to the बाहरी झिल्ली of the अशिष्ट endoplasmic reticulum और  releases the nascent protein polypeptide inside for later vesicle transport and secretion outside of the cell .
Many types of transcribed RNA  , ऐसे as ट्रांसफ़र rna , ribosomal  RNA , and small nuclear RNA , do not undergo translation into proteins .
Translation proceeds in four phases : initiation , elongation , translocation and termination ( all describing the growth of the amino acid chain , or  polypeptide कि is the उत्पाद of अनुवाद  ) .
अमीनो acids हैं  brought to ribosomes and assembled into proteins .
In activation  , the सही अमीनो  acid is covalently bonded to the correct transfer RNA ( tRNA ) .
The amino acid is  joined by इसके carboxyl समूह  to the 3 ' OH of the tRNA by an ester bond .
When the tRNA has an amino acid  linked to it , it is  termed `` charged '' .
Initiation involves the small subunit of  the राइबोसोम बाइंडिंग  to the 5 ' end of mRNA with the help of initiation factors ( IF ) .
Termination of the polypeptide happens when the A site of the ribosome faces a stop  codon ( uaa , uag  , or UGA ) .
No tRNA can recognize  or bind to  this codon .
Instead , the stop codon induces the binding of a release factor protein that prompts the disassembly of the entire  ribosome/mrna जटिल  .
A number of antibiotics act by inhibiting translation ; these include anisomycin , cycloheximide , chloramphenicol , tetracycline , streptomycin  , erythromycin , और puromycin , among  others .
Prokaryotic ribosomes have a different structure from that of eukaryotic  ribosomes , और यूँ एंटीबायोटिक can specifically निशाना बैक्टीरियल  infections without any detriment to a eukaryotic host 's cells .
A multimedia message  on a मोबाईल  phone .
मल्टीमीडिया messaging सेवा ( mms  ) is a standard way to send messages that include multimedia content to and from mobile phones .
It extends the core SMS ( Short Message Service ) capability that allowed exchange of text messages only up to 160  वर्ण in  length .
The most popular use is to send photographs from camera-equipped handsets , although it is also popular as a method of  delivering न्यूज और entertainment  content including videos , pictures , text pages and ringtones .
The standard is developed by the Open Mobile Alliance ( OMA ) ,  हालांकि दौरान विकास  it was part of the 3GPP and WAP groups .
Smallpox was an infectious disease unique to humans  ,  caused by either of two virus variants , Variola major and Variola minor .
The disease is also known by the Latin names Variola or  variola वीरा , निकला इससे varius (  `` spotted '' ) or varus ( `` pimple '' ) .
The disease was originally known in English as the `` pox '' or `` red plague  '' ; the पद `` smallpox '' थी पहला प्रयुक्त in ब्रिटेन  in the 15th century to distinguish variola from the `` great pox '' ( syphilis ) .
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox ( Variola  नाबालिग ) थी diagnosed on 26 अक्तूबर  1977 .
Smallpox localized in small blood vessels of the skin and in the mouth  और  throat .
In the skin it resulted in a characteristic maculopapular  खाज और , बाद , उठाया fluid-filled फफोले  .
V. major produces a more serious disease and has an overall mortality rate of  30–35  % .
V. minor causes a milder form of disease ( also known  as alastrim , cottonpox , milkpox , whitepox , और क्यूबन  itch ) which kills about 1 % of its victims .
Long-term complications of V. major infection include  characteristic scars , commonly on the फेस ,  which occur in 65–85 % of survivors .
Blindness resulting  इससे corneal ulceration और scarring , और  limb deformities due to arthritis and osteomyelitis are less common complications , seen in about 2–5 % of cases .
Smallpox is believed to have emerged in  इंसान populations  about 10,000 BC .
the earliest शारीरिक  evidence of it is probably the pustular rash on the mummified body of Pharaoh Ramses V of Egypt .
The disease  मारे an अनुमानित 400,000 europeans  annually during the closing years of the 18th century ( including five reigning monarchs ) , and was responsible for a third of all blindness .
Of all those infected , 20–60 % —and over 80 % of  संक्रमित children—died  from the disease .
Smallpox was responsible for an estimated 300–500 million deaths  दौरान the 20th  century .
As recently as 1967 , the World Health Organization (  जो ) अनुमानित कि  15 million people contracted the disease and that two million died in that year .
After vaccination  अभियान  throughout the 19th and 20th centuries , the WHO certified the eradication of smallpox in 1979 .
Smallpox is one of two infectious diseases to have been eradicated , the other being rinderpest ,  जिससे थी घोषित eradicated  in 2011 .
`` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' is a song by the  अंग्रेज़ी  rock band the Beatles .
Written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney , and recorded in October 1963 , it was the  पहला बीटल्स रिकार्ड to be बना using four-track  equipment .
With advance orders exceeding one  लाख नक़ल in the संयुक्त किंगडम , `` i want to थाम अपना हाथ  '' would ordinarily have gone straight to the top of the British record charts on its day of release ( 29 November 1963 ) had it not been blocked by the group 's first million seller `` She Loves You `` , the Beatles ' previous UK single , which was having a resurgent spell in the top position following intense media coverage of the group .
Taking two weeks to dislodge its predecessor , `` I Want to Hold Your Hand '' stayed at number one for  पाँच सप्ताह और remained in the uk शीर्ष  fifty for twenty-one weeks in total .
It was also the group 's first American number one , entering the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 18 January 1964 at number forty-five and starting the British invasion of the  अमरीकी म्यूज़िक उद्योग .
By 1  फ़रवरी it आयोजित the क्रमांक एक स्पॉट — लिये सात सप्ताह — पहले होने replaced  by `` She Loves You '' , a reverse scenario of what had occurred in Britain , and remained in the US charts for a total of fifteen weeks .
`` I Want to Hold  अपना हाथ '' became the बीटल्स  ' best-selling single worldwide .
A gasser was a type of hot rod originating on the dragstrips  of the संयुक्त राज्य in the  late 1950s and continued until the early 1970s .
Gassers were based on production models from the 1930s to mid-1960s  , जिससे have महरूम stripped  of extraneous weight and jacked up using a truck beam axle to provide better weight distribution on acceleration ( Beam axles are also lighter than an independent front suspension ) , though a raised stock front suspension is common as well .
Common weight reduction techniques include fiberglass body panels ,  stripped इंटीरियर्स और plexiglass खिड़कियाँ ( sometimes  color tinted ) .
Because they were primarily built for racing , these cars typically had the engine swapped to a larger or more powerful one , the existing stock  इंजन परिवर्धित  ( often heavily ) or both .
It was very common to fit a Roots  supercharger और mechanical ईंधन इंजेक्शन  , such as one from Algon , Hilborn , or Crower .
With form being dictated by  फलन , उनके रूप is प्रायः बहुत शीर्ष भारी और ungainly , largely  due to front ends being raised higher than stock , to assist in the weight transfer during rapid acceleration ( racing ) .
having उनके exhaust पाइप निकास through the सामने  fender well is a common characteristic of gassers , as is having bodies painted in flamboyant metalflakes , pearls , and candy finishes complemented by lettering in wild fonts .
The name arose because they competed in a gasoline  -fueled खीचें रेसिंग क्लास , बल्कि than एक  using methanol or nitromethane .
The gasser is the predecessor of the  आधुनिक मजेदार car  .
Twelve-lead  ईकेजी of  a 26-year-old male
Electrocardiography ( ECG or EKG from ) is a transthoracic ( across the thorax or chest ) interpretation of the electrical activity of the heart over a period of time , as detected by electrodes attached to the surface of  the स्किन और अंकित by a यंत्र  external to the body .
The recording produced by this  noninvasive कार्यविधि  is termed an electrocardiogram ( also ECG or EKG ) .
An ECG is used to measure the rate  और नियमितता of heartbeats , as खूब as the आकार और  position of the chambers , the presence of any damage to the heart , and the effects of drugs or devices used to regulate the heart , such as a pacemaker .
Most ECGs are performed for diagnostic or research purposes on human hearts , but  may भी be performed on पशु , प्रायः लिये निदान of  heart abnormalities or research .
Donald John  ट्रम्प , sr. ( born जून 14 , 1946 )  is an American business magnate , television personality and author .
He is the chairman and president of The Trump Organization  और the संस्थापक of  Trump Entertainment Resorts .
Trump 's extravagant lifestyle , outspoken manner , and role on the NBC reality show The Apprentice have  बना उसे a well-known हस्ती जो थी no . 14 on the 2012 फोर्ब्स हस्ती  100 list .
Trump is the son of Fred  ट्रम्प , a धनवान नई यॉर्क  City real-estate developer .
He worked for his father 's firm , Elizabeth Trump & Son , while attending the Wharton School of the  विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया , और in 1968 officially joined the कम्पनी  .
He was given control of the company in 1971 and  renamed it the  Trump Organization .
In 2010 , Trump expressed an interest in becoming a  प्रत्याशी लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य in the 2012  election , though in May 2011 , he announced he would not be a candidate .
In December 2011 , Trump was suggested as a  संभावित वाइस अध्यक्षीय चयन by मिशेल  Bachmann , if she were to win the Republican nomination .
`` A Change Is Gon na Come '' is a 1964 single by R & B  singer-songwriter sam  Cooke , written and first recorded in 1963 and released under the RCA Victor label shortly after his death in late 1964 .
Though only a modest hit for Cooke in comparison with  उसके पिछला singles , the सोंग आए  to exemplify the 1960s ' Civil Rights Movement .
The song has gained in popularity and  नाजुक acclaim in the दशकों चूंकि इसके  release , and is # 12 on Rolling Stone 's 500 Greatest Songs of All Time .
Steam  उठती इससे the nesjavellir  Geothermal Power Station in Iceland .
Geothermal energy is thermal energy  उत्पन्न और भंडारित in  the Earth .
Thermal energy is the  उर्जा कि  determines the temperature of matter .
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the  ग्रह ( 20 % ) और इससे  radioactive decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is the difference in  तापमान between the कोर of the ग्रह और इसके  surface , drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface .
The adjective geothermal originates from  the यूनानी जड़ें γη ( ge )  , meaning earth , and θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning hot .
At the core of the Earth , thermal energy is  निर्मित by रेडियोसक्रिय  decay and temperatures may reach over 5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ) .
Heat  conducts इससे the कोर  to surrounding cooler rock .
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt , creating magma convection  upward चूंकि  it is lighter than the solid rock .
The magma heats rock  और जल  in the crust , sometimes up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ) .
इससे hot स्रोतों , geothermal उर्जा रै महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये स्नान  since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide , about  10,715 megawatts ( mw ) of geothermal  power is online in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct  geothermal हीटिंग क्षमता is संस्थापित लिये ज़िला  heating , space heating , spas , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal power is cost effective ,  विश्वसनीय , चिरस्थायी  , and environmentally friendly , but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources , especially for applications such as home heating ,  खोलने a संभावित लिये फैली  exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth , but these  emissions हैं much निम्नतर प्रति उर्जा ईकाई than those  of fossil fuels .
As a result , geothermal power has  the संभावित to सहायता mitigate वैश्विक  warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more  than पर्याप्त to सप्लाई मानवता 's उर्जा needs  , but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and  खोजी लिये गहन  resources is very expensive .
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions about technology , energy prices  , subsidies , और ब्याज  rates .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers would be willing to pay a  छोटी अधिक लिये a बेदर्दी  energy source like geothermal .
लकिन as a परिणाम  of government assisted research and industry experience , the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades .
In 2001 , geothermal  उर्जा लागत between  two and ten cents per kwh .
Ownership of property  may be निजी , सामूहिक  , or common and the property may be objects , land/real estate , or intellectual property .
Determining  स्वामित्व in विधि involves determining  who has certain rights and duties over the property .
These rights and duties , sometimes called a 'bundle of  अधिकारों ' , can  be separated and held by different parties .
The question of ownership reaches back to the ancient philosophers , Plato  और अरस्तू , जो आयोजित अलग  opinions on the subject .
Plato ( 428/427 BC – 348/347 BC ) thought private property created divisive inequalities , while Aristotle ( 384 BC – 322 BC ) thought private property enabled people to receive the full  लाभ of उनके मजदूर  .
Private property can circumvent what is now referred to as the “ tragedy of the commons ” problem , where people tend to degrade common  प्रॉपर्टी अधिक than  they do private property .
Given a short-sighted owner , however , a private property system can make these tragedies  worse—for उदाहरण , a निजी मालिक of a टुकड़ा of oil-rich प्रॉपर्टी , depending  on his worldview , might be more interested in short-term financial gain than incremental use with an eye toward other 's concerns ( e.g. , those of future generations , the disenfranchised , etc . ) .
While Aristotle justified the existence of private ownership , he left open  सवाल of ( 1 ) कैसा to allocate प्रॉपर्टी between कया is निजी और आम और ( 2  ) how to allocate the private property within society .
Over the millennia , and across cultures what can be property and how  it is regarded culturally have varied  widely .
Ownership is the basis for many other  अवधारणाओं कि रूप the मूलाधार of प्राचीन और आधुनिक समाजों  such as money , trade , debt , bankruptcy , the criminality of theft , and private vs. public property .
Ownership is the key building block in the development of the  पूंजीवादी socio-economic  system .
Adam Smith stated that one  of the पवित्र  laws of justice was to guard a person 's property and possessions .
The process and mechanics of ownership are fairly complex : one can gain , transfer and lose  स्वामित्व of प्रॉपर्टी in a क्रमांक of तरीके  .
To acquire  प्रॉपर्टी एक can खरीदें it साथ धन  , trade it for other property , receive it as a gift , steal it , find it , make , it or homestead it .
One can transfer or lose ownership of property by selling it for money , exchanging it for other property , giving it as a  तोहफा , होने robbed of it , it , or having it stripped  from one 's ownership through legal means such as eviction , foreclosure , seizure , or taking .
Ownership is self-propagating in that  the मालिक of कोई प्रॉपर्टी  will also own the economic benefits of that property .
`` What 's My Name ? '' is a song  अंकित by barbadian  recording artist Rihanna , for her fifth studio album Loud ( 2010 ) .
Featuring guest  vocals  from Canadian rapper Drake , the song was released as the second single from Loud on October 29 , 2010 through Def Jam Recordings .
The R & B  सोंग थी उत्पादित by the नॉर्वेजियाई  production duo StarGate , and was written by the duo along with Ester Dean , Traci Hale , and Drake .
lyrically , it incorporates विषयवस्तु  of sexual intercourse and romance .
Music critics gave the song  धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ , citing it कुछ of रिहाना  's best vocal work to date ; there was a praise regarding its romantic nature , as well as its sexual tones .
``  कया 's my नाम ? '' थी a वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी और अव्वल the us  Billboard Hot 100 chart , giving Rihanna her third number-one single in 2010 , as well as her eighth overall on the chart .
The song also topped the charts in Hungary and the United Kingdom and reached the  शीर्ष पाँच in कनाडा , आयरलैंड , नई जीलैंड  , Norway and Slovakia .
The song received a nomination  at the 54th ग्रैमी  Awards for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration .
An accompanying music video , directed by Philip Andelman , portrays a romantic  एनकाउंटर between रिहाना और ड्रेक in a किराना स्टोर साथ साथ रोमांटिक दृश्यों between  the pair and Rihanna walking through Manhattan 's Lower East Side .
`` What 's My Name ? '' was promoted with live performances  आरपार दोनो पहलू of the अटलांटिक , सहित  Saturday Night Live in America and the series seven finale of The X Factor in the United Kingdom .
The latter performance resulted in an investigation from the country 's  मीडिया नियामक , ofcom  , for the raunchy nature of Rihanna 's outfit .
A mathematical constant is a special number , usually a real number , that is ``  significantly दिलचस्प in कुछ रास्ता ''  .
Constants arise in many different areas of mathematics , with  स्थिरांक ऐसे as e ( गणितीय निरंतर )  | and pi| occurring in such diverse contexts as geometry , number theory and calculus .
What it means for a constant to arise `` naturally '' , and what makes a constant `` interesting '' , is ultimately a matter of taste , and some  गणितीय स्थिरांक हैं notable अधिक लिये ऐतिहासिक  reasons than for their intrinsic mathematical interest .
The more popular constants have been studied  throughout the आयु  and computed to many decimal places .
All mathematical constants are  definable संख्याएँ और प्रायः हैं भी  computable numbers ( Chaitin 's constant being a significant exception ) .
Elections to the United States  सीनेट यहूद आयोजित on नवम्बर 2 ,  2010 , for 37 of the United States Senate 's 100 seats .
( A special election on January 19 , 2010 in Massachusetts was  आयोजित पहले  in the year . )
Thirty-four of the seats were for six-year terms to the Senate 's `` class three  '' , और तीन यहूद खास चुनावों लिये  shorter terms .
Of the 37 elections , 19 featured incumbent Democrats ( 7 of whom retired or were  पराजित in the प्राथमिक ) और 18 प्रदर्शित लाज़िम republicans  ( eight of whom retired or were defeated in the primary ) .
After the previous elections ( in 2008 ) , the United States Senate was composed of 58 Democrats , 40 Republicans ,  और 2 independents जो caucus साथ  the Democrats .
Republicans won four seats held by retiring Democrats and  republicans पराजित दो लाज़िम डेमोक्रेट  .
This was the  largest क्रमांक of republicans gains चूंकि the 1994 चुनावों और भी  the first time since that election that Republicans successfully defended all of their own seats .
This was the fourth consecutive election of `` class 3 '' senators where Democrats have failed to gain seats and the third consecutive mid-term  चुनाव आयोजित in a अध्यक्ष 's पहला  term where Republicans have picked-up seats .
Despite these  रिपब्लिकन विन्स , however , the डेमोक्रेट retained a बहुमत of the  Senate with 51 seats plus 2 independents who caucus with them , compared to the 47 Republicans .
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each year as the  सूर्य पहुँच इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम excursion  relative to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere .
As a result , on the day of the solstice , the  सूर्य appears to have पहुँचे इसके उच्चतम or न्यूनतम  annual altitude in the sky above the horizon at local solar noon .
The word solstice is derived from the Latin sol ( sun ) and sistere ( to  स्टैंड स्टिल ) , क्युकी  at the solstices , the Sun stands still in declination ; that is , the seasonal movement of the Sun 's path ( as seen from Earth ) comes to a stop before reversing direction .
The solstices ,  साथ साथ the  equinoxes , are connected with the seasons .
In  अनेक संस्कृतियों the  solstices mark either the beginning or the midpoint of winter and summer .
The term solstice can also be used in a broader sense ,  as the तिथि ( दिन  ) when this occurs .
The day of the solstice is either the longest day of the year ( in summer ) or the shortest day of the year ( in  शीत ) लिये कोई प्लेस बाहर  of the tropics .
Jerry Lee Lewis ( born September 29  , 1935 ) is an अमरीकी चट्टान और फेंकें और  country music singer-songwriter and pianist .
He is known by the  उपनाम  `` The Killer '' and is often viewed as “rock & roll 's first great wild man” .
An early pioneer of rock and roll music , in 1956 Lewis  बना उसके पहला  recordings at Sun Records .
`` Crazy Arms ``  बेची 300,000 नक़ल in the दक्षिण ,  but it was his 1957 hit `` Whole Lotta Shakin ' Going On `` that shot Lewis to fame worldwide .
Lewis followed this in that same year when he  अंकित गीतों ऐसे as `` ग्रेट गेंदें of आग `` , ``  Breathless `` and `` High School Confidential `` .
Lewis sold  अधिक रिकॉर्ड than  Elvis Presley at this time .
However , Lewis ' rock 'n ' roll  करियर faltered in the वेक of उसके विवाह  to his young cousin .
He had  छोटी कामयाबी  in the charts following the scandal and his popularity quickly faded .
His live  प्रदर्शन शुल्क plummeted  from $ 10,000 per night to $ 250 .
in the meantime he  was determined to gain back some of his popularity .
During the early 60’s he did n't have much chart success with few exceptions  ऐसे as ``  What 'd I Say `` .
His live performances at this time were  increasingly जंगली और  energetic .
His album Live at the Star Club , Hamburg from 1964 is often regarded  by अनेक म्यूज़िक पत्रकारों और प्रशंसक  as one of the wildest and greatest rock and roll concert albums ever .
After recording songs such as `` I 'm on Fire '' for several years with little success , in 1968 Lewis made a transition into country music and had hits with songs such as ``  another प्लेस , another समय ''  .
This reignited his career and  throughout the लेट  '60s and '70s he regularly topped the country-western charts .
His # 1 country hits included `` To Make Love Sweeter For You `` , `` There Must Be More to Love Than This `` , `` Would  तुम लो another मौका on me `` और  `` Me And Bobby McGee `` .
Lewis 's successes continued throughout the decade and he  embraced उसके चट्टान 'n ' फेंकें पास्ट साथ गीतों  such as a cover of the Big Bopper 's `` Chantilly Lace `` and `` Rockin ' My Life Away `` .
In the 21st century Lewis continues to tour to  ऑडियंस around  the world and still releases new albums .
One such album , titled Last Man Standing , is his best selling to  तिथि at over a लाख नक़ल बेची विश्वव्यापी  .
This was followed by Mean Old Man which has  प्राप्त कुछ of the बेहतरीन  sales of Lewis’s career .
लुईस रै था a दर्जन सुनहरा रिकॉर्ड in  both rock and country , won several Grammy awards , including a Lifetime Achievement Award .
Lewis was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986 , and his  pioneering योगदान to the विधा  has been recognized by the Rockabilly Hall of Fame .
In 1989 , his life was chronicled in the movie Great Balls  of आग , अभिनीत  Dennis Quaid .
In 2003 , Rolling Stone Magazine listed his box set All  कातिल , no फिलर : the anthology क्रमांक 242 on उनके सूची of `` 500  greatest albums of all time `` .
In 2004 ,  वे क्रमित उसे क्रमांक 24 on उनके  list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time .
Lewis is the last surviving member of Sun Records ' Million Dollar  quartet और the क्लास of '55 एल्बम , जिससे  also included Johnny Cash , Carl Perkins , Roy Orbison and Elvis Presley .
Henry Louis Stephens , untitled watercolor ( 1863  ) of a man पढना a समाचारपत्र साथ शीर्षक  `` Presidential Proclamation / Slavery '' .
The Emancipation Proclamation was an order issued to all segments of the Executive branch (  सहित the फौज और नेवी ) of the संयुक्त राज्य by अध्यक्ष अब्राहम lincoln on जनवरी 1 ,  1863 , during the American Civil War .
It was based on the president  's संवैधानिक प्राधिकार as कमांडर  in chief of the armed forces ; it was not a law passed by Congress .
It proclaimed all those enslaved in Confederate  territory to be forever फ़्री , और ordered the फौज ( और सब खण्ड of the कार्यपालिका शाखा ) to दावत  as free all those enslaved in ten states that were still in rebellion , thus applying to 3.1 million of the 4 million slaves in the U.S .
The Proclamation could  नहीं be enforced in क्षेत्रों स्टिल अंतर्गत  rebellion , but as the army took control of Confederate regions , the slaves in those regions were emancipated rather than returned to their masters .
From 20,000 to 50,000 former slaves in regions where rebellion had already been subdued were immediately emancipated  , और over 3 लाख अधिक  were emancipated as the Union army advanced .
The Proclamation did not apply to the five slave states that were not in rebellion , nor to most regions already controlled by the Union army ; emancipation there would come  बाद पृथक राज्य क्रियाएँ and/or the दिसम्बर 1865 अनुसमर्थन  of the Thirteenth Amendment , which made slavery illegal everywhere in the U.S .
The Proclamation did not compensate the owners , did not itself outlaw slavery , and did not make the ex-slaves (  पुकारा freedmen ) नागरिकों  .
It made the eradication of slavery an explicit war goal , in addition  to the लक्ष्य of reuniting  the Union .
On  सितंबर 22 , 1862 , lincoln था  issued a preliminary proclamation that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1 , 1863 .
None returned , and the order , signed and issued January 1 , 1863 , took effect except in locations where the  संघ था already ज़्यादातर regained  control .
The Proclamation outraged white Southerners who envisioned a race  युद्ध , angered कुछ उत्तरी डेमोक्रेट , सक्रिय  anti-slavery forces , and weakened forces in Europe that wanted to intervene to help the Confederacy .
It also lifted the spirits of African Americans both in  the दक्षिणी और उत्तरी राज्य , और led to अनेक स्लेव escaping उनके मास्टर्स  and running behind Union lines in order to have their emancipation enforced .
Sucker Punch is a 2011  अमरीकी काल्पनिक  action film directed by Zack Snyder and co-written by him and Steve Shibuya .
It is Snyder 's first  फिल्मी आधारित on an  original script .
The film stars  एमिली ब्राउनिंग , abbie cornish  , Jena Malone , Vanessa Hudgens , Jamie Chung , and Carla Gugino .
The storyline follows  the कल्पनाओं of a यंग स्त्री जो is वचनबद्ध to a  mental institution , as she makes a plan to escape the hospital before suffering a lobotomy .
The film was released in both conventional and IMAX theatres  in the संयुक्त राज्य at मध्यरात्रि on कूच  25 , 2011 .
It  प्राप्त generally ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ  from critics , but was a moderate box office success .
Front and back of Canon  powershot a95 , a  typical pocket-size digital camera
Haselblad 503CW  साथ ixpress v96c डिजिटल  back , an example of a professional digital camera system
A digital camera ( or  digicam ) is a कैमरा कि takes  video or still photographs by recording images on an electronic image sensor .
Most cameras sold today are digital , and digital cameras are incorporated into many  डिवाइस ranging इससे गुस्से और मोबाईल फोन  ( called camera phones ) to vehicles .
Digital and film  कैमरे share an ऑप्टिकल  system , typically using a lens with a variable diaphragm to focus light onto an image pickup device .
The diaphragm and shutter admit the correct amount of light to the imager , just as with film  लकिन the चित्र  pickup device is electronic rather than chemical .
However , unlike film cameras , digital cameras can display images on a screen immediately after being recorded , and store and  हटाएँ बिंब इससे मेमोरी  .
Many  डिजिटल कैमरे  can also record moving video with sound .
Some digital cameras can crop and stitch pictures and  perform अन्य elementary चित्र संपादन .
The inside and front of a Dell  poweredge वेब सर्वर , a कंप्यूटर designed  for rack mounting
Multiple web servers  may be प्रयुक्त लिये  a high traffic website , here four Sun Fire X4200 servers are installed together
Web server can refer to either the hardware ( the computer ) or the software ( the computer application ) that helps to deliver web content that  can be पहुँचा through the अंतरजाल  .
The most common use of web servers is to host websites , but there are other uses such as gaming , data storage or  कार्यशील एंटरप्राइज़ अनुप्रयोग  .
The American Red Cross ( ARC ) , also known as the American National Red Cross , is a humanitarian organization that provides  आपात सहायता , विपत्ति राहत  and education inside the United States .
It is the designated U.S. affiliate of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent  समाजों  .
Today , in addition to domestic disaster relief , the American Red Cross offers services in five other areas : community services that help the needy ; communications services and comfort for military members and their  परिवार सदस्यों  ; the collection , processing and distribution of blood and blood products ; educational programs on preparedness , health , and safety ; and international relief and development programs .
Issued a corporate charter by the United States Congress under Title 36 of the United States Code , Section  3001 , the अमरीकी नेशनल रेड क्रॉस is governed by स्वयंसेवक और समर्थित by जातियाँ  donations , income from health and safety training and products , and income from blood products .
The American Red  क्रॉस is headquartered  in Washington , D.C .
The  अध्यक्ष of  the Board of Governors , serving her second three-year term , is Bonnie McElveen-Hunter .
The current President and  मुख्य कार्यपालिका  Officer is Gail J. McGovern .
A rooster  in कोसोवो
A rooster ,  प्रर्दशित wattles ,  earlobes and comb
A  मुर्गा crowing  ( with audio )
सही
A rooster ( also called a cockerel or cock ) is a  पुरूष gallinaceous  bird .
It  प्रायः refers to a  male chicken ( Gallus gallus ) .
Immature male chickens less than  एक साल बूढ़ा हैं पुकारा  cockerels .
The term `` rooster '' originates in the United States , and the term is widely used throughout North America , as well as  ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड  .
in the संयुक्त किंगडम और  Ireland the older term `` cockerel '' is more commonly used .
``  मुर्गा '' is in सामान्य उपयोग as the नाम लिये a  male of other species of bird , for example `` Cock sparrow '' .
``  roosting '' is the  action of perching aloft to sleep at night , and is done by both sexes .
The rooster is polygamous , but can not  गार्ड अनेक nests of अंडे  at once .
He guards the general area where his hens are nesting , and will attack other  roosters कि डालें उसके territory  .
During the daytime , he usually sits on a high perch , usually 3–5 feet off the  मैदान to serve as a lookout  for his flock .
He will sound a  distinctive सचेतक कॉल  if predators are nearby .
The Pokémon Trading Card Game (  पोकीमॉन tcg ) is a collectible कार्ड  game based on the Pokémon video game series , first published in October 1996 by Media Factory in Japan .
In the US  , it थी initially प्रकाशित by  Wizards of the Coast , the company that produces , in December 1998 .
Nintendo took over  प्रकाशन in जून  2003 .
It is one of Nintendo 's last  बाकी  strong links to its heritage as a playing card company .
Land Rover is a British car manufacturer with its headquarters in Gaydon ,  warwickshire , संयुक्त किंगडम  which specialises in four-wheel-drive vehicles .
It is part of the Jaguar Land Rover group ,  a subsidiary of tata मोटर्स  of India .
It is the second  oldest four-wheel-drive  car brand in the world ( after Jeep ) .
The Land Rover name was originally used by the Rover Company for one  विशिष्ट गाडी मॉडल , नामित बस the जमीन  Rover , launched by Rover in 1948 .
Over the following years it developed into a marque encompassing a range of  four-wheel-drive मॉडल , सहित the defender , डिस्कवरी  , Freelander , Range Rover , Range Rover Sport and Range Rover Evoque .
Land Rovers are currently assembled in the company 's Halewood and Solihull plants , with  शोध और विकास लेने प्लेस at  JLR 's Gaydon and Whitley engineering centres .
Land Rover sold  194,000  vehicles worldwide in 2009 .
Although the brand originates from the original 1948 model , Land Rover as a  कम्पनी रै तभी existed चूंकि 1978  .
Prior  to इस , it थी a उत्पाद लकीर of the रोवर कम्पनी  which was subsequently absorbed into the Rover-Triumph division of the British Leyland Motor Corporation ( BL ) following Leyland Motor Corporation ’s takeover of Rover in 1967 .
The ongoing commercial success of the original Land Rover series models , and latterly the Range Rover in the 1970s in the midst of BL’s well documented business troubles prompted the establishment of a separate Land Rover company but still under the BL umbrella , remaining  भाग of the subsequent रोवर समूह in 1988 , अंतर्गत the स्वामित्व of अंग्रेजों aerospace बाद the remains of अंग्रेजों leyland  were broken up and privatised .
In 1994 Rover Group plc was  acquired  by BMW .
In 2000 , Rover Group was broken-up by BMW and Land Rover was  बेची to घाट मोटर कम्पनी , बनने  part of its Premier Automotive Group .
In 2006 Ford purchased  the रोवर ब्रांड  from BMW for around £6 million .
This reunited the Rover and Land Rover brands for the first time since  2000 जब the रोवर समूह थी टूटा  up by BMW .
In June 2008 , Ford  बेची दोनो जमीन रोवर और  Jaguar Cars to Tata Motors .
This sale also included  the dormant रोवर  brand
The cover of the first DVD  संकलन  released by Aniplex of The New Captain Shūsuke Amagai arc
The ninth season of the Bleach  दुश्मनी श्रेणी is  named .
The series is based on Tite Kubo 's manga  साथ वही  name .
The episodes are directed by Noriyuki Abe  और उत्पादित by  TV Tokyo , Dentsu , and Studio Pierrot .
The episodes ' plot focuses on  the परिचय of a नई आत्मा reaper कप्तान , shūsuke amagai , और  the mystery surrounding the Kasumiōji clan , one of the families that constitute the nobility of Soul Society .
The season began airing on April 23 , 2008  in जापानी on tv टोकियो और  ended on October 7 , 2008 .
The  अंग्रेज़ी अनुकूलन of the ब्लीच दुश्मनी is licensed  by Viz Media , and this arc began airing on August 28 , 2010 on Cartoon Network 's Adult Swim , and finished on January 29 , 2011 .
Five DVD compilations , each containing four episodes of the season ,  have महरूम released by aniplex ; the पहला  DVD compilation was released on November 26 , 2008 and the fifth on March 25 , 2009 .
A DVD box will be published by Viz  मीडिया  on December 13 , 2011 .
The episodes use three pieces of theme  म्यूज़िक : एक खोलने थीम  and two closing themes .
The opening theme is `` Chu-Bura  `` by kelun  .
The first closing  थीम is `` नारंगी '' by lil'b , प्रयुक्त लिये  episodes 168 to 179 , and the second closing theme is `` Gallop '' by pe'zmoku , used for the remainder of the episodes .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal  सरकारी ; अंतर्गत the दसवाँ  Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with laws like the Mann Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public order  अपराधों , a अपराधों कि  disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one time considered to be a  vagrancy अपराधों .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution ,  the शर्तें  of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently contain  क्रियाशील brothels  .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las Vegas–Paradise metropolitan area ) , Washoe County (  जिससे contains रेनो ) , कार्सन नगर , डगलस काउंटी , और lincoln काउंटी  .
The other counties  theoretically allow वेश्यालय वेश्यावृति ,  but some of these counties currently have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and  जीना बंद of the proceeds of a वेश्या  remain illegal under Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
as साथ अन्य देशों , वेश्यावृति  in the United States can be divided into three broad categories : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The East Coast of the United States ,  भी ज्ञात as the पूर्वी seaboard or the अटलांटिक seaboard और  commonly shortened to East Coast , refers to the easternmost coast of the United States along the Atlantic Ocean .
The states which have shoreline on the East Coast are , from north to south , the U.S. states of Maine , New Hampshire , Massachusetts , Rhode Island , Connecticut ,  नई यॉर्क , नई जर्सी , डेलावेयर , मेरीलैंड ,  Virginia , North Carolina , South Carolina , Georgia , and Florida .
Richard Milhous  निक्सन ( जनवरी 9 , 1913 – अप्रैल  22 , 1994 ) was the 37th President of the United States , serving from 1969 to 1974 , when he became the only president to resign the office .
Nixon had  previously परोसा as a रिपब्लिकन u.S. प्रतिनिधि  and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in  yorba लिंडा  , California .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law  in 1937 , returning to कैलिफ़ोर्निया  to practice law .
He and his wife , Pat  निक्सन , स्थानांतरित to वॉशिंगटन to कार्य  for the federal government in 1942 .
He  subsequently परोसा in the संयुक्त राज्य  Navy during World War II .
Nixon was elected in California to the House  of प्रतिनिधि in 1946  and to the Senate in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case established his reputation as a leading  anti-communist , और elevated  him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower , the  रिपब्लिकन पार्टी अध्यक्षीय  nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon  परोसा लिये आठ  years as vice president .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy , and lost a race for  राज्यपाल  of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again for the  प्रेसिडेंसी और थी  elected .
हालांकि निक्सन initially  escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations , and he initiated détente and the  anti-ballistic मिसाइल सन्धि साथ the सोवियत संघ the वही  year .
Domestically , his administration generally embraced  नीतियों कि transferred  power from Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed wage and price controls ,  enforced desegregation of कुछ  Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he  presided over the चंद्र  landings beginning with Apollo 11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He was  re-elected by a भूस्खलन  in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president  , spiro agnew , और a continuing  series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on August  9 , 1974 , he resigned in the फेस of लगभग निश्चित  impeachment and removal from office .
After his resignation , he controversially  प्राप्त a pardon जारी by उसके successor ,  Gerald Ford .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign  यात्राएँ , helped to rehabilitate उसके  public image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18 , 1994 , and died four  दिनों बाद  at the age of 81 .
sertraline hydrochloride ( व्यापार names zoloft  , Lustral ) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) class .
It  थी introduced  to the market by Pfizer in 1991 .
Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive–compulsive ,  दहशत , और सोशल चिंता विकार in दोनो वयस्कों और children  .
in 2011 , it थी the second-most विहित antidepressant on the u.S. खुदरा मार्केट , साथ 37,208,000 prescriptions .
The efficacy of sertraline for depression is similar to that of older tricyclic  antidepressants , लकिन इसके पक्ष प्रभाव हैं much कम सुनाया  .
Differences with newer  antidepressants हैं subtler और भी ज़्यादातर confined to पक्ष  effects .
Evidence suggests that  sertraline may कार्य बेहतर than  fluoxetine ( Prozac ) for some subtypes of depression .
Treatment of panic disorder with sertraline results in a  significant घटी of the  number of panic attacks and in improved quality of life .
For obsessive-compulsive disorder , sertraline is not as effective as cognitive behavioral  चिकित्सा ; the बेहतरीन परिणाम have महरूम हासिल by combining ये  two treatments .
Although  स्वीकृत लिये सोशल phobia और posttraumatic तनाव विकार  , sertraline leads to only modest improvement in these conditions .
Sertraline also alleviates the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder and can be used in  sub-therapeutic doses or intermittently  for its treatment .
Sertraline shares the common side effects and contraindications  of अन्य ssris , साथ ऊँची दरों of मतली , अतिसार , अनिद्रा , और यौन पक्ष प्रभाव ; however , it  does not cause weight gain , and its effects on both cognition and vigilance are relatively mild .
In pregnant women taking sertraline , the drug was present in significant  एकाग्रता in fetal रक्त , और थी भी संबद्ध साथ  a higher rate of various birth defects .
similarly to अन्य antidepressants  , the use of sertraline for depression may be associated with a higher rate of suicidality .
The Five Heartbeats is a 1991 musical drama film directed by Robert Townsend , who  co-wrote  the script with Keenan Ivory Wayans .
Distributed by 20th Century Fox , the film 's main cast includes Townsend , Michael Wright , Leon Robinson , Harry J.  lennix , tico कुएं , हेरोल्ड निकोलस of the निकोलस भाइयो , और diahann  Carroll .
The plot of the film ( which is loosely based on the lives of several artists : The Dells , The Temptations , Four Tops , Wilson Pickett , James Brown , Frankie Lymon , Sam Cooke and others ) follows the three decade  करियर of the r  & B vocal group The Five Heartbeats .
The film depicts the rise and fall of a Motown inspired soul act through the eyes of the film 's main protagonist , Donald `` Duck '' Matthews ( portrayed by  टाउनसेंड ) , जो serves as a narrator throughout  the film .
However , a  बहुमत of the सिनेमा is प्रस्तुत  in a consecutive time line as opposed to traditional flash backs .
The film includes a significant amount of  असली म्यूज़िक conceived by विभिन्न कलाकारों लिये  the film 's soundtrack , including singles such as `` A Heart Is a House for Love `` , `` We Have n't Finished Yet '' , and `` Nothing But Love '' .
The film was released to most North American audiences March 29 , 1991 however it was not made available to audiences in other continents until 2002 when a DVD was released prior to another  dvd रिलीज in 2006 लिये the फिल्मी 's 15th वर्षगांठ  .
The movie received  मिश्रित समीक्षाएँ  from critics .
Secretariat ( March 30 , 1970 – October  4 , 1989 ) थी an अमरीकी  Thoroughbred racehorse that in 1973 became the first U.S . Triple Crown champion in 25 years .
He set race records in all three events in  the श्रेणी — the केंटकी डर्बी  ( 1:59.4 ) , the Preakness Stakes ( 1:53 ) , and the Belmont Stakes ( 2:24 ) — records that still stand today .
He is considered to be one of the  महानतम  Thoroughbreds of all time .
In 1999 , ESPN ranked  सचिवालय the 35th बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी  of the 20th century , the highest ranking racehorse on the list URL_http .
He ranked second behind Man o ' War in The Blood-Horse 's List of the Top 100 U.S.  racehorses of the 20th  Century .
Secretariat was sired by Bold  शासक आउट of somethingroyal  , by Princequillo .
He was  foaled at the मर्ग in  Caroline County , Virginia .
Like his famous predecessor Man o ' War , Secretariat was a large chestnut colt and was  दिए the वही उपनाम  , `` Big Red . ''
सचिवालय 's grandsire , nasrullah  , is also the great-great-grandsire of 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew .
Owned by Penny Chenery , he was trained by Lucien Laurin and mainly ridden by  Canadian  jockey Ron Turcotte , along with apprentice jockey Paul Feliciano ( first two races ) , and veteran Eddie Maple ( last race ) .
He raced in Chenery 's Meadow Stable 's blue and white checkered colors and his  दूल्हे थी एडी स्वेद  .
Secretariat  stood लगभग लम्बा , और  weighed , with a 75-inch girth , in his racing prime .
A typical  12 v , 40 ah lead-acid  car battery
an ऑटोमोटिव  battery is a type of rechargeable battery that supplies electric energy to an automobile .
Usually this refers to an SLI  बैटरी ( starting , lighting  , ignition ) to power the starter motor , the lights , and the ignition system of a vehicle’s engine .
Automotive SLI batteries are usually lead-acid type , and are made of six galvanic cells  in श्रेणी to provide a 12 वोल्ट प्रणाली  .
Each cell provides  2.1 volts लिये  a total of 12.6 volt at full charge .
Heavy vehicles such as highway trucks or tractors ,  प्रायः equipped साथ डीज़ल इंजन , may have दो बैटरी in श्रेणी लिये a 24  volt system , or may have parallel strings of batteries .
Lead-acid batteries are made up of plates of lead and separate plates of lead dioxide , which are submerged  into an electrolyte समाधान of परिचय 38 %  sulfuric acid and 62 % water .
This  कल्याणकारी a रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया कि  releases electrons , allowing them to flow through conductors to produce electricity .
As the battery discharges , the acid of the electrolyte reacts  साथ the सामग्री of the प्लेटों , बदलना  their surface to lead sulfate .
When the battery is recharged , the chemical reaction is reversed : the lead sulfate reforms  into सीसे डाइऑक्साइड और सीसे  .
With the plates restored to their original condition , the  प्रक्रम may अभी  be repeated .
बैटरी रीसाइक्लिंग of  automotive batteries reduces the need for resources required for manufacture of new batteries , diverts toxic lead from landfills , and prevents risk of improper disposal .
full-time नियुक्ति is नियुक्ति in जिससे  a person works a minimum number of hours defined as such by his/her employer .
Full-time employment  प्रायः आता साथ लाभ कि हैं नहीं typically  offered to part-time , temporary , or flexible workers , such as annual leave , sickleave , and health insurance .
full-time कार्य  are often considered careers .
They generally pay more than part-time jobs ,  और प्रायः carry अधिक  hours per week .
The Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) does not define  full-time  employment or part-time employment .
This is a matter generally to be determined by the  नियोक्ता ( us विभाग of  Labor ) .
The definition by employer can  vary और is generally  published in a company 's Employee Handbook .
Companies commonly require from 30–35 or 40 hours per week to be defined as  full-time और इसलिए योग्य  for benefits .
Full-Time status varies between company and is often based on  the शिफ़्ट the कर्मचारी जरूर कार्य  during each work week .
The `` standard '' work week consists of five  eight-hour दिनों , commonly परोसा between  9:00AM to 5:00PM totaling 40 hours .
While a four-day week generally consists of four ten-hour days ; it  may भी consist of as छोटी as नौ घंटों लिये  a total of a 36 hour work week .
Twelve-hour shifts  हैं प्रायः तीन दिनों  per week , unless the company has the intention of paying out the employee overtime .
Overtime is legally paid out anytime  an कर्मचारी works  more than 40 hours per week .
The  विधिक न्यूनतम लिये  overtime starts at Base Pay + One-Half .
The increased payout  is माना to compensate थोड़ा  for the increased fatigue which a person experiences on such long shifts .
Shifts can also be very irregular , as in retail , but are still full-time if  the जरूरी क्रमांक of घंटों is  reached .
There are some situations where a person who needs full-time work is dropped to  part-time , जिससे  is sometimes a form of constructive dismissal to avoid paying unemployment benefits to a laid-off worker .
Seahorse is the title given  to 54 प्रजाति of  marine fish in the genus Hippocampus .
`` Hippocampus '' comes from the Ancient Greek hippos meaning ``  घोड़ा '' और kampos अर्थ  `` sea monster '' .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by  the कॉंग्रेस of the संयुक्त राज्य as शीर्षक ii  of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture , importation , possession , use and distribution of certain substances  is regulated  .
The Act also  परोसा as the नेशनल  implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The  विधान निर्मित पाँच schedules ( classifications )  , with varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes  अनुसूचित अन्य substances through विधान ऐसे as the hillory J. farias और सामन्था reid date-rape रोकथाम अधिनियम of 2000 , जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate  in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be made on criteria including potential for abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
माया  numerals
Maya numerals are a vigesimal ( base - twenty ) numeral system used by the  pre-columbian माया सभ्यता  .
The numerals are made up of three symbols ;  शून्य ( शेल आकार ) , एक ( a  dot ) and five ( a bar ) .
For example , thirteen is written as three dots in a horizontal  पंक्ति ऊपर दो आड़ा लाइनों stacked ऊपर प्रत्येक अन्य  .
Lyndon Baines Johnson ( August 27 , 1908 – January 22 , 1973 ) , often referred to as LBJ , was the 36th President of the United  राज्य ( 1963–1969 ) , a स्थिति he assumed बाद उसके सेवा as the  37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only four people who served in all four elected federal offices of the United States : Representative , Senator , Vice  अध्यक्ष , और अध्यक्ष  .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United States  प्रतिनिधि इससे 1937–1949 और as a सीनेटर इससे 1949–1961 ,  including six years as United States Senate Majority Leader , two as Senate Minority Leader and two as Senate Majority Whip .
After campaigning unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination in 1960 , Johnson was asked  by जॉन F. कैनेडी to be उसके कार्यशील mate लिये the 1960 अध्यक्षीय चुनाव  .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency following the assassination of John  F. कैनेडी on नवम्बर 22 , 1963 , समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद  and was elected President in his own right , winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society `` legislation that included laws that upheld civil rights , public broadcasting ,  medicare , medicaid , पर्यावरणीय सुरक्षा , सहायता to शिक्षा ,  and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was  प्रसिद्ध लिये उसके domineering व्यक्तित्व और the `` जॉनसन उपचार  , '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation .
Meanwhile ,  जॉनसन escalated अमरीकी भागीदारी in the वियतनाम  War , from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to 550,000 combat troops in early 1968 , as American casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a large angry antiwar movement based especially on  विश्वविद्यालयों campuses  in the U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965 , and  अपराधों दरों soared , as उसके प्रतिद्वंद्वियों  raised demands for `` law and order '' policies .
The Democratic Party split in multiple feuding factions , and after Johnson did  poorly in the 1968 नई हैम्पशायर  primary , he ended his bid for reelection .
रिपब्लिकन रिचर्ड  Nixon was elected to succeed him .
Historians argue  कि जॉनसन 's प्रेसिडेंसी चिह्नित  the peak of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era .
Johnson is ranked favorably by some historians  क्युकी of उसके घरेलू  policies .
Progesterone also known as P4 ( pregn-4-ene-3,20-dione )  is a c-21 स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन शामिल in the  female menstrual cycle , pregnancy ( supports gestation ) and embryogenesis of humans and other species .
Progesterone belongs to a class of hormones called progestogens , and is the  प्रमुख naturally occurring  human progestogen .
Big Bird is a protagonist of the children 's  टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ तिल गली  .
Officially performed by Caroll Spinney since 1969 , he is an eight-foot two-inch ( 249 cm  ) लम्बा उज्जवल primrose-yellow  bird .
He can roller skate , ice skate , dance , sing , write poetry , draw  और भी सवारी a unicycle  .
But despite this wide array of talents , he is prone to frequent misunderstandings , on one occasion even singing  the वर्णमाला as एक बिग long शब्द  ( from the song called `` ABC-DEF-GHI , '' pronounced `` ab-keddef-gajihkel-monop-quristuv-wixyz '' ) , pondering what it could ever mean .
He lives in a large nest behind the 123 Sesame Street  brownstone और रै a टेडी भालू नामित रडार  .
Webtrends is  a निजी कम्पनी headquartered  in Portland , Oregon , United States .
It provides web , social ,  और मोबाईल analytics और अन्य तन्त्र  solutions related to marketing intelligence .
The  कम्पनी थी संस्थापित in 1993 और अभी serves  more than 10,000 large and small firms. < ref name='Intelligent Enterprise 2007-05-21 ' >
The Second Crusade ( 1145–1149 )  थी the दूसरी  major crusade launched from Europe .
The Second Crusade was started in response to the  पतन of the काउंटी of edessa the  previous year to the forces of Zengi .
The county had been founded during the  पहला crusade ( 1096–1099 )  by Baldwin of Boulogne in 1098 .
While  it थी the पहला जेहादी  state to be founded , it was also the first to fall .
The Second Crusade was announced by Pope Eugene III , and was the first of the crusades to be led by  यूरोपीय किंग्स , namely लुई सात of फ़्रांस और कोनराड iii of जर्मनी , साथ सहायता इससे  a number of other European nobles .
The armies of the two  किंग्स marched separately  across Europe .
After crossing Byzantine territory into Anatolia ,  दोनो सेना यहूद separately  defeated by the Seljuq Turks .
The main Western Christian source , Odo of Deuil , and Syriac Christian sources claim that the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Comnenus secretly hindered the crusaders ' progress ,  विशेषकर in आनातोलिया जहाँ he is कथित to have deliberately  ordered Turks to attack them .
Louis and Conrad and  the remnants of उनके सेना पहुँचे  Jerusalem and , in 1148 , participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus .
The crusade in the east was a  विफलता लिये the  crusaders and a great victory for the Muslims .
It would ultimately have a key influence on the  पतन of जेरूसलम और दे वृद्धि  to the Third Crusade at the end of the 12th century .
The only success of the Second Crusade came to a combined  फ़ोर्स of 13,000 फ्लेमिश , frisian , नॉर्मन , अंग्रेज़ी  , Scottish , and German crusaders in 1147 .
Travelling from England , by ship , to the Holy  जमीन , the फौज रोका  and helped the smaller ( 7,000 ) Portuguese army in the capture of Lisbon , expelling its Moorish occupants .
Wal-Mart Stores , Inc. ( ) ,  ब्रांडेड as walmart , is an अमरीकी बहुराष्ट्रीय खुदरा  corporation that runs chains of large discount department stores and warehouse stores .
The company is the world 's third largest public corporation , according to the Fortune Global 500 list in 2012 , the biggest  निजी नियोक्ता in the संसार साथ over  two million employees , and is the largest retailer in the world .
Walmart remains a family-owned business , as the company is  नियंत्रित by the वाल्टन परिवार , जो  own a 48 percent stake in Walmart .
It is also one of  the संसार  's most valuable companies .
The company  थी संस्थापित by sam वाल्टन  in 1962 , incorporated on October 31 , 1969 , and publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972 .
It  is  headquartered in Bentonville , Arkansas .
Walmart is  भी the largest  grocery retailer in the United States .
In 2009 , it  उत्पन्न 51 प्रतिशत  of its US $ 258 billion sales in the U.S. from grocery business .
It  भी owns  and operates the Sam 's Club retail warehouses in North America .
By 1988 ,  wal-mart थी the सबसे लाभप्रद  retailer in the US , and by November 1990 , it outsold K-mart .
By  1991 it outsold सियर्स in खुदरा  , making it America 's largest retailer , a distinction it still holds .
walmart रै 8,500 स्टोर्स in 15 देशों  , under 55 different names .
the कम्पनी operates अंतर्गत the walmart नाम in the संयुक्त राज्य , सहित the 50 राज्य और प्यूर्टो रीको .
It operates  in मैक्सिको as  Walmex , in the United Kingdom as Asda , in Japan as Seiyu , and in India as Best Price .
It has  wholly  owned operations in Argentina , Brazil , and Canada .
Walmart 's investments outside North America have had mixed results : its operations in the United Kingdom , South America , and China  हैं अत्यधिक कामयाब , whereas ventures in जर्मनी और दक्षिण कोरियाई यहूद unsuccessful  .
Robert William Gary Moore ( 4 April 1952 – 6 February 2011  ) , थी a उत्तरी आयरिश संगीतकार , सबसे widely  recognised as a singer and guitarist .
In a career dating back to the 1960s , Moore played with artists including Phil Lynott and Brian Downey during his teens , leading  उसे to सदस्यताएँ साथ the आयरिश bands स्किड पंक्ति और  Thin Lizzy on three separate occasions .
Moore shared the stage with such blues and rock luminaries as B.B . King , Albert King ,  कोलोसियम ii , जार्ज हैरिसन  and Greg Lake , as well as having a successful solo career .
He guested on a number of albums recorded by high profile musicians , including a cameo  रूप playing the सीसे गिटार सोलो on `` वो  's My Baby `` from Traveling Wilburys Vol . 3 .
An example of  रैक आरोहित  servers
A web hosting  सेवा is a प्रकार of अंतरजाल होस्टिंग  service that allows individuals and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts are companies that provide space on a server owned  or leased लिये उपयोग by क्लाइंट , as खूब as providing अंतरजाल  connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web hosts can  भी provide आंकड़ा बीच स्पेस  and connectivity to the Internet for other servers located in their data center , called colocation , also known as Housing in Latin America or France .
The scope of web  होस्टिंग सेवाएं varies  greatly .
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting , where  फाइलें can be अपलोड  via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface .
The files are usually delivered to the Web `` as is '' or  साथ minimal प्रसंस्करण  .
Many Internet service providers ( ISPs ) offer this service free  to सदस्य  .
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page hosting  इससे वैकल्पिक सेवा  providers .
Personal web site  होस्टिंग is  typically free , advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business web site  होस्टिंग प्रायः रै a उच्चतर व्यय  depending upon the size and type of the website .
सिंगल पेज होस्टिंग  is generally sufficient for personal web pages .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive  पैकेज कि provides डेटाबेस  support and application development platforms ( e.g . PHP , Java , Ruby on Rails , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow customers to write or install scripts for applications  जैसे forums और सामग्री प्रबन्धन  .
Also , Secure Sockets  परत ( एसएसएल  ) is typically used for e-commerce .
The host may also provide an interface or control panel for  मैनेजिंग the वेब सर्वर और installing स्क्रिप्ट , as खूब  as other modules and service applications like e-mail .
Some hosts  specialize in निश्चित तन्त्र or सेवाएं  ( e.g . e-commerce ) , which are commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure .
Obstetrics ( from the Latin obstare , `` to stand by '' ) is the medical specialty dealing with the care of all women  's reproductive tracts और उनके children दौरान गर्भावस्था (  prenatal period ) , childbirth and the postnatal period .
Many  obstetricians हैं भी  gynecologists , meaning they perform in both specialties .
In the United States , these physicians are commonly referred to as OB/GYNs  .
The Wright brothers , Orville ( August 19 , 1871 – January 30 , 1948 ) and Wilbur ( April 16 , 1867 – May 30 , 1912 ) , were two American brothers , inventors , and aviation pioneers who were credited with inventing and  भवन the संसार 's पहला कामयाब वायुयान और बनाना the पहला  controlled , powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight , on December 17 , 1903 .
From 1905 to 1907 , the brothers developed their flying machine  into the पहला  practical fixed-wing aircraft .
Although not the first to build and fly experimental aircraft , the Wright brothers were the first  to इफ़तेरा वायुयान नियंत्रण कि बना fixed-wing संचालित  flight possible .
The brothers ' fundamental breakthrough was  उनके आविष्कार of three-axis  control , which enabled the pilot to steer the aircraft effectively and to maintain its equilibrium .
This method became standard and remains standard on  fixed-wing वायुयान  of all kinds .
From the beginning of their aeronautical work , the Wright brothers focused on  विकासशील a विश्वसनीय विधि of  pilot control as the key to solving `` the flying problem '' .
This approach differed significantly from other  experimenters of the समय जो put अधिक  emphasis on developing powerful engines .
Using a small homebuilt wind tunnel , the Wrights also collected more accurate data than any before , enabling them to design and build wings and  propellers कि यहूद अधिक कुशल  than any before .
Their first U.S. patent , 821,393 , did not claim invention of a flying machine , but  बल्कि , the आविष्कार of a प्रणाली of aerodynamic  control that manipulated a flying machine 's surfaces .
They gained the  mechanical कौशल अनिवार्य लिये उनके  success by working for years in their shop with printing presses , bicycles , motors , and other machinery .
Their work with bicycles in particular  बहकावे उनके विश्वास कि an अस्थिर  vehicle like a flying machine could be controlled and balanced with practice .
From 1900 until their first powered flights in late 1903 , they  conducted extensive glider परीक्षण कि भी  developed their skills as pilots .
उनके सायकिल दूकान कर्मचारी  Charlie Taylor became an important part of the team , building their first aircraft engine in close collaboration with the brothers .
The Wright brothers ' status as inventors of the  वायुयान रै महरूम विषय  to counter-claims by various parties .
Much controversy persists over  the अनेक स्पर्धा  claims of early aviators .
America 's Next Top Model , Cycle 12 is the  बारहवीं साईकिल of अमेरिका 's अगला शीर्ष मॉडल और the  sixth season to air on The CW network .
It premiered on  कूच  4 , 2009 .
The cycle 's catch phrase is  `` मिलेंगी in the  Fold . ''
The cycle 's promotional song  is महिला गागा 's `` the  Fame '' .
The prizes for  इस साईकिल  are:
A modeling contract with  elite मॉडल प्रबन्धन  .
A fashion spread  और कवर  in Seventeen .
A 100,000 contract  साथ covergirl  cosmetics .
The first half of the cycle took place in New  यॉर्क नगर , चलती the  show back from Los Angeles last season .
The international  गंतव्य लिये इस साईकिल is são पाउलो  , Brazil , the series first visit to South America .
the क्रमांक of लड़कियों थी घटाया to  13 , the first time since Cycle 9 , after being maintained at 14 in the last two cycles .
This was the last time Paulina Porizkova participated  as न्यायधीश  .
The winner was 20-year-old Teyona  एंडरसन इससे woodstown , नई जर्सी .
This season  averaged 4.35 लाख  viewers per episode .
Exxon Mobil Corporation ,  or exxonmobil , is an अमरीकी  multinational oil and gas corporation headquartered in Irving , Texas , United States .
It is a direct descendant of John D.  rockefeller 's मानक आयल कम्पनी , और  was formed on November 30 , 1999 , by the merger of Exxon and Mobil .
It is affiliated with  इम्पीरियल आयल जिससे operates  in Canada .
ExxonMobil is the world 's largest company by revenue and in 2013 , became the  largest सरेआम traded कम्पनी by मार्केट capitalization  in the world .
The company is  क्रमित # 5  globally in Forbes Global 2000 list in 2013 .
exxon mobil 's reserves यहूद 72 अरब  oil-equivalent barrels at the end of 2007 and , at then ( 2007 ) rates of production , are expected to last over 14 years .
With 37 oil refineries in 21 countries constituting a combined daily refining capacity of , Exxon Mobil is the largest refiner in the world , a title that was also associated with Standard Oil since its  incorporation  in 1870 .
ExxonMobil  is the largest of the संसार 's supermajors  with daily production of 3.921 million BOE ( barrels of oil equivalent ) .
In 2008 , this was  लगभग 3 % of  world production , which is less than several of the largest state-owned petroleum companies .
When ranked by oil  और गैस reserves  it is 14th in the world with less than 1 % of the total .
A 2012 article in The Daily Telegraph says that ExxonMobil has `` grown into one of the planet’s most hated corporations , able to  determine अमरीकी विदेशी नीति और the भाग्य of संपूर्ण राष्ट्र ''  .
In terms of its environmental record ,  exxonmobil increasingly drills in terrains  leased to them by dictatorships , such as those in Chad and Equatorial Guinea .
Lee Raymond , the  corporation’s मुख्य कार्यपालिका जबतक 2005 , थी  `` notoriously sceptical about climate change and disliked government interference at any level '' .
The company was widely criticized for its slow response to cleaning its  1989 valdez आयल spill in अलास्का  .
This article is about the  ग्लोब थिएटर  of Shakespeare .
For the modern reconstruction in  लंदन , देखिए शेक्सपियर  's Globe .
For other uses , see Globe  थिएटर (  disambiguation ) .
The Globe Theatre was a theatre in  लंदन संबद्ध साथ विलियम शेक्सपियर  .
It was built in 1599 by Shakespeare 's playing company , the Lord Chamberlain 's Men , on land owned by Thomas Brend and inherited by his son , Nicholas Brend and  पोता सर मैथ्यू  Brend , and was destroyed by fire on 29 June 1613 .
A  दूसरी ग्लोब  Theatre was built on the same site by June 1614 and closed in 1642 .
A  आधुनिक पुनर्निर्माण of the ग्लोब  , named `` Shakespeare 's Globe `` , opened in 1997 approximately from the site of the original theatre .
It 's a Wonderful Life is a 1946 American Christmas drama film produced and directed  by फ़्रैंक capra , आधारित on the छोटी  story `` The Greatest Gift `` , which Philip Van Doren Stern wrote in 1939 and privately published in 1945 .
The film is considered one of the most loved films in American cinema and has become traditional viewing during the Christmas season ,  alongside लोकप्रिय क्लासिक ऐसे as चार्ल्स डिकेंस  ' A Christmas Carol .
The film stars James Stewart as George Bailey , a man who has given  up उसके सपनो in अनुक्रम to सहायता अन्य और जिनकी निकट आत्महत्या on क्रिसमस संध्या brings परिचय  the intervention of his guardian angel , Clarence Odbody ( Henry Travers ) .
Clarence shows George all the lives he has touched and how different  जीवन in उसके जातियाँ of bedford जलप्रपात होता  be had he never been born .
Despite initially performing poorly at the box office due to high production costs and stiff competition at the time of its release , the film has come to be regarded as a classic  और is a स्टेपल of क्रिसमस टेलीविज़न around the संसार  .
Theatrically , the film 's break-even point was actually $ 6.3 million , approximately twice the  उत्पादन लागत , a फिगर it never  came close to achieving in its initial release .
An appraisal in 2006 reported : ``  हालांकि it थी नहीं the पूरा बक्सा दफ्तर विफलता कि आज everyone मानता ... it थी initially  a major disappointment and confirmed , at least to the studios , that Capra was no longer capable of turning out the populist features that made his films the must-see , money-making events they once were . ''
The film was nominated for five Oscars and has been recognized by the American Film Institute as one of the 100 best American films ever made , placing number  11 on इसके आरंभिक 1998  greatest movie list , and would also place number one on its list of the most inspirational American films of all time .
Data  गोदाम  Overview
In computing  , a आंकड़ा गोदाम  or enterprise data warehouse ( DW , DWH , or EDW ) is a database used for reporting and data analysis .
It is  a सेंट्रल repository  of data which is created by integrating data from one or more disparate sources .
Data warehouses store current as well as historical data and are used for creating trending  रिपोर्ट्स लिये वरिष्ठ प्रबन्धन रिपोर्टिंग ऐसे as सालाना और त्रैमासिक  comparisons .
The data stored in the warehouse are  अपलोड इससे the operational प्रणालियों  ( such as marketing , sales etc. , shown in the figure to the right ) .
The data may pass through an  operational आंकड़ा स्टोर  for additional operations before they are used in the DW for reporting .
The  ठेठ etl -आधारd आंकड़ा गोदाम उपयोग  staging , data integration , and access layers to house its key functions .
The staging  परत or स्टेजिंग डेटाबेस  stores raw data extracted from each of the disparate source data systems .
The integration layer integrates the disparate data sets by  transforming the आंकड़ा इससे the स्टेजिंग  layer often storing this transformed data in an operational data store ( ODS ) database .
The integrated data are then moved  to yet another डेटाबेस , प्रायः पुकारा the आंकड़ा गोदाम डेटाबेस , जहाँ  the data is arranged into hierarchical groups often called dimensions and into facts and aggregate facts .
The combination of facts and  आयाम is sometimes पुकारा a स्टार  schema .
The access layer helps  उपयोक्ता retrieve  data .
A data warehouse constructed from an integrated  आंकड़ा सोर्स प्रणालियों करता नहीं आवश्यकता  ETL , staging databases , or operational data store databases .
The integrated data source  प्रणालियों may be माना to be a भाग of a वितरित  operational data store layer .
आंकड़ा संघ विधि or आंकड़ा आभासीकरण विधि may be प्रयुक्त  to access the distributed integrated source data systems to consolidate and aggregate data directly into the data warehouse database tables .
Unlike the ETL-based data warehouse , the integrated source data systems and the data warehouse  are  all integrated since there is no transformation of dimensional or reference data .
This integrated data warehouse architecture supports the drill down from the  कुल आंकड़ा of the आंकड़ा गोदाम to the transactional आंकड़ा  of the integrated source data systems .
Data warehouses can  be subdivided  into data marts .
Data marts  स्टोर subsets of  data from a warehouse .
This definition of the data warehouse focuses  on आंकड़ा भंडार  .
The main source  of the आंकड़ा is cleaned ,  transformed , cataloged and made available for use by managers and other business professionals for data mining , online analytical processing , market research and decision support ( Marakas & O'Brien 2009 ) .
However , the means to retrieve and analyze  आंकड़ा , to निकालें , रूपांतरण और  load data , and to manage the data dictionary are also considered essential components of a data warehousing system .
Many  सन्दर्भ to आंकड़ा warehousing  use this broader context .
Thus , an expanded definition for data warehousing includes business intelligence  टूल्स , टूल्स to निकालें , रूपांतरण और लोड आंकड़ा into the  repository , and tools to manage and retrieve metadata .
Portland stone  पाषाण on the आइल  of Portland , England
An abandoned construction aggregate  पाषाण निकट  Adelaide , South Australia
A quarry is a type of open-pit mine from  जिससे चट्टान or खनिज हैं  extracted .
Quarries are generally used for  extracting भवन सामग्री , ऐसे as  dimension stone , construction aggregate , riprap , sand , and gravel .
They are often collocated with concrete and asphalt  पौधे due to the आवश्यकता लिये विशाल amounts of कुल  in those materials .
Open mines that produce minerals are typically referred to as  खोलें गड्ढे खानों  .
The word quarry can include underground quarrying for stone ,  ऐसे as नहाना  stone .
Mormons ( ) are a religious and cultural group related to Mormonism , the principal branch of the Latter Day Saint movement of  restorationist christianity  , which began with the visions of Joseph Smith in upstate New York during the 1820s .
बाद स्मिथ 's मौत  in 1844 the Mormons followed Brigham Young to what would become the Utah Territory .
Today Mormons are understood to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ  of latter-day संतो ( lds  Church ) .
Some Mormons are also either independent or  non-practicing .
the बीच of mormon सांस्कृतिक influence is in  Utah , and North America has more Mormons than any other continent , though the majority of Mormons live outside the United States .
Mormons have developed a strong sense of  communality कि तना इससे उनके  doctrine and history .
दौरान the 19th सदी mormon converts tended to  gather to a central geographic location , and between 1852 and 1890 a minority of Mormons openly practiced plural marriage , a form of religious polygamy .
Mormons dedicate large amounts  of समय और संसाधन to सेवारत in उनके गिरिजाघर  , and many young Mormons choose to serve a full-time proselytizing mission .
Mormons have a health code that eschews   alcoholic beverages , tobacco , coffee , tea , and other addictive substances .
They tend to be very family-oriented , and have strong connections across generations and with extended  परिवार , परावर्तक of उनके विश्वास  that families can be sealed together beyond death and throughout eternity .
Mormons also have a strict law  of शुद्धता , requiring abstention  from sexual relations outside of marriage and strict fidelity within marriage .
Mormons  self-identify as ईसाई  , though some of their beliefs differ from mainstream Christianity .
Mormons believe in the Bible , as well  as अन्य किताबे  of scripture , such as the Book of Mormon .
They have a unique  दृश्य of cosmology , और मानना कि  all people are spirit-children of God .
mormons मानना कि returning  to God requires following the example of Jesus Christ , and accepting his atonement through ordinances such as baptism .
They believe that  मसीह 's गिरिजाघर थी लौटी  through Joseph Smith , and is guided by living prophets and apostles .
सेंट्रल to mormon आस्था is the विश्वास कि  God speaks to his children and answers their prayers .
In financial accounting , assets are  आर्थिक  resources .
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable of being owned or controlled to produce value and that is  आयोजित to have धनात्मक आर्थिक  value is considered an asset .
Simply stated , assets  represent मान of स्वामित्व कि can be परिवर्तित into नकदी  ( although cash itself is also considered an asset ) .
The  संतुलन चादर of  a firm records the monetaryJ .
G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest  जेब cpa '' , wiley  , 2005.There are different methods of assessing the monetary value of the assets recorded on the Balance Sheet .
In some cases , the  ऐतिहासिक लागत is प्रयुक्त ; ऐसे  that the value of the asset when it was bought in the past is used as the monetary value .
In other instances , the present fair market value of the asset  is प्रयुक्त to determine the मान  shown on the balance sheet .
value  of the एसेट  owned by the firm .
It is money and  अन्य valuables belonging  to an individual or business .
Two major asset classes are tangible  एसेट और intangible एसेट  .
Tangible  एसेट contain विभिन्न subclasses  , including current assets and fixed assets.J .
Downes , J.E . Goodman , `` Dictionary of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 Current assets include inventory , while fixed assets include such items as buildings and  उपकरण .J . downes , j.e . गुडमैन , `` शब्दकोष  of Finance & Investment Terms '' , Baron 's Financial Guides , 2003 ; and J. G. Siegel , N. Dauber & J. K. Shim , `` The Vest Pocket CPA '' , Wiley , 2005 .
Intangible assets are nonphysical resources and rights that have a value to the firm because they give the firm some kind of advantage in  the मार्केट प्लेस  .
Examples of intangible assets are  साख , copyrights ,  trademarks , patents and computer programs , and financial assets , including such items as accounts receivable , bonds and stocks .
A neuron ( or ; also known as a neurone or nerve cell ) is an electrically  excitable कोशिका कि प्रक्रियाओं और transmits सूचना  through electrical and chemical signals .
A chemical  सिग्नल occurs via  a synapse , a specialized connection with other cells .
Neurons connect to  प्रत्येक अन्य to रूप neural  networks .
Neurons  हैं the कोर components  of the nervous system , which includes the brain , spinal cord , and peripheral ganglia .
A number of specialized types of neurons exist : sensory neurons respond to touch , sound , light  और numerous अन्य stimuli affecting  cells of the sensory organs that then send signals to the spinal cord and brain .
Motor neurons  प्राप्त सिग्नल इससे the दिमाग  and spinal cord , cause muscle contractions , and affect glands .
Interneurons connect neurons  to अन्य न्यूरॉन्स भीतर the  same region of the brain or spinal cord .
A typical  न्यूरॉन possesses a  cell body ( often called the soma ) , dendrites , and an axon .
dendrites हैं पतला structures कि उठता इससे the कोशिका देह ,  often extending for hundreds of micrometres and branching multiple times , giving rise to a complex `` dendritic tree '' .
An axon is  a खास सेल्यूलर एक्सटेंशन कि arises इससे  the cell body at a site called the axon hillock and travels for a distance , as far as 1 meter in humans or even more in other species .
The cell body of a neuron frequently gives rise to multiple dendrites , but never  to अधिक than एक  axon , although the axon may branch hundreds of times before it terminates .
At the  बहुमत of synapses , सिग्नल हैं भेजा  from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another .
There  हैं , however , अनेक अपवाद to ये नियम : न्यूरॉन्स  that lack dendrites , neurons that have no axon , synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite , etc .
All neurons are  electrically excitable , maintaining वोल्टेज अनुपात आरपार उनके झिल्लियों by अर्थात् of metabolically  driven ion pumps , which combine with ion channels embedded in the membrane to generate intracellular-versus-extracellular concentration differences of ions such as sodium , potassium , chloride , and calcium .
Changes in the  cross-membrane वोल्टेज can alter the  function of voltage-dependent ion channels .
If the voltage changes by a large enough amount , an all-or-none electrochemical pulse called an action potential is generated , which travels rapidly along the cell 's axon , and  activates सिनेप्टिक कनेक्शन्स साथ  other cells when it arrives .
न्यूरॉन्स  do not undergo cell division .
In most cases , neurons are  उत्पन्न by खास प्रकार of स्टेम  cells .
Astrocytes , a type of glial cell , have also been observed to turn into neurons by virtue of  the स्टेम  cell characteristic pluripotency .
In humans , neurogenesis largely ceases during adulthood—but in two brain areas , the hippocampus and olfactory bulb , there is strong evidence for  पीढी of substantial संख्याएँ of नई न्यूरॉन्स  .
Super Bowl XLIII was an American football game between the American Football Conference ( AFC ) champion Pittsburgh Steelers and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion  एरिज़ोना कार्डिनल्स to decide the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) चैंपियन  for the 2008 season .
The Steelers  पराजित  the Cardinals by the score of 27–23 .
The game was played on February 1 , 2009 , at Raymond James  स्टेडियम in tampa , फ्लोरिडा  .
With this win , the Steelers became the first  टोली to जीत छह  Super Bowls .
Pittsburgh , who finished the regular season with  a 12–4 रिकार्ड , भी जीती  their second Super Bowl in four years after winning Super Bowl XL at the end of the 2005 season .
The Cardinals entered the game seeking their first NFL title since 1947 ,  the longest चैंपियनशिप सूखा in the  league .
The club became an unexpected winner during the regular season , compiling a 9–7 record , and  the playoffs साथ the सहायता of सिर कोच  Ken Whisenhunt , who was the Steelers ' offensive coordinator in Super Bowl XL , and the re-emergence of quarterback Kurt Warner , who was the Super Bowl MVP in Super Bowl XXXIV with his former team , St. Louis Rams .
Pittsburgh jumped to a 17–7 halftime lead , aided by linebacker James Harrison  's सुपर कटोरी रिकार्ड 100-yard interception  return for a touchdown .
Trailing 20–7 at the start of the fourth quarter , Arizona scored 16  अनुत्तरित अंक , सहित चौड़ी receiver लैरी fitzgerald  's 64-yard touchdown reception , to take the lead with 2:37 remaining in the game .
But  the स्टीलर्स marched 78 गज to स्कोर on चौड़ी  receiver Santonio Holmes ' 6-yard game-winning touchdown catch with 35 seconds left .
Holmes , who caught nine passes for 131 yards and a  touchdown , सहित चार receptions लिये 73  yards on that final game-winning drive , was named Super Bowl MVP .
He became the sixth wide receiver to win the award , and also was  the तीसरा पिट्सबर्ग receiver  to win the award , following Lynn Swann and Hines Ward .
Despite the global financial crisis and limited amount of ancillary festivities that are normally held before the game , the NBC television network broadcast attracted an  औसत u.S. दर्शक of 98.7 लाख दर्शक , बनाना it the सबसे देखी सुपर कटोरी in  history to that point .
A diagram of the electromagnetic spectrum , showing various  गुण आरपार the  range of frequencies and wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the  दायरा of सब संभावित  frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an object has a different meaning , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or  अवशोषित by कि  particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for  आधुनिक  radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom .
The limit for long  wavelengths is the आकार of the ब्रह्मांड itself , जबकि  it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic and other probing interactions , as ways to  पढ़ाई और characterize पदार्थ  .
In addition , radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and  निर्माण ( देखिए इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक विकिरण  for more applications ) .
लेजेंड
Marchantia , a  liverwort
Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes ( land plants ) that do not have true vascular tissue and are  इसलिए पुकारा ' non-vascular पौधे  ' .
Some bryophytes do have specialized tissues for  the हस्तांतरण  of water ; however since these do not contain lignin , they are not considered to be true vascular tissue .
Currently bryophytes are thought not to be a natural or monophyletic group ; however the name is convenient and remains in use as a collective term for  mosses , hornworts , और liverworts  .
Bryophytes produce enclosed reproductive structures ( gametangia  और sporangia ) , लकिन वे उपज neither  flowers nor seeds , reproducing via spores .
The term bryophyte  आता इससे  Greek βρύον , bryon , `` tree-moss , oyster-green '' + φυτόν - phyton `` plant '' .
A bank is a financial institution and a financial intermediary that  स्वीकृत जमा और चैनल्स those जमा into lending  activities , either directly by loaning or indirectly through capital markets .
A bank is the connection between  ग्राहक कि have पूंजी deficits और ग्राहक  with capital surpluses .
Due to their influence within a financial system and an economy , banks are generally  अत्यधिक  regulated in most countries .
Most banks operate under a system known as fractional reserve banking where they hold only a small reserve of the  निधि deposited और lend आउट the  rest for profit .
They are generally subject to minimum capital requirements which are based on an international   set of capital standards , known as the Basel Accords .
The oldest bank still in  अस्तित्व is मोंटे देई paschi di सियेना  , headquartered in Siena , Italy , which has been operating continuously since 1472 .
It is followed by Berenberg Bank of Hamburg ( 1590 )  और sveriges riksbank of  Sweden ( 1668 ) .
Banking in its modern  भाव विकसित in समृद्ध शहरों of  Renaissance Italy , such as Florence , Venice and Genoa .
In the history of banking , a number of banking  dynasties —among उन्हें notably medici  , Fugger , Welser , Berenberg , Baring and Rothschild —have played a central role over many centuries .
the एक्सबॉक्स is a  video game console manufactured by Microsoft .
It was released on November 15 , 2001 in North America , February 22 , 2002 in  जापानी , और कूच 14 , 2002 in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और यूरोपीय .
It was Microsoft 's first foray into the  गेमिंग कंसोल मार्केट  .
As part of the sixth-generation of gaming , the Xbox competed with  सोनी 's प्लेस्टेशन 2 , sega 's dreamcast ( जिससे रोका  American sales before the Xbox went on sale ) , and Nintendo 's GameCube .
The Xbox was the first console offered by an  अमरीकी  company after the Atari Jaguar stopped sales in 1996 .
The integrated Xbox Live service launched in November 2002 allowed players to play  खेल ऑनलाइन साथ a ब्रॉडबैंड कनेक्शन  .
It first competed with Dreamcast 's  ऑनलाइन सेवा लकिन बाद primarily  competed with PlayStation 2 's online service .
Although these two are free while Xbox Live required a subscription , as well as broadband-only connection which was not completely adopted yet , Xbox Live was a success due to better servers , features  ऐसे as a दोस्त सूची , और पड़ाव शीर्षक जैसे हेलो 2 released in नवम्बर 2004  , which is the best-selling Xbox video game and was by far the most popular online game for years .
Xbox 's successor , the Xbox 360  , थी शुभारम्भ in नवम्बर  2005 .
The Xbox was  discontinued  in late 2005 in Japan where sales were poor .
It was  discontinued in लेट 2006  in Europe and early 2007 in North America .
The last Xbox game in Europe was Tony Hawk 's Project 8 released in November 2006 , and the last game in  उत्तर अमेरिका थी मैडेन एनएफएल 09 released  in August 2008 .
Support for out-of-warranty Xbox consoles was discontinued on March 2 , 2009 , stating that any in-warranty  मरम्मत अभी needed होगा नहीं be undertaken  .
Xbox access to Xbox  सजीव थी रोका  on April 15 , 2010 .
The Gospel According to John ( Greek τὸ κατὰ Ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον ) , commonly referred to as the Gospel of  जॉन or बस जॉन और प्रायः referred  to in New Testament scholarship as the Fourth Gospel , is an account of the public ministry of Jesus .
It begins with the witness and affirmation by John the  बैपटिस्ट और concludes साथ the मौत , दफ़न , क़यामत  , and post-resurrection appearances of Jesus .
This account is fourth of the canonical gospels , after the synoptics Matthew , Mark and  ल्यूक  .
states that the book derives from the testimony  of the ' शिष्य  whom Jesus loved . '
Along with Peter , the unnamed disciple is especially close to Jesus , and early-church tradition identified  उसे as जॉन the apostle  , one of Jesus ' Twelve Apostles .
The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such that commentators treat the four books together , yet , according to most modern  विद्वानों , जॉन थी नहीं the लेखक of  any of these books .
Recent Christian Scripture scholarship more  और अधिक रै लगाई  John within a first-century Jewish context .
Raymond E. Brown did pioneering work to  ट्रेस the विकास  of the tradition from which the gospel arose .
The discourses seem to be concerned with the actual issues of the  church-and-synagogue बहस at the  time when the Gospel was written .
It is notable that , in the gospel , the community still appears to define itself primarily against  judaism , बल्कि than as भाग of a wider ईसाई  church .
Though Christianity started as a  गति भीतर judaism , धीरे  Christians and Jews became bitterly opposed .
John  presents a `` उच्चतर '' christology  than the synoptics , meaning that it describes Jesus as the incarnation of the divine Logos through whom all things were made , as the object of veneration , and more explicitly as God incarnate .
Only in John  करता यीशु  talk at length about himself and his divine role , often shared with the disciples only .
Against  the synoptics , जॉन focuses largely on अलग  miracles ( including resurrecting Lazarus ) , given as signs meant to engender faith .
Synoptic elements such as parables  और exorcisms हैं नहीं मिला  in John .
It  presents a एहसास eschatology  in which salvation is already present for the believer .
The Plagues of Egypt ( ) , also called the Ten Plagues ( ) or the Biblical Plagues , were ten calamities that , according to the biblical Book of  exodus , इसराईल 's परमेश्वर , yahweh , inflicted upon मिश्र to राजी  Pharaoh to release the ill-treated Israelites from slavery .
Pharaoh capitulated after the tenth plague , triggering the Exodus of  the यहूदी लोगों  .
The plagues  यहूद designed to कंट्रास्ट  the power of Yahweh with the impotence of Egypt 's various gods .
Some commentators have associated several  of the plagues साथ निर्णय on  specific gods associated with the Nile , fertility and natural phenomena .
The plagues of Egypt are  भी उल्लेखित in the कुरान  ( 7,133–136 ) .
According to the Book of  exodus , परमेश्वर proclaims  that all the gods of Egypt will be judged through the tenth and final plague:
John Martin 's painting of the  प्लेग of hail और आग  ( 1823 ) .
A role-playing game ( RPG and sometimes roleplaying game ) is a game in which players assume  the भूमिकाएँ of वर्ण in a fictional सेटिंग  .
Players take responsibility  लिये एक्टिंग आउट ये भूमिकाएँ भीतर  a narrative , either through literal acting or through a process of structured decision-making or character development .
Actions taken within many games succeed or fail  according to a औपचारिक  system of rules and guidelines .
There are several forms  of आरपीजी  .
The original form , sometimes called the tabletop RPG , is conducted through discussion , whereas in live action  role-playing खेल ( larp ) खिलाड़ी physically perform उनके  characters ' actions .
In both of these forms , an arranger called a game master ( GM ) usually decides on the  नियम और सेटिंग to be प्रयुक्त  and acts as referee , while each of the other players plays the role of a single character .
Several varieties of RPG also exist in electronic media , such as multi-player  text-based muds और उनके graphics-based successors , massively  multiplayer online role-playing games ( MMORPGs ) .
Role-playing games also include single-player offline role-playing video games in which players control a character or team who  undertake quests , और may शामिल सामर्थ्य कि अग्रिम using सांख्यिकीय  mechanics .
These games often share settings and rules with tabletop  rpgs , लकिन emphasize अक्षर  advancement more than collaborative storytelling .
Despite this  किस्में of  forms , some game forms such as trading card games and wargames that are related to role-playing games may not be included .
Role-playing activity may sometimes be present in such games , but  it is नहीं the प्राथमिक  focus .
The term is also sometimes used to describe roleplay simulation games and  exercises प्रयुक्त in शिक्षण  , training , and academic research .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a  सिविल युद्ध लड़ा इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर ''  ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the extension of  गुलामी into the पश्चिमी territories  .
विदेशी शक्तियां  did not intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the  confederacy collapsed , गुलामी थी abolished  , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by Abraham Lincoln , opposed  expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य ' territories  .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven  cotton-based स्लेव राज्य formed the confederacy  .
Outgoing Democratic President James Buchanan and the  आवक republicans अस्वीकृत  secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared his administration would  नहीं initiate  civil war .
Eight remaining slave states continued to reject  काल्स लिये secession  .
Confederate  शक्तियां जब्त numerous  federal forts within territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a  सुलह , और दोनो  sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none  किया और none पहचाना the नई confederate राज्य  of America .
hostilities began on अप्रैल 12 , 1861 , जब confederate  forces fired upon Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to  provide सैनिकों to retake the फोर्ट ; नतीजतन  , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval  नाकेबंदी कि अबोध the दक्षिणी  economy .
The Eastern  थिएटर थी inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland ( a Union state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading  अंग्रेजों हस्तक्षेप  .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation , which made  समाप्ति गुलामी a युद्ध लक्ष्य .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate river navy  , तब much of उनके पश्चिमी सेना , और the संघ  at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's  confederate incursion  north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to  ulysses S. ग्रान्ट  command of all Union armies in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture  अटलांटा और marched to the समुद्र , destroying confederate  infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to  लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland  Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at  appomattox अदालत हाउस  on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War was one of  the earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the  टेलीग्राफ , steamships , और mass-produced  weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines ,  shipyards , बैंको , परिवहन और खाना आपूर्तियाँ  all foreshadowed World War I .
It remains the deadliest  युद्ध  in American history , resulting in the deaths of an estimated 750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the  मौत टोल at टेन प्रतिशत of सब उत्तरी  males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
The definition of the world 's busiest  विमानक्षेत्र रै महरूम निर्दिष्ट  by the Airports Council International in Geneva , Switzerland .
The ACI defines and  उपायों the following तीन  types of airport traffic:
Passenger  ट्रैफ़िक : कुल यात्री  emplaned and deplaned , passengers in transit counted once
Cargo traffic : loaded  और मोड भाड़ा और  mail in metric tonnes
Traffic  आंदोलनों : अवतरण  and take-offs of aircraft
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that  began on 28  July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its  occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार युद्ध  II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great  शक्तियां , जिससे यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances  : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the  युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और  the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million  सैन्य कर्मियों , सहित 60 लाख europeans , यहूद  mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More  than 9 लाख combatants यहूद मारे , largely  because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various  राजनैतिक परिवर्तन , ऐसे as revolutions  in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the  विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां  of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28  जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो  triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the  पिछला दशकों यहूद  invoked .
Within weeks , the major  शक्तियां यहूद at  war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as  तैयारी लिये the आक्रमण  of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised ,  the  Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle of attrition with a trench  लकीर कि बदला छोटी जबतक 1917  .
on the पूर्वी सामने , the रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध  the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In  नवम्बर the उस्मानी साम्राज्य joined  the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria  गई to युद्ध in  1915 and Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a  subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर  brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the  पश्चिमी सामने , the allies  drove back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to an  armistice on 11  November 1918 .
The war  ended in विजय  for the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the  बैटल fronts , as the भागीदार  tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the  युद्ध , चार प्रमुख  imperial powers—the German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great amount  of territory , जबकि the latter दो यहूद dismantled  entirely .
The map of central Europe  थी redrawn into अनेक  smaller states .
The League of  राष्ट्र थी formed  in the hope of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and  समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be  factors contributing to World War II .
The Deepwater Horizon oil spill ( also referred to as the BP oil spill , the BP oil disaster , the Gulf of Mexico oil spill , and the Macondo blowout ) was an oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico on the BP -operated Macondo Prospect , considered the  largest आकस्मिक समुद्री आयल spill in the इतिहास of the  petroleum industry , estimated to be between 8 % and 31 % larger in volume than the earlier Ixtoc I oil spill .
Following the explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig , which claimed 11  जीवनदान , a sea-floor आयल gusher flowed unabated लिये 87 दिनों , जबतक  it was capped on 15 July 2010 .
The total  निर्वहन is अनुमानित  at .
A massive response ensued  to protect समुद्रतट , वेटलैंड्स और मुहानों  from the spreading oil utilizing skimmer ships , floating booms , controlled burns and of Corexit oil dispersant .
After several failed efforts to contain the  प्रवाह , the खूब थी घोषित  sealed on 19 September 2010 .
Some  रिपोर्ट्स indicate the  well site continues to leak .
Due to the months-long spill , along with adverse effects from the response and cleanup activities , extensive damage to marine and wildlife habitats , fishing and tourism industries , and human health problems have  जारी through 2013.three  years after the spill , tar balls could still be found on the Mississippi coast .
Numerous investigations explored the causes of the  विस्फोट और record-setting  spill .
Notably , the U.S.  सरकारी 's सितंबर 2011 रपट pointed to defective सीमेंट  on the well , faulting mostly BP , but also well operator Transocean and contractor Halliburton .
Earlier in 2011 , a White House commission likewise blamed BP and its partners for a series of  cost-cutting निर्णय और an अपर्याप्त सुरक्षा प्रणाली , लकिन भी concluded कि the  spill resulted from `` systemic '' root causes and `` absent significant reform in both industry practices and government policies , might well recur '' .
In November 2012 , BP and the United States Department of Justice settled federal criminal charges with BP pleading guilty to 11 counts of manslaughter , two  misdemeanors , और a felony गिनती of lying  to Congress .
BP also agreed to four years of government monitoring of its safety  practices और आचार , और  the Environmental Protection Agency announced that BP would be temporarily banned from new contracts with the US government .
BP and the Department of Justice agreed to a record-setting $ 4.525 billion in fines and other payments but further legal proceedings not expected to conclude until 2014 are ongoing to  determine payouts और जुर्माना  under the Clean Water Act and the Natural Resources Damage Assessment .
As of February 2013 , criminal and civil settlements and payments to a trust fund had cost the  कम्पनी $ 42.2  billion .
`` Where the  गलियों  Have No Name '' is a song by rock band U2 .
It is the opening  track इससे उनके 1987 एल्बम the जोशुआ  Tree and was released as the album 's third single in August 1987 .
The song 's hook is a repeating guitar arpeggio using a delay effect , played during the song 's introduction  और again at the समाप्त  .
Lead vocalist Bono wrote the lyrics in response to the notion that it is  संभावित to पहचानो a व्यक्ति 's धर्म और आय आधारित on the गली  on which they lived , particularly in Belfast .
During the band 's difficulties recording the song , producer Brian Eno considered erasing the song 's  टेपों to have उन्हें प्रारंभ  from scratch .
``  जहाँ the गलियों have no नाम  '' was praised by critics and became a commercial success , peaking at number thirteen in the US , number fourteen in Canada , number ten in the Netherlands , and number four in the United Kingdom .
The song has become one of the band 's  सबसे लोकप्रिय  songs and has remained a staple of their live act since the song debuted in 1987 on The Joshua Tree Tour .
The song was notably performed on a Los Angeles rooftop for  the फिल्मांकन of  its music video , which won a Grammy Award for Best Performance Music Video .Recently the song has been used by the NFL 's Baltimore Ravens as their entrance song in Super Bowl XLVII
Thomas Jeffrey `` Tom '' Hanks ( born July 9 , 1956 ) is an  अमरीकी कर्ता , निर्माता , लेखक , और निदेशक  .
Hanks is known for his roles in Apollo 13 , Big , That  बात तुम  Do !
, The Green Mile , You 've Got Mail ,  sleepless in सिएटल , चार्ली विल्सन 's युद्ध , कैच me if तुम can  , Forrest Gump , Cast Away , A League of Their Own , The Da Vinci Code , Angels & Demons , as well as animated films like the Toy Story film series , The Polar Express , and The Simpsons Movie .
He has earned and  महरूम मनोनीत लिये numerous पुरस्कार  during his career , including winning a Golden Globe for Best Actor and an Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia and a Golden Globe , an Academy Award , a Screen Actors Guild Award , and a People 's Choice Award for Best Actor for his role in Forrest Gump , and earning the Stanley Kubrick Britannia Award for Excellence in Film from the BAFTAs in 2004 .
Hanks is also known for his collaboration with film director Steven Spielberg on Saving Private Ryan and the mini-series Band of Brothers , which  शुभारम्भ हैंक्स भी as a कामयाब निदेशक  , producer and writer .
As of 2012 , Hanks ' films have grossed over $ 4.2 billion at the United States box office alone ,  और over $ 8.5 अरब विश्वव्यापी बनाना उसे the उच्चतम  all-time box office star .
The Cape is an  अमरीकी सुपरहीरो  drama series .
It premiered on NBC during the 2010–2011 television season as a mid-season replacement beginning  साथ a two-hour पायलट एपीसोड  on Sunday , January 9 , 2011 at 9 pm Eastern and Pacific Time .
An  encore निभाई on सोमवार , जनवरी  10 , with follow-up episodes continuing on Monday evenings in the 9 pm timeslot beginning on January 17 .
NBC subsequently cut the total number of episodes to be aired from 13  to 10 as a परिणाम of कम दरजा  .
On March 2 , 2011  , एनबीसी घोषित कि the  series finale would only be aired on the network 's website .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ) , officially designated 1P/Halley , is the best-known of the  short-period धूमकेतुओं और is दृश्य इससे धरती प्रत्येक 75–76 सालो  .
Halley is the only short-period comet that is clearly visible to the naked eye from  धरती , और यूँ  the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may  be उज्जवल और  more spectacular , but will appear only once in thousands of years .
Halley 's returns to the inner Solar System have been observed and recorded by  खगोलशास्त्रियों चूंकि  at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by  चाइनीज , babylonian , और मध्यकालीन यूरोपीय  chroniclers , but were not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time .
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond  हैली , बाद जिसको it is अभी नामित  .
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar  प्रणाली in 1986  and will next appear in mid-2061 .
During its 1986 apparition ,  हैली became the पहला धूमकेतु to be observed in विवरण by spacecraft , providing  the first observational data on the structure of a comet nucleus and the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction , particularly Fred  whipple 's `` गंदा स्नोबॉल ''  model , which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile ices – such as water , carbon dioxide and ammonia – and dust .
The missions also provided data which substantially reformed and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is  अभी समझा कि हैली 's सतह is largely  composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that only a small portion of it is icy .
The following is a  सूची of the  most populous incorporated places of the United States of America .
As  पारिभाषित by the  United States Census Bureau , an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations , including city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
A few exceptional Census  designated स्थान ( cdps ) हैं भी शामिल in  the Census Bureau 's listing of incorporated places .
संचित city-counties represent a  distinct type of government that includes the entire population of a county , or county equivalent .
Some  संचित city-counties  , however , include multiple incorporated places .
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance '' ) of such consolidated city-counties  कि हैं नहीं a भाग of another incorporated  place .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual municipalities  भीतर उनके पारिभाषित हद , जिससे करता नहीं शामिल अन्य municipalities  or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
A different ranking is evident when considering U.S.  महानगर क्षेत्रफल populations .
The Mayflower was the  जलयान कि in 1620 transported  102 English Pilgrims , including a core group of Separatists , to New England .
Their story is one of travail and survival in  a हर्ष  New World environment .
a नई जीलैंड आगे ( in श्वेत  ) takes a shot on goal against Cameroon in the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup .
Forwards , also known as strikers , are the players on a team in association  फ़ुटबॉल जो खेल निकटतम to  the opposing team 's goal , and are therefore principally responsible for scoring goals .
This very advanced  स्थिति और इसके सीमित रक्षात्मक  responsibilities mean forwards normally score more goals than other players .
This position requires intelligence , speed , and power , both of  निष्पादन और of विचार ,  to perform the role well .
Modern  टोली formations  usually include one to three forwards ; two is the most common .
Coaches typically field one striker who plays in an advanced position ( the centre forward ) , and another attacking  आगे जो plays somewhat deeper और assists in बनाना लक्ष्य as खूब as  scoring ( the second striker ) .
It should be noted that inside forwards develop from  attacking midfield स्थितियाँ  and hence are naturally midfielders .
Barcelona FC star Lionel Messi is a  ठेठ attacking मिडफील्डर  seen as a forward due to his shot accuracy .
A California domestic partnership is a legal relationship  उपलब्धियाँ to same-sex युगल  , and to certain opposite-sex couples in which at least one party is at least 18 years of age .
It affords the couple `` the same rights , protections , and benefits , and  ... the वही जिम्मेदारियों , दायित्वों , और कर्तव्य अंतर्गत  law ... '' as married spouses .
Enacted in 1999 , the domestic  साझेदारी रजिस्ट्री थी  the first of its kind in the United States created by a legislature without court intervention .
Initially , domestic partnerships enjoyed very few privileges—principally just hospital-visitation  अधिकारों और the सही to be claimed as a  next of kin of the estate of a deceased partner .
The legislature has since expanded the  पैमाना of कैलिफ़ोर्निया घरेलू partnerships to शामिल सब  of the rights and responsibilities common to marriage .
As such , California domestic partnerships are functionally equivalent to civil  संघ offered  in several other states .
Although the program enjoys broad support in California , it  रै महरूम the सोर्स of कुछ  controversy .
Groups opposed to the recognition of same-sex families have  challenged the विस्तार  of domestic partnerships in court .
Conversely , advocates of same-sex marriage contend that anything less than full marriage rights extended to same-sex  साझेदार is analogous to the `` पृथक लकिन बराबर '' जातिगत  laws of the Jim Crow era .
Mark A.  जैक्सन ( born अप्रैल 1 ,  1965 ) is an American basketball coach , and former player who is the current head coach of the Golden State Warriors of the NBA .
A point guard from St. John 's University , he played for the New York  knicks , इंडियाना पेसर्स , लॉस एंजिल्स  Clippers , Denver Nuggets , Toronto Raptors , Utah Jazz and Houston Rockets in the NBA in a career spanning from 1987 to 2004 .
Jackson has also  worked as a कमेंटेटर लिये ईएसपीएन और  ABC alongside his former coach Jeff Van Gundy and play-by-play man Mike Breen .
He was previously an NBA analyst for  the यस संजाल 's नई जर्सी  Nets games .
South Africa has eleven official languages :  अफ्रीकी , अंग्रेज़ी , ndebele , उत्तरी  Sotho , Sotho , Swazi , Tswana , Tsonga , Venda , Xhosa and Zulu .
Fewer than two  प्रतिशत of दक्षिण africans बोलो a  first language other than an official one .
Most South Africans can speak  अधिक than एक भाषा  .
Dutch and  अंग्रेज़ी यहूद the पहला  official languages of South Africa from 1910 to 1925 .
Afrikaans was added as a part  of डच  in 1925 .
Dutch was replaced by Afrikaans when South Africa became a republic in 1961 , and Dutch  थी dropped in 1983 , so between  1983 and 1994 , South Africa had two official languages : English and Afrikaans .
The English version of the South African constitution refers to the languages by the names in those languages : isiZulu , isiXhosa ,  अफ्रीकी , sepedi ( referring to उत्तरी sotho ) , setswana , अंग्रेज़ी  , Sesotho ( referring to Southern Sotho ) , Xitsonga , Siswati , Tshivenda and isiNdebele ( referring to Southern Ndebele ) .
In South Africa , Southern Ndebele is known simply as Ndebele , as  सबसे अध्यक्षों of उत्तरी ndebele सजीव  in Zimbabwe .
The 1993 version of the Constitution referred to Northern Sotho  as sesotho sa leboa , लकिन  the 1996 version referred to the language as Sepedi .
Different government departments and official bodies  उपयोग अलग  terms to denote Northern Sotho .
The main language of government is English even if South Africans often take pride in  using स्वदेशी भाषाएं लिये कोई purpose  .
Afrikaans also features prominently in commerce together with English as the languages with the highest  क्रमांक of धाराप्रवाह अध्यक्षों  are Afrikaans and English .
In terms of linguistic classification , the official languages include two  west-germanic भाषाएं ( अंग्रेज़ी और अफ्रीकी  ) and nine Bantu languages .
Four  of ये हैं nguni  languages ( Zulu , Xhosa , Swati and Ndebele ) and three are Sotho–Tswana languages ( Northern Sotho , Southern Sotho and Tswana ) .
Tsonga is a  tswa–ronga  language .
South African Sign Language is a distinct though incompletely emerged  नेशनल मानक  language which also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects .
Aluminium  नाइट्रेट is a नमक  of aluminium and nitric acid , existing normally as a crystalline hydrate , most commonly as aluminium nitrate nonahydrate , Al ( NO3 ) 3·9H2O .
The New York Jets are a professional football team headquartered in Florham Park , New Jersey  , representing the नई यॉर्क महानगर क्षेत्रफल  .
The team is a member of the Eastern Division of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) in the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल )  .
In a unique  व्यवस्था लिये the लीग , the jets  share MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford , New Jersey with the New York Giants .
The  मताधिकार is legally और  corporately registered as New York Jets , LLC .
The team  was founded in 1959  as the Titans of New York , an original member of the American Football League ; later , the franchise joined the NFL in the AFL–NFL merger .
the टोली  began to play in 1960 at the Polo Grounds .
अंतर्गत नई स्वामित्व , the वर्तमान नाम  was adopted in 1963 and the franchise was relocated to Shea Stadium in 1964 and then to the Meadowlands Sports Complex in 1984 .
The Jets advanced to the playoffs for the first time in 1968 and went on to compete in Super Bowl  iii जहाँ वे पराजित the बाल्टीमोर कोल्टस  , becoming the first AFL team to defeat an NFL club in an AFL-NFL World Championship Game .
Since 1968 , the Jets have appeared in the playoffs thirteen times , and in the  afc चैंपियनशिप खेल चार टाइम्स , सबसे recently  losing to the Pittsburgh Steelers in 2010 .
However , the Jets have never returned to the Super Bowl , making them one of three NFL teams to win their lone Super Bowl appearance , along  साथ the नई ऑरलियन्स संतो और tampa  Bay Buccaneers .
The team 's training facility , Atlantic Health Jets Training Center ,  जिससे खोली  in 2008 , is located in Florham Park .
The team currently holds their  सालाना प्रशिक्षण शिविर सत्र on the कैम्पस of the राज्य विश्वविद्यालयों of नई  York at Cortland in Cortland , New York while holding occasional sessions at the Florham Park complex .
psilocybe  semilanceata
Psilocybin mushrooms , also known as psychedelic mushrooms , are fungi that  contain psychoactive  indole alkaloids .
There are multiple colloquial  शर्तें लिये psilocybin मशरूम , the सबसे आम  being shrooms and magic mushrooms .
Biological genera containing psilocybin mushrooms include Agrocybe , Conocybe , Copelandia , Galerina ,  gerronema , gymnopilus , hypholoma , inocybe , mycena , panaeolus , pluteus  , and Psilocybe .
There are approximately 190 species  of psilocybin मशरूम  and most of them fall in the genus Psilocybe .
psilocybin मशरूम have  likely been used since prehistoric times and may have been depicted in rock art .
Many cultures have used these mushrooms in  धार्मिक संस्कार  .
In modern Western society they are used  recreationally लिये उनके साइकेडेलिक  effects .
Recent studies done at Imperial College London and Johns Hopkins School of Medicine conclude that when used properly , psilocybin acts as an  anti-depressant as  suggested by fMRI brain scans .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent , with the international  boundary साथ कनाडा to the ईस्ट , the आर्कटिक समंदर to the उत्तर , और the प्रशांत  Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is the largest state in the  संयुक्त राज्य by क्षेत्रफल , the 4th तनिक populous  and the least densely populated of the 50 United States .
लगभग  half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil , natural gas , and fishing  उद्योग ; it रै ये संसाधन  in abundance .
Alaska was purchased from Russia on March 30 , 1867 ,  लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $ समायोजित लिये  inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several administrative changes  पहले बनने an व्यवस्थित (  or incorporated ) territory on May 11 , 1912 , and the 49th state of the U.S. on January 3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska  '' ( аляска ) थी already introduced in the रूसी औपनिवेशिक काल , जब it थी  used only for the peninsula and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq , meaning `` the mainland '' or , more literally , `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed '' .
It is also known as Alyeska , the `` great land  '' , an aleut शब्द निकला इससे  the same root .
The 101 French departments are divided into 342  arrondissements , जिससे may  be translated into English as districts .
The capital of an arrondissement/district is called  a subprefecture  .
When an arrondissement contains the prefecture ( capital ) of the department , that prefecture is the  पूंजी of the arrondissement  , acting both as a prefecture and as a subprefecture .
Arrondissements are further divided into  cantons और communes  .
The  योनि ( इससे लैटिन vāgīna , वस्तुतः  `` sheath '' or `` scabbard `` ) is a tubular tract which is a sex organ and has two main functions ; sexual intercourse and childbirth .
In humans , this passage leads from  the खोलने of the भग to the गर्भाशय (  womb ) , but the vaginal tract ends at the cervix .
Unlike men , who  have तभी एक genital  orifice , women have two , the urethra and the vagina .
The vaginal opening is much larger than the  urethral खोलने , और  both openings are protected by the labia .
The inner mould of the vagina has a foldy texture which can create  घर्षण लिये the  penis during intercourse .
दौरान arousal , the  vagina gets moist to facilitate the entrance of the penis .
The Latinate plural `` vaginae '' is rarely  प्रयुक्त in अंग्रेज़ी  .
Colloquially , the word  योनि  is often used to refer to the vulva or to the female genitals in general .
however , by इसके शब्दकोष  and anatomical definitions , vagina refers exclusively to the specific internal structure .
The Cincinnati Reds are a Major League  बेसबॉल टोली  based in Cincinnati , Ohio .
They are members of  the नेशनल लीग  Central Division .
Established in 1881 as an independent club , the  टोली became a चार्टर सदस्य of the अमरीकी  Association in 1882 , and joined the National League in 1890 .
The club traditionally traces its origin  to बेसबॉल  's first openly professional team in 1869 .
The Reds have won five World Series  शीर्षक , एक अमरीकी संघ  pennant , nine National League pennants and ten division titles .
The Reds  निभाई in  the National League West between 1969 and 1993 and have been in the National League Central since 1994 .
Since 2003 , the Reds have played at Great  अमरीकी बॉल पार्क  , built next to their home from 1970 to 2002 , Riverfront Stadium .
Bob  castellini रै स्वामित्व the सिनसिनाटी  Reds since 2006 .
A prank  बदबू  bomb .
A  बदबू बमबारी  is a device designed to create an unpleasant smell .
They range in  प्रभावकारिता इससे सरल pranks  to military grade malodorants or riot control chemical agents .
The Guinness Book of Records lists  दो  smelliest substances .
One is `` US  सरकारी मानक बाथरूम malodor '' ; a मिश्रण of आठ रसायन  with a stench resembling human feces , only much stronger , designed to test the efficacy of deodorizers and air fresheners .
Another one , `` Who me ? `` , is a mixture of  पाँच sulfur-containing  chemicals and smells like rotting food and carcasses .
the कहावत `` a चित्र is लायक a हजार शब्द ''  refers to the notion that a complex idea can be conveyed with just a single still image .
It also aptly characterizes one of the main goals of  कल्पना , namely बनाना it संभावित  to absorb large amounts of data quickly .
The  अभिव्यक्ति `` उपयोग  a picture .
It 's  लायक a हजार शब्द  . '' appears in a 1911 newspaper article quoting newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane discussing journalism and publicity .
1913  समाचारपत्र विज्ञापन
A similar phrase , `` One  dekh is लायक a हजार शब्द  '' , appears in a 1913 newspaper advertisement for the Piqua Auto Supply House of Piqua , Ohio .
An early use of the exact phrase appears in an 1918 newspaper  विज्ञापन  for the San Antonio Light which says : One of the Nation 's Greatest Editors Says : One Picture is Worth a Thousand Words The San Antonio Light 's Pictorial Magazine of the War Exemplifies the truth of the above statement -- judging from the warm reception it has received at the hands of the Sunday Light readers .
It is believed by some that the modern use of the phrase stems from an article by Fred R. Barnard in the advertising trade journal Printers ' Ink , promoting the use of  बिंब in विज्ञापन कि appeared on the पहलू of streetcars  .
The December  8 , 1921 समस्या  carries an ad entitled , `` One Look is Worth A Thousand Words . ''
Another ad by Barnard appears in the March 10 , 1927 issue  साथ the phrase `` एक चित्र लायक  Ten Thousand Words , '' where it is labeled a Chinese proverb ( 一圖勝萬言 ) .
The Home Book of Proverbs , Maxims , and Familiar Phrases quotes Barnard as saying  he पुकारा it `` a चाइनीज कहावत , so कि  people would take it seriously . ''
Soon  बाद , the कहावत  would become popularly attributed to Confucius .
The discussion of `` One Picture Worth Thousand Words '' versus `` One Picture Worth Ten Thousand Words '' Wan yen I hua and 10.000 miles worth  10.000 किताबे is cited in सूचना ग्राफिक्स  where the concept of many in different disciplines and cultures .
A  चित्र is लायक  a thousand words
Despite this modern origin of  the लोकप्रिय phrase  , the sentiment has been expressed by earlier writers .
For example the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev wrote ( in Fathers and Sons in 1862 )  , `` a चित्र shows me at a glance कया it  takes dozens of pages of a book to expound . ''
Computer programmer and author Fred Brooks makes an  विपरीत बयान regarding प्रोग्रामिंग in the mythical man-month :  `` Show me your flowcharts and conceal your tables , and I shall continue to be mystified .
Show me your tables , and I won’t usually need your  flowcharts ; they’ll be स्पष्ट  . ''
The phrase has also  महरूम spoofed by जॉन मैकार्थी , the प्रसिद्ध  computer scientist , to make the opposite point : `` As the Chinese say , 1001 words is worth more than a picture . ''
A season is a subdivision of the year , marked by changes in  मौसम , पारिस्थितिकी , और घंटों of daylight  .
Seasons result from the  वार्षिक क्रान्ति  of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth 's axis relative to the plane of revolution .
In  शीतोष्ण और ध्रुवीय regions , the सीज़न हैं  marked by changes in the intensity of sunlight that reaches the Earth 's surface , variations of which may cause animals to go into hibernation or to migrate , and plants to be dormant .
During May , June and  जुलाई , the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is उजागर  to more direct sunlight because the hemisphere faces the sun .
The same is true of the southern hemisphere  in नवम्बर , दिसम्बर  and January .
It is the tilt of the Earth that causes the Sun to be higher in the sky during the  गर्मियाँ महीने जिससे increases the सौर  flux .
However , due to seasonal lag , June , July and August are the hottest months in the northern hemisphere and December , January  और फ़रवरी हैं  the hottest months in the southern hemisphere .
In temperate and subpolar regions ,  generally चार पंचांग -आधारd सीज़न ( साथ उनके adjectives ) हैं पहचाना  : spring ( vernal ) , summer ( estival ) , autumn ( autumnal ) and winter ( hibernal ) .
However , ecologists mostly  उपयोग a छह ऋतु मॉडल लिये शीतोष्ण जलवायु  regions that includes pre-spring ( prevernal ) and late summer ( serotinal ) as distinct seasons along with the traditional four .
Hot regions have two or three seasons ; the rainy ( or  गीला , or मानसून ) ऋतु और the  dry season , and in some tropical areas , a cool or mild season .
In some parts of the  संसार , खास `` सीज़न '' हैं loosely पारिभाषित आधारित on  important events such as a hurricane season , tornado season or a wildfire season .
The six  ecological  seasons
The four  पंचांग सीज़न , चित्रित  in an ancient Roman mosaic from Tunisia
Dutch  निर्यात  in 2006
At  the समय of  writing the Netherlands is the 17th largest economy of the world .
( see : List of  देशों by  GDP ( nominal ) )
GDP per capita is roughly $ 42,000 which puts it in the top 10  of richest राष्ट्र  in the world ( see : List of countries by GDP ( PPP ) per capita ) .
Between 1996 and  2000 सालाना आर्थिक विकास ( जीडीपी ) averaged  over 4 % , well above the European average .
Growth slowed  considerably  in 2001-05 as part of the global economic slowdown .
2006 and 2007  however दिखाया आर्थिक  growth of 3.4 % and 3.9 % .
The Dutch economy was hit  considerably by the जारी वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट  and the ensuing European debt crisis .
अनेक बैंको गई  bankrupt , and a number of others had to receive governmental aid .
In 2009 the economy declined with 3.5 % ,  followed by दो सालो  of mild growth .
The Dutch economy is  फिलहाल in a मंदी again  , with an economic decline of 0.5 % in 2012 .
महंगाई is at  3.2 % in February 2013 .
Unemployment has been relatively low compared to  अन्य eu  nations for decades but after mid-2012 it has seen a fast increase and in February 2013 it has hit 7.7 % .
The Netherlands managed to maintain its AAA rating at least until March 2013 according to the three major credit rating  एजेंसियों .
Historically , the Dutch introduced and  invented the भण्डार मार्केट  by the merchandise trading through Dutch West India Company .
The Netherlands is a founding member of  the यूरोपीय संघ  , the OECD and the World Trade Organization .
Loyal to the Game is the tenth  स्टुडियो एल्बम और छठे  studio album by Tupac Shakur .
It contains  remixes of previously unreleased  music recorded by Shakur before his death in 1996 .
released in the संयुक्त राज्य on दिसम्बर  14 , 2004 ( December 12 in the United Kingdom ) , Loyal to the Game was produced by Eminem .
The original panel of The View ; Meredith Vieira , Star Jones  , डिब्बी matenopoulos  and Barbara Walters in 1997 .
The View is an  अमरीकी  talk show broadcast on ABC that debuted in 1997 as part of the network 's daytime programming block .
Created by Barbara Walters and Bill Geddie , who both also serve  as the दिखाएँ 's कार्यपालिका निर्माता ,  the program features a panel of women as co-hosts .
Along with Walters , the current panel includes Whoopi Goldberg , who serves  as the मॉडरेटर , आनन्द behar ,  Elisabeth Hasselbeck , and Sherri Shepherd .
International versions of the  कार्यक्रम हैं aired in अनेक  countries .
As of the 2012–13 season  , इसके 16th , the दृश्य is the fourth-longest  running national daytime talk show in history , behind The Phil Donahue Show ( 29 ) , the variously-named Live !
programs ( 25 ) , and The Oprah Winfrey  दिखाएँ ( 25 )  .
Prunus virginiana , commonly called bitter-berry , chokecherry , Virginia bird cherry and western chokecherry ( also black chokecherry for P.  virginiana var . demissa ) , is a प्रजाति of बर्ड चेरी ( prunus subgenus padus ) देशी  to North America ; the natural historic range of P. virginiana includes most of the continent , except for the far north and far south .
Los Angeles International Airport is the primary airport serving the Greater  लॉस एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल , the second-most  populated metropolitan area in the United States .
It is most often referred to by its IATA airport code LAX , with the letters  सुनाया individually  .
LAX is located in  southwestern लॉस एंजिल्स साथ the प्रशांत coast in the पड़ोस of westchester  , from the downtown core and is the primary airport of Los Angeles World Airports ( LAWA ) , an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports .
In 2011 , LAX was the sixth busiest airport in the world after Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport , Beijing Capital International Airport ,  लंदन हीथ्रो विमानक्षेत्र , शिकागो o'hare अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport , and Tokyo Haneda International Airport with 61,862,052 passengers .
The airport holds the claim for `` the world 's busiest origin and destination ( O & D )  विमानक्षेत्र '' in 2011 कि involves  non-connecting passenger traffic .
It is also the only  विमानक्षेत्र to रैंक among the शीर्ष  five U.S. airports for both passenger and cargo traffic .
LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area , but other airports including Bob Hope Airport , John Wayne Airport , Long Beach Airport , LA/Ontario International Airport , and  ताड़ स्रोतों अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र  also serve the region .
LAX is also  the व्यस्ततम विमानक्षेत्र in कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the वेस्ट coast of the संयुक्त  States in terms of flight operations , passenger traffic and air cargo activity , leading it to be referred to as the `` Gateway to the Pacific Rim `` .
Peyton Williams Manning ( born March 24 , 1976 ) is an American  फ़ुटबॉल क्वार्टरबैक लिये the डेनवर broncos of the  National Football League ( NFL ) .
He played for the  इंडियानापोलिस कोल्टस लिये 14  seasons from 1998 to 2011 .
He is the son of  पूर्व एनएफएल क्वार्टरबैक आर्ची मैनिंग और an  elder brother of New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning .
Manning played  कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल लिये the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Tennessee , leading the Volunteers to the 1997 SEC Championship in his senior season .
However , No . 3 Tennessee lost to the No . 2 Nebraska Cornhuskers 42-17 in the Orange Bowl giving Nebraska and Tom  ओसबोर्न उनके 3rd नेशनल चैंपियनशिप  in 4 years .
he थी चुनी by the इंडियानापोलिस  Colts with the first overall pick in the 1998 NFL Draft .
From 1998 to 2010 , he led the  कोल्टस to आठ ( सात afc दक्षिण और एक afc ईस्ट ) प्रभाग  championships , two AFC championships , and to a Super Bowl championship ( Super Bowl XLI ) .
He has won a record four league most valuable player  पुरस्कार , थी the सबसे मूल्यवान खिलाड़ी of सुपर कटोरी xli , रै महरूम नामित to बारह प्रो  Bowls , has twelve 4,000-yard passing seasons , and is the Indianapolis Colts ' all-time leader in passing yards ( 54,828 ) and touchdown passes ( 399 ) .
In 2009 , he was named the best player in the NFL and Fox Sports along  साथ खेल illustrated नामित उसे the एनएफएल खिलाड़ी of  the decade of the 2000s .
In May 2011 , he underwent neck surgery to alleviate neck pain and arm weakness he dealt with during the previous few seasons before signing a five-year , $ 90   million contract extension with the Colts in July 2011 .
Manning had hoped to play in the 2011  ऋतु , लकिन in सितंबर 2011 , he underwent  a much more serious second surgery : a level one cervical fusion procedure .
Manning had never missed an NFL game  in उसके करियर , लकिन थी मजबूर to मिस  the entire 2011 season .
He was released by the Colts on March 7 , 2012 , and after an almost  two-week काल जहाँ he visited साथ और  worked out for several NFL teams , he signed with the Denver Broncos on March 20 , 2012 .
Manning 's pre-snap routine has earned him the nickname , `` The Sheriff '' and is one of the most  recognizable  and parodied in the NFL .
The Indianapolis Colts ' almost exclusive use of the hurry-up offense led  to मैनिंग using an सरणी of इशारों और मौखिक कमांड to कॉल the खेल at the लकीर of  scrimmage rather than in the huddle .
The America Tower of the American General Center , the  मुख्यालय of बेकर  Hughes
Baker  ह्यूजेस is एक of  the world 's largest oilfield services companies .
It operates in over 90 countries , providing  the आयल और गैस उद्योग साथ उत्पाद और सेवाएं लिये खुदाई  , formation evaluation , completion , production and reservoir consulting .
बेकर ह्यूजेस रै इसके मुख्यालय  in the America Tower in the American General Center in Neartown , Houston .
Baker Hughes Incorporated was formed when Baker International and  ह्यूजेस औजार कम्पनी मिलाया  in 1987 .
Baker Hughes operates worldwide with major  कार्यालयों in लिवरपूल , संयुक्त किंगडम ; सिंगापुर ; दुबई ; a शोध और  maintenance facility in Celle , Germany ; Lafayette , Louisiana ; Houston , Texas ; Pescara , Italy ; and Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia .
The company is administered broadly in two hemispheres : the eastern  गोलार्ध साथ पाँच regions ( यूरोपीय  , Africa , the Middle East , Asia Pacific and Russia/Caspian ) and the western hemisphere with four regions ( Canada , US Land , US Gulf , and Latin America ) .
Each of these regions is  subdivided  into markets .
The United  राज्य one- cent सिक्का , commonly ज्ञात  as a penny , is a unit of currency equaling one one-hundredth of a United States dollar .
The cent 's  प्रतीक is ¢ .
Its obverse has featured the profile of President  अब्राहम lincoln चूंकि  1909 , the centennial of his birth .
From 1959 ( the sesquicentennial of Lincoln  's जनम ) to 2008 , the  reverse featured the Lincoln Memorial .
Four different reverse designs in 2009 honored Lincoln 's 200th birthday and a new , permanent reverse  – the  Union Shield – was introduced in 2010 .
The coin is 0.75 inches ( 19.05 mm  )  in diameter and 0.061 inches ( 1.55 mm ) in thickness .
The U.S. Mint 's official name for a penny is `` '' and the  u.S. राजकोष 's आधिकारिक  name is `` one cent piece '' .
The colloquial term penny derives from the British coin of the same name , the pre-decimal  संस्करण of जिससे  had a similar value .
In American English , pennies is the plural form , other plural forms pence and  पेशाब ( मानक उपयोग in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी  ) are not used .
As of 2012 , it costs  the u.S. मिंट 2.00 सेंट  to make a cent because of the cost of materials and production .
This figure includes the  mint’s फिक्स्ड  components for distribution and fabrication , estimated at $ 13 million in FY 2011 .
It also includes Mint  ओवरहेड आबंटित to the पैनी , जिससे  was $ 17.7 million for 2011 .
Fixed costs and overhead would have to be  अवशोषित by अन्य  circulating coins without the penny .
The loss in profitability due to producing the one cent coin in the United  राज्य लिये the साल of 2012 थी $ 58,000,000  .
This was a slight  घटी  from 2011 , the year before , which had a production loss of $ 60,200,000 .
or more specifically , are  शोभायमान किस्में  of domesticated common carp ( Cyprinus carpio ) that are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens .
Koi varieties  हैं विशिष्ट by coloration  , patterning , and scalation .
Some of  the प्रमुख रंगों  are white , black , red , yellow , blue , and cream .
The most  लोकप्रिय  category of koi is the Gosanke , which is made up of the Kohaku , Taisho Sanshoku , and Showa Sanshoku varieties .
The American Federation of Government Employees ( AFGE ) is an American labor union representing over 650,000 employees of the federal government , about 5,000  कर्मचारी of the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , और a few सौ निजी सेक्टर कर्मचारी  , mostly in and around federal facilities .
AFGE is the largest  संघ लिये civilian , non- डाक संघीय कर्मचारी और the largest संघ  for District of Columbia employees who report directly to the mayor ( i.e. , outside of D.C. public schools ) .
It is  संबद्ध साथ the  AFL-CIO .
A  लेट सिल्यूरियन sporangium  .
ग्रीन  : A spore tetrad .
Blue :  a spore bearing a  trilete mark – the -shaped scar .
the बीजाणुओं  are about 30-35 μm across
The evolution of plants has resulted in increasing levels of complexity , from the earliest algal mats ,  through bryophytes  , lycopods , ferns to the complex gymnosperms and angiosperms of today .
While many of the groups which appeared earlier continue to thrive ,  विशेषकर in the environments in जिससे वे विकसित , लिये a  time each new grade of organisation became more `` successful '' than its predecessors .
In the  ordovician काल , around , the  first land plants appeared .
These began to diversify in the late Silurian Period , around ,  और the परिणाम of उनके diversification हैं प्रदर्शित in उल्लेखनीय  detail in an early Devonian fossil assemblage from the Rhynie chert .
This chert  preserved जल्दी पौधे in सेल्यूलर  detail , petrified in volcanic springs .
By the middle of the Devonian Period , most of the features recognised in plants today are present , including roots , leaves and secondary  लकडी ; और , by लेट devonian टाइम्स , बीज था विकसित  .
Late Devonian plants had thereby reached a degree of  परिष्कार कि  allowed them to form forests of tall trees .
Evolutionary innovation  जारी into the carboniferous  period and is still ongoing today .
Most plant groups  यहूद अपेक्षाकृत unscathed by the permo-triassic  extinction event , although the structures of communities changed .
इस may have नियत the झाँकी लिये the रूप of  the flowering plants in the Triassic ( ~ ) , and their later diversification in the Cretaceous and Paleogene .
The latest major group of plants  to evolve  were the grasses , which became important in the mid-Paleogene , from around .
The grasses , as well as many other groups , evolved new mechanisms of  चयापचय to जीवित the कम और गरम , शुष्क  conditions of the tropics over the last .
The winning Super Bowl team receives the Vince  लोम्बार्डी  Trophy .
The Super Bowl is an annual American football game that determines the  चैंपियन of the नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल  League ( NFL ) .
The contest is held in an American city that is chosen three to four years beforehand ,  प्रायः in warm-weather or domed साइट  .
Since 1971 , the winner of the American Football Conference ( AFC ) Championship Game has faced the winner of the National  फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( nfc ) चैंपियनशिप खेल in the  culmination of the NFL playoffs .
Before the 1970 merger between the American Football League ( AFL ) and the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल  ) , the two leagues met in four such contests .
The first two were  ज्ञात as the `` afl-nfl संसार  Championship Game . ''
Super Bowl III in 1969 was the first such game that carried  the `` सुपर कटोरी '' moniker , the names `` सुपर कटोरी  I `` and `` Super Bowl II `` were retroactively applied to the first two games .
The NFC  /nfL  leads in Super Bowl wins with 25 , while the AFC /AFL has won 22 .
Eighteen different  franchises , सहित  teams that relocated to another city , have won the Super Bowl .
The  पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स have जीती the  most Super Bowls with six championships ( record 6–2 ) , while both the Dallas Cowboys and San Francisco 49ers have five wins each ( Cowboys 5–3 ; 49ers 5–1 ) .
Dallas and Pittsburgh have the most Super Bowl appearances with eight , while  the भैंस बिल्स have the सबसे लगातार दिखावे साथ चार  losses in a row from 1990 to 1993 .
The New England Patriots , Denver Broncos and Minnesota  वाइकिंग्स have भी  lost a record four Super Bowls .
Buffalo and Minnesota are both 0–4 ,  डेनवर is 2–4 और नई  England is 3–4 .
The record for consecutive wins is two and is shared by seven  franchises : the 1966-67 ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स , the 1972-73 मियामी डॉल्फिन , the 1974-75 और 1978-79 पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स ( the तभी टोली to accomplish इस feat  twice ) , the 1988-89 San Francisco 49ers , the 1992-93 Dallas Cowboys , the 1997-98 Denver Broncos , and the 2003-04 New England Patriots .
The only team with multiple  सुपर कटोरी दिखावे और no  losses is the Baltimore Ravens , who in winning Super Bowl XLVII unseated and replaced the 49ers in that position .
Four current NFL teams have never appeared in a Super Bowl , including franchise relocations and renaming : the Cleveland Browns ,  डेट्रॉयट शेर , jacksonville jaguars , और  Houston Texans , though both the Browns and Lions had won NFL Championship games prior to the creation of the Super Bowl .
Martin County is a county located in the U.S. state of  टेक्सास .
As  of the 2010  census , its population was 4,799 .
Its seat  is stanton  .
The county is named for Wylie  मार्टिन , an  early settler .
Martin County is one  of 30 निषेध , or entirely शुष्क  , counties in the state of Texas .
Alkaline  phosphatase ( alp , alkp ) (  ) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups from many types of molecules , including nucleotides , proteins , and alkaloids .
The  प्रक्रम of निकालना the फास्फेट समूह  is called dephosphorylation .
As the name suggests , alkaline  phosphatases हैं सबसे प्रभावी  in an alkaline environment .
It is sometimes used  synonymously as मौलिक  phosphatase .
Triticale ( × Triticosecale ) , ( ) is a hybrid of wheat  (  Triticum ) and rye ( Secale ) first bred in laboratories during the late 19th century .
The grain was  originally करवाया  in Scotland and Sweden .
commercially उपलब्धियाँ triticale is लगभग  always a second generation hybrid , i.e. , a cross between two kinds of primary ( first cross ) triticales .
As a rule , triticale combines the yield potential and grain quality of wheat with the disease and  पर्यावरणीय सहिष्णुता (  including soil conditions ) of rye .
Only recently has it  महरूम विकसित into  a commercially viable crop .
depending on  the cultivar , triticale can more or less resemble either of its parents .
It is grown mostly for forage or fodder , although  कुछ triticale-based  foods can be purchased at health food stores or are to be found in some breakfast cereals .
When crossing wheat  और rye , गेहूं is प्रयुक्त as the मादा जनक और  rye as the male parent ( pollen donor ) .
The resulting hybrid is sterile , and must be treated with colchicine to induce  polyploidy और यूँ the क्षमता  to reproduce itself .
The primary producers of  triticale हैं कैंडल , जर्मनी  , France , Belarus and Australia .
In 2009 , according to the Food and  कृषि संगठन ( fao ) ,  15.0 million tons were harvested in 29 countries across the world .
The triticale hybrids are all amphidiploid , which means the plant is diploid for two  genomes निकला इससे अलग प्रजाति  .
In other words , triticale is an  allotetraploid  .
In earlier years , most  कार्य थी किया on octoploid  triticale .
Different ploidy levels have been created  और  evaluated over time .
The tetraploids showed little promise , but hexaploid triticale was  कामयाब पर्याप्त to ढूँढें वाणिज्यिक अनुप्रयोग  .
The CIMMYT triticale improvement program wanted to improve food production  और पोषण  in developing countries .
Triticale has potential in the production of bread and other  खाना उत्पाद , ऐसे as कुकीज़ , पास्ता , पिज़्ज़ा आटा  and breakfast cereals .
The protein content is higher than that of wheat , although the  glutenin भिन्न is  less .
The grain has also been  stated to have उच्चतर  levels of lysine than wheat .
Assuming increased acceptance , the milling industry will have to adapt to triticale , as  the मिलिंग तकनीकों employed लिये गेहूं हैं मुलम्मा to triticale  .
Sell et al . found triticale could be used as a feed grain , and  बाद शोध मिला इसके मंड  was particularly readily digested .
As a feed  अनाज , triticale is  already well established and of high economic importance .
It has  प्राप्त ध्यान as a संभावित उर्जा  crop , and research is currently being conducted on the use of the crop 's biomass in bioethanol production .
`` Puff , the  जादू ड्रैगन  '' is a song written by Leonard Lipton and Peter Yarrow , and made popular by Yarrow 's group Peter , Paul and Mary in a 1963 recording .
The song achieved  ग्रेट लोकप्रियता  .
A college football national championship in the highest level of collegiate play in the United States , currently the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) Division I  फ़ुटबॉल कटोरी  Subdivision ( FBS ) , is a designation awarded annually by various third-party organizations to their selection ( s ) of the best college football team ( s ) .
Division I FBS ( formerly Division I-A ) football is the only  ncaa खेल in जिससे a वार्षिक चैंपियन  is not determined by an NCAA sanctioned championship event .
Because the championship team is not determined by a NCAA championship or  टूर्नामेंट इवेंट , it is sometimes unofficially  referred to as a `` mythical national championship `` .
Since the NCAA , the sport 's governing body , does not determine or declare a national champion in this field ,  determination of ऐसे  has often engendered controversy .
A championship team is independently declared by  विभिन्न individuals और संगठन  , often referred to as `` selectors '' .
These choices are sometimes at  हालात साथ प्रत्येक अन्य  .
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed an annual championship team , it has documented the  चुनाव  of several selectors in the official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records .
In  जोड , विभिन्न तीसरा पार्टी विश्लेषकों have  independently published their own lists of what they have determined to be the most legitimate selections for each season .
These are also often at odds with  प्रत्येक अन्य as खूब as व्यक्तिगत स्कूल 's दावा on नेशनल championships  , which , for any particular season , may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere .
Currently , two widely recognized national champions selectors are the Associated Press , which conducts a poll of football sportswriters , and the USA  आज कोच ' पोल , a पोल of अमरीकी  Football Coaches Association active coaches that is contractually obligated to name the winner of the Bowl Championship Series championship game as its national champion .
The Milwaukee Brewers are a professional baseball team  आधारित in मिल्वौकी , विस्कॉन्सिन  .
The team is a member of the Central Division of Major League  बेसबॉल  's National League and plays its home games at Miller Park .
The team is so named because of the city  's संघ साथ the  brewing industry .
The Washington Nationals are a professional  बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in  Washington , D.C .
The Nationals are a  सदस्य of the ईस्ट प्रभाग of the  National League of Major League Baseball ( MLB ) .
The team 's home  ballpark is नागरिकों पार्क ,  located on South Capitol Street in Southeast D.C. , near the Anacostia River .
The park opened in 2008 , replacing RFK  स्टेडियम , the  team 's home from 2005 to 2007 .
The Nationals ' name derives from the former Washington baseball team that had the same name ( used  interchangeably साथ सीनेटरों )  .
Their nickname is `` the Nats '' —a shortened version  कि थी भी प्रयुक्त by the बूढ़ा  D.C. teams .
An expansion  मताधिकार , the क्लबों थी संस्थापित  in as the Montreal Expos , the first major league team in Canada .
They were based in Montreal ,  क्यूबेक , और निभाई उनके  home games at Jarry Park Stadium and later in Olympic Stadium .
In , the Expos won a division championship , won their  first-ever playoff श्रेणी by defeating the फिलाडेल्फिया फ़िलीज़ , 3–2 , और उन्नत to the नेशनल लीग  Championship Series , where they would go on to lose to the Los Angeles Dodgers , 3–2 , in their only postseason appearance during the strike-shortened season .
The Expos had their highest winning percentage in the strike-shortened season of  , जब the टोली था the बेहतरीन रिकार्ड in  baseball .
The team 's subsequent shedding of players  caused प्रशंसक ब्याज to बूँद बंद  .
After the 2001 season , MLB considered revoking the team 's franchise , along with either the Minnesota Twins or the Tampa Bay   Devil Rays .
After being purchased by MLB in 2002 , the team was moved before the season to Washington and renamed the Nationals , the first relocation since the second Washington  सीनेटरों स्थानांतरित to आर्लिंगटन , टेक्सास , और became the टेक्सास रेंजरों in  .
The Nationals are one of two MLB franchises , and the only one in the National League , that has never  निभाई in a संसार श्रेणी ( the  Seattle Mariners are the other ) .
A  निर्भर शुल्क ( in the संयुक्त राज्य  ) or conditional fee ( in England and Wales ) is any fee for services provided where the fee is payable only if there is a favourable result .
In  the विधि , it is  defined as a `` fee charged for a lawyer 's services only if the lawsuit is successful or is favorably settled out of court ... .
निर्भर शुल्क हैं प्रायः  calculated as a percentage of the client 's net recovery . ''
In  the अंग्रेज़ी विधिक  system , it is generally referred to as no win no fee .
A  सशर्त शुल्क  agreement between a law firm and a client .
The usual form of this  अनुबंध is कि the solicitor होगा लो  a law case on the understanding that if lost , no payment is made .
However , if the case is won , the lawyer will be  हकदार to the सामान्य शुल्क आधारित on hourly बिलिंग  , plus a success fee .
The success fee in England must be as a percentage no greater than 100 %  of the सामान्य शुल्क  .
This contrasts with  the आकस्मिकता  fee in the US , which gives the successful attorney a percentage of the damages awarded in favor of his client .
This makes it easier for the poor to pursue their civil rights since otherwise , to  मुकदमा किसी लिये a अपकृत्य , एक जरूर पहला be धनवान पर्याप्त to pursue ऐसे वाद  in the first place .
However , because of the high risk , few attorneys will take cases  on a आकस्मिकता आधार जबतक वे  feel the case has good merit .
According to a 2004 book by law professor Herbert Kritzer , contingent fees were allowed as of that year in the following countries :  ऑस्ट्रेलिया , ब्राज़ील  , Canada , the Dominican Republic , France , Greece , Ireland , Japan , New Zealand , the United Kingdom and the United States .
They are also allowed in  निजी चोट  actions in Lithuania .
recently , वे  have been allowed in Belgium as well .
A Convocation ( Latin 'calling together ' , translating the Greek ecclesia )  is a समूह of लोगों  formally assembled for a special purpose .
Sons of Anarchy is a television drama series created by Kurt Sutter about the lives of a close-knit outlaw motorcycle club operating in Charming , a fictional town in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's  Central Valley .
The show centers on protagonist Jackson `` Jax '' Teller ( Charlie  hunnam ) , the then-vice अध्यक्ष of the क्लबों , जो begins questioning  the club and himself .
Sons of Anarchy premiered on  सितंबर 3 , 2008 , on केबल  network FX .
The third season of the series attracted an average of 4.9 million viewers per  सप्ताह , बनाना it fx 's उच्चतम रेटेड श्रेणी कभी , surpassing fx  's other hits The Shield , Nip/Tuck , and Rescue Me .
On February 3 , 2012 , Sons of Anarchy was renewed for two additional seasons , a  पांचवां और a छठे  .
Those involved in the production of the series imply that a seventh and final season is creator  कर्ट sutter  's plan .
The Grímsvötn sub-glacial lakes ( ; vötn = `` waters '' , singular : )  और the ज्वालामुखी  of the same name are in South-East Iceland .
They are in the highlands of Iceland at the  northwestern  side of the Vatnajökull ice-cap .
the झीलों  are at , at an elevation of .
Beneath the lakes is  the मैग्मा कक्ष  of the Grímsvötn volcano .
Grímsvötn is a basaltic volcano which has the highest  फटना आवृत्ति of सब the ज्वालामुखी in आइसलैंड और रै  a southwest-northeast-trending fissure system .
The massive climate-impacting Laki fissure eruption of  1783–1784 थी a भाग of the वही फिशर प्रणाली  .
Grímsvötn was  erupting at the वही  time as Laki during 1783 , but continued to erupt until 1785 .
Because most of the volcano lies underneath  vatnajökull , सबसे of इसके eruptions have महरूम subglacial  and the interaction of magma and meltwater from the ice causes phreatomagmatic explosive activity .
On 21 May 2011 at 19:25 UTC , an eruption began , with high plumes accompanied by multiple earthquakes , resulting in cancellation of 900 flights in  आइसलैंड , और in the संयुक्त किंगडम ,  Greenland , Germany , Ireland and Norway on 22–25 May .
Until 25 May the eruption scale had  महरूम larger than कि of the 2010  eruption of Eyjafjallajökull .
The eruption  रोका at 02:40 utc on 25 may 2011 , हालांकि वहीँ थी कुछ विस्फोटक  activity from the tephra vents affecting only the area around the crater .
Vetting is the process of performing  a पृष्ठभूमि जाँच on किसी पहले offering  them employment , conferring an award , etc .
A prospective person or project may be  vetted पहले बनाना  a hiring decision .
In  जोड , in प्रज्ञा महफ़िल  , assets are vetted to determine their usefulness .
Former headquarters and current corporate  कार्यालयों
Caesars Entertainment Corporation ( formerly Harrah 's  entertainment इससे 1995 to 2010 ) is an अमरीकी  public gaming corporation that owns and operates over 50 casinos , hotels , and seven golf courses under several brands .
The company , based in Paradise , Nevada , is  the largest गेमिंग  company in the world , with annual revenues of $ 8.9 billion ( 2010 ) .
Caesars is a public company , with a joint venture of Apollo Global Management and Texas Pacific Group ownig  a विशाल portion of the स्टेक और blackstone समूह भी पकड़कर  a significant stake .
The name change from ``  harrah 's entertainment inc. '' to `` caesars  Entertainment Corporation '' was made official on November 23 , 2010 .
Harrah 's remains a key  ब्रांड in the कम्पनी  .
On November 5 , 2010 , Harrah 's announced an initial public offering of 31,250,000 shares but retracted this  offering on  November 19 .
A Permanent Resident in Canada is a person who is not a Canadian citizen but who has been granted permission to live and work in Canada  बगैर कोई समय सीमा on उसके or उसके रहो  .
A permanent resident  जरूर सजीव in कनाडा लिये  two years out of every five or risk losing that status .
A Permanent Resident holds many of the same rights and  जिम्मेदारियों as a कनाडाई नागरिक  , among others the right to work for any enterprise as well as for the federal or provincial government ( under restriction of access rights to certain regulated professions ) .
The main differences are that  निवासियों can नहीं  :
vote in elections  in कनाडा  ;
run for  निर्वाचित दफ्तर  ;
hold Canadian  passports  ;
In addition , they may be allowed to join Canada 's armed forces if the national interest  होता नहीं be prejudiced  .
Permanent  निवासियों भी रिस्क प्रत्यर्पण लिये गंभीर  crimes committed while resident in Canada .
Permanent residents may apply for  कनाडाई नागरिकता बाद तीन सालो  in Canada ; however this is not mandatory .
Erica  केन is  a fictional character from the American ABC Daytime soap opera All My Children .
The character was portrayed by actress Susan Lucci from her debut on January 16 , 1970 until the  पिछला ब्रॉडकास्ट टेलीविज़न एपीसोड aired  on September 23 , 2011 .
On February 11 ,  2013 , it थी घोषित  that Lucci will guest-star on the Prospect Park 's continuation of All My Children .
In the U.S. , Erica is considered to be the most popular  अक्षर in साबुन ओपेरा इतिहास  .
Regarding the North-American market , TV Guide calls her `` unequivocally the most famous soap opera character in the history of daytime TV '' , and included her in their 2013 list of  the 60 nastiest खलनायक  of All Time .
A graph of the US CPI from 1913 to 2006 ( in blue )  , और इसके प्रतिशत सालाना  change ( in red )
A consumer price index ( CPI ) measures changes in the price level of a market basket of  उपभोक्ता goods और सेवाएं  purchased by households .
The CPI in the United States is defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics as `` a  माप of the औसत बदलें over समय  in the prices paid by urban consumers for a market basket of consumer goods and services . ''
The CPI is a statistical estimate constructed using the  कीमतें of a नमूना of प्रतिनिधि  items whose prices are collected periodically .
Sub-indexes and sub-sub-indexes are computed for different  श्रेणी और sub-categories of goods और सेवाएं , होने संयुक्त to उपज the overall अनुक्रमणिका  with weights reflecting their shares in the total of the consumer expenditures covered by the index .
It is one of several  दाम indices गणना  by most national statistical agencies .
The annual percentage change in a CPI  is प्रयुक्त as a माप  of inflation .
A CPI can be used to index ( i.e. , adjust for the effect of inflation ) the real value of wages ,  salaries , pensions , लिये regulating कीमतें और लिये deflating  monetary magnitudes to show changes in real values .
In most countries , the CPI is , along with the population census and the USA National Income and Product Accounts , one of the most  closely देखी नेशनल  economic statistics .
Knocking on wood , or to touch wood ,  refers to the apotropaic परंपरा in पश्चिमी लोकगीत of वस्तुतः touching/knocking  on wood , or merely stating that you are doing or intend same , in order to avoid `` tempting fate `` after making a favourable observation , a boast , or declaration concerning one 's own death .
Rocker  भुजा
Generally referred to within the context of the internal combustion engine of automotive , marine , motorcycle and reciprocating aviation engines , the  रॉकर भुजा is an oscillating लीवर कि conveys रेडियल गति इससे  the cam lobe into linear movement at the poppet valve to open it .
One end is raised and  lowered by a घूर्णन पालि of the camshaft  ( either directly or via a tappet ( lifter ) and pushrod ) while the other end acts on the valve stem .
जब the camshaft पालि उठाता the बाहर  of the arm , the inside presses down on the valve stem , opening the valve .
When the outside  of the भुजा is permitted to वापसी due to the camshafts  rotation , the inside rises , allowing the valve spring to close the valve .
The drive cam is driven by  the camshaft .
This pushes the rocker arm  up और bas  about the trunnion pin or rocker shaft .
Friction may be reduced at  the पाइंट of सम्पर्क साथ  the valve stem by a roller cam follower .
A similar arrangement transfers the motion via another roller cam  अनुसरणकर्ता to a दूसरी रॉकर  arm .
This rotates about the rocker shaft , and  हस्तांतरण the गति via a  tappet to the poppet valve .
In this case this opens the intake valve  to the बेलन सिर  .
The effective leverage of the arm ( and thus the force it can exert on the valve stem ) is determined by the rocker arm  अनुपात , the अनुपात of the अलहदा इससे the रॉकर भुजा 's बीच of रोटेशन to the  tip divided by the distance from the center of rotation to the point acted on by the camshaft or pushrod .
Current  ऑटोमोटिव डिज़ाइन favors  rocker arm ratios of about 1.5:1 to 1.8:1 .
However , in the past smaller positive ratios ( the valve lift is  वृहद than the कैम लिफ्ट ) और भी ऋणात्मक  ratios ( valve lift smaller than the cam lift ) have been used .
अनेक pre-ww2 इंजन  use 1:1 ( neutral ) ratios .
For car engines the rocker arms are generally steel stampings , providing a reasonable  संतुलन of शक्ति  , weight and economical cost .
Because the rocker arms are , in part , reciprocating weight , excessive mass especially at the lever  ends हद the इंजन 's क्षमता to पहुँचें  high operating speeds .
`` The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia '' is a Southern Gothic  सोंग लिखा by songwriter  Bobby Russell and performed in 1972 by his then-wife Vicki Lawrence .
Reba McEntire  बाद  covered it in 1991 .
Recorded in late October 1972 in United/Western Studios on Sunset in Hollywood and  released कम than दो सप्ताह बाद in नवम्बर 1972  , the song centers around the older brother of the narrator , falsely convicted of and executed for a murder , which the narrator herself has committed .
In postal mail , a return  पता is an सुस्पष्ट  inclusion of the address of the person sending the message .
It provides the recipient ( and sometimes authorized intermediaries ) with a means to determine how to respond to the  प्रेषक of the संदेश  if needed .
The return  पता need नहीं शामिल a प्रेषक  's name , but should include address or P.O . box details in the same way as the delivery address should .
In some  देशों , the वापसी पता is conventionally स्तिथ  in the upper left hand corner of the envelope , card , or label .
In the United Kingdom , the return address is  प्रायः लगाई on the रिवर्स of the लिफाफा  , near the top .
Businesses often use envelopes  preprinted साथ a वापसी पता  .
Many individuals have sheets of adhesive labels preprinted  साथ उनके घर पता to affix  to their correspondence .
Charities sometimes  शामिल ऐसे चादरें in  mailshots .
Rolls of Return Address  लेबल्स can be खरीदा इससे कंपनियाँ कि बेचें personalized लेबल्स  to provide individuals an easy way to peel and stick return address labels to their envelopes .
The return address is not required on  डाक  mail .
However , lack of a return address prevents the postal service from being able to return the item if it proves undeliverable ; such as  इससे क्षति , postage due , or  invalid destination .
Such  मेल  may thus become dead letter mail .
Should the return address be of a different state or country ,  the मेल may be routed through  that location for ease of return .
A nerve guidance conduit ( also referred to as an artificial nerve conduit or artificial nerve graft , as opposed to an autograft ) is an artificial means of guiding axonal regrowth to facilitate nerve  regeneration और is एक of अनेक नैदानिक उपचार लिये तंत्रिका चोटों  .
When direct suturing of the two stumps of a  severed तंत्रिका can नहीं be संपन्नता  without tension , the standard clinical treatment for peripheral nerve injuries is autologous nerve grafting .
Due to the limited availability of donor tissue and functional recovery  in autologous तंत्रिका कलम , neural ऊतक अभियान्त्रिकी  research has focused on the development of bioartificial nerve guidance conduits as an alternative treatment , especially for large defects .
Similar techniques are also being explored for nerve repair in the spinal cord but nerve regeneration in the central nervous system  मुद्राएँ a वृहद चुनौती क्युकी इसके axons do नहीं regenerate appreciably in उनके देशी पर्यावरण  .
The creation of artificial conduits is also known as entubulation because the  तंत्रिका ends और intervening गैप  are enclosed within a tube composed of biological or synthetic materials .
Whether the conduit is in the form of a biologic tube , synthetic tube or tissue-engineered conduit , it should  सुकर neurotropic और neurotrophic संचार between the proximal और distal  ends of the nerve gap , block external inhibitory factors , and provide a physical guidance for axonal regrowth .
The most basic objective of a nerve guidance conduit is to combine physical ,  रासायनिक , और biological cues अंतर्गत शर्तें कि होगा  foster tissue formation .
Materials  कि have महरूम  used to make biologic tubes include blood vessels and skeletal muscles , while nonabsorbable and bioabsorbable synthetic tubes have been made from silicone and polyglycolide respectively .
Tissue-engineered nerve guidance conduits are a combination of many elements : scaffold structure  , scaffold सामग्री , सेल्यूलर therapies  , neurotrophic factors and biomimetic materials .
The choice of which  शारीरिक , रासायनिक और biological cues to उपयोग  is based on the properties of the nerve environment , which is critical in creating the most desirable environment for axon regeneration .
The factors that control  सामग्री चयन शामिल biocompatibility , biodegradability , mechanical  integrity , controllability during nerve growth , implantation and sterilization .
Hardcore Pawn is an American reality television series  उत्पादित by rdf यूएसए ( बाद zodiak यूएसए ) और रिचर्ड dominick प्रोडक्शन्स  for truTV about the day-to-day operations of American Jewelry and Loan , a family-owned pawn shop located at 20450 Greenfield Road , between 8 Mile Road and the John C. Lodge Freeway in Detroit , Michigan .
The series premiered on August 16 , 2010 , delivering two million viewers , setting  a रिकार्ड as trutv 's most-watched श्रेणी प्रीमियर  ever .
amoxicillin  BP
Amoxicillin ( INN ) , formerly amoxycillin ( BAN ) , and abbreviated amox , is a moderate-spectrum , bacteriolytic , β-lactam antibiotic  प्रयुक्त to दावत बैक्टीरियल infections caused by susceptible  microorganisms .
It is usually the drug of choice within the class because it  is बेहतर अवशोषित  , following oral administration , than other β-lactam antibiotics .
Amoxicillin is one  of the  most common antibiotics prescribed for children .
The drug  became उपलब्धियाँ  in 1972 .
Amoxicillin is susceptible to  degradation by β-lactamase -producing जीवाणु , जिससे  are resistant to a broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics , such as penicillin .
For this reason ,  it is प्रायः संयुक्त साथ clavulanic  acid , a β-lactamase inhibitor .
This increases  प्रभावकारिता by reducing  its susceptibility to β-lactamase resistance .
Lyndon Baines  जॉनसन ( अगस्त 27 , 1908  – January 22 , 1973 ) , often referred to as LBJ , was the 36th President of the United States ( 1963–1969 ) , a position he assumed after his service as the 37th Vice President of the United States ( 1961–1963 ) .
He is one of only four people who  परोसा in सब चार निर्वाचित संघीय कार्यालयों of the संयुक्त राज्य  : Representative , Senator , Vice President , and President .
Johnson , a Democrat from Texas , served as a United States Representative from 1937–1949 and as a Senator from 1949–1961 , including six years as United States  सीनेट बहुमत नेता , दो as सीनेट अल्पसंख्यक नेता और दो as सीनेट बहुमत  Whip .
After  campaigning unsuccessfully लिये the लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन in 1960 , जॉनसन  was asked by John F. Kennedy to be his running mate for the 1960 presidential election .
Johnson succeeded to the presidency  following the हत्या of जॉन F. कैनेडी on नवम्बर 22 , 1963 , समाप्त कैनेडी 's पद और  was elected President in his own right , winning by a large margin over Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election .
Johnson was greatly supported by the Democratic Party and as President , he was responsible for designing the `` Great Society ``  विधान कि शामिल कानून कि upheld सिविल अधिकारों , पब्लिक प्रसारण  , Medicare , Medicaid , environmental protection , aid to education , and his `` War on Poverty . ''
Johnson was renowned for his domineering personality and the ``  जॉनसन उपचार  , '' his coercion of powerful politicians in order to advance legislation .
Meanwhile , Johnson escalated American involvement in the Vietnam War , from 16,000 American advisors/soldiers in 1963 to  550,000 कॉम्बैट सैनिकों in जल्दी 1968 , as अमरीकी  casualties soared and the peace process bogged down .
The involvement stimulated a  विशाल एंग्री antiwar गति  based especially on university campuses in the U.S. and abroad .
Summer riots broke out in most major cities after 1965 , and crime rates soared , as his opponents  उठाया  demands for `` law and order '' policies .
The Democratic  पार्टी विभाजित in अनेक feuding गिरोहों , और बाद  Johnson did poorly in the 1968 New Hampshire primary , he ended his bid for reelection .
Republican Richard Nixon was elected to  सफल उसे  .
इतिहासकारों  argue that Johnson 's presidency marked the peak of modern liberalism in the United States after the New Deal era .
Johnson is ranked favorably by some historians because of his  घरेलू नीतियों  .
The Big Bang  सिद्धान्त डाल at कॉमिक कॉन 2009  , from left : Kunal Nayyar , Simon Helberg , Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and Johnny Galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory , created and executive  उत्पादित by चक lorre  and Bill Prady , premiered on CBS on September 24 , 2007 .
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and  लियोनार्ड hofstadter , दो caltech physicists ; पैनी , a वेट्रेस और aspiring अभिनेत्री  who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's friends and co-workers aerospace engineer Howard Wolowitz , and astrophysicist Rajesh Koothrappali .
Over time , several supporting characters have been promoted to starring roles : Leslie Winkle ( season 1 recurring ; season 2 regular ; season 3 guest ) , a physicist colleague , and , at different times , a lover of both Leonard and Howard ; Bernadette Rostenkowski-Wolowitz ( season 3 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , a microbiologist , Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife , and former part-time waitress alongside  पैनी ; neuroscientist एमी farrah fowler ( ऋतु 3 अतिथि ; ऋतु 4 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 4-present नियमित ) , जो joins  the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The show also features numerous supporting characters , each of  जिसको plays a prominent  role in a small group of episodes .
The American Civil  युद्ध ( acw ) , भी ज्ञात as the युद्ध between  the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States ( the `` Union '' or the `` North '' ) and several Southern slave states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war  था इसके उत्पत्ति in the समस्या of गुलामी , विशेषकर  the extension of slavery into the western territories .
Foreign powers  किया नहीं  intervene .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000 soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South 's infrastructure , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and  guaranteeing अधिकारों  to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election ,  republicans , led by अब्राहम  Lincoln , opposed expanding slavery into United States ' territories .
Lincoln won  , लकिन पहले उसके उद्घाटन on कूच 4 , 1861 , सात  cotton-based slave states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic President James  बुकानन और  the incoming Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address declared  उसके प्रशासन  would not initiate civil war .
Eight remaining slave states continued to  अस्वीकृत काल्स लिये secession  .
Confederate forces seized  numerous संघीय दुर्गों भीतर territory  claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to find a compromise ,  और दोनो पहलू  prepared for war .
The  confederates assumed कि यूरोपीय देशों यहूद  so dependent on `` King Cotton `` that they would intervene ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 , when Confederate forces  fired upon फोर्ट sumter , a कुंजी  fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state to provide troops to retake the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the  confederacy , bringing उनके कुल  to eleven .
the संघ जल्द नियंत्रित the किनारा राज्य  and established a naval blockade that crippled the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive  in 1861–62 .
The autumn 1862  confederate अभियान into मेरीलैंड ( a संघ  state ) ended with Confederate retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा , जिससे बना  ending slavery a war goal .
To the west , by summer  1862 the संघ नष्ट the confederate  river navy , then much of their western armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 , Robert E. Lee 's  confederate  incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command  of सब संघ सेना  in 1864 .
In the Western Theater , William T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and  marched to the समुद्र , destroying confederate  infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from  सब दिशानिर्देश , और could afford to लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण  through the Overland Campaign towards Richmond , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's surrender to Grant at  appomattox अदालत  House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil War  थी एक of the earliest  true industrial wars .
Railroads , the telegraph , steamships , and mass-produced weapons  यहूद employed extensively  .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food supplies  सब foreshadowed संसार  War I .
It remains the deadliest war in American history ,  resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित 750,000  soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of all Northern males 20–45 years old , and 30 percent of all  दक्षिणी श्वेत males aged 18–40  .
Human evolution refers to  the विकासवादी प्रक्रम  leading up to the appearance of modern humans .
While it began with the last common ancestor of all life , the  टॉपिक प्रायः कवर तभी the  evolutionary history of primates , in particular the genus Homo , and the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of hominids ( or `` great apes '' ) .
The study of human evolution  involves अनेक वैज्ञानिक disciplines , सहित शारीरिक  anthropology , primatology , archaeology , linguistics , evolutionary psychology , embryology and genetics .
According to genetic  अध्ययन , primates diverged इससे अन्य  mammals about in the Late Cretaceous period , and the earliest fossils appear in the Paleocene , around .
The family Hominidae diverged from the Hylobatidae ( Gibbon )  परिवार 15-20 लाख सालो पहले , और around , the ponginae  ( orangutans ) , diverged from the Hominidae family .
bipedalism is the मौलिक  adaption of the Hominin line , and the earliest bipedal Hominin is considered to be either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin , with Ardipithecus , a full bipedal , coming somewhat later .
The gorilla and  चिंपैंजी diverged around the वही समय , परिचय 4-6  million years ago , and either Sahelanthropus or Orrorin may be our last shared ancestor with them .
The early bipedals eventually evolved into the australopithecines  और बाद the  genus Homo .
The earliest  प्रलेखित सदस्यों of the genus होमो हैं होमो habilis जिससे विकसित  around ; the earliest species for which there is positive evidence of use of stone tools .
The brains of these  जल्दी hominins यहूद परिचय the वही आकार as  that of a chimpanzee .
During the next million years a process of  encephalization began , और साथ the आगमन  of Homo erectus in the fossil record , cranial capacity had doubled to 850 cm3 .
Homo erectus and Homo ergaster were the first of the hominina to leave Africa ,  और ये प्रजाति स्प्रेड through  Africa , Asia , and Europe between .
It is believed that these species were  the पहला to उपयोग आग और जटिल  tools .
According to the Recent African Ancestry theory , modern humans evolved in Africa possibly from Homo heidelbergensis , Homo rhodesiensis or Homo antecessor and migrated  आउट of the महाद्वीप कुछ 50,000 to 100,000 सालो  ago , replacing local populations of Homo erectus , Homo denisova , Homo floresiensis and Homo neanderthalensis .
Archaic Homo sapiens , the forerunner of anatomically modern humans , evolved between 400,000 and  250,000 सालो पहले .
Recent DNA evidence suggests that several haplotypes of Neanderthal origin are present among all non-African populations , and Neanderthals and other hominids , such as  denisova hominin may have contributed up to 6 % of उनके genome to present-day इंसानs. < संदर्भ name= '' 10.1126/science.1209202  '' > Anatomically modern humans evolved from archaic Homo sapiens in the Middle Paleolithic , about 200,000 years ago .
The transition to behavioral modernity with the development of symbolic culture , language , and  specialized lithic प्रौद्योगिकी happened around 50,000  years ago according to many anthropologists although some suggest a gradual change in behavior over a longer time span .
Lisa Cuddy , M.D . , is a fictional character on the Fox network  चिकित्सा नाटक  House .
She  is portrayed  by Lisa Edelstein .
Cuddy was the Dean of Medicine and hospital  व्यवस्थापक of the fictional princeton-plainsboro  Teaching Hospital in New Jersey .
She also  becomes हाउस 's प्रेम  interest through the years to start a relationship with him in season seven .
Cuddy  छोड़ो उसके जॉब बाद  the events of season seven 's finale `` Moving On `` .
Track and field is a sport comprising various  प्रतिस्पर्धी एथलेटिक प्रतियोगिताओं आधारित on कार्यशील  , jumping , and throwing .
The name of the sport derives from  the  competition venue : a stadium with an oval running track around a grass field .
The throwing and  कूद कार्यक्रम generally  take place in the central enclosed area .
Track and field falls under the umbrella sport of athletics , which  भी शामिल सड़क कार्यशील , क्रॉस देश कार्यशील , और रेस  walking .
The two most prestigious international track and field competitions are held under the banner of athletics : the  एथलेटिक्स प्रतियोगिता at the ओलम्पिक  Games and the IAAF World Championships in Athletics .
The International  संघ of एथलेटिक्स federations  is the international governing body for track and field .
Track and field events are generally  व्यक्तिगत खेल साथ एथलीट चुनौतीपूर्ण प्रत्येक अन्य  to decide a single victor .
The racing events are won by the athlete with the fastest time , while the jumping and throwing events are won by the  खिलाड़ी जो रै हासिल the  greatest distance or height in the contest .
The running  कार्यक्रम हैं categorised as sprints  , middle and long-distance events , relays , and hurdling .
नियमित कूद कार्यक्रम शामिल long जम्प , ट्रिपल जम्प , ऊँची जम्प  and pole vault , while the most common throwing events are shot put , javelin , discus and hammer .
There are also `` combined events '' , such as heptathlon and  decathlon , in जिससे एथलीट compete  in a number of the above events .
रिकॉर्ड हैं रखा of the बेहतरीन प्रदर्शन in विशिष्ट  events , at world and national levels , right down to a personal level .
However , if athletes are deemed to have violated the event 's rules or regulations , they  हैं disqualified इससे  the competition and their marks are erased .
In North America , the term track and field may be used to refer to athletics in  सामान्य , बल्कि than specifically track और फ़ील्ड  events .
The Gulf War ( 2 August 1990 – 28 February 1991 ) , codenamed Operation Desert Storm ( 17 January 1991 – 28 February 1991 ) was a war waged by a  u.n.-authorized गठबन्धन फ़ोर्स इससे 34 राष्ट्र led by the संयुक्त  States , against Iraq in response to Iraq 's invasion and annexation of Kuwait .
The war is also known under other names , such as the Persian Gulf War , First  गल्फ युद्ध , गल्फ युद्ध i  , or the First Iraq War , before the term `` Iraq War '' became identified instead with the 2003 Iraq War ( also referred to in the U.S. as `` Operation Iraqi Freedom '' ) .
Kuwait 's invasion by Iraqi troops that began 2 August 1990 was met with international condemnation , and brought immediate  आर्थिक प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध इराकी by  members of the U.N. Security Council .
U.S. President George H. W. Bush deployed U.S. forces into Saudi Arabia , and urged other  देशों to भेजें उनके  own forces to the scene .
An array of nations  joined the गठबन्धन  .
The great majority of the Coalition 's military forces were from the U.S.  , साथ सऊदी अरब , the संयुक्त किंगडम और मिश्र as अग्रणी योगदानकर्ता  , in that order .
Saudi Arabia paid around US $ 36 billion  of the us $ 60 अरब लागत  .
The war was marked  by the शुरूआत of सजीव न्यूज on the सामने  lines of the fight , with the primacy of the U.S. network CNN .
The war has  भी अर्जित the उपनाम वीडियो खेल  War after the daily broadcast images on board the U.S. bombers during Operation Desert Storm .
The initial conflict to expel Iraqi troops from Kuwait  began साथ an aerial बमबारी on  17 January 1991 .
This was followed by  a मैदान  assault on 24 February .
This was a decisive victory for the Coalition forces  , जो liberated  Kuwait and advanced into Iraqi territory .
The Coalition ceased their  अग्रिम , और घोषित a cease-fire  100 hours after the ground campaign started .
aerial और मैदान कॉम्बैट थी confined  to Iraq , Kuwait , and areas on Saudi Arabia 's border .
Iraq launched Scud missiles against  गठबन्धन सैन्य लक्ष्य in सऊदी  Arabia and against Israel .
The nickel , in American usage , is a five- cent coin  जारी by the संयुक्त राज्य  Mint .
रचित of  75 % copper and 25 % nickel , the piece has been struck since 1866 .
The silver half dime , equal  to पाँच सेंट  , had been issued since the 1790s .
The American Civil War caused economic hardship , driving gold  और चांदी इससे परिसंचरण ; in जवाब  , in place of low-value coins , the government at first issued paper currency .
In 1865 , Congress abolished the  five-cent fractional करेंसी नोट बाद  Spencer M. Clark , head of the Currency Bureau ( today the Bureau of Engraving and Printing ) , placed his own portrait on the denomination .
After successful  परिचय of two-cent और three-cent टुकड़े  , without precious metal , Congress also authorized a five-cent piece consisting of base metal ; the Mint began striking this version in 1866 .
The initial design of the Shield nickel was struck until 1883 , then replaced  by the स्वतंत्रता  Head nickel .
The Buffalo nickel was introduced in 1913 as  भाग of a ड्राइव to बढ़ाएँ the सौंदर्य of  American coinage ; in 1938 , the Jefferson nickel followed .
in 2004 और 2005 , खास  designs in honor of the bicentennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition were issued .
In 2006 , the Mint reverted to using Jefferson nickel designer Felix Schlag 's original  रिवर्स ( or `` tails '' पक्ष ) , हालांकि a  new obverse , by Jamie Franki , was substituted .
As of 2013 , it costs more than eleven cents to produce a nickel ; the Mint is exploring the  सम्भावना of reducing लागत by using  less expensive metals .
A poster with flowers or clusters of  पुष्प उत्पादित by बारह प्रजाति of  flowering plants from different families
A flower , sometimes known as a bloom or blossom , is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants ( plants of  the प्रभाग magnoliophyta , भी पुकारा  angiosperms ) .
The biological function of  a पुष्प is to  effect reproduction , usually by providing a mechanism for the union of sperm with eggs .
Flowers may facilitate outcrossing ( fusion of sperm and eggs from  अलग individuals in a जनसांख्यिकी )  or allow selfing ( fusion of sperm and egg from the same flower ) .
Some flowers produce diaspores  बगैर fertilization  ( parthenocarpy ) .
Flowers contain sporangia and are the site where   gametophytes develop .
Flowers give  वृद्धि to फल  and seeds .
Many flowers have evolved to be attractive to animals , so as to cause them to be  सदिश लिये the ट्रांसफ़र  of pollen .
In addition to  facilitating the जनन of flowering  plants , flowers have long been admired and used by humans to beautify their environment , and also as objects of romance , ritual , religion , medicine and as a source of food .
The McDonnell  डगलस ( अभी बोइंग ) f-15 त्रिभुज is a  twin-engine , all-weather tactical fighter designed by McDonnell Douglas to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat .
It is considered  among the सबसे कामयाब आधुनिक सेनानी  , with over 100 aerial combat victories with no losses in dogfights .
following समीक्षाएँ of प्रस्ताव , the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स चयनित mcdonnell  Douglas ' design in 1967 to meet the service 's need for a dedicated air superiority fighter .
The Eagle first flew in July 1972 , and  डाला सेवा  in 1976 .
Since the 1970s , the Eagle has  महरूम exported to इसराईल , जापानी , सऊदी  Arabia , and other nations .
The F-15 was originally envisioned  as a pure  air superiority aircraft .
Its design included a secondary ground-attack capability that was  largely अप्रयुक्त  .
The design proved flexible enough that an all-weather  स्ट्राइक डेरिवेटिव , the f-15e स्ट्राइक त्रिभुज  , was later developed , and entered service in 1989 .
The F-15  त्रिभुज is अपेक्षित  to be in service with the U.S. Air Force past 2025 .
Mimio is a brand name of a line of  प्रौद्योगिकी उत्पाद aimed  at the education market .
The primary products are focused around computer whiteboard  इंटरैक्टिव शिक्षण डिवाइस  .
mimiocapture डिवाइस  also allow users to capture all of the ink strokes that are written on the whiteboard .
When used in conjunction with a video projector it turns the  ordinary whiteboard सतह into  a fully interactive whiteboard .
The product line was originally  designed by आभासी  Ink .
On October 4 , 2006  newell rubbermaid acquired the  Mimio interactive whiteboard ( iWB ) product line .
rahab of  Jericho
Rahab , ( ; ; ) was , according to the Book of Joshua , a woman who lived in Jericho  in the promised जमीन और  assisted the Israelites in capturing the city .
Nearly all English translations of  जोशुआ describe  her as a harlot or prostitute .
The Organization of American States ( Spanish : Organización de los Estados Americanos ,  पुर्तगाली : organização डॉस estados americanos , फ्रेंच : संगठन  des États américains ) , or the OAS , is a regional international organization .
the oas थी संस्थापित on 30 अप्रैल 1948  , and has its headquarters in Washington , D.C. , United States .
Its members are the 35 independent states  of the  Americas .
Since 26 May 2005 , the  सचिव सामान्य of oas रै महरूम जोस  Miguel Insulza .
Christopher Columbus ( Italian : Cristoforo Colombo ; Spanish : Cristóbal Colón ; Portuguese : Cristóvão Colombo ; before 31 October 145120 May 1506 ) was an Italian explorer , navigator , and colonizer , born in the  गणतंत्र of जेनोआ , in कया  is today northwestern Italy .
अंतर्गत the  auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain , he completed four voyages across the Atlantic Ocean that led to general European awareness of the American continents .
Those voyages , and his efforts to establish  स्थाई settlements on the द्वीप of हिस्पानिओला  , initiated the Spanish colonization of the New World .
In the context of emerging western imperialism and economic competition between European kingdoms seeking wealth through the establishment of trade routes and colonies , Columbus 's speculative proposal , to reach the East Indies by sailing westward , eventually received the support of the Spanish crown , which saw in it a promise , however remote , of gaining the upper  हाथ over प्रतिद्वंद्वी शक्तियां in the प्रतियोगिता लिये the lucrative मसाला व्यापार साथ  Asia .
During his first voyage in 1492 , instead of reaching Japan as he had intended , Columbus landed in the Bahamas archipelago , at  a locale he नामित सैन साल्वाडोर .
Over the course of three more voyages , Columbus visited the Greater and Lesser Antilles , as well as  the caribbean coast of वेनेजुएला और सेंट्रल  America , claiming them for the Spanish Empire .
Though Columbus was not the first European explorer  to पहुँचें the americas ( having महरूम preceded by the नॉर्स expedition led by leif ericson in the  11th century ) , Columbus 's voyages led to the first lasting European contact with the Americas , inaugurating a period of European exploration , conquest , and colonization that lasted for several centuries .
वे था , इसलिए , an  enormous impact in the historical development of the modern Western world .
Columbus himself saw his  accomplishments primarily  in the light of the spreading of the Christian religion .
Never admitting that he had reached a continent previously unknown to Europeans , rather than the East Indies he had  नियत आउट लिये , कोलंबस पुकारा the निवासियों of the  lands he visited indios ( Spanish for `` Indians `` ) .
Columbus 's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators in America led to his  गिरफ़्तार और dismissal as राज्यपाल of the settlements on the  island of Hispaniola in 1500 , and later to protracted litigation over the benefits which Columbus and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown .
Bred in Germany , the Boxer is a breed  of stocky , medium-sized  , short-haired dogs .
The coat is smooth and  tight-fitting ; रंगों हैं fawn or brindled  , with or without white markings , which may cover the entire body .
Boxers are brachycephalic ( they have broad , short skulls ) , and have a square  muzzle , mandibular prognathism  ( an underbite ) , very strong jaws , and a powerful bite ideal for hanging on to large prey .
The Boxer was bred  इससे the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी बुल और the अभी विलुप्त  Bullenbeisser , and is part of the Molosser group .
Boxers were first exhibited in a dog show  लिये st. bernards in म्यूनिख in 1895 , the पहला boxer  club being founded the next year .
Based on 2012 American Kennel Club statistics , Boxers held steady as the seventh most popular breed of dog in the United  राज्य लिये the तीसरा लगातार  year .
सीरियल ata ( sata ) is a कंप्यूटर  bus interface that connects host bus adapters to mass storage devices such as hard disk drives and optical drives .
Serial ATA replaces the  पुरानी at अनुलग्नक  standard ( ATA ; later referred to as Parallel ATA or PATA ) , offering several advantages over the older interface : reduced cable size and cost ( seven conductors instead of 40 ) , native hot swapping , faster data transfer through higher signalling rates , and more efficient transfer through an ( optional ) I/O queuing protocol .
SATA host adapters and devices communicate via a  high-speed सीरियल केबल over  two pairs of conductors .
In contrast , parallel ATA ( the redesignation for the legacy ATA specifications )  प्रयुक्त a 16-bit चौड़ी आंकड़ा बस साथ अनेक अतिरिक्त support और  control signals , all operating at much lower frequency .
To ensure backward compatibility with legacy ATA software and applications , SATA uses the  वही मौलिक ata और atapi command-set as विरासत  ATA devices .
SATA has  replaced समानांतर ata in उपभोक्ता डेस्कटॉप और लैपटॉप  computers , and has largely replaced PATA in new embedded applications .
sata 's मार्केट share in the  desktop PC market was 99 % in 2008 .
PATA remains widely used in industrial and embedded applications that use CompactFlash storage , even though the  नई cfast मानक  is based on SATA .
Serial ATA industry  संगतता  specifications originate from The Serial ATA International Organization ( aka .
sata-io  , serialata.org ) .
The SATA-IO group collaboratively creates , reviews ,  ratifies , और publishes the interoperability  specifications , the test cases , and plug-fests .
As  साथ अनेक अन्य उद्योग संगतता  standards , the SATA content ownership is transferred to other industry bodies : primarily the INCITS T13 subcommittee ATA , the INCITS T10 subcommittee ( SCSI ) ; a subgroup of T10 responsible for Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) .
The complete  specification  from SATA-IO .
The remainder of this article will  कोशिश to उपयोग the शब्दावली  and specifications of SATA-IO .
The history of the Internet began with the  विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर  in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead  to the अंतरजाल जब a संदेश  was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California , Los Angeles ( UCLA ) , after the second piece of network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I at NPL in the UK , CYCLADES , Merit Network , Tymnet , and  telenet , यहूद विकसित in the लेट 1960s और जल्दी 1970s using a किस्में of प्रोटोकॉल  .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking , in which multiple separate networks could be  joined साथ into a संजाल  of networks .
In 1982 , the Internet  प्रोटोकॉल सुइट ( tcp/ip ) थी मानकीकृत , और नतीजतन  , the concept of a world-wide network of interconnected TCP/IP networks , called the Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in 1981 when the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) developed the  कंप्यूटर विज्ञान संजाल ( csnet ) और again in 1986 जब nsfnet provided  access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations .
Commercial Internet  सेवा प्रदाताओं (  ISPs ) began to emerge in the late 1980s and early 1990s .
The ARPANET was  decommissioned  in 1990 .
The Internet was commercialized in 1995 when NSFNET was decommissioned , removing the last restrictions on the use of  the अंतरजाल to carry वाणिज्यिक ट्रैफ़िक  .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce , including the rise of  near-instant संचार by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक मेल , तत्काल messaging , आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स '' , two-way इंटरैक्टिव वीडियो काल्स , और the संसार चौड़ी वेब साथ  its discussion forums , blogs , social networking , and online shopping sites .
The research  और शिक्षा जातियाँ continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत संजाल ऐसे  as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds   over fiber optic networks operating at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only  communicated 1 % of the सूचना बहती through two-way दूरसंचार  networks in the year 1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , and more than 97 % of the telecommunicated information by 2007 .
Today the  अंतरजाल continues to grow , चलित by कभी वृहद  amounts of online information , commerce , entertainment , and social networking .
The Gift is the second album by Scottish singer Susan Boyle , which was released on 8  नवम्बर 2010  .
Boyle hinted that the album has a 1960s feel ``  क्युकी कि थी  [ her ] era '' .
on 30 November 2011 ,  the एल्बम प्राप्त a नामांकन in  54th Grammy Awards for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album .
`` This Is Just  to कह '' ( 1934 )  is a famous imagist poem by William Carlos Williams .
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore is a major character and protagonist of J. K.  रोलिंग 's हैरी कुम्हार श्रेणी  .
For most of the  श्रेणी , he is the हेडमास्टर  of the wizarding school Hogwarts .
As part of his backstory , it is revealed  कि he is the संस्थापक और नेता of the अनुक्रम of  the Phoenix , an organisation dedicated to fighting the main antagonist of the series , Lord Voldemort .
Dumbledore is portrayed by Richard Harris in the film adaptions of Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone and Harry  Potter and the  Chamber of Secrets .
After Harris ' death , Michael Gambon  portrayed डम्बल्डोर लिये सब  of the remaining films .
Rowling stated she chose  the नाम डम्बल्डोर , जिससे is an जल्दी आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी  word for `` bumblebee `` , because of Dumbledore 's love of music : she imagined him walking around `` humming to himself a lot '' .
Calcitonin ( also known as thyrocalcitonin ) is a 32-amino acid linear polypeptide  हार्मोन कि is उत्पादित in इंसानो primarily by the parafollicular कोशिकाएं ( भी  known as C-cells ) of the thyroid , and in many other animals in the ultimobranchial body .
It acts to reduce blood  कैल्सियम ( ca2+  ) , opposing the effects of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) .
Calcitonin has been  मिला in मछली  , reptiles , birds , and mammals .
Its importance in humans has not been as well established as its importance in other animals , as its function is usually not  significant  in the regulation of normal calcium homeostasis .
it belongs to calcitonin-like  protein family .
A  mousepad साथ  a padded wrist rest .
A  mousepad ( us )  or mouse mat ( UK ) is a surface for placing and moving a computer mouse .
A mousepad enhances the usability of the mouse compared to using a mouse directly on a  तालिका by providing a सतह to allow the  tracking LED or ball ( in former models ) to measure movement accurately and without jitter .
Some mousepads increase ergonomics by providing a  padded कलाई  rest .
The  स्टेडियम देखी  from above in 1980
दिसम्बर 29  , 2002 implosion
The Riverfront Stadium  साईट in जून  , 2006 .
इस फ़ोटो थी लिया इससे  the western concourse of Great American Ball Park .
A small portion of the Riverfront Stadium site is now occupied by the Reds ' Hall of Fame and Museum  और प्रमुख गली , जिससे थी विस्तारित  when the new park was built .
the  Cincinnati Bengals ' Paul Brown Stadium is in the distance .
Riverfront Stadium ( 1970–1995 ) , later known as  cinergy फ़ील्ड ( 1996–2002 ) , थी the घर of the सिनसिनाटी  Reds National League baseball team and the Cincinnati Bengals National Football League team .
Located on the Ohio River in downtown Cincinnati , the stadium was  बेहतरीन ज्ञात as the घर of `` the बिग रेड यंत्र  `` , as the Reds were often called in the 1970s .
Construction began on February 1 , 1968 , and was completed at a  लागत  of less than $ 50 million .
On June 30 , 1970 , the  लाल  hosted the Atlanta Braves in their grand opening , with Hank Aaron hitting the first ever home run at Riverfront .
Two weeks later on July 14 , 1970 , Riverfront hosted the 1970 Major  लीग बेसबॉल all-star खेल  .
This game is best remembered for the often-replayed collision at home plate between  लाल स्टार पीट रोज़ और catcher  Ray Fosse of the Cleveland Indians .
In September 1996 ,  riverfront स्टेडियम थी renamed `` cinergy फ़ील्ड '' in a प्रायोजन सौदे साथ  Greater Cincinnati 's energy company , Cinergy Corporation .
In 2001 , to make room for Great  अमरीकी बॉल पार्क , the seating  capacity at Cinergy Field was reduced to 39,000 .
There was a huge wall in Center Field visible after the  renovations , to serve  as the batter 's eye .
the स्टेडियम थी demolished  by implosion on December 29 , 2002 .
Nexen Tire is a tire manufacturer , headquartered in Yangsan , South  gyeongsang प्रांत , और  Seoul , both in South Korea .
Its major domestic competitors are Hankook  टायर और kumho टायर  .
The company 's  नाम is reflected in the कम्पनी  slogan , `` Next Century Tire . ''
The silent majority is an unspecified large majority  of लोगों in a देश or समूह  who do not express their opinions publicly .
The term was popularized  ( हालांकि नहीं पहला प्रयुक्त ) by u.S. अध्यक्ष रिचर्ड  Nixon in a November 3 , 1969 , speech in which he said , `` And so tonight—to you , the great silent majority of my fellow Americans—I ask for your support . ''
In this usage it referred to those Americans who did not join in the large demonstrations against the Vietnam War at the  समय , जो किया नहीं जुड़ें  in the counterculture , and who did not participate in public discourse .
Nixon along with many others saw this group of Middle  अमेरिकी as होने निष्प्रभ in the मीडिया  by the more vocal minority .
The phrase was used in the 19th century as a euphemism referring to all the people  जो have died , और अन्य have प्रयुक्त it पहले और बाद निक्सन to refer  to groups of voters in various nations of the world .
Sam , a rhesus monkey , flew to  an ऊँचाई of 88 km  in 1959 .
(  नासा )
Before humans went into space , several animals were launched into space , including numerous monkeys , so that scientists could investigate the  biological प्रभाव of स्पेस सफर  .
The United States launched flights containing primate cargo primarily  between 1948-1961 साथ एक उड़ान in 1969  and one in 1985 .
France launched  दो monkey-carrying फ़्लाइट  in 1967 .
The Soviet Union and  रूस  launched monkeys between 1983 and 1996 .
Most monkeys were anesthetized  पहले lift-off  .
Overall thirty-two monkeys flew in the  स्पेस कार्यक्रम ; none उड़ाया  more than once .
Numerous  back-up बंदरों  also went through the programs but never flew .
बंदरों इससे अनेक  species were used , including rhesus monkeys , cynomolgus monkeys , squirrel monkeys , and pig-tailed macaques .
Some chimpanzees ( which are  apes बल्कि than बंदरों )  were also used .
रेड ( अनावश्यक सरणी of स्वतंत्र डिस्क , originally  redundant array of inexpensive disks ) is a storage technology that combines multiple disk drive components into a logical unit .
Data is distributed across the drives in one of several ways called `` RAID  स्तर '' , depending on the स्तर of अतिरेक  and performance required .
The term `` RAID '' was first defined by David Patterson , Garth  A. गिब्सन , और रैंडी katz at the विश्वविद्यालयों of कैलिफ़ोर्निया ,  Berkeley in 1987 .
Marketers  representing उद्योग रेड निर्माताओं बाद attempted to reinvent the पद to describe  a redundant array of independent disks as a means of disassociating a low-cost expectation from RAID technology .
RAID is now used as an umbrella term for computer data storage schemes that can  divide और replicate आंकड़ा among अनेक  physical drives : RAID is an example of storage virtualization and the array can be accessed by the operating system as one single drive .
The different schemes or architectures are named by the word RAID followed by a  क्रमांक ( e.g . रेड 0 , रेड 1 )  .
Each scheme provides a  अलग संतुलन between the  key goals : reliability and availability , performance and capacity .
RAID levels greater than RAID 0 provide  सुरक्षा  against unrecoverable ( sector ) read errors , as well as whole disk failure .
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in the  vertebrate प्रतिरक्षा प्रणाली  .
Under the microscope ,  lymphocytes can be विभाजित into  large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes .
Large granular  lymphocytes शामिल प्राकृतिक कातिल  cells ( NK cells ) .
Small lymphocytes consist of T cells  और b कोशिकाएं  .
The Big Lebowski is a 1998 dark comedy film written and  निर्देशित by  Joel and Ethan Coen .
जेफ़ पुलों सितारों as जेफ़ lebowski  , an unemployed Los Angeles slacker and avid bowler , nicknamed `` The Dude . ''
After a case of mistaken identity , The Dude is  introduced to a करोड़पति  also named Jeffrey Lebowski .
When the millionaire Lebowski 's trophy wife is later kidnapped , he commissions The Dude to deliver the ransom to  सुरक्षित उसके रिलीज  .
The plan goes awry when The Dude 's friend Walter Sobchak ( John Goodman )  योजनाएं to रखना the पूरा फिरौती  .
Steve  buscemi , फिलिप seymour हॉफमन , दाउद huddleston  , Julianne Moore , Tara Reid , and John Turturro also star in the film , which is narrated by a cowboy known only as `` The Stranger '' , played by Sam Elliott .
the फिल्मी  is loosely inspired by the work of Raymond Chandler .
Joel Coen stated : `` We wanted to do a Chandler kind of story – how it moves episodically , and deals with the characters trying to unravel a mystery ,  as खूब as having a hopelessly जटिल प्लाट कि 's ultimately महत्वहीन .  ''
The original score was composed by Carter Burwell , a  longtime collaborator of the कोएन  Brothers .
The Big Lebowski was a disappointment at the U.S. box office and received mixed reviews at the time  of इसके रिलीज .
Reviews have trended towards the positive over time , and the film has become a cult favorite , noted for its idiosyncratic characters ,  सपना sequences ,  unconventional dialogue , and eclectic soundtrack .
Severus Snape is a fictional character in the Harry Potter book series  लिखा by j.K. रोलिंग  .
In the first novel of the series , he is hostile toward Harry and is built up to be  the प्राथमिक विपक्षी जबतक  the final chapters .
As the series progresses ,  snape 's अक्षर  becomes more layered and complex .
Rowling does not fully reveal the details of his  सच्चा loyalties जबतक the समाप्त of the फाइनल  book , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows .
Over the course  of the श्रेणी , snape 's portrayal  evolves from that of a malicious and partisan teacher to that of a pivotal character of considerable complexity and moral ambiguity .
Snape primarily teaches Potions at Hogwarts , though in the sixth novel he teaches Defence Against the   Dark Arts , a position which he was known to have desired throughout the series .
He ultimately  becomes हेडमास्टर  of Hogwarts in the final novel .
Rowling has described him as `` a gift of  a अक्षर ''  .
grits refers to a ground-corn खाना of देशी  American origin , that is common in the Southern United States and mainly eaten at breakfast .
Modern grits are commonly made of alkali-treated  मकई ज्ञात as hominy  .
Grits are similar to other thick maize-based porridges from around the world  ऐसे as polenta or the  thinner farina .
`` Instant  grits '' have  been processed to speed cooking .
The word `` grits '' derives from  the बूढ़ा अंग्रेज़ी शब्द `` grytt , ''  meaning coarse meal .
This word originally referred to wheat and other porridges now known as groats  in भाग of  the U.K..
Maize , unknown in Europe in the Middle Ages , is a food derived  इससे मकई ( a नई संसार संयंत्र ) और ``  corn '' had been used to describe wheat products in many European regions .
`` Grits '' may be either singular or plural ; historically , in the American South the word was invariably singular notwithstanding its plural form ( cf . such food names  as `` स्पघेटी '' or `` linguine '' , likewise बहुवचन in रूप  , but singular in use ) .
Sometimes , grits are called sofkee or  sofkey ( इससे a देशी  American Muskogee word ) .
In molecular biology , human chorionic gonadotropin ( hCG ) is a hormone  उत्पादित by the निषेचित अंडा बाद धारणा  .
बाद दौरान गर्भावस्था it is बना by  the developing placenta , and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore , elevated levels measured when the patient is not  गर्भवती can सीसे  to a cancer diagnosis .
However , it is not  ज्ञात whether इस उत्पादन is a contributing  cause or an effect of tumorigenesis .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as luteinizing  हार्मोन ( lh ) , is  produced in the pituitary gland of males and females of all ages .
,  the एफडीए रै निषिद्ध the  sale of `` homeopathic '' and over the counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
The Las Vegas Strip World  of coca-cola संग्रहालय  in 2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores  , रेस्तरां , और वेंडिंग मशीने  in every country except Cuba and North Korea .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and is  प्रायः referred to बस as कोक ( a  registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27 , 1944 ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs  candler , जिनकी विपणन tactics led कोक to इसके दबदबा of the संसार soft-drink मार्केट throughout  the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then  बेची  to licensed Coca-Cola bottlers throughout the world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company , produce finished product in cans and bottles from  the concentrate  in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell , distribute and merchandise Coca-Cola to retail  स्टोर्स और वेंडिंग मशीने  .
Such  bottlers शामिल coca-cola  Enterprises , which is the largest single Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western Europe .
The Coca-Cola Company also sells concentrate for  सोडा  fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company has , on occasion , introduced other cola drinks under  the कोक ब्रांड  name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free ,  coca-cola चेरी , coca-cola शून्य  , Coca-Cola Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's best global brand 2011 , Coca-Cola was  the संसार 's सबसे मूल्यवान  brand .
An ombudsman is an official , usually appointed by the government or by parliament but with a significant degree of independence , who is charged with representing the interests of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of  maladministration or उल्लंघन of  rights .
In some countries an Inspector General , Citizen Advocate or other official may have duties similar to those of  a नेशनल ombudsman , और may भी be नियुक्त by the विधानमंडल  .
Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state , local or municipal government , and  unofficial ombudsmen may be नियुक्त by , or भी कार्य लिये , a निगम ऐसे as a यूटिलिटी  supplier or a newspaper , for an NGO , or for a professional regulatory body .
Whether appointed by the legislature , the executive , or an organization ( or , less frequently , elected by the constituency that he or she serves ) ,  the ठेठ कर्तव्य of an ombudsman हैं to investigate शिकायत और attempt to निराकरण उन्हें , प्रायः through  recommendations ( binding or not ) or mediation .
Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to  पहचानो प्रणालीगत मुद्दे अग्रणी to ग़रीब सेवा or breaches  of people 's rights .
At the national level , most ombudsmen have a wide mandate to deal with  the संपूर्ण पब्लिक सेक्टर , और sometimes भी  elements of the private sector ( for example , contracted service providers ) .
In some cases , there is a more  प्रतिबंधित जनादेश  , for example with particular sectors of society .
More  हाल developments have शामिल the सृष्टि  of specialised Children 's Ombudsman and Information Commissioner agencies .
In some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with the handling of concerns about national government is more formally referred to as the `` Parliamentary  कमिश्नर '' ( e.g . the संयुक्त किंगडम संसदीय कमिश्नर लिये प्रशासन  , and the Western Australian state Ombudsman ) .
In many countries where the ombudsman 's remit extends beyond dealing with alleged maladministration to  promoting और protecting इंसान अधिकारों , the ombudsman  is recognised as the national human rights institution .
The post of ombudsman had by  the समाप्त of the 20th सदी महरूम instituted by सबसे सरकारें  and by some intergovernmental organizations such as the European Union .
बनाना a शिकायत to  an ombudsman is usually free of charge .
Sign at  georgetown विश्वविद्यालयों  Washington DC
Sign in Banjul ,  the गाम्बिया
Autumn in New England , watercolor , Maurice  prendergast  .
Ca .  1910–1913
Fall  foliage in  the town of Stowe , Vermont
New  इंग्लैण्ड  is a region in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of the six states of Maine , New Hampshire , Vermont , Massachusetts , Rhode Island , and Connecticut .
New England is bordered  by नई यॉर्क राज्य to the दक्षिणपश्चिम , क्यूबेक  to the northwest , and New Brunswick and the Atlantic Ocean to the east .
In one of the earliest English settlements in North America , Pilgrims  इससे इंग्लैण्ड पहला settled  in New England in 1620 , to form Plymouth Colony .
Ten years  बाद , the puritans settled उत्तर of plymouth  Colony in Boston , thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony .
Over the next 130 years , New England fought in four French and Indian Wars ,  जबतक the अंग्रेजों पराजित the फ्रेंच  and their native allies in North America .
In  the लेट 18th सदी , the  New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the British Parliament 's efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists .
The Boston Tea Party was a protest to which Great Britain responded  साथ a श्रेणी of दंडात्मक कानून stripping मैसाचुसेट्स  of self-government , which were termed the `` Intolerable Acts `` by the colonists .
The confrontation led to open warfare in 1775 , the expulsion of the British authorities  इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड in वसन्त 1776 , और the घोषणा  of Independence in July 1776 .
Some of the first movements of American literature , philosophy , and education originated in New   England .
The region played a prominent  भूमिका in the गति to abolish गुलामी ,  and was the first region of the United States to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution .
Today , New  इंग्लैण्ड is  a major world center of education , high technology , insurance , and medicine .
Boston is its cultural , financial  , शैक्षणिक , चिकित्सा और परिवहन  center .
Each state is principally subdivided  into छोटी incorporated municipalities ज्ञात as नई  England towns , which are often governed by town meeting .
The only  unincorporated territory in नई इंग्लैण्ड exists in the sparse  , northern regions of Vermont , New Hampshire , and Maine .
Since 1970 , voters have more  प्रायः समर्थित उदार उम्मीदवार at  the state and federal level than those of any other region in the United States .
New England is the only one of the United  राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's नौ क्षेत्रीय विभाजन जिनकी  name does not derive from its geography , and it is the only multi-state region with clear , consistent boundaries .
It  maintains a दमदार भाव of सांस्कृतिक पहचान नियत अलावा इससे the बाकी of the देश  , although the terms of this identity are often contested , combining Puritanism with liberalism , agrarian life with industry , and isolation with immigration .
आपात  !
is an  अमरीकी टेलीविज़न  series that combines the medical drama and action-adventure genres .
It was produced by Mark VII Limited and  वितरित by सार्वभौमिक  Studios .
It debuted as a midseason replacement on January 15 , 1972 , on NBC , replacing the two short-lived series The Partners  और the शुभ जीवन , और भागा जबतक सितंबर 3 , 1977 , साथ छह अतिरिक्त two-hour टेलीविज़न films  during the following two years .
आपात  !
was created and produced by Jack Webb and Robert A. Cinader , both of whom were also  जिम्मेदार लिये the पुलिस dramas adam-12 और dragnet .
The Eastern Time Zone ( ET ) encompasses 17 U.S. states in the eastern  भाग of the संलग्न संयुक्त  States , parts of Canada and three countries in South America .
Places that use Eastern Standard Time ( EST ) when  observing मानक  time ( autumn/winter ) are 5 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
Eastern Daylight Time ( EDT ) , when observing  daylight छायांकन समय ( spring/summer  ) is 4 hours behind Coordinated Universal Time ( ) .
In the northern parts of the time zone , during the second Sunday in March , at 2:00 a.m. EST , clocks are advanced to 3:00 a.m. EDT  leaving a एक घंटा `` गैप . ''
During the first Sunday in November , at  2:00 a.m. edt , घड़ियाँ  are moved back to 1:00 a.m. EST , thus `` duplicating '' one hour .
Southern parts of the zone ( Panama and the Caribbean ) do  नहीं observe daylight  saving .
Standard form of the  आवधिक तालिका .
The colors  represent अलग  categories of elements explained below .
The periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements , organized on the basis  of their  atomic numbers , electron configurations , and recurring chemical properties .
Elements are presented in order of increasing atomic number (  क्रमांक of  protons ) .
The standard form of table comprises an 18 × 7 grid or main body  of तत्व , positioned ऊपर a छोटी  double row of elements .
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left , the p-block to the right , the d-block in the  मध्य , और the f-block नीचे कि  .
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s- , d- , and p-blocks are called groups ,  साथ कुछ of ये having  names such as the halogens or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates  पुनरावर्ती रुझान , कोई ऐसे तालिका can be प्रयुक्त to derive संबंध  between the properties of the elements and predict the properties of new , yet to be discovered or synthesized , elements .
As a  परिणाम , a आवधिक table—whether in the मानक  form or some other variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
Although precursors exist , Dmitri  mendeleev is generally credited  with the publication , in 1869 , of the first widely recognized periodic table .
He developed his table to illustrate  आवधिक रुझान  in the properties of the then-known elements .
Mendeleev also predicted some properties of then-unknown elements that would be  अपेक्षित to भरण गैप in इस  table .
Most of his predictions were  proved सही जब  the elements in question were subsequently discovered .
Mendeleev 's periodic table  रै चूंकि महरूम विस्तारित  and refined with the discovery or synthesis of further new elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior .
All elements from atomic numbers 1 ( hydrogen  ) to 118 ( ununoctium  ) have been discovered or synthesized .
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been  मिला to मौजूद naturally  , although some are found only in trace amounts and were initially discovered by synthesis in laboratories .
The elements  बाद 98 have  only been synthesized in laboratories .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued , with the question  of कैसा the आवधिक तालिका may need to be परिवर्धित  to accommodate any such additions being a matter of ongoing debate .
Numerous synthetic radionuclides  of naturally occurring तत्व  have also been produced in laboratories .
Minecraft is a sandbox indie game originally created by  स्वीडिश प्रोग्रामर markus `` पायदान '' persson और बाद  developed and published by Mojang .
It was publicly released for the PC on May 17 , 2009 , as a developmental  अल्फा संस्करण और , बाद क्रमिक  updates , was published as a full release version on November 18 , 2011 .
A  संस्करण लिये एंड्रॉइड थी released  a month earlier on October 7 , and an iOS version was released on November 17 , 2011 .
On May 9 , 2012 , the game was released on Xbox 360 as an Xbox Live  आर्केड खेल , co-developed by  4J Studios .
All  संस्करण  of Minecraft receive periodic updates .
The creative and building aspects of Minecraft allow players to build  constructions आउट of textured  cubes in a 3D procedurally generated world .
Other activities in the game include exploration ,  महफ़िल संसाधन , crafting  and combat .
Gameplay in its commercial release has two  प्रिंसिपल मोड्स : अस्तित्व , जिससे  requires players to acquire resources and maintain their health and hunger ; and creative , where players have an unlimited supply of resources , the ability to fly , and no health or hunger .
A third gameplay mode named hardcore is the same as  अस्तित्व , differing तभी in परेशानी ; it is  set to hardest setting and respawning is disabled , forcing players to delete their worlds upon death .
Minecraft received five awards from the 2011 Game Developers  सम्मेलन : it थी awarded the नवीनता पुरस्कार , बेहतरीन downloadable खेल पुरस्कार , और the बेहतरीन  Debut Game Award from the Game Developers Choice Awards ; and the Audience Award , as well as the Seumas McNally Grand Prize , from the Independent Games Festival in 2011 .
In 2012 , Minecraft was  awarded a सुनहरी जॉयस्टिक पुरस्कार in  the category Best Downloadable Game .
As of April 8 , 2013 , the  खेल रै बेची over 10 लाख  copies on PC and as of January 22 , 2013 , over 20 million copies across all platforms .
The Dark Knight is a 2008 British-American  सुपरहीरो फिल्मी निर्देशित , उत्पादित , और co-written  by Christopher Nolan .
Based on the DC Comics character Batman , the film is the second part of Nolan 's Batman  फिल्मी श्रेणी और a sequel to 2005 's बैटमैन  Begins .
Christian Bale reprises the  सीसे भूमिका of ब्रूस wayne/batman , साथ a  returning cast of Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth , Gary Oldman as James Gordon and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox .
The film introduces the character of Harvey Dent  ( आरोन eckhart ) , गोथम 's newly निर्वाचित ज़िला attorney और the consort of ब्रूस वेन  's childhood friend Rachel Dawes ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) , who joins Batman and the police in combating the new rising threat of a criminal mastermind calling himself `` The Joker `` ( Heath Ledger ) .
Nolan 's inspiration for the film was the Joker 's comic book debut in 1940 , the 1988 graphic novel  , और the 1996 श्रेणी , जिससे retold  Two-Face 's origin .
The nickname `` the Dark Knight '' was first applied to  बैटमैन in बैटमैन no .  1 ( 1940 ) , in a story written by Bill Finger .
The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago , as well as in several other locations in the United States ,  the संयुक्त किंगडम ,  and Hong Kong .
Nolan used an IMAX camera to film some  sequences , सहित  the Joker 's first appearance in the film .
On January 22 , 2008 , some months after he had completed filming on The Dark Knight and six months before the film 's release , Heath Ledger died from a toxic combination of prescription drugs ,  अग्रणी to तीव्र ध्यान  from the press and movie-going public .
Warner Bros. had initially created a viral marketing campaign for The Dark Knight  , विकासशील promotional वेबसाइटों और trailers highlighting स्क्रीन गोलियाँ  of Ledger as the Joker , but after Ledger 's death , the studio refocused its promotional campaign .
The Dark Knight was released on July 16 , 2008 in Australia , on July 18 ,  2008 in उत्तर अमेरिका , और on जुलाई 24 ,  2008 in the United Kingdom .
Considered one of the best films of the 2000s and one of the best superhero films ever made , the film received highly positive reviews and set numerous records during its theatrical   run .
With over $ 1 billion in revenue  विश्वव्यापी  , it is the 14th-highest-grossing film of all time , unadjusted for inflation .
The film received eight Academy Award  nominations ; it जीती the पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन ध्वनि  Editing and Ledger was posthumously awarded Best Supporting Actor .
The Dark Knight Rises , the final  भाग of the  trilogy , was released on July 20 , 2012 .
The timeline of radio lists within the history of radio , the technology and events that  उत्पादित यंत्र कि उपयोग रेडियो लहरें और क्रियाएँ  that people undertook .
Later , the history is dominated by programming and contents  , जिससे is करीब to  general history .
The Sydney Opera House is a multi-venue  performing कला केन्द्र in  New South Wales , Australia .
It was conceived and largely built by Danish architect Jørn Utzon ,  खोलने in 1973 बाद a long gestation कि  began with his competition-winning design in 1957 .
Joseph Cahill 's New South Wales Government gave the go-ahead  लिये कार्य  to begin in 1958 .
The government 's bold decision to select  utzon 's डिज़ाइन is प्रायः निष्प्रभ  by the scandal that followed .
It is on Bennelong Point in Sydney Harbour , close  to the सिडनी harbour सेतु  .
It sits at the northeastern tip of the Sydney central business district ( the CBD ) ,  घिरी on तीन पहलू by the harbour ( सिडनी कोव और फार्म  Cove ) and inland by the Royal Botanic Gardens .
Contrary to its name , it houses multiple performance  venues  .
It is among the busiest performing arts centres in the world , hosting over 1,500 performances each  साल attended by कुछ 1.2 लाख लोगों  .
It provides a venue for many performing-arts companies , including the four key resident companies Opera Australia , The Australian Ballet , the Sydney Theatre Company and the Sydney Symphony Orchestra  , और presents a चौड़ी दायरा of  productions on its own account .
It is also one of  the सबसे लोकप्रिय आगंतुक आकर्षण in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , with more than seven million people visiting each year , 300,000 of whom take a guided tour .
It is administered by  the सिडनी ओपेरा हाउस विश्वास , अंतर्गत  the New South Wales Ministry of the Arts .
On 28 June 2007 , it was made a  युनेस्को  World Heritage Site .
It is one of the 20th century 's  सबसे distinctive इमारतें और एक of  the most famous performing arts centres in the world .
A graph of body mass index as a function of  देह द्रव्यमान और देह ऊँचाई  is shown above .
The dashed lines  represent  subdivisions within a major class .
For instance the `` Underweight '' classification is  further विभाजित into `` कठोर  '' , `` moderate '' , and `` mild '' subclasses .
The body mass  अनुक्रमणिका ( बीएमआई ) , or quetelet  index , is a measure for human body shape based on an individual 's weight and height .
it थी devised between 1830 और 1850  by the Belgian polymath Adolphe Quetelet during the course of developing `` social physics '' .
Body mass index is defined as the individual 's body mass  विभाजित by  the square of their height .
the formulae universally  used in medicine produce a unit of measure of kg/m2 .
BMI can also be determined using a BMI chart , which displays BMI as a  फलन of वज़न ( आड़ा अक्ष  ) and height ( vertical axis ) using contour lines for different values of BMI or colors for different BMI categories .
† The factor for UK/US units is more precisely  703.06957964 , लकिन कि स्तर of परिशुद्धता  is not meaningful for this calculation .
To work from stone and pounds first multiply the stone by 14 then add the pounds to give the whole mass in pounds ; to work from feet  और इंच पहला गुणा the फीट by 12 तब add the इंच to  give the whole height in inches .
Thomas Paine ( January 29 , 1737 ( NS February 9 , 1737 ) – June  8 , 1809 ) थी an english-american राजनैतिक activist  , author , political theorist and revolutionary .
As the author of two highly influential pamphlets at the start of the American Revolution , he inspired  the देशप्रेमी in 1776  to declare independence from Britain .
His ideas reflected Enlightenment era rhetoric of  transnational इंसान अधिकारों .
He has been called `` a corsetmaker by trade , a journalist by  व्यवसायिक , और a propagandist  by inclination . ''
Born in Thetford , England , in the county of Norfolk , Paine emigrated  to the अंग्रेजों अमरीकी  colonies in 1774 with the help of Benjamin Franklin and he arrived in time to participate in the American Revolution .
His principal contributions were the powerful , widely read pamphlet Common  भाव ( 1776 ) , the all-time best-selling  American book that advocated colonial America 's independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain , and The American Crisis ( 1776–83 ) , a pro-revolutionary pamphlet series .
Common Sense was so influential that John Adams said ,  `` बगैर the  pen of the author of Common Sense , the sword of Washington would have been raised in vain.”
Paine lived in France for most of the 1790s ,  बनने deeply शामिल  in the French Revolution .
He wrote the Rights of Man ( 1791 ) , in part a  रक्षा of the फ्रेंच क्रान्ति  against its critics .
His attacks on British writer Edmund Burke led to a trial and conviction in absentia in 1792 for the crime  of seditious मानहानि  .
In 1792 , despite  नहीं होने समर्थ to बोलो  French , he was elected to the French National Convention .
The Girondists  regarded उसे as an  ally .
Consequently , the Montagnards ,  विशेषकर robespierre , regarded  him as an enemy .
In December 1793 , he was  गिरफ्तार और imprisoned  in Paris , then released in 1794 .
He became notorious because of The Age of Reason ( 1793–94 ) , his book that  अधिवक्ताओं देववाद , promotes कारण और freethinking , और argues  against institutionalized religion in general and Christian doctrine in particular .
He  भी लिखा the pamphlet  Agrarian Justice ( 1795 ) , discussing the origins of property , and introduced the concept of a guaranteed minimum income .
In 1802 , he  लौटे to अमेरिका  where he died on June 8 , 1809 .
Only six  लोगों attended उसके अंत्येष्टि as he था  been ostracized for his ridicule of Christianity .
Clinical trials are sets of tests in medical research and drug development that generate safety and efficacy data  ( or अधिक specifically , सूचना परिचय प्रतिकूल ड्रग प्रतिक्रियाएँ और प्रतिकूल प्रभाव of अन्य  treatments ) for health interventions ( e.g. , drugs , diagnostics , devices , therapy protocols ) .
They are conducted only after  संतोषजनक सूचना रै महरूम  gathered on the quality of the non clinical safety , and health authority/ethics committee approval is granted in the country where approval of the drug or device is sought .
Previously , many emerging countries  किया नहीं आवश्यकता लोकल ट्रायल  for product approvals .
Now , though emerging countries still accept data  इससे u.s./europe , वे भी आवश्यकता  some local trials .
Depending on the type of product and the stage of its development , investigators  initially enroll स्वयंसेवक and/or  patients into small pilot studies , and subsequently conduct larger scale studies in patients that often compare the new product with others already approved for the affliction of interest .
As  धनात्मक सुरक्षा और efficacy  data are gathered , the number of patients is typically increased .
Clinical trials can vary in size , and  can involve a सिंगल शोध एंटिटी in एक देश or  many such entities in multiple countries .
A full series of trials may incur sizable costs , and the burden of paying for all the necessary people and services is usually borne  by the प्रायोजक , जिससे may be a सरकारी संगठन  or a pharmaceutical , biotechnology or medical device company .
When the diversity of required support roles exceeds the resources of the sponsor , a clinical trial is managed by an outsourced partner , such as a  अनुबंध शोध संगठन or a नैदानिक ट्रायल ईकाई in  the academic sector .
The Green Bay  पैकर्स हैं an अमरीकी  football team based in Green Bay , Wisconsin .
They are members of the North Division of the National Football Conference ( NFC ) in the National Football  लीग  ( NFL ) .
Green Bay is the third-oldest franchise in the  एनएफएल , having महरूम व्यवस्थित  and playing in 1919 .
The Packers are the only non-profit , community-owned major league  पेशेवर खेल टोली  in the United States .
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common in  the एनएफएल दौरान the 1920s और 1930s  .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George  व्हिटनी calhoun , the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स can ट्रेस उनके lineage to अन्य semi-professional  teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the  पैकर्स competed as a semi-professional  football team against clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest .
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921 , the  forerunner to कया is  known today as the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Although Green Bay is the last NFL `` small town '' team , its local fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ;  the टोली भी निभाई चयनित  home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The Green Bay Packers have won 13 league championships ( more than any other team in the NFL ) , including  नौ एनएफएल championships prior to the सुपर कटोरी era और चार सुपर कटोरी victories —in  1967 ( Super Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ) .
The Packers have long-standing , bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the  nfc सेंट्रल ) प्रतिद्वंद्वियों , the शिकागो  Bears , Minnesota Vikings and the Detroit Lions .
The  bears-packers फंसने is एक of the oldest rivalries  in NFL history , dating back to 1921 .
Ethanol fuel is ethanol ( ethyl alcohol ) , the same type of alcohol found in  alcoholic पेय  .
It is most often used as a motor fuel , mainly  as a biofuel योगात्मक लिये  gasoline .
World ethanol production for transport fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from 17 billion to  अधिक than 52 अरब liters  .
From 2007 to 2008 , the share  of इथेनॉल in वैश्विक  gasoline type fuel use increased from 3.7 % to 5.4 % .
In 2011 worldwide ethanol fuel production reached 22.36 billion U.S. liquid gallons ( bg ) ( 84.6 billion liters ) , with the  संयुक्त राज्य as the शीर्ष निर्माता साथ 13.9 bg ( 52.6 अरब liters ) , हिसाब  for 62.2 % of global production , followed by Brazil with 5.6 bg ( 21.1 billion liters ) .
Ethanol fuel has a `` gasoline gallon  equivalency `` ( gge ) मान of , जिससे  means 1.5 gallons of ethanol produce the energy of one gallon of gasoline .
Ethanol fuel is widely used in Brazil and in the United States , and together both  देशों यहूद  responsible for 87.1 % of the world 's ethanol fuel production in 2011 .
Most cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on blends of up to 10 % ethanol , and ethanol represented 10 % of the U.S.  गैसोलीन ईंधन सप्लाई  derived from domestic sources in 2011 .
Since 1976 the Brazilian government has made it mandatory to blend ethanol with gasoline , and since 2007 the  विधिक मिश्रण is around 25 %  ethanol and 75 % gasoline ( E25 ) .
By December 2011 Brazil had a fleet  of 14.8 लाख flex-fuel ऑटोमोबाइल और  light trucks and 1.5 million flex-fuel motorcycles that regularly use neat ethanol fuel ( known as E100 ) .
Bioethanol is a form of renewable energy that can  be उत्पादित इससे agricultural  feedstocks .
It can be  बना इससे बहुत आम फसलों  such as sugar cane , potato , manioc and corn .
There has been  considerable बहस परिचय कैसा उपयोगी  bioethanol will be in replacing gasoline .
Concerns about its production and use relate to increased food prices due to the large amount of arable land required for  फसलों , as खूब as the उर्जा और प्रदूषण  balance of the whole cycle of ethanol production , especially from corn .
Recent developments with cellulosic ethanol production and commercialization  may allay कुछ of ये चिंताएं  .
Cellulosic  इथेनॉल offers वादा क्युकी cellulose मछली , a प्रमुख और सार्वभौमिक  component in plant cells walls , can be used to produce ethanol .
According to  the अंतरराष्ट्रीय उर्जा एजेंसी , cellulosic इथेनॉल could allow  ethanol fuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously thought .
Saab 9-3 SportCombi  biopower  .
The second E85 flexifuel model  introduced by  Saab in the Swedish market .
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo assassination and steps of Gavrilo Princip ( image taken in 1987 , before  कदम यहूद removed in 1992  and plaque changed from Cyrillic to Latin script )
A plaque commemorating the location of the Sarajevo  हत्या  ( image taken in 2009 )
On 28 June 1914 ,  archduke फ्रांज फर्डिनेंड  of Austria , heir presumptive to the Austro-Hungarian throne , and his wife , Sophie , Duchess of Hohenberg , were shot dead in Sarajevo , by Gavrilo Princip , one of a group of six Bosnian Serb assassins coordinated by Danilo Ilić .
The political objective of the assassination was to break off Austria-Hungary 's south-Slav provinces so they could be combined into a Greater Serbia  or a  Yugoslavia .
The assassins ' motives were  सतत साथ the गति  that later became known as Young Bosnia .
Serbian military  अधिकारियों  stood behind the attack .
At the top of these Serbian military conspirators was Chief of Serbian Military Intelligence Dragutin  dimitrijević  , his righthand man Major Vojislav Tankosić , and Masterspy Rade Malobabić .
Major Tankosić armed the assassins with bombs and pistols and   trained them .
The assassins were given access to  the वही clandestine टनल of safe-houses और एजेंटों कि rade malobabić  used for the infiltration of weapons and operatives into Austria-Hungary .
The assassins , the  कुंजी सदस्यों of the clandestine  tunnel , and the key Serbian military conspirators who were still alive were arrested , tried , convicted and punished .
Those who were arrested in Bosnia were  आजमाया in साराजेवो in अक्तूबर  1914 .
The other conspirators were arrested and tried before a Serbian kangaroo court on the French-controlled Salonika Front in 1916–1917 on unrelated false charges ; Serbia  चलाया तीन of the शीर्ष सैन्य षड्यंत्रकारियों  .
Much of what is known about the assassinations comes from these two trials and  सम्बन्धित रिकॉर्ड  .
Assignment of responsibility for the bombing and murders of 28 June is highly controversial because the attack led to the outbreak of World War I one month   later .
Renée Kathleen  zellweger ( born अप्रैल 25 ,  1969 ) is an American actress and producer .
Zellweger first gained widespread attention for her role in the film Jerry Maguire ( 1996 ) , and subsequently received two nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actress for her roles as Bridget Jones in the comedy Bridget Jones 's Diary ( 2001 ) , and as Roxie Hart in the musical  शिकागो ( 2002  ) .
She won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her  प्रदर्शन in the नाटक ठंडा  Mountain ( 2003 ) .
She has won an Academy Award , three  सुनहरी ग्लोब पुरस्कार , तीन  Screen Actors Guild Awards , and a BAFTA Award ; was named Hasty Pudding 's Woman of the Year in 2009 ; and established herself as one of the highest-paid Hollywood actresses as of 2007 .
The ossicles ( also called auditory ossicles ) are the three smallest  हड्डियों in the इंसान देह ,  the malleus , the incus and the stapes .
They are contained within the middle ear space and  serve to संचारण ध्वनि इससे the  air to the fluid-filled labyrinth ( cochlea ) .
The absence  of the auditory  ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss .
The term `` ossicles '' literally means `` tiny bones ''  और commonly refers to the auditory  ossicles , though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body .
The New Covenant ( Hebrew • • — Greek • • diatheke  kaine ) is a biblical  interpretation originally derived from a phrase in the Book of Jeremiah , in the Hebrew Scriptures .
It is often  विचार of as an eschatological  Messianic Age or world to come and is related to the biblical concept of the Kingdom of God .
Generally , Christians believe that the New Covenant was  instituted at the पिछला भोजन as भाग of the eucharist , जिससे  in the Gospel of John includes the New Commandment .
There are several Christian eschatologies that further define the New Covenant , as an example an inaugurated eschatology defines and describes the New Covenant as an ongoing relationship between Christian believers and God that will be in full fruition after the Second  coming of मसीह ; कि is , it होगा  not only be in full fruition in believing hearts , but in the future external world as well .
The connection between the Blood of Christ and the New Covenant is seen in  सबसे आधुनिक अंग्रेज़ी अनुवाद  of the New Testament with the saying : `` this cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood '' .
Christians believe that Jesus is the mediator of the New Covenant , and that the Blood of Christ shed at his  crucifixion is the जरूरी रक्त of the वचन  .
As with all covenants between God and man described in the Bible , the New Covenant is  माना `` a बंध in रक्त sovereignly  administered by God . ''
It has been theorized that the New Covenant is the Law of Christ as spoken during  उसके उपदेश on the  Mount .
The following List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the President  of the संयुक्त राज्य दस्तावेज़ the सबसे  prominent cases of each presidency .
As granted by the Constitution (  आलेख ii , खण्ड 2 , clause 1 ) , राष्ट्रपतियों have the शक्ति to ग्रान्ट दया in एक or अधिक of the  following ways : the ability to grant a full pardon , to commute a sentence , or to rescind a fine .
U.S. Presidents have no power to  ग्रान्ट दया लिये  crimes prosecuted under state law .
As to the difference between a pardon and a  commutation:
A pardon is  an कार्यपालिका  order vacating a conviction .
A commutation is the mitigation of the sentence of someone currently serving a sentence for a crime pursuant to a  conviction , बगैर vacating the conviction  itself .
Approximately 20,000 pardons and clemencies were issued by U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों  in the 20th century alone .
The  रिकॉर्ड of अधिनियमों  of clemency were public until 1934 .
In 1981 the Office  of the pardon attorney  was created and records from President H. W. Bush forward are now listed .
This  सूची शामिल  pardons and commutations .
Tampa ( ) is a city in the U.S. state  of फ्लोरिडा  .
It serves as the county seat for Hillsborough County and is located  on the वेस्ट coast of  Florida , on Tampa Bay near the Gulf of Mexico .
The population of Tampa in 2011 was  346,037  .
the वर्तमान स्थान of tampa थी एकबार inhabited by स्वदेशी peoples of the  Safety Harbor culture , most notably the Tocobaga and the Pohoy , who lived along the shores of Tampa Bay .
It was briefly explored by Spanish explorers in the early 16th century , but there were no  स्थाई अमरीकी or यूरोपीय settlements भीतर  today 's city limits until after the United States had acquired Florida from Spain in 1819 .
In 1824 , the United States Army  स्थापित a frontier चौकी  called Fort Brooke at the mouth of the Hillsborough River , near the site of today 's Tampa Convention Center .
The first  civilian निवासियों यहूद pioneers जो  settled near the fort for protection from the nearby Seminole population .
The town grew slowly until the 1880s , when railroad links , the discovery of phosphate , and the arrival of the cigar industry jump-started  tampa 's विकास और helped it to grow into  an important city by the early 1900s .
आज , tampa is  a part of the metropolitan area most commonly referred to as the Tampa Bay Area .
For U.S. Census purposes , Tampa is part of the Tampa-St.  petersburg-clearwater , फ्लोरिडा महानगर  Statistical Area .
The four-county area is composed of roughly 2.7 million residents , making it the second largest  महानगर सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ( एमएसए ) in the राज्य , और the चौथी largest in the  Southeastern United States , behind Miami , Washington , D.C. , and Atlanta .
The Greater Tampa Bay area has just over 4  लाख निवासियों और generally शामिल  the Tampa and Sarasota metro areas .
The Tampa Bay Partnership  और u.S. जनसांख्यिकी आंकड़ा दिखाया an औसत सालाना विकास of 2.47 प्रतिशत  , or a gain of approximately 97,000 residents per year .
Between 2000 and 2006 , the  वृहद tampa खाड़ी मार्केट अनुभवी a संयुक्त विकास रेट of  14.8 percent , growing from 3.4 million to 3.9 million and hitting the 4 million people mark on April 1 , 2007 .
A 2012 estimate shows the Tampa Bay area population to have  4,310,524 लोगों और a 2017  projection of 4,536,854 people .
Tampa has a number of sports teams , such as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the National  फ़ुटबॉल  League , the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League , and the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League .
The Tampa Bay Rays in Major League Baseball and the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the North American  सॉकर लीग खेल उनके घर  games in neighboring St. Petersburg , Florida .
In 2008 , Tampa was ranked as the  5th बेहतरीन बाहरी  city by Forbes .
A 2004 survey by the  nyu समाचारपत्र  Washington Square News ranked Tampa as a top city for `` twenty-somethings . ''
Tampa is now ranked as a `` Gamma '' world city by  loughborough विश्वविद्यालयों  .
According to  loughborough , tampa बाँधने alongside अन्य संसार  cities such as Phoenix , Santo Domingo , and Osaka .
In recent years Tampa has seen a notable upsurge in  high-market माँग इससे उपभोक्ता , signaling अधिक  wealth concentrated in the area .
Tampa  hosted the  2012 Republican National Convention .
The Chevrolet Cavalier  थी a कॉम्पैक्ट ऑटोमोबाइल उत्पादित  from 1982 to 2005 by General Motors .
निर्मित on the कम्पनी 's  J platform , the Cavalier produced the highest sales in 1984 .
AT & T Mobility LLC branded and  referred to as at & t ( formerly cingular बेतार llc ) , is a wholly स्वामित्व  subsidiary of AT & T Inc. that provides wireless services to 107 million subscribers in the United States , including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands .
AT & T Mobility is the second largest wireless telecommunications provider in the United States and Puerto Rico , behind  verizon बेतार , जिससे serves 115.78 लाख ग्राहक as of the  fourth quarter of 2012 .
AT & T Mobility  is headquartered in  the Lenox Park area of DeKalb Co. Georgia , just outside Atlanta .
originally cingular बेतार llc इससे 2000 to 2007 , a संयुक्त venture  between SBC Communications and BellSouth , the company acquired the old AT & T Wireless in 2004 ; SBC later acquired the original AT & T and re-branded as `` AT & T '' .
Cingular  became wholly  owned by AT & T in December 2006 as a result of AT & T 's acquisition of BellSouth .
In January 2007 ,  cingular पुष्टि it होता  re-brand itself under the AT & T name .
हालांकि the विधिक कॉरपोरेट नाम बदलें occurred तत्काल , लिये दोनो नियामक और brand-awareness कारण दोनो ब्रांड्स यहूद प्रयुक्त in the कम्पनी 's साइनेज और विज्ञापन दौरान a परिवर्तन काल .
The transition  concluded in लेट  June , just prior to the rollout of the Apple iPhone .
On March 20 , 2011 , AT & T Mobility announced its intention to acquire T-Mobile USA  इससे डॉयचे  Telekom for $ 39 billion .
If it had received  सरकारी और  regulatory approval , AT & T would have had more than 130 million subscribers .
However , the U.S. Department of Justice , the Federal Communications Commission , and AT & T Mobility 's competitors ( such as Sprint  nextel ) opposed the मूव on the grounds कि it होता reduce  competition in the cellular communications market .
In December 2011 , in the face of both governmental and widespread  उपभोक्ता विपक्ष  , AT & T withdrew their offer to complete the merger .
Martin Luther King , Jr. (  जनवरी 15 , 1929 – अप्रैल 4 , 1968 )  was an American clergyman , activist , and leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement .
He is best known for his role in the advancement of civil rights using  nonviolent सिविल disobedience  .
King has become a  नेशनल प्रतीक  in the history of American progressivism .
A  बैपटिस्ट मंत्री , किंग  became a civil rights activist early in his career .
He led the 1955 Montgomery Bus Boycott and helped  मिला the दक्षिणी ईसाई नेतृत्व  Conference ( SCLC ) in 1957 , serving as its first president .
With the SCLC , King led an unsuccessful struggle against segregation in Albany , Georgia , in 1962 ,  और व्यवस्थित nonviolent विरोध in बर्मिंघम , अलबामा , कि  attracted national attention following television news coverage of the brutal police response .
King also helped to organize the 1963 March  on वॉशिंगटन , जहाँ  he delivered his `` I Have a Dream `` speech .
वहीँ , he स्थापित  his reputation as one of the greatest orators in American history .
He also established his reputation as a radical , and became an  ऑब्जेक्ट of the संघीय ब्यूरो of छानबीन  's COINTELPRO for the rest of his life .
FBI agents investigated him for possible communist ties , recorded his extramarital liaisons and reported on them to government officials , and on one occasion , mailed King a threatening anonymous  अक्षर कि he interpreted as an attempt to मेक उसे कमिट आत्महत्या  .
On October 14 , 1964 , King received the  नोबेल सलाम पुरस्कार लिये combating जातिगत  inequality through nonviolence .
In 1965 , he and the SCLC helped to organize the Selma to Montgomery marches and the  following साल , he took the गति  north to Chicago .
In the final years of  उसके जीवन , किंग विस्तारित उसके फ़ोकस to शामिल गरीबी  and the Vietnam War , alienating many of his liberal allies with a 1967 speech titled `` Beyond Vietnam '' .
King was planning a national  occupation of वॉशिंगटन  , D.C. , called the Poor People 's Campaign .
King  थी assassinated on अप्रैल 4  , 1968 , in Memphis , Tennessee .
His death was followed by riots in many U.S.  शहरों  .
Allegations that James Earl Ray , the man convicted of killing King ,  था महरूम framed or acted in कॉन्सर्ट साथ सरकारी एजेंटों persisted लिये दशकों  after the shooting , and the jury of a 1999 civil trial found Loyd Jowers to be complicit in a conspiracy against King .
King was awarded the  अध्यक्षीय पदक  of Freedom and the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously .
Martin Luther King , Jr.  दिन  was established as a U.S. federal holiday in 1986 .
Hundreds of streets in the U.S.  have महरूम renamed  in his honor .
A memorial statue on the National Mall was opened to the public  in  2011 .
The tiger ( Panthera tigris ) is  the largest बिल्ली प्रजाति , reaching a कुल  body length of up to and weighing up to .
It is the third largest land carnivore ( behind only the  ध्रुवीय भालू और the  brown bear ) .
Its most recognizable feature is a pattern of dark vertical stripes  on reddish-orange फर  with a lighter underside .
It has exceptionally stout  दांत , और the canines  are the longest among living felids with a crown height of as much as or even .
In zoos , tigers have lived for 20 to 26 years , which  भी seems to be उनके  longevity in the wild .
They are territorial and generally solitary but social animals , often  requiring विशाल संलग्न क्षेत्रों of आवास  that support their prey requirements .
This , coupled with the fact that they are indigenous to some of the more densely populated places on Earth  , रै caused significant विरोध साथ  humans .
Tigers once ranged widely across Asia , from  तुर्कों in the वेस्ट to the पूर्वी coast  of Russia .
Over the past 100 years , they have lost 93 % of their historic range , and have been extirpated from southwest and central Asia , from the islands of Java and Bali , and from large areas of  southeast और  Eastern Asia .
Today , they range from the Siberian  ताइगा to खोलें grasslands  and tropical mangrove swamps .
The remaining  छह बाघ subspecies  have been classified as endangered by IUCN .
The global population in the wild is estimated to number between 3,062 and 3,948 individuals , down from around 100,000 at the start of the 20th century , with most  बाकी populations occurring in छोटी pockets  isolated from each other .
Major reasons for population decline include habitat destruction , habitat fragmentation and  poaching .
The extent of area occupied by tigers is  अनुमानित at कम than , a 41  % decline from the area estimated in the mid-1990s .
Tigers are among the most recognisable  और लोकप्रिय of the संसार  's charismatic megafauna .
They have featured  prominently in प्राचीन mythology और लोकगीत  , and continue to be depicted in modern films and literature .
Tigers appear on many flags , coats of  बाहें  , and as mascots for sporting teams .
the बंगाल बाघ is the  national animal of both India and Bangladesh .
The simplified  आतंरिक ढांचा  of a chloroplast
Overview of the  calvin साईकिल और कार्बन  fixation
The  light-independent प्रतिक्रियाएँ of photosynthesis हैं  chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These  प्रतिक्रियाएँ occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled  area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
ये प्रतिक्रियाएँ लो the light-dependent  reactions and perform further chemical processes on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon  fixation , कटौती प्रतिक्रियाएँ  , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
Despite its name , this process  occurs तभी जब लाइट is  available .
Plants do not carry out the Calvin  साईकिल by रात्रि  .
They ,  बजाय , रिलीज sucrose  into the phloem from their starch reserves .
This  प्रक्रम happens जब लाइट is उपलब्धियाँ स्वतंत्र of the दयालु of photosynthesis  ( C3 carbon fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
A  लिनेन रूमाल साथ खींचा लड़ी  embroidery around the edges
Linen cloth recovered from Qumran Cave 1  निकट the मुर्दे समुद्र  .
Linen ( ) is a textile made from the fibers  of the flax संयंत्र , linum usitatissimum  .
Linen is labor-intensive to manufacture , but when it  is बना into garments , it is valued  for its exceptional coolness and freshness in hot weather .
The word `` linen '' is of West Germanic origin and cognates with  the लैटिन नाम लिये the flax संयंत्र linum , और the पहले  Greek λινόν ( linon ) .
This word history has  दिए वृद्धि to a क्रमांक of अन्य शर्तें in अंग्रेज़ी , the सबसे notable of  which is the English word line , derived from the use of a linen ( flax ) thread to determine a straight line .
Textiles in a  लिनेन बुनते बनावट , भी जब बना  of cotton , hemp and other non-flax fibers are also loosely referred to as `` linen '' .
Such fabrics  generally have उनके अपना विशिष्ट names  other than linen ; for example , fine cotton yarn in a linen-style weave is called Madapolam .
The collective term `` linens `` is still often used generically  to describe a क्लास of woven और भी knitted bed , नहाना  , table and kitchen textiles .
The name linens is retained because  traditionally , लिनेन थी प्रयुक्त लिये  many of these items .
In the past , the word `` linens '' was also used to mean lightweight undergarments such as shirts , chemises , waistshirts , lingerie ( a word also  cognate साथ लिनेन ) , और detachable कमीज़ छल्लों और cuffs , जिससे यहूद historically  made almost exclusively out of linen .
The inside cloth layer of fine composite clothing garments ( as for example jackets  ) थी traditionally बना of लिनेन , और  this is the origin of the word lining .
Linen textiles appear  to be कुछ of the oldest in the संसार  : their history goes back many thousands of years .
Fragments of straw , seeds ,  मछली , yarns , और विभिन्न प्रकार of fabrics  which date back to about 8000 BC have been found in Swiss lake dwellings .
Dyed  flax मछली मिला in a प्रागैतिहासिक  cave in Georgia suggest the use of woven linen fabrics from wild flax may date back even earlier to 36,000 BP .
Linen was  sometimes  used as currency in ancient Egypt .
Egyptian mummies were  लपेटा in लिनेन क्युकी  it was seen as a symbol of light and purity , and as a display of wealth .
Some of  ये fabrics ,  woven from hand spun yarns , were very fine for their day , but are coarse compared to modern linen .
Today , linen is usually an expensive textile , and is produced in  अपेक्षाकृत छोटी quantities  .
It  रै a long `` स्टेपल '' ( व्यक्तिगत रेशा  length ) relative to cotton and other natural fibers .
Many products are made of linen : aprons , bags  , तौलिये ( swimmers , नहाना , बीच , देह और  wash towels ) , napkins , bed linens , linen tablecloths , runners , chair covers , and men 's & women 's wear .
The FIFA World Cup , often simply the World Cup , is an international association football competition contested by the senior men 's national teams of  the सदस्यों of fédération internationale de  Football Association ( FIFA ) , the sport 's global governing body .
the चैंपियनशिप रै महरूम awarded  every four years since the inaugural tournament in 1930 , except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not held because of the Second World War .
The  वर्तमान champions हैं  Spain , who won the 2010 tournament .
The current format of the tournament involves 32 teams competing for the title at venues within the host nation  ( s ) over a काल of परिचय a माह ; इस  phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
A qualification phase , which currently takes place  over the preceding तीन सालो , is प्रयुक्त  to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The 19 World Cup tournaments have  महरूम जीती by आठ अलग  national teams .
Brazil have won five times , and they are the only team to have played  in प्रत्येक  tournament .
The other World Cup winners are Italy ,  साथ चार शीर्षक ; जर्मनी , साथ तीन शीर्षक ; अर्जेंटीना और  inaugural winners Uruguay , with two titles each ; and England , France , and Spain , with one title each .
The World Cup is  the संसार 's सबसे widely viewed sporting इवेंट  ; an estimated 715.1 million people watched the final match of the 2006 FIFA World Cup held in Germany .
The next three World  cups होगा be hosted by ब्राज़ील  in 2014 , Russia in 2018 , and Qatar in 2022 .
The is an expansion device for the Wii Remote video game controller for  the वी कि  allows it to more accurately capture complex motion .
According to Nintendo , the sensor in the device supplements the accelerometer and Sensor Bar capabilities of the Wii Remote to enable actions to be rendered identically on the  स्क्रीन in  real time .
The Wii 's successor console , the Wii U ,  supports the वी motionplus  and its peripherals in games where use of its touchscreen-built-in primary controller is not necessary .
Majulah  singapura ( onward  Singapore ) is the national anthem of Singapore .
Composed by Zubir Said in 1958 as a theme song  लिये आधिकारिक कृत्यों of the नगर परिषद of सिंगापुर , the सोंग  was selected in 1959 as the island 's anthem when it attained self-government .
upon पूरा स्वतंत्रता  in 1965 , Majulah Singapura was formally adopted as Singapore 's national anthem .
By law the anthem  may तभी be सुंग साथ इसके असली मलय गीत , हालांकि  there exist authorized translations of the lyrics of the anthem in Singapore 's three other official languages : English , Mandarin and Tamil .
Originally  रचित in the कुंजी of g प्रमुख , in 2001 the नेशनल गान  was officially relaunched in the lower key of F major as this was said to allow for a `` grander and more inspiring arrangement '' .
The national anthem is regularly performed or sung in schools and armed  शक्तियां शिविरों at ceremonies आयोजित at the शुरूआत and/or the समाप्त of प्रत्येक  day , during which the national flag is also raised and lowered and the national pledge is taken .
Singaporeans are especially encouraged to sing the national anthem on occasions of national celebration or national significance such as at the National Day Parade , at National Day observance ceremonies conducted by educational institutions and government  विभाग , और at sporting कार्यक्रम  at which Singapore teams are participating .
An  expedition 's shipwrights  building a brigantine , 1541 .
Shipbuilding is the  निर्माण  of ships and floating vessels .
It normally takes  प्लेस in a specialized  facility known as a shipyard .
Shipbuilders , also called shipwrights , follow a specialized occupation that traces  its  roots to before recorded history .
Shipbuilding and ship  मरम्मत , दोनो वाणिज्यिक  and military , are referred to as `` naval engineering '' .
The construction of boats is a similar activity called  नाव भवन  .
The dismantling  of जहाजों is  called ship breaking .
Wakonda is a town in Clay County ,  दक्षिण डकोटा  , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  321 at the 2010 census .
The  following is a सूची of the सबसे  populous incorporated places of the United States of America .
As  पारिभाषित by  the United States Census Bureau , an `` incorporated place `` includes a variety of designations , including city , town , village , borough , and municipality .
A few exceptional Census Designated Places ( CDPs ) are also  शामिल in the जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो  's listing of incorporated places .
Consolidated city-counties represent a distinct type of government that includes the entire  जनसांख्यिकी of a काउंटी , or काउंटी समतुल्य  .
Some consolidated  city-counties  , however , include multiple incorporated places .
This list presents only that portion ( or `` balance ''  ) of ऐसे संचित city-counties कि  are not a part of another incorporated place .
Note that this list refers only to the population of individual  municipalities भीतर उनके पारिभाषित हद , जिससे करता नहीं शामिल अन्य  municipalities or unincorporated suburban areas within urban agglomerations .
A  अलग  ranking is evident when considering U.S. metropolitan area populations .
alt=larger flashcart  , shown with small card and U.S. quarter for size
Nintendo DS storage devices are devices used to store a licensed developer 's work-in-progress images , homebrew  वीडियो खेल और डाउनलोड वाणिज्यिक  games ( since the Nintendo DS is not sold with a rewritable storage medium ) .
Licensed developers , however , can use a blue Intelligent Systems Nitro Emulator box to  फ्लैश ताश  .
ये डिवाइस  are also known as `` flashcarts '' or `` flashcards '' .
There are two main classes of  flashcarts : पुरानी डिवाइस जिससे अनुरूप in  Slot-2 ( the Game Boy Advance Game Pak slot ) and newer devices that fit in Slot-1 ( the DS Game Card slot ) .
Slot-2 ( or first-generation ) devices have been historically cheaper due to economies of scale ( inherited from their use with Game Boy Advance ) , but require a  booting औजार in slot-1 in अनुक्रम  to use the touch screen and other DS features .
Second-generation devices ( those which only use Slot-1 ) do not work with GBA homebrew , but became less expensive and easier to use  , rivaling अनेक slot-2 डिवाइस  in price .
First-generation devices  शामिल gba फ्लैश कारतूस  , GBAMP CF , SuperCard , and M3 .
second-generation डिवाइस शामिल r4 क्रान्ति  , CycloDS , G6 Real and DS-X .
The storage device either contains flash memory or a slot for a memory  कार्ड to स्टोर homebrew  .
Storage devices with a memory-card slot usually  have अधिक भंडार क्षमता  than flash-memory devices .
Although flash-memory capacity is usually measured in  megabits ( mb ) , memory-card क्षमता is प्रायः measured in मेगाबाइट  ( MB ) ( where 8 Mb is 1 MB ) .
Storage-device brands differ in their support for homebrew ; DS and  खेल लड़के अग्रिम roms ;  special features ( such as ability to play media files ) ; physical size and cost .
Strictly speaking , a storage device is not  जरुरी लिये  DS with FlashMe installed because homebrew can be sent to the DS using WMB .
However , this is not an  easily-portable  method because the DS needs to be within range of a suitable Wi-Fi card .
are American  लोगों of  Japanese heritage .
Japanese  अमेरिकी have historically महरूम among the तीन largest एशियाई  American communities , but in recent decades , it has become the sixth largest group at roughly 1,304,286 , including those of mixed-race or mixed-ethnicity .
In the 2010 census , the largest Japanese American communities were found in  कैलिफ़ोर्निया साथ 272,528 , हवाई साथ 185,502 , नई  York with 37,780 , Washington with 35,008 , and Illinois with 17,542 .
Southern California has the largest Japanese-American population in  उत्तर अमेरिका .
200px
This is a comprehensive listing which highlights significant  उपलब्धियाँ और माइलस्टोन आधारित upon बिलबोर्ड  magazine 's singles charts , most notably the Billboard Hot 100 .
इस सूची spans इससे  the issue dated January 1 , 1955 to present .
The Billboard Hot 100  began साथ the समस्या दिनाँक अगस्त 4 , 1958 , और is फिलहाल the मानक  popular music chart in the United States .
Prior to the creation of the Hot 100 ,  बिलबोर्ड प्रकाशित  four singles charts : `` Best Sellers in Stores '' , `` Most Played by Jockeys '' , `` Most Played in Jukeboxes '' and `` The Top 100 '' .
These charts , which ranged from 20 to 100 slots ,  यहूद phased आउट at अलग  times between 1957 and 1958 .
Though technically not part of the Hot  100 चार्ट इतिहास , उनके आंकड़ा is शामिल लिये  computational purposes , and to avoid unenlightening or misleading characterizations .
All items  सूचीबद्ध नीचे हैं इससे the hot 100 era  , unless otherwise noted ( pre-Hot 100 charts ) .
V is an American science fiction television series that ran for  दो सीज़न on एबीसी , इससे नवम्बर  3 , 2009 to March 15 , 2011 .
A remake of the 1983 miniseries created by Kenneth Johnson , the new  श्रेणी क्रॉनिकल्स the आगमन on धरती of a technologically उन्नत एलियन प्रजाति जिससे ostensibly आता  in peace , but actually has sinister motives .
V stars  मुरैना baccarin , lourdes benedicto , मॉरिस  Chestnut , Joel Gretsch , Logan Huffman , Charles Mesure , Elizabeth Mitchell , Laura Vandervoort and Scott Wolf , and was executive produced by Scott Rosenbaum , Yves Simoneau , Scott Peters , and Jace Hall .
The series was produced by The Scott Peters Company ,  hdfilms और warner भाईs.  Television .
geocaching is an बाहरी recreational कार्यकलाप , in जिससे the भागीदार उपयोग  a Global Positioning System ( GPS ) receiver or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers , called `` geocaches '' or `` caches '' , anywhere in the world .
A typical cache  is a छोटी waterproof संग्राहक containing  a logbook where the geocacher enters the date they found it and signs it with their established code name .
After signing into the log , the cache  जरूर be लगाई वापस exactly  where the person found it .
Larger containers such as plastic storage containers (  tupperware or समान ) or ammunition  boxes can also contain items for trading , usually toys or trinkets of little value .
Geocaching shares many aspects with benchmarking ,  trigpointing , orienteering , treasure-hunting  , letterboxing , and waymarking .
Boogie Down  प्रोडक्शन्स थी  a hip hop group that was originally composed of KRS-One , D-Nice , and DJ Scott La Rock .
DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on August 27 , 1987 ,  महीने बाद the रिलीज of bdp 's डेब्यू  album , Criminal Minded .
The  नाम of the समूह , बोगी bas , गर्भाशयी  from a nickname for the South Bronx section of The Bronx , one of the five boroughs of New York City .
The group pioneered the fusion of dancehall reggae and hip hop music and their debut LP Criminal Minded contained frank descriptions of life in  the दक्षिण bronx of the लेट 1980s यूँ सेटिंग the स्टेज  for what would eventually become gangsta rap .
A municipal bond  is a बंध जारी by  a local government , or their agencies .
Potential issuers of municipal bonds include states , cities ,  काउंटी , redevelopment एजेंसियों , special-purpose जिले , स्कूल जिले , पब्लिक यूटिलिटी  districts , publicly owned airports and seaports , and any other governmental entity ( or group of governments ) at or below the state level .
Municipal  bonds may be सामान्य दायित्वों of  the issuer or secured by specified revenues .
In  the संयुक्त राज्य , ब्याज आय प्राप्त by धारकों of नगरपालिका bonds  is often exempt from the federal income tax and from the income tax of the state in which they are issued , although municipal bonds issued for certain purposes may not be tax exempt .
Unlike new issue stocks that are brought to market with price restrictions until the deal is sold ,  नगरपालिका bonds हैं फ़्री to व्यापार at कोई समय एकबार वे हैं खरीदा  by the investor .
Professional traders regularly trade and retrade the same  bonds अनेक टाइम्स  a week .
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' is a song written by Steve Winwood , Spencer Davis and Muff  winwood , और originally  performed by The Spencer Davis Group .
The basic riff of the song was borrowed from the Homer Banks song `` (  ai n't कि ) a लॉट of  Love '' , written by Banks and Willie Dean `` Deanie '' Parker .
`` Gim me Some Lovin ' '' was a UK # 2 in the Autumn of  1966 और a us  # 7 .
The song is ranked # 247 on the Rolling Stone magazine 's list of  the 500  Greatest Songs of All Time .
The  संस्करण जारी in the uk ( और संभवतः सबसे of यूरोपीय  ) is different from that issued in the US on the United Artists label , being slower , and lacking the backing vocals and `` live sounding '' performance found on the US single .
( The US  संस्करण रै अधिक प्रायः  been used on reissue CDs , even those coming from Europe . )
The single  सुविधाएँ the ध्वनि of  the Hammond B-3 organ .
The Internet Movie Database ( IMDb ) is an online database of information related to films , television  कार्यक्रम , और वीडियो खेल .
This includes actors , production crew  कर्मियों , और fictional वर्ण प्रदर्शित  in these three visual entertainment media .
It is one of the most  लोकप्रिय ऑनलाइन entertainment  destinations , with over 100 million unique users each month and a solid and rapidly growing mobile presence .
IMDb was  शुभारम्भ on अक्तूबर 17 , 1990  , and in 1998 was acquired by Amazon.com .
As of April 27 , 2013 , IMDb had 2,503,783  शीर्षक ( शामिल एपीसोड ) और 5,192,493 personalities  in its database , as well as 43 million registered users .
The website has an Alexa  रैंक  of 48 .
Fibre Channel Host Bus Adapter (  64-bit pci-x कार्ड  )
SCSI  मेजबान बस एडाप्टर  ( 16-bit ISA card )
In computer hardware , a host controller ,  मेजबान एडाप्टर , or मेजबान बस एडाप्टर ( hba ) connects a मेजबान प्रणाली  ( the computer ) to other network and storage devices .
The terms are primarily used to refer to  डिवाइस लिये connecting  SCSI , Fibre Channel and eSATA devices .
However , devices for connecting to IDE , Ethernet , FireWire , USB and other systems may also  be पुकारा  host adapters .
Recently , the advent of iSCSI and Fibre Channel over Ethernet has  brought परिचय ईथरनेट hbas , जिससे हैं अलग  from Ethernet NICs in that they include TCP Offload Engines .
There are also converged HBAs that support both Ethernet and Fibre  चैनल पुकारा converged संजाल adapters  ( CNAs ) .
cashmere स्कार्फ
Modern men  's cashmere sweaters  for sale .
Cashmere wool , usually simply known as cashmere , is a fiber obtained  इससे cashmere बकरियों और अन्य प्रकार of बकरी .
the शब्द cashmere गर्भाशयी  from an old spelling of Kashmir .
Cashmere  is ठीक in बनावट  , strong , light , and soft .
Garments made from it provide  बेहतरीन इन्सुलेशन  .
In the United States , under the U.S . Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 ,  as amended , ( 15 uction 68b ( a ) ( 6 ) ) , राज्य  that a wool or textile product may not be labeled as containing cashmere unless:
such wool product is  the ठीक ( dehaired ) undercoat मछली  produced by a cashmere goat ( Capra hircus laniger ) ;
the average diameter of the fiber of such wool product does not exceed 19  माइक्रोन  ; and
such wool product does not contain more than 3  प्रतिशत ( by वज़न ) of cashmere मछली साथ औसत  diameters that exceed 30 microns .
The average fiber  व्यास may be विषय to a गुणांक of विभिन्नता  around the mean that shall not exceed 24 percent .
Jennifer  convertibles inc. is the मालिक और licensor of sofabed और चमड़े specialty  retail stores in the United States , with stores located throughout the Eastern seaboard , in the Midwest , on the West Coast and in the Southwest .
The company was  संस्थापित in 1975 और is आधारित in  Woodbury , New York .
On July  19 ,  2010 , the company announced that it had filed for bankruptcy as a consequence of `` substantial losses '' .
According to Furniture Today the company was number 48 among furniture retailers with US $ 114 million in sales for  the साल समाप्ति अगस्त 29 , 2009 .
It subsequently emerged from Chapter 11  अंतर्गत the कंट्रोल of इसके प्रमुख प्रदायक  , the Haining Mengnu Group .
Egg roll is a term used for many  अलग भोजन  around the world .
2__Egg_roll __ Varieties of egg  रोल्स हैं मिला in मेनलैंड चीन ,  many Chinese-speaking regions of Asia , and Chinese immigrant communities around the world .
Egg rolls as  referred to  in China .
In Guangdong and Hong Kong ,  अंडा फेंकें प्रायः  refers to biscuit roll .
This is a type of  बिस्किट  .
The  संघटक  included egg , flour and sugar .
Egg roll also is a dish in Canton and  हांग काँग , इस is  usually made with vegetable .
भीतर चीन अंडा  rolls are eaten predominantly in the southeast and are not as commonly consumed in the north and western parts of China .
In American Chinese  भोजन , an अंडा फेंकें is a savory  dish typically served as an appetizer .
It is usually  भरवां साथ मुर्गा , पोर्क or झींगा  , cabbage , carrots , tomatoes , bean sprouts and other vegetables , and then deep fried .
This variety of the egg roll is very common and popular , across even regional varieties of American Chinese food , and is  प्रायः शामिल as भाग of a `` संयोजन  platter '' .
In Montreal , Canada , open-ended eggrolls  हैं a jewish-chinese संलयन  dish .
They can be either  कोषेर certified  or merely kosher style .
Pain and suffering is the legal term for the physical and emotional  तनाव caused  from an injury ( see also pain and suffering ) .
Some damages that might be under this category would be  : aches , अस्थाई और स्थाई सीमाएं on कार्यकलाप  , potential shortening of life , depression or scarring .
When filing  a मुकदमा as a परिणाम of an चोट , it is  common for someone to seek money both in compensation for actual money that is lost and for the pain and stress associated with virtually any injury .
In a suit  , पीड़ा और  suffering is part of the `` general damages '' section of the claimant 's claim , or , alternatively , it is an element of `` compensatory '' non-economic damages that allows recovery for the mental anguish and/or physical pain endured by the claimant as a result of injury for which the plaintiff seeks redress .
Apart from money damages awarded in  विचारण , धन क्षतिपूर्ति  are also given informally outside the judicial system in mediations , arbitration ( both of which may be court annexed or non litigated claims ) as well as in routine insurance settlements .
Individual claimants or those represented  by वकील प्रायः उपस्थित मांगे to insurers  to settle for money .
ये माँग लिये bodily चोट मुआवजे  monies often set out damages that are similarly used in the court litigated pleadings .
मांगे हैं प्रायः लिखा summaries of a claimant  's medical care and the facts which resulted in the injury .
Sample of a  medallion हस्ताक्षर गारंटी  stampIn
the United  राज्य और कनाडा , a medallion हस्ताक्षर  guarantee is a special signature guarantee for the transfer of securities .
It is a guarantee by the transferring financial institution that the signature is  वास्तविक और the वित्तीय संस्था स्वीकृत  liability for any forgery .
Signature guarantees protect shareholders by  preventing अनधिकृत  transfers and possible investor losses .
They also limit the liability of the transfer agent who  स्वीकृत  the certificates .
Different institutions have different policies as to what type  of पहचान वे आवश्यकता to provide the गारंटी  and whether they charge a fee for such service ( usually nominal if any ) .
Most institutions will not guarantee a signature of  किसी जो रै नहीं already महरूम  their customer .
A medallion signature guarantee is not the same as an acknowledgment by a notary public , in the sense that a `` signature guarantee '' is a certification by the institution that the signature is authentic , and an acknowledgment is a certification by a  नोटरी पब्लिक attesting कि the signer हस्ताक्षरित a दस्तावेज़  voluntarily .
Some banks may no longer provide this service , however ,  अनेक स्टिल do as खूब as अन्य वित्तीय संस्थानों  such as a Savings and Loans and Credit Unions .
at उनके एकमात्र  discretion , these institutions may still decline to provide the Medallion Signature Guarantees .
When US citizens are abroad , some financial institutions may accept  संयुक्त राज्य दूतावास seals , in प्लेस  of the Medallion Signature Guarantee Stamp .
Pacific Electric Railway streetcars  stacked at a junkyard on टर्मिनल द्वीप , लॉस एंजिल्स  County , California , March 1956
The General Motors streetcar conspiracy ( also known as the  ग्रेट अमरीकी स्ट्रीटकार कांड ) refers  to allegations and convictions in relation to a program by General Motors ( GM ) and other companies who purchased and then dismantled streetcar and electric train systems in many American cities .
Between 1936 and 1950 , National City Lines and Pacific City Lines —with investment from GM , Firestone Tire ,  मानक आयल of कैलिफ़ोर्निया , phillips पेट्रोलियम , mack ट्रक , और the संघीय अभियान्त्रिकी corporation—bought over 100 इलेक्ट्रिक surface-traction  systems in 45 cities including Baltimore , Newark , Los Angeles , New York City , Oakland and San Diego and converted them into bus operation .
Several of the companies involved were convicted in 1949 of conspiracy to  monopolize अंतरराज्यीय कॉमर्स लकिन यहूद acquitted of conspiring to monopolize the स्वामित्व  of these companies .
Some suggest that this program played a key role in the decline of public transit in cities across the United States ; notably Edwin J. Quinby , who first drew attention to the program in 1946 , and then Bradford C. Snell ,  an anti-trust attorney लिये the संयुक्त राज्य सीनेट जिनकी विवादास्पद 1974 गवाही to a सीनेट पूछताछ  brought the issue to national awareness .
Both Quinby and Snell argued that the deliberate destruction of streetcars was  भाग of a larger रणनीति to धक्का the संयुक्त  States into automobile dependency .
Others say that independent economic factors brought about changes in the transit system , including the Great Depression , the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 , labor unrest , market forces , rapidly increasing traffic congestion , urban sprawl , taxation policies that favored private vehicle  स्वामित्व , और सामान्य enthusiasm लिये the ऑटोमोबाइल  .
One writer on the subject has suggested that  snell और अन्य गिरी into simplistic  conspiracy theory thinking , bordering on paranoid delusions saying `` Clearly , GM waged a war on electric traction .
It was indeed an all out assault , but by no means the single  कारण लिये the विफलता of  rapid transit .
Also , it is just as clear that  क्रियाएँ और inactions by सरकारी  contributed significantly to the elimination of electric traction . ''
Only a small handful of U.S. cities have surviving effective rail-based urban transport systems  आधारित on streetcars or  trams , including Newark , Philadelphia , San Francisco , Pittsburgh , and Boston ; others are re-introducing them .
The story has been explored several  टाइम्स in छपाई , फिल्मी और अन्य  media , notably in Who Framed Roger Rabbit , Taken for a Ride and The End of Suburbia .
Corwin  हाउस , सलेम , मैसाचुसेट्स  , built ca . 1660 , First Period English
American colonial architecture includes several building design styles associated with the colonial period of the United States , including First Period  अंग्रेज़ी ( late-medieval ) , फ्रेंच औपनिवेशिक , स्पेनी औपनिवेशिक , डच  Colonial and Georgian .
These styles are associated  साथ the घरों , चर्च  and government buildings of the period from about 1600 through the 19th century .
`` In the Mood '' is a big band era # 1 hit recorded by American  bandleader ग्लेन मिलर  .
It topped the charts in  1940 in the u.S.  and one year later was featured in the movie Sun Valley Serenade .
In 1999 , National Public Radio ( NPR ) included the 1939 Glenn Miller  रिकॉर्डिंग on आरसीए bluebird on the npr 100 , the सूची of `` the  100 most important American musical works of the 20th century '' .
वरुण लोगो
The NEPTUNE Canada project is the  world’s  first regional-scale underwater ocean observatory that plugs directly into the Internet .
Since December  2009 , it रै अनुमत लोगों  to `` surf '' the seafloor while ocean scientists run deep-water experiments from labs and universities around the world .
Along with its sister project , VENUS , NEPTUNE  offers a अद्वितीय  approach to ocean science .
Traditionally , ocean scientists have relied on infrequent ship  क्रूज़ or space-based satellites to carry  out their research , while the NEPTUNE project uses a remotely operated crawler .
A gramophone record , commonly known as a phonograph record ( in American English ) , vinyl record ( in reference to vinyl , the material most commonly used after  परिचय  1950 ) , or colloquially , `` a record '' , is an analog sound storage medium consisting of a flat disc with an inscribed , modulated spiral groove .
The groove  प्रायः starts निकट the  periphery and ends near the center of the disc .
Phonograph records are  generally वर्णित by उनके व्यास in इंच ( 12-inch , 10-inch , 7-inch , इत्यादि . ) , the rotational गति at जिससे  they are played ( `` 33 rpm `` , `` 78 '' , `` 45 '' , etc . ) , their time capacity ( `` long playing '' ) , their reproductive accuracy , or `` fidelity `` ( `` high fidelity '' , `` Orthophonic '' , `` full-range '' , etc . ) , and the number of channels of audio provided ( `` mono `` , `` stereo `` , `` quadraphonic `` , etc . ) .
Phonograph records were the primary medium used for music reproduction for most of the 20th century , replacing the  फोनोग्राफ बेलन , साथ जिससे it था co-existed ,  by the 1920s .
By the late  1980s , डिजिटल मीडिया था gained a  larger market share , and the vinyl record left the mainstream in 1991 .
They continue to be manufactured and sold  in the 21st सदी  .
In 2008  , nearly 2.9 लाख इकाई shipped  , the most in any year since 1998 and the format has continued to slowly regain popularity .
वे हैं विशेषकर  used by DJs and audiophiles for many types of music .
as of 2013 , विनाइल  records continue to be used for distribution .
Grassland in the Santa Rosa Plateau  , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Grassland in the Antelope  घाटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया
The  konza tallgrass  prairie in the Flint Hills of northeastern Kansas .
A grassland in the  फिलीपीन  .
An Inner  मंगोलियाई घासभूमि  in the People 's Republic of China
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses (  पोएसी ) , however sedge ( cyperaceae ) और फटाफट ( juncaceae  ) families can also be found .
grasslands occur naturally  on all continents except Antarctica .
In temperate latitudes , such as  northwestern यूरोपीय और the ग्रेट मैदान और कैलिफ़ोर्निया in उत्तर अमेरिका , देशी grasslands  are dominated by perennial bunch grass species , whereas in warmer climates annual species form a greater component of the vegetation .
grasslands हैं  found in most ecoregions of the Earth .
For example there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications ( subdivisions ) of the temperate  grasslands , savannas , और shrublands बायोम ( ' ecosystem  ' ) , which is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth 's surface .
Henna ( Lawsonia inermis , also called henna tree ) or  हिना is  a flowering plant , the sole species in the genus Lawsonia in the family Lythraceae .
The English name `` henna '' comes from the Arabic ( ALA-LC : ḥinnāʾ  / सुनाया ) or colloquially  , loosely pronounced .
The name is also used for dye preparations derived from the plant , and for the  आर्ट of अस्थाई गोदना आधारित on those dyes  .
Henna has been used since antiquity to dye skin , hair , and  fingernails , as खूब as  fabrics including Silk , wool and leather .
additionally , the नाम  is misused for other skin and hair dyes , such as black henna or neutral henna , which are not derived from the plant .
A thin film is a layer of material ranging from fractions of a nanometer ( monolayer ) to several  micrometers in मोटाई  .
Electronic semiconductor  डिवाइस और ऑप्टिकल coatings  are the main applications benefiting from thin-film construction .
A familiar application of thin films is the household mirror ,  जिससे typically रै  a thin metal coating on the back of a sheet of glass to form a reflective interface .
The process of silvering  थी एकबार commonly प्रयुक्त to  produce mirrors .
A  very-thin-film कोटिंग ( कम than  a nanometer thick ) is used to produce two-way mirrors .
the प्रदर्शन of ऑप्टिकल coatings ( e.g . antireflective , or ar , coatings  ) are typically enhanced when the thin-film coating consists of multiple layers having varying thicknesses and refractive indices .
Similarly , a periodic structure of alternating thin films of  अलग सामग्री may collectively रूप a so-called superlattice जिससे कारनामे the घटना  of quantum confinement by restricting electronic phenomena to two-dimensions .
Work is being done with ferromagnetic and  ferroelectric पतला films लिये उपयोग as  computer memory .
It is also  होने लागू  to pharmaceuticals , via thin-film drug delivery .
Thin-films are used to  उपज thin-film  batteries .
Thin films are also  प्रयुक्त in dye-sensitized  solar cells .
Ceramic  पतला films हैं  in wide use .
The relatively high hardness and inertness of ceramic materials make this type  of पतला कोटिंग of ब्याज लिये सुरक्षा of substrate सामग्री  against corrosion , oxidation and wear .
In  particular , the उपयोग of  such coatings on cutting tools can extend the life of these items by several orders of magnitude .
Research is being done on a new class of thin-film inorganic oxide materials , called amorphous heavy-metal cation multicomponent oxides , which could be used to make transparent  transistors कि  are inexpensive , stable , and environmentally benign .
Gears  of युद्ध is a सैन्य विज्ञान fiction  third-person shooter video game developed by Epic Games and published by Microsoft Game Studios .
It was initially released as an exclusive title  लिये the एक्सबॉक्स 360 in नवम्बर 2005 in उत्तर अमेरिका , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , और सबसे  of Europe and included a `` Limited Collector 's Edition '' with added content and an art book titled Destroyed Beauty that detailed much of the game 's back-story .
Despite the initial  कथन of एक्सबॉक्स 360 exclusivity , a microsoft खिड़कियाँ संस्करण of the खेल थी विकसित in संयोजन साथ  People Can Fly and released a year later , featuring new content including additional campaign levels , a new multiplayer game mode , and Games for Windows Live functionality .
The game focuses on the troops of Delta Squad as they wield a desperate , last-ditch  attempt to सहेजें the बाकी इंसान निवासियों of the fictional ग्रह sera इससे a अथक और seemingly अजेय subterranean दुश्मन  known as the Locust Horde .
The player assumes the role of  मार्कस  Fenix ( but can also play as Dominic Santiago ) , a former prisoner and war-hardened soldier .
The game  is आधारित on the उपयोग of कवर और  strategic fire for the player to advance through the scenarios ; a second player can play cooperatively through the main campaign to assist .
The game also features several online multiplayer game  मोड्स लिये up to  eight players .
Gears of War sold over three million copies in just ten weeks and was the fastest-selling video game of 2005 as well as the  second-most निभाई खेल over एक्सबॉक्स  Live during .
It currently stands as the 5th  बेहतरीन selling एक्सबॉक्स 360  game of all time .
The game has since  बेची over  five million copies by September 2008 .
The  खेल थी खूब प्राप्त by आलोचकों , जो praised  its gameplay and detailed visuals , and it won several `` Game of the Year '' awards in 2006 .
The success of the game has led to the development of the Gears of War franchise , including the 2008 sequel Gears of War 2 and its  follow-up , गियर्स of युद्ध 3 , जिससे थी released on सितंबर 20 , 2011 , बाद having initially महरूम नियत to have महरूम  released on April 5 , 2011 , the date upon which Epic Games ' Cliff Bleszinski was a guest on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon .
Adaptations to books , comics , as well  as a विशेषता फिल्मी हैं to  be expected .
A Tree Grows in  ब्रुकलीन is  a 1943 novel written by Betty Smith .
The story focuses on an Irish-American family in Williamsburg  , ब्रुकलीन  , New York City .
The novel is set in the first and second decades of the 20th  सदी  .
The  किताब थी an  immense success .
The main metaphor of the book is the hardy Tree of Heaven ,  देशी to चीन और ताईवान , अभी माना हृदयरोग , और  common in the vacant lots of New York City .
World map with the  intertropical  zone highlighted in red .
Tropical climate zones of the Earth where all twelve months have mean  temperatures ऊपर 18 °c ( 64  °F ) .
The  ऊष्णकटिबन्ध  is a region of the Earth surrounding the Equator .
It  is सीमित in अक्षांश by the tropic of कर्कट in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध  at approximately N and the Tropic of Capricorn in the southern hemisphere at S ; these latitudes correspond to the axial tilt of the Earth .
The tropics are also referred to as the tropical zone and  the torrid मण्डल ( देखिए भौगोलिक मण्डल  ) .
The tropics include all the areas on the Earth where the Sun reaches a point directly overhead  at तनिक एकबार दौरान the सौर साल  .
The tropics are distinguished from the other climatic and biomatic regions of Earth , the middle latitudes  और the ध्रुवीय regions on either पक्ष of the  equatorial zone .
For the INXS song ,  देखिए कया तुम need  ( song ) .
`` What You Need  '' is an एपीसोड of the अमरीकी  television anthology series The Twilight Zone .
It is based on the short  स्टोरी of the वही नाम by लुईस padgett  ( Henry Kuttner and C. L. Moore ) .
PlayhouseSquare , in the Cleveland Theater District in downtown Cleveland , Ohio , is the second-largest theater complex in the United States , second only  to  New York City 's Lincoln Center ) .
Constructed in a span of 19 months in the early 1920s , the theaters were subsequently closed down , but were  revived through a grassroots प्रयत्न  .
Their renovation and reopening helped usher  in a नई era of शहर पुनरोद्धार in क्लीवलैंड , और थी  called `` one of the top ten successes in Cleveland history . ''
The driver and  यात्री सामने airbags ,  after having been deployed , in a British Peugeot 306 car .
An airbag is a vehicle  सुरक्षा यंत्र  .
It is an occupant  संयम  system consisting of a flexible fabric envelope or cushion designed to inflate rapidly during an automobile collision .
Its purpose is to cushion  occupants दौरान a क्रैश और provide सुरक्षा to उनके  bodies when they strike interior objects such as the steering wheel or a window .
Modern vehicles may contain multiple airbag modules in various side and frontal locations of the passenger seating positions , and sensors may deploy one or more airbags in an impact zone at variable  दरों आधारित on the प्रकार , कोण और गंभीरता of प्रभाव ; the एयरबैग is designed to तभी  inflate in moderate to severe frontal crashes .
Airbags are normally designed with the intention of supplementing the protection of an occupant who is  correctly  restrained with a seatbelt .
Most designs are inflated through pyrotechnic  अर्थात् और can तभी be संचालित  once .
Newer  side-impact एयरबैग मौड्यूल consist of संपीडित  air cylinders that are triggered in the event of a side impact vehicle impact .
The first commercial designs were introduced in passenger  ऑटोमोबाइल दौरान the 1970s साथ सीमित कामयाबी  .
Broad commercial adoption of airbags occurred in many markets during  the लेट 1980s और जल्दी 1990s साथ a ड्राइवर एयरबैग , और a सामने  passenger airbag as well on some cars ; and many modern vehicles now include four or more units .
IRS tax forms are used for taxpayers and tax-exempt organizations to report financial  सूचना to the आतंरिक आय सेवा ( irs )  of the United States .
They are used to report income , calculate taxes to be  सशुल्क to the  federal government of the United States , and disclose other information as required by the Internal Revenue Code ( IRC ) .
There are over 800 various forms and  schedules  .
The  best-known of  these is Form 1040 used by individuals .
In the United States , driver 's licenses are issued by each individual state ( including Washington , D.C. and territories ) , rather than  the संघीय सरकारी क्युकी  of the political concept of federalism .
Drivers are normally required to obtain a license from their state of  निवास और सब राज्य recognize  each other 's licenses for temporary visitors subject to normal age requirements .
A  राज्य may भी बर्खास्तगी an व्यक्तिगत  's driving privilege within its borders for traffic violations .
Many states share a common system of license classes , with some exceptions , and commercial  अनुज्ञा वर्ग हैं मानकीकृत by संघीय  regulation at 49 CFR part 383 .
China has been the source of many inventions , including the Four Great  आविष्कारों : papermaking , the कम्पास , बारूद  , and printing ( both woodblock and movable type ) .
The list  नीचे contains  these and other inventions .
The Chinese invented technologies involving mechanics , hydraulics , and mathematics applied to horology , metallurgy , astronomy , agriculture , engineering , music theory , craftsmanship , nautics  , और  warfare .
By the Warring States Period ( 403–221 BC ) , they had advanced metallurgic technology , including the blast furnace and cupola furnace  , जबकि the finery forge और puddling प्रक्रम यहूद ज्ञात by  the Han Dynasty ( 202 BC – AD 220 ) .
A  sophisticated आर्थिक प्रणाली in चीन दिया जनम  to inventions such as paper money during the Song Dynasty ( 960–1279 ) .
The invention of gunpowder by the 10th century led to an array of inventions such as the fire lance , land mine , naval mine , hand  तोपों , exploding गोलों , multistage प्रक्षेपास्त्र , और प्रक्षेपास्त्र बम साथ aerodynamic  wings and explosive payloads .
With the navigational aid of the 11th-century compass and ability to steer at high sea with  the 1st-century sternpost अरित्र , premodern  Chinese sailors sailed as far as East Africa and Egypt .
In water-powered clockworks , the premodern Chinese had used the escapement  यांत्रिकी चूंकि the 8th सदी और the अंतहीन  power-transmitting chain drive in the 11th century .
They  भी बना विशाल mechanical कठपुतली  theaters driven by waterwheels and carriage wheels and wine-serving automatons driven by paddle wheel boats .
The contemporaneous Peiligang and Pengtoushan cultures represent the oldest  पाषाणकालीन संस्कृतियों of चीन और यहूद formed around 7000 bc  .
Some of  the पहला आविष्कारों of पाषाणकालीन , प्रागैतिहासिक चीन शामिल semilunar और आयताकार स्टोन knives , स्टोन hoes और हुकुम , the cultivation of बाजरा  , rice and the soybean , the refinement of sericulture , the building of rammed earth structures with lime -plastered house floors , the creation of the potter 's wheel , the creation of pottery with cord-mat-basket designs , the creation of pottery tripods and pottery steamers , and the development of ceremonial vessels and scapulimancy for purposes of divination .
Francesca Bray argues that the domestication of the ox and buffalo during the Longshan culture ( c. 3000–c . 2000 BC ) period , the absence of Longshan-era irrigation or high-yield crops , full evidence of Longshan cultivation of dry-land cereal crops which gave high yields `` only when the soil was carefully  cultivated , '' सुझाएँ कि the हल थी ज्ञात at तनिक by the longshan संस्कृति काल और explains the ऊँची agricultural उत्पादन yields जिससे अनुमत the वृद्धि of चाइनीज सभ्यता दौरान the शांग राजवंश ( c. 1600–c . 1050 bc )  .
With later inventions such as the multiple-tube seed drill and heavy moldboard iron plow , China 's agricultural output could  sustain a much larger  population .
For the purposes of this list , inventions are regarded as technological firsts developed in China , and as such does not include foreign  technologies जिससे the चाइनीज acquired through सम्पर्क , ऐसे  as the windmill from the Middle East or the telescope from Early modern Europe .
It also does not include technologies developed elsewhere and later invented  separately by the चाइनीज , ऐसे as the ओडोमीटर और कड़ी  pump .
Scientific , mathematic or natural  discoveries , परिवर्तन in नाबालिग अवधारणाओं  of design or style and artistic innovations can not be regarded as inventions and do not appear on the list .
Gross domestic product in 2011 US dollars per capita , adjusted for inflation and purchasing power parity ( log scale ) from 1860 to 2011 , with population  ( डिस्क क्षेत्रफल ) लिये the us ( पीला ) , uk ( नारंगी ) , जापानी ( रेड ) , चीन  ( red ) , and India ( blue ) .
Globalization ( or globalisation—see spelling differences ) is the process of international integration arising from the interchange of  संसार दृश्य , उत्पाद  , ideas , and other aspects of culture .
Put in simple terms , globalization refers to  प्रक्रियाओं कि प्रचार  world-wide exchanges of national and cultural resources .
Advances in transportation and telecommunications infrastructure , including the rise of the  अंतरजाल , हैं प्रमुख कारकों  in globalization , generating further interdependence of economic and cultural activities .
Though several scholars place the  origins of वैश्वीकरण in आधुनिक टाइम्स , अन्य  trace its history long before the European age of discovery and voyages to the New World .
Some even trace the origins to the third  मिलेनियम  BCE .
Since the beginning of the 20th century , the pace of globalization has intensified  at a रैपिड रेट , विशेषकर दौरान the पोस्ट ठंडा  War era .
The term globalization has been in increasing use since  the mid-1980s  and especially since the mid-1990s .
In 2000 , the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ) identified four basic aspects of globalization : trade  और ट्रांजेक्शन , पूंजी और निवेश  movements , migration and movement of people and the dissemination of knowledge .
Further , environmental  चुनौतियां ऐसे as जलवायु बदलें , cross-boundary  water and air pollution , and over-fishing of the ocean are linked with globalization .
Globalizing processes affect and  हैं प्रभावित by कारोबार और कार्य संगठन , अर्थशास्त्र  , socio-cultural resources , and the natural environment .
The Replacements is a 2000 American sports  कॉमेडी  film directed by Howard Deutch .
It stars Keanu Reeves , Gene Hackman , and  ब्रुक langton  .
An American Airlines aircraft takes off  इससे dallas/fort  Worth International Airport .
This  विमानक्षेत्र is the  airline 's largest hub .
American Airlines flies to 79 domestic  गंतव्यों और 78  international destinations in 48 countries .
( as of  दिसम्बर  2012 )
The list includes the city , country ,  the कोड of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयर हस्तांतरण संघ ( iata विमानक्षेत्र कोड )  and the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO airport code ) , and the airport 's name , with the airline 's hubs , focus cities and seasonal destinations marked .
The list also contains destinations no longer  परोसा by the एयरलाइन  , which are marked as terminated destinations .
It does not include destinations served for  अमरीकी एयरलाइंस  by its regional affiliates American Eagle Airlines , Executive Airlines , and AmericanConnection .
`` Day-O ( The Banana Boat Song ) '' is a traditional Jamaican mento folk song , the best-known version of which was sung by Harry Belafonte and an alternate version interspersed with  another jamaican folksong , हिल और गुल्ली सवार  , by Dame Shirley Bassey .
Despite the song 's mento influences , `` Day-O ( The  banana नाव सोंग ) '' is widely  known as an example of calypso music .
It is a work song , from  the पाइंट of दृश्य of डॉक मजदूर working  the night shift loading bananas onto ships .
Daylight has come , the shift is over and  वे want उनके कार्य to be गिने  up so that they can go home .
World War I (  wwi ) थी a वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित  in Europe that began on 28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great War from its occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 ,  और the पहला संसार  War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's  ग्रेट शक्तियां , जिससे यहूद समवेत in दो opposing alliances : the allies ( आधारित on the ट्रिपल entente  of the United Kingdom , France and Russia ) and the Central Powers ( originally the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as  अधिक राष्ट्र डाला the युद्ध : इटली , जापानी और  the United States joined the Allies , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60 million  europeans , यहूद  mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of technological advancements that led to enormous increases in the  lethality of हथियार बगैर सम्बन्धित सुधार  in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving  the रास्ता लिये विभिन्न राजनैतिक परिवर्तन  , such as revolutions in many of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence  of साम्राज्यवाद in the विदेशी नीतियों  of the great powers of Europe .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of  austria-hungary , on 28 जून  1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over  the पिछला दशकों यहूद  invoked .
Within weeks , the major powers were at war and , via their colonies , the conflict soon  स्प्रेड around the संसार  .
On 28 July  , the austro-hungarians  fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium and Luxembourg on the way to France , providing  a casus belli लिये ब्रिटेन 's घोषणा of युद्ध विरूद्ध  Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the  पश्चिमी सामने settled into a स्थिर बैटल of  attrition with a trench line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its  आक्रमण of ईस्ट prussia  by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman  साम्राज्य joined the युद्ध ,  opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war  in 1915 और रोमानिया  in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's government collapsed in March 1917 and a  subsequent क्रान्ति in नवम्बर  brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies  drove वापस the germans in a श्रेणी  of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
Germany , which had  इसके अपना ट्रबल साथ क्रांतिकारियों  , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in victory  लिये the allies  .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as  the भागीदार आजमाया to mobilize  their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial powers—the German , Russian ,  austro-hungarian और उस्मानी empires—ceased  to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great  राशि of territory , जबकि  the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central  यूरोपीय थी  redrawn into several smaller states .
The  लीग of राष्ट्र  was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and  समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार युद्ध  II .
Nurse Jackie is an American series that  premiered on जून 8 , 2009 , on showtime , फिल्म सेंट्रल  and The Movie Network .
The series stars Edie Falco as the title character Jackie  peyton , an आपात विभाग नर्स at  All Saints ' Hospital in New York City .
For Jackie , `` Every day is a high wire act of juggling patients , doctors , fellow  नर्स और उसके अपना indiscretions  . ''
Keeping Up with the Kardashians ( often  referred to बस as the kardashians ) is an  American reality television series that premiered on October 14 , 2007 , on E ! .
It follows the lives of the  kardashian/jenner  family , including sisters Kourtney , Kim , and Khloé Kardashian .
The series ' success has led to the  spin-offs कोर्टनी  and Kim Take New York , Khloé & Lamar , Kourtney and Khloé Take Miami , and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
Afghanistan ( ; ; ) , officially the Islamic Republic of  अफगानिस्तान , is a landlocked  sovereign state forming part of South Asia , Central Asia , and to some extent Western Asia .
It has a population of around 30 million inhabiting an area of approximately , making it  the 42nd सबसे populous और 41st largest  nation in the world .
It is bordered by Pakistan in the south and the east , Iran in the west ,  तुर्कमेनिस्तान , उज़्बेकिस्तान और  Tajikistan in the north , and China in the far northeast .
Afghanistan has been an ancient focal  पाइंट of the रेशा सड़क और इंसान माइग्रेशन  .
Archaeologists have  मिला प्रमाण of इंसान habitation इससे  as far back as the Middle Paleolithic .
Urban civilization may have begun in  the क्षेत्रफल as जल्दी as  3,000 to 2,000 BCE .
Sitting at an important geostrategic  स्थान कि connects the मध्य ईस्ट संस्कृति साथ सेंट्रल एशिया और the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप , the जमीन रै महरूम घर to विभिन्न peoples  through the ages and witnessed many military campaigns , notably by Alexander the Great , Genghis Khan , and in modern era Western forces .
The land also served as a source from which the Greco-Bactrians , Kushans , Hephthalites ,  saffarids , ghaznavids , ghorids , khiljis , timurids , मुगलों , durranis  , and others have risen to form major empires .
The  राजनैतिक इतिहास of the आधुनिक राज्य of अफगानिस्तान  begins in 1709 , when the Hotaki dynasty was established in Kandahar followed by Ahmad Shah Durrani 's rise to power in 1747 .
In the late 19th century ,  अफगानिस्तान became a बफ़र राज्य  in the `` Great Game `` between the British and Russian empires .
Following the 1919 Anglo-Afghan War , King Amanullah began a European style modernization of the country but was stopped by the  ultra-conservatives  .
During the Cold War , after the withdrawal of the British from neighboring India in 1947 , the United States and the Soviet Union began spreading influences in Afghanistan , which led to a bloody war between the US-backed  मुजाहिदीन शक्तियां और the soviet-backed अफगान सरकारी in जिससे over a लाख afghans खोया  their lives .
This was followed by  the 1990s सिविल युद्ध  , the rise and fall of the extremist Taliban government and the 2001–present war .
In December 2001 , the United Nations Security Council authorized the creation of the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सुरक्षा सहायता फ़ोर्स ( isaf  ) to help maintain security in Afghanistan and assist the Karzai administration .
Three decades of war made  अफगानिस्तान एक of the संसार  's most dangerous countries , including the largest producer of refugees and asylum seekers .
While the international community is rebuilding war-torn  अफगानिस्तान , आतंकवादी समूह ऐसे as the हक्कानी संजाल और hezbi islami हैं actively  involved in a nationwide Taliban -led insurgency , which includes hundreds of assassinations and suicide attacks .
According to  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , the insurgents यहूद  responsible for 80 % of civilian casualties in 2011 and 2012 .
The American Civil War ( ACW ) , also known as the War between the States or simply the Civil War ( see naming ) , was a civil war fought  इससे 1861 to 1865 between the संयुक्त राज्य ( the `` संघ '' or the `` उत्तर '' ) और अनेक दक्षिणी स्लेव  states that declared their secession and formed the Confederate States of America ( the `` Confederacy '' or the `` South '' ) .
The war had its origin in the issue of slavery , especially the  एक्सटेंशन of गुलामी into  the western territories .
Foreign  शक्तियां किया नहीं intervene  .
After four years of bloody combat that left over 600,000  सैनिको मुर्दे और नष्ट much of the दक्षिण 's अवसंरचना  , the Confederacy collapsed , slavery was abolished , and the difficult Reconstruction process of restoring national unity and guaranteeing rights to the freed slaves began .
In the 1860 presidential election , Republicans , led by  अब्राहम lincoln , opposed expanding गुलामी into संयुक्त राज्य  ' territories .
Lincoln won , but before his inauguration on March 4 , 1861 , seven  cotton-based स्लेव  states formed the Confederacy .
Outgoing Democratic  अध्यक्ष जेम्स बुकानन और the आवक  Republicans rejected secession as illegal .
Lincoln 's inaugural address  घोषित उसके प्रशासन होता नहीं  initiate civil war .
आठ बाकी  slave states continued to reject calls for secession .
Confederate forces seized numerous federal  दुर्गों भीतर  territory claimed by the Confederacy .
A Peace Conference failed to  ढूँढें a सुलह  , and both sides prepared for war .
The Confederates assumed that European countries were so dependent on `` King  कपास `` कि वे होता intervene  ; none did and none recognized the new Confederate States of America .
Hostilities began on April 12 , 1861 ,  जब confederate शक्तियां fired upon  Fort Sumter , a key fort held by Union troops in South Carolina .
Lincoln called for each state  to provide सैनिकों to retake  the fort ; consequently , four more slave states joined the Confederacy , bringing their total to eleven .
The Union soon controlled the border states and established a naval  नाकेबंदी कि अबोध  the southern economy .
The Eastern Theater was  inconclusive in 1861–62  .
The autumn 1862 Confederate campaign into Maryland  ( a संघ राज्य ) ended साथ confederate  retreat at the Battle of Antietam , dissuading British intervention .
Lincoln issued the Emancipation  उदघोषणा , जिससे बना समाप्ति गुलामी  a war goal .
To the west , by summer 1862 the Union destroyed the Confederate  नदी नेवी , तब much of उनके पश्चिमी  armies , and the Union at Vicksburg split the Confederacy in two at the Mississippi River .
In 1863 ,  रॉबर्ट E. ली 's confederate  incursion north ended at the Battle of Gettysburg .
Western successes led to Ulysses S. Grant command of all  संघ सेना in 1864  .
In the Western  थिएटर , विलियम  T. Sherman drove east to capture Atlanta and marched to the sea , destroying Confederate infrastructure along the way .
The Union marshaled the resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions , and could afford to  लड़ो लड़ाइयों of अपघर्षण through the overland अभियान towards रिचमंड  , the Confederate capital .
The defending Confederate army failed , leading to Lee 's  आत्मसमर्पण to ग्रान्ट at appomattox  Court House on April 9 , 1865 .
The American Civil  युद्ध थी एक of the earliest  true industrial wars .
railroads , the टेलीग्राफ , steamships  , and mass-produced weapons were employed extensively .
The mobilization of civilian factories , mines , shipyards , banks , transportation and food  आपूर्तियाँ सब foreshadowed  World War I .
It remains the deadliest  युद्ध in अमरीकी इतिहास , resulting in the मौतों of an अनुमानित  750,000 soldiers and an undetermined number of civilian casualties .
Historian John Huddleston estimates the death toll at ten percent of  सब उत्तरी males 20–45 सालो बूढ़ा , और 30  percent of all Southern white males aged 18–40 .
Cost of goods sold ( COGS ) refer to the inventory costs of those goods a  कारोबार रै  sold during a particular period .
Costs are associated with particular goods using  एक of अनेक  formulas , including specific identification , first-in first-out ( FIFO ) , or average cost .
लागत शामिल सब लागत of खरीदें , लागत  of conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition .
Costs of  goods बना by the  business include material , labor , and allocated overhead .
The costs of those  goods नहीं yet बेची हैं deferred as लागत  of inventory until the inventory is sold or written down in value .
Freak Lunchbox candy  स्टोर in halifax  , Nova Scotia
A confectionery  स्टोर ( अधिक commonly referred  to as a sweet shop in the United Kingdom , a candy store in the North America , or a lolly shop in Australia ) sells confectionery and is usually targeted to children .
Most confectionery stores are filled with an assortment of sweets far larger than a grocer or convenience   store could accommodate .
They often offer  a चयन of  old fashioned treats , and sweets from different countries .
Very  प्रायः अपरिवर्तित in लेआउट चूंकि उनके  inception , confectioneries are known for their warming and nostalgic feel .
The village of Pateley Bridge claims to have the  oldest confectionery  store in England .
The oldest sweet shop in  इंग्लैण्ड , in the गाँव  of Pateley Bridge
Oklahoma ( ) ( Pawnee :  uukuhuúwa , cay : gahnawiyoˀgeh  ) is a state located in West South Central United States .
Oklahoma is the 20th most  extensive और the  28th most populous of the 50 United States .
The state 's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma , meaning `` red people '' , and it is known  informally by इसके उपनाम  , The Sooner State .
Formed by the combination of Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory on November 16 , 1907 ,  ओक्लाहोमा थी the 46th राज्य to डालें  the union .
Its residents are known as Oklahomans or ,  informally `` okies '' , और इसके पूंजी और  largest city is Oklahoma City .
A major producer of natural gas , oil , and agriculture , Oklahoma relies on an economic  आधार of विमानन ,  energy , telecommunications , and biotechnology .
It has one of the fastest  growing economies in the स्वदेश  , ranking among the top states in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth .
Oklahoma City and Tulsa  serve as ओक्लाहोमा 's प्राथमिक आर्थिक anchors  , with nearly two thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas .
With small mountain  सीमाएँ , प्रेयरी , mesas , और पूर्वी वनों , सबसे of ओक्लाहोमा झूठ  in the Great Plains and the U.S . Interior Highlands —a region especially prone to severe weather .
In addition to having a prevalence of English , German , Scottish , Irish and Native American ancestry ,  अधिक than 25 देशी अमरीकी भाषाएं हैं बोला in ओक्लाहोमा  , second only to California .
Oklahoma is located on a confluence of three major American cultural regions and historically served as a route for cattle drives , a destination for southern  settlers , और a government-sanctioned  territory for Native Americans .
Stacked and  खड़ा car  tires
a टायर ( or टायर ) is a ring-shaped covering  that fits around a wheel 's rim to protect it and enable better vehicle performance .
Most tires , such as those for automobiles and bicycles , provide traction between the  गाडी और the सड़क जबकि providing a लचीली cushion कि absorbs  shock .
The materials of modern pneumatic tires are synthetic rubber , natural rubber , fabric and wire  , साथ साथ कार्बन ब्लैक और  other chemical compounds .
They consist of a  tread और a देह  .
The tread provides traction while the body provides containment for a  मात्रा of संपीडित  air .
Before rubber was  विकसित , the पहला संस्करण of टायर यहूद  simply bands of metal that fitted around wooden wheels to prevent wear and tear .
Early  रबर टायर  were solid ( not pneumatic ) .
Today , the majority of tires are pneumatic  inflatable structures  , comprising a doughnut-shaped body of cords and wires encased in rubber and generally filled with compressed air to form an inflatable cushion .
Pneumatic tires are used on many types of vehicles , including cars , bicycles , motorcycles ,  ट्रक , earthmovers  , and aircraft .
Metal tires are still used on locomotives and railcars , and solid rubber ( or other polymer ) tires  हैं स्टिल प्रयुक्त in विभिन्न non-automotive अनुप्रयोग , ऐसे as कुछ  casters , carts , lawnmowers , and wheelbarrows .
Dr. Joseph Warren ( June 11 , 1741 – June 17 , 1775 ) was an  अमरीकी डॉक्टर जो निभाई a अग्रणी भूमिका in अमरीकी  Patriot organizations in Boston in early days of the American Revolution , eventually serving as president of the revolutionary Massachusetts Provincial Congress .
Warren enlisted Paul Revere and William Dawes on April 18 , 1775 , to leave Boston and spread the alarm that the British garrison in  बोस्टन थी सेटिंग आउट to रेड the कस्बा of concord और गिरफ़्तार विद्रोही नेताओ  John Hancock and Samuel Adams .
वारेन participated  in the next day 's Battles of Lexington and Concord , which are commonly considered to be the opening engagements of the American Revolutionary War .
Warren had been commissioned a Major General  in the उपनिवेश 's मिलिशिया shortly  before the June 17 , 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill .
Rather than exercising his rank , Warren served  in the बैटल as a निजी सिपाही , और थी मारे in  combat when British troops stormed the redoubt atop Breed 's Hill .
His death ,  immortalized in जॉन  Trumbull 's painting , The Death of General Warren at the Battle of Bunker 's Hill , June 17 , 1775 , galvanized the rebel forces , and he has been memorialized in many place names in the United States .
STM image of self-assembled supramolecular chains of the  सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर quinacridone on  Graphite .
an सशुल्क सेमीकंडक्टर is an सशुल्क सामग्री साथ सेमीकंडक्टर  properties , that is , with an electrical conductivity between that of insulators and that of metals .
Single molecules , short chain ( oligomers ) and  सशुल्क polymers can be semiconductive  .
Semiconducting  छोटी अणुओं ( खुशबूदार hydrocarbons  ) include the polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene , anthracene , and rubrene .
Polymeric organic semiconductors include poly ( 3-hexylthiophene ) , poly (  p-phenylene vinylene ) , as खूब  as polyacetylene and its derivatives .
There are two major overlapping classes of organic  semiconductors  .
These are organic charge-transfer  देवालय  and various linear-backbone conductive polymers derived from polyacetylene .
Linear  रीढ़ सशुल्क semiconductors शामिल polyacetylene  itself and its derivatives polypyrrole , and polyaniline .
At least locally , charge-transfer complexes often exhibit similar conduction  mechanisms to अकार्बनिक semiconductors  .
Such mechanisms arise from the  उपस्थिति of छेद और इलेक्ट्रॉन  conduction layers separated by a band gap .
While such classic mechanisms  हैं महत्वपूर्ण locally , as साथ अकार्बनिक amorphous semiconductors , tunnelling  , localized states , mobility gaps , and phonon -assisted hopping also significantly contribute to conduction , particularly in polyacetylenes .
Like inorganic  semiconductors , सशुल्क semiconductors  can be doped .
Organic  semiconductors susceptible to doping ऐसे  as polyaniline ( Ormecon ) and are also known as organic metals .
Typical current carriers in  सशुल्क semiconductors  are holes and electrons in π-bonds .
Almost  सब सशुल्क  solids are insulators .
But when their constituent molecules  have π-conjugate प्रणालियों , electrons  can move via π-electron cloud overlaps , especially by hopping , tunnelling and related mechanisms .
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and  phthalocyanine नमक crystals हैं  examples of this type of organic semiconductor .
Mainly due to low mobility , even unpaired  electrons may be stable in  charge-transfer complexes .
Such unpaired electrons  can फलन  as current carriers .
This type of semiconductor is  भी प्राप्त by pairing an इलेक्ट्रॉन  donor molecule with an electron acceptor molecule .
Female  स्खलन is the expulsion  of fluid by human females from the paraurethral ducts through and around the female urethra during or before an orgasm .
It is also known colloquially as gushing or squirting , although these are considered to  be अलग phenomena in कुछ शोध publications  .
The exact source and nature of the fluid continue to be a topic of debate among medical professionals , which is also  सम्बन्धित to संदेह over the अस्तित्व of  the G-Spot .
The FIFA Women 's World Cup is an international association football competition contested by the senior women 's national teams of the members of Fédération  internationale de फ़ुटबॉल संघ ( फीफा ) , the खेल 's वैश्विक  governing body .
The  चैंपियनशिप रै महरूम awarded प्रत्येक  four years since the inaugural tournament in 1991 .
Japan won  the 2011 टूर्नामेंट  in a penalty shootout .
The current format of the tournament involves 16 teams  स्पर्धा लिये the शीर्षक at venues भीतर the मेजबान  nation ( s ) over a period of about three weeks ; – this phase is often called the World Cup Finals .
a योग्यता phase , जिससे फिलहाल takes प्लेस over  the preceding three years , is used to determine which teams qualify for the tournament together with the host nation ( s ) .
The FIFA  महिलाओं 's संसार कप is पहचाना as the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिता  in women 's football and is played amongst women 's national football teams of the member states of FIFA , the sport 's global governing body .
The first Women 's World Cup tournament , named the Women 's World  चैंपियनशिप , थी आयोजित in 1991 , sixty-one सालो  after the men 's first FIFA World Cup tournament in 1930 .
The six  संसार कप tournaments have महरूम  won by four different national teams .
The next World Cup  होगा be hosted by कनाडा  in 2015 .
Scorpions is a young adult novel written by Walter  डीन मायर्स , पहला  published in the United States by Harper & Row on June 20 , 1988 .
Front page of a 17th century Hebrew Bible by  जोसेफ athias , अभी at बेथ  Hatefutsoth , Israel
'Son of man ' is the translation of various Hebrew and Greek phrases used  in दोनो the यहूदी  Bible and the New Testament .
It has diverse meanings , ranging from a normal human being to a prophesied  अनन्त ,  divine ruler .
the यहूदी अभिव्यक्ति  `` son of man '' ( בן–אדם i.e . ben-'adam ) appears one hundred and seven times in the Hebrew Bible .
This is the  सबसे आम  Hebrew construction for the singular but is used mostly in Ezekiel ( 93 times ) and 14 times elsewhere .
In thirty two  मामले the phrase appears  in intermediate plural form `` sons of men '' , i.e . human beings .
As generally  interpreted by यहूदियों  , it denotes humankind generally .
In the Koine Greek of the New Testament , `` the son of man '' is invariably used as `` ὁ υἱὸς τοὺ ἀνθρώπου  '' साथ a definite आलेख  .
The use of the definite article in `` the son of man '' in the Christian gospels is novel , and  पहले इसके उपयोग वहीँ , no रिकॉर्ड of इसके उपयोग in कोई of the surviving  Greek documents of antiquity exist .
Geza Vermes has stated that `` the Son of man '' in  the ईसाई  gospels is unrelated to Hebrew Bible usages .
In Christian  उपयोग , नापसंद the बेटे of परमेश्वर शीर्षक , जिससे रै  been an essential element of Christian creeds since the Apostolic age , the proclamation of `` Jesus as the Son of man '' has never been an article of faith in Christianity .
The interpretation of the use of `` the Son of man '' in the New Testament has  remained चुनौतीपूर्ण और बाद 150 सालो  of debate no consensus on the issue has emerged among scholars .
निपुण of foxhounds लीड the फ़ील्ड इससे powderham किला in देवों , इंग्लैण्ड , साथ the hounds in सामने  .
Fox hunting  is an कार्यकलाप involving  the tracking , chase , and sometimes killing of a fox , traditionally a red fox , by trained foxhounds or other scent hounds , and a group of unarmed followers led by a master of foxhounds , who follow the hounds on foot or on horseback .
Fox hunting originated in  the रूप practised जबतक recently in the संयुक्त किंगडम in the 16th  century , but is practised all over the world , including in Australia , Canada , France , Ireland , Italy and the United States .
In Australia ,  the पद भी refers to the  hunting of foxes with firearms similar to spotlighting or deer hunting .
In much of the world hunting in general is understood to relate to any game animals or weapons ( e.g. , deer hunting with bow and arrow ) ; in Britain and Ireland , ``  शिकार '' बगैर योग्यता implies  fox hunting ( or other forms of hunting with hounds- beagling , stag hunting , mink hunting , drag hunting or hunting the clean boot ) as described here .
The sport is controversial , particularly in the UK , where it was banned in Scotland in 2002 , and in England and Wales  in नवम्बर 2004 ( विधि  enforced from February 2005 ) , though shooting foxes as vermin remained legal .
Proponents of fox hunting view it as an important part of rural culture and useful for reasons of conservation and pest control , while  प्रतिद्वंद्वियों argue कि it is बेदर्द और अनावश्यक  .
Tobacco  विज्ञापन is the विज्ञापन of तम्बाकू उत्पाद or  use ( typically cigarette smoking ) by the tobacco industry through a variety of media including sponsorship , particularly of sporting events .
it is अभी एक  of the most highly regulated forms of marketing .
Some or all forms of tobacco  विज्ञापन हैं बैन in अनेक  countries .
Bally Technologies  , inc. is a निर्माता  of slot machines and other gaming technology based in Las Vegas , Nevada .
The company was  संस्थापित in 1968 as उन्नत पेटेंट  Technology .
It eventually changed its name to Alliance Gaming and acquired , in 1996 , Bally Gaming  अंतरराष्ट्रीय , a पूर्व प्रभाग of  Bally Manufacturing .
In 2006 , the entire company adopted the Bally name , a  ट्रेडमार्क कि originated in 1932 by the बल्ली निर्माण निगम  .
Gustave Doré 's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy ( 1861–1868 ) ; here , Dante is lost in Canto  1 of the inferno  .
Inferno  ( इतालवी  for `` Hell `` ) is the first part of Dante Alighieri 's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy .
It is followed by Purgatorio and  paradiso  .
It is an allegory telling of the   journey of Dante through Hell , guided by the Roman poet Virgil .
In the poem , Hell is depicted as nine circles of suffering located  भीतर the  Earth .
Allegorically , the Divine Comedy represents the journey of the soul towards God , with the Inferno describing the  मान्यता और अस्वीकृति of  sin .
स्मरनॉफ is  a brand of vodka owned and produced by the British company Diageo .
The Smirnoff brand began with a vodka distillery  संस्थापित in मास्को by pyotr  Arsenievich Smirnov ( 1831–1898 ) .
It is now distributed in 130  देशों  .
It is produced in several countries including  इण्डिया , आयरलैंड , इटली  , the United Kingdom and the United States .
Smirnoff products include vodka , flavoured  वोदका , और  malt beverages .
In March 2006 , Diageo North America claimed that Smirnoff vodka was the  best-selling आसुत स्पिरिट ब्रांड in the संसार  .
Big Brown ( foaled April 10 , 2005 in Kentucky )  is a रिटायर्ड चैंपियन अमरीकी thoroughbred racehorse  and winner of the 2008 Kentucky Derby and 2008 Preakness Stakes .
Bred by Dr. Gary B. Knapp 's Monticule Farms in  lexington , केंटकी  , he won his first five race starts .
He was sired by Grade III  विजेता boundary , a बेटे of  North American Champion sire Danzig , a son of Northern Dancer .
Big Brown 's dam was Mien , also a granddaughter of Northern  नर्तकी  through her sire , Nureyev .
the serenity दुआ is the आम  name for an originally untitled prayer by the American theologian Reinhold Niebuhr ( 1892–1971 ) .
it रै महरूम अपनाया  by Alcoholics Anonymous and other twelve-step programs .
the best-known रूप is : परमेश्वर  , grant me the serenity to accept the things I can not change,
The courage to change the things I  can,
And  अक्ल to जान  the difference .
The Declaration and Resolves of the First Continental Congress ( also known as the Declaration of Colonial Rights , or the  घोषणा of अधिकारों ) , थी a बयान अपनाया by the पहला महाद्वीपीय  Congress on October 14 , 1774 , in response to the Intolerable Acts passed by the British Parliament .
the घोषणा outlined  colonial objections to the Intolerable Acts , listed a colonial bill of rights , and provided a detailed list of grievances .
It was similar to the Declaration of Rights  और grievances , passed by the स्टैम्प  Act Congress a decade earlier .
The Declaration concluded with an outline of Congress 's plans : to enter into a boycott of British trade  ( the महाद्वीपीय संघ ) जबतक उनके grievances यहूद redressed , to प्रकाशित पता  to the people of Great Britain and British America , and to send a petition to the King .
Pulse  दबाव is the दबाव  that is felt when feeling the pulse .
Measured in millimeters of mercury ( mmHg ) , the pressure difference  between the systolic और diastolic  pressures is the pressure change to create the pulse , which is the pulse pressure .
If resting blood pressure is ( systolic/diastolic )  120/80 millimeters of पारा ( mmhg ) , पल्स दबाव  is 40 .
The Hills is a  वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी जिससे  originally aired on MTV from May 31 , 2006 until July 13 , 2010 .
The show uses a reality television format , following the personal  जीवनदान of अनेक यंग वयस्कों जीना in लॉस एंजिल्स  , California , but tends towards a narrative format more commonly found in scripted genres such as soap operas .
The series originally followed the personal  जीवन of पूर्व लगुना बीच  star Lauren Conrad and her friends ' new lives in Los Angeles .
After five seasons ,  कोनराड बाएँ the श्रेणी और थी  replaced by another former Laguna Beach star , Kristin Cavallari , beginning in the second half of the fifth season .
The series  concluded at  the end of the sixth season .
Entertainment  साप्ताहिक क्रमित the पहाड़ियाँ 82nd on उनके  list of `` The 100 Best Shows of the Last 25 Years , '' stating that the series was a `` New Classic . ''
AOL TV called it TV 's  biggest अपराधी  Pleasure .
The series  premiered in अनुप्रयोग in the  fall of 2009 alongside Laguna Beach : The Real Orange County .
In poker , bad  ताल is a subjective पद लिये  a hand in which a player with what appear to be strong cards nevertheless loses .
It most often occurs where one player bets the clearly stronger hand and their opponent makes a poor call  कि  eventually `` hits '' and wins .
There is no consensus among  पोकर खिलाड़ी as to कया exactly constitutes a ख़राब ताल और प्रायः खिलाड़ी  will disagree about whether a particular hand was a bad beat .
The goldfish ( Carassius auratus auratus ) is a freshwater fish in the family  cyprinidae  of order Cypriniformes .
It was one of the earliest fish  to be domesticated  , and is one of the most commonly kept aquarium fish .
A relatively small  सदस्य of the कार्प परिवार ( जिससे भी शामिल the कोई कार्प  and the crucian carp ) , the goldfish is a domesticated version of a less-colorful carp ( Carassius auratus ) native to east Asia .
It was first  domesticated in चीन अधिक than a हजार सालो  ago , and several distinct breeds have since been developed .
Goldfish breeds vary greatly in size , body  आकार , जोडे विन्यास और coloration ( विभिन्न combinations of  white , yellow , orange , red , brown , and black are known ) .
Uncooked   Rouladen
Rouladen ( or Rinderroulade , singular : roulade ) is a German meat roulade usually consisting of bacon ,  प्याज , सरसों और  pickles wrapped in thinly sliced beef which is then cooked .
In some countries , the roulade is also known  as `` बीफ  olive '' .
Beef or veal is used as meat though some food scholars tend to  मानना कि the असली संस्करण थी संभवतः venison  or pork , and pork is still popular in some areas .
The beef rouladen as we know them today have become  लोकप्रिय over the पिछला  century .
The cut is usually topside beef or silverside  चूंकि इस is the सस्ता  cut .
The more expensive version would be the  गोलाकार स्टीक , भी ज्ञात as rump  steak .
the मांस is काटें into  large , thin slices .
The filling is a mixture of smoked and cooked pork belly , chopped onions and chopped pickles ( gurken ) which is at times varied by  adding minced मांस , सॉसेज मांस , पाइन nuts और सरसों  .
the मिश्रण  varies from region to region .
Rouladen are traditionally  परोसा लिये  dinner .
Red wine is often served  साथ इस डिश  .
Typical eukaryotic  कोशिका  .
Cellular respiration is the set of the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells  of जीवों to बदलें biochemical उर्जा इससे  nutrients into adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , and then release waste products .
The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions , which break large molecules into smaller ones , releasing energy in the process as weak so-called ``  high-energy '' bonds हैं replaced by stronger bonds in  the products .
Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to  ईंधन सेल्यूलर  activity .
Cellular  श्वसन is माना  an exothermic redox reaction .
The overall reaction is broken into many smaller ones when it occurs  in the देह , सबसे of जिससे  are redox reactions themselves .
Although technically , cellular respiration is a  दहन प्रतिक्रिया , it clearly करता नहीं resemble एक  when it occurs in a living cell .
This difference is because it occurs  in अनेक पृथक कदम  .
While the overall reaction is a combustion reaction  , no सिंगल प्रतिक्रिया कि comprises  it is a combustion reaction .
Nutrients  कि हैं commonly प्रयुक्त by एनिमल और संयंत्र कोशिकाएं in श्वसन  include sugar , amino acids and fatty acids , and a common oxidizing agent ( electron acceptor ) is molecular oxygen ( O2 ) .
The energy stored in ATP ( its third phosphate group is weakly bonded to the rest of the molecule and is cheaply broken allowing stronger bonds to form , thereby transferring energy for use by the cell ) can then be used to drive processes requiring  उर्जा , सहित जैवसंश्लेषण , locomotion or परिवहन of अणुओं आरपार  cell membranes .
Countries by 2011  जीडीपी ( नाममात्र  ) according to the CIA World Factbook .
This article includes a list of countries in the world sorted by their gross domestic product ( GDP ) , the market value of all final goods  और सेवाएं  from a nation in a given year .
The GDP dollar estimates presented here are calculated at  मार्केट or सरकारी आधिकारिक  exchange rates .
Several economies which are not  माना to be देशों ( संसार , the eu ,  and some dependent territories ) are included in the lists because they appear in the sources .
These economies are not ranked in the charts here  , लकिन हैं सूचीबद्ध जहाँ लागू  .
The figures presented here do not take into account differences in the cost of living in different countries , and the results can vary  greatly इससे एक साल to another आधारित on fluctuations in the एक्सचेंज  rates of the country 's currency .
Such  fluctuations may बदलें a देश 's रैंकिंग  from one year to the next , even though they often make little or no difference to the standard of living of its population .
Therefore these figures should be  प्रयुक्त साथ  caution .
Some  countries/regions  may have citizens which are on average wealthy .
These  countries/regions  could appear in this list as having a small GDP .
This would be because the country/region listed has a small population , and therefore small total economy ; the GDP is calculated  as the जनसांख्यिकी टाइम्स the माल प्रति  capita .
Comparisons of national wealth  हैं भी अक्सर बना on the आधार of  purchasing power parity ( PPP ) , to adjust for differences in the cost of living in different countries .
( See List of  देशों by जीडीपी ( ppp  ) )
PPP largely removes the exchange rate problem , but has its own drawbacks ;  it  does not reflect the value of economic output in international trade , and it also requires more estimation than nominal GDP .
On the whole , PPP per capita figures are  अधिक narrowly स्प्रेड than नाममात्र  GDP per capita figures .
The  पहला सूची शामिल  data compiled by the United Nations Statistics Division for 2011 .
The second list largely includes data ( estimate )  compiled by  the International Monetary Fund for 2012 .
The third list shows the World Bank 's mostly 2011  estimates , और the चौथी सूची शामिल ज़्यादातर  2012 estimates from the CIA World Factbook .
Lapping is a machining process , in which two surfaces are  मला साथ साथ an अक्खड़ between  them , by hand movement or by way of a machine .
इस can  take two forms .
The first type of lapping ( traditionally called grinding ) , typically involves rubbing a brittle material such as glass against a surface such as iron or glass itself ( also known as the `` lap '' or  पीस औजार ) साथ an अक्खड़ ऐसे as एल्यूमिनियम  oxide , jeweller 's rouge , optician 's rouge , emery , silicon carbide , diamond , etc. , in between them .
This produces microscopic conchoidal fractures as the abrasive rolls about between  the दो सतहों और removes  material from both .
the अन्य रूप of lapping involves a softer  material such as pitch or a ceramic for the lap , which is `` charged '' with the abrasive .
The  गोद is तब प्रयुक्त  to cut a harder material—the workpiece .
The abrasive embeds within the softer material which holds it and  permits it to स्कोर आरपार और काटें the harder सामग्री  .
Taken to a finer limit , this will produce a polished surface such as with a polishing cloth on an automobile , or a polishing cloth or  पॉलिशिंग पिच upon कांच or  steel .
Taken to the ultimate limit , with the aid of accurate interferometry and specialized  पॉलिशिंग मशीने or skilled हाथ पॉलिशिंग , lensmakers  can produce surfaces that are flat to better than 30 nanometers .
This is one twentieth of the wavelength  of लाइट इससे the commonly  used 632.8 nm helium neon laser light source .
Surfaces this flat  can be molecularly बंधुआ ( optically  contacted ) by bringing them together under the right conditions .
( This is not the same as the  wringing प्रभाव  of Johansson blocks , although it is similar ) .
The term `` America 's Team '' is a popular nickname in the United States that refers to the Dallas  cowboys in the नेशनल  Football League .
The nickname originated with the team 's 1978 highlight film ,  जहाँ the narrator opens साथ  the following introduction : The term is recognized and often used by media outlets , including ESPN , Yahoo ! , HBO Sports , and Sports Illustrated .
My Babysitter 's a Vampire ( French : Ma  gardienne est un पिशाच ) is a 2011 कनाडाई टेलीविज़न  series , based on the television film of the same name .
In Canada , the series premiered in French on Télétoon on February 28 ,  2011 , in  English on Teletoon on March 14 , 2011 , and on Disney Channel in the United States on June 27 , 2011 .
The show was  निर्मित by भैस  TV , creators of 6teen and Total Drama .
The show follows Ethan Morgan ( Matthew Knight ) , who , in the television film , learns that his  दाई सारा ( वैनेसा मॉर्गन ) is a पिशाच .
In the film , he learns he is  समर्थ to have visions और उसके बेहतरीन dost  Benny Weir ( Atticus Mitchell ) is a spellmaster .
The  श्रेणी फ़ॉलो the तीन as वे लो on अलौकिक शक्तियां और have adventures  , with occasional help from fellow vampires Rory ( Cameron Kennedy ) and Erica ( Kate Todd ) , while dealing with the troubles of regular high school life .
A second season was  पुष्टि to प्रारंभ उत्पादन in सितंबर 2011 और  it first premiered on Disney Channel on June 29 , 2012 , it premiered on Teletoon September 6 , 2012 .
Télétoon started featuring season 2 sneak-peak  एपीसोड on अक्तूबर 28 , 2012  and premiered it on January 10 , 2013
Dodge B Series utility circa 1950 ,  चलित by अल्बर्ट namatjira
A pickup  ट्रक or pick-up , प्रायः बस referred  to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
In North America , the term pickup is used for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built , integrated bed , as well as for  coupé यूटिलिटी वाहनों , प्रायः आधारित on a निजी car chassis  , but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use .
Some countries have their own terms similar to pickup , such  as ute in ऑस्ट्रेलिया और नई जीलैंड ,  or bakkie in South Africa .
Large pickup trucks are somewhat rare in  यूरोपीय , जहाँ वैन और लाइट lorries हैं  commonly used for similar roles .
The President of the United  राज्य of अमेरिका ( potus ) is the सिर of राज्य और  head of government of the United States .
The president leads the executive branch of the federal government and  is the commander-in-chief of the संयुक्त  States Armed Forces .
Article II of the U.S. Constitution vests the executive power of the United States in the president and charges him with the execution of federal law ,  alongside the जिम्मेदारी of appointing संघीय कार्यपालिका , राजनयिक , नियामक , और न्यायिक  officers , and concluding treaties with foreign powers , with the advice and consent of the Senate .
The president is further empowered to grant federal pardons  और reprieves , और to convene और adjourn  either or both houses of Congress under extraordinary circumstances .
Since the founding of the United States , the power of the president and the federal government have grown substantially and each modern president , despite possessing no  औपचारिक विधान शक्तियां परे हस्ताक्षर or vetoing congressionally  passed bills , is largely responsible for dictating the legislative agenda of his party and the foreign and domestic policy of the United States .
The president is frequently  वर्णित as the सबसे शक्तिशाली  person in the world .
The president is indirectly elected by the people through the Electoral College to a four-year term , and is  एक of तभी दो nationally निर्वाचित  federal officers , the other being the Vice President of the United States .
The Twenty-second Amendment , adopted in 1951 , prohibits anyone from ever  होने निर्वाचित to the  presidency for a third full term .
It also prohibits a person from being elected to the presidency more than once if that person previously had  परोसा as अध्यक्ष , or एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष  , for more than two years of another person 's term as president .
In all , 43  individuals  have served 55 four-year terms .
On January 20 , 2009 ,  बराक ओबामा became the 44th और  current president .
On November 6 , 2012 , he was re-elected and is scheduled  to serve जबतक जनवरी  20 , 2017 .
बोतलबंद  mineral water
Bottled water is drinking water ( e.g. , well water , distilled water ,  खनिज जल , or वसन्त जल ) packaged in  plastic or glass water bottles .
Bottled water  may be कार्बोनेटेड  or not .
आकार दायरा इससे छोटी सिंगल सेवारत  bottles to large carboys for water coolers .
Map of the major rivers , lakes ,  और टंकी  in India
Map  प्रर्दशित नदियाँ और बाढ़  prone areas in India
Rivers  of इण्डिया खेल an महत्वपूर्ण  role in the lives of the Indian people .
The river systems provide irrigation , potable water , cheap  परिवहन , विद्युत , और  the livelihoods for a large number of people all over the country and to rural areas .
This easily explains why nearly all  the प्रमुख शहरों of इण्डिया हैं स्तिथ  by the banks of rivers .
The rivers also have an important role in Hindu  mythology और हैं माना पावन  by all Hindus in the country .
Seven major rivers along with their numerous tributaries make up the river  प्रणाली of इण्डिया  .
Most of the rivers pour their waters into the Bay of Bengal ;  however , कुछ of the नदियाँ जिनकी पाठ्यक्रम लो उन्हें through  the western part of the country and towards the east of the state of Himachal Pradesh empty into the Arabian Sea .
Parts of Ladakh , northern parts of the Aravlli range and the  arid भाग of the थार मरुस्थल  have inland drainage .
Dr.Francis Buchanan  surveyed the  courses of the rivers of India along with their tributaries and branches in 1810-11 AD and presented a minute account of it .
The  shifting of the पाठ्यक्रम और  bed over the centuries is very remarkable .
Many of the channels mentioned in  कि सर्वेक्षण have अभी become मुर्दे , सूखी  or even extinct .
All major rivers of India originate from  एक of the तीन प्रमुख  watersheds :
The  हिमालय और the  Karakoram ranges
Vindhya and Satpura  सीमाएँ और chotanagpur पठार  in central India
Sahyadri or Western  ghats in पश्चिमी  India
The Bretton Woods system of monetary management established the rules for commercial and financial relations among the world 's major  औद्योगिक राज्य in the mid-20th सदी  .
The Bretton Woods system was the  पहला उदाहरण of a fully negotiated मौद्रिक अनुक्रम intended  to govern monetary relations among independent nation-states .
Preparing to rebuild the international economic system as World War II was still raging , 730 delegates from all 44 Allied nations gathered at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods ,  नई हैम्पशायर , संयुक्त राज्य , लिये the संयुक्त राष्ट्र मौद्रिक और वित्तीय सम्मेलन  .
The delegates deliberated during 1–22 July 1944 , and signed the  अनुबंध on इसके फाइनल दिन .
Setting up a system of rules , institutions , and procedures to regulate the international monetary system , the planners at Bretton Woods established the International  मौद्रिक निधि ( imf ) और the अंतरराष्ट्रीय बैंको लिये पुनर्निर्माण और विकास  ( IBRD ) , which today is part of the World Bank Group .
These organizations became operational in 1945  बाद a sufficient क्रमांक of देशों था ratified  the agreement .
The chief features of the Bretton Woods system were an obligation for each country to  अपनाना a मौद्रिक नीति कि कायम the एक्सचेंज रेट by tying इसके करेंसी to the u.S. डालर और the क्षमता  of the IMF to bridge temporary imbalances of payments .
On 15 August 1971 ,  the संयुक्त राज्य  unilaterally terminated convertibility of the US $ to gold .
This brought the Bretton Woods system to an end and  देखी the डालर become fiat  currency .
This action , referred to as the  निक्सन शॉक , निर्मित the हालात in जिससे the संयुक्त  States dollar became a reserve currency used by many states .
At the same time , many fixed currencies ( such as GBP ,  लिये उदाहरण ) , भी  became free floating .
Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is an Italian company that designs  और  manufactures motorcycles .
Headquartered   in Bologna , Italy , Ducati is owned by Audi through its Italian subsidiary Lamborghini .
A credit score is a  numerical अभिव्यक्ति आधारित on a सांख्यिकीय विश्लेषण  of a person 's credit files , to represent the creditworthiness of that person .
A credit score is primarily based on credit report  सूचना typically sourced  from credit bureaus .
Lenders , such as banks and credit card companies , use credit scores to evaluate the potential risk posed by lending money to consumers and to  mitigate  losses due to bad debt .
Lenders use credit scores to  determine जो qualifies  for a loan , at what interest rate , and what credit limits .
Lenders also use credit scores to determine which customers are likely  to लाओ in  the most revenue .
The use of credit or identity scoring prior to authorizing access or granting credit is  an क्रियान्वयन of  a trusted system .
Credit  स्कोरिंग is नहीं सीमित to  banks .
Other organizations , such as mobile phone companies ,  बीमे कंपनियाँ , जमींदार ,  and government departments employ the same techniques .
Credit scoring also has a lot  of ओवरलैप  with data mining , which uses many similar techniques .
These  तकनीकों combine हज़ारों  of factors but they are more or less similar or the same .
The seven SI base units and the interdependency of their  परिभाषाएं : लिये उदाहरण , to निकालें the परिभाषा of the मीटर इससे the गति of लाइट , the परिभाषा  of the second must be known while the ampere and candela are both dependent on the definition of energy which in turn is defined in terms of length , mass and time .
The International System of Units ( SI ) defines seven units of measure as a basic  नियत इससे जिससे  all other SI units are derived .
These SI base units and  उनके शारीरिक quantities  are:
metre for  लंबाई  ( US English : meter )
kilogram for mass ( note : not the  ग्राम  )
second  लिये समय
ampere for  इलेक्ट्रिक  current
kelvin  लिये तापमान
candela for  चमकदार  intensity
mole for the amount  of पदार्थ  .
The SI base quantities form a set of mutually  स्वतंत्र आयाम as जरूरी by आयामी विश्लेषण  commonly employed in science and technology .
However  , in a दिए realization of ये  units they may well be interdependent , i.e . defined in terms of each other .
The names of SI units are written in lowercase characters  ( the 'degree सेल्सियस ' meets  this rule , as 'degree ' is the unit , and 'Celsius ' is a modifier ) .
The symbols of units are written in lowercase ( e.g . metre has the symbol m ) , except that symbols for units named after persons  हैं लिखा  with an initial capital letter ( e.g. , the hertz has the uppercase symbol Hz ) .
Many other units , such as the litre ( US English : liter ) , are formally not  भाग of the si , लकिन हैं  accepted for use with SI .
Monument  canyon
Colorado National Monument ( locally referred to as The Monument ) is a part of the National Park Service near  the नगर of ग्रैंड जंक्शन  , Colorado .
Spectacular  canyons काटें गहन into sandstone और  even granite–gneiss–schist rock formations , in some areas .
This is an area of desert land high on  the कोलोराडो पठार , साथ पिनियन  and juniper forests on the plateau .
The park hosts a wide range of  वन्यजीव , सहित red-tailed चीलों  and golden eagles , ravens , jays , desert bighorn sheep , and coyotes .
Activities include hiking , horseback riding , road bicycling , and scenic drives ; a  आगंतुक बीच on the  west side contains a natural history museum and gift shop .
There are magnificent views from trails and the Rim  चट्टान ड्राइव , जिससे हवाएँ साथ the  plateau .
Nearby are the Book Cliffs , and the largest  flat-topped पहाड़ in the संसार  , the Grand Mesa .
Its feature attraction is Monument Canyon , which runs the width of the park , and includes rock formations such as  स्वतंत्रता स्मारक , the  Kissing Couple , and Coke Ovens .
The monument includes 20,500 acres ( 32 square miles ) , much of which has been recommended to  कॉंग्रेस लिये नामांकन  as wilderness .
left to  सही : यूटिलिटी  Uniform , Blue Dress Uniform , Service Uniform , and Evening Dress uniforms
The Uniforms of the United States Marine Corps serve to distinguish  marines इससे सदस्यों of अन्य  services .
Among current uniforms in the United States  हथियारबंद शक्तियां , the marines ' वर्दी  have been in service the longest .
The Marine Dress Blue uniform has , with few changes , been worn in essentially its current form since  the 19th सदी  .
North American telephone  क्षेत्रफल कोड 419 और 567 serve the  northwest quadrant of the U.S. state of Ohio .
The largest city served by these area codes is Toledo ( and its suburbs of Holland , Maumee , Northwood , Oregon , Ottawa Hills ,  perrysburg , rossford , sylvania , swanton , waterville  , and Whitehouse ) .
Other cities served by these area codes include Ada , Ashland , Bellevue , Bluffton , Bowling Green , Bryan , Bucyrus , Celina , Clyde , Crestline , Defiance , Delphos , Edison , Erastus , Findlay , Fostoria , Fremont , Galion , Kenton , Lima , Mansfield , Mount Gilead , Napoleon , Norwalk , Oak Harbor , Port Clinton , Sandusky ,  शेल्बी , st. marys , tiffin , अपर sandusky , वैन wert , wapakoneta  , Wauseon , Willard .
Other areas served include the Lake Erie Islands north of   Port Clinton and west of Sandusky .
The main area code , 419 , was created as one of the  असली क्षेत्रफल कोड in अक्तूबर  1947 ; the overlay area code 567 was created on January 1 , 2002 .
Despite the presence of Toledo , the state 's fourth-largest city , 419 was  the पिछला of ओहियो 's असली चार क्षेत्रफल कोड to have  been split or overlaid .
Mickey Leroy  gilley ( born  March 9 , 1936 ) is an American country music singer and musician .
Although he started out singing straight-up country  और पश्चिमी सामग्री in the 1970s , he स्थानांतरित  towards a more pop -friendly sound in the 1980s , bringing him further success on not just the country charts , but the pop charts as well .
Among his biggest hits are `` Room Full of Roses , '' `` Do n't the Girls All Get Prettier at Closing Time , '' and the remake of the Soul  hit `` स्टैंड by me  `` .
He is also the cousin of Jerry Lee Lewis , Carl  mcvoy , जिम gilley और jimmy swaggart  .
According to the Federal Aviation Administration , Gilley is a licensed pilot , who holds an instrument rating with commercial pilot privileges for  multi-engine airplanes , as खूब as निजी पायलट  privileges for single engine aircraft .
The September  11 हमले ( भी referred  to as September 11 , September 11th , or 9/11 ) were a series of four coordinated terrorist attacks launched by the Islamic terrorist group al-Qaeda upon the United States in New York City and the Washington , D.C. area on September 11 , 2001 .
Four passenger airliners  यहूद hijacked by  19 al-Qaeda terrorists so they could be flown into buildings in suicide attacks .
Two of those planes , American Airlines Flight  11 और संयुक्त एयरलाइंस उड़ान 175 , यहूद क्रैश into the उत्तर और दक्षिण मीनारें  , respectively , of the World Trade Center complex in New York City .
Within two hours , both towers collapsed with debris and the resulting fires causing partial or complete collapse of all other  इमारतें in the wtc जटिल , as खूब as प्रमुख क्षति to टेन अन्य विशाल surrounding  structures .
A third plane , American Airlines  उड़ान 77 , थी क्रैश into the प्रस्तुतीकरण ( the मुख्यालय  of the United States Department of Defense ) , leading to a partial collapse in its western side .
The fourth plane , United Airlines Flight 93 ,  थी targeted at the संयुक्त राज्य कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , लकिन क्रैश into a फ़ील्ड  near Shanksville , Pennsylvania , after its passengers tried to overcome the hijackers .
In total , almost 3,000 people died in the attacks , including the 227 civilians and 19  hijackers सवार  the four planes .
suspicion  quickly fell on al-Qaeda .
Although the group 's leader , Osama bin Laden , initially denied  कोई भागीदारी , in  2004 he claimed responsibility for the attacks .
Al-Qaeda and bin Laden cited U.S. support of Israel , the presence of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia  , और प्रतिबंधों विरूद्ध इराकी as motives  for the attacks .
The United States responded to the attacks by launching the War on Terror and invading Afghanistan to depose the  तालिबान , जिससे था harbored al-qaeda  .
Many countries strengthened  उनके anti-terrorism विधान  and expanded law enforcement powers .
Having evaded capture  लिये सालो , बिन  Laden was located and killed by U.S. forces in May 2011 .
The destruction of the  जुड़वा मीनारें और अन्य गुण caused  serious damage to the economy of Lower Manhattan and had a significant effect on global markets .
क्लीनअप of the संसार व्यापार बीच  site was completed in May 2002 , and the Pentagon was repaired within a year .
Numerous memorials have been constructed , including the National September 11  मेमोरियल & संग्रहालय in नई यॉर्क , the प्रस्तुतीकरण मेमोरियल , और  the Flight 93 National Memorial in Pennsylvania .
After a lengthy delay , the  एक संसार व्यापार बीच is अपेक्षित  to be completed at Ground Zero in New York City in 2013 .
Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated  comedy-drama एडवेंचर  film written and directed by Andrew Stanton , released by Walt Disney Pictures , and the fifth film produced by Pixar Animation Studios .
It tells the story of the over-protective clownfish named Marlin ( Albert Brooks ) who , along with a regal tang named Dory (  एलेन degeneres ) , खोज लिये उसके abducted  son Nemo ( Alexander Gould ) all the way to Sydney Harbour .
Along the way , Marlin learns to take risks and  let nemo लो परवाह of खुद  .
It is Pixar 's first film to be released in  cinemas in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध  summer .
The film was re-released for  the पहला समय in 3d on सितंबर 14 ,  2012 , and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4 , 2012 .
A  sequel , ढूंढना dory , is फिलहाल  in development , set to be released on November 25 , 2015 .
The film received universal critical acclaim and won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature , and was nominated in three  अधिक श्रेणी  including Best Original Screenplay .
It was the second highest-grossing film of 2003 , earning a total  of $ 921 लाख विश्वव्यापी  .
Finding Nemo is also the best-selling DVD of all time , with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006 , and was the  highest-grossing g-rated फिल्मी of सब समय पहले  Pixar 's own Toy Story 3 overtook it .
it is भी the 23rd highest-grossing फिल्मी of सब  time , as well as the 3rd highest-grossing animated film .
In 2008  , the अमरीकी  Film Institute named it the tenth greatest animated film ever made during their Top 10 .
The sixth season of America 's Best Dance Crew , also known as America 's Best Dance Crew  : ऋतु of the सुपरस्टार , premiered on अप्रैल 7 , 2011 और concluded on जून 5  , 2011 .
auditions यहूद आयोजित in चार शहरों इससे  January 21 through February 5 : Chicago , Houston , New York , and Los Angeles .
This season takes a different  रूट इससे पास्ट सीज़न  .
The crews must perform to the music of one  विशिष्ट कलाकार प्रत्येक सप्ताह , सहित रिहाना  , Lil Wayne , and other popular stars .
This season also features special guest appearances by various  म्यूज़िक हस्तियाँ सहित जस्टिन बीबर  , The Black Eyed Peas , Katy Perry , Kesha , Nicki Minaj , and Kanye West .
Dominic ``  d-trix '' sandoval , a पूर्व सदस्य of क्वेस्ट क्रू  , the winner of the third season of America 's Best Dance Crew , joins returning judges Lil Mama and JC Chasez as the newest judge .
In the season finale ,  i am me थी घोषित the विजेता  of Season 6 and received the $ 100,000 ( USD ) prize .
In the United  राज्य , सोशल सुरक्षा refers to the old-age , survivors , और विकलांगता  Insurance ( OASDI ) federal program .
The original Social Security Act ( 1935 ) and the current version of the  अधिनियम , as amended , encompass अनेक सोशल  welfare and social insurance programs .
Social  सुरक्षा is primarily वित्तपोषित through  dedicated payroll taxes called Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax ( FICA ) .
Tax deposits  हैं formally entrusted to the संघीय old-age और survivors  Insurance Trust Fund , the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund , the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund , or the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund which comprise the Social Security Trust Fund .
Upward redistribution of income is  जिम्मेदार लिये परिचय  43 % of the projected Social Security shortfall over the next 75 years .
According to economist Martin Feldstein , the combined spending for all social insurance programs in  2003 गठित 37 %  of government expenditure and 7 % of the gross domestic product .
Social Security is currently estimated to keep roughly  40 प्रतिशत of सब अमेरिकी आयु 65  or older out of poverty .
The Social Security Administration is headquartered  in woodlawn , मेरीलैंड  , just west of Baltimore .
The alcohol by volume shown on a bottle  of absinthe .
Alcohol by volume ( abbreviated as ABV , abv , or alc/vol ) is a standard measure of how much alcohol ( ethanol ) is  contained in an alcoholic पेय ( expressed as a प्रतिशत  of total volume ) .
The ABV  मानक is प्रयुक्त विश्वव्यापी  .
In some countries , alcohol by volume is referred to as degrees  gay-lussac ( बाद the  French chemist Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac ) .
Laurel Hollow is a village in the Town of Oyster Bay in Nassau  काउंटी , नई यॉर्क in the संयुक्त राज्य  .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 1,952  at the 2010 census .
Charles John Huffam Dickens ( ; 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870 )  थी an अंग्रेज़ी लेखक  and social critic .
He created some of the world 's most memorable fictional characters  और is generally regarded  as the greatest novelist of the Victorian period .
During his life , his works enjoyed  unprecedented  fame , and by the twentieth century his literary genius was broadly acknowledged by critics and scholars .
His novels  और छोटी कहानियां  continue to be widely popular .
Born in Portsmouth ,  इंग्लैण्ड , डिकेंस बाएँ स्कूल to कार्य in a फैक्टरी  after his father was thrown into debtors ' prison .
Although he had little formal education , his early  impoverishment drove उसे to  succeed .
over उसके करियर he संपादित a साप्ताहिक  journal for 20 years , wrote 15 novels , 5 novellas and hundreds of short stories and non-fiction articles , lectured and performed extensively , was an indefatigable letter writer , and campaigned vigorously for children 's rights , education , and other social reforms .
Dickens sprang to fame  साथ the 1836 सीरियल प्रकाशन  of The Pickwick Papers .
Within a few years he  था become an अंतरराष्ट्रीय  literary celebrity , famous for his humour , satire , and keen observation of character and society .
His novels , most published in monthly or weekly instalments , pioneered the serial publication of narrative fiction  , जिससे became the प्रबल विक्टोरियन  mode for novel publication .
The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience 's reaction , and he often modified his plot and  अक्षर विकास आधारित on ऐसे  feedback .
For example , when his wife 's chiropodist expressed distress at the way Miss Mowcher in David  कॉपरफील्ड लगा to प्रतिबिंबित उसके disabilities , डिकेंस  went on to improve the character with positive lineaments .
Fagin in Oliver Twist apparently mirrors the famous fence Ikey Solomon ; His caricature of Leigh  हंट in the फिगर of mr skimpole in bleak हाउस थी likewise toned bas on सलाह इससे  some of his friends , as they read episodes .
In the same novel , both Lawrence Boythorne and Mooney the beadle are  drawn इससे रियल जीवन – boythorne इससे  Walter Savage Landor and Mooney from 'Looney ' , a beadle at Salisbury Square .
His plots were carefully constructed , and Dickens often wove in elements from topical events  into उसके कहानियां .
masses of the अनपढ़ ग़रीब chipped  in ha'pennies to have each new monthly episode read to them , opening up and inspiring a new class of readers .
Dickens was regarded as the literary  colossus of उसके  age .
His 1843 novella , A Christmas Carol , is one of the most influential works ever written ,  और it remains लोकप्रिय और continues  to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre .
His  रचनात्मक प्रतिभाशाली रै महरूम praised by fellow  writers—from Leo Tolstoy to G. K. Chesterton and George Orwell —for its realism , comedy , prose style , unique characterisations , and social criticism .
On the other hand Oscar Wilde , Henry James and Virginia Woolf complained of a lack of psychological depth , loose  लिखने , और a रग of  saccharine sentimentalism .
मार्टिन लूथर किंग  and other civil rights leaders in front of the statue of Abraham Lincoln , August 28 , 1963
The civil rights movement was a series of worldwide  राजनैतिक आंदोलनों लिये समता पहले  the law that peaked in the 1960s .
In many situations it took the form of campaigns of civil resistance  aimed at achieving बदलें by nonviolent  forms of resistance .
In some  परिस्थितियों it थी accompanied  , or followed , by civil unrest and armed rebellion .
The process was long and tenuous in many countries , and many of these movements did not fully achieve their goals although , the efforts of  ये आंदोलनों  did lead to improvements in the legal rights of previously oppressed groups of people .
The main aim of the civil rights movement included , and include  , ensuring कि  the rights of all people are equally protected by the law , including the rights of minorities .
Civil  अधिकारों आंदोलनों ranging इससे the वैश्विक lgbt  rights movement to the global Women 's rights movement to various racial minority rights movements around the world continue .
The 2010 FIFA World Cup was the 19th FIFA World Cup , the  संसार चैंपियनशिप लिये मेन 's नेशनल  association football teams .
It took place  in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी  from 11 June to 11 July 2010 .
The bidding process for hosting the tournament finals was open only to African nations ; in 2004 , the international football federation , FIFA , selected South Africa over Egypt and Morocco to become the first   African nation to host the finals .
The matches were played in ten stadiums in nine host cities around the country , with the final played  at the सॉकर नगर स्टेडियम in दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी 's  largest city , Johannesburg .
Thirty-two teams were selected for participation  via  a worldwide qualification tournament that began in August 2007 .
In the first round of the tournament finals , the  टीमों competed in round-robin  groups of four teams for points , with the top two teams in each group proceeding .
These sixteen teams advanced to the knockout stage , where three rounds of play decided  जिससे टीमों  would participate in the final .
In the final , Spain , the European champions , defeated third-time finalists the Netherlands 1–0 after extra time , with Andrés Iniesta 's goal in the 116th minute giving Spain their first world title  , बनने the आठवीं स्वदेश to जीत the टूर्नामेंट , और the पहला यूरोपीय स्वदेश to जीत the टूर्नामेंट  outside its home continent .
मेजबान स्वदेश दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी , 2006 संसार champions इटली और 2006 runners-up फ़्रांस यहूद सब eliminated in the पहला गोलाकार of the टूर्नामेंट  .
It was the first time that the hosts  यहूद eliminated in the  first round .
New Zealand with their three draws were the only undefeated team in the tournament , but  यहूद भी eliminated in the पहला गोलाकार  .
The McMuffin is a family  of  breakfast sandwiches in various sizes and configurations , sold by the fast-food restaurant chain McDonald 's .
The Egg  mcmuffin is the हस्ताक्षर नाश्ता  sandwich ; it was invented by the late McDonald 's franchisee Herb Peterson in the late 1960s and was introduced nationwide in 1972 .
John Lennon was an English musician who gained worldwide fame as one of the  संस्थापकों of the बीटल्स , लिये उसके  subsequent solo career , and for his political activism and pacifism .
He  थी शॉट by चिह्नित दाउद chapman at the प्रवेश of  the building where he lived , The Dakota , in New York City on 8 December 1980 .
Lennon had just returned from Record Plant Studio  साथ उसके बीवी ,  Yoko Ono .
Lennon was pronounced dead on arrival at St. Luke's-Roosevelt  हॉस्पिटल बीच , जहाँ it थी  stated that nobody could have lived for more than a few minutes after sustaining such injuries .
Shortly after local news stations reported Lennon 's death , crowds gathered at  रूज़वेल्ट हॉस्पिटल और in सामने of  the Dakota .
Lennon was cremated on 10 December 1980 at the Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale , New  यॉर्क ; the राख यहूद दिए to ओनो  , who chose not to hold a funeral for him .
The first  रपट of लेनन 's मौत to a u.S. नेशनल दर्शक  was announced by Howard Cosell , on ABC 's Monday Night Football .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a major  संयुक्त राज्य बंदरगाहों और the  largest city and metropolitan area in the state of Louisiana .
The population of the city  थी 343,829 as of the  2010 U.S. Census .
The New Orleans metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल ) था a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,167,764 in 2010  and was the 46th largest in the United States .
The New  orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त  Statistical Area , a larger trading area , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans , a city located  on the loire नदी in केन्द्र , फ़्रांस , और is खूब ज्ञात लिये  its distinct French Creole architecture , as well as its cross-cultural and multilingual heritage .
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine , music (  विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ) , और  its annual celebrations and festivals , most notably Mardi Gras .
The city is often referred to as the  `` सबसे अद्वितीय  '' in America .
New Orleans is located in southeastern Louisiana  , straddling the मिसिसिपी  River .
The city  और ऑरलियन्स  Parish ( ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by the  parishes of st. tammany to the उत्तर ,  St. Bernard to the east , Plaquemines to the south and Jefferson to the south and west .
Lake Pontchartrain , part of which is included in the city limits , lies to  the उत्तर और झील  Borgne lies to the east .
The United States presidential election of 1968 was the 46th quadrennial presidential  चुनाव , आयोजित on मंगलवार , नवम्बर 5  , 1968 .
The Republican nominee , former Vice-President Richard Nixon , won the  चुनाव over the लोकतांत्रिक  nominee , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on a  अभियान कि  promised to restore law and order to the nation 's cities , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the  चुनाव of 1968 is a realigning चुनाव as it permanently  disrupted the New Deal Coalition that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
Coming four years after Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won in a historic landslide , the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican elected for  the पहला समय in बारह सालो  .
It was a wrenching national experience , conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King , Jr. , and subsequent race riots across the  स्वदेश , the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक  presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy , widespread opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses , and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
The election featured the strongest third party effort  चूंकि 1912 by पूर्व अलबामा राज्यपाल  George Wallace , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention  in the दक्षिण to समाप्त  school segregation , he carried the Deep South and ran well in ethnic industrial districts in the North .
इस थी the पिछला चुनाव in जिससे  New York had the most votes in the electoral college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census , California gained the most electoral votes and has  remained the सबसे  populous state since then .
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won  बगैर carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी  's home state .
Karak ( ; also known as Garak , Garrak , and  gorg ) is a गाँव in gamasiyab ग्रामीण ज़िला , in  the Central District of Nahavand County , Hamadan Province , Iran .
At the 2006 census , its population was 294 , in 65  परिवारों .
Kurt 's  हस्ताक्षर
Kurt Donald  कोबेन ( फ़रवरी 20 , 1967 – अप्रैल  5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and artist , best known as the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain  formed निर्वाण साथ krist novoselic in एबरडीन  , Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success with `` Smells Like Teen Spirit ``  इससे  its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success  of nevermind , निर्वाण थी labeled  `` the flagship band '' of Generation X , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and artistic  दृष्टि to have महरूम misinterpreted by the पब्लिक , साथ उसके निजी मुद्दे प्रायः  subject to media attention .
He  challenged निर्वाण  's audience with its final studio album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , Cobain  struggled साथ हेरोइन व्यसन  , illness and depression .
He also had difficulty coping with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong  निजी pressures  surrounding himself and his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April  8 , 1994 , कोबेन  was found dead at his home in Seattle , the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the head .
The circumstances of his death at age 27  have become a टॉपिक of पब्लिक fascination  and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana ,  साथ कोबेन as a songwriter , रै  sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
A millwright is a craftsman or tradesman engaged with the construction and  मेंटेनेंस  of machinery .
More generally in the English  बोलना संसार , जल्दी millwrights यहूद विशेषज्ञ  carpenters who erected machines used in agriculture , food processing and processing lumber and paper .
In the early part of the Industrial Revolution , their skills  यहूद दबाया into सेवा  building the earliest powered textile mills .
Modern millwrights work with steel and other materials in addition to wood and must often combine the skills of several skilled trades in order to successfully fabricate  औद्योगिक मशीनरी or to इकट्ठे मशीने इससे pre-fabricated  parts .
The modern millwright  जरूर भी be समर्थ to पढ़ा blueprints और अन्य  schematics to aid him in the construction of complex systems .
Millwrights are frequently unionized , with around 45  % unionized in the us , हालांकि अनुभवी millwrights  often set themselves up as independent contractors .
The Adjustment  ब्यूरो is a 2011 अमरीकी रोमांटिक कार्रवाई  thriller film loosely based on the Philip K. Dick short story , `` Adjustment Team `` .
The film was written and  निर्देशित by  George Nolfi and stars Matt Damon and Emily Blunt .
The cast also includes  एंथोनी mackie , जॉन  Slattery , Michael Kelly , and Terence Stamp .
The score was composed by Thomas Newman , with two   songs by Richard Ashcroft ( `` Future 's Bright '' for the opening sequence ; `` Are You Ready ? '' for the closing credits ) .
Sodium azide is  the अकार्बनिक  compound with the formula NaN3 .
This colorless salt is the  gas-forming घटक in अनेक car एयरबैग  systems .
It is used for the preparation of other  azide  compounds .
It is an ionic substance , is  अत्यधिक घुलनशील in जल  , and is very acutely toxic .
Double rainbow and supernumerary rainbows on  the अंदर of the प्राथमिक चाप  .
The shadow of the  फ़ोटोग्राफ़र 's सिर  on the bottom marks the centre of the rainbow circle ( antisolar point ) .
A rainbow is an optical and meteorological phenomenon that is caused by reflection of light in water droplets in the Earth 's atmosphere , resulting in a spectrum  of लाइट appearing in the आसमान  .
It  takes the  form of a multicoloured arc .
rainbows caused by धूप  always appear in the section of sky directly opposite the sun .
In a `` primary  रेनबो '' , the चाप shows  red on the outer part and violet on the inner side .
This rainbow is caused by light being refracted while entering a  droplet of जल , तब reflected अंदर on the  back of the droplet and refracted again when leaving it .
In a double rainbow , a second arc is seen outside the primary arc , and has the order of its colours reversed ,  रेड facing toward the अन्य एक , in दोनो rainbows .
This second rainbow is  caused by लाइट reflecting  twice inside water droplets .
The Conservative Party , officially the Conservative and Unionist Party and colloquially referred to as the Tory Party or the Tories , is a  centre-right राजनैतिक पार्टी in the संयुक्त किंगडम कि espouses the तत्त्वज्ञान  of conservatism and British unionism .
it is the largest political party in the United Kingdom , being the  largest सिंगल पार्टी in the हाउस  of Commons with 303 MPs , the largest party in local government with 9,391 councillors , and the largest British party in the European Parliament with 25 MEPs .
It governs in coalition with the Liberal Democrats , with  पार्टी नेता दाउद cameron  as Prime Minister .
The Conservative Party was founded in 1834 , and was one  of दो प्रबल पार्टियों in the 19th सदी  , along with the Liberal Party .
It changed its  नाम to the रूढ़िवादी और यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी in 1912 बाद विलय साथ the  Liberal Unionist Party , although that name is rarely used and it is generally referred to as simply the Conservative Party .
In the 1920s , the Liberal  vote greatly  diminished and the Labour Party became the Conservatives ' main rivals .
Conservative Prime Ministers led governments for 57  सालो of the 20th सदी , सहित विंस्टन चर्चिल  ( 1940–45 , 1951–55 ) and Margaret Thatcher ( 1979–90 ) .
Thatcher 's tenure led to wide-ranging economic liberalisation and saw the  conservatives become the  most eurosceptic of the three major parties .
The party was returned to government in coalition , having failed to win a majority , in 2010 under the more ``  उदार '' नेतृत्व of दाउद cameron  .
In the European Parliament , the Conservatives are the largest British party with 25 MEPs , who sit with the soft eurosceptic  यूरोपीय conservatives और reformists ( ecr ) संसदीय समूह , जबकि the पार्टी itself is a सदस्य of the गठबंधन  of European Conservatives and Reformists ( AECR ) Europarty .
They are the third-largest party in the Scottish  पार्लियामेंट और second-largest  in the Welsh Assembly .
They were formally  अलाइड to the ulster यूनियनिस्ट पार्टी ( uup ) as भाग of  the Ulster Conservatives and Unionists arrangement , with the UUP currently participating in the five-party Northern Ireland Executive .
Destiny 's Child was an American R & B girl group whose final , and perhaps most recognizable , line-up  comprised  Beyoncé Knowles , Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams .
Formed in 1990 in  ह्यूस्टन , टेक्सास , नियति  's Child members began their musical endeavors as Girl 's Tyme comprising , among others , Knowles , Rowland , LaTavia Roberson and LeToya Luckett .
After years of  सीमित कामयाबी , वे यहूद  signed to Columbia Records as Destiny 's Child .
Destiny 's Child was launched into mainstream recognition following the release of their best-selling second album , The Writing 's on the Wall , which contained  the number-one singles `` बिल्स , बिल्स  , Bills `` and `` Say My Name `` .
Despite  नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी , the समूह थी plagued  by internal conflict and legal turmoil , as Roberson and Luckett attempted to split from the group 's manager Mathew Knowles , citing favoritism of Knowles and Rowland , his daughter and niece , respectively .
Both Roberson and Luckett were soon replaced with Williams and Farrah Franklin ; however  , in 2000 , फ्रैंकलिन थी बर्खास्त  , leaving them as a trio .
Their third album , Survivor , which contains themes the public interpreted as a channel to  the समूह 's अनुभव  , contains the worldwide hits `` Independent Women `` , `` Survivor `` and `` Bootylicious `` .
In 2002 , they announced a hiatus and  re-united दो सालो  later for the release of their fourth studio album , Destiny Fulfilled ( 2004 ) .
Destiny 's Child has sold more than 50 million  रिकॉर्ड विश्वव्यापी  to date .
Billboard magazine ranks the group as one  of the महानतम musical trios of सब समय , the नवीं  most successful artist/band of the 2000s , and placed the group 68th in its All-Time Hot 100 Artists list in 2008 .
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) is a United States federal agency under the Department of  स्वास्थ्य और इंसान सेवाएं headquartered in druid पहाड़ियाँ , unincorporated  DeKalb County , Georgia , in Greater Atlanta .
It works to protect public health and safety by providing information to  बढ़ाएँ स्वास्थ्य निर्णय  , and it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations .
The CDC focus national attention on developing and applying disease prevention and control ( especially infectious diseases and foodborne pathogens and other microbial infections ) , environmental  स्वास्थ्य , occupational सुरक्षा और स्वास्थ्य , स्वास्थ्य प्रमोशन , चोट रोकथाम और  education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United States .
The CDC is the United States ' national  पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य संस्थान और is a founding  member of the International Association of National Public Health Institutes .
Earthquake prediction `` is usually defined as the specification of the  समय , स्थान , और परिमाण  of a future earthquake within stated limits '' , and particularly of `` the next strong earthquake to occur in a region . ''
This  can be विशिष्ट इससे भूकंप forecasting  , which is the probabilistic assessment of general earthquake hazard , including the frequency and magnitude of damaging earthquakes , in a given area over periods of years or decades .
This can be further distinguished from real-time  भूकंप चेतावनी प्रणालियों , जिससे , upon डिटेक्शन of a कठोर भूकंप  , can provide neighboring regions a few seconds warning of potentially significant shaking .
To be useful , an earthquake prediction must be  precise पर्याप्त to वारंट the लागत of increased  precautions , including disruption of ordinary activities and commerce , and timely enough that preparation can be made .
Predictions must also be reliable , as false alarms and cancelled alarms are not only  economically costly , लकिन seriously undermine विश्वास in  , and thereby the effectiveness of , any kind of warning .
With over 7,000 earthquakes around the world each year with a magnitude of 4.0 or  वृहद , नगण्य कामयाबी in भूकंप भविष्यवाणी is easily  obtained using sufficiently broad parameters of time , location , or magnitude .
however , ऐसे  trivial `` successful predictions '' are not useful .
Major earthquakes are often followed by reports that they were predicted , or at least  anticipated , लकिन no अर्जी of a कामयाब भविष्यवाणी of a प्रमुख भूकंप रै  survived close inquiry .
In the 1970s there was  तीव्र आशावाद amongst वैज्ञानिकों कि कुछ विधि of  predicting earthquakes might be found , but by the 1990s continuing failure led many scientists to question whether it was even possible .
While many scientists still hold that , given enough resources , prediction might be possible , many others maintain that earthquake  भविष्यवाणी is inherently नामुमकिन  .
Deborah Ann `` Debby '' Ryan ( born May 13 , 1993 )  is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री , सिंगर  , musician , songwriter and record producer .
Ryan is best known for starring as Bailey  पिकेट in the डिज़्नी चैनल  Original Series The Suite Life on Deck .
In 2008 , The Suite Life on Deck ranked as TV 's top series among kids 6-11 and the No . 2 scripted series  among tweens 9-14  .
Ryan started acting in professional theatres at  the  age of seven ; in 2007 she appeared in the Barney & Friends straight-to-DVD film Barney : Let 's Go to the Firehouse and then was discovered in a nationwide search by Disney .
She is also known for appearing in the 2008  विशेषता फिल्मी the  Longshots as Edith .
In 2009 , she guest starred in  an एपीसोड of wizards of waverly प्लेस in wizards on डेक साथ हन्ना  Montana as Bailey Pickett along with her other cast mates from The Suite Life on Deck .
Then , in 2010 , she  स्ट्रक्चर in the फिल्मी 16 बधाइयां , जिससे थी the  most watched cable program on the day of its premiere on the Disney Channel .
16 Wishes  introduced रयान to नई ऑडियंस ; the फिल्म प्राप्त ऊँची viewership in the वयस्कों जनसांख्यिकी ( 18-34 ) .
Soon after that ,  रयान स्ट्रक्चर in the स्वतंत्र नाट्य  film , What If ... , which premiered on August 20 , 2010 .
Ryan also starred in the new Disney Channel Original movie , Radio Rebel , where she portrays  the भूमिका of tara एडम्स , a शर्मीले 17-year-old लड़की जो  adopts the radio personality , Radio Rebel .
released  February 17 , 2012 .
Ryan stars in  the titular भूमिका in the  Disney Channel Original Series , Jessie .
Stührling Tourbillon  गति  ( ) .
In horology , a tourbillon ( ; `` whirlwind '' ) is an  जोड to the यांत्रिकी of  a watch escapement .
Developed around 1795 by the French-Swiss watchmaker Abraham-Louis Breguet from an earlier idea by the English chronometer  मेकर जॉन अर्नाल्ड , a tourbillon aims to काउंटर the प्रभाव of गम्भीरता by mounting the escapement और  balance wheel in a rotating cage , to negate the effect of gravity when the timepiece ( thus the escapement ) is stuck in a certain position .
Originally an attempt to improve accuracy , tourbillons are still included in some  महंगी आधुनिक घड़ियाँ as a विलक्षणता  and demonstration of watchmaking virtuosity .
The mechanism is usually  उजागर on the देखें 's फेस  to show it off .
The Windows Installer ( previously known as Microsoft Installer ) is a software component used for the installation ,  मेंटेनेंस , और हटाना of तन्त्र on आधुनिक  Microsoft Windows systems .
The installation information , and often the files themselves  , हैं packaged in संस्थापना पैकेज , loosely  relational databases structured as COM Structured Storages and commonly known as `` MSI files '' , from their default file extension .
Windows Installer contains significant changes from its  पूर्ववर्ती , सेटअप  API .
New features include a GUI  फ्रेमवर्क और स्वचालित  generation of the uninstallation sequence .
Windows Installer is positioned as an alternative to stand-alone executable  installer frameworks ऐसे  as older versions of InstallShield and NSIS .
Microsoft encourages third parties to use Windows  installer as the आधार लिये संस्थापना frameworks , so कि वे synchronize  correctly with other installers and keep the internal database of installed products consistent .
Important features such as rollback and  versioning निर्भर on a सतत  internal database for reliable operation .
Furthermore , Windows Installer facilitates the principle of least privilege by  performing तन्त्र संस्थापना by प्रॉक्सी लिये unprivileged उपयोक्ता  .
Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages , originally marketed  as उर्जा पेय , बेची by phusion  Projects of Chicago , Illinois .
Phusion  operates as पेय  Four Brewing Company .
Four Loko , the company 's most popular beverage  , debuted in the संयुक्त  States market in 2005 .
It  is अभी बेची in 48 राज्य  , and in Canada , The Bahamas , Bolivia , Honduras , and Europe .
The name `` Four '' is derived from the original energy drink 's four main ingredients :  दारू , कैफीन , taurine , और  guarana .
Four branded products have been the object of legal , ethical ,  और स्वास्थ्य चिंताएं सम्बन्धित to the कम्पनी allegedly  marketing them to the underaged and the purported danger of combining alcohol and caffeine .
बाद the पेय थी बैन in अनेक राज्य , a उत्पाद reintroduction  in December 2010 removed caffeine , taurine , and guarana as ingredients , and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink .
The neck of a guitar showing the nut ( in the background ,  coloured श्वेत ) और पहला  four metal frets .
A fret  is a उठाया तत्व on the  neck of a stringed instrument .
Frets usually extend across the full width   of the neck .
On most modern  पश्चिमी fretted यंत्र  , frets are metal strips inserted into the fingerboard .
On some historical  यंत्र और non-european यंत्र ,  frets are made of pieces of string tied around the neck .
Frets divide the neck into fixed segments  at intervals सम्बन्धित to a  musical framework .
On instruments such as guitars , each fret  represents एक semitone in the मानक  western system where one octave is divided into twelve semitones .
Fret is often used as a verb , meaning  बस `` to दबायें  down the string behind a fret . ''
Fretting often refers to the  frets and/or  their system of placement .
There was consumption of  दारू दोनो दौरान  and after prohibition .
The 18th Amendment prohibited the production , distribution and  बिक्री of alcoholic पेय in the संयुक्त राज्य और थी widely समर्थित  by the American public when it went into effect in 1920 .
The  temperance गति था popularized  the belief that alcohol was the major cause of most personal and social problems and prohibition was seen as the solution to the nation 's poverty , crime , violence , and other ills .
Upon ratification of the amendment , the famous  इंजीलवादी बिली संडे कहा कि ``  The slums will soon be only a memory .
we होगा फेरे हमारी जेलों into कारखानों  and our jails into storehouses and corncribs . ''
(  compare christianity  and alcohol . )
Since alcohol was to be banned and since it was seen as the  कारण of सबसे , if नहीं सब , अपराधों , कुछ  communities sold their jails .
The nation was highly optimistic and the leading prohibitionist in the United  राज्य कॉंग्रेस confidently asserted  that `` There is as much chance of repealing the Eighteenth Amendment as there is for a hummingbird to fly to the planet Mars with the Washington Monument tied to its tail.”
The metre ( meter in American English ) , ( SI unit symbol : m ; SI dimension symbol : L ) ,  is the आधारभूत ईकाई of लंबाई in the अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रणाली  of Units ( SI ) .
Originally intended to be one ten-millionth of the distance from the Earth 's equator to the North Pole ( at sea level ) , its definition has been periodically refined to reflect  growing ज्ञान of metrology  .
Since 1983 , it has been defined as `` the length of the path travelled by light in vacuum during  a समय अंतराल  of 1/299,792,458 of a second . ''
Geologists exploring Jurassic sedimentary rocks in  makhtesh gadol , negev  Desert , Israel
Geologists explaining the importance of volcanic ash  परतों to विद्यार्थी on फ़ील्ड  in Iceland
A  भूवैज्ञानिक is a वैज्ञानिक जो अध्ययन the ठोस  and liquid matter that constitutes the Earth as well as the processes and history that has shaped it .
Geologists usually  engage in अध्ययन  geology .
Geologists , studying more of an applied science than a theoretical one , must approach Geology  using भौतिकी , रसायन और जीवविज्ञान  as well as other sciences .
Geologists ,  compared to वैज्ञानिकों सगाई in अन्य फ़ील्ड , हैं generally अधिक उजागर  to the outdoors than staying in laboratories ; although some geologists prefer to perform most of their studies in the lab .
Geologists are engaged in exploration for  खनन कंपनियाँ in ढूंढें of धातुओं  , oils , and other Earth resources .
They are also in the forefront of natural hazards and  आपदाओं चेतावनी और शमन  , studying earthquakes , volcanic activity , tsunamis , weather storms , and the like ; their studies are used to warn the general public of the occurrence of these events .
Currently , geologists are also engaged in the discussion of climate  बदलें , as वे पढ़ाई the इतिहास और प्रमाण लिये  this Earth process .
Below is a comprehensive drill and tap size chart for  सब drills , इम्पीरियल  and metric , and taps up to 36.5 mm .
Modern  वैक्यूम tubes , ज़्यादातर  miniature style
In electronics , a vacuum tube , electron tube ( in North America  ) , तापायनिक वाल्व , ट्यूब , or वाल्व is a  device controlling electric current through a vacuum in a sealed container .
The container is often thin  पारदर्शी कांच  in a roughly cylindrical shape .
The  सरलतम वैक्यूम ट्यूब , the डायोड , is essentially  an incandescent light bulb with an added electrode inside .
When the bulb 's filament is heated white-hot , electrons are ``  boiled '' बंद इसके सतह और  into the vacuum inside the bulb .
If the electrode -- called a `` plate '' or `` anode '' -- is made more positive than the hot filament , a direct current flows through  the वैक्यूम to the एलेक्ट्रोड ( a demonstration of the एडिसन  effect ) .
as the वर्तमान तभी  flows in one direction , it makes it possible to convert an alternating current applied to the filament to direct current .
The introduction of a  तीसरा एलेक्ट्रोड  , a grid between the filament and the plate , yields another function .
A voltage applied to the grid controls the  वर्तमान बहती इससे  the filament to the plate .
Thus , it  allows the यंत्र  to be used as an electronic amplifier .
Vacuum tubes are thus used for rectification , amplification , switching , or similar  प्रसंस्करण or सृष्टि of विद्युत सिग्नल  .
The vast majority of modern day  tubes consist of a sealed संग्राहक साथ a वैक्यूम अंदर  , and essentially rely on thermionic emission of electrons from a hot filament or a cathode heated by the filament .
Some  अपवाद to इस हैं dealt साथ  in the section about gas-filled tubes below .
Vacuum   tubes were critical to the development of electronic technology , which drove the expansion and commercialization of radio broadcasting , television , radar , sound reinforcement , sound recording and reproduction , large telephone networks , analog and digital computers , and industrial process control .
Although some applications had counterparts using earlier technologies such as the spark gap transmitter or mechanical computers , it was the invention of the vacuum tube with  तीन electrodes ( पुकारा a ट्रायोड ) और इसके काबिलियत of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  amplification that made these technologies widespread and practical .
In most applications , solid-state  डिवाइस ऐसे as transistors  and other semiconductor devices have replaced tubes .
Solid-state devices last longer and are smaller , more efficient ,  अधिक विश्वसनीय , और सस्ता  than tubes .
Tubes can be fragile , sometimes generate significant unwanted heat , and can take many seconds—many minutes  in नाजुक applications—after powering  on to warm to a temperature where they perform within operational tolerance .
However , tubes still find uses where solid-state devices  have नहीं महरूम विकसित , हैं अव्यवहारिक , or जहाँ a ट्यूब रै श्रेष्ठ प्रदर्शन  , as with some devices in professional audio and high-power radio transmitters .
Tubes are still produced for   such applications .
Tubes  हैं कम संभावित than सेमीकंडक्टर  devices to be destroyed by the electromagnetic pulse produced by nuclear explosions and geomagnetic storms produced by giant solar flares .
Skittles is a brand of fruit-flavoured sweets , currently produced and marketed by the Wm . Wrigley Jr.  कम्पनी , a प्रभाग of मंगल  , Inc .
They have hard sugar  शेल जिससे carry  the letter S .
The inside is mainly sugar , corn syrup , and hydrogenated   palm kernel oil along with fruit juice , citric acid , and natural and artificial flavours .
The confectionery has been sold in a variety of  फ्लेवर संग्रहण , ऐसे as तीव्र  and Wild Berry .
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill , ( 30  नवम्बर 1874 – 24 जनवरी 1965 ) थी a अंग्रेजों राजनेता जो थी  the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 and again from 1951 to 1955 .
Widely regarded as one of the greatest wartime leaders of the 20th century ,  चर्चिल थी भी an अधिकारी in the अंग्रेजों फौज  , a historian , a writer , and an artist .
He is the only British Prime Minister in history to have received the Nobel Prize in Literature , and was also  the पहला व्यक्ति to be बना an मानद नागरिक of the  United States .
Churchill was born into  an वैभवशाली परिवार as the  grandson of the 7th Duke of Marlborough .
His father ,  रब randolph चर्चिल , थी a charismatic राजनेता जो परोसा  as Chancellor of the Exchequer ; his mother , Jennie Jerome , was an American socialite .
As a young army officer , he saw action in British  इण्डिया , the सूडान , और the  Second Boer War .
He  gained कीर्ति as  a war correspondent and wrote books about his campaigns .
At the forefront of  राजनीती लिये पचास सालो , he आयोजित  many political and cabinet positions .
Before the First World War , he served as President of  the फलक of व्यापार , घर सचिव , और  First Lord of the Admiralty as part of the Asquith Liberal government .
During the war , he continued as First Lord  of the admiralty जबतक the विनाशकारी gallipoli  Campaign caused his departure from government .
He then briefly resumed active army service on the Western  सामने as कमांडर of the 6th बटालियन of the royal  Scots Fusiliers .
He returned to government as Minister of Munitions , Secretary of State for War , and  सचिव  of State for Air .
After the War , Churchill served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Conservative ( Baldwin )  सरकारी of 1924–29 , controversially  returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity , a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure on the UK economy .
Also controversial was his opposition to increased  घर नियम लिये इण्डिया और उसके प्रतिरोध to the 1936  abdication of Edward VIII .
Out of office and politically `` in the  wilderness '' दौरान the 1930s , चर्चिल took the  lead in warning about Nazi Germany and in campaigning for rearmament .
On the outbreak of the Second World War , he was again  नियुक्त पहला रब of the  Admiralty .
Following the resignation of  नेविली चेम्बरलेन on 10 may 1940 , चर्चिल  became Prime Minister .
His steadfast refusal to consider defeat , surrender , or a compromise peace helped inspire British resistance , especially during the  मुश्किल जल्दी दिनों of the युद्ध जब ब्रिटेन stood अलोन among यूरोपीय  countries in its active opposition to Adolf Hitler .
Churchill was particularly noted for  उसके भाषणों  and radio broadcasts , which helped inspire the British people .
He led Britain as Prime Minister until victory over Nazi Germany had  महरूम secured  .
After the Conservative Party lost the 1945 election ,  he became नेता of  the Opposition to the Labour ( Attlee ) government .
After winning the 1951 election , he again became  प्रधान मंत्री  , before retiring in 1955 .
Upon his death , Elizabeth II granted him the honour of a state funeral ,  जिससे देखी  one of the largest assemblies of world statesmen in history .
Named  the महानतम briton  of all time in a 2002 poll , Churchill is widely regarded as being among the most influential people in British history .
Ruby Gloom is an animated  टेलीविज़न दिखाएँ  based on an apparel franchise .
The show is produced by  nelvana और began airing on अक्तूबर  13 , 2006 in Canada on the network YTV .
It stars the  आवाज़ें of  Sarah Gadon , Emily Hampshire , and Peter Keleghan .
The Ford Focus is a compact car ( C-segment in Europe ) manufactured by the  घाट मोटर कम्पनी चूंकि  1998 .
Ford began sales of the Focus to  यूरोपीय in जुलाई 1998 और in उत्तर अमेरिका  during 1999 for the 2000 model year .
In Europe , South America , North America and South Africa , the Focus replaced the various  संस्करण of the घाट अनुरक्षण बेची in those  markets .
In Asia and Australasia  , it replaced  the Ford Laser .
As of the first  हाफ of 2012 , the फ़ोकस  surpassed the Toyota Corolla to become the world 's best selling automobile nameplate .
The Focus has been considered one of the 50 greatest cars of the past fifty years by British magazine  car  .
An  आगर थाली -- an  example of a bacterial growth medium .
Specifically , it is a streak plate ; the orange lines and dots are formed by  बैक्टीरियल colonies  .
A growth medium or culture medium is a liquid or gel designed to support the growth of  microorganisms or कोशिकाएं ,  or small plants like the moss Physcomitrella patens .
There are different types of media  लिये growing अलग प्रकार of कोशिकाएं  .
There are two major types of  विकास मीडिया : those  used for cell culture , which use specific cell types derived from plants or animals , and microbiological culture , which are used for growing microorganisms , such as bacteria or yeast .
The  सबसे आम विकास मीडिया लिये microorganisms हैं nutrient broths और आगर  plates ; specialized media are sometimes required for microorganism and cell culture growth .
Some  जीवों , termed सुकुमार जीवों  , require specialized environments due to complex nutritional requirements .
Viruses , for example , are obligate intracellular parasites and require a  विकास मीडियम  containing living cells .
A talent agent , or booking agent , is a person who finds jobs for  अभिनेताओं , लेखक , फिल्मी निर्देशकों  , musicians , models , producers , professional athletes , writers and other people in various entertainment businesses .
An agent also defends , supports and promotes the  ब्याज of his/her  clients .
Agents can not produce their own shows due to  विरोध of ब्याज .
A talent agent  जरूर be  familiar with their clients .
An agent has to  जान कया दयालु of कार्य the  client can and can not do in order to match them with various jobs .
Having an agent is not required , but does  सहायता the कलाकार  in getting jobs .
In many cases casting directors , or  अन्य व्यवसायों , go to हुनर  agencies to find artists they are looking for .
The agent is paid a percentage of the star 's earnings (  typically 10 % ) .
एजेंटों sometimes होगा  be referred to as `` 10 percenters . ''
There are different regulations that govern  अलग प्रकार of एजेंटों कि हैं स्थापित by कलाकार  's unions and the legal jurisdiction in which the agent operates .
वहीँ हैं भी पेशेवर  organizations that license talent agencies .
Since the decline in viewership in theaters , from the 1950s to 1960s , this caused a  स्मारकीय शिफ़्ट in कैसा studios होता उपज films  and thus reducing the cost of exclusive and expensive actors .
अभिनेताओं और अभिनेत्रियों यहूद working  for the studios but were not owned by one major studio entity and so were able to work on within their time and with other studios .
Because of this , agents were now seen as a necessity  बजाय of an विकल्प  .
Agents now became third parties that negotiated  between studios और क्लाइंट , इस बनाना  their services imperative between each party .
Since talent agencies are working with lucrative contracts , all talent agencies must be licensed under special sections of the California Labor Code , which calls an agent a `` person or corporation who engages in  the occupation of procuring , offering , होनहार , or attempting  to procure employment for artist or artists . ''
Mars has two known moons , Phobos and  deimos , जिससे हैं विचार  to be captured asteroids .
Both satellites  यहूद खोजा in 1877 by asaph  Hall and are named after the characters Phobos ( panic/fear ) and Deimos ( terror/dread ) who , in Greek mythology , accompanied their father Ares , god of war , into battle .
Ares  थी ज्ञात as मंगल  to the Romans .
It is possible that  मंगल may have moons छोटी than  50 - 100 meters and a dust ring between Phobos and Deimos may be present but none have been discovered .
In law enforcement  parlance , the पद  murder book refers to the case file of a murder investigation .
Typically , murder  किताबे  include crime scene photographs and sketches , autopsy and forensic reports , transcripts of investigators ' notes and witness interviews .
The murder book encapsulates the complete paper trail of a murder  छानबीन , इससे the समय the हत्या is पहला reported through the गिरफ़्तार  of a suspect .
Law enforcement  एजेंसियों typically गार्ड हत्या किताबे carefully  , and it is unusual for civilians to be given unfettered access to these kinds of records , especially for unsolved cases .
A  melon baller
Melon balls are balls of melon  बना using a melon baller कि varies  from around 1 centimeter to 3 centimeters ( about 3/8 inch to 1 inch ) .
वे हैं generally  used in fruit salad .
A KSA , or Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities  , is a श्रेणी of कथा कथन कि हैं जरूरी जब applying  to United States Federal government job openings .
KSAs are used to  determine , साथ साथ resumes  , who the best applicants are when several candidates qualify for a job .
The knowledge , skills and abilities ( KSAs ) necessary  लिये the कामयाब प्रदर्शन of  a position are contained on each job vacancy announcement .
In 2009 the Office of Personal Management asked federal agencies to stop requiring job applicants to fill out  the questionnaires , to be phased आउट  within a year .
KSAs are brief and  केन्द्रित essays परिचय एक 's करियर और शैक्षणिक  background that presumably qualify one to perform the duties of the position being applied for .
A knowledge , skills , and abilities ( KSA ) is a concise essay about one 's talent and expertise and  सम्बन्धित अनुभवों ( कार्य , शिक्षा , स्वयंसेवी  ) and accomplishments .
A series of KSA statements are usually required when applying for most  संघीय सरकारी  and some state and city government jobs .
KSAs are used as a yardstick to assess the capabilities of a prospective applicant in terms of  संभावित क्षमता to perform the कर्तव्य  of the job .
Most government hiring officials look for a short , crisp and clear KSA that  emphasizes परिणाम or accomplishments  obtained in previous work .
KSA statements are also known  as मूल्यांकन कारकों  .
Other agencies sometimes call them `` Rating  कारकों '' , `` विशेषता रैंकिंग कारकों '' , `` ज्ञान  , Abilities , skills and Other Characteristics '' , or `` Job Elements '' .
The name can be just a name  लकिन प्रायः  it influences content and length of the essay .
Every agency has its own regulations but most of the time  the प्रत्येक ksa फ़ैक्टर चाहिए be 1/2 to 11⁄2 पृष्ठों  long .
The  नीचे परिभाषाएं हैं पारिभाषित by  the U.S. Office of Personnel Management :
Knowledge , Skills , and Abilities ( KSAs ) - The attributes required to perform a  जॉब और हैं  generally demonstrated through qualifying service , education , or training .
Knowledge - Is a body of information  लागू सीधे to the प्रदर्शन  of a function .
Skill - Is an  observable competence to perform  a learned psychomotor act .
Ability - Is  competence to perform an  observable behavior or a behavior that results in an observable product .
The  स्कोरिंग of ksa  essays is based on a scale of from one to 100 .
Job applicants must score above  70 to be माना लिये the स्थिति  .
High scores are derived through answering the KSA question as specifically as possible , providing  उदाहरण इससे पिछला नियुक्ति or प्रशिक्षण कि clearly demonstrate तुम मिलें the  qualifications .
When applying to federal government positions , a Federal  पुनरारंभ is प्रायः जरूरी in जोड  to KSA statements .
सही
Whole grains are cereal grains that contain cereal germ , endosperm , and bran , in  कंट्रास्ट to परिष्कृत दाने , जिससे retain  only the endosperm .
आम पूरे  grains include:
गेहूं
oat
Barley - Hulled and  dehulled (  not Pearl )
मक्का
भूरा राइस
farro
spelt
emmer
einkorn
kamut
rye
बाजरा
quinoa
चौलाई
triticale
teff
sprouted  Grains
buckwheat
Common  पूरे अनाज  products include:
Whole  गेहूं आटा
Whole wheat  ब्रैड
पूरे  wheat Pasta
Rolled  जई or oat  groats
triticale आटा
पॉपकॉर्न
teff  flour
Common refined non-whole  अनाज उत्पाद  include:
Love Always is the debut album of American R & B duo K-Ci  & जोजो , released on जून 17 ,  1997 , by MCA Records .
It was recorded at various studios in New York and the Los  एंजिल्स क्षेत्रफल  in 1996 and 1997 .
It was produced by JoJo and several   others , including DeVante Swing , James Mtume , and Jeff Redd .
The duo were  originally a भाग of jodeci  before this album .
The album  peaked at छठे on the us बिलबोर्ड  200 and also appeared on international charts .
the सिंगल `` सब my जीवन `` charted क्रमांक एक in  multiple countries , and all four of the album 's singles peaked above the top 25 in the US Hot R & B/Hip-Hop Songs and the New Zealand Top 40 Singles .
Love Always was  प्राप्त favorably by आलोचकों ,  who praised the brothers ' singing ability and the production .
The album has been certified three times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and gold by Music  कनाडा और ifpi स्वीडन  .
As of June 1999 it had sold 2.9  लाख नक़ल in the संयुक्त  States .
A variable-rate mortgage , adjustable-rate mortgage ( ARM ) , or tracker mortgage is a mortgage loan with the interest rate on  the नोट periodically समायोजित आधारित on an अनुक्रमणिका  which reflects the cost to the lender of borrowing on the credit markets .
The  ऋण may be offered  at the lender 's standard variable rate/ base rate .
There may be a direct and legally-defined link to the underlying index , but where the  lender offers no विशिष्ट कड़ी to the underlying मार्केट or अनुक्रमणिका the रेट  can be changed at the lender 's discretion .
The term `` variable-rate mortgage '' is most common outside the United States , whilst in the United States , `` adjustable-rate mortgage '' is most common , and implies a mortgage regulated by the  संघीय सरकारी , साथ कैप्स  on charges .
In many  देशों , समायोज्य  rate mortgages are the norm , and in such places , may simply be referred to as mortgages .
Among the most common indices are the rates on  1-year constant-maturity राजकोष (  CMT ) securities , the Cost of Funds Index ( COFI ) , and the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) .
A few lenders  उपयोग उनके अपना लागत  of funds as an index , rather than using other indices .
This is done to ensure a steady  हाशिया लिये the lender , जिनकी  own cost of funding will usually be related to the index .
Consequently , payments made by the borrower may change over time with the  बदलना ब्याज रेट ( alternatively , the  term of the loan may change ) .
This is distinct from the  ग्रैजुएट भुगतान बंधक  , which offers changing payment amounts but a fixed interest rate .
Other forms of mortgage loan include the interest only mortgage , the  फिक्स्ड रेट बंधक , the ऋणात्मक  amortization mortgage , and the balloon payment mortgage .
Adjustable rates transfer part of the  ब्याज रेट रिस्क इससे  the lender to the borrower .
वे can be प्रयुक्त जहाँ मनमौजी  interest rates make fixed rate loans difficult to obtain .
The borrower  लाभ if the ब्याज  rate falls but loses if the interest rate increases .
The borrower benefits from reduced margins to the underlying  लागत of उधार compared to फिक्स्ड or capped  rate mortgages .
The assassination of Robert Francis `` Bobby '' Kennedy , a United States Senator and brother of assassinated President John  fitzgerald `` जोकर '' कैनेडी , took प्लेस shortly बाद मध्यरात्रि on जून 5 , 1968 , in लॉस एंजिल्स , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , during the campaign season for the United States Presidential election , 1968 .
After winning the California and South Dakota primary elections for the  लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य  , Kennedy was shot as he walked through the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel and died in the Good Samaritan Hospital twenty-six hours later .
Sirhan Sirhan , a 24-year-old Palestinian / Jordanian immigrant  , थी convicted of कैनेडी 's हत्या  and is serving a life sentence for the crime .
Sirhan 's lawyers have  released कथन claiming प्रमाण  that he was framed .
The shooting was recorded on  ऑडियो टेप by a freelance समाचारपत्र  reporter , and the aftermath was captured on film .
Kennedy 's  देह lay in repose at st. पैट्रिक 's  Cathedral in New York for two days before a funeral mass was held on June 8 .
उसके देह थी interred  near his brother John at Arlington National Cemetery .
His death prompted the protection  of अध्यक्षीय  candidates by the United States Secret Service .
Hubert Humphrey went on to win the  लोकतांत्रिक नामांकन लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी  , but ultimately narrowly lost the election to Richard Nixon .
As with his brother Jack 's death ,  bobby 's हत्या और the  circumstances surrounding it have spawned a variety of conspiracy theories .
As of 2013 Kennedy remains one of only two sitting United States Senators to be  assassinated ( the अन्य  being Huey Long ) .
The Modern Age of Comic Books is  an अनौपचारिक  name for the period in the history of mainstream American comic books generally considered to last from the mid-1980s until present day .
In this period , comic book characters generally became darker and more psychologically complex ,  creators became better-known  and active in changing the industry , independent comics flourished , and larger publishing houses became more commercialized .
An alternate name for this period is the Dark Age of Comic Books , due to the  लोकप्रियता और कलाकारी influence of grim शीर्षक  , such as and Watchmen .
When Harry Met Sally ... is a 1989 American  रोमांटिक कॉमेडी फिल्मी लिखा by नोरा ephron  and directed by Rob Reiner .
It  सितारों बिली  Crystal as Harry and Meg Ryan as Sally .
The story follows the title characters from the time they meet just before sharing  a cross-country ड्राइव , through बारह सालो or so of मौका मुठभेड़ों  in New York City .
The film raises the question `` Can men and women ever  बस be मित्रों ? '' और अग्रिम अनेक विचार परिचय संबंध  that became household concepts , such as those of the `` '' girlfriend and the `` transitional person '' .
The origins of the film came from Reiner  's वापसी  to single life after a divorce .
An interview Ephron conducted with Reiner provided  the आधार  for Harry .
Sally  थी आधारित on ephron  and some of her friends .
Crystal came on  फलक और बना उसके अपना योगदान  to the screenplay , making Harry funnier .
Ephron supplied the structure of the  फिल्मी साथ much of the संवाद आधारित on the real-life  friendship between Reiner and Crystal .
The soundtrack consists of standards performed by Harry Connick , Jr. , with a big  बैंड और ऑर्केस्ट्रा arranged by मार्क  Shaiman .
Connick won his first Grammy Award for Best Jazz Male Vocal  प्रदर्शन  .
Columbia Pictures released the  फिल्मी using the `` मंच '' तकनीक , जिससे शामिल  opening it in a few select cities , letting positive word of mouth generate interest , and then gradually expanding distribution over subsequent weeks .
When Harry Met Sally ... grossed a total of US $ 92 .8  लाख in उत्तर  America .
Ephron received a British Academy Film  पुरस्कार , an ऑस्कर नामांकन , और a लेखक  Guild of America Award nomination for her screenplay .
The film is ranked 23rd on AFI 's 100 Years ... 100  हंसते सूची of the शीर्ष कॉमेडी films in अमरीकी सिनेमा और  number 60 on Bravo 's `` 100 Funniest Movies '' .
In early 2004 , the film was adapted for the stage in a  उत्पादन अभिनीत ल्यूक पेरी  and Alyson Hannigan .
200px
Hamburger Helper is a line of packaged food products primarily consisting of  boxed पास्ता bundled साथ  a packet or packets of powdered sauce or seasonings .
The contents of each box are combined with browned ground beef ,  जल और मिल्क to बनाएँ  a complete dish .
The product line also features products with  अन्य starches ऐसे as  rice or potatoes instead of pasta .
It is  बना  by General Mills .
Although the classic boxed Hamburger Helper products only supply the starch item and the sauce packets , some  किस्में of the उत्पाद शामिल  ground beef .
These include a frozen food line , which features some of  the ब्रांड 's क्लासिक किस्में in a पूरा भोजन kit रूप  , with frozen ground beef and frozen sauce packaged separately from the noodles in the same bag .
There is also an ``  तत्काल '' संस्करण of हैमबर्गर  Helper containing dehydrated meat , noodles and seasonings in a small pouch , requiring only water to be added .
The Hamburger Helper mascot is the `` Helping Hand '' , an anthropomorphic  एनिमेटेड , चार fingered left-hand दस्ताने , जिससे appears in the उत्पाद 's टेलीविज़न commercials  and on the packages .
ceres as  seen with the Hubble Space Telescope .
It is the  तभी  dwarf planet in the asteroid belt .
प्लूटो in सन्निकट  true colour based on Hubble Space Telescope albedo data
Haumea with its moons ,  hiʻiaka और namaka  ( artist 's conception )
Makemake ( artist 's  धारणा  )
Eris and its moon Dysnomia as seen  साथ the हबल  Space Telescope
A dwarf planet is a planetary-mass object that is neither a  ग्रह nor a उपग्रह  .
More explicitly , the International Astronomical Union ( IAU ) defines a dwarf planet as a  celestial देह in सीधा कक्षा of the सूर्य कि is विशाल  enough for its shape to be controlled by gravitation , but that unlike a planet has not cleared its orbital region of other objects .
The term dwarf planet was adopted in 2006 as part of a three-way categorization of bodies orbiting the Sun ,  brought परिचय by an बढ़ाएँ in discoveries of trans-neptunian वस्तुएँ  that rivaled Pluto in size , and finally precipitated by the discovery of an even more massive object , Eris .
This classification states that bodies large enough to have cleared the neighbourhood of their orbit are   defined as planets , while those that are not massive enough to be rounded by their own gravity are defined as small Solar System bodies .
बौना  planets come in between .
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized ; it  थी कहा to be the `` सही निर्णय '' by माइक भूरा , जो खोजा और अन्य नई बौना ग्रह , लकिन रै महरूम अस्वीकृत by एलन stern  , who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990 .
The IAU currently recognizes  पाँच बौना ग्रह in the सौर प्रणाली  : , Pluto , , , and .
However , only two of these bodies , Ceres and Pluto ,  have महरूम observed in पर्याप्त विवरण to  demonstrate that they fit the definition .
Eris has been accepted as a dwarf planet because it is more  विशाल than  Pluto .
The IAU subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with an absolute magnitude brighter than +1 ( and hence a diameter of ≥838 km assuming a  ज्यामितीय ऐल्बीडो of ≤1 ) हैं to be नामित अंतर्गत the assumption  that they are dwarf planets .
The only two such objects known at the time  , माकेमाके और हउमेया , गई through इस नामकरण  procedure and were declared to be dwarf planets .
It is suspected that another hundred or  so ज्ञात वस्तुएँ in the  Solar System are dwarf planets .
Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire region known as the Kuiper belt is explored , and that the number may exceed  10,000 जब वस्तुएँ बिखरे  outside the Kuiper belt are considered .
Individual astronomers recognize several of these ,  और  in August 2011 Mike Brown published a list of 390 candidate objects , ranging from `` nearly certain '' to `` possible '' dwarf planets . '
Brown  identifies नौ ज्ञात वस्तुएँ – the पाँच स्वीकृत by the iau प्लस  , , , and – as `` virtually certain '' , with another two dozen highly likely , and there are probably a hundred or so such objects in total .
The classification  of लाशें in अन्य ग्रहीय प्रणालियों साथ the विशेषताएँ  of dwarf planets has not been addressed .
A debit card ( also known as a bank card  or जाँच कार्ड ) is a प्लास्टिक भुगतान कार्ड  that provides the cardholder electronic access to his or her bank account ( s ) at a financial institution .
Some cards have a stored value with which a payment is made , while most relay a message  to the cardholder 's  bank to withdraw funds from a payee 's designated bank account .
The card , where accepted , can be used  बजाय of नकदी जब बनाना  purchases .
In some cases , the primary account number is assigned  exclusively लिये उपयोग on the अंतरजाल और  there is no physical card .
In many countries , the use of debit cards has become so widespread  कि उनके आवाज़ रै overtaken or entirely replaced cheques और  , in some instances , cash transactions .
The development of debit cards , unlike credit cards and charge cards , has generally been country specific resulting in a number of different systems around the world , which were  प्रायः असंगत  .
Since the  mid-2000s , a क्रमांक of पहलों have अनुमत  debit cards issued in one country to be used in other countries and allowed their use for internet and phone purchases .
Unlike credit and charge cards , payments using a debit card are  तत्काल transferred इससे the cardholder  's designated bank account , instead of them paying the money back at a later date .
Debit cards usually also allow for instant withdrawal of cash , acting as the ATM card  लिये withdrawing  cash .
Merchants may also offer cashback facilities to customers , where a  ग्राहक can withdraw नकदी साथ साथ उनके  purchase .
Francois Henri `` Jack '' LaLanne ( September 26 , 1914 - January 23 , 2011 ) was an American fitness , exercise , and nutritional expert and motivational speaker who is sometimes called `` the godfather of  फ़िटनेस  '' and the `` first fitness superhero . ''
He described himself as being a  `` sugarholic '' और a `` जंक खाना junkie  '' until he was 15 .
He also had behavioral problems , but `` turned his life around '' after listening to a public lecture by Paul Bragg , a  well-known पोषण स्पीकर  .
During his career , he  आए to मानना कि the देश 's overall  health depended on the health of its population , writing that `` physical culture and nutrition — is the salvation of America . ''
Decades before health and fitness began being promoted by  हस्तियाँ जैसे जेन फोंडा और रिचर्ड  Simmons , LaLanne was already widely recognized for publicly preaching the health benefits of regular exercise and a good diet .
He published numerous books on fitness and hosted a fitness television show  between 1953 और 1985  .
As early as 1936 ,  at आयु 21 , he खोली एक of the स्वदेश 's पहला फ़िटनेस gyms  in Oakland , California , which became a prototype for dozens of similar gyms using his name .
One of his 1950s television exercise programs was aimed  toward महिलाओं , जिसको he  also encouraged to join his health clubs .
He invented a number of exercise  मशीने , सहित  leg-extension and pulley devices .
Besides producing his own series of videos , he coached the  बुजुर्ग और निष्क्रिय नहीं to forgo कसरत  , believing it would enable them to enhance their strength .
LaLanne also gained recognition for his success as a  bodybuilder , as खूब  as for his prodigious feats of strength .
Arnold Schwarzenegger once stated , `` That Jack LaLanne 's an animal ! , ''  बाद lalanne , at 54 , ताल a 21-year-old  Schwarzenegger `` badly '' in an informal contest .
On the  अवसर of lalanne 's मौत , श्वार्ज़नेगर credited lalanne  for being `` an apostle for fitness '' by inspiring `` billions all over the world to live healthier lives , '' and , as governor of California , had earlier placed him on his Governor 's Council on Physical Fitness .
Steve  रीव्स credited lalanne as उसके प्रेरणा to  build his muscular physique while keeping a slim waist .
He was  inducted to the कैलिफ़ोर्निया हॉल  of Fame and has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Air forces of most of  the देशों उपयोग प्रणाली  similar to Armies .
However , the RAF and the air forces of many Commonwealth countries , or those formerly under a British influence , use a different set of ranks loosely based on naval equivalents ; Lieutenant , Commander ,  कप्तान और commodore हैं prefixed लिये एयर फ़ोर्स उपयोग साथ उड़ान , wing , समूह और एयर , क्रमशः ( the पहला तीन होने the  units that they used to command ) .
Penélope Cruz  sánchez ( ; born  April 28 , 1974 ) is a Spanish actress .
Signed by an agent at age 15 , she made her acting debut at 16 on television and her feature film debut the following  साल  in Jamón , jamón ( 1992 ) , to critical acclaim .
Her subsequent roles in the 1990s and 2000s included Open Your Eyes  ( 1997 ) , the hi-lo देश ( 1999 ) , the लड़की of अपना सपनो ( 2000 )  and Woman on Top ( 2000 ) .
Cruz achieved  मान्यता लिये उसके सीसे  roles in the 2001 films Vanilla Sky and Blow .
She has since built a successful career , appearing in films from a wide range of genres , including  the कॉमेडी waking up in रेनो ( 2002 ) , the थ्रिलर gothika (  2003 ) , the Christmas movie Noel ( 2004 ) , and the action adventure Sahara ( 2005 ) .
She has received critical  acclaim लिये उसके भूमिकाएँ in volver  ( 2006 ) and Nine ( 2009 ) receiving Golden Globe and Academy Award nominations for each .
She  जीती the अकादमी  Award for Best Supporting Actress in 2008 for Vicky Cristina Barcelona .
वो थी the पहला स्पेनी अभिनेत्री  in history to receive an Academy Award and the first Spanish actress to receive a star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
Cruz has modeled  लिये कंपनियाँ  such as Mango , Ralph Lauren and L'Oréal .
पेनेलोपे और उसके younger सिस्टर  Mónica Cruz have designed items for Mango .
She has donated both her time  और धन to धर्मार्थ  .
Cruz has volunteered in Uganda and India , where she spent one week working for Mother Teresa ;  वो दान  her salary from ' to help fund the late nun 's mission .
A wax sculpture of Cruz will be placed in a premier spot  in the grevin मोम संग्रहालय  in Paris .
File  एक्सप्लोरर , previously ज्ञात as खिड़कियाँ एक्सप्लोरर  , is a file manager application and also a navigation tool that is included with releases of the Microsoft Windows operating system from Windows 95 onwards .
It provides a  आलेखीय उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस लिये  accessing the file systems .
It is also the component of the operating system that presents many  उपयोक्ता इंटरफ़ेस वस्तुएं on the मॉनिटर ऐसे  as the taskbar and desktop .
Controlling the computer is possible without Windows Explorer running ( for example , the File | Run command in Task Manager on NT-derived  संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ होगा फलन बगैर it , as होगा कमांड typed in a कमांड संकेत खिड़की  ) .
Located in the C : \Windows directory , it is  sometimes referred to as the खिड़कियाँ शेल  , explorer.exe , or simply “Explorer” .
The  परवाह bears हैं वर्ण  created by American Greetings in 1981 for use on greeting cards .
The original artwork  लिये the ताश थी चित्रित by कलाकार  Elena Kucharik .
In 1983 , Kenner turned the Care Bears into  plush टेडी bears .
the परवाह bears appeared in उनके अपना tv specials पुकारा the  Care Bears in the Land Without Feelings ( 1983 ) and The Care Bears Battle the Freeze Machine ( 1984 ) .
They also had their own television series from 1985 to 1988 , in addition to three  विशेषता films : the परवाह bears फिल्म ( 1985 ) , परवाह bears फिल्म ii :  A New Generation ( 1986 ) , and The Care Bears Adventure in Wonderland ( 1987 ) .
प्रत्येक परवाह भालू आता in  a different color and has a specialized insignia on its belly that represents its duty and personality .
This insignia  थी ज्ञात as उनके  `` tummy symbol . ''
However , the movie Care  bears : oopsy  Does It ! renamed them `` belly badges '' .
Adding to the Care Bear family are the `` Care Bear Cousins '' , which  विशेषता a शेर , खरगोश  , penguin , raccoon , and other such animals created in the same style as the teddy bears .
In 2002 , the bears were reintroduced  साथ नई खिलौने .
बना by play-along खिलौने , the  new toys offered features such as illuminated bellies upon touch , aerobic bears , and glow-in-the-dark bears .
As part of this comeback , the Bears have appeared in two  computer-animated फिल्मों : परवाह bears : यात्रा to joke-a-lot ( 2004  ) and The Care Bears ' Big Wish Movie ( 2005 ) .
In 2007 , the franchise celebrated its 25th anniversary ; another relaunch took place , as well as the release of  परवाह bears : oopsy करता  It ! .
In  mid-2011 , ag घोषित a पुनरुद्धार  TV animated series titled `` Care Bears : Welcome to Care-a-Lot `` .
The premiere of the series utilizes ``  30  years of caring '' .
It premiered on The Hub  on जून 2  , 2012 .
As of 2013  , परवाह  Bears merchandise is still being marketed .
During 2008 and  2009 , कनाडा 's कुकी जार समूह और फ़्रांस 's moonscoop  Group attempted to acquire the franchise from AGC , with no apparent success .
Interstate 70 (  i-70 ) is an अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग in the संयुक्त राज्य कि रनों इससे  Interstate 15 near Cove Fort , Utah , to a Park and Ride near Baltimore , Maryland .
It was the first  अंतरराज्यीय  Highway project in the United States .
I-70 approximately traces the path of  u.S.  Route 40 ( and also the old National Road ) east of the Rocky Mountains .
West of the Rockies , the route of I-70 was  निकला इससे अनेक  sources .
I-70 is the fifth longest  अंतरराज्यीय राजमार्ग , बाद i-90  , I-80 , I-40 , and I-10 .
The  निर्माण of i-70 in कोलोराडो और यूटा is माना  an engineering marvel as the route passes through the Eisenhower Tunnel , Glenwood Canyon , and the San Rafael Swell .
The Eisenhower Tunnel is the  उच्चतम  point along the Interstate Highway system with an elevation of .
The sections of the interstate in Missouri and Kansas have  रखी अर्जी to be the  first interstate in the United States .
Though disputed , the Federal Highway  प्रशासन रै claimed the खण्ड of i-70 through glenwood  Canyon , completed in 1992 , was the last piece of the Interstate Highway system , as originally planned , to open to traffic .
Photo of  1999 कुल  eclipse
As seen from the Earth , a solar  ग्रहण occurs जब the चंद्रमा गुजरता between  the Sun and Earth , and the Moon fully or partially blocks ( `` occults `` ) the Sun .
This can happen only at new moon , when the Sun and the Moon are in conjunction as seen from Earth in an alignment  referred  to as syzygy .
In a total eclipse , the disk of the  सूर्य is fully obscured  by the Moon .
In partial and  annular  eclipses only part of the Sun is obscured .
If the Moon were in a perfectly circular orbit , a little closer  to  the Earth , and in the same orbital plane , there would be total solar eclipses every single month .
However , the Moon 's orbit is inclined ( tilted ) at more than 5 degrees to Earth 's orbit around the Sun ( see ecliptic ) so its shadow at new moon  प्रायः  misses Earth .
Earth 's orbit is called the ecliptic plane as the  चंद्रमा 's कक्षा जरूर क्रॉस इस प्लेन in अनुक्रम लिये an ग्रहण ( दोनो  solar as well as lunar ) to occur .
In addition , the Moon 's actual orbit is elliptical , often taking it far enough away  इससे धरती कि इसके apparent आकार is नहीं विशाल पर्याप्त to ब्लाक  the Sun totally .
The orbital planes cross each year  at a लकीर of नोड resulting in at तनिक दो , और up to पाँच  , solar eclipses occurring each year ; no more than two of which can be total eclipses .
However , total  सौर eclipses हैं विरल at कोई particular  location because totality exists only along a narrow path on Earth 's surface traced by the Moon 's shadow or umbra .
an ग्रहण  is a natural phenomenon .
Nevertheless , in some ancient and modern cultures , solar  eclipses have महरूम  attributed to supernatural causes or regarded as bad omens .
A total solar eclipse can be frightening to people who are unaware of its astronomical explanation , as the  सूर्य seems to गायब दौरान the दिन और the आसमान darkens  in a matter of minutes .
Because it is dangerous to look directly at the Sun , observers should use special eye protection or indirect viewing techniques  जब देखने a आंशिक ग्रहण ,  or the partial phases of a total eclipse .
It is safe to view the total phase of a total solar eclipse  साथ the unaided नजर और  without protection , however .
People referred to as eclipse chasers or umbraphiles will  सफर to रिमोट स्थितियाँ  to observe or witness predicted central solar eclipses .
A political party ( from , Genitive partis , `` part '' , `` portion '' ) is a political organization that typically seeks to influence , or entirely control ,  सरकारी नीति , प्रायः by  nominating candidates with aligned political views and trying to seat them in political office .
Parties  participate in चुनावी अभियान और  educational outreach or protest actions .
Parties often espouse an ideology or vision , expressed in a party program , bolstered by a written platform with specific goals ,  forming a गठबन्धन among disparate रूचि  .
The mango is a fleshy stone fruit belonging to the genus  mangifera  , consisting of numerous tropical fruiting trees in the flowering plant family Anacardiaceae .
The mango is native to South Asia , from where it has been  वितरित विश्वव्यापी to become एक of the सबसे cultivated  fruits in the tropics .
While other Mangifera species ( e.g . horse mango , M. foetida ) are also grown  on a अधिक स्थानीयकृत आधार , mangifera इंडिका – the 'common आम ' or 'इण्डियाn  mango ' – is the only mango tree commonly cultivated in many tropical and subtropical regions .
It is the national fruit of India ,  पाकिस्तानी और फिलीपीन  .
In several cultures , its fruit and leaves  हैं ritually प्रयुक्त as पुष्पक सजावट  at weddings , public celebrations and religious ceremonies .
Gill Arnette Byrd , < ref name > http :  //www.pro-football-reference.com/players/b/byrdgi00.htm  ( born February 20 , 1961 in San Francisco , California ) is a former professional American football player .
He was a two time Pro Bowl cornerback in 1991 and 1992 for the  सैन डिएगो chargers बाद graduating इससे  San Jose State University .
Byrd was  inducted into the  Chargers Hall of Fame in 1998 .
He was an All-City running back and defensive back at Lowell High School ( San Francisco ) ,  helping to सीसे the कार्डिनल्स  to the city championship in his senior season of 1978 .
World  मैप प्रर्दशित  the Tropic of Cancer
The Tropic of Cancer , also referred to as the Northern tropic , is the circle of latitude on the Earth that marks the most northerly position at  जिससे the सूर्य may appear सीधे ओवरहेड  at its zenith .
This event occurs once per year , at the time of the June solstice  , जब the उत्तरी गोलार्ध is tilted toward the सूर्य  to its maximum extent .
It currently ( Year 2013 ) lies at 23° 26′ 15.143′′  उत्तर of the  Equator .
Its Southern Hemisphere counterpart , marking the most southerly position at  जिससे the सूर्य may  appear directly overhead , is the Tropic of Capricorn .
These tropics are two of the five major degree measures or major circles of  अक्षांश कि चिह्नित मानचित्र of  the Earth , besides the Arctic and Antarctic Circles and the Equator .
The positions of these circles of latitude ( other than  the equator ) हैं लिखवाई by the झुकाव of the धरती 's अक्ष of रोटेशन  relative to the plane of its orbit .
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on  dvd discs , और is फिलहाल  the dominant consumer video format in Asia , North America , Europe , and Australia .
Discs using the DVD-Video  specification आवश्यकता a dvd ड्राइव और an h.262/mpeg-2  Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive with a software DVD player ) .
Commercial DVD movies are encoded using a combination of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats (  प्रायः multi-channel  formats as described below ) .
Typically , the data rate for DVD movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s ,  और the बिट रेट is प्रायः  adaptive .
It was first  उपलब्धियाँ लिये  retail around 1997 .
The  dvd-video specification थी निर्मित  by DVD Forum and can be obtained from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000 .
The specification is not publicly available , because  प्रत्येक सदस्य  must sign a non-disclosure agreement .
निश्चित  information in the DVD Book is proprietary and confidential .
in कम्प्यूटिंग और specifically अंतरजाल , a जोंक is एक  who benefits , usually deliberately , from others ' information or effort but does not offer anything in return , or makes only token offerings in an attempt to avoid being called a leech .
In economics , this type of behavior is called `` free riding '' and is  संबद्ध साथ the फ़्री  rider problem .
Depending on context , leeching does not necessarily refer to illegal use of computer resources , but often instead to greedy use according to etiquette : to wit ,  using too much of कया is freely दिए बगैर contributing a उचित  amount back to the community that provides it .
the नाम गर्भाशयी इससे  the leech , an animal that sucks blood and then tries to leave unnoticed .
Other terms are used , such as `` freeloader '' ,  लकिन जोंक is the सबसे  common .
The full eagle logo  , प्रयुक्त in विभिन्न  versions from 1970 to 1993 .
The United States Postal  सेवा ( usps ) , भी ज्ञात as  the Post Office and U.S. Mail , is an independent agency of the United States federal government responsible for providing postal service in the United States .
It is one of the few government agencies  explicitly प्राधिकृत by  the United States Constitution .
The USPS traces its roots to 1775 during the  दूसरी महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस  , where Benjamin Franklin was appointed the first postmaster general .
The  cabinet-level पोस्ट दफ्तर विभाग थी निर्मित  in 1792 from Franklin 's operation and transformed into its current form in 1971 under the Postal Reorganization Act .
The USPS employs over  574,000 मजदूर और operates  over 260,000 vehicles .
The USPS is the operator of the largest vehicle  बेड़े  in the world .
The USPS is legally  obligated to  serve all Americans , regardless of geography , at uniform price and quality .
The USPS has exclusive access to letter boxes marked `` U.S. Mail '' and personal letterboxes in the United States , but still competes against private package delivery  सेवाएं  , such as UPS and FedEx .
the usps रै नहीं सीधे प्राप्त taxpayer-dollars  since the early 1980s with the minor exception of subsidies for costs associated with the disabled and overseas voters .
Since the 2006 all-time peak mail volume , after which Congress passed the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act `` , ( which mandated $ 5.5 billion per year to be paid into  an खाता to pre-fund retiree health-care , 75 सालो into the भविष्य , a आवश्यकता अद्वितीय among संगठन और व्यवसायों in the u.S.  ) , revenue dropped sharply due to recession-influenced declining mail volume , prompting the postal service to look to other sources of revenue while cutting costs to reduce its budget deficit .
Washington , D.C. has been the capital of  the संयुक्त राज्य चूंकि  1800 .
Eight other cities  have परोसा as the बैठक प्लेस लिये  Congress and are therefore considered to have once been the capital of the United States .
In addition , each of the 50 U.S. states and the five principal territories  of the संयुक्त राज्य maintains इसके  own capital .
राजकुमारी काटें  diamond set in a ring
The Princess  काटें is the दूसरी सबसे  popular cut shape for diamonds , next to a round brilliant .
The face-up shape of the princess cut is square or rectangular and the profile or side-on shape is similar to that of an  उलट पिरामिड साथ चार beveled  sides .
The princess cut is a  अपेक्षाकृत नई डायमंड काटें , having  been created in the 1960s .
It has gained in popularity in recent years as a more distinctive alternative to the more popular round brilliant cut , in which the top of diamond , called the crown , is  काटें साथ a गोलाकार face-up आकार  and the bottom , called the pavilion , is shaped similar to a cone .
A princess cut with the same width as the diameter of a round brilliant will weigh more as it has  चार  corners which would otherwise have been cut off and rounded to form a round brilliant .
the राजकुमारी काटें  is sometimes referred to as a square modified brilliant .
However , while displaying the same high degree of brilliance , its faceting style is unique and  completely अलग इससे कि  of a round brilliant .
The Princess cut had its origins in the early `` French '' cut , having a step-modified `` Double-French '' or `` Cross '' cut crown and a series of unique , chevron-shaped facets in the pavilion which combine to give a distinct  cross-shaped प्रतिबिंब जब the स्टोन is viewed  directly through the table .
Effectively , the Princess cut combines the high degree of light  वापसी of a गोलाकार शानदार काटें साथ a distinctive  square or rectangular shape .
The square princess cut diamond is usually slightly  सस्ता than गोलाकार शानदार काटें ईंट of the वही कैरेट वज़न क्युकी  it retains about 80 % of the rough diamond , as opposed to the round brilliant which retains only about 50 % of the rough .
The ability to retain more crystal weight makes  इस  shape popular amongst diamond cutters .
Accredited Gem Appraisers ( AGA ) and American Gem Society  प्रयोगशाला ( agsl ) और यूरोपीय gem laboratories-usa  ( EGL-USA ) are currently the only labs that grade the Princess cut for cut .
There is no universal definition of what measurements make an ideal princess cut diamond and many diamond manufacturers  मार्केट आदर्श ईंट साथ differing facet पैटर्न  and angles as `` ideal cut '' .
In contrast to the AGSL , AGA , and EGL-USA the Gemological Institute of America ( GIA ) has stated that there is not enough industry consensus or empirical data to specify cut grading standards for Princess cut  ईंट और to do so is at the रिस्क of उपभोक्ता जो may be धोखे by ईंट accompanied by निर्गुण आदर्श or बेहतरीन  cut grades .
The name ``  राजकुमारी काटें '' थी originally प्रयुक्त in कनेक्शन  with another diamond cut , otherwise known as the `` Profile '' cut , designed by Arpad Nagy , a London cutter , in 1961 .
The same name was later used and  बना लोकप्रिय by ygal पर्लमैन , betzalel  Ambar , and Israel Itzkowitz in Israel in 1979 .
A  समान काटें साथ तभी 49 facets , as opposed  to the original 58 facets of the princess cut , was later branded the `` Quadrillion '' and initially distributed by Ambar Diamonds in Los Angeles .
Three years of optical research yielded a square stone with faceting similar to that of a round  शानदार काटें डायमंड .
A  तुलना
The  क्रमांक of chevrons can affect  the overall outlook of a princess cut diamond .
This can usually be determined by the wire diagram  कि is plotted in डायमंड ग्रेडिंग  reports .
By adding more chevrons on the pavilion side of the diamond ,  the व्यक्तिगत facets of the  diamond will now be broken down into smaller facets .
As a result , it  can दे a राजकुमारी काटें डायमंड  a `` crushed ice '' look .
Vice versa , when a princess cut diamond has lesser chevrons , it  tends to दे the डायमंड a चंकी  outlook due to broader facets .
The domestic dog ( Canis lupus familiaris ) is  a subspecies of the धूसर भेड़िया  ( Canis lupus ) , a member of the Canidae family of the mammalian order Carnivora .
the पद `` घरेलू  dog '' is generally used for both domesticated and feral varieties .
The dog has been the first animal to be  domesticated और  has been the most widely kept working , hunting , and pet animal in human history .
The  शब्द `` श्वान '' may भी  mean the male of a canine species , as opposed to the word `` bitch '' for the female of the species .
MtDNA evidence shows an evolutionary split between the modern dog 's lineage and the modern wolf 's lineage around 100,000 years ago but , , the oldest fossil specimens genetically  linked to the आधुनिक श्वान 's lineage तिथि to लगभग 33,000-36,000  years ago .
Dogs '  मान to जल्दी इंसान hunter-gatherers  led to them quickly becoming ubiquitous across world cultures .
Dogs perform many roles for people , such as hunting , herding , pulling loads , protection , assisting police and military , companionship , and , more recently , aiding   handicapped individuals .
This impact on human society has given them the nickname `` Man 's  बेहतरीन dost '' in the पश्चिमी  world .
In some cultures , dogs are  भी a सोर्स  of meat .
In 2001 ,  वहीँ यहूद अनुमानित  to be 400 million dogs in the world .
Most  breeds of कुत्तो हैं at सबसे a few सौ सालो बूढ़ा ,  having been artificially selected for particular morphologies and behaviors by people for specific functional roles .
Through this selective breeding , the dog has developed into hundreds of  varied breeds ,  and shows more behavioral and morphological variation than any other land mammal .
For example , height measured to the withers ranges from in the  चिहुआहुआ to परिचय in the आयरिश wolfhound ; रंग varies इससे श्वेत through grays ( प्रायः पुकारा  `` blue '' ) to black , and browns from light ( tan ) to dark ( `` red '' or `` chocolate '' ) in a wide variation of patterns ; coats can be short or long , coarse-haired to wool-like , straight , curly , or smooth .
It  is आम लिये  most breeds to shed this coat .
Diagram of a transmission  इलेक्ट्रॉन  microscope
A 1973 Siemens electron microscope , Musée  देस कला et métiers  , Paris
an इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी ( em ) is a प्रकार of  microscope that uses an electron beam to illuminate a specimen and produce a magnified image .
An EM has greater resolving power than a light microscope and can reveal the  ढांचा  of smaller objects because electrons have wavelengths about 100,000 times shorter than visible light photons .
They can  achieve बेहतर than 50 pm रेज़ोल्यूशन और magnifications of up to  about 10,000,000x whereas ordinary , non-confocal light microscopes are limited by diffraction to about 200 nm resolution and useful magnifications below 2000x .
The  इलेक्ट्रॉन सूक्ष्मदर्शी उपयोग  electrostatic and electromagnetic lenses to control the electron beam and focus it to form an image .
These electron optical lenses are analogous to the glass lenses of a light optical  सूक्ष्मदर्शी  .
Electron  microscopes हैं प्रयुक्त to investigate the ultrastructure of a चौड़ी दायरा of biological और  inorganic specimens including microorganisms , cells , large molecules , biopsy samples , metals , and crystals .
Industrially , the electron microscope is  प्रायः प्रयुक्त लिये विशेषता  control and failure analysis .
Modern electron  microscopes उपज इलेक्ट्रॉन micrographs  , using specialized digital cameras or frame grabbers to capture the image .
Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen is a chain of fried chicken fast  खाना रेस्तरां संस्थापित in 1972 in नई  Orleans , Louisiana .
Often referred to as Popeyes and sometimes as Popeyes Chicken & Biscuits or Popeyes Chicken & Seafood , It was acquired by Sandy Springs , Georgia -based AFC Enterprises , originally  अमेरिका  's Favorite Chicken Company , in 1993 .
According to a company press release dated June 29 , 2007 , Popeyes is the second-largest `` quick-service chicken restaurant group , measured by number of units '' , with more than 1,800  रेस्तरां in अधिक than 40 राज्य और the ज़िला of कोलंबिया , और over 22 देशों विश्वव्यापी सहित तुर्कों , उत्तरी साइप्रस  , Bahrain , China , Hong Kong , Iraq , Indonesia , Jordan , Kuwait , United Arab Emirates , Japan , Malaysia , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , Singapore , Canada , Jamaica , Guyana , Suriname , Mexico , Trinidad , Puerto Rico , Honduras , Vietnam , Panama , Peru , and Costa Rica .
परिचय तीस  locations are company-owned , the rest franchised .
The leg press is a weight  प्रशिक्षण कसरत in जिससे the व्यक्तिगत pushes a  weight or resistance away from them using their legs .
The term leg press also refers to the  apparatus प्रयुक्त to perform  this exercise .
The leg press can be used to evaluate an  खिलाड़ी 's overall निम्नतर  body strength ( from knee joint to hip ) .
Using the diagonal  sled-type लेग  press machine .
वहीँ हैं दो  main types of leg press:
The diagonal or vertical  'sled ' प्रकार  leg press .
वज़न डिस्क (  plates ) are attached directly to the sled , which is mounted on rails .
The user sits below the sled  और pushes it upward  with their feet .
ये मशीने सामान्यतः शामिल  adjustable safety brackets that prevent the user from being trapped under the weight .
The 'cable ' type leg press , or 'seated leg press ' , commonly found on  multigyms  .
The user  sits कतरा  and pushes forward with their feet onto a plate that is attached to the weight stack by means of a long steel cable .
Wendy Williams Hunter ( born Wendy Joan Williams ; July 18 , 1964  ) is an अमरीकी  media personality , actress and author .
She hosts a syndicated television talk show , The  वेन्डी विलियम्स  Show .
Prior to television , Williams was a `` shock jockette `` on  अनेक रेडियो  shows .
Williams has  gained सुर्खी लिये उसके  on-air spats with celebrities .
She was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series called The Wendy  विलियम्स अनुभव जिससे ब्रॉडकास्ट  events surrounding her radio show .
She  रै लिखा an आत्मकथा  and several other books , and has created a product line called Adorn by Wendy Williams .
Patrick Henry `` Treason '' speech before the House of Burgesses in an  1851 पेंटिंग by पीटर F. rothermel
`` Give me liberty ,  or दे me मौत ! '' is a quotation attributed to  Patrick Henry from a speech he made to the Virginia Convention .
On that day , at St. John 's Church in Richmond , Virginia , and is credited with having swung the balance in convincing the  वर्जिनिया हाउस of burgesses to pass a रेज़ोल्यूशन delivering the वर्जिनिया सैनिकों to the  Revolutionary War .
Among  the delegates to the सम्मेलन यहूद भविष्य  US Presidents Thomas Jefferson and George Washington .
Newfoundland  और labrador ( , locally  ) is the easternmost province of Canada .
Situated in the country 's  अटलांटिक प्रदेश , it incorporates  the island of Newfoundland and mainland Labrador to the northwest , with a combined area of .
in 2011 , the  province 's population was 514,536 .
Approximately 92 percent of the province 's population lives on the Island of Newfoundland ( including its associated smaller islands ) , of which more than half  सजीव on the  Avalon Peninsula .
The province is Canada 's most linguistically homogenous , with 97.6 % of residents reporting English ( Newfoundland English ) as their mother tongue in the  2006 जनसांख्यिकी ; .
Historically , Newfoundland was also home to unique varieties of French , and Irish  , as खूब as the now-extinct  Beothuk language .
In  labrador , लोकल  dialects of Innu-aimun and Inuktitut are also spoken .
Newfoundland and Labrador 's capital and largest city , St. John 's , is Canada  's 20th-largest जनसांख्यिकी महानगर  Area , and is home to almost 40 percent of the province 's population .
St. John 's is the seat of government ,  घर to the हाउस of सभा of न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड  and Labrador and the highest court in the jurisdiction , the Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal .
A former colony and dominion of the United Kingdom ,  न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador became the दसवाँ प्रांत to डालें the कनाडाई  Confederation on March 31 , 1949 , as Newfoundland .
On December 6 , 2001 , an amendment was made to the Constitution of Canada to change the province 's  आधिकारिक नाम to न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और labrador  .
In day-to-day conversation , however , Canadians generally  स्टिल refer to the प्रांत itself as न्यूफ़ाउंडलैंड और to the प्रदेश on the  Canadian mainland as Labrador .
थियोडोर  `` T.R . ''
रूज़वेल्ट , jr.  ( ; October 27 , 1858—January 6 , 1919 ) was the 26th President of the United States ( 1901–1909 ) .
He is noted for his exuberant personality , range of interests and achievements , and  उसके नेतृत्व of the प्रगतिशील गति , as खूब  as his `` cowboy `` persona and robust masculinity .
He was a leader of the Republican Party and founder of the first incarnation of the  short-lived प्रगतिशील ( `` सांड मूस '' ) पार्टी  of 1912 .
Before becoming  अध्यक्ष , he आयोजित कार्यालयों  at the city , state , and federal levels .
Roosevelt 's achievements as a naturalist , explorer , hunter , author , and soldier are as much a part  of उसके कीर्ति as कोई दफ्तर he आयोजित  as a politician .
Roosevelt was 42 years old when sworn in as President of the United States in 1901 , making him the youngest president ever ; he beat out the  youngest निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष , जॉन F. कैनेडी , by तभी एक  year .
रूज़वेल्ट थी भी the  first of only three sitting presidents to have won the Nobel Peace Prize .
The Teddy bear is named after him , despite his  अवमानना लिये होने  called `` Teddy '' .
Born into a wealthy family in New York City , Roosevelt was  a sickly चाइल्ड जो suffered इससे दमा और ठहरे  at home studying natural history .
To  overcome उसके शारीरिक  weakness , he embraced a strenuous life .
Home-schooled , he became an  eager छात्र of  nature .
He attended Harvard University , where he studied biology , boxed and developed  an ब्याज in नवल अफेयर्स  .
In 1881 , one year out of Harvard , he was  निर्वाचित to the नई यॉर्क राज्य सभा , जहाँ he became a नेता  of the reform faction of his Republican Party ( the `` GOP '' ) .
His The Naval War of 1812 ( 1882 ) established his professional reputation as a serious historian ; he wrote numerous books on  शिकार , the बाहरी , और वर्तमान राजनैतिक मुद्दे  , as well as frontier history .
In  1884 , उसके पहला  wife and his mother died on the same day .
He temporarily left politics and went to the  frontier , बनने a rancher in  the `` Badlands '' in the Dakotas .
Returning  to नई यॉर्क नगर  , he ran for mayor in 1886 , finishing third with 60,000 votes .
He later gained fame by taking vigorous charge  of the नगर पुलिस  .
At the national level , he was a leader in  सिविल सेवा  reform .
The Spanish–American War broke out in 1898 while  रूज़वेल्ट थी , effectively  , running the Department of the Navy .
He promptly resigned and  formed the अशिष्ट राइडर्स  – a volunteer cavalry regiment that fought in Cuba .
The war hero was elected governor in 1898 and in 1900  थी मनोनीत लिये वाइस अध्यक्ष  .
He successfully energized the GOP base as a highly visible campaigner to reelect President William McKinley on a platform of high tariffs , the gold standard ,  साम्राज्यवाद , समृद्धि at घर और विजय विदेश  .
In 1901 , President  विलियम mckinley थी assassinated  and Roosevelt became President .
He attempted to move the Republican Party ( GOP ) toward  प्रगतिवाद , सहित विश्वास busting और increased  regulation of businesses .
Roosevelt became the first person elected to a term in his own right in 1904 after having ascended to the Presidency ( from the Vice-Presidency ) upon the death of his  पूर्ववर्ती , जीतना the largest प्रतिशत of the लोकप्रिय vote चूंकि  the uncontested election of 1820 .
रूज़वेल्ट coined the phrase  `` Square Deal `` to describe his domestic agenda , emphasizing that the average citizen would get a fair share under his policies .
As an outdoorsman and naturalist  , he प्रचारित the  conservation movement .
On the world stage , Roosevelt 's policies were characterized by his slogan , `` Speak  softly और carry  a big stick `` .
A cousin is a relative with whom a person shares one or more common ancestor ( s ) ( other than a parent , child/descendant , sibling ,  child/descendant of a सहोदर , or सहोदर of a parent/ancestor )  .
However in common parlance , `` cousin '' normally  specifically अर्थात् ``  first cousin '' .
Systems of `` degrees '' and ``  removals '' हैं प्रयुक्त in the english-speaking  world to describe the exact relationship between two cousins ( in the broad sense ) and the ancestor they have in common .
Various governmental entities have  स्थापित प्रणालियों लिये विधिक उपयोग कि can अधिक precisely बताएँ kinships साथ आम पूर्वजो मौजूदा कोई क्रमांक of पीढियां in the पास्ट , हालांकि आम  usage often eliminates the degrees and removals and refers to people with common ancestry as simply `` distant cousins '' or `` relatives '' .
Webster is an American situation comedy that aired on ABC from September 16 , 1983 until May 8 , 1987 , and  in first-run अनुप्रयोग इससे सितंबर  21 , 1987 until March 10 , 1989 .
The series was created  by stu चांदी  .
The show stars Emmanuel Lewis in the title role as a young boy who , after losing his parents , is  अपनाया by उसके एनएफएल -pro गॉडफादर , portrayed by एलेक्स  Karras , and his new socialite wife , played by Susan Clark .
The focus  थी largely on कैसा इस impulsively शादीशुदा युगल  had to adjust to their new lives and sudden parenthood , but it was the congenial Webster himself who drove much of the plot .
The series  थी उत्पादित by जॉर्जियाई खाड़ी  Ltd. , Emmanuel Lewis Entertainment Enterprises , Inc. ( 1986-1989 ) and Paramount Television .
Like NBC 's earlier hit Diff'rent Strokes , Webster featured a  यंग african-american लड़के अपनाया  by a white family .
Three types  of कोशिका  division
Cell division is the process by which a parent cell  divides into दो or अधिक बेटी  cells .
कोशिका प्रभाग प्रायः  occurs as part of a larger cell cycle .
In eukaryotes , there are two distinct type of cell division : a vegetative division , whereby each daughter cell is genetically identical to the parent cell ( mitosis ) , and a reductive cell division , whereby the  क्रमांक of गुणसूत्रों in the बेटी कोशिकाएं is  reduced by half , to produce haploid gametes ( meiosis ) .
Both of these cell division cycles are required in sexually reproducing organisms at some point in  उनके जीवन साईकिल , और दोनो हैं believed to be उपस्थित in the पिछला eukaryotic  common ancestor Prokaryotes also undergo a vegetative cell division known as binary fission , where their genetic material is segregated equally into two daughter cells .
All cell divisions , regardless of  सजीव , हैं preceded  by a single round of DNA replication .
For simple unicellular organisms such as the amoeba , one cell division is equivalent to reproduction – an  संपूर्ण नई सजीव is  created .
On a larger scale , mitotic cell  प्रभाग  can create progeny from multicellular organisms , such as plants that grow from cuttings .
Cell division also enables sexually  reproducing जीवों to develop इससे the one-celled zygote , जिससे  itself was produced by cell division from gametes .
And after  विकास , कोशिका प्रभाग allows  for continual construction and repair of the organism .
a इंसान होने 's देह  experiences about 10,000 trillion cell divisions in a lifetime .
Cell  प्रभाग रै महरूम modeled  by finite subdivision rules .
The primary concern  of कोशिका प्रभाग is  the maintenance of the original cell 's genome .
Before division can  occur , the genomic सूचना कि is भंडारित in  chromosomes must be replicated , and the duplicated genome must be separated cleanly between cells .
A great deal of  सेल्यूलर अवसंरचना is शामिल in keeping  genomic information consistent between `` generations '' .
Mountain ranges of  मैसाचुसेट्स  , United States .
Howard Jones ( born John Howard Jones , 23 February 1955 ,  southampton , हैम्पशायर , इंग्लैण्ड  ) is a British musician , singer and songwriter .
According to the Guinness Book of British Hit Singles & Albums , ``  जोन्स is an संपन्नता singer-songwriter  who was a regular chart visitor in the mid-1980s with his brand of synthpop .
Jones , who was equally popular in the U.S. , appeared at Live  सहायता ``  .
Allmusic journalist , Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds , `` Jones was one  of the धमक आंकड़े of mid-1980s synthpop  .
His music merged the technology intensive sound of New Wave with the cheery  आशावाद of hippies और लेट 1960s  pop .
Jones racked up  a स्ट्रिंग of हिट्स in the मिड और लेट 1980s  , before he retreated into being a cult figure in the 1990s '' .
The International Isle of Man TT ( Tourist  ट्रॉफी ) रेस is a मोटरसाइकिल रेसिंग इवेंट आयोजित  on the Isle of Man and was for many years the most prestigious motorcycle race in the world .
The event was part of the FIM Motorcycle Grand Prix  संसार चैंपियनशिप  during the period 1949–1976 before being transferred to the United Kingdom after safety concerns and run by the FIM as the British Grand Prix for the 1977 season .
The  आइल of man tt दौड़  became part of the TT Formula 1 Championship from 1977 to 1990 to preserve the event 's racing status .
From 1989 the racing has been developed by the Isle of Man Department of  पर्यटन as the आइल of man tt  Festival .
The race is run in a time-trial  स्वरूप on पब्लिक सड़कें बंद लिये रेसिंग by the प्रावधानों of an  Act of Tynwald ( the parliament of the Isle of Man ) .
The  पहला रेस थी आयोजित on  Tuesday 28 May 1907 and was called the International Auto-Cycle Tourist Trophy .
The event was organised by the Auto-Cycle Club over 10 laps of  the st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स of 15 मील  1,470 yards for road-legal touring motorcycles with exhaust silencers , saddles , pedals and mud-guards .
The winner of the single-cylinder class , and overall winner of the first event in 1907 , was Charlie Collier riding a Matchless motorcycle in a time of 4 hours , 8 minutes  और 8 सेकेंड at an औसत रेस गति  of 38.21 mph .
The  विजेता of the twin-cylinder  class was Rem Fowler riding a Peugeot engined Norton in a time of 4 hours 21 minutes and 52 seconds at an average race speed of 36.21 mph .
the ट्रॉफी  presented to Charlie Collier as the winner of the 1907 Isle of Man TT Race , was donated by the Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars .
It featured a stylised version of Olympic  परमेश्वर hermes by giovanni da बोलोग्ना as a चांदी figurine  astride a winged wheel .
The trophy was similar in design to the 18 carat gold Montague Trophy presented to John Napier ( Arrol-Johnston ) as the inaugural  विजेता of the आइल of man पर्यटक  Trophy car race in 1905 now known as the RAC Tourist Trophy .
The Marquis de Mouzilly St. Mars Trophy is now presented  annually to the विजेता of the आइल  of Man Senior TT Motor-Cycle Race .
The 2007 Isle of Man TT was the Centenary event which ran between 26 May and 8 June 2007 and featured a  खास re-enactment of the 1907 आइल of man tt रेस आयोजित on the गाँव ग्रीन अगला to  Tynwald Hill in St John 's on Monday 28 May 2007 .
The vintage parade of 100 classic motorcycles for the Centenary Re-enactment on the  असली st जॉन 's छोटी कोर्स थी flagged दूर by पूर्व संसार  Motor-Cycle Champion Geoff Duke .
The first of the participants to be flagged away was the recently restored twin-cylinder Peugeot-Norton ridden by Rem Fowler during  the पहला आइल of man tt रेस in 1907  .
Also participating in the 2007 Re-enactment was TT race competitor Guy Martin riding a 1938 Triumph Tiger 100 500 cc and other former TT  प्रतिस्पर्धी सहित एलन cathcart , सैमी मिलर , उपनाम jefferies  and Mick Grant also completed the Re-enactment lap .
upright=1.15
Unemployment ( or joblessness ) occurs  जब लोगों हैं  without work and actively seeking work .
The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed  individuals by सब individuals  currently in the labor force .
During periods of recession , an economy usually  अनुभवों a अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची बेरोजगारी  rate .
According to  अंतरराष्ट्रीय श्रमिक संगठन रपट  , more than 197 million people globally are out of work or 6 % of the world 's workforce were without a job in 2012 .
There remains considerable theoretical debate regarding the causes , consequences and  समाधान लिये बेरोजगारी  .
Classical economics , New classical economics , and the Austrian School of economics argue that market  mechanisms हैं विश्वसनीय अर्थात् of resolving  unemployment .
These theories argue against interventions imposed on the labor market from the outside , such as unionization , minimum wage laws , taxes , and other regulations that they claim discourage  the  hiring of workers .
Keynesian economics emphasizes the cyclical nature of  बेरोजगारी और अनुशंसा सरकारी interventions  in the economy that it claims will reduce unemployment during recessions .
This theory focuses on recurrent shocks that suddenly reduce aggregate demand for goods and services  और यूँ reduce माँग लिये  workers .
Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers ; these can include  वित्तीय stimuli , सरेआम वित्तपोषित जॉब  creation , and expansionist monetary policies .
In addition to these comprehensive theories of unemployment , there are  a few categorizations of बेरोजगारी कि हैं प्रयुक्त  to more precisely model the effects of unemployment within the economic system .
The main types of unemployment include structural unemployment which focuses on structural problems in the economy and  inefficiencies अंतर्निहित in श्रमिक बाज़ार , सहित a बेमेल between the सप्लाई और माँग of laborers साथ जरुरी कौशल  sets .
संरचनात्मक वितर्क emphasize कल्याणकारी और समाधान  related to disruptive technologies and globalization .
चर्चाएँ of frictional बेरोजगारी फ़ोकस on voluntary निर्णय  to work based on each individuals ' valuation of their own work and how that compares to current wage rates plus the time and effort required to find a job .
Causes and solutions  लिये frictional बेरोजगारी  often address job entry threshold and wage rates .
Behavioral economists highlight individual biases in decision making , and often involve problems and solutions concerning sticky wages  और दक्षता  wages .
Collectivism is any philosophic , political , religious , economic , or social outlook that  emphasizes the interdependence of प्रत्येक इंसान होने in a समाज  or civilization .
Collectivism is a basic cultural element that exists as the reverse of individualism in human  प्रकृति ( in the वही रास्ता  high context culture exists as the reverse of low context culture ) .
Collectivist orientations stress the importance of cohesion within social  समूह ( ऐसे as an `` in-group '' , in कया विशिष्ट  context it is defined ) and in some cases , the priority of group goals over individual goals .
Collectivists  प्रायः फ़ोकस on जातियाँ  , society , nation or country .
It has been used as an element in many different and diverse types of government and political , economic and educational philosophies throughout history  और सबसे इंसान समाजों in अभ्यास contain तत्व of दोनो व्यक्तिगत  and collectivism .
Some  उदाहरण of collectivist  cultures include India and Japan .
Collectivism can be divided into  आड़ा collectivism  and vertical collectivism .
Horizontal collectivism stresses collective decision-making among equal individuals , and  is यूँ प्रायः आधारित on  decentralization and egalitarianism .
Vertical collectivism is based on hierarchical structures of power and on moral  और सांस्कृतिक conformity , और is इसलिए आधारित  on centralization and hierarchy .
A cooperative enterprise would be an example of horizontal collectivism , whereas a military  पदानुक्रम होता be an उदाहरण  of vertical collectivism .
Acute disseminated  encephalomyelitis ( adem ) is an  immune mediated disease of the brain .
It usually occurs following a viral  संक्रमण लकिन may appear following टीकाकरण , बैक्टीरियल  or parasitic infection , or even appear spontaneously .
As it involves autoimmune demyelination , it is similar to multiple sclerosis , and is considered part of  the अनेक काठिन्य borderline रोगों .
The incidence rate is about 8  प्रति 1,000,000 लोगों  per year .
Although it occurs in all ages , most reported cases are in children and  adolescents , साथ the औसत आयु around  5 to 8 years old .
The mortality rate may be as high as 5 % , full recovery is seen in 50 to 75 %  of मामले , जबकि up to 70 to 90 % रिकवर साथ कुछ नाबालिग  residual disability .
The average time to  रिकवर is एक  to six months .
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the brain and spinal  cord , विशेषकर  in the white matter .
Usually these are  मिला in the subcortical और सेंट्रल श्वेत पदार्थ  and cortical gray-white junction of both cerebral hemispheres , cerebellum , brainstem , and spinal cord , but periventricular white matter and gray matter of the cortex , thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved .
When the patient suffers more than one demyelinating episode , it is  पुकारा तूल disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic  disseminated encephalomyelitis ( MDEM ) .
The stomach is a muscular , hollow , dilated part of the digestion system which functions as an important organ of the digestive tract in  कुछ पशु , सहित vertebrates , echinoderms  , insects ( mid-gut ) , and molluscs .
It is involved  in the दूसरी  phase of digestion , following mastication ( chewing ) .
The stomach is located between the  ग्रासनाल और the छोटी  intestine .
It secretes  protein-digesting एंजाइमों पुकारा  protease and strong acids to aid in food digestion , ( sent to it via esophageal peristalsis ) through smooth muscular contortions ( called segmentation ) before sending partially digested food ( chyme ) to the small intestines .
The  शब्द पेट is निकला इससे the लैटिन  stomachus which is derived from the Greek word stomachos ( στόμαχος ) , ultimately from stoma ( ) , `` mouth '' .
the शब्द gastro- और gastric ( अर्थ  related to the stomach ) are both derived from the Greek word gaster ( ) .
1940 Pontiac  खास श्रेणी  25 Woodie
A woodie is a car body style , especially  a स्टेशन वैगन , जहाँ the पश्च bodywork is constructed  of wood framework with infill panels of wood or painted metal .
After the demise of actual wood construction , manufacturers  प्रयुक्त अनुकरण woodgrain चादर vinyl—sometimes augmented साथ three-dimensional  , simulated framework—to recall wood construction .
In 2008 , wood construction was  जगाई abstractly on the घाट फ्लेक्स  with a series of side and rear horizontal grooves .
A pearl is a hard object produced within the soft tissue ( specifically the mantle ) of  a जीना shelled mollusc  .
Just like the shell of a clam , a pearl is made up of calcium  कार्बोनेट in मिनट  crystalline form , which has been deposited in concentric layers .
The ideal pearl is perfectly round and smooth , but many other shapes of pearls (  बरॉक मोती ) occur  .
The finest quality natural pearls have been highly valued as  रत्नों और वस्तुएँ of सौंदर्य लिये अनेक  centuries , and because of this , the word pearl has become a metaphor for something very rare , fine , admirable , and valuable .
The most valuable pearls occur spontaneously in the  जंगली , लकिन वे हैं  extremely rare .
These wild pearls  हैं referred to  as natural pearls .
Cultured or farmed pearls from pearl  oysters और freshwater mussels  make up the majority of those that are currently sold .
Imitation pearls  हैं भी widely बेची in inexpensive आभूषण ,  but the quality of their iridescence is usually very poor , and often , artificial pearls are easily distinguished from genuine pearls .
Pearls have been harvested and cultivated primarily for use in jewelry , but in the past they were also stitched onto  lavish कपडे  .
Pearls have also been crushed and  प्रयुक्त in कॉस्मेटिक्स , दवाइयाँ  , and in paint formulations .
whether जंगली or संस्कारी , gem  quality pearls are almost always nacreous and , as is the interior of the shell that produces them .
However ,  लगभग सब प्रजाति of shelled molluscs हैं सक्षम of producing मोती (  formally referred to as `` calcareous concretions '' by some sources ) of lesser shine or less spherical shape .
Although these may also be legitimately referred to as `` pearls '' by gemological labs and also under U.S. Federal Trade Commission rules , and are formed in the same way , most of them  have no मान , मगर as curiosities  .
Bing ( known previously as Live Search , Windows Live Search , and MSN  ढूंढें ) is a वेब ढूंढें  engine ( advertised as a `` decision engine `` ) from Microsoft .
Bing was unveiled by Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer on May 28 , 2009 at the All Things  डिजिटल सम्मेलन in सैन डिएगो लिये रिलीज  on June 1 .
Notable changes include the listing of search suggestions while queries are entered and a list of related searches ( called `` Explore pane '' ) based on semantic technology from Powerset  जिससे microsoft खरीदा  in 2008 .
on जुलाई 29 , 2009 , microsoft  and Yahoo ! announced a deal in which Bing would power Yahoo ! Search .
All Yahoo ! Search global  ग्राहक और साझेदार हैं अपेक्षित  to have made the transition by early 2012 .
In October 2011 , Bing announced it was  working on नई back-end ढूंढें अवसंरचना  , with the goal of delivering faster and slightly more relevant search results for users .
Known as `` Tiger '' , the new index-serving technology  रै महरूम incorporated  into Bing globally , since August 2011 .
In May 2012 , Bing announced another redesign of its search engine that includes `` Sidebar ''  , a सोशल विशेषता कि खोज उपयोक्ता  ' social networks for information relevant to the search query .
A diagram showing an I Formation on offense and a 4-3  गठन  on defense
In American football , each team has eleven players on the field  at एक समय .
The  विशिष्ट भूमिका कि  a player takes on the field is called their position .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are allowed unlimited subsititutions ,  कि is टीमों may बदलें कोई क्रमांक of खिलाड़ी  after any play .
This has resulted in the development of three `` platoons '' of players , the offense ( the team with the ball , who is trying to score ) , the defense ( the  टोली trying to prevent the अन्य टोली इससे स्कोरिंग , और to लो the बॉल इससे उन्हें ) , और the खास  teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons , various specific positions exist  depending on कया the खिलाड़ी 's  main job is .
The Irish people ( or na hÉireannaigh ;  ulster-scots : airish fowk ) हैं  an ethnic group who originate in Ireland , an island in northwestern Europe .
Ireland has been populated for around 9,000  सालो ( according to पुरातत्व अध्ययन , देखिए प्रागैतिहासिक  Ireland ) .
The Irish people 's earliest ancestors are recorded in legends – they  हैं claimed to be descended इससे समूह  such as the Nemedians , Fomorians , Fir Bolg , Tuatha Dé Danann and the Milesians .
Lebor Gabála Érenn , a book of Irish mythology tells that  milesians यहूद स्काइथियन वंशजों  .
The main groups that  interacted साथ  the Irish in the Middle Ages include the Picts , Scots , and the Vikings .
Due to this contact ,  icelanders हैं  noted for having some Irish descent .
The Anglo-Norman invasion of the High Middle Ages , the English plantations and the subsequent English rule of the country  introduced the normans  and Flemish into Ireland .
Welsh , Picts , Bretons , and small parties of Gauls and even  anglo-saxons हैं ज्ञात in आयरलैंड इससे much पहले  times .
वहीँ have महरूम अनेक notable  Irish people throughout history .
The 6th century Irish monk and  मिशनरी columbanus is regarded  as one of the `` fathers of Europe '' , followed by Kilian of Würzburg and Vergilius of Salzburg .
the वैज्ञानिक रॉबर्ट  Boyle is considered the `` father of chemistry `` .
Famous Irish explorers include Brendan the  नाविक , रॉबर्ट mcclure , अर्नेस्ट shackleton  and Tom Crean .
By some accounts  , the पहला यूरोपीय चाइल्ड born in उत्तर  America had Irish descent on both sides ; and an Irishman was the first European to set foot on American soil in Columbus ' expedition of 1492 .
There are  वंशजों of आयरिश लोगों  living in many western countries , particularly in English-speaking countries .
Historically , emigration has been caused by  राजनीती , अकाल और आर्थिक  issues .
An estimated 50 to 80 million people are descendants of Irish people , primarily in the United Kingdom , the United States , Australia , Canada and Iceland ; there are also smaller numbers in Argentina ,  चिली , मैक्सिको , जमैका , बारबाडोस  , South Africa , New Zealand , France , Germany and Brazil .
The largest  क्रमांक of वंशजों of आयरिश  people live in the United States .
The number of  लोगों जीना in ऑस्ट्रेलिया जो हैं  of Irish descent is higher , as a percentage of total population , than that of any other country .
Approximately forty percent of the  उपनिवेश जनसांख्यिकी of  Iceland came from Ireland or Scotland .
The very first inhabitants of Iceland  यहूद आयरिश  .
The Hubble Space Telescope ( HST ) is a space telescope that was carried into orbit by a Space  शटल in 1990 और remains  in operation .
A aperture telescope in low Earth orbit , Hubble 's four main instruments observe in the near  पराबैंगनी , दृश्य , और  near infrared .
The telescope is named after  the  astronomer Edwin Hubble .
Hubble 's orbit outside the distortion of Earth 's atmosphere allows it to take extremely sharp images  साथ लगभग no पृष्ठभूमि  light .
Hubble 's Deep Field have been some of the most detailed visible-light images ever ,  allowing a गहन दृश्य into स्पेस और समय .
Many  हबल observations have led to सफलताएँ in  astrophysics , such as accurately determining the rate of expansion of the universe .
Although not the first space telescope , Hubble is one of the largest and most versatile , and is well known as  दोनो a vital शोध  tool and a public relations boon for astronomy .
the hst थी निर्मित by the संयुक्त राज्य स्पेस  agency NASA , with contributions from the European Space Agency , and is operated by the Space Telescope Science Institute .
The HST is one of NASA 's Great Observatories , along  साथ the कॉम्पटन गामा रे वेधशाला , the  Chandra X-ray Observatory , and the Spitzer Space Telescope .
Space  telescopes यहूद प्रस्तावित as  early as 1923 .
Hubble was funded in the 1970s , with a proposed launch in 1983 , but the project  थी घिरा by तकनीकी देरी , बजट समस्याएं , और the  Challenger disaster .
When finally launched in 1990 , scientists found  कि the प्रमुख दर्पण  had been ground incorrectly , compromising the telescope 's capabilities .
The telescope was restored to  इसके intended  quality by a servicing mission in 1993 .
Hubble is the only  दूरदर्शी designed  to be serviced in space by astronauts .
Between 1993 and 2002 , four missions repaired , upgraded , and replaced  प्रणालियों on the दूरदर्शी ; a पांचवां मिशन थी रद्द  on safety grounds following the Columbia disaster .
however , बाद spirited पब्लिक  discussion , NASA administrator Mike Griffin approved one final servicing mission , completed in 2009 by Space Shuttle Atlantis .
The  दूरदर्शी is अभी  expected to function until at least 2013 .
Its scientific successor ,  the जेम्स webb स्पेस दूरदर्शी ( jwst ) ,  is to be launched in 2018 or possibly later .
Anti-inflammatory refers  to the प्रॉपर्टी of a पदार्थ or उपचार  that reduces inflammation .
Anti-inflammatory  दवाएँ मेक up परिचय हाफ of analgesics , remedying पीड़ा  by reducing inflammation as opposed to opioids , which affect the central nervous system .
The  tonight दिखाएँ is a us  late-night talk show that has aired on NBC since 1954 .
It is the longest currently running  regularly अनुसूचित entertainment  program in the US and the third longest-running show on NBC after Meet the Press and Today .
The Tonight Show was hosted by Steve Allen ( 1954–1957 ) , Jack  paar ( 1957–1962 ) , जॉनी कार्सन (  1962–1992 ) , Jay Leno ( 1992–2009 , 2010–present ) , and Conan O'Brien ( 2009–2010 ) .
Several  अतिथि होस्ट भी appeared  , particularly during the Paar and Carson eras .
The  longest-serving मेजबान to तिथि  was Johnny Carson , who hosted The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson for 30 seasons from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1992 .
The current host of the show is Jay Leno , who had previously  hosted the दिखाएँ इससे 1992 to  2009 and began his second tenure on March 1 , 2010 .
On April 3 , 2013 , NBC announced Jimmy Fallon would become the new host  of the tonight दिखाएँ  .
The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon will premiere February 24 , 2014 , the day  बाद the closing  ceremonies of the 2014 Winter Olympics .
ss एंड्रिया  Doria .
Pronounced was an ocean liner for the Italian Line ( Società di navigazione  इटालिया ) घर ported in जेनोआ , इटली , सबसे  famous for its sinking in 1956 , when 52 people died ( 51 from immediate impact ) .
Named after the 16th-century Genoese admiral Andrea Doria , the ship had a gross register tonnage  of 29,100 और a क्षमता of परिचय  1,200 passengers and 500 crew .
लिये a देश attempting to rebuild इसके  economy and reputation after World War II , Andrea Doria was an icon of Italian national pride .
Of all Italy 's ships at the time , Andrea Doria was  the largest , तीव्रतम  and supposedly safest .
Launched on 16 June 1951 , the ship undertook its maiden voyage  on 14 जनवरी  1953 .
On 25 July 1956  , जबकि the एंड्रिया डोरिया थी approaching the coast of nantucket  , Massachusetts , bound for New York City , the eastbound of the Swedish American Line collided with it in what became one of history 's most infamous maritime disasters .
Struck in the side , the top-heavy Andrea Doria immediately started  to सूची severely to स्टारबोर्ड  , which left half of its lifeboats unusable .
The consequent shortage of lifeboats might have resulted in significant loss of life ,  लकिन the दक्षता of the जलयान 's तकनीकी डिज़ाइन अनुमत  it to stay afloat for over 11 hours after the ramming .
The good behavior of the  क्रू , सुधार in संचार और the  rapid response of other ships averted a disaster similar in scale to that of the in 1912 .
1,660 passengers and crew were rescued and  बच , जबकि 46 लोगों  died as a consequence of the collision .
The evacuated  लक्ज़री लाइनर capsized और  sank the following morning .
This accident remains the worst maritime disaster to occur in United  राज्य  waters since the sinking of the in 1915 .
The incident and its aftermath were  heavily covered by  the news media .
While the rescue efforts were both successful and commendable , the cause of the collision with the Stockholm and  the घाटा of एंड्रिया डोरिया उत्पन्न much  interest in the media and many lawsuits .
Largely  क्युकी of an out-of-court उपनिवेश अनुबंध  between the two shipping companies during hearings immediately after the disaster , no determination of the cause ( s ) was ever formally published .
Although greater blame appeared initially to fall on the Italian liner , more recent discoveries have indicated  कि a misreading of रडार on the स्वीडिश जलयान may have initiated the टक्कर  course , leading to errors on both ships .
Andrea Doria was the last major transatlantic passenger vessel to sink before aircraft  became the  preferred method of travel .
डायलिसिस  tubing
Dialysis tubing is a  प्रकार of सेमi-  or partially permeable membrane tubing made from regenerated cellulose or cellophane .
It  can be प्रयुक्त लिये diffusion साथ  solutes or osmosis if used with water only .
Osmosis is when water passes through a semi-permeable layer to  पहुँचें संतुलन  .
Diffusion , on the other  हाथ , allows  the movement of molecules from high concentration to low concentration .
It will only allow  अणुओं to pass through a semi-permeable  membrane or layer if the molecule is small enough to fit through the membrane or a membrane 's pore .
This usually results with the effects of diffusion through a membrane only really affects small molecules  , और  almost never larger molecules .
डायलिसिस tubing is प्रयुक्त in  clinical circumstances to ensure a filtered flow of molecules , preventing the flow of larger solute molecules .
Small molecules can be `` washed '' out of a solution  जिससे is उत्तेजित through the tubing into a  solvent , usually water , which surrounds it and in which they can be flushed away .
In demonstrations of  semi-permeable झिल्लियों , a समाधान containing अनेक प्रकार  of molecules , usually glucose and starch , is placed into a semi-permeable dialysis bag , such as a cellulose membrane with pores , and the bag is sealed with a knot or elastic band .
The sealed dialysis bag is  लगाई in a संग्राहक  of a different solution , or water .
Molecules small enough to pass  through the tubing ( जल , लवण , monosaccharides  , and other small molecules ) tend to move into or out of the dialysis bag in the direction of decreasing concentration , therefore displaying diffusion .
Larger molecules ( such as proteins , or polysaccharides ) that have dimensions significantly greater than the pore diameter are retained  अंदर the डायलिसिस थैला .
The water and smaller solutes in a hypotonic solution ( a solution  कि रै a lesser solute विशेषज्ञता than the समाधान it is संदर्भित to ) होगा क्रॉस a semi-permeable झिल्ली , जैसे डायलिसिस tubing , into a hypertonic  solution ( a solution that has a higher solute concentration than the solution it is referenced to ) in an attempt to reach equilibrium , where the solute concentration of each solution is in equilibrium .
पारा प्रयोगशाला  thermometer
A  थर्मामीटर ( इससे the यूनानी , thermos , अर्थ `` hot '' और  μἐτρον , metron , `` measure '' ) is a device that measures temperature or temperature gradient using a variety of different principles .
A thermometer has two important elements : the temperature sensor ( e.g .  the बल्ब on a mercury-in-glass थर्मामीटर ) in जिससे कुछ शारीरिक बदलें occurs  with temperature , plus some means of converting this physical change into a numerical value ( e.g . the visible scale that is marked on a mercury-in-glass thermometer ) .
There are  अनेक प्रकार  and many uses for thermometers , as detailed below in sections of this article .
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937  अमरीकी एनिमेटेड musical काल्पनिक  film produced by Walt Disney and released by RKO Radio Pictures .
Based on the German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm , it is the first full-length cel animated feature film and  the earliest in the वॉल्ट डिज़्नी एनिमेटेड  Classics series .
The story was adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann Blank , Richard Creedon , Merrill De Maris , Otto Englander  , अर्ल hurd , लंड rickard , टेड सियर्स और webb स्मिथ  .
David Hand was the supervising director , while William Cottrell , Wilfred  जैक्सन , लैरी morey , perce pearce  , and Ben Sharpsteen directed the film 's individual sequences .
Snow White premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre on  दिसम्बर 21 , 1937 , followed by a देशभर रिलीज on फ़रवरी 4 , 1938 , और साथ अंतरराष्ट्रीय  earnings of $ 8 million during its initial release briefly assumed the record of highest grossing sound film at the time .
The popularity of the film has  led to it होने re-released  theatrically many times , until its home video release in the 1990s .
Adjusted for inflation , it is one of  the शीर्ष टेन performers at the  North American box office .
At the  11th अकादमी पुरस्कार , वॉल्ट डिज़्नी  was awarded an honorary Oscar , and the film was nominated for Best Musical Score .
It was added to the United States National Film Registry  in 1989 और is क्रमित in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान  's list of the 100 greatest American films , who also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008 .
Disney 's take on the fairy tale has had a big cultural impact , resulting in a popular theme park attraction , a  वीडियो खेल , और a ब्रॉडवे musical  .
Childbirth , labour , delivery , birth , partus , or parturition is the  culmination of a गर्भावस्था काल साथ the expulsion of एक or अधिक नवजात infants इससे  a woman 's uterus .
The process  of सामान्य प्रसव is categorized  in three stages of labour : the shortening and dilation of the cervix , descent and birth of the infant , and birth of the placenta .
In many cases and with increasing frequency , childbirth is achieved through induction of labor or caesarean section , which is the removal  of the neonate through a सर्जिकल incision  in the abdomen , rather than through vaginal birth .
Childbirth by C-Sections increased 50 % in the U.S. from 1996 to 2006  , और comprise nearly 32 % of births  in the U.S. and Canada .
With respect to  induced मजदूर , अधिक than 22 % of  women undergo induction of labour in the United States .
Medical professional policy makers find that induced births and elective cesarean can be harmful to the fetus and neonate as well  as नुकसानदेह or बगैर लाभ to the माँ , और have स्थापित  strict guidelines for non-medically indicated induced births and elective cesarean before 39 weeks .
Viva La Bam was an MTV & Viva show which  followed bam margera और उसके क्रू  as they undertook challenges , performed stunts and traveled the world .
The show ran for 5  सीज़न between 2003  and 2005 .
Flushed Away is a 2006 British/American computer animated action /  एडवेंचर कॉमेडी फिल्मी निर्देशित  by David Bowers and Sam Fell .
It was made in the partnership between Aardman Animations and DreamWorks  एनिमेशन , और is aardman 's पहला completely  computer-animated feature as opposed to the usual stop-motion .
The film stars the voice talents  of ह्यूज जैकमैन , केट  Winslet , Andy Serkis , Bill Nighy , Ian McKellen , Shane Richie and Jean Reno .
The story was by Sam Fell , Peter Lord , Dick Clement , and Ian La Frenais , and the screenplay was written by Dick Clement , Ian La Frenais , Christopher Lloyd  , जो  Keenan , and William Davies .
The film was released in US on 3 November 2006 , and in UK  on दिसम्बर 1 2006  , and was distributed by Paramount Pictures , except for Switzerland , Spain , and the Netherlands , which were handled by Universal Pictures .
The Atlanta Braves are a  पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली  based in Atlanta .
the braves  are a member of the Eastern Division of Major League Baseball 's National League .
The Braves have  निभाई in टर्नर फ़ील्ड  since 1997 .
The `` Braves '' name , which was first used in 1912 ,  originates इससे a पद लिये  a Native American warrior .
They are nicknamed `` the Bravos '' , and often  referred to as `` अमेरिका  's Team `` in reference to the team 's games being broadcast on the nationally available TBS from the 1970s until 2007 , gaining a wide fanbase .
From 1991 to 2005 the Braves were one of the most  successful  franchises in baseball , winning division titles an unprecedented 14 consecutive times in that period ( omitting the strike-shortened 1994 season in which there were no official division champions ) .
The Braves won the NL West 1991–93 and the NL East 1995–2005 , and  लौटे to the playoffs as the नेशनल  League Wild Card in 2010 .
the braves उन्नत to the  World Series five times in the 1990s , winning the title in 1995 .
Since their debut in the National League in 1876 , the franchise has won 16 divisional titles , 17 National League pennants , as well as three World Series championships—in 1914 as the Boston Braves  , in 1957 as the मिल्वौकी braves , और in 1995  in Atlanta .
The  braves हैं the तभी  MLB franchise to have won the World Series in three different home cities .
The club is one of the National League 's two remaining charter franchises ( the other being the Chicago Cubs ) and was founded in Boston , Massachusetts , in 1871 as the Boston Red Stockings ( not to be  उलझन साथ the अमरीकी लीग 's बोस्टन रेड sox  ) .
They are considered `` the oldest continuously  playing  team in major North American sports . ''
There is an argument as to who is actually  पुरानी क्युकी हालांकि the शावक हैं a पूरा ऋतु `` पुरानी '' ( formed as the  Chicago White Stockings in 1870 ) Chicago lost two seasons to the Great Chicago Fire , thus the Braves have played more consecutive seasons .
After various name changes ( such as the Boston Beaneaters ) ,  the टोली संचालित as the बोस्टन braves लिये सबसे of the  first half of the 20th century .
In 1953 , the team moved to Milwaukee , Wisconsin and became the Milwaukee  braves , followed  by the move to Atlanta in 1966 .
The team 's tenure in Atlanta is famous for Hank Aaron breaking  बेब रुथ 's करियर घर चलाएं रिकार्ड in 1974 , हालांकि the बहुमत  of Aaron 's home runs were hit while the team was in Milwaukee .
His record stood until 2007 , when San Francisco  बाएँ क्षेत्ररक्षक बैरी bonds  broke the record .
The leaves  of a  Beech tree
3D rendering of a μCT scan of a leaf piece ,  रेज़ोल्यूशन circa 40 μm/ voxel  .
A leaf is an organ  of a vascular संयंत्र , as पारिभाषित  in botanical terms , and in particular in plant morphology .
Foliage is a mass noun that refers to  पत्ते as a विशेषता of  plants .
Typically a leaf is a thin , flattened organ borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis , but many types of leaves are adapted in ways almost unrecognisable in those terms : some are not flat ( for example many succulent leaves and conifers ) , some are not above ground ( such as bulb scales ) ,  और कुछ हैं बगैर प्रमुख photosynthetic फलन ( consider लिये उदाहरण cataphylls  , spines , and cotyledons ) .
Conversely , many structures of non-vascular plants , or even of some lichens , which are not plants at all (  in the भाव of होने सदस्यों of the किंगडम plantae ) , do dekh और फलन much  like leaves .
Furthermore , several  structures मिला in vascular पौधे  look like leaves but are not actually leaves ; they differ from leaves in their structures and origins .
Examples  शामिल phyllodes  , cladodes , and phylloclades .
Title card   for the 1937 Our Gang comedy Rushin ' Ballet .
Our Gang ( also known as The Little Rascals or Hal Roach 's Rascals ) are a series of American  कॉमेडी छोटी films परिचय a समूह of ग़रीब पड़ोस children और उनके adventures  .
Created by comedy producer Hal Roach , the series is noted for showing children behaving in a relatively natural  रास्ता , as रोच और असली निदेशक रॉबर्ट F. mcgowan worked to फिल्मी the unaffected  , raw nuances apparent in regular children rather than have them imitate adult acting styles .
In addition , Our Gang notably put boys , girls , whites and blacks together  in a समूह as बराबरी , कुछ कि `` broke नई मैदान  , '' according to film historian Leonard Maltin .
Such a thing had never been done before in  सिनेमा लकिन रै चूंकि महरूम दोहराया  after the success of Our Gang .
the पहला उत्पादन at  the Roach studio in 1922 was a series of silent short subjects .
When Roach changed distributors from Pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ( MGM ) in  1927 , और परिवर्तित the श्रेणी to ध्वनि in 1929 , the श्रेणी  took off even further .
Production continued at the Roach studio until  1938 , जब  the series was sold to MGM , who then continued producing the comedies until 1944 .
The Our Gang series includes a total of 220 shorts and one feature film , General Spanky ,  featuring over forty-one चाइल्ड  actors .
As MGM retained the rights to the Our Gang trademark following their purchase of the  उत्पादन अधिकारों , the 80 roach-produced `` टॉकीज़ '' यहूद syndicated लिये  television under the title The Little Rascals beginning in 1955 .
Both Roach 's The Little Rascals package ( now owned by CBS Television Distribution ) and MGM  's हमारी गिरोह पैकेज ( अभी स्वामित्व by warner भाईs. entertainment ) have चूंकि remained in अनुप्रयोग , साथ आवधिक  new productions based on the shorts surfacing over the years , including a 1994 Little Rascals feature film released by Universal Pictures .
Zacharias Janssen ( also  zacharias जानसन or sacharias जानसन ) ( b.1580-88  , d.pre-1632 to 1638 ) was a Dutch spectacle-maker from Middelburg associated with the invention of the first optical telescope .
Janssen is sometimes also credited for inventing the first truly compound  सूक्ष्मदर्शी  .
However , the origin of the microscope , just like the origin  of the दूरदर्शी  , is a matter of debate .
Lake Tahoe ( ; Washo : dáʔaw ) is a large freshwater  झील in the सिएरा नेवाडा  of the United States .
At a surface elevation of , it is  स्तिथ साथ the किनारा  between California and Nevada , west of Carson City .
Lake Tahoe is the  largest अल्पाइन झील  in North America .
Its  गहराई is , बनाना it the संयुक्त राज्य 's second-deepest  ( the deepest is Crater Lake in Oregon , being deeper , at ) .
Additionally , Lake Tahoe is listed  as the 26th  largest lake by volume in the world at .
the झील थी formed परिचय  2 million years ago and is a part of the Lake Tahoe Basin with the modern lake being shaped during the ice ages .
It is known for the clarity of its water and  the परिदृश्य of surrounding  mountains on all sides .
The area surrounding the lake is also referred to as  झील tahoe , or बस  Tahoe .
Lake Tahoe is a major tourist  आकर्षण  in both Nevada and California .
it is घर to a क्रमांक  of ski resorts , summer outdoor recreation , and tourist attractions .
हिम और स्कीइंग हैं a  significant part of the area 's economy and reputation .
Mountain  और झील नजारा हैं आकर्षण  throughout the year .
The Nevada side also  शामिल विशाल  casinos .
Highways provide year-round access from  रेनो , कार्सन नगर  , and Sacramento .
Page 1 of the  twenty-seventh  Amendment 's certification in the National Archives
Page 2 of the  amendment 's प्रमाणन
Page 3 of  the amendment 's  certification
The Twenty-seventh Amendment (  amendment xxvii ) prohibits कोई विधि कि increases or decreases the सैलरी  of members of the Congress from taking effect until the start of the next set of terms of office for Representatives .
It  is the सबसे हाल amendment  to the United States Constitution .
It was  सुपुर्द to the राज्य  for ratification in 1789 and was adopted in 1992 .
“First they came ... ” is a famous statement and provocative poem attributed to pastor Martin Niemöller ( 1892–1984 ) about the sloth of  जर्मनी intellectuals following the nazis ' वृद्धि to शक्ति और the subsequent  purging of their chosen targets , group after group .
There is some disagreement over the exact wording of the quotation and when it was created ;  the सामग्री of the quotation may have महरूम प्रस्तुत  differently by Niemöller on different occasions .
This list of islands  by क्षेत्रफल शामिल सब आइलैंड्स in the संसार  greater than 2,500 km2 ( ) and several other islands over 500 km2 ( ) , sorted in descending order by area .
For comparison ,  महाद्वीपों  are also shown .
Four Thirds  लोगो
The Four Thirds system is a  मानक निर्मित by ओलम्पस और कोडक लिये डिजिटल  single-lens reflex camera ( DSLR ) design and development. < ref name='DPReview.com 2001-02-13 ' >
the प्रणाली provides a मानक कि , साथ  digital cameras and lenses available from multiple manufacturers , allows for the interchange of lenses and bodies from different manufacturers .
seems to  कवर the  standard .
Proponents  describe  it as an open standard , but companies may only use it under a non-disclosure agreement .
नापसंद पुरानी slr  systems , Four Thirds has been designed from the ground up to be entirely digital .
Many lenses are extensively computerized , to the point that  ओलम्पस offers फर्मवेयर  updates for many of them .
Lens design has been tailored to the requirements of digital sensors , most  notably through telecentric डिजाइन  .
The  आकार of the सेंसर is significantly  smaller than for most DSLRs and this implies that lenses , especially telephoto lenses , can be smaller .
For example , a Four Thirds lens with a 300 mm focal length would cover about the same angle of view as a 600 mm focal length lens for the 35 mm film  मानक , और is correspondingly  more compact .
Thus , the Four Thirds System has crop factor ( focal length multiplier ) of  परिचय 2 , और जबकि इस enables longer फोकल  length for greater magnification , it does n't aid the manufacture of wide angle lenses .
The image  सेंसर स्वरूप , generally इंटरमीडिएट between those of  larger SLRs and smaller compact cameras , generally gives levels of cost , performance and convenience intermediate between those two classes .
HVAC systems use ventilation air ducts installed  throughout a भवन  to supply conditioned air to a room through outlet vents , called diffusers ; and ducts to remove air through return-air grilles .
HVAC ( heating , ventilation ,  और एयर कंडीशनिंग  ) is the technology of indoor and automotive environmental comfort .
HVAC system design is a subdiscipline of mechanical  अभियान्त्रिकी , आधारित on the सिद्धान्त  of thermodynamics , fluid mechanics , and heat transfer .
Refrigeration is sometimes added to the field 's abbreviation as HVAC & R or HVACR , or ventilating is dropped as in HACR ( such as the  नामांकन of hacr-rated सर्किट ब्रेकर्स  ) .
HVAC is important in the design of medium to large industrial and office buildings such as skyscrapers and in marine environments  ऐसे as एक्वैरियम , जहाँ सुरक्षित और स्वस्थ भवन शर्तें हैं regulated साथ  respect to temperature and humidity , using fresh air from outdoors .
Ventilation on the downdraught  प्रणाली , by impulsion , or the 'plenum  ' principle , applied to schoolrooms ( 1899 )
Heating , ventilating , and air conditioning is based on inventions and discoveries  made by  Nikolay Lvov , Michael Faraday , Willis Carrier , Reuben Trane , James Joule , William Rankine , Sadi Carnot , and many others .
The invention of the components of HVAC systems went hand-in-hand with the industrial revolution , and new methods of modernization , higher efficiency , and system   control are constantly introduced by companies and inventors worldwide .
The three central functions of heating , ventilating , and air-conditioning are  interrelated , विशेषकर साथ the need to provide थर्मल सुकून और स्वीकार्य अंदर  air quality within reasonable installation , operation , and maintenance costs .
HVAC systems can provide  वेंटिलेशन , reduce एयर  infiltration , and maintain pressure relationships between spaces .
The means of air delivery and removal from spaces is known as room air  वितरण  .
The starting point in carrying out an estimate both for cooling and heating depends on the exterior climate and interior  निर्दिष्ट शर्तें .
However before taking up the heat load calculation , it is necessary to find fresh air requirements for each  क्षेत्रफल in विवरण , as pressurization is  an important consideration .
In modern buildings the design , installation , and control systems of these  कृत्यों  are integrated into one or more HVAC systems .
For very small buildings , contractors normally  क्षमता इंजीनियर  and select HVAC systems and equipment .
For larger buildings , building  सेवाएं designers और इंजीनियर्स , ऐसे as mechanical , architectural  , or building services engineers analyze , design , and specify the HVAC systems , and specialty mechanical contractors fabricate and commission them .
भवन permits और code-compliance  inspections of the installations are normally required for all sizes of buildings .
The HVAC industry is a worldwide enterprise , with roles including operation and maintenance , system  डिज़ाइन  and construction , equipment manufacturing and sales , and in education and research .
The HVAC industry was historically regulated by the manufacturers of HVAC equipment , but regulating and standards organizations such as HARDI , ASHRAE , SMACNA , ACCA , Uniform Mechanical Code , International Mechanical Code ,  और amca have महरूम स्थापित to support the  industry and encourage high standards and achievement .
Royal Navy Commander James Bond , CMG , RNVR ,  is a fictional अक्षर  created by British journalist and novelist Ian Fleming in 1953 .
He is the protagonist of the James Bond series of  novels , films , कॉमिक्स और वीडियो  games .
Fleming  लिखा बारह बंध  novels and two short story collections before his death , although the last two books— The Man with the Golden Gun and Octopussy and The Living Daylights —were published posthumously .
The Bond character is a  रहस्य सेवा एजेंट , कोड क्रमांक  007 , residing in London but active internationally .
Bond was a composite character who was based on a number of commandos whom Fleming knew during his service in the Naval Intelligence Division during World War II , to whom Fleming added  उसके अपना स्टाइल और a क्रमांक of उसके अपना tastes ; बंध 's नाम थी appropriated इससे अमरीकी  ornithologist James Bond .
Bond has a  क्रमांक of अक्षर traits जिससे चलाएं throughout the किताबे , सहित an enjoyment  of cars , a love of food and drink , and an average intake of sixty custom-made cigarettes a day .
Since Fleming 's death in 1964 , there have been other authorised writers of Bond material , including John Gardner , who wrote fourteen novels and two novelizations and Raymond Benson , who wrote six novels ,  तीन novelizations और तीन  short stories .
There have also been three authors who wrote one book each ,  किंग्सले एमिस  ( writing as Robert Markham ) , Sebastian Faulks and Jeffery Deaver .
Additionally a  श्रेणी of novels आधारित on बंध 's  youth— Young Bond —was written by Charlie Higson .
As spin-offs from the literary works , there was a television  अनुकूलन of the पहला अनोखा , कसीनो royale  , in which Bond was played as an American agent .
a कॉमिक स्ट्रिप  series also ran in the Daily Express newspaper .
वहीँ have भी महरूम twenty-five  Bond films ; seven actors have played Bond in these films .
`` Nature  लड़के ''  is a song by Eden Ahbez , published in 1947 .
The song tells a fantasy of a `` strange enchanted boy ... who wandered very far '' only to learn that `` the  महानतम बात ... थी बस  to love and be loved in return '' .
Nat King Cole 's  1948 रिकॉर्डिंग of the  song was a major hit and `` Nature Boy '' has since become a pop and jazz standard , with dozens of major artists interpreting the song .
Louisiana ( or ; , ; Louisiana Creole : Léta de la Lwizyàn ) is a state  स्तिथ in the दक्षिणी प्रदेश of the संयुक्त  States of America .
Louisiana is the 31st  सबसे  extensive and the 25th most populous of the 50 United States .
Its capital is Baton Rouge and largest  नगर is नई ऑरलियन्स  .
Louisiana is the only state in the U.S. with political subdivisions termed parishes , which are local government 's  समतुल्य to काउंटी  .
The largest parish by population is East Baton Rouge Parish , and  the largest by जमीन क्षेत्रफल  is Cameron Parish .
Much of the  राज्य 's lands यहूद formed इससे sediment  washed down the Mississippi River , leaving enormous deltas and vast areas of coastal marsh and swamp .
These  contain a समृद्ध  southern biota ; typical examples include birds such as ibis and egrets .
There are also many species of tree frogs , and  मछली  such as sturgeon and paddlefish .
In more  elevated क्षेत्रों , आग is a प्राकृतिक  process in the landscape , and has produced extensive areas of longleaf pine forest and wet savannas .
These support an  exceptional विशाल क्रमांक  of plant species , including many species of orchids and carnivorous plants .
Some Louisiana urban environments have a multicultural , multilingual heritage , being so strongly influenced by an admixture of 18th-century French , Spanish ,  देशी अमरीकी ( भारतीय ) और अफ़्रीकी संस्कृतियों कि वे हैं माना to be somewhat असाधारण  in the U.S .
Before the American  खरीदें of the territory  , the current Louisiana State had been both a Spanish and French colony .
In addition , the pattern of development included importing numerous African slaves in the  18th सदी , साथ अनेक इससे the  same region of West Africa , thus concentrating their culture .
In the post-Civil War environment ,  anglo-americans increased the दबाव  for Anglicization , and in 1915 , English was made the only official language of the state .
Women 's rights  हैं the अधिकारों और entitlements  claimed for women and girls of many societies worldwide .
In some places these rights are institutionalized or  समर्थित by विधि , लोकल कस्टम ,  and behaviour , whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed .
They differ from broader notions  of इंसान अधिकारों through दावा of an  inherent historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys .
Issues commonly associated with notions of women 's rights include , though are not limited to , the right : to bodily integrity and autonomy ; to vote ( suffrage ) ; to hold public office ; to work ; to fair  मजदूरी or बराबर अदा ; to अपना प्रॉपर्टी ; to शिक्षा ; to serve in the सैन्य or be conscripted ; to डालें into विधिक अनुबंध  ; and to have marital , parental and religious rights .
The laws of science or  वैज्ञानिक कानून हैं कथन  that describe , predict , and perhaps explain why , a range of phenomena behave as they appear to in nature .
The term `` law '' has diverse usage in many cases : approximate , accurate , broad or  सीमित theories , in सब प्राकृतिक वैज्ञानिक disciplines (  physics , chemistry , biology , geology , astronomy etc . ) .
An analogous  पद लिये a  scientific law is a principle .
वैज्ञानिक  laws:
summarize a विशाल संग्रहण  of facts determined by experiment into a single statement,
can usually be formulated mathematically as one or several statements or equation , or at least stated in a single sentence , so that it can be used to predict the outcome of an  प्रयोग , दिए the आरंभिक , boundary , और अन्य शारीरिक शर्तें of the प्रक्रियाओं जिससे लो place,
are strongly supported by empirical evidence - they are scientific knowledge that experiments have repeatedly  सत्यापित ( और never  falsified ) .
Their accuracy does not change when new theories are worked out ,  लकिन बल्कि the पैमाना of अनुप्रयोग , चूंकि the  equation ( if any ) representing the law does not change .
As with  अन्य वैज्ञानिक ज्ञान , वे  do not have absolute certainty like mathematical theorems or identities , and it is always possible for a law to be overturned by future observations .
are often quoted as a  आधारभूत controlling  influence rather than a description of observed facts .
I.e . `` the laws  of गति  require that ''
Laws differ from hypotheses and postulates , which are  प्रस्तावित दौरान the वैज्ञानिक प्रक्रम  before and during validation by experiment and observation .
ये हैं नहीं कानून चूंकि वे  have not been verified to the same degree and may not be sufficiently general , although they may lead to the formulation of laws .
A law  is a अधिक solidified  and formal statement , distilled from repeated experiment .
Although the concepts of a law or principle in nature is borderline to philosophy , and presents the depth to which mathematics can describe nature , scientific laws are  माना इससे a वैज्ञानिक परिप्रेक्ष्य और follow the वैज्ञानिक  method ; they `` serve their purpose '' rather than `` questioning reality '' ( philosophical ) or `` statements of logical absolution '' ( mathematical ) .
For example , whether a law `` refers  to वास्तविकता '' is a philosophical समस्या , बल्कि  than scientific .
Fundamentally , all scientific laws follow from physics , laws  जिससे occur in अन्य sciences  ultimately follow from physical laws .
Often , from  mathematically आधारभूत  viewpoints , universal constants emerge from scientific laws .
The launch of the  प्लेस्टेशन 3 into the जापानी मार्केट on 10 नवम्बर  2006 marked the second major seventh generation entertainment system to be released .
The system was released seven days  बाद on 17 नवम्बर in  the United States .
Introduction into other world markets was delayed by a shortage of diodes for use in  the blu-ray डिस्क खिलाड़ी ; the  device was launched in European and other world markets in the first half of 2007 .
Lauren Fenmore Baldwin ( formerly Williams and  grainger ) is a fictional अक्षर इससे the सीबीएस  soap operas The Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful , portrayed by Tracey E. Bregman .
She made her debut during the  एपीसोड airing  on January 21 , 1983 .
In 1992 , Bregman began making sporadic appearances on The Bold and the Beautiful , later resulting in the character migrating there  fully in 1995  .
Following a guest appearance in 2000 , Bregman returned to The Young and the  बेचैन on अगस्त 24 , 2001 , बाकी on पुनरावर्ती  status .
In 2013 , it was announced that Bregman  था महरूम लगाई  on contract .
Much of Lauren 's history has revolved around her romances with Paul Williams , Scott Grainger , Sr. , and Michael Baldwin among many  अन्य causing a fierce फंसने  with Traci Abbott Connolly .
Lauren is also famous for her long , violent rivalry with  शीला कार्टर  .
The 2010 NBA Finals was the National Basketball  संघ ( एनबीए ) चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी  for the 2009–10 season .
The best-of-seven playoff was contested between the Los Angeles Lakers , champions of the Western Conference and defending NBA champions , and the Boston Celtics , champions  of the पूर्वी सम्मेलन  .
The Lakers defeated the  सेल्टिक्स , चार खेल to तीन , to जीत the मताधिकार  's 16th NBA championship .
the 64th संस्करण of the चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी थी निभाई between  June 3 and June 17 , was broadcast on ABC , and was watched by an average of 18.1 million people .
The Celtics earned their  berth into the playoffs  by winning the Atlantic Division .
The Lakers won the Pacific  प्रभाग to earn  their berth .
The Celtics reached the NBA Finals by defeating  the मियामी ऊष्मा in the best-of-seven पूर्वी  Conference First Round , the Cleveland Cavaliers in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Semifinals , and defending Eastern conference champion Orlando Magic in the best-of-seven Eastern Conference Finals .
The Lakers  पहुँचे the एनबीए फाइनल by defeating the ओक्लाहोमा नगर थंडर in the best-of-seven  Western Conference First Round , the Utah Jazz in the best-of-seven Western Conference Semifinals , and the Phoenix Suns in the best-of-seven Western Conference Finals .
The NBA Finals were scheduled in the Major League Baseball World Series 2–3–2 seven game format , with the Lakers possessing  home-court लाभ as a बदला लिये finishing साथ बेहतर नियमित ऋतु  record than the Celtics .
Repeated baskets from starters Kobe Bryant , Pau Gasol , and Ron Artest brought the  लेकर्स बंद to विजय in खेल  1 .
A record breaking performance from Ray Allen 's  आठ three-point  baskets ensured the Celtics a Game 2 triumph .
Derek Fisher ’s 11 points in the fourth quarter helped the  लेकर्स जीत खेल 3  .
The Celtics  जीती खेल 4 ; it किया n't ठेस कि वे netted  an excellent performance in baskets by the team’s reserves , while Paul Pierce led the team to a Game 5 win with 27 points on 57 % shooting from the floor .
The Lakers avoided elimination by winning a decisive Game 6 with  24 अंक contributed by  their bench .
Although they trailed the Celtics by 13 points early in the third quarter , the Lakers rallied and won their second consecutive championship by taking over an  रोमांचक खेल 7 aided by लेट योगदान on ठोकर by pau gasol और artest और  rebounding .
Bryant was named Most Valuable Player of the Finals for his  दूसरी लगातार ट्रॉफी  .
This was the first NBA Finals to go the full seven games  चूंकि और तभी the चौथी चूंकि the एनबीए  Finals returned to a 2–3–2 format in .
The Laker  मताधिकार रै 16 एनबीए championships  ( Five in Minneapolis , 11 in Los Angeles ) trailing the Celtics ' seventeen championships .
The NBA Finals used the `` World Series '' Format in 1949  मिनियापोलिस लेकर्स पराजित the वॉशिंगटन capitols 4 खेल to 2 ; in 1953 मिनियापोलिस पराजित the नई यॉर्क knicks 4 खेल  to 1 ; in 1954 Minneapolis defeated the Syracuse Nationals 4 games to 3 ; and in 1955 Syracuse Nationals defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons 4 games to 3 .
The NBA would return to the 2–2–1–1–1 National Hockey League  सात खेल श्रेणी स्वरूप जबतक  1985 .
Black pepper ( Piper nigrum  ) is a flowering बेल in the  family Piperaceae , cultivated for its fruit , which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning .
The  फल , ज्ञात  as a peppercorn when dried , is approximately in diameter , dark red when fully mature , and , like all drupes , contains a single seed .
Peppercorns , and the ground pepper derived from them , may be described simply as  pepper , or अधिक precisely as ब्लैक pepper  ( cooked and dried unripe fruit ) , green pepper ( dried unripe fruit ) and white pepper ( dried ripe seeds ) .
Black pepper is native to south India , and is  extensively cultivated  there and elsewhere in tropical regions .
Currently Vietnam is the world 's largest producer  और निर्यातक of pepper , producing 34  % of the world 's Piper nigrum crop as of 2008 .
Dried ground pepper has been used since  प्राचीनता  for both its flavour and as a medicine .
Black pepper is the world 's most  traded मसाला  .
It is one of the most  आम मसाले added to  European cuisine and its descendants .
The spiciness of black pepper is due to the chemical piperine , not to be confused with the capsaicin that  देता मांसल मिर्च  theirs .
It is in the modern world , often paired  साथ नमक  .
In cardiovascular physiology , ejection fraction ( EF ) represents the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle ( heart ) with each  दिल ताल or हृदय  cycle .
It can be applied to either the right ventricle which ejects via the  pulmonary वाल्व into the pulmonary परिसंचरण or the बाएँ ventricle जिससे  ejects via the aortic valve into the systemic circulation .
इमेजिंग of the physiology of  the mammalian heart is the art that allows meaningful mathematical expression defining EF .
Noninvasive cardiac imaging has become a worldwide utility enabling study of  हृदय प्रदर्शन  reproducibly and inexpensively .
सरलीकृत , ejection भिन्न  is a mathematical product allowed by cardiac imaging .
As a  गणितीय पद , ejection भिन्न  is an extension of the work of Adolph Fick in cardiac output .
Dedicated technology such as Echocardiography , Computed Tomography , Magnetic Resonance Imaging and MUGA scanning have  definitively अनुमत clinically प्रासंगिक गणित regarding ischemia  , Congenital Heart Disease and Heart Failure .
The prosecutor is the chief legal representative of the prosecution in  देशों साथ either the आम  law adversarial system , or the civil law inquisitorial system .
The prosecution is the legal party responsible for presenting  the मामला in a दण्ड विचारण विरूद्ध an  individual accused of breaking the law .
Strawberry shortcake most commonly means a dessert in the  shortcake परिवार of  cakes .
स्ट्रॉबेरी shortcake  may also refer to:
Strawberry Shortcake , a character and  मताधिकार निर्मित  by American Greetings
The  shortened शीर्षक  of Strawberry on the Shortcake , a Japanese romance movie .
Abū al-Qāsim Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ) , also transliterated as Muhammad ( ) , was a religious , political , and military leader from  मक्का जो एकीकृत अरब into  a single religious polity under Islam .
He is believed by Muslims and  bahá'ís to be a मेसेंजर  and prophet of God .
मुहम्मद is लगभग universally माना  by Muslims as the last prophet sent by God for mankind .
non-muslims लिहाज़ मुहम्मद as the संस्थापक of islam .
Muslims consider him to be the restorer of an unaltered  असली monotheistic  faith of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets .
Born in about 570 CE in the Arabian city  of मक्का , he थी अनाथ at an जल्दी आयु और brought  up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly as a merchant , as well as  a गड़रिये , और  was first married by age 25 .
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains  लिये अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ  , he later reported that it was there , at age 40 , that he received his first revelation from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly , proclaiming that `` God is One `` , that  पूरा `` आत्मसमर्पण ''  to Him ( lit .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God , and that he  खुद थी a नबी और मेसेंजर of परमेश्वर , in the  same vein as other Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few followers early on , and was met with hostility from some Meccan  जनजातियों ; he और उसके अनुसरणकर्ता यहूद  treated harshly .
To escape persecution , Muhammad sent some of his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca  migrated to मदीना ( तब ज्ञात as  Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
This event , the Hijra  , marks the शुरूआत of the इस्लामी  calendar , which is also known as the Hijri Calendar .
In Medina , Muhammad  संयुक्त the जनजातियों  under the Constitution of Medina .
After eight  सालो of लड़ साथ the meccan जनजातियों , उसके  followers , who by then had grown to 10,000 , took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
He destroyed the pagan idols in the city and then sent his  अनुसरणकर्ता आउट to नष्ट सब of the बाकी  pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
In 632  , a few महीने बाद returning  to Medina from The Farewell Pilgrimage , Muhammad fell ill and died .
By the time of his death , most of the Arabian  प्रायद्वीप था परिवर्तित to islam ,  and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity .
The  खुलासे  ( or Ayah , lit .
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which  मुहम्मद reported receiving जबतक उसके मौत –  form the verses of the Quran , regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based .
Besides the Quran , Muhammad 's life ( sira ) and  परंपराओं ( सुन्नत ) हैं भी upheld by  Muslims as the sources of sharia law .
They discuss Muhammad and  अन्य नबियों of islam साथ reverence , adding the  phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned .
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times were largely  ऋणात्मक , appraisals in आधुनिक  history have been far less so .
The Great Books (  दूसरी संस्करण )
Great Books of the  पश्चिमी संसार  is a series of books originally published in the United States in 1952 by Encyclopædia Britannica Inc. to present the Great Books in a single package of 54 volumes .
The series is now in its second edition  और contains 60  volumes .
The original editors of the series chose three criteria for inclusion : a book must be relevant to contemporary issues , and not only important in its historical context ; it must reward rereading ; and it must be a part of `` the great conversation about the great ideas ,  '' प्रासंगिक to at तनिक 25 of the 102 ग्रेट विचार पहचाना by the  editors .
Books were not chosen on the basis of ethnic or cultural inclusiveness , historical  influence , or the सम्पादक ' अनुबंध साथ the दृश्य expressed  .
`` Cocaine '' is a song written and recorded by JJ Cale  in 1976 , लकिन भी ज्ञात  as a cover version recorded by Eric Clapton .
Allmusic calls the latter `` among [  क्लैप्टन 's ] सबसे enduringly लोकप्रिय हिट्स '' और टीप कि ``  even for an artist like Clapton with a huge body of high-quality work , 'Cocaine ' ranks among his best . ''
Glyn Johns , who had previously worked with The Who , Led Zeppelin and The Rolling Stones ,  उत्पादित the क्लैप्टन  recording , which was released on Clapton 's 1977 album Slowhand and as a single in 1980 .
The live version of `` Cocaine '' , from the Just One  रात्रि एल्बम अंकित in टोकियो , charted on the  Billboard Hot 100 as the B-side of `` Tulsa Time `` , which was a No . 30 hit in 1980. ``
Cocaine ''  थी एक of अनेक of cale 's गीतों अंकित  by Clapton , including `` After Midnight `` and `` Travelin ' Light '' .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of Pearl Harbor ) was a surprise military strike conducted by the Imperial Japanese  नेवी विरूद्ध the संयुक्त राज्य नवल आधार at पर्ल हार्बर , हवाई , on the morning of दिसम्बर 7 , 1941 ( दिसम्बर 8 in जापानी )  .
इससे the standpoint of the defenders  , the attack commenced at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions the  साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the  United Kingdom , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters , bombers and torpedo planes in two  लहरें  , launched from six aircraft carriers .
All  आठ u.S. नेवी battleships  were damaged , with four being sunk .
Two of these were later raised , and with the remaining four  repaired , छह battleships लौटे  to service later in the war .
The Japanese also sank or damaged three  cruisers , तीन destroyers  , an anti-aircraft training ship , and one minelayer .
188 U.S. aircraft were destroyed ; 2,402 Americans  यहूद मारे और 1,282  wounded .
महत्वपूर्ण आधार संस्थापना ऐसे as the शक्ति स्टेशन , डॉकयार्ड , मेंटेनेंस  , and fuel and torpedo storage facilities , as well as the submarine piers and headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses were light : 29  वायुयान और पाँच midget submarines  lost , and 65 servicemen killed or wounded .
One  जापानी  sailor was captured .
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led directly   to the American entry into World War II in both the Pacific and European theaters .
The following day ( December   8 ) , the United States declared war on Japan .
Domestic support for non-interventionism , which had  महरूम दमदार  , disappeared .
clandestine support of ब्रिटेन ( लिये  example the Neutrality Patrol ) was replaced by active alliance .
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to declare war on the  u.S. on दिसम्बर 11 , जिससे थी reciprocated by  the U.S. the same day .
There were numerous historical precedents for  unannounced सैन्य कार्रवाई by  Japan .
However , the lack of any formal warning , particularly while negotiations were still apparently ongoing , led President Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7  , 1941 , `` a तिथि जिससे होगा सजीव in infamy `` .
Project Runway Season 2 was the  दूसरी ऋतु of ब्रावो  's successful Project Runway , a reality competition for fashion designers .
Season 2 began airing  on दिसम्बर  7 , 2005 .
Following a nationwide search earlier in the year , sixteen  designers यहूद चुनी as semi-finalists और brought to नई यॉर्क नगर  in June , 2005 .
After the first challenge , called `` Road To The Runway '' ,  चौदह गई on to compete as finalists  .
The winning designer , Chloe Dao , received $ 100,000  in बीज धन to सहायता लॉन्च उसके अपना लकीर , a 2007  Saturn Sky roadster , a spread in ELLE magazine , and a mentorship with the Banana Republic Design Team .
Winning alongside Dao was her model , Grace Kelsey , who received  the elle पत्रिका  spread .
माइकल kors और नीना गार्सिया  returned as judges for the second season .
The fourth  judging सीट घुमाया  each week , based on the challenge .
Tim Gunn , fashion chair at Parsons The New School for Design ,  लौटे as a mentor लिये the designers  .
Kara Janx later appeared  in प्रोजेक्ट रनवे : सब सितारों in  2012 , where she finished 7th out of 13 .
Andrae Gonzalo , in the  वही साल , competed  in the second season of the All Stars edition placing 10th out of 13 .
An example  of a heraclius  mule
In numismatics  , a खच्चर is  a coin or medal minted with obverse and reverse designs not normally seen on the same piece .
These can be intentional or  उत्पादित by गलती  .
This type of error is highly sought after , and examples can fetch  steep कीमतें इससे collectors  .
The  earliest mules हैं मिला  among ancient Greek and Roman coins .
Opinion is divided between those who think that they are accidental , the result of an incorrect combination of a new  die साथ एक कि था officially महरूम withdrawn इससे उपयोग , or the कार्य of coiners working साथ मरता चुराया इससे an आधिकारिक मिंट , शायद at a समय जब एक of उन्हें चाहिए  have been destroyed .
The name derives from the mule , the hybrid offspring of a horse and a donkey , due to such a coin  having दो पहलू intended लिये अलग  coins , much as a mule has parents of two different species .
This page documents the tornadoes and  बवंडर outbreaks  of 2010 .
The majority of tornadoes form in the U.S. , but  वे can occur  almost anywhere under the right conditions .
A lesser number occur outside the U.S. , most notably in parts of neighboring southern  कनाडा दौरान the उत्तरी गोलार्ध 's गर्मियाँ ऋतु , लकिन हैं भी  known in South America , Europe , Asia , and Australia .
There were 1,531 tornadoes reported in the United States in 2010 ( of  जिससे at तनिक 1,266 यहूद पुष्टि ) ,  with 45 confirmed fatalities .
Elsewhere in the world , 11 people were killed in tornadoes , six in Argentina ,  तीन in the बहामा , एक in बांग्लादेश , और  one in Germany .
The year was near average for tornadoes despite an extremely quiet early  वसन्त काल , however  such changed after a huge upswing starting in late April and a busy late spring and summer period .
The autumn months  यहूद थोड़ा ऊपर औसत  .
A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell in  the vertebrate  immune system .
Under the microscope ,  lymphocytes can be विभाजित into  large lymphocytes and small lymphocytes .
Large granular lymphocytes  शामिल प्राकृतिक कातिल कोशिकाएं  ( NK cells ) .
Small lymphocytes  consist of t कोशिकाएं  and B cells .
Windows PowerShell is Microsoft 's task automation framework , consisting of a  command-line शेल और  associated scripting language built on .NET Framework .
PowerShell provides full access to COM and WMI , enabling administrators  to perform प्रशासनिक कार्य on दोनो लोकल और रिमोट खिड़कियाँ प्रणालियों  .
In PowerShell , administrative tasks are generally performed by cmdlets ( pronounced command-lets ) ,  जिससे हैं specialized .neT वर्ग implementing  a particular operation .
Sets of cmdlets may be combined together in  स्क्रिप्ट , executables ( जिससे हैं स्टैंडअलोन अनुप्रयोग ) , or by instantiating  regular .NET classes ( or WMI/COM Objects ) .
These work by  accessing आंकड़ा in अलग आंकड़ा स्टोर्स  , like the filesystem or registry , which are made available to the PowerShell runtime via Windows PowerShell providers .
Windows PowerShell also provides a hosting API with  जिससे the खिड़कियाँ powershell runtime can  be embedded inside other applications .
These applications can then use Windows PowerShell functionality to implement certain  परिचालन , सहित those उजागर  via the graphical interface .
This capability has  महरूम प्रयुक्त by microsoft एक्सचेंज  Server 2007 to expose its management functionality as PowerShell cmdlets and providers and implement the graphical management tools as PowerShell hosts which invoke the necessary cmdlets .
Other Microsoft applications including Microsoft SQL Server 2008 also expose their management interface  via powershell  cmdlets .
With PowerShell , graphical  interface-based प्रबन्धन  applications on Windows are layered on top of Windows PowerShell .
A  powershell एनक्रिप्शन इंटरफ़ेस लिये खिड़कियाँ  products is mandated by the Common Engineering Criteria .
Windows PowerShell includes its own extensive ,  console-based सहायता , समान to man  pages in Unix shells , via the Get-Help cmdlet .
Mary Poppins is a 1964 musical film starring Julie Andrews , Dick Van Dyke , David Tomlinson , and  glynis जॉन्स , उत्पादित by वॉल्ट डिज़्नी , और आधारित on the  Mary Poppins books series by P. L. Travers .
The film was directed by Robert Stevenson and written by Bill Walsh and Don DaGradi , with  गीतों by the शरमन भाइयो  .
It was shot at  वॉल्ट डिज़्नी studios  in Burbank , California .
Julie Andrews won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her  प्रदर्शन as मरियम poppins और the फिल्मी भी जीती ऑस्कर लिये बेहतरीन फिल्मी  Editing , Original Music Score , Best Song for `` Chim Chim Cher-ee '' and Best Visual Effects , and received a total of 13 nominations .
A story arc is an extended or continuing storyline in episodic storytelling media such as television , comic books ,  कॉमिक स्ट्रिप्स , boardgames , वीडियो खेल , और in कुछ मामले  , films .
On a television program , for example , the story would unfold  over अनेक एपीसोड  .
In television  , the उपयोग of the स्टोरी चाप is much अधिक  common in dramas than in comedies , especially in soap operas .
Webcomics are more likely to use story arcs than  समाचारपत्र कॉमिक्स , as सबसे वेब कॉमिक्स have पठनीय अभिलेख ऑनलाइन कि a newcomer  to the strip can read in order to understand what is going on .
Although story arcs have existed for decades , the term `` story arc '' was coined in 1988 in  संबंध to the टेलीविज़न श्रेणी wiseguy  , and was quickly adapted for other uses .
Many American comic  किताब श्रेणी हैं अभी लिखा  in four or six-issue arcs , within a continuing series .
Short story arcs are easier to package as trade paperbacks  लिये पुनर्विक्रय , और अधिक accessible to the  casual reader than the never-ending continuity that once characterised comics .
Black Friday is the day following Thanksgiving Day in the United States , often  regarded as the शुरूआत of the  Christmas shopping season .
In recent years , most major retailers have opened extremely early and offered  promotional बिक्री to  kick off the holiday shopping season , similar to Boxing Day sales in many Commonwealth Nations .
Black Friday is not an official public holiday as such , but many non-retail employees and schools  have दोनो थैंक्सगिविंग और the दिन बाद बंद , followed by a वीकेंड  , thereby increasing the number of potential shoppers .
It has routinely been the busiest shopping day of the year since 2005 , although news reports , which at that time were  inaccurate , have वर्णित it as the व्यस्ततम खरीदारी  day of the year for a much longer period of time .
The day 's name originated in Philadelphia , where it  originally थी प्रयुक्त  to describe the heavy and disruptive pedestrian and vehicle traffic which would occur on the day after Thanksgiving .
Use of the term started before 1961 and began to see broader use outside  फिलाडेल्फिया  around 1975 .
Later an alternative  स्पष्टीकरण began to be offered : कि `` ब्लैक शुक्रवार '' indicates  the point at which retailers begin to turn a profit , or are `` '' .
For many years , it was common for  रिटेलर to खोलें at 6:00 a.m.  , but in the late 2000s many had crept to 5:00 or even 4:00 .
This was taken to a new extreme in 2011 ,  जब अनेक  retailers ( including Target , Kohl 's , Macy 's , Best Buy , and Bealls ) opened at midnight for the first time .
In 2012 , Walmart and several other retailers announced that they would open most of their stores at 8:00 p.m. on  थैंक्सगिविंग दिन ( मगर in राज्य जहाँ खोलने on थैंक्सगिविंग is निषिद्ध  due to blue laws , such as Massachusetts where they still opened around midnight ) , prompting calls for a walkout among some workers .
Black Friday shopping is  ज्ञात लिये attracting आक्रामक crowds  , with annual reports of assaults , shootings , and throngs of people trampling on other shoppers in an attempt to get the best deal on a product before supplies run out .
The Family That Preys is a 2008 American  फिल्म नाटक लिखा , उत्पादित  , and directed by Tyler Perry .
The screenplay focuses on two families , one wealthy and the  अन्य working क्लास , जिनकी जीवनदान हैं intertwined  in both love and business .
The movie is the second of four in which Perry  's हस्ताक्षर अक्षर , madea , करता नहीं  make an appearance .
It is also the second  perry-directed फिल्मी ( alongside पापा 's  Little Girls ) that is not based on any of the filmmaker 's stage plays .
Net 10 , Net 15 , Net 30 and  जाल 60 ( भी जाल 10 दिनों , et al ) हैं फ़ॉर्म of व्यापार क्रेडिट जिससे बताएँ कि the जाल राशि ( the  total outstanding on the invoice ) is expected to be paid in full and received by the seller within 10 , 15 , 30 or 60 days after the goods are dispatched or service is completed .
Net 30 or Net 60 terms are often coupled  साथ a क्रेडिट लिये जल्दी  payment .
The word net  in इस भाव  means `` total after all discounts . ''
It originally derives from the Latin nitere ( to shine ) and nitidus ( elegant , trim ) , and  अधिक recently इससे the फ्रेंच जाल ( शार्प  , neat , clean ) .
roadtown ,  Tortola
The British West Indies were the islands in and around  the caribbean कि यहूद भाग of  the British Empire .
In 1912 , the British West Indies were divided into eight colonies : The Bahamas , Barbados , British Guiana , British Honduras , Jamaica ( with its dependencies  the turks और caicos आइलैंड्स और the केमन आइलैंड्स ) , त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो  , the Windward Islands and the Leeward Islands .
Between 1958 and 1962 , all of the island territories except the British Virgin Islands , the Bahamas , British  होंडुरास और अंग्रेजों guiana  were organised into the West Indies Federation .
It was hoped that the Federation would become independent as a single nation , but  it था सीमित शक्तियां , अनेक व्यावहारिक समस्याएं , और  a lack of popular support .
Consequently , the West  इंडीज संघ  was dissolved .
Most of the territories , including all the larger ones , are now independent as separate countries , with membership to many international forums such as  the संगठन of अमरीकी राज्य , the संघ of caribbean राज्य , the संसार व्यापार संगठन  , the United Nations , the Caribbean Community , the Commonwealth of Nations and the Caribbean Development Bank among others .
The remainder  हैं अंग्रेजों विदेशी territories  .
All the former nations of the British West Indies , except the  राष्ट्रमंडल of डोमिनिकन , गुयाना और त्रिनिदाद  and Tobago , are Commonwealth Realms .
The term is still  प्रयुक्त लिये अंग्रेजों विदेशी  Territories in the Caribbean , such as the Cayman Islands .
The remaining British  वेस्ट इंडीज
`` What a Wonderful World '' is a song written  by bob thiele ( as `` जार्ज  Douglas '' ) and George David Weiss .
it थी पहला अंकित  by Louis Armstrong and released as a single in 1967 .
Thiele and Weiss were both  prominent in the म्यूज़िक संसार  ( Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer ) .
Armstrong 's recording was  inducted in the  Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999 .
The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music  समूह , कार्लिन  Music Corp. , and Bug Music , Inc .
Inauguration Day  2009 on the वेस्ट कदम of the u.S.  Capitol .
President George  W. बुश और पहला महिला लौरा बुश सीसे  the inaugural parade down Pennsylvania Avenue to the White House , 2005
The inauguration of the president of  the संयुक्त राज्य  is a ceremonial event marking the commencement of a new four-year term of a president of the United States .
The  दिन a अध्यक्षीय  inauguration occurs is known as `` Inauguration Day '' and occurs on January 20 ( or 21st if the 20th is a Sunday ) .
( Prior to the Twentieth Amendment , the date was March 4 , the day of the year on which the Constitution of the United States first took effect in 1789 ; the last inauguration to take place on the older date was Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट 's पहला एक on कूच 4 , 1933  . )
The most recent public presidential  उद्घाटन रस्म , the swearing in of अध्यक्ष बराक ओबामा to  begin his second four-year term in office , took place on Monday , January 21 , 2013 .
The only inauguration  तत्व mandated by the संयुक्त  States Constitution is that the president make an oath or affirmation before that person can `` enter on the Execution '' of the office of the presidency .
However , over the years , various traditions have arisen that have expanded the inauguration from a simple  oath-taking रस्म to a day-long इवेंट  , including parades , speeches , and balls .
From the presidency of Andrew Jackson  through कि of jimmy कार्टर , the प्राथमिक उद्घाटन  Day ceremony took place on the Capitol 's East Portico .
Since the 1981  उद्घाटन of  Ronald Reagan , the ceremony has been held at the Capitol 's West Front .
The inaugurations of William Howard Taft in 1909 and Reagan in 1985 were moved  indoors at the कैपिटल due to ठंडा  weather .
The War of 1812 and World War  ii caused दो inaugurations  to be held at other locations in Washington , D.C .
When George Washington was inaugurated , the oath was administered by Robert Livingston ,  चांसलर of नई यॉर्क राज्य , in  1789 , and by William Cushing , Associate Justice of the Supreme Court , in 1793 .
Since Chief Justice Oliver Ellsworth  swore in अध्यक्ष  John Adams , no chief justice has missed an Inauguration Day .
When Inauguration Day has fallen on a Sunday , the chief justice has administered  the शपथ to the अध्यक्ष on the संडे privately और तब again  the next day publicly .
When a new president takes over mid-term due to the death or resignation of a president , the  शपथ of दफ्तर is administered लकिन औपचारिक  , public inauguration events have not been held .
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta ( ; born March 28 , 1986 ) , known by her stage name Lady Gaga , is an American singer , songwriter , record producer , dancer  , activist , businesswoman , फ़ैशन पंक्तियां , अभिनेत्री और लोकसेवक  .
Born and raised in New York City , she primarily studied at the Convent of the Sacred Heart and briefly attended New York University 's Tisch  स्कूल of the कला पहले  withdrawing to focus on her musical career .
She soon began  performing in the  rock music scene of Manhattan 's Lower East Side .
By the end of 2007 , record executive and producer Vincent  हर्बर्ट हस्ताक्षरित उसके to उसके लेबल  Streamline Records , an imprint of Interscope Records .
Initially working as a songwriter at Interscope Records , her vocal abilities  captured the ध्यान of रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार एकॉन , जो  also signed her to Kon Live Distribution , his own label under Interscope .
Lady Gaga came to prominence as a recording artist following the release  of उसके डेब्यू एल्बम , the कीर्ति ( 2008 ) , जिससे थी a नाजुक और वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी कि अव्वल  charts around the world and included the international number-one singles `` Just Dance `` and `` Poker Face `` .
After embarking on the The Fame Ball Tour , she followed the album with The Fame Monster ( 2009 ) , which spawned the worldwide hit singles ``  ख़राब रोमांस `` ,  `` Telephone `` , and `` Alejandro `` .
The Fame Monsters  कामयाबी अनुमत उसके to embark on the eighteen-month long  Monster Ball Tour , which later became one of the highest-grossing concert tours of all time .
Her most recent album , Born  इस रास्ता ( 2011 ) , अव्वल the चार्ट  of most major markets and generated more international chart-topping singles , including `` Born This Way `` , `` Judas `` , and `` The Edge of Glory `` .
Influenced by Britney Spears , David Bowie , Michael  जैक्सन , मैडोना , और महारानी , महिला गागा is पहचाना  for her flamboyant , diverse and outré contributions to the music industry through her fashion , performances and music videos .
As of October 2011 , she has sold an estimated 23 million albums  और 64 लाख singles विश्वव्यापी और उसके singles हैं कुछ  of the best-selling worldwide .
Her achievements  शामिल पाँच ग्रैमी  Awards and 13 MTV Video Music Awards .
Lady Gaga has consecutively appeared on Billboard magazine 's Artists of the Year ( scoring the definitive title in 2010 ) , ranked fourth in VH1 's list of 100 Greatest Women in Music , is the sixth best selling digital singles artist in  us according to riaa  , is regularly placed on lists composed by Forbes magazine and was named one of the most influential people in the world by Time magazine .
Besides her musical career , she involves herself  साथ humanitarian कल्याणकारी और lgbt  activism .
McKethan Stadium home  of घड़ियाल  baseball
A  चित्र of the  1924 Baseball team
The Florida Gators baseball  टोली represents  the University of Florida in the sport of baseball .
The Florida Gators compete in Division I of the National Collegiate Athletics Association ( NCAA ) , and the Eastern  प्रभाग of the southeastern सम्मेलन  ( SEC ) .
They play their home  खेल in अल्फ्रेड A. mckethan  Stadium on the university 's Gainesville , Florida campus , and are currently led by head coach Kevin O'Sullivan .
In the ninety-eight season history of the Gators baseball program , the team has won twelve SEC championships and  रै appeared in आठ  College World Series tournaments .
`` Electioneering  '' redirects  here .
For the  radiohead सोंग  , see OK Computer .
अध्यक्षीय अभियान  button for Abraham Lincoln , 1860 .
The reverse side of the button shows a portrait of his  कार्यशील  mate Hannibal Hamlin .
A political campaign  is an व्यवस्थित प्रयत्न जिससे  seeks to influence the decision making process within a specific group .
In democracies , political campaigns often refer to electoral campaigns ,  wherein प्रतिनिधि हैं चुनी or referendums  are decided .
In modern politics , the most high profile political campaigns are  केन्द्रित on उम्मीदवार लिये सिर of राज्य or सिर of सरकारी  , often a President or Prime Minister .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and her  बेटी  , Harriot
Elizabeth Cady Stanton ( November 12  , 1815 – अक्तूबर  26 , 1902 ) was an American social activist , abolitionist , and leading figure of the early women 's rights movement .
Her Declaration of Sentiments , presented at the first women 's rights convention held in 1848 in Seneca Falls , New York , is often credited with initiating the first organized women 's rights and  महिलाओं 's suffrage आंदोलनों  in the United States .
Before Stanton narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to women 's rights , she was an active abolitionist together with her husband , Henry Brewster  stanton और cousin , gerrit  Smith .
Unlike many of those involved in the women 's  अधिकारों गति , stanton addressed  various issues pertaining to women beyond voting rights .
Her concerns included women 's parental and custody rights , property rights , employment and income rights , divorce , the economic  स्वास्थ्य of the परिवार  , and birth control .
She was also an outspoken supporter of the 19th-century  temperance गति  .
After the American Civil  युद्ध , stanton 's प्रतिबद्धता to मादा suffrage caused a schism in the महिलाओं 's अधिकारों  movement when she , together with Susan B. Anthony , declined to support passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution .
She opposed giving added legal protection and voting rights  to अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी मेन जबकि महिलाओं , ब्लैक  and white , were denied those same rights .
Her position on this issue , together with her thoughts on organized Christianity and women 's issues beyond  मतदान अधिकारों , led to the गठन of दो पृथक महिलाओं 's अधिकारों संगठन कि यहूद आखिरकार rejoined , साथ stanton  as president of the joint organization , approximately twenty years after her break from the original women 's suffrage movement .
Stanton died in 1902 having authored both The Woman 's  बाइबल और उसके आत्मकथा  , along with many articles and pamphlets concerning female suffrage and women 's rights .
My Fair Lady is a musical based upon  जार्ज बर्नार्ड शॉ 's pygmalion और साथ  book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe .
the स्टोरी चिंताएं eliza doolittle , a काकनी  flower girl who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins , a phoneticist , so that she may pass as a well-born lady .
The musical 's  1956 ब्रॉडवे उत्पादन थी a hit , सेटिंग कया  was then the record for the longest run of any major musical theatre production in history .
It was  followed by a hit लंदन उत्पादन , a लोकप्रिय  film version , and numerous revivals .
It  रै महरूम पुकारा  `` the perfect musical '' .
Deregulation is the act or process of removing or  reducing राज्य regulations  .
It is therefore opposite of regulation , which refers to the process of  the सरकारी regulating  certain activities .
The Boston Bruins Radio Network  is a 25-station ( 17 a.M. , 8 f.m . प्लस 2 f.m  . translators ) CBS Radio network which carries live game broadcasts of the Boston Bruins .
The network 's flagship station is WBZ-FM  /98.5- बोस्टन , मैसाचुसेट्स  .
Dave Goucher announces  play-by-play  .
Bob  beers provides  color commentary .
This article is about the  छोटी स्टोरी .
For the poem by Sara Teasdale ,  देखिए वहीँ होगा आइये  Soft Rains .
`` There Will Come Soft Rains  '' is a छोटी स्टोरी by विज्ञान fiction  author Ray Bradbury which was first published in the May 6 , 1950 issue of Collier 's .
Later  कि वही साल the स्टोरी थी  included in Bradbury 's The Martian Chronicles ( 1950 ) .
With over 1.2 billion people , Han Chinese is the  largest जातीय समूह in  the world .
Pashtun people of the Pashtunistan region , which sits in an area between south of the Hindu Kush in Afghanistan and the Indus  नदी in पाकिस्तानी  .
वे क्रमांक around  50 million .
The Korowai people of Papua  गिने बस around 3,000  people , and were uncontacted until the 1970s .
Ethnicity or ethnic group is a socially defined  श्रेणी आधारित on आम संस्कृति or राष्ट्रीयता  .
Ethnicity can , but does not have to , include common ancestry , appearance , cuisine , dressing style , heritage , history , language or dialect ,  धर्म , प्रतीकों , परंपराओं , or अन्य सांस्कृतिक  factor .
Ethnic identity is constantly reinforced through common characteristics  जिससे नियत the समूह अलावा इससे  other groups .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of storage and can supply  शक्ति  24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the sun , has been harnessed by  इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स using a दायरा of  ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar  photovoltaics , सौर थर्मल विद्युत , सौर वास्तुकला  and artificial photosynthesis , which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly  characterized as either passive  solar or active solar depending on the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar  तकनीकों शामिल the उपयोग of photovoltaic  panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun , selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light  dispersing गुण , और  designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that `` the  विकास of सस्ती , inexhaustible और साफ  solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security through  रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी , inexhaustible  and mostly import-independent resource , enhance sustainability , reduce pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These advantages  हैं वैश्विक  .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment  चाहिए be माना सीखना निवेश ; वे  must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared '' .
The classical Latin alphabet or Roman alphabet evolved from a western variety of the Greek alphabet called the Cumaean alphabet , which was adopted and modified  by  the Etruscans who ruled early Rome .
The Etruscan alphabet was in turn adopted and further  परिवर्धित by  the ancient Romans to write the Latin language .
During the Middle Ages , the Latin alphabet was adapted to Romance languages  , सीधा वंशजों of लैटिन , as खूब  as to Celtic , Germanic , Baltic , and some Slavic languages .
With the age of colonialism and Christian evangelism , the Latin  स्क्रिप्ट थी स्प्रेड विदेशी , और लागू to स्वदेशी अमरीकी  , Australian , Austronesian , Austroasiatic , and African languages .
More recently , linguists have also tended to prefer the Latin script or the International Phonetic Alphabet ( itself largely based on Latin script ) when transcribing or creating written standards for  non-european भाषाएं , ऐसे as the अफ़्रीकी सन्दर्भ वर्णमाला  .
The term Latin alphabet may refer to either the alphabet used to write Latin ( as described in this article ) , or other alphabets based on the Latin script , which is the basic set of letters common to the  विभिन्न alphabets descended इससे the शास्त्रीय लैटिन एक , ऐसे as the  English alphabet .
These Latin-derived alphabets may discard letters , like the Rotokas alphabet , or add   new letters , like the Danish and Norwegian alphabet .
Letter shapes have changed over the centuries , including the creation for Medieval Latin of lower case forms which  किया नहीं मौजूद  in the Classical period .
The assassination of United States President Abraham Lincoln took place on Good Friday , April 14 , 1865 , as the  अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध थी आरेखण to a बंद .
The assassination occurred five days after the commander of the Confederate Army  of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया , सामान्य रॉबर्ट E. ली , surrendered  to Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant and the Union Army of the Potomac .
Lincoln was the first American president to be assassinated , though an  unsuccessful attempt था महरूम बना on एंड्रयू जैक्सन  30 years before in 1835 .
The  हत्या थी नियोजित और carried आउट by the well-known  stage actor John Wilkes Booth , as part of a larger conspiracy in a bid to revive the Confederate cause .
Booth 's co-conspirators were Lewis Powell and David Herold , who were assigned to kill Secretary of State William H. Seward , and George Atzerodt who was  to मार वाइस अध्यक्ष एंड्रयू जॉनसन  .
By simultaneously eliminating the top three people in the administration ,  बूथ और उसके co-conspirators hoped to sever the  continuity of the United States government .
Lincoln was shot while watching the play Our American Cousin with his wife Mary Todd Lincoln at Ford 's  थिएटर  in Washington , D.C. on the night of April 14 , 1865 .
He died early the  अगला morning  .
The rest of the conspirators ' plot failed ; Powell only managed to wound Seward , while Atzerodt , Johnson 's would-be  हत्यारे , खोया उसके तंत्रिका और fled वॉशिंगटन  .
add-on  might mean:
Plug-in ( computing ) , a  टुकड़ा of तन्त्र जिससे enhances another  software application and usually can not be run independently
Browser extension , which modifies the interface  and/or बर्ताव of वेब  browsers
Add-on ( Mozilla ) , a piece  of तन्त्र कि enhances और  customizes Mozilla-based applications
Add-ons for Firefox ( addons.mozilla.org  ) ,  the official Mozilla Foundation web site which serves as a repository of add-ons for Mozilla-based applications
Peripheral , an optional computer  हार्डवेयर  component that significantly supplements or enhances the functionality of the original unit
Video game accessory , a piece of hardware used in  संयोजन साथ a वीडियो खेल कंसोल लिये playing वीडियो  games
क्लबों स्तर seating is a  special section of seating in modern sports stadiums .
The Club Level is usually located towards the middle  of the स्टेज of seating  sections , above the lower deck but below the upper deck .
They are usually right next to the Luxury Boxes , either right above , right  नीचे , or sandwiched between दो स्तर of लक्ज़री  Boxes .
Club Level seating is considered as higher class than sitting anywhere else in the arena  , लकिन निम्नतर क्लास compared to the लक्ज़री  Boxes .
Unlike the Luxury Boxes , most club levels do not wrap  entirely around the एरिना  .
Some club levels stop at a certain point ,  giving रास्ता to an विस्तार of the  Mezzanine , while others give way to lower class Luxury Boxes ( such as `` Party Suites '' ) .
A notable exception to this is Emirates Stadium in London , which has a  पूरा टियर of क्लबों  seating .
Club Levels  allow प्रशंसक अनेक स्तर  of entertainment .
Club Level seating is open to the elements , as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury boxes , which gives more of an outdoors impression at  roofless  and open-roof stadiums and arenas .
Club Level seating is normally bought on a contract basis to allow for maximum  लाभ  on the part of the stadium .
The Club Level provides fans with  खास अभिगम to an अंदर  part of the arena exclusive to fans with special tickets .
These areas are air conditioned and allow access to special restaurants , merchandise stands , and lounge areas of the  स्टेडियम कि हैं नहीं वरना  available .
रियायत स्टैंड और विक्रेता on the क्लबों  Level also often offer different menus than in other stands to give more of a special feel to the Club .
These areas are closed off to the rest of the stadium , and  वे प्रायः can तभी be पहुँचा through  the exclusive , private club entrances .
Sophia Loren ( ; born Sofia  villani scicolone ; 20 सितंबर  1934 ) is an Italian actress .
Loren is widely  पहचाना as इटली 's सबसे  renowned and honored actress .
She was the first actress of the talkie era to win an Academy Award for a non-English-speaking  प्रदर्शन , लिये उसके portrayal of cesira in vittorio  De Sica 's Two Women .
Her other awards include a Grammy Award ,  पाँच खास सुनहरी ग्लोब्स  , a BAFTA Award and a Laurel Award .
In 1995 she received the  सेसिल B. demille पुरस्कार  for lifetime achievements , one of many such awards .
Her films include : Houseboat ( 1958 ) ,  el सीआईडी ( 1961  ) , Yesterday , Today and Tomorrow ( 1963 ) , Marriage Italian-Style ( 1964 ) , and A Special Day ( 1977 ) .
In later years she has appeared  in अमरीकी blockbusters ऐसे as grumpier बूढ़ा मेन  ( 1995 ) , and Nine ( 2009 ) .
In 1994 she starred in Robert Altman 's  prêt-à-porter , जिससे अर्जित उसके a  Golden Globe nomination the same year .
She  रै भी हासिल नाजुक और  commercial success in TV movies such as Courage ( 1986 ) .
मौतों लिये self-inflicted  injuries per 100,000 inhabitants in 2004 .
Incidence of suicide  is underreported  due to both religious and social pressures , and possibly completely unreported in some areas .
Nevertheless , from reported cases , certain trends are  apparent  .
Since the data is skewed , comparing suicide rates  between राष्ट्र is statistically  unsound .
The trends themselves are not the  कारण , लकिन may  be indicative of a root cause .
The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls - South Africa is a female boarding  स्कूल संस्थापित in जनवरी 2007 और स्तिथ in henley on klip निकट  Meyerton , south of Johannesburg , South Africa .
The academy was founded by Oprah Winfrey with the goal of providing educational and leadership opportunities for academically gifted girls  इससे impoverished पृष्ठभूमि .
Oprah Winfrey  नेतृत्व  Academy for Girls
Digicel is a mobile phone network provider operating in 31 markets across the  caribbean , सेंट्रल अमेरिका  , and Oceania regions .
The company is owned by Irishman Denis O'Brien , is incorporated in  बरमूडा , और आधारित  in Jamaica .
It has about 13  लाख बेतार  users .
As of 2012 , Digicel 's markets comprise : Anguilla , Antigua and Barbuda , Aruba , Barbados , Bermuda , Bonaire , the British Virgin Islands , the Cayman Islands , Curacao , Dominica , El Salvador , Fiji , French Guiana , Grenada , Guadeloupe , Guyana , Haiti ,  जमैका , मार्टीनिक , प्रकृति , पनामा  , Papua New Guinea , Samoa , Saint Kitts and Nevis , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Suriname , Tonga , Trinidad & Tobago , Turks and Caicos , and Vanuatu .
This is a  सूची of रिकॉर्ड of the फीफा  World Cup and its qualification matches .
Hospital Emergency Codes are used in hospitals worldwide to alert  स्टाफ to विभिन्न  emergencies .
The use of codes is intended to convey essential information quickly and with minimal misunderstanding to staff  , जबकि preventing तनाव और  panic among visitors to the hospital .
These codes may be posted on placards  throughout the हॉस्पिटल , or मुद्रित  on employee identification badges for ready reference .
Back of a hospital ID badge  प्रर्दशित विपत्ति  codes .
Hospital emergency codes may denote  अलग कार्यक्रम at अलग अस्पताल  , including nearby ones .
Because many physicians work at more than one facility , this may lead to confusion in emergencies , so uniform   systems have been proposed .
The route of the Eifel aqueduct ,  साथ इसके  average slope .
the eifel जलसेतु थी एक of  the longest aqueducts of the Roman Empire .
The aqueduct , constructed in AD 80 , carried water some from the hilly Eifel  प्रदेश of कया is अभी जर्मनी to the  ancient city of Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium ( present-day Cologne ) .
If the auxiliary spurs to additional springs are included ,  the लंबाई थी  .
The construction was almost  entirely नीचे मैदान , और  the flow of the water was produced entirely by gravity .
A few  पुलों , सहित एक up to  in length , were needed to pass over valleys .
Unlike some of the other  प्रसिद्ध रोमन aqueducts , the eifel जलसेतु थी specifically  designed to minimize the above-ground portion to protect it from damage and freezing .
In chemistry , a disulfide bond ( Br.E . disulphide bond ) is a covalent bond , usually  निकला by  the coupling of two thiol groups .
The linkage is also called  an ss-bond or disulfide  bridge .
The overall  कनेक्टिविटी is इसलिए r-s-s-r  .
The terminology is  widely प्रयुक्त in biochemistry  .
In formal terms , the connection is a persulfide , in analogy to its congener , peroxide ( R-O-O-R ) , but this terminology  is अस्पष्ट और is no longer प्रयुक्त ( मगर in सन्दर्भ to  R-S-S-H or H-S-S-H compounds ) .
Formal depiction of disulfide bond formation as an  ऑक्सीकरण  .
Westminster Abbey is used for the  राजतिलक  of British monarchs
Religion in the United Kingdom and in the countries that preceded it , has been dominated , for over 1,400 years , by  विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of  Christianity .
According to some surveys , a majority of  नागरिकों स्टिल पहचानो साथ christianity , हालांकि नियमित गिरिजाघर  attendance has fallen dramatically since the middle of the 20th century , and immigration and demographic change have contributed to the growth of other faiths .
Religious affiliations of UK  नागरिकों हैं अंकित by नियमित सर्वेक्षण , the चार प्रमुख ones  being the UK Census , the Labour Force Survey , the British Social Attitudes survey and the European Social Survey .
According to the 2001 UK census , Christianity is the major religion , followed by Islam ,  हिंदुत्व , sikhism , judaism और  Buddhism in terms of number of adherents .
This , and the relatively large number of individuals with nominal or no religious affiliations has led commentators to variously describe the United Kingdom as a  multi-faith , secularised , or post-christian  society .
The United Kingdom was formed by the union of previously independent countries from 1707 , and consequently most of the largest religious groups do not  have uk-wide organisational  structures .
While some groups have separate structures for the individual countries  of the संयुक्त किंगडम , अन्य may have a सिंगल ढांचा covering इंग्लैण्ड और  Wales or Great Britain .
Similarly ,  due to the अपेक्षाकृत हाल सृष्टि  of Northern Ireland in 1921 , most major religious groups in Northern Ireland are organised on an all-Ireland basis .
The 1967 Newark riots were a major civil disturbance that occurred in the city of Newark , New Jersey between  जुलाई 12 और जुलाई 17 , 1967  .
The six  दिनों of rioting , लूटने  , and destruction left 26 dead and hundreds injured .
In United States college athletics , redshirt is a  विलंब or बर्खास्तगी of an खिलाड़ी 's भागीदारी  in order to lengthen his or her period of eligibility .
Typically , a student 's athletic eligibility in a given sport is four seasons , a  क्रमांक  derived from the four years of academic classes that are normally required to obtain a bachelor 's degree at an American college or university .
However , a student athlete may be offered  the अवसर to redshirt  for up to two years , which allows the athlete to spread those four years of eligibility over five , or sometimes six years .
In a redshirt year , a student athlete may attend classes at the college or university ,  अभ्यास साथ an एथलेटिक टोली  , and dress for play but he or she may not compete during the game .
Using this mechanism , a student athlete has up to  पाँच अकादमिक सालो to उपयोग  the four years of eligibility , thus becoming a fifth-year senior .
The term is used  as a क्रिया ,  noun , and adjective .
For example , a coach  may चुनें to redshirt a खिलाड़ी जो is तब  referred to as a redshirt freshman or simply a redshirt .
The opposite of this is a `` true  freshman . ''
World War I ( WWI ) was a  वैश्विक युद्ध केंद्रित in यूरोपीय कि began on  28 July 1914 and lasted until 11 November 1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the  ग्रेट युद्ध इससे इसके occurrence जबतक the प्रारंभ of संसार  War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the Triple Entente of the United Kingdom , France and Russia )  और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally the ट्रिपल गठबंधन of जर्मनी , austria-hungary और इटली ; लकिन , as austria–hungary था लिया the अप्रिय  against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and  the संयुक्त राज्य joined the allies , और the उस्मानी साम्राज्य और बुल्गारिया  the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more than 70 million military personnel , including 60  लाख europeans ,  were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed ,  largely क्युकी of technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases in the lethality  of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political  परिवर्तन , ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक  of the nations involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in the foreign policies of the great  शक्तियां of यूरोपीय  .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28 June 1914 by Yugoslav nationalist Gavrilo Princip in Sarajevo triggered a diplomatic crisis when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an  ultimatum to the किंगडम  of Serbia .
Several alliances formed over the previous decades  यहूद invoked  .
Within weeks , the major  शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध  and , via their colonies , the conflict soon spread around the world .
on 28 जुलाई , the austro-hungarians  fired the first shots of the war as preparation for the invasion of Serbia .
While the Russians mobilised ,  the germans invaded न्यूट्रल बेल्जियम और ध्वज  on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled  into a स्थिर बैटल of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त  line that changed little until 1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the  रूसी फौज थी कामयाब विरूद्ध  the Austro-Hungarians , but was stopped in its invasion of East Prussia by the Germans .
In  नवम्बर  the Ottoman Empire joined the war , opening up fronts in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to  युद्ध in 1915 और  Romania in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar  's सरकारी collapsed in कूच 1917 और a  subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the western front , the Allies drove back the Germans in a series of successful  offensives और अमरीकी शक्तियां began प्रवेश  the trenches .
Germany , which had its own trouble with revolutionaries , agreed to  an armistice on 11 नवम्बर 1918  .
The  युद्ध ended in  victory for the Allies .
Events on the home fronts were as tumultuous as on the battle fronts , as the participants tried to mobilize their  जनशक्ति और आर्थिक संसाधन  to fight a total war .
By the end of the war , four major imperial  powers—the जर्मनी , रूसी ,  Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two lost a great  राशि of territory , जबकि the  latter two were dismantled entirely .
the मैप of  central Europe was redrawn into several smaller states .
The League of  राष्ट्र थी formed in the आशा  of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions of Germany 's defeat and problems with the Treaty of  versailles हैं सहमत to be कारकों contributing to संसार  War II .
Map of countries that  घोषित themselves to be समाजवादी राज्य अंतर्गत the marxist–leninist  or Maoist definition - that is to say , `` Communist states '' - between 1979 and 1983 .
This period  चिह्नित the महानतम  territorial extent of Communist states .
A  कम्युनिस्ट राज्य is a  state where the means of production are collectively owned by the society .
It has a form of government characterized by single-party rule or dominant-party rule of a communist party ( referred as Dictatorship of the Proletariat by its  proponents ) और a professed निष्ठा to a leninist or marxist–leninist  ideology as the guiding principle of the state .
Technically , `` communist state '' is a contradictio in terminis as a communist society as defined by  दोनो माक्र्सवादी और anarcho-communists is in principle  stateless .
From this perspective , the term Marxist-Leninist state is  अधिक उचित  .
Historically , a `` communist state ''  referred to a प्रणाली जहाँ पब्लिक स्वामित्व of सब or सबसे अर्थात् of उत्पादन by the कम्युनिस्ट  party -run state is deemed necessary to further the interests of the working class ; today , a communist state can also , for instance , refer to contemporary China and Vietnam , where a Communist Party-run state exists alongside a mixed economy .
According to Marxist–Leninists , the state is a tool in the hands of the ruling  क्लास , जिससे in a समाजवादी समाज  is the working class , so a socialist state is , according to Leninists , a state of the working class .
In practice , communist states do not actually refer to  themselves as ऐसे  .
They do this not to disguise the fact that the ruling party is communist , but  बल्कि क्युकी वे do नहीं consider themselves  to be a communist society at present .
Instead , they constitutionally  पहचानो themselves  as socialist states or workers ' states .
The primary goal of these  राज्य , जिससे भी explains उनके आधिकारिक नाम , is to मार्गदर्शिका उनके संबंधित  countries in the process of building socialism , ultimately leading to communism .
Communist states may have several legal political parties , but the  कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी is प्रायः granted a खास  or dominant role in government , often by statute or under the constitution .
Consequently , the institutions of the state and of the communist party become intimately entwined , such as in the  विकास of समानांतर संस्थानों  .
In the 20th  सदी , सबसे कम्युनिस्ट  states adopted planned economies .
However , there were exceptions : The Soviet Union during  the 1920s और लेट 1980s और यूगोस्लाविया बाद संसार युद्ध ii अनुमत  limited markets and a degree of worker self-management , while China , Vietnam and Laos introduced far-reaching market reforms after the 1980s .
In the 21st century , China and Vietnam have  अनुमत a मिश्रित अर्थव्यवस्था  to develop .
The fundamental concepts of communist  राज्य प्रायः diverge इससे  the original socio-economic ideologies from which they develop .
As a result , many adherents of these ideologies often oppose the political systems commonly  संबद्ध साथ ये राज्य  .
For example , dissenting communists such as Trotskyists were often opposed to the communist states of the 20th century , claiming either that they had nothing to do with `` real '' communism or that the ideology of  ऐसे राज्य था पहुँचे a पाइंट of अटल भ्रष्टाचार  .
Michael Fred Phelps II ( born June 30 , 1985 ) is a retired American swimmer  और the सबसे सजा ओलंपियन of सब समय ,  with a total of 22 medals .
Phelps also holds  the all-time रिकॉर्ड लिये ओलम्पिक सुनहरा medals ( 18 , दोगुना the दूसरी उच्चतम  record holders ) , Olympic gold medals in individual events ( 11 ) , and Olympic medals in individual events for a male ( 13 ) .
In winning eight gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Games , Phelps took the record  लिये the सबसे first-place finishes at कोई सिंगल  Olympic Games .
Five of those victories were in individual events , tying the  सिंगल खेल रिकार्ड  .
In the 2012 Summer Olympics in London , Phelps won four golds and two silver medals , making him  the सबसे कामयाब खिलाड़ी of the खेल लिये  the third Olympics in a row .
Phelps is the long course world recordholder in the 100-meter butterfly , 200-meter butterfly and 400-meter individual medley as well as  the पूर्व long कोर्स संसार recordholder in the 200-meter  freestyle and 200-meter individual medley .
He has won a total of 71 medals in major international long-course competition , 57 gold , 11 silver , and three bronze spanning the Olympics , the World ,  और the पण प्रशांत championships  .
Phelps 's international titles and record-breaking performances have earned him the World Swimmer of the Year Award seven times and  अमरीकी तैराक of  the Year Award nine times as well as the FINA Swimmer of the Year Award in 2012 .
His  unprecedented ओलम्पिक कामयाबी in 2008 अर्जित  Phelps Sports Illustrated magazine 's Sportsman of the Year award .
After the 2008 Summer Olympics , Phelps started the Michael Phelps Foundation , which  focuses on growing the खेल of तैराकी और promoting  healthier lifestyles .
He   expects to do further work with his foundation after the 2012 Olympics , which he has said will be his last .
Lenovo Group Limited ( ) is a Chinese multinational computer hardware and electronics company with its headquarters in Beijing , China and Morrisville , North Carolina and its  पंजीकृत दफ्तर in हांग काँग , चीन  .
Its products include personal  कंप्यूटर , टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर , मोबाईल फोन  , workstations , servers , electronic storage devices , IT management software and smart televisions .
लेनोवो is the संसार  's second-largest PC vendor by 2012 unit sales .
it बाज़ार the थिंकपैड लकीर  of notebook computers and the ThinkCentre line of desktops .
Lenovo has operations  in  more than 60 countries and sells its products in around 160 countries .
Lenovo was founded in  बीजिंग in 1984  and incorporated in Hong Kong in 1988 under its previous name , Legend .
Lenovo is listed on the Hong Kong Stock  एक्सचेंज और is a constituent of the हैंग  Seng China-Affiliated Corporations Index .
Slug is a common name for an  जाहिर shell-less  terrestrial gastropod mollusk .
the शब्द `` स्लग '' is भी प्रायः प्रयुक्त  as part of the common name of any gastropod mollusc that has no shell , has a very reduced shell , or has only a small internal shell .
( This is in contrast to the common name `` snail `` , which is applied to gastropods that have a coiled shell that is  विशाल पर्याप्त कि the नरम भाग of the  animal can retract fully into it . )
Slugs exist on land and in  the समुद्र , और वहीँ is भी एक genus of  freshwater slugs , Acochlidium .
The unadorned word `` slug '' is however applied primarily to land slugs , whereas slugs from the sea or from freshwater are usually referred to as `` sea  slugs `` और `` freshwater  slugs '' .
Land gastropods with a shell that is not quite vestigial , but is too small to retract  into ( जैसे अनेक in the परिवार urocyclidae ) , हैं  known as semislugs .
The various taxonomic families of  slugs रूप भाग of अनेक काफी  different evolutionary lineages which also include snails .
Thus ,  लिये उदाहरण , the विभिन्न परिवारों of जमीन slugs हैं नहीं बहुत closely  related to one another , despite a superficial similarity in the overall body form .
The shell-less condition has  arisen अनेक टाइम्स independently दौरान  the evolutionary past , and thus the category `` slug '' is emphatically a polyphyletic one .
Slugs , like all other gastropods , undergo torsion ( a 180°  टेढ़ी of the आतंरिक  organs ) during development .
Internally , slug anatomy clearly shows the effects of this rotation , but externally the bodies of  जमीन slugs appear to be अधिक or कम सममित , मगर लिये the positioning  of the pneumostome , which is on one side of the animal , normally the right hand side .
The soft , slimy bodies of slugs are prone to desiccation , so land-living slugs are confined to moist environments and must  रिट्रीट to नम  hiding places when the weather is dry .
The subsequent  सूचना in इस आलेख  applies to land slugs .
is a Latin word  कि अर्थात् `` यूँ ''  or , in writing , `` it was thus in the source material '' .
sic may भी  refer to:
Sic , Cluj , a  कम्यून  in Romania
SIC ,  the क्षेत्रीय  code for Sicily
Sic ( noise  कलाकार ) , styled as [ sic  ] , stage name of Jennifer Morris , a Canadian noise artist
Sic ( band ) is a modern Hardcore/Thrash  मेटल बैंड इससे torshavn , the पूंजी  of the Faroe Islands
`` ( sic ) '' , a  सोंग by अमरीकी बैंड slipknot  on the album Slipknot
sic ,  the initial of Marco Simoncelli .
SIC as an  एक्रोनिम may  stand for:
sic , सिलिकॉन कार्बाइड  , a semiconducting material , also used to make metalworking tools
SIC ( cyclecar ) (  società इटालियाना  Cyclecars )
Standard Industrial Classification , a  20th-century u.S. प्रणाली  for classifying industries
अंतरराष्ट्रीय मानक औद्योगिक वर्गीकरण  a UN system for economic activities
शेटलैंड आइलैंड्स  Council
the स्विस  Interbank Clearing system
San Isidro Club , an  अर्जेंटाइन रग्बी संघ  club
Standing Interpretation Committee , a committee  समर्पित to the निर्वचन  of international accounting standards IFRS
Schwarz information  मानदंड in the  field of statistics
second-in-command  in the field of aviation
Sistema  interconectado  Central power grid in Chile
Sociedade  independente de comunicação  ( SIC ) , a television channel in Portugal
Sea Isle City ,  नई जर्सी  , a coastal town in the United States
Segmented  पूर्णांक काउंटर  mode , a mode of operation in cryptography
Sepang International Circuit , a high-end  racetrack कि होस्ट the  Malaysian round of Formula 1
Shanghai International Circuit , a motor  रेसिंग स्थान in शंघाई  , China
सरलीकृत निर्देशात्मक  computer , a hypothetical computer used in systems programming
SIC ( Sons  idées couleurs ) , an जल्दी  twentieth-century art magazine produced by French author Pierre Albert-Birot
Southeastern Illinois College , a two year Junior College in  harrisburg , इलिनोइस ,  United States
Specific inductive capacity , abbreviated to SIC ,  जिससे is अधिक commonly ज्ञात as the सापेक्ष विद्युतशीलता  or the dielectric constant
St  ignatius ' कॉलेज , riverview  , a Jesuit school in Sydney , Australia
Imperial Standard of  नेपोलियन  I
Napoleon Bonaparte ( ,  ;  15 August 1769 – 5 May 1821 ) was a French military and political leader who rose to prominence during the latter stages of the French Revolution and its associated wars in Europe .
As Napoleon I , he was  सम्राट  of the French from 1804 to 1815 .
His legal reform , the Napoleonic Code , has been a major influence on many civil law jurisdictions worldwide , but he is best remembered for his role in  the युद्धों led विरूद्ध फ़्रांस by a श्रेणी  of coalitions , the so-called Napoleonic Wars .
He established hegemony over most of continental Europe and sought to spread the ideals of the French Revolution , while consolidating an imperial monarchy which  लौटी पहलुओं  of the deposed Ancien Régime .
Due to his success in these wars , often against numerically superior enemies , he is generally regarded as one of the greatest military  कमांडरों of सब समय , और  his campaigns are studied at military academies worldwide .
Napoleon was born at Ajaccio in Corsica in a family of noble  इतालवी  ancestry which had settled Corsica in the 16th century .
He trained as an artillery  अधिकारी in मेनलैंड  France .
He rose to prominence under the French  पहला गणतंत्र और led कामयाब  campaigns against the First and Second Coalitions arrayed against France .
He  led a कामयाब  invasion of the Italian peninsula .
In 1799 , he  मंचन a तख्तापलट d'état और  installed himself as First Consul ; five years later the French Senate proclaimed him emperor , following a plebiscite in his favour .
In the first decade of the 19th century , the French Empire under Napoleon engaged in a series of  conflicts—the  Napoleonic Wars —that involved every major European power .
After a streak of victories , France secured a dominant position in continental Europe , and Napoleon maintained the French sphere of influence through the formation of extensive alliances and the appointment of  मित्रों और परिवार सदस्यों to नियम  other European countries as French client states .
The Peninsular War and 1812 French invasion of Russia marked  turning अंक in  Napoleon 's fortunes .
His Grande Armée was badly damaged in  the अभियान  and never fully recovered .
In  1813 , the छठे गठबन्धन  defeated his forces at Leipzig ; the following year the Coalition invaded France , forced Napoleon to abdicate and exiled him to the island of Elba .
Less than a year later , he escaped Elba and returned to power ,  लकिन थी पराजित at the बैटल of वाटरलू  in June 1815 .
Napoleon spent the last six years of his life in  कारावास by the अंग्रेजों on the  island of Saint Helena .
An autopsy concluded he died of stomach cancer ,  लकिन वहीँ रै महरूम  some debate about the cause of his death , as some scholars have speculated that he was a victim of arsenic poisoning .
This is a chronological listing of the United States Senators from  पेन्सिलवेनिया  .
United States Senators are popularly  निर्वाचित , लिये a six-year  term , beginning January 3 .
चुनावों हैं  held the first Tuesday after November 1 .
Before 1914 , they were chosen by the Pennsylvania  सामान्य सभा  , and before 1935 , their terms began March 4 .
The South Africa national rugby union  टोली ( ज्ञात as the springboks  ) represents South Africa in rugby union .
They compete in the annual Rugby Championship , along with southern-hemisphere  counterparts अर्जेंटीना , ऑस्ट्रेलिया  and New Zealand .
They have won this championship on three  अवसरों in सोलह  years .
They are currently ranked second in the world by the International Rugby   Board , and were named 2008 World Team of the Year at the Laureus World Sports Awards .
Although South Africa was instrumental in the creation of the  रग्बी संसार कप प्रतियोगिता , the springboks किया  not compete in the first two World Cups in 1987 and 1991 because of anti-apartheid sporting boycotts of South Africa .
The team made its World Cup debut in 1995 ,  जब  the newly democratic South Africa hosted the tournament .
The Springboks then defeated the All Blacks 15–12 in the final , which  is now remembered as one  of the greatest moments in South Africa 's sporting history , and a watershed moment in the post-Apartheid nation-building process .
South Africa regained their title as champions 12 years later , when they  पराजित इंग्लैण्ड 15–6 in the 2007 फाइनल  .
As a result of the 2007 World Cup  टूर्नामेंट the springboks  were promoted to first place in the IRB World Rankings , a position they held until July the following year when New Zealand regained the top spot .
The  springboks खेल in ग्रीन और सुनहरा jerseys  , and their emblems are the Springbok and the Protea .
The side has been playing international rugby since 1891 , when a British Isles  पक्ष toured the स्वदेश  , playing South Africa in their first Test on 30 July .
South  अफ़्रीकी थी coached by जेक श्वेत , जो led the boks  to the 2007 World Cup title , announcing his resignation effectively from the end of 2007 .
His replacement 's (  पीटर de villiers  ) contract expired in 2011 , following a 11–9 defeat to Australia in the Rugby World Cup quarter-final , who then stated he would not be signing a new deal .
The previous captain was John Smit , who before he retired in 2011  निभाई वेश्या लिये सबसे of उसके करियर , हालांकि  he has also been a prop , mainly in 2008 and 2009 .
Due to Smit being  अनुपलब्ध लिये the नवम्बर 2010 परीक्षण  after surgery , lock Victor Matfield took Smit 's place as captain for that tour .
The current captain is  जां de villiers  .
The Battle of  gettysburg ( , साथ an ध्वनि ) , थी लड़ा  July 1–3 , 1863 , in and around the town of Gettysburg , Pennsylvania .
It was the battle with the largest number of casualties in the  अमरीकी सिविल युद्ध और is  often described as the war 's turning point .
Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade 's Army of the Potomac defeated attacks by Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee  's फौज of उत्तरी वर्जिनिया  , ending Lee 's invasion of the North .
After his success at Chancellorsville in  वर्जिनिया in may 1863 , ली led उसके फौज through the shenandoah घाटी to  begin his second invasion of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign .
With his army in high spirits , Lee intended to shift the focus of the summer campaign from war-ravaged northern Virginia and hoped to influence Northern  राजनेता to दे up उनके अभियोजन of the युद्ध by penetrating as  far as Harrisburg , Pennsylvania , or even Philadelphia .
Prodded by President  अब्राहम lincoln , maj.  Gen. Joseph Hooker moved his army in pursuit , but was relieved just three days before the battle and replaced by Meade .
Elements of the two armies  initially collided at gettysburg on जुलाई  1 , 1863 , as Lee urgently concentrated his forces there , his objective being to engage the Union army and destroy it .
Low ridges to the northwest of  कस्बा यहूद defended initially by a संघ प्यादे प्रभाग  under Brig . Gen. John Buford , and soon reinforced with two corps of Union infantry .
however , दो विशाल confederate corps फहरा  them from the northwest and north , collapsing the hastily developed Union lines , sending the defenders retreating through the streets of town to the hills just to the south .
On the second day of battle ,  सबसे of दोनो सेना  had assembled .
The  संघ लकीर थी रखी  out in a defensive formation resembling a fishhook .
In the late afternoon of July 2 , Lee launched a heavy assault on the Union left flank , and fierce fighting  raged at छोटी गोलाकार शीर्ष , the wheatfield , शैतान  's Den , and the Peach Orchard .
On the Union right ,  demonstrations escalated into full-scale  assaults on Culp 's Hill and Cemetery Hill .
All across the battlefield , despite  significant नुकसान , the संघ defenders  held their lines .
On the third day of battle , July 3 , fighting resumed on Culp 's Hill , and cavalry battles raged to the east and south , but the main event was  a नाटकीय  infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge , known as Pickett 's Charge .
The charge was repulsed by Union rifle  और तोपखाने  fire , at great losses to the Confederate army .
Lee led  उसके फौज on a  torturous retreat back to Virginia .
Between 46,000 and 51,000  सैनिको इससे दोनो  armies were casualties in the three-day battle .
That November , President Lincoln used  the समर्पण रस्म लिये  the Gettysburg National Cemetery to honor the fallen Union soldiers and redefine the purpose of the war in his historic Gettysburg Address .
An academic discipline , or field of study , is a  शाखा of ज्ञान कि is  taught and researched at the college or university level .
Disciplines are defined ( in part ) , and recognized by the academic journals in which research is published , and the learned  समाजों और अकादमिक विभाग or faculties  to which their practitioners belong .
However , there exists no formal criteria for when  शैक्षणिक कार्यक्रम और scholarly जर्नल्स रूप  an academic discipline .
A huge difference exists between , on the one hand , well established disciplines that exist in almost all universities all over the world , have a long history , and have a well established set of journals and conferences , and , on the other hand , suggestions for  नई फ़ील्ड समर्थित तभी by few विश्वविद्यालयों और publications  .
Fields of study usually have several sub-disciplines or branches , and the distinguishing lines  between ये हैं प्रायः दोनो मनमानी  and ambiguous .
PHP is a server-side scripting language designed for web  विकास लकिन भी प्रयुक्त as a general-purpose  programming language .
PHP is now installed on more  than 244 लाख वेबसाइटों  and 2.1 million web servers .
Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1995 , the reference  क्रियान्वयन of पीएचपी is अभी उत्पादित by the पीएचपी समूह  .
While PHP originally stood for Personal Home Page , it now stands for  पीएचपी : हाइपरटेक्स्ट preprocessor , a  recursive acronym .
PHP code is interpreted by a web server with a PHP processor module which generates the resulting web page : PHP commands  can be अंतःस्थापित सीधे into an एचटीएमएल सोर्स दस्तावेज़ बल्कि than कॉलिंग  an external file to process data .
It has also evolved to include a command-line interface  काबिलियत और can be प्रयुक्त in स्टैंडअलोन आलेखीय  applications .
PHP is free software released under the PHP License , which is  असंगत साथ  the GNU General Public License ( GPL ) due to restrictions on the usage of the term PHP .
PHP can be deployed on most web  सर्वर और भी  as a standalone shell on almost every operating system and platform , free of charge .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack ''  कैनेडी ( may 29 , 1917 – नवम्बर 22 , 1963 ) , प्रायः referred  to by his initials JFK , was the 35th President of the United States , serving from 1961 until his death in 1963 .
After military service as  कमांडर of the मोटर torpedo नौकाएँ pt-109 और pt-59  during World War II in the South Pacific , Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
Thereafter , he served in  the u.S. सीनेट इससे  1953 until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice President and  रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी रिचर्ड  Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
at 43 सालो of आयु , he is the  youngest to have been elected to the office , the second-youngest President ( after Theodore Roosevelt ) , and the first person born in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy is the only non- Protestant  अध्यक्ष , और is the तभी अध्यक्ष to have  won a Pulitzer Prize .
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs  आक्रमण , the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट , the भवन of the बर्लिन वॉल , the  Space Race , the African-American Civil Rights Movement , and early stages of the Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy increased the number of military advisers , special operation forces , and  helicopters in an प्रयत्न to कोर the स्प्रेड of साम्यवादी in दक्षिण ईस्ट  Asia .
The Kennedy  प्रशासन अपनाया the नीति of the रणनीतिक हैमलेट  Program which was implemented by the South Vietnamese government .
It involved certain forced relocation , village internment , and segregation of  ग्रामीण दक्षिण वियतनामी इससे the उत्तरी और  southern communist insurgents .
Kennedy was assassinated on  नवम्बर 22 , 1963  in Dallas , Texas .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged  साथ the अपराधों , लकिन he थी शॉट और मारे by जोकर  Ruby two days later , before a trial could take place .
The FBI and the Warren Commission  officially concluded  that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However , the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA  ) concluded कि those investigations यहूद  flawed and that Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
however , एबीसी न्यूज in उनके छानबीन , the  Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy , confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's  विवादास्पद विभाग of  Defense TFX fighter bomber program led to a Congressional investigation that lasted from 1963 to 1970 .
Since the  1960s सूचना  concerning Kennedy 's private life has come to light .
Details of Kennedy 's health problems in which he struggled have become better known ,  विशेषकर चूंकि the 1990s  .
हालांकि initially रखा  secret from the general public , reports of Kennedy 's philandering have garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks  अत्यधिक in पब्लिक राय  ratings of U.S. presidents .
`` Stand by Me '' is a song originally performed by Ben E. King  और लिखा by किंग , जेरी leiber , और माइक  Stoller , inspired by the spiritual `` Lord Stand by Me , '' plus two lines rooted in Psalms 46:2–3 .
वहीँ have  been over 400 recorded versions of the song .
A political cartoon from an 1894 Puck magazine by illustrator S.D . Ehrhart , shows a farm  स्त्री labeled `` लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी '' sheltering इससे a बवंडर  of political change .
A metaphor is a figure of speech that  describes a विषय by asserting कि it is , on कुछ  point of comparison , the same as another otherwise unrelated object .
रूपक  is a type of analogy and is closely related to other rhetorical figures of speech that achieve their effects via association , comparison or resemblance including allegory , hyperbole , and simile .
In simpler terms , a metaphor  compares दो वस्तुएँ or बाते बगैर  using the words `` like '' or `` as '' .
One of the most prominent examples of a metaphor in English literature is the All the world 's a stage  monologue इससे  As You Like It :
All the  संसार  's a stage,
And all the men  और महिलाओं merely  players ;
वे have उनके  exits and their entrances ; — William Shakespeare , As You Like It , 2/7
This quote is a metaphor because  the संसार is  not literally a stage .
By figuratively asserting that the world is a stage , Shakespeare uses the points of comparison between the world and  a स्टेज to convey an समझना परिचय the यांत्रिकी  of the world and the lives of the people within it .
Mount Fuji , from the Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji , color woodcut  by katsushika hokusai
Rembrandt van Rijn , Self-portrait ,  etching  , c.1630
Francisco Goya , There  is no एक to सहायता उन्हें , आपदाओं  of War series , aquatint c.1810
Felix  vallotton ,  La raison probante ( The Cogent Reason ) , woodcut from the series Intimités , 1898
Printmaking is the process of making artworks by printing ,  सामान्यतः on पेपर  .
Printmaking normally covers only the process of creating prints with an element of originality , rather than just being a  फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक जनन  of a painting .
Except in  the मामला of monotyping , the प्रक्रम is सक्षम  of producing multiples of the same piece , which is called a print .
Each print produced is not  माना a ``  copy '' but rather is considered an `` original '' .
This is because typically each print varies to an extent due to variables intrinsic to the printmaking process , and also because the imagery of a print is typically not simply a reproduction of another work  लकिन बल्कि is प्रायः a अद्वितीय चित्र designed इससे the प्रारंभ to be expressed in a particular  printmaking technique .
A print  may be ज्ञात  as an impression .
Printmaking ( other than monotyping ) is not chosen only for its ability to produce multiple impressions , but rather  लिये the अद्वितीय qualities कि प्रत्येक of the printmaking प्रक्रियाओं lends  itself to .
prints हैं निर्मित by transferring  ink from a matrix or through a prepared screen to a sheet of paper or other material .
Common types of matrices include : metal plates , usually copper or zinc , or polymer plates for engraving or etching ; stone , aluminum , or polymer for lithography ;  ब्लॉक of लकडी लिये woodcuts और लकडी engravings  ; and linoleum for linocuts .
Screens made of silk or synthetic fabrics are used for the  screenprinting प्रक्रम  .
Other types of matrix substrates and related  प्रक्रियाओं हैं  discussed below .
Multiple impressions printed from the same matrix form  an संस्करण  .
Since the late 19th century , artists have generally signed individual impressions  इससे an संस्करण और प्रायः क्रमांक the  impressions to form a limited edition .
Prints may also be printed in  किताब रूप , ऐसे as  illustrated books or artist 's books .
Il Divo is an English multinational operatic pop vocal group created by music  मैनेजर , कार्यपालिका , और वास्तविकता  TV star Simon Cowell .
Formed in the  संयुक्त किंगडम , वे  are also signed to Cowell 's record label , Syco Music .
il divo is a समूह  of four male singers : French pop singer Sébastien Izambard , Spanish baritone Carlos Marín , American tenor David Miller , and Swiss tenor Urs Bühler .
To date , they   have sold more than 26 million albums worldwide .
Su-15 , one of the principal Soviet Air Defence interceptors in the  1970s और  1980s
An interceptor aircraft ( or simply interceptor ) is a type of fighter aircraft designed specifically to prevent missions of enemy aircraft , particularly  बमवर्षक और reconnaissance वायुयान ,  and destroy them , relying usually on great speed and powerful armament .
Being used since the First World War , after the late 1960s , interceptors became less  महत्वपूर्ण due to shifting इससे बमवर्षक to इंटरकांटिनेंटल बैलिस्टिक  missiles ( ICBMs ) for nuclear warfare .
A Vietnamese American (  ) is an अमरीकी  of Vietnamese descent .
They make up about half of all  विदेशी वियतनामी ( người việt hải ngoại  ) and are the fourth-largest Asian American group .
Mass Vietnamese immigration to the United States started after  1975 , बाद the समाप्त of  the Vietnam War .
Early immigrants were refugee boat people fleeing  persecution or गरीबी .
Forced to flee from their homeland and often thrust into poor urban neighborhoods ,  ये newcomers have nevertheless प्रबंधित to स्थापित दमदार  communities in a short amount of time .
More than sixty percent of Vietnamese Americans reside in the states of California  , टेक्सास , वॉशिंगटन , फ्लोरिडा  , and Virginia .
Front page of the U.S. Armed Forces  समाचारपत्र ,  Stars and Stripes , 2 May 1945
Adolf Hitler committed suicide by  gunshot on 30 अप्रैल 1945 in उसके führerbunker  in Berlin .
His wife Eva ( née Braun ) committed suicide with  उसे by ingesting साइनाइड  .
That afternoon , in accordance with Hitler 's prior instructions , their remains were carried up the stairs  through the बंकर 's आपात निकास , doused in पेट्रोल और नियत alight in  the Reich Chancellery garden outside the bunker .
The Soviet archives record that their burnt  remains यहूद बरामद  and interred in successive locations until 1970 when they were again exhumed , cremated and the ashes scattered .
Accounts differ as to the  कारण of मौत ; एक कि he died  by poison only and another that he died by a self-inflicted gunshot , while biting down on a cyanide capsule .
Contemporary historians have rejected these accounts as being either Soviet  प्रचार or an attempted सुलह in अनुक्रम to  reconcile the different conclusions .
One eye-witness  अंकित कि the देह  showed signs of having been shot through the mouth , but this has been proven unlikely .
There is  भी विवाद  regarding the authenticity of skull and jaw fragments which were recovered .
In 2009 , DNA tests were performed on a skull Soviet  officials था  long believed to be Hitler 's .
The  परीक्षण नाज़िल कि the कपाल  was actually that of a woman less than 40 years old .
Location  of मिसौरी
The alcohol  कानून of मिसौरी  are among the least restrictive and most lax and permissive in the United States .
Missouri is known throughout the Midwest for its largely  laissez-faire दृष्टिकोण to दारू विनियमन , in शार्प कंट्रास्ट to the बहुत सख्त  alcohol laws of some of its neighbors , like Kansas and Oklahoma .
Necrotizing fasciitis ( or ) or NF , commonly known as flesh-eating disease or flesh-eating bacteria syndrome , is  a विरल संक्रमण of the deeper परतों  of skin and subcutaneous tissues , easily spreading across the fascial plane within the subcutaneous tissue .
Necrotizing fasciitis is  जल्दी progressing , having वृहद  risk of developing in the immunocompromised due to conditions like diabetes , cancer , etc .
It is a severe disease of sudden onset and is usually treated  तत्काल साथ ऊँची doses of intravenous  antibiotics .
Type I describes a polymicrobial  संक्रमण , whereas प्रकार ii describes  a monomicrobial infection .
Many types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis ( e.g. , Group A streptococcus ( Streptococcus pyogenes ) , Staphylococcus  aureus , clostridium perfringens , bacteroides fragilis  , Aeromonas hydrophila ) .
Such infections are more likely to occur in people with compromised immune   systems .
Historically , Group A  streptococcus बना  up most cases of Type II infections .
However , since as early as 2001 , another serious form of monomicrobial necrotizing fasciitis has been observed with increasing  आवृत्ति , caused by methicillin-resistant  Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) .
Some published case reports have implied a possible link between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and NF , though the evidence of the link was said to be weak because of a small  क्रमांक  of case patients and it was unclear whether the drugs just masked the symptoms of a secondary infection or were a cause per se .
संसार युद्ध ii ( wwii or ww2 ) , भी ज्ञात  as the Second World War , was a global war that lasted from 1939 to 1945 .
It involved the vast majority of the world 's nations —including all  of the ग्रेट शक्तियां —eventually  forming two opposing military alliances : the Allies and the Axis .
It was the most  फैली युद्ध in इतिहास , साथ अधिक than 100 लाख लोगों  serving in military units from over 30 different countries .
In a state of `` total war `` , the major  भागीदार लगाई उनके संपूर्ण आर्थिक , औद्योगिक , और वैज्ञानिक सामर्थ्य at the सेवा of the युद्ध  effort , erasing the distinction between civilian and military resources .
Marked by mass deaths of civilians , including the Holocaust and the only use of nuclear weapons  in warfare , it resulted in 50 लाख  to over 75 million fatalities .
These  मौतों मेक संसार युद्ध  II by far the deadliest conflict in human history .
The Empire of Japan aimed to dominate East Asia and was  already at युद्ध साथ the गणतंत्र of चीन in 1937 , लकिन the संसार युद्ध is generally  said to have begun on 1 September 1939 with the invasion of Poland by Germany and subsequent declarations of war on Germany by France and Britain .
From late 1939 to early 1941 , in a series of campaigns and treaties ,  जर्मनी formed the अक्ष गठबंधन साथ इटली , conquering or subduing  much of continental Europe .
Following  the molotov–ribbentrop  Pact , Germany and the Soviet Union partitioned and annexed territories between themselves of their European neighbours , including Poland .
The United Kingdom and the other members of the  अंग्रेजों राष्ट्रमंडल यहूद the तभी प्रमुख  Allied forces continuing the fight against the Axis , with battles taking place in North Africa as well as the long-running Battle of the Atlantic .
In June 1941 , the European Axis launched an invasion of the Soviet Union , giving a start to the largest land theatre of war in history , which tied down the major part of the Axis '  सैन्य शक्तियां लिये the बाकी of the युद्ध  .
In December 1941 , Japan joined the Axis ,  attacked the संयुक्त राज्य और यूरोपीय territories in the प्रशांत  Ocean , and quickly conquered much of the Western Pacific .
The Axis advance was stopped in 1942 , after Japan lost a series of naval battles and European Axis troops were defeated in  उत्तर अफ़्रीकी और , decisively , at  Stalingrad .
In 1943 , with a series of German defeats in Eastern Europe , the  अलाइड आक्रमण of इटली , और अमरीकी victories in  the Pacific , the Axis lost the initiative and undertook strategic retreat on all fronts .
In 1944 , the Western Allies invaded France , while the Soviet Union  regained सब of इसके territorial  losses and invaded Germany and its allies .
During 1944 and 1945 the  संयुक्त राज्य पराजित the  Japanese Navy and captured key Western Pacific islands .
The war in Europe ended with the  कैप्चर of बर्लिन  by Soviet and Polish troops and the subsequent German unconditional surrender on 8 May 1945 .
Following the Potsdam Declaration by the Allies on 26 July 1945 , the United States  dropped परमाणु बम  on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima on 6 August , and Nagasaki on 9 August .
With an invasion of the Japanese archipelago imminent , and the Soviet Union having declared war on  जापानी by आक्रमणकारी मंचूरिया , जापानी surrendered  on 15 August 1945 , ending the war in Asia and cementing the total victory of the Allies over the Axis .
World War II altered the  राजनैतिक संरेखण और  social structure of the world .
The United Nations ( UN ) was established to foster international  सहयोग और prevent भविष्य विरोध  .
The great powers that were  the victors of the war—the संयुक्त राज्य , the सोवियत संघ  , China , the United Kingdom , and France—became the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council .
The Soviet Union and the United States emerged as  प्रतिद्वंद्वी superpowers , सेटिंग  the stage for the Cold War , which lasted for the next 46 years .
Meanwhile , the influence of  यूरोपीय ग्रेट शक्तियां प्रारंभ  to decline , while the decolonisation of Asia and Africa began .
Most countries  जिनकी उद्योग  had been damaged moved towards economic recovery .
Political integration , especially in  यूरोपीय , उभरा as an प्रयत्न to stabilise  postwar relations and fight more effectively in the Cold War .
A limited liability company ( LLC ) is a  लचीली रूप of एंटरप्राइज़  that blends elements of partnership and corporate structures .
Note than an LLC is not a  निगम , और कॉलिंग an llc  a corporation is technically incorrect .
An LLC is a legal  रूप of कम्पनी कि provides सीमित  liability to its owners in the vast majority of United States jurisdictions .
LLCs do  नहीं need to be व्यवस्थित  for profit .
Five  k-cups
The inside of a used K-Cup , with the top foil and the used coffee  grounds removed  .
This shows the filter  अंदर the k-cup  .
K-Cup portion packs are used with Keurig or other single cup brewing systems to  काढ़ा a कप  of coffee , tea , or hot chocolate .
Each K-Cup is a plastic container with a coffee  फिल्टर  inside .
Ground coffee beans are packed in the K-Cup and sealed air-tight with a  संयोजन प्लास्टिक और  foil lid .
When the K-Cup is placed in a Keurig brewer  , the brewer punctures  the foil lid and the bottom of the K-Cup and forces hot water under pressure through the K-Cup and into a mug .
Keurig licenses its K-Cup technology to coffee roasters and tea makers such as Green Mountain Coffee Roasters ,  diedrich/ ग्लोरिया जीन्स , टिमोथी 's संसार  Coffee , Van Houtte , Caribou Coffee , Celestial Seasonings , Bigelow Tea Company , Twinings , Tully 's , Coffee People and Newman 's Own .
Keurig  's patents on the असली  K-Cup design expired in September 2012 .
Keurig holds at  तनिक एक अतिरिक्त  , still-active US patent and another patent application , detailing improvements that have subsequently been incorporated in their K-Cup design .
Electa Pocket Chronograph ( ca . 1890s ) manufactured by the Gallet Watch Company in La Chaux-de-Fonds  , स्विट्ज़रलैंड  .
Gallet  multichron astronomic ( ca . 1959 ) —complex mechanical chronograph  with 12 hour recoding capabilities , automatic day , date , month , and moon phase display
A modern Seiko quartz  wristwatch using the chronograph फलन  ( movement 7T92 ) .
Citizen Atessa Eco-Drive ATV53-3023 analog-digital chronograph with 4  क्षेत्रफल रेडियो नियंत्रित रिसेप्शन ( उत्तर  America , Europe , China , Japan ) .
A chronograph is a specific type of watch that is used as a stopwatch  संयुक्त साथ a प्रदर्शक  watch .
A basic chronograph has an independent sweep second  हाथ ; it can be प्रारंभ  , stopped , and returned to zero by successive pressure on the stem .
Louis Moinet invented the  chronograph  in 1816
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect , part of the PCI Local Bus standard and often  shortened to बस पीसीआई ) is a लोकल  computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the functions found on a  प्रोसेसर बस , लकिन in a मानकीकृत स्वरूप कि is स्वतंत्र  of any particular processor .
Devices connected to the bus appear to the processor to be connected directly to the processor bus , and are  आबंटित पता in the  processor 's address space .
Attached devices can take either the form of an  एकीकृत सर्किट fitted onto the मदरबोर्ड  itself , called a planar device in the PCI specification , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles , where it displaced the combination of ISA plus  एक vesa लोकल बस as the  bus configuration .
It has subsequently been  अपनाया लिये  other computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are  होने replaced by पीसीआई एक्स्प्रेस , लकिन , सबसे motherboards हैं स्टिल  made with one or more PCI slots , which are sufficient for many uses .
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and spacing of the circuit board edge electrical contacts ) ,  विद्युत विशेषताएँ , बस समय , और प्रोटोकॉल  .
The  specification can be खरीदा  from the PCI Special Interest Group ( PCI-SIG ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs include : network cards , sound  ताश , modems  , extra ports such as USB or serial , TV tuner cards and disk controllers .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the preferred interface for video  ताश  became AGP , and then PCI Express .
पीसीआई वीडियो ताश remain उपलब्धियाँ  for use with old PCs without AGP or PCI Express slots .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now commonly integrated onto motherboards  or उपलब्धियाँ in  universal serial bus and PCI Express versions .
Michael Whitaker Smith ( born October 7 , 1957 ) is an American contemporary  ईसाई संगीतकार  , who has charted primarily in the contemporary Christian and occasionally in the mainstream charts .
His biggest success in mainstream music was in 1991 when `` Place in  इस संसार '' hit no . 6  on the Billboard Hot 100 .
Smith is a three-time Grammy  पुरस्कार विजेता ,  and has earned 40 Dove Awards .
Over  the कोर्स of उसके करियर , he बेची अधिक than 13 लाख  albums and recorded 29 No . 1 Hit songs , fourteen gold albums , and five platinum albums .
Smith is an American  म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार प्राप्तकर्ता  ; he was also named one of People magazine 's `` Most Beautiful People '' .
An American poster from the World War II -era that was used to inform people  परिचय कया वे चाहिए  do if they suspect sabotage .
Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at weakening another entity through  subversion , रुकावट , disruption  , or destruction .
In a workplace setting , sabotage is  the सचेत वापसी of दक्षता generally  directed at causing some change in workplace conditions .
One who engages in sabotage  is a saboteur  .
As a rule ,  saboteurs कोशिश to छिपाते उनके पहचान क्युकी  of the consequences of their actions .
For example , whereas an environmental pressure group  might be प्रसन्न  to be identified with an act of sabotage , it would not want the individual identities of the perpetrators known .
Patrick Henry College  ( phc ) is a निजी , स्वतंत्र  college with an Evangelical Christian basis that focuses on teaching classical liberal arts and government , located in Purcellville , Virginia , United States .
Patrick Henry is known for its  रूढ़िवादी धर्मान्तरण ईसाई  focus .
As of April 17 , 2007 , the college was  accredited by the transnational संघ of ईसाई कॉलेजों और स्कूलों  , a national faith-related accrediting organization recognized by the Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation .
The school was founded with the help of the  घर स्कूल विधिक रक्षा संघ , और अभी serves  as the headquarters for the organization , with which it is still closely connected .
The history of  टेलीविज़न comprises the कार्य of  numerous engineers and inventors in several countries over many decades .
The earliest proposal was in 1908 , in a paper by A . A. Campbell-Swinton and  postulated the उपयोग of कैथोड  rays .
The first practical demonstrations of television ,  however , यहूद विकसित using electromechanical विधि  to scan , transmit , and reproduce an image .
As electronic camera and display tubes were perfected , electromechanical television  दिया रास्ता to all-electronic  systems in nearly all applications .
L'Idéal Cinéma - Jacques Tati at  aniche खोली नवम्बर 23rd 1905 ; the oldest still-active  movie theater in the world
A  सिनेमा  in Australia
A typical multiplex ( AMC  सैर 16 in  Woodland Hills , Los Angeles , U.S. )
A movie theater ( also called a cinema ,  फिल्म हाउस , फिल्मी हाउस , फिल्मी थिएटर  or picture house ) is a venue , usually a building , for viewing films .
Most but  नहीं सब फिल्म  theaters are commercial operations catering to the general public , who attend by purchasing a ticket .
The movie is projected with a movie projector onto a large projection screen  at the सामने  of the auditorium .
Most  फिल्म थिएटर हैं अभी equipped लिये  digital cinema projection , removing the need to create and transport a physical film print .
Southern California Norton  मालिक 's क्लबों  on California State Route 41 , near Creston .
A motorcycle club is a group of  individuals जिनकी प्राथमिक  interest and activities involve motorcycles .
Lyme disease , Lyme borreliosis is an  संक्रामक बीमारी caused by at तनिक  three species of bacteria belonging to the genus Borrelia .
Borrelia  burgdorferi sensu stricto is the प्रमुख कारण of lyme  disease in North America , whereas Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii cause most European cases .
The disease is named after the towns of Lyme and Old Lyme ,  कनेक्टिकट , यूएसए , जहाँ a क्रमांक  of cases were identified in 1975 .
हालांकि एलन steere एहसास कि lyme बीमारी थी a tick-borne बीमारी in  1978 , the cause of the disease remained a mystery until 1981 , when B. burgdorferi was identified by Willy Burgdorfer .
Lyme disease  is the सबसे  common tick-borne disease in the Northern Hemisphere .
Borrelia is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks belonging to a few  प्रजाति of the genus  Ixodes ( `` hard ticks '' ) .
Early symptoms may include fever , headache , fatigue , depression , and a characteristic circular skin  खाज पुकारा erythema migrans  ( EM ) .
Left untreated , later symptoms may involve  the joints , दिल  , and central nervous system .
In most cases , the infection and its symptoms are  eliminated by एंटीबायोटिक , विशेषकर if the बीमारी is treated  early .
Delayed or inadequate  उपचार can सीसे  to more serious symptoms , which can be disabling and difficult to treat .
penises of minke whales  on display at the Icelandic Phallological Museum
Penis ( plural penises or  penes  ) is a general term for the organs with which male and hermaphrodite animals introduce sperm into receptive females during copulation .
Such organs occur in many animals , both vertebrate and invertebrate , but males do not bear a penis in every animal species , and in those  प्रजाति in जिससे the पुरूष करता भालू a so-called शिश्न , the penes in the विभिन्न  species are not necessarily homologous .
For example , the penis of a mammal is at most analogous to the  शिश्न of a पुरूष कीट or  barnacle .
The term penis applies to many reproductive intromittent organs , but not to all ; for example the intromittent organ of most cephalopoda is the  hectocotylus , a specialised भुजा , और पुरूष  spiders use their pedipalps .
In most species of animals in which there is an organ that might reasonably be described as a penis , it  रै no प्रमुख फलन अन्य than intromission , or at तनिक  conveying the sperm to the female , but in the placental mammals the penis bears the distal part of the urethra , which discharges both urine during urination and semen during copulation as the occasion requires .
Artists and repertoire ( A & R ) is the division of a record label or music  प्रकाशन कम्पनी कि  is responsible for talent scouting and overseeing the artistic development of recording artists and/or songwriters .
It also acts as a liaison between artists and the record label or publishing  कम्पनी ; प्रत्येक कार्यकलाप involving कलाकारों to the पाइंट of एल्बम रिलीज is  generally considered under the purview of , and responsibility of , A & R .
A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial units and U.S. customary units equal to  one-eighth of a मील , समतुल्य to 220 गज , 660 फीट , 40 छड़  , or 10 chains .
The exact  मान of the furlong  varies slightly among English-speaking countries .
Five  furlongs हैं लगभग 1 किलोमीटर  ( 1.0058 km is a closer approximation ) .
Since the original definition of the metre was one-quarter of one ten-millionth of the circumference  of the धरती ( साथ the ग्रेट वृत्त coincident साथ the मध्याह्न of देशांतर  passing through Paris ) , the circumference of the Earth is about 40,000 km or about 200,000 furlongs .
cr2032 लिथियम  button cell battery
लिथियम  9 volt , AA , & AAA sizes
Lithium batteries  हैं डिस्पोजेबल ( प्राथमिक  ) batteries that have lithium metal or lithium compounds as an anode .
They stand apart  इससे अन्य  batteries in their high charge density ( long life ) and high cost per unit .
Depending on the design and chemical compounds used , lithium cells can produce voltages from 1.5 V  ( comparable to a zinc–carbon or क्षारीय बैटरी ) to परिचय 3.7 V. लिथियम बैटरी हैं  widely used in products such as portable consumer electronic devices .
Raymond `` Ray '' Charles Jack LaMontagne ( ; born June  18 , 1973 ) is an अमरीकी singer-songwriter  .
lamontagne रै released चार स्टुडियो एल्बम  , Trouble , Till the Sun Turns Black , Gossip in the Grain and God Willin ' & the Creek Do n't Rise .
He was born in New Hampshire and was inspired to create music after  सुनना an एल्बम by स्टीफन stills  .
Critics have compared LaMontagne  's म्यूज़िक  to that of The Band , Van Morrison , Nick Drake , and Tim Buckley .
He lives in Massachusetts with his wife and  दो children  .
When the Wind Blows is  a अनोखा by  James Patterson .
It is the precursor to The Lake  हाउस और प्रेरित the अधिकतम  Ride series .
The novel is  फिलहाल नियत to  be adapted into a movie .
The  पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स यहूद  founded in 1933 .
Over the course of the team 's history ,  the टोली रै था अनेक लोगो जबकि wearing वस्तुतः  the same uniforms over the years , with subtle changes made to give the uniforms an updated look .
The team colors ,  वर्दी , और  logo are often ranked as being among the best in the NFL .
Facebook on the  ad-tech  2010
Facebook is an online social networking service , whose name stems from the colloquial name for the book given to students at the start of the academic year by some  विश्वविद्यालयों administrations in the  United States to help students get to know each other .
It was founded in February 2004 by Mark Zuckerberg with his  कॉलेज roommates और fellow  Harvard University students Eduardo Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes .
The website 's membership was initially limited by the founders to Harvard  विद्यार्थी , लकिन थी विस्तारित to अन्य  colleges in the Boston area , the Ivy League , and Stanford University .
It gradually added support for students at various other universities before opening to  ऊँची स्कूल विद्यार्थी , और आखिरकार to  anyone aged 13 and over .
Facebook now allows any users who declare themselves to be at least 13 years old  to become  registered users of the site .
Users must register before using the  साईट , बाद जिससे वे may बनाएँ  a personal profile , add other users as friends , and exchange messages , including automatic notifications when they update their profile .
Additionally , users may join common-interest user groups , organized by  कार्यस्थल , स्कूल or कॉलेज , or अन्य विशेषताएँ , और  categorize their friends into lists such as `` People From Work '' or `` Close Friends '' .
As of September 2012 ,  फेसबुक रै over एक  billion active users .
according to a may 2011 उपभोक्ता रिपोर्ट्स सर्वेक्षण , वहीँ  are 7.5 million children under 13 with accounts and 5 million under 10 , violating the site 's terms of service .
In May 2005 ,  accel साझेदार invested $ 12.7 लाख  in Facebook , and Jim Breyer added $ 1 million of his own money to the pot .
A January 2009 Compete.com study  क्रमित फेसबुक as the सबसे प्रयुक्त  social networking service by worldwide monthly active users .
Entertainment Weekly included the site on its end-of-the-decade `` best-of '' list , saying , `` How on earth did we stalk our exes , remember our  co-workers ' जन्मदिन , कीड़ा हमारी मित्रों  , and play a rousing game of Scrabulous before Facebook ? ''
आलोचकों , ऐसे as फेसबुक detox , राज्य कि  Facebook has turned into a national obsession in the United States , resulting in vast amounts of time lost and encouraging narcissism .
Quantcast  estimates फेसबुक रै 138.9  million monthly unique U.S. visitors in May 2011 .
According to Social Media Today , in April 2010 an  अनुमानित 41.6 % ( 129.5  million ) of the U.S. population had a Facebook account .
Nevertheless , Facebook 's market growth started to stall in some regions , with the site losing 7  लाख क्रियाशील उपयोक्ता  in the United States and Canada in May 2011 .
Facebook eventually filed for an initial public offering on February 1 , 2012 , and was  headquartered in मेनलो पार्क , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  .
Facebook Inc.  began selling भण्डार to the पब्लिक और  trading on the NASDAQ on May 18 , 2012 .
Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel ( 15 November 1891 – 14 October 1944 ) , popularly known as The Desert  फॉक्स ( wüstenfuchs , ) , थी a जर्मनी फ़ील्ड मार्शल  of World War II .
He earned the respect of both  उसके अपना सैनिकों  and the enemies he fought .
Rommel was a highly decorated officer  in संसार युद्ध i और थी awarded  the Pour le Mérite for his exploits on the Italian front .
In World War II , he  further विशिष्ट  himself as the commander of the 7th Panzer Division during the 1940 invasion of France .
His leadership of German and Italian forces in the North African  अभियान स्थापित उसे as एक of  the most able commanders of the war , and earned him the appellation of the Desert Fox .
He is regarded as one of the most  skilled कमांडरों of मरुस्थल  warfare in the conflict .
He later commanded the German forces opposing the Allied  cross-channel आक्रमण in normandy  .
His  कार्यभार never  took him to the Eastern Front .
Rommel is regarded as having been a humane  और पेशेवर  officer .
His Afrika Korps was never accused of war crimes , and soldiers  captured दौरान उसके अफ़्रीकी अभियान  were reported to have been treated humanely .
Orders to kill Jewish soldiers , civilians and  captured कमांडो यहूद  ignored .
Late in the war , Rommel was linked to the  षड्यंत्र to assassinate  Adolf Hitler .
Since Rommel was a national  नायिका , हिटलर desired  to eliminate him quietly .
He forced  ख़बरों to कमिट आत्महत्या साथ a साइनाइड गोली , in  return for assurances that Rommel 's family would not be persecuted following his death .
stained  glass representation of the Holy Spirit as a dove , c. 1660 .
The seven gifts of the Holy Spirit is an enumeration of seven spiritual gifts originating with patristic authors , later elaborated by five  बौद्धिक virtues और चार अन्य समूह of नैतिक विशेषताएँ  .
They are : wisdom , understanding , wonder and awe ( fear of the Lord ) , counsel ,  ज्ञान , fortitude , और  piety ( reverence ) .
The Earth Day Flag , the latest proposal of John  mcconnell लिये a ध्वज of धरती  Day
Earth Day is an annual event , celebrated on April 22 , on which events are held  विश्वव्यापी to demonstrate  support for environmental protection .
It was  पहला मनाये in 1970 , और  is now coordinated globally by the Earth Day Network , and celebrated in more than 192 countries each year .
In 1969 at a  युनेस्को सम्मेलन in सैन फ्रांसिस्को  , the date proposed was March 21 , 1970 , the first day of spring in the northern hemisphere .
This day of  प्रकृति 's equipoise थी बाद  sanctioned in a Proclamation signed by Secretary General U Thant at the United Nations .
A month later a separate Earth Day was founded by United States Senator Gaylord Nelson  as an पर्यावरणीय teach-in पहला आयोजित on अप्रैल  22 , 1970 .
Nelson was later awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom Award in recognition of  उसके कार्य  .
While this April 22 Earth Day was  केन्द्रित on the संयुक्त राज्य  , an organization launched by Denis Hayes , who was the original national coordinator in 1970 , took it international in 1990 and organized events in 141 nations .
Numerous communities celebrate  धरती सप्ताह , an संपूर्ण  week of activities focused on environmental issues .
आयोडीन is a रासायनिक  element with symbol I and atomic number 53 .
The name is from Greek  ioeidēs , अर्थ  violet or purple , due to the color of elemental iodine vapor .
Iodine and  इसके यौगिकों हैं primarily  used in nutrition , and industrially in the production of acetic acid and certain polymers .
Iodine 's relatively high atomic number , low toxicity , and ease of attachment to organic  यौगिकों have बना it a भाग of अनेक x-ray  contrast materials in modern medicine .
Iodine  रै तभी एक  stable isotope .
A number of  आयोडीन radioisotopes हैं  also used in medical applications .
Iodine is found  on धरती मुख्यतः as the अत्यधिक  water-soluble iodide ion , I− , which concentrates it in oceans and brine pools .
Like the other halogens ,  फ़्री आयोडीन occurs मुख्यतः as a diatomic  molecule I2 , and then only momentarily after being oxidized from iodide by an oxidant like free oxygen .
In the universe and on Earth , iodine 's high  परमाणु क्रमांक  makes it a relatively rare element .
However , its presence in ocean water  रै दिए  it a role in biology .
It is the heaviest essential element utilized widely by life in biological functions ( only tungsten , employed  in एंजाइमों by a few प्रजाति of जीवाणु  , is heavier ) .
Iodine 's rarity in many soils , due to initial low abundance as a crust-element , and also leaching  of घुलनशील आयोडाइड by rainwater , रै led to अनेक कमियां समस्याएं in  land animals and inland human populations .
Iodine deficiency affects  परिचय दो अरब लोगों और is the अग्रणी preventable  cause of intellectual disabilities .
Iodine is  जरूरी by उच्चतर पशु , जिससे  use it to synthesize thyroid hormones , which contain the element .
Because of this function , radioisotopes of iodine are concentrated in the  थायराइड ग्रंथि साथ  with nonradioactive iodine .
If inhaled , the radioisotope iodine-131 , which has a high fission product yield , concentrates in the thyroid , but is easily remedied with potassium  आयोडाइड उपचार  .
Lobbying ( also lobby ) is the act of attempting to influence decisions made by officials in the  सरकारी , सबसे प्रायः विधायक or सदस्यों  of regulatory agencies .
Lobbying is done by many different types of people and organized groups , including individuals in the private sector , corporations , fellow legislators or government officials , or advocacy  समूह (  interest groups ) .
Lobbyists may be among a legislator 's constituencies ,  अर्थ a वोटर or bloc of मतदाता भीतर उसके or उसके चुनावी  district , or not ; they may engage in lobbying as a business , or not .
Professional lobbyists are people whose business is trying to influence legislation on behalf of  a समूह or व्यक्तिगत  who hires them .
Individuals and nonprofit organizations can also lobby as an act of volunteering or as a small part of their  सामान्य जॉब ( लिये उदाहरण , a सीईओ बैठक साथ a प्रतिनिधि परिचय a प्रोजेक्ट महत्वपूर्ण to his/her  company , or an activist meeting with his/her legislator in an unpaid capacity ) .
Governments often define and regulate organized group lobbying  कि रै become influential  .
The ethics and morality of  lobbying  are .
Lobbying  is प्रायः बोला of साथ  contempt , when the implication is that people with inordinate socioeconomic power are corrupting the law ( twisting it away from fairness ) in order to serve their own conflict of interest .
But  another पक्ष of lobbying is बनाना  sure that others ' interests are duly defended against others ' corruption , or even simply making sure that minority interests are fairly defended against mere tyranny of the majority .
For example , a medical association , or a trade association of health insurance companies , may lobby a legislature in order to counteract the influence of tobacco companies  , in जिससे मामला the lobbying होता be viewed by सबसे लोगों as जायज  ( duly defending against others ' corruption ) .
The difficulty in drawing objective lines  between जिससे lobbyists हैं `` शुभ  lobbyists '' and which ones are `` bad ones '' is compounded by the cleverness with which lobbyists or their clients can argue that their own lobbying is of the `` good '' kind .
At heart , the effort to  influence विधान  is a power struggle .
as in अन्य फ़ॉर्म of शक्ति संघर्ष , ऐसे as युद्ध or विधि  enforcement , motives range from to self-defense to fighting for justice , and the dividing line between predation and justice is subject to rationalization .
Sunshine of your  प्रेम गिटार  riff
Cream were a 1960s British rock supergroup consisting of bassist/vocalist Jack Bruce , guitarist/vocalist  eric क्लैप्टन , और वादक अदरक बेकर .
Their sound was characterised by a hybrid of blues rock , hard rock and  साइकेडेलिक चट्टान , combining the psychedelia-themed  lyrics , Eric Clapton 's blues guitar playing and vocals , Jack Bruce 's voice and prominent bass playing and Ginger Baker 's jazz -influenced drumming .
the समूह 's तीसरा  album , Wheels of Fire , was the world 's first platinum-selling double album .
Cream are widely regarded as being the world 's first successful  supergroup .
In their career , they sold over 15  लाख एल्बम विश्वव्यापी  .
Cream 's music included songs  आधारित on परंपरागत ब्लूज़ ऐसे as `` क्रॉसरोड्स  `` and `` Spoonful `` , and modern blues such as `` Born Under a Bad Sign `` , as well as more eccentric songs such as `` Strange Brew `` , `` Tales of Brave Ulysses `` and `` Toad `` .
Cream 's biggest hits were `` I Feel Free `` ( UK , number 11 ) , `` Sunshine of Your Love  `` ( us , क्रमांक 5 ) , `` श्वेत रूम `` ( us , क्रमांक  6 ) , `` Crossroads '' ( US , number 28 ) , and `` Badge `` ( UK , number 18 ) .
Cream made a significant impact on the popular music of the time , and ,  साथ साथ जिमि हेंड्रिक्स , और टेरी कठ  of Chicago , popularised the use of the wah-wah pedal .
They provided a heavy yet technically proficient  musical थीम कि foreshadowed  and influenced the emergence of British bands such as The Jeff Beck Group in the late 1960s .
The band 's live  प्रदर्शन बहकावे  progressive rock acts such as Rush .
Cream were inducted into the Rock  और फेंकें हॉल  of Fame in 1993 .
They were  शामिल in दोनो रोलिंग स्टोन और vh1 's सूचियाँ  of the `` 100 Greatest Artists of All Time '' .
They were also ranked  क्रमांक 16 on vh1 's  `` 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock '' .
Hairspray is a 1988 comedy film written and directed by John Waters , and starring Ricki Lake , Sonny  बोनो , डिब्बी हैरी , माइकल st. जेरार्ड , shawn  Thompson , Colleen Fitzpatrick , Jerry Stiller , and in his last film role , Divine .
Hairspray was a dramatic departure from Waters '  पहले works , साथ a  much broader intended audience .
In fact , Hairsprays PG is the  mildest दरजा a waters फिल्मी रै प्राप्त ;  most of his previous films were rated X by the MPAA .
Set in 1962 Baltimore , Maryland , the film revolves around  self-proclaimed `` pleasantly plump '' किशोरावस्था ट्रेसी turnblad as वो pursues  stardom as a dancer on a local TV show and rallies against racial segregation .
Hairspray  थी तभी a मॉडरेट कामयाबी upon इसके आरंभिक  theatrical release , earning a modest gross of $ 8 million .
However ,  it प्रबंधित to आकर्षित a larger  audience on home video in the early 1990s and became a cult classic .
Most critics praised the film , although some were displeased with the overall  campiness  .
In 2002 , the film was adapted into a  ब्रॉडवे musical of the वही नाम , जिससे जीती आठ टोनी  Awards , including Best Musical in 2003 .
A second film version of Hairspray , an adaptation of the stage musical , was also released by New Line Cinema  in 2007 , जिससे शामिल अनेक परिवर्तन of scripted  items from the original .
The film also ranks #  444 on साम्राज्य पत्रिका 's  2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time .
A Christian denomination is  an identifiable धार्मिक  body under a common name , structure , and doctrine within Christianity .
Some groups included do not consider themselves a denomination ( e.g. , the Catholic Church considers itself  the एक सच्चा गिरिजाघर और the अपोस्टोलिक देखिए  , and as pre-denominational ) .
Some groups viewed by non-adherents as denominational actively resist being called a denomination and do not have any formal denominational structure , authority , or record-keeping beyond the  लोकल सभा ; अनेक समूह भीतर बहाली गति  fall into this category .
Some groups are large ( e.g . Catholics , Lutherans , Anglicans or Baptists  ) , जबकि अन्य हैं बस a few छोटी चर्च  , and in most cases the relative size is not evident in this list .
Modern movements such as Fundamentalist Christianity , Pietism , Evangelicalism , Pentecostalism and the Holiness movement sometimes cross denominational lines , or in some cases create new  denominations आउट of दो or अधिक continuing समूह , ( as is the मामला लिये  many United and uniting churches , for example ) .
ऐसे subtleties और  complexities are not clearly depicted here .
Major divisions  भीतर christianity  .
Note : This is not a complete list , but aims to  provide a comprehensible अवलोकन  of the diversity among denominations of Christianity .
As there are reported to be approximately 41,000 Christian denominations , many of which can not be verified to be  significant , तभी those denominations साथ विकिपीडिया आलेख होगा be सूचीबद्ध in अनुक्रम to  ensure that all entries on this list are notable and verifiable .
Between denominations , theologians  , और तुलनात्मक religionists वहीँ हैं considerable मतभिन्नता परिचय जिससे  groups can be properly called Christian , disagreements arising primarily from doctrinal differences between groups .
For  the purpose of सादगी  , this list is intended to reflect the self-understanding of each denomination .
Explanations of different opinions  concerning उनके औकात as ईसाई denominations  can be found at their respective articles .
There is no official recognition in most parts of the world for religious bodies , and there is no official clearinghouse which could determine the status or  respectability of धार्मिक लाशें  .
Often there is  considerable असहमति between विभिन्न  churches about whether other churches should be labeled with pejorative terms such as `` cult '' , or about whether this or that group enjoys some measure of respectability .
Such considerations often vary from place to  प्लेस , जहाँ एक धार्मिक समूह may आनंद बहुमत औकात in  one region , but be widely regarded as a `` dangerous cult '' in another part of the world .
Inclusion on this list does not indicate any judgment about the size , importance , or  अक्षर of a समूह  or its members .
1804 map of ``  louisiana `` , edged on the  west by the Rocky Mountains .
The Louisiana Purchase ( `` Sale of Louisiana '' ) was the acquisition by the United States of  अमेरिका in 1803  of of France 's claim to the territory of Louisiana .
The U.S. paid 50 million francs ( $ 11 ,250,000 ) plus cancellation of debts worth 18 million francs ( $ 3,750,000 ) , for a total sum of 15  लाख डॉलर ( कम than 3 सेंट प्रति एकड़  ) for the Louisiana territory ( $ million in dollars , less than 42 cents per acre ) .
The  louisiana territory encompassed  all or part of 15 present U.S. states and two Canadian provinces .
The land purchased contained all of present-day Arkansas , Missouri , Iowa , Oklahoma , Kansas , and Nebraska ; parts of Minnesota that were west of the Mississippi River ; most of North Dakota ; most of South Dakota ; northeastern New Mexico ; northern Texas ;  the portions of मोंटाना , व्योमिंग , और कोलोराडो ईस्ट of the महाद्वीपीय divide ; louisiana वेस्ट of the मिसिसिपी नदी , सहित  the city of New Orleans ; and small portions of land that would eventually become part of the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan .
France  नियंत्रित इस  vast area from 1699 until 1762 , the year it gave the territory to its ally Spain .
Under Napoleon Bonaparte , France took back the  territory in 1800  in the hope of building an empire in North America .
A slave revolt in Haiti and an impending war with Britain , however , led France to  लापरवाही ये योजनाएँ और बेचें the संपूर्ण territory to the  United States , who had originally intended only to seek the purchase of New Orleans and its adjacent lands .
The purchase of the territory of  louisiana took प्लेस दौरान  the presidency of Thomas Jefferson .
At the time  , the खरीदें faced घरेलू  opposition because it was thought to be unconstitutional .
Although he agreed that the U.S. Constitution did not contain provisions for acquiring territory , Jefferson decided to go ahead with the purchase anyway in order to remove France 's presence in the region and to protect both  u.S. व्यापार अभिगम to the बंदरगाहों of नई ऑरलियन्स  and free passage on the Mississippi River .
Ceremony at Place d'Armes , New Orleans marking transfer of Louisiana to the United States , 10 March  1804 , as चित्रित by thure  de Thulstrup .
`` Cool Jerk '' is a popular song written by Donald Storball and originally  performed by the capitols  .
Released in 1966 , it reached No . 2 on the American R & B  चार्ट और no . 7  on the pop chart .
The backing track for this song was actually  अंकित ( secretly  ) by the Motown house band The Funk Brothers .
Per one  of the दुर्गंध भाइयो , the सोंग थी originally  to be called `` Pimp Jerk . ''
This was taken  इससे watching पड़ोस pimps  , who would dance in the clubs , but were too `` cool '' to do the jerk like regular folks .
Their  संस्करण  was subsequently named `` the Pimp Jerk . ''
The producer was afraid that a song with the word pimp in the title would be banned or not  प्राप्त much धनात्मक ध्यान  , and had the title changed to its current form .
The Go-Go 's , Todd Rundgren , Big Trouble , Human Sexual Response , The La De Da 's , The Creation , and  the coasters have covered  the song .
Todd Rundgren did his version in an odd time signature ( 7/4 ) ,  giving  an obviously jerky feel to the song .
The  go-go 's covered the  song for their 1982 album Vacation and later re-recorded it for their 1990 album Greatest .
In the feature film Home Alone 2 : Lost in New York , Uncle Frank ( Gerry  bamman ) गाती `` कूल झटका  '' in the shower .
A version of the song  साथ अलग गीत ( `` do the  Cool Whip '' ) is used in Cool Whip commercials .
A recording of `` Cool  झटका '' by  Ricardo Ray is featured in the feature film Donnie Brasco ( 1997 ) .
The song features in the film Standing in the Shadows of Motown , performed by  the दुर्गंध भाइयो साथ  lead vocals by Bootsy Collins .
The song is heard briefly  in the एनिमेटेड विशेषता  , Madagascar 3 : Europe 's Most Wanted .
Despite this reason , it is  सूचीबद्ध in कुछ विसंगतियाँ  of the film 's soundtrack .
A league is a unit of  लंबाई ( or , rarely  , area ) .
It was long common in Europe and Latin America , but it is no longer an official  ईकाई in कोई स्वदेश .
The league originally  referred to the अलहदा  a person could walk in an hour .
Since the Middle Ages , many values have been  निर्दिष्ट in अनेक  countries .
In the context of nautical distances , the 3 mile ( 4.8 km ) distance  corresponds to कैसा दूर an निरीक्षक of औसत ऊँचाई ( 5'9 '' or 1.78  m ) can see when standing at sea level .
Thus , a ship traveling  एक  `` league '' has reached what was previously the farthest visible distance on the horizon .
The lack of a historical and global standard for the exact measure of a `` league '' can be accounted for by the variable elevation of the observer ( i.e. ,  sightings इससे a जलयान 's डेक vs. masthead ) .
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free State ,  a डोमिनियन of the अंग्रेजों  Commonwealth , having seceded from the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Treaty .
It comprises 26 of Ireland  's 32 काउंटी  .
Since 1949 it has existed as the  गणतंत्र of आयरलैंड  .
From its foundation , the Irish Free State was  embroiled in a सिविल युद्ध between राष्ट्रवादियों  supporting the Treaty and opponents who supported a republic .
The pro-Treaty  पक्ष , संगठित as cumann na ngaedheal उभरा  victorious from the conflict and won subsequent elections .
They formed the government of the state until 1932 , when they peacefully  हात over शक्ति to  the anti-Treaty faction in Fianna Fáil , who defeated them in an election .
The Irish state , despite its violent  beginnings , रै remained  a liberal democracy throughout its existence .
A new constitution in 1937 removed many of the links with Britain established under the Treaty and Ireland 's  neutrality in the दूसरी संसार युद्ध demonstrated इसके स्वतंत्रता  in foreign policy matters from Britain .
In  1948 आयरलैंड  formally left the British Commonwealth and adopted the title of `` Republic '' .
In the  आर्थिक गोला ,  the Irish state has had a mixed performance .
On independence , it was one of the wealthier  देशों in  Europe per head of population .
However it  भी inherited इससे अंग्रेजों नियम the समस्याएं of बेरोजगारी  , emigration , uneven geographical development and lack of a native industrial base .
For much of its history , the state struggled to  rectify ये समस्याएं  .
Particular peaks  of करणों यहूद अंकित दौरान the लेट 1930s , 1950s  and 1980s , when the Irish economy recorded little growth .
In the 1930s , Fianna Fáil governments attempted to create Irish domestic industries using  subsidies और सुरक्षात्मक  tarifs .
In the late 1950s , these policies were dropped in favour of free trade with  चयनित देशों और प्रोत्साहित  of foreign investment with low taxes .
This was expanded when Ireland  डाला the यूरोपीय आर्थिक  Community in 1972 .
In the 1990s and 2000s , Ireland experienced an economic boom known as the Celtic  बाघ , in जिससे the देश 's  GDP surpassed many of its European neighbours .
Immigration also surpassed emigration , bringing the state  's जनसांख्यिकी up to over 4 लाख  .
However , since 2008 , Ireland has  अनुभवी a कठोर संकट in the  banking sector and with sovereign debt .
The resultant economic slump has deepened the effect of the world recession on  आयरलैंड  .
From 1937 to 1998 , the Irish constitution included a  अर्जी on उत्तरी आयरलैंड as a भाग of  the national territory .
However , the state also opposed and  प्रयुक्त इसके सुरक्षा शक्तियां  against those armed groups - principally the Provisional Irish Republican Army , who tried to unite Ireland by force .
This  occurred in the 1950s , throughout  the 1970s and 1980s and has continued on a reduced scale .
Irish governments  meanwhile आजमाया to दलाली  an agreement to the conflict known as The Troubles within Northern Ireland from 1968 to the late 1990s .
The British government officially recognised  the सही  of the Irish government to be a party to the Northern negotiations in the Anglo-Irish Agreement of 1985 .
In 1998 , as part of the Good Friday Agreement , the Irish constitution was altered by referendum to remove the territorial claim to  उत्तरी आयरलैंड और बजाय extend the सही of आयरिश नागरिकता to सब the लोगों of  the island should they wish to have it .
John Quincy Adams ( July 11 , 1767February 23 , 1848 ) was the sixth President of the United  राज्य ( 1825–1829 ) .
He served as American diplomat , Senator , and  congressional प्रतिनिधि  .
He was a member of the  federalist , democratic-republican  , National Republican , and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties .
एडम्स  was the son of former President John Adams and Abigail Adams .
As a  राजनयिक , एडम्स निभाई an  important role in negotiating many international treaties , most notably the Treaty of Ghent , which ended the War of 1812 .
As Secretary of State , he negotiated with the United Kingdom over America 's  उत्तरी किनारा साथ कनाडा  , negotiated with Spain the annexation of Florida , and authored the Monroe Doctrine .
Historians agree he was one of the greatest  राजनयिकों और secretaries  of state in American history .
As president ,  he sought to modernize  the American economy and promoted education .
एडम्स enacted a भाग  of his agenda and paid off much of the national debt .
He was stymied by a Congress controlled by his enemies , and  उसके कमी of patronage संजाल  helped politicians eager to undercut him .
He lost his 1828  बोली लिये re-election  to Andrew Jackson .
In doing so , he became the first president since his father to serve  a सिंगल  term .
Adams is best known as a diplomat who shaped America 's foreign policy in line with his ardently nationalist commitment to  अमेरिका 's रिपब्लिकन  values .
अधिक recently होवे ( 2007 ) portrayed एडम्स  as the exemplar and moral leader in an era of modernization .
During Adams ' lifetime , technological innovations and new means of  संचार स्प्रेड संदेश of धार्मिक  revival , social reform , and party politics .
Goods , money , and people traveled more rapidly and efficiently than  कभी पहले .
Adams was elected a U.S. Representative from Massachusetts after leaving office , serving for the last 17 years of his life with far  वृहद acclamation  than he had achieved as president .
He is , so far , the only president later elected  to the संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  ( though John Tyler was elected to the House of Representatives of the Confederate States just before his death in 1862 ) .
Animated by his growing revulsion against slavery , Adams became a leading opponent of  the स्लेव शक्ति  .
He predicted that if a civil war were to break out , the president could  abolish गुलामी by using उसके युद्ध शक्तियां  .
Adams also predicted the Union 's dissolution over the slavery issue , but said that  if the दक्षिण became स्वतंत्र  there would be a series of bloody slave revolts .
Windows Internet Explorer 9 ( IE9 ) is a version of the  अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर  web browser from Microsoft .
It was released to the public  on कूच 14  , 2011 .
Microsoft has released Internet Explorer 9 as a major  out-of-band संस्करण कि is नहीं tied to the रिलीज अनुसूची of कोई  particular version of Windows , unlike previous versions .
It is the first version since Internet Explorer 2 to not be bundled with a Windows operating system , although some OEMs have  संस्थापित it साथ खिड़कियाँ 7 on उनके pcs , as खूब as नई खिड़कियाँ 7  laptops .
The system requirements for Internet Explorer 9 are Windows 7 , Windows Server 2008 R2 , Windows Vista Service Pack 2  or खिड़कियाँ सर्वर 2008  SP2 with the Platform Update .
Windows  xp और पहले हैं नहीं  supported .
Internet Explorer 9  is the पिछला संस्करण of अंतरजाल  Explorer to be supported on Windows Vista .
Both IA-32 and x64  builds हैं उपलब्धियाँ  .
अंतरजाल एक्सप्लोरर 9 supports अनेक  CSS 3 properties , embedded ICC v2 or v4 color profiles support via Windows Color System , and has improved JavaScript performance .
It is the last of  the पाँच प्रमुख वेब browsers  to implement support for Scalable Vector Graphics ( SVG ) .
It also features hardware-accelerated graphics rendering using Direct2D , hardware-accelerated text  रेंडरिंग using directwrite , hardware-accelerated वीडियो रेंडरिंग using मीडिया  Foundation , imaging support provided by Windows Imaging Component , and high fidelity printing powered by the XML Paper Specification ( XPS ) print pipeline .
Internet Explorer 9 also supports the  html5 वीडियो और ऑडियो  tags and the Web Open Font Format .
Alka-Seltzer is an effervescent antacid and pain reliever  पहला marketed by the dr . मील आयुर्विज्ञान  Company .
It was developed by Maurice Treener , head chemist at  मील , in  Elkhart , Indiana .
Alka-Seltzer is marketed for relief of minor aches , pains , inflammation , fever , headache , heartburn , sour  पेट , अपच  , and hangovers , while neutralizing excess stomach acid .
It was  शुभारम्भ  in 1931 .
A spin-off of Alka-Seltzer made to relieve colds and flu  , alka-seltzer  Plus , was later introduced .
A short-lived antacid non-aspirin variant ,  alka-mints , थी introduced in  1994 and discontinued in 1997 .
Alka-Seltzer is currently owned by Bayer Schering  फार्मा ag , जर्मनी  .
The name `` Alka-Seltzer '' has been extended to incorporate an entire line of medications sold over the counter and taken  by अर्थात् of rapidly dissolving टैबलेट कि रूप  a carbonated solution in water .
Cherry Alka Seltzer  प्लस टैब्लेट dissolving  in water
Image showing the  छह सबसे आम speleothems  with labels .
enlarge  to view labels .
A stalactite ( , ; from the Greek stalasso , ( σταλάσσω ) , `` to drip '' , and meaning `` that which drips '' ) is a type of speleothem (  द्वितीयक खनिज ) कि hangs इससे the छत of  limestone caves .
It is a type  of dripstone  .
The  सम्बन्धित गठन  on the floor of the cave is known as a stalagmite .
Degree abbreviations are used as an alternative way to specify an academic degree instead of spelling out the title in full , such as in reference   books like Who 's Who and on business cards .
Many  डिग्री  have more than one abbreviation .
In  the  UK , it is not generally the custom to punctuate abbreviations for degrees with full stops ( e.g . `` BSc '' rather than `` B.Sc . `` .
Race is a classification system used to categorize humans into large and distinct populations or  समूह by anatomical , सांस्कृतिक , जातीय , जेनेटिक , भौगोलिक , ऐतिहासिक  , linguistic , religious , or social affiliation .
First used to denote national  संबद्धों , the पद began to be प्रयुक्त  to relate to physical traits in the 17th century .
In the early 20th century the term was often  प्रयुक्त , in a taxonomic भाव  , to denote genetically differentiated human populations defined by phenotype .
जबकि biologists sometimes उपयोग the अवधारणा of रेस to मेक भेद among फजी सेट of traits , अन्य in the वैज्ञानिक  community suggest that the idea of race often is used in a naive or simplistic way , i.e . that among humans , race has no taxonomic significance : all living humans belong to the same species , Homo sapiens and subspecies , Homo sapiens sapiens .
Social conceptions  और groupings of दौड़  vary over time , involving folk taxonomies
that  define of individuals  based on perceived traits .
Scientists consider biological  essentialism obsolete , और generally discourage  racial explanations for collective differentiation in both physical and behavioral traits .
Since the second half of the 20th century the associations of race with the  विचारधाराओं और theories  that grew out of the work of 19th-century anthropologists and physiologists has led to the use of the word race itself becoming problematic .
Although  स्टिल प्रयुक्त in सामान्य contexts ,  it is now often replaced by other words which are less ambiguous and emotionally charged , such as populations , people ( s ) , ethnic groups or communities depending on context .
Lucy  स्टोन ( अगस्त 13 , 1818 – अक्तूबर 19 , 1893 ) थी  a prominent American abolitionist and suffragist , and a vocal advocate and organizer promoting rights for women .
In 1847 , Stone became the first woman from Massachusetts to  earn a कॉलेज उपाधि  .
She spoke out for women 's rights and against slavery at a  समय जब महिलाओं यहूद हतोत्साहित  and prevented from public speaking .
Stone was the first recorded American woman to retain her own   last name after marriage .
Stone 's organizational activities for the  कारण of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों yielded ठोस  gains in the difficult political environment of the 19th century .
Stone helped initiate the first National Women 's Rights Convention and she supported and sustained it annually along with a number of  अन्य लोकल , राज्य और क्षेत्रीय activist  conventions .
Stone spoke in front of  a क्रमांक of  legislative bodies to promote laws giving more rights to women .
She assisted in establishing the Woman 's National Loyal League to help pass the Thirteenth Amendment and thereby abolish slavery , after which she helped form the largest group of like-minded women  's अधिकारों reformers , the नीतियां मॉडरेट अमरीकी स्त्री suffrage  Association , which worked for decades at the state level in favor of women 's right to vote .
Stone wrote  extensively परिचय a चौड़ी दायरा of महिलाओं 's अधिकारों  , publishing and distributing speeches by herself and others , and convention proceedings .
In the long-running and influential Woman  's जर्नल , a साप्ताहिक periodical कि वो  established and promoted , Stone aired both her own and differing views about women 's rights .
Called `` the orator '' and `` the morning star of the woman 's rights movement '' , Stone delivered a speech which sparked Susan B.  एंथोनी to लो up the कारण of महिलाओं 's  suffrage .
Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote that ``  लुसी स्टोन थी the पहला व्यक्ति by जिसको the दिल of the  American public was deeply stirred on the woman question . ''
Together , Anthony , Stanton , and Stone have been called  the 19th सदी `` triumvirate  `` of women 's suffrage and feminism .
In  वित्त , a बंध  is an instrument of indebtedness of the bond issuer to the holders .
It is a debt security , under which the issuer owes the holders a debt and , depending on the terms of the bond , is obliged to pay them interest ( the coupon ) or to repay the  प्रिंसिपल at a बाद तिथि , termed the परिपक्वता  .
Interest is  प्रायः देय  at fixed intervals ( semiannual , annual , sometimes monthly ) .
Very often the bond is negotiable , i.e . the  स्वामित्व of the यंत्र  can be transferred in the secondary market .
Thus a bond is a form of loan or IOU : the holder  of the बंध is the lender  ( creditor ) , the issuer of the bond is the borrower ( debtor ) , and the coupon is the interest .
Bonds provide the borrower with external funds to finance long-term investments , or , in the  मामला of सरकारी bonds , to वित्त वर्तमान व्यय  .
प्रमाणपत्र of जमा ( cds ) or छोटी पद वाणिज्यिक पेपर हैं माना  to be money market instruments and not bonds : the main difference is in the length of the term of the instrument .
Bonds and  स्टॉक्स हैं दोनो प्रतिभूति , लकिन the  major difference between the two is that ( capital ) stockholders have an equity stake in the company ( i.e . they are owners ) , whereas bondholders have a creditor stake in the company ( i.e . they are lenders ) .
Another difference is that bonds usually have a defined term  , or परिपक्वता , बाद जिससे the बंध is redeemed ,  whereas stocks may be outstanding indefinitely .
An exception is an  irredeemable बंध , ऐसे  as Consols , which is a perpetuity , i.e . a bond with no maturity .
A scale  मॉडल of the  Tower of London .
This model  can be  found inside the tower .
Scale  मॉडल of जल  powered turbine
L to R with 12  इंच शासक at नीचे : 1:64  Matchbox Chevrolet Tahoe , 1:43 Ford F-100 , 1:25 Revell Monogram 1999 Ford Mustang Cobra , 1:18 Bburago 1987 Ferrari F40
मॉडल जहाजों  and castle
A scale model is a physical model , a representation  or नक़ल of an ऑब्जेक्ट कि is larger or छोटी than the वास्तविक  size of the object , which seeks to maintain the relative proportions ( the scale factor ) of the physical size of the original object .
Very often the scale  मॉडल is प्रयुक्त as a  guide to making the object in full size .
Scale  मॉडल हैं निर्मित or एकत्रित  for many reasons .
The Zune HD was a portable media player in the Zune product family  released on सितंबर  15 , 2009 by Microsoft .
It was a direct  प्रतिस्पर्धी साथ the ठहराना  iPod and iPhone series of mobile devices .
It  थी initially  released in 16 and 32 GB capacities .
A  64 gb  version was released on April 9 , 2010 .
It utilized a touchscreen interface for navigation and included Wi-Fi for  तुल्यकालन , अभिगम to the zune मार्केटप्लेस  and Web browsing .
The Zune HD utilized the Nvidia Tegra APX 2600 chip , allowing it to play 720p video  through the वैकल्पिक hdmi zune डॉक  on a high-definition television .
Otherwise , content would be scaled down to 480x272  पिक्सेल on the खिलाड़ी 's oled  touchscreen .
Old Sparky , the electric  कुर्सी प्रयुक्त at गाओ गाओ  prison
Execution by electrocution , usually performed using an electric chair , is an execution method  originating in the संयुक्त राज्य  in which the condemned person is strapped to a specially built wooden chair and electrocuted through electrodes placed on the body .
This  निष्पादन विधि थी निर्मित by  employees of Thomas Edison during the War of Currents , and has been used only in the United States and , for a period of several decades , in the Philippines ( its first use there in 1924 under American occupation , last in 1976 ) .
Historically , once the condemned person was attached to the chair , various cycles ( differing in voltage and duration ) of alternating current would be passed through the individual  's देह , in अनुक्रम to  cause fatal damage to the internal organs ( including the brain ) .
The first jolt of electric current was designed to cause immediate  unconsciousness और दिमाग मौत ; the दूसरी  one was designed to cause fatal damage to the vital organs .
Death  थी अक्सर  caused by electrical overstimulation of the heart .
Although in the United States the electric chair has become a symbol of the death penalty , its use is in decline due to the rise of lethal injection , which is  widely believed to be a अधिक दयालु विधि of निष्पादन  .
Although some states still maintain electrocution as a method  of निष्पादन , आज it is तभी कायम as a द्वितीयक  method that may be chosen over lethal injection at the request of the prisoner .
As of 2010 , electrocution is an optional  रूप of निष्पादन  in Alabama , Florida , South Carolina and Virginia .
They allow the prisoner to choose lethal  इंजेक्शन  as an alternative method .
In the states of Kentucky and Tennessee , the electric chair has been retired except for those whose capital crimes were committed prior to legislated dates in 1998 ( Kentucky : March 31 , 1998 ; Tennessee : December 31 ,  1998 ) और जो  chose electrocution .
In both states , inmates who do not choose electrocution or inmates who committed their crimes after the  designated तिथि हैं मारे by lethal इंजेक्शन  .
The electric chair is an alternate form  of निष्पादन स्वीकृत लिये संभावित उपयोग in अरकंसास और ओक्लाहोमा if अन्य फ़ॉर्म of निष्पादन  are found unconstitutional in the state at the time of execution .
It is the sole method of  निष्पादन in वर्मांट  , where treason is the only capital crime .
On February 8 , 2008 , the Nebraska Supreme Court determined that execution by electric chair was a `` cruel and  असामान्य दंड '' अंतर्गत the राज्य 's  constitution .
This brought  executions of इस प्रकार to an  end in Nebraska , the only remaining state to retain electrocution as its sole method of execution for murder .
The Maryland House of Delegates is the lower house of the General  सभा , the राज्य विधानमंडल of the अमरीकी  State of Maryland , and is composed of 141 Delegates elected from 47 districts .
The House of Delegates Chamber is  स्तिथ in the मेरीलैंड राज्य हाउस  ( state capitol ) on State Circle in Annapolis , which is the state capital .
The State House also houses the Maryland State Senate Chamber and  the कार्यालयों of the राज्यपाल और लेफ्टिनेंट  Governor of the State of Maryland .
Each Delegate has offices in Annapolis , in the nearby Casper R. Taylor , Jr. House  दफ्तर भवन  .
The Liberation of Paris ( also known as  the बैटल लिये पेरिस ) took प्लेस  during World War II from 19 August 1944 until the surrender of the occupying German garrison on 25 August .
The Liberation of  पेरिस प्रारंभ साथ an uprising by the फ्रेंच  Resistance against the German garrison .
On 24 August , the French Forces of the Interior ( Forces françaises de  l'intérieur , ffi ) प्राप्त सुदृढीकरण  from the Free French Army of Liberation and from the U.S. Third Army under General Patton .
The capital region  of फ़्रांस था  been governed by Nazi Germany since the signing of the Second Compiègne Armistice in June 1940 , when the German Army occupied northern and westernmost France , and when the puppet regime of Vichy France was established in the town of Vichy in central France .
This battle marked the liberation of Paris and the  निर्वासन of the vichy  government to Sigmaringen in Germany .
However , there was still much heavy  लड़ to be किया पहले फ़्रांस थी liberated , सहित the अभियान in दक्षिणी फ़्रांस दौरान  August-September ( in Provence and extending into the southwestern region of the Vosges Mountains ) , along the German-held seaports of western France ( such as at Brest and Dunkirk ) , in Alsace and Lorraine in eastern France , and in northeastern France , such as along the Rhine and Moder Rivers .
The German Army  और ss लड़ा doggedly  in these areas for the remainder of 1944 and into 1945 .
`` Feelin ' Alright ? ''  भी ज्ञात as `` अहसास alright '' is a सोंग लिखा by डेव मेसन of the  English rock band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album , Traffic .
The song  थी भी a hit सिंगल लिये अनेक performers  : Joe Cocker ( 1969 , # 69 , recharted in 1972 , US # 33 ) , Mongo Santamaría ( 1969 , # 95 ) and Grand Funk Railroad ( 1971 , US # 54 ) .
It has also been recorded by Three Dog Night ( 1969 ) , The 5th Dimension ( 1970 ) , Lou Rawls , Freddie King , Paul Weller , Lulu , Chairmen of the Board ( 1970 ) , Rare Earth , The Electric Concept Orchestra , Mother 's Finest ( 1973 ) , The Ohio Players ( 1971 ) , Diana Ross with the Jackson 5 ( 1971 ) , Maceo Parker , Gladys Knight & the  pips , फैली  Panic and The Black Crowes .
A Steel Drum version by Trinidad Oil Company was  reissued on the dancefloor जैज़  compilation Blue Juice 2 .
It was also featured in the  2000 फिल्मी  Duets , sung by Huey Lewis .
Both the original and the Joe Cocker cover were  प्रदर्शित in the फिल्म उड़ान , अभिनीत  Denzel Washington .
Devon Werkheiser ( born March 8,1991 ) is an  अमरीकी कर्ता , आवाज़ कर्ता , सिंगर , songwriter और संगीतकार , बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके अभिनीत  role as Ned Bigby on the Nickelodeon sitcom Ned 's Declassified School Survival Guide and for his role in the 2007 TV Movie Shredderman Rules , as the lead character Nolan Byrd .
Werkheiser also played Peter Parkes in the fourth and final  ऋतु of  the ABC Family show Greek .
Sample  दृश्य of an  electronic health record based on images
Sample view of  an इलेक्ट्रॉनिक स्वास्थ्य  record
An electronic health record ( EHR ) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection of electronic health  सूचना परिचय  individual patients or populations .
It is a record  in डिजिटल स्वरूप कि  is theoretically capable of being shared across different health care settings .
In some cases this sharing can occur by way of  network-connected enterprise-wide  information systems and other information networks or exchanges .
EHRs may include a range of data , including demographics , medical history , medication and allergies , immunization status , laboratory test results ,  radiology बिंब , vital  signs , personal stats like age and weight , and billing information .
ऋण origination  is the process by which a borrower applies for a new loan , and a lender processes that application .
Origination generally includes all the steps from taking a loan  अनुप्रयोग  up to disbursal of funds ( or declining the application ) .
Loan servicing covers everything after disbursing the  निधि जबतक the ऋण is fully  paid off .
Loan origination is a specialized version  of  new account opening for financial services organizations .
Certain people and organizations  specialize in ऋण origination  .
Mortgage brokers and other mortgage originator companies serve as a  prominent उदाहरण  .
वहीँ हैं अनेक  different types of loans .
For more information on loan  प्रकार , देखिए the ऋण और उपभोक्ता lending आलेख  .
Steps involved in originating a loan vary  by ऋण प्रकार , विभिन्न kinds of ऋण रिस्क , नियामक  , lender policy , and other factors .
Top left : The Tennessee Valley  प्राधिकार , भाग of the  New Deal , being signed into law in 1933 .
Top right : Franklin  delano रूज़वेल्ट , जो थी जिम्मेदार  for initiatives and programs collectively known as the New Deal .
नीचे : a पब्लिक  mural from one of the artists employed by the New Deal .
The New Deal was a series of economic programs  enacted in the संयुक्त राज्य between 1933 और  1936 .
They involved presidential executive orders or laws  passed by कॉंग्रेस दौरान the पहला  term of President Franklin D. Roosevelt .
The programs were  in जवाब to the ग्रेट अवसाद  , and focused on what historians call the `` 3 Rs '' : Relief , Recovery , and Reform .
कि is राहत लिये the बेरोजगार  and poor ; Recovery of the economy to normal levels ; and Reform of the financial system to prevent a repeat depression .
The New Deal produced a political realignment , making the Democratic Party  the बहुमत ( as खूब as the पार्टी कि आयोजित the श्वेत हाउस लिये सात आउट of नौ अध्यक्षीय शर्तें इससे 1933 to 1969  ) , with its base in liberal ideas , the white South , traditional Democrats , big city machines , and the newly empowered labor unions and ethnic minorities .
The Republicans were split , with conservatives opposing the  संपूर्ण नई सौदे as an दुश्मन of कारोबार  and growth , and liberals accepting some of it and promising to make it more efficient .
The realignment crystallized into the New Deal Coalition that dominated most presidential elections into the 1960s , while the opposition Conservative  गठबन्धन largely  controlled Congress from 1937 to 1963 .
By 1936 the term  `` उदार ''  typically was used for supporters of the New Deal , and `` conservative `` for its opponents .
From 1934 to 1938 , Roosevelt was  assisted in उसके  endeavours by a “pro-spender” majority in Congress ( drawn from two-party , competitive , non-machine , Progressive , and Left party districts ) .
As noted by Alexander Hicks , “Roosevelt , backed by rare , non-Southern Democrat majorities — 270 non-Southern  डेमोक्रेट प्रतिनिधि और 71 non-southern डेमोक्रेट सीनेटरों  — spelled Second New Deal reform.”
Many historians distinguish between a `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) and a `` Second New Deal '' ( 1935–38 ) , with the second one  अधिक उदार  and more controversial .
The `` First New Deal '' ( 1933–34 ) dealt with diverse groups , from banking and railroads to  उद्योग और खेती , सब of जिससे मांगे  help for economic survival .
The Federal Emergency Relief Administration , for instance , provided $ 500 million for relief operations by states and  शहरों , जबकि the short-lived cwa ( सिविल works प्रशासन  ) gave localities money to operate make-work projects in 1933-34 .
The ``  दूसरी नई सौदे `` in 1935–38 शामिल the वेगनर अधिनियम to प्रचार मजदूर संघ , the works  Progress Administration ( WPA ) relief program ( which made the federal government by far the largest single employer in the nation ) , the Social Security Act , and new programs to aid tenant farmers and migrant workers .
The final major items of New Deal legislation were the creation of the United States Housing Authority and Farm Security Administration , both in 1937 , and the Fair  मजदूर मानकों अधिनियम of 1938 , जिससे नियत अधिकतम घंटों और न्यूनतम  wages for most categories of workers .
The economic downturn of 1937–38 , and the bitter split  between the afl और cio मजदूर संघ  led to major Republican gains in Congress in 1938 .
Conservative Republicans and Democrats in Congress joined in the informal  रूढ़िवादी  Coalition .
By 1942–43 they shut down relief programs such as the WPA and CCC and blocked  प्रमुख उदार प्रस्ताव  .
Roosevelt himself turned his attention  to the युद्ध प्रयत्न ,  and won reelection in 1940 and 1944 .
The Supreme Court declared the National Recovery Administration ( NRA ) and the first version of the Agricultural  समायोजन अधिनियम (  AAA ) unconstitutional , however the AAA was rewritten and then upheld .
As the first  रिपब्लिकन अध्यक्ष निर्वाचित बाद fdr ,  Dwight D. Eisenhower ( 1953–61 ) left the New Deal largely intact , even expanding it in some areas .
In the 1960s , Lyndon B. Johnson 's Great Society used the New Deal as inspiration for a dramatic  विस्तार of उदार कार्यक्रम , जिससे  Republican Richard M. Nixon generally retained .
After 1974 , however , the call for deregulation of the  अर्थव्यवस्था gained bipartisan support  .
The New Deal regulation of banking (  glass–steagall  Act ) was suspended in the 1990s .
Many New Deal programs remain active , with some still operating under the original names , including the Federal Deposit  बीमे निगम ( fdic ) , the संघीय क्रॉप बीमे निगम ( fcic ) , the संघीय आवास  Administration ( FHA ) , and the Tennessee Valley Authority ( TVA ) .
The largest programs still in existence today are the Social Security System and the Securities and Exchange Commission  ( SEC )  .
A woman ( ) , pl :  महिलाओं ( ) is a मादा  human .
The term woman is usually reserved for an adult , with the  पद लड़की होने the usual  term for a female child or adolescent .
However , the term woman is also  sometimes प्रयुक्त to पहचानो a मादा इंसान , regardless  of age , as in phrases such as `` Women 's rights `` .
Women are typically capable of giving birth , though older women who have gone through menopause  और कुछ intersex महिलाओं can  not .
`` I Do n't Want to Miss a Thing '' is a song  performed by अमरीकी चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ  for the 1998 film Armageddon .
Written by Diane Warren , the song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 ( the first #  1 लिये the बैंड बाद  28 years together ) .
The song stayed at  क्रमांक एक लिये चार सप्ताह इससे  September 5 to September 26 , 1998 .
the सोंग भी  stayed at number 1 for several weeks in several other countries .
in the uk , the सोंग  peaked at number four , becoming Aerosmith 's highest charting song in the UK , where it was the 17th best-selling single of 1998 , and has sold over a million copies .
Although not used by the majority of the world 's countries , daylight  छायांकन समय is आम in  the Western world .
Daylight saving time ( DST )  —also गर्मियाँ समय in अंग्रेजों अंग्रेज़ी — is the अभ्यास of advancing  clocks during the lighter months so that evenings have more daylight and mornings have less .
typically  clocks are adjusted forward one hour near the start of spring and are adjusted backward in autumn .
The modern idea of daylight saving was first  प्रस्तावित in 1895 by जार्ज vernon हडसन और it थी पहला implemented  during the First World War .
Many countries have used it  at विभिन्न टाइम्स चूंकि  then .
Much of the United States  प्रयुक्त dst in the 1950s और 1960s , और dst उपयोग विस्तारित following  the 1970s energy crisis and has been widely used in North America and Europe since then .
The practice has been both praised  और criticized  .
Adding daylight to evenings benefits retailing , sports , and other activities that exploit sunlight after working  घंटों , लकिन can कारण समस्याएं लिये संध्या entertainment  and other occupations tied to the sun .
Although an early goal of DST  थी to reduce संध्या उपयोग of incandescent lighting ( formerly a प्राथमिक उपयोग of विद्युत ) , आधुनिक  heating and cooling usage patterns differ greatly , and research about how DST currently affects energy use is limited or contradictory .
DST  क्लॉक शिफ्ट  present other challenges .
They complicate timekeeping , and can disrupt meetings , travel , billing , record keeping , medical  डिवाइस , भारी उपकरण , और नींद  patterns .
Software can often adjust computer clocks automatically , but  इस can be सीमित और error-prone  , particularly when DST dates are changed .
floorplan of  the Château de Montargis
Montargis is a commune in the Loiret  विभाग in north-central  France on the Loing river .
The town is located about  दक्षिण of पेरिस और ईस्ट  of Orléans in the Gâtinais .
Montargis is the second largest city in  the loiret  , after Orléans .
It is near a large forest ,  और contains लाइट उद्योग  and farming , including saffron .
Due to its numerous canals and  पुलों , montargis sometimes बिल्स itself  as the `` Venice of the Gâtinais . ''
Though quite modern , it retains a medieval charm in  इसके  downtown area .
In computer storage , a logical unit number , or LUN , is a number used to identify a logical unit , which is a device addressed by the SCSI protocol or protocols which encapsulate SCSI  , ऐसे as fibre चैनल or iscsi  .
A LUN may be used with any device which supports read/write operations , such as a tape drive , but is most often  प्रयुक्त to refer to a लॉजिकल डिस्क as निर्मित  on a SAN .
Though not  technically सही , the पद `` lun ''  is often also used to refer to the logical disk itself .
The Gospel According to Mark ( , , to euangelion  kata markon ) , commonly shortened to the इन्जील of चिह्नित  or simply Mark , is the second book of the New Testament .
This canonical account of  the जीवन of यीशु of नासरत is एक of  the three synoptic gospels .
It was thought to be an epitome , which accounts for its  प्लेस as the दूसरी  gospel in the Bible .
However ,  सबसे समकालीन  scholars now regard it as the earliest of the canonical gospels ( c 70 ) .
That Mark was used as a source for the other  synoptic gospels इन्जील  of Matthew and Gospel of Luke is widely held by many , although not all , New Testament scholars .
The Gospel of Mark narrates the Ministry of Jesus from his baptism  by जॉन the बैपटिस्ट  to his death and resurrection .
It focuses particularly on the  पिछला सप्ताह of उसके जीवन  ( chapters 11–16 ) in Jerusalem .
Its swift narrative portrays  यीशु as a वीर man of  action , an exorcist , healer and miracle worker .
An important theme of Mark is  the मुक्तिदाता रहस्य  .
Jesus silences the demoniacs he heals , tries unsuccessfully to  रखना उसके मुक्तिदाता पहचान रहस्य  , and conceals his message with parables .
Meanwhile , the disciples fail to understand both the implication of the miracles of Jesus and the meaning of the  बाते he predicts परिचय उसके गिरफ़्तार , मौत और क़यामत  .
Most scholars believe that the original text of the gospel ends at Mark 16:8 with the discovery of Jesus ' empty tomb and that  the following खाता of उसके क़यामत  appearances is a later addition .
According to  परंपरा और कुछ जल्दी गिरिजाघर  writers , the author is Mark the Evangelist , the companion of the apostle Peter .
The gospel , however , appears to rely on several underlying sources , varying in form and in theology ,  जिससे tells विरूद्ध the परंपरा  that the gospel was based on Peter 's preaching .
The text is a compilation which may include eye-witness accounts as well as known apostolic  preachings  , and pre-existing written records that do not exist today but can be confirmed from 2nd-century commentators .
Some of the stories in the gospel may have been transmitted orally  पहले होने लिखा  down .
विभिन्न तत्व  within the gospel suggest that the author wrote in Syria or Palestine for a non-Jewish Christian community .
The Lord of the Rings is an  एपिक ऊँची काल्पनिक अनोखा लिखा  by English philologist and University of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien .
The story began as a  sequel to tolkien  's 1937 children 's fantasy novel The Hobbit , but eventually developed into a much larger work .
It was written in stages between  1937 और 1949 , much  of it during World War II .
It is the second best-selling novel ever written , with  over 150 लाख  copies sold .
The title of the novel refers to the story 's main antagonist , the Dark Lord Sauron , who had in an earlier age created the One Ring to rule the other Rings of  शक्ति as the परम हथियार in उसके अभियान to जीतें और नियम सब  of Middle-earth .
From quiet beginnings in the Shire , a Hobbit land not unlike the English countryside , the story ranges across north-west Middle-earth , following the course of the War of the Ring through the eyes of its characters , notably the hobbits Frodo Baggins , Samwise `` Sam '' Gamgee , Meriadoc  `` मैरी '' brandybuck और peregrin `` pippin '' took , लकिन भी the hobbits ' मुख्य allies और यात्राएं companions : aragorn , a इंसान  Ranger ; Boromir , a man from Gondor ; Gimli , a Dwarf warrior ; Legolas , an Elven prince ; and Gandalf , a Wizard .
The work was initially intended by Tolkien to be one volume of a two-volume set ,  साथ the अन्य होने the silmarillion , लकिन इस विचार थी बर्खास्त by उसके  publisher .
It was decided for economic reasons to publish The Lord of the Rings as  तीन आयतन over the कोर्स of a साल  from 29 July 1954 to 20 October 1955 , thus creating the now familiar Lord of the Rings trilogy .
The three volumes were entitled The Fellowship of the Ring ,  the दो मीनारें  , and The Return of the King .
Structurally , the novel is divided internally into six books , two per  आवाज़ , साथ अनेक appendices of पृष्ठभूमि  material included at the end of the third volume .
The Lord of the Rings has since been  reprinted numerous टाइम्स और अनूदित  into many languages .
Tolkien 's work has  महरूम the विषय  of extensive analysis of its themes and origins .
Although a major work in itself ,   the story was only the last movement of a larger epic Tolkien had worked on since 1917 , in a process he described as mythopoeia .
प्रभाव on इस पहले कार्य , और on the स्टोरी of the रब of the बजती , शामिल  philology , mythology , religion and the author 's distaste for the effects of industrialization , as well as earlier fantasy works and Tolkien 's experiences in World War I .
The Lord of the Rings in its turn is considered to have had a great effect on modern fantasy ; the impact of Tolkien  's works is ऐसे कि the उपयोग of the शब्द `` tolkienian '' और  `` Tolkienesque '' have been recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary .
The enduring popularity of The Lord of the Rings has led to numerous references in popular culture , the founding of many societies by fans of Tolkien 's works , and the publication of many books about  tolkien और उसके works  .
The Lord of the Rings has inspired , and continues to inspire , artwork , music , films and television , video  खेल , और subsequent साहित्य  .
Award-winning adaptations of The Lord of the Rings have been made  लिये रेडियो ,  theatre , and film .
The following is an  एपीसोड सूची लिये the  Nickelodeon sitcom Drake & Josh .
The series debuted on  जनवरी 11 ,  2004 .
A TV film Merry Christmas , Drake & Josh was  बना अलावा इससे the नियमित श्रेणी  on December 5 , 2008 .
There are a total of 60 episodes  यहूद उत्पादित spanning  four seasons .
Drake Bell , Josh Peck , and Miranda Cosgrove were  the तभी अभिनेताओं to appear in सब  60 episodes .
The San Francisco  49ers conduct प्रशिक्षण शिविर at  the team 's headquarters and practice facility in Santa Clara , California in August 2010 .
The offense is wearing red jerseys with the exception of quarterback  एलेक्स स्मिथ , जो is in a ब्लैक जर्सी  ; the defense in white .
In the National Football League , training camp  refers to the समय पहले the ऋतु  commences .
During this time ,  टीमों होगा sometimes congregate  at an outside location , usually a university , to conduct training camp for at least the first few weeks .
This  is समान to बेसबॉल  's spring training .
Training camp is used in  अनेक अलग तरीके  .
New players and coaches  उपयोग it to acclimate themselves  to new teammates and systems .
For younger players , it serves as a period of  मूल्यांकन ; लिये दिग्गजों , it is समय  to round back into form .
Training camp is divided into  अनेक अलग  components .
The first is  scrimmages .
These are pseudo-games  जहाँ टीमों चलाएं nearly पूरा खेल '  worth of plays .
sometimes  , two practice sessions are held on the same day .
This concept is  referred to as two-a-days  .
Other parts of training camp include drills , meetings with coaches and other players at one  's स्थिति , वज़न प्रशिक्षण , और pre-season खेल  .
The  latter हाफ of  training camp leads directly into the exhibition season .
साथ एनएफएल प्रशिक्षण  camps starting in late-July , the biggest concern has been dehydration .
In 2001 , Minnesota  वाइकिंग्स खिलाड़ी korey stringer  died of a medical condition based from dehydration and heatstroke .
The death of Stringer prompted the NFL  to  change their training policies .
At each practice , every team must have the team doctor and  प्रशिक्षकों on the फ़ील्ड ; additionally  , an ambulance must be present during practices .
साथ एनएफएल प्रशिक्षण  camps beginning in late July , severe weather can affect practice and exhibition games .
In 2002 , a Cleveland Browns exhibition  खेल ended due to बिजली निकट क्लीवलैंड भूरा स्टेडियम  , and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps .
Fans are often able to visit their favorite team 's training camp to catch an early look at the players ; admission to practices is often free or substantially less expensive than a game ticket , making training camp trips a popular option for fans who can not attend  अनेक खेल due to वित्तीय  or other reasons .
NFL teams often sell souvenirs and concessions at camp sites along with offering activities and  कार्यक्रम to मेक प्रशिक्षण शिविर a अधिक  fan-friendly experience .
In computing , a file system ( or filesystem ) is a type of data store which  can be प्रयुक्त to स्टोर , retrieve  and update a set of files .
The term could refer to the abstract data structures used to define files , or to the actual software or firmware components that  implement  the abstract ideas .
Some file systems are used on local data storage  डिवाइस ; अन्य provide संचिका  access via a network protocol ( e.g . NFS , SMB , or 9P clients ) .
Some  संचिका प्रणालियों हैं `` आभासी ''  , in that the `` files '' supplied are computed on request ( e.g . procfs ) or are merely a mapping into a different file system used as a backing store .
The file system  manages अभिगम to दोनो the सामग्री  of files and the metadata about those files .
It is responsible for  arranging भंडार स्पेस ; विश्वसनीयता  , efficiency , and tuning with regard to the physical storage medium are important design considerations .
William Howard Taft ( September 15 ,  1857 – कूच 8 , 1930 ) थी the 27th अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States ( 1909–1913 ) and later the tenth Chief Justice of the United States ( 1921–1930 ) .
He is the only person  to have परोसा  in both of these offices .
Before becoming President , Taft , a Republican , was selected  to serve on the श्रेष्ठ अदालत  of Cincinnati in 1887 .
In 1890 , Taft was appointed Solicitor General of the United States and in 1891 a judge on the  संयुक्त राज्य अदालत of appeals लिये the  Sixth Circuit .
In 1900 , President William  mckinley नियुक्त taft governor-general  of the Philippines .
In 1904 , President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Taft Secretary of War in an effort to groom Taft , then his close political ally , into  उसके handpicked अध्यक्षीय  successor .
Taft assumed a prominent role in problem solving , assuming on some occasions the role of acting Secretary of State , while declining repeated offers from  रूज़वेल्ट to serve on the  Supreme Court .
Riding a wave of popular support for fellow Republican Roosevelt , Taft won an easy victory in  उसके 1908 बोली लिये the प्रेसिडेंसी .
in उसके तभी पद , taft 's घरेलू कार्यसूची emphasized  trust-busting , civil service reform , strengthening the Interstate Commerce Commission , improving the performance of the postal service , and passage of the Sixteenth Amendment .
Abroad , Taft sought to further the economic development of nations in Latin America and Asia through `` Dollar  कूटनीति `` , और दिखाया decisiveness और  restraint in response to revolution in Mexico .
The task-oriented Taft was oblivious to the  राजनैतिक ramifications of उसके निर्णय , प्रायः  alienated his own key constituencies , and was overwhelmingly defeated in his bid for a second term in the presidential election of 1912 .
In surveys of presidential  विद्वानों , taft is प्रायः क्रमित  near the middle of lists of all American Presidents .
After leaving office , Taft spent his time in  academia , मध्यस्थता , और the ढूंढें लिये संसार  peace through his self-founded League to Enforce Peace .
In 1921 , after the First World War , President Warren G. Harding appointed Taft Chief Justice of the  संयुक्त राज्य  .
Taft served in this capacity until  shortly पहले उसके  death in 1930 .
The Ten Commandments is a 1956 epic film produced and directed by Cecil B. DeMille that dramatized the biblical story of the Exodus , in which the Hebrew-born Moses , an  अपनाया मिश्र प्रिंस , becomes  the deliverer of the Hebrew slaves .
It starred Charlton Heston in the lead role , Yul Brynner  as उसके adoptive bhai , pharaoh rameses ii , ऐनी बैक्सटर as nefretiri  , Edward G. Robinson as Dathan , Yvonne De Carlo as Sephora , Debra Paget as Lilia , and John Derek as Joshua .
The supporting cast includes Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Pharaoh Seti I , Nina Foch as  bithiah , मार्था स्कॉट as yoshebel ,  Judith Anderson as Memnet , Vincent Price as Baka , and John Carradine as Aaron .
The film was released by Paramount Pictures in  vistavision on अक्तूबर 5  , 1956 .
The Ten Commandments , which DeMille  narrated , थी the पिछला फिल्मी कि  he directed .
He was set to direct the  1958 रीमेक of उसके 1938 फिल्मी  The Buccaneer , but his final illness forced him to relinquish the directing chores to his son-in-law , actor Anthony Quinn .
DeMille had also planned to  फिल्मी the जीवन of रब baden पावेल , the संस्थापक  of the Scout movement , with David Niven ; this project was never realized .
The Ten  आयतें is a आंशिक रीमेक  of DeMille 's 1923 silent film .
Some of the cast and crew of the 1956 version  worked  on the original .
It has since been remade as a  टेलीविज़न miniseries ब्रॉडकास्ट in अप्रैल  2006 .
The Ten Commandments is one of the most financially  कामयाब films कभी  made , grossing over $ 65 million at the U.S. box office .
Adjusting for inflation , this makes it  the छठे highest-grossing फिल्मी domestically , साथ  an adjusted total of $ 1,025,730,000 in 2012 .
The  बक्सा दफ्तर जालस्थल  `` The Numbers '' lists the domestic gross at $ 80 million .
In 1999 , The Ten Commandments was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being `` culturally , historically , or  aesthetically significant  '' .
In June 2008 , the American Film Institute revealed its `` Ten Top Ten ``  —the बेहतरीन टेन films in टेन अमरीकी फिल्मी genres—after polling over 1,500 लोगों  from the creative community .
The Ten Commandments was  सूचीबद्ध as the दसवाँ बेहतरीन फिल्मी  in the epic genre .
The film received seven Academy  पुरस्कार nominations सहित बेहतरीन चित्र  , and won the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects .
Charlton Heston was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for  बेहतरीन गति चित्र कर्ता in the नाटक  category .
Yul Brynner won the National Board of Review Award for Best Actor for his role as Rameses , along with his other  भूमिकाएँ in the किंग और i और अनास्तासिया  .
Louisville ( , or ) is a major city and the largest city in the U.S. state of Kentucky and the  काउंटी सीट of जेफरसन काउंटी .
Since 2003 , the city 's borders have been with those of the county  क्युकी of a city-county  merger .
The city 's total consolidated population at the 2010 census was 741,096  ( louisville 's संतुलन कुल  , 602,011 , excludes semi-autonomous towns and is the population listed in most sources and national rankings ) .
As of 2010 , the Louisville metropolitan area ( MSA ) had a population of 1,307,647  रैंकिंग 42nd nationally  .
The metro area includes Louisville-Jefferson County and 12  surrounding काउंटी , आठ in केंटकी और चार in दक्षिणी इंडियाना  ( see Geography below ) .
The Louisville Combined  सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल , having a जनसांख्यिकी of 1,451,564 , शामिल the एमएसए ,  Hardin County and Larue County in Kentucky , and Scott County , Indiana .
An important internal  शिपिंग बंदरगाहों in the 19th सदी , louisville आज  is best known as the location of the Kentucky Derby , the first of three annual thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown .
A typical  प्रायोगिक सेटअप  for an aldol reaction .
Both  flasks हैं submerged  in a dry ice/acetone cooling bath ( −78 °C ) the temperature of which is being monitored by a thermocouple ( the wire on the left ) .
A cooling bath , in laboratory chemistry ( often but not always organic chemistry )  अभ्यास , is a द्रव मिश्रण जिससे is प्रयुक्त to maintain  low temperatures , typically between 13 °C and −196 °C .
These low temperatures are used to collect liquids after  आसवन , to हटाएँ सॉल्वैंट्स using a रोटरी evaporator , or to perform a रासायनिक प्रतिक्रिया  below room temperature ( see : kinetic control ) .
Cooling baths are generally one of two types : ( a ) a cold fluid ( particularly liquid nitrogen , water , or even air ) — but most commonly the term refers to (  b ) a मिश्रण of 3 components : ( 1 ) a कूलिंग एजेंट ( ऐसे as शुष्क बर्फ or जल बर्फ ) ; ( b ) a द्रव 'कैरीr ' ( ऐसे as द्रव जल , एथिलीन ग्लाइकोल , एसीटोन , इत्यादि . ) , जिससे  transfers heat between the bath and the vessel ; ; and ( c ) an additive to depress the melting-point of the solid/liquid system .
( A familiar example of this is the use of  an ice/rock-salt मिश्रण to फ्रीज  ice cream .
The phase-change of ice  into द्रव जल requires  energy , 'pulling ' heat from the system .
Adding salt lowers the temp at  जिससे इस happens , अर्थ अधिक उर्जा रै  to be absorbed from the environment in order to melt the ice .
This effectively makes the ice 'colder ' — it must 'pull ' more heat from its  पर्यावरण to become द्रव  . )
Eating disorders are conditions defined by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient or  excessive खाना सेवन to the detriment of an व्यक्तिगत 's शारीरिक  and mental health .
Bulimia nervosa and  एनोरेक्सिया नर्वोज़ा हैं  the most common specific forms in the United Kingdom .
Other types of eating disorders include binge eating disorder and eating disorder  नहीं वरना निर्दिष्ट  .
Bulimia nervosa is a disorder characterized by  binge  eating and purging .
Purging can include self-induce vomiting , over-exercising , and  the उपयोग of diuretics , enemas ,  and laxatives .
Anorexia nervosa is  characterized by चरम  food restriction to the point of self-starvation and excessive weight loss .
Though primarily thought of as affecting females ( an estimated 5–10  लाख होने प्रभावित in the  U.K. ) , eating disorders affect males as well .
An  अनुमानित 10 – 15 % of लोगों साथ  eating disorders are males ( Gorgan , 1999 ) .
( an estimated 1  लाख u.K. males  being affected ) .
Although eating disorders are increasing all over the world among both  मेन और महिलाओं , वहीँ is प्रमाण to सुझाएँ कि it  is women in the Western world who are at the highest risk of developing them and the degree of westernization increases the risk .
Nearly half of all Americans personally know  किसी साथ an खाने विकार  .
The skill to  comprehend the सेंट्रल प्रक्रियाओं of भूख रै increased  tremendously since leptin was discovered , and the skill to observe the functions of the brain as well .
Interactions between motivational , homeostatic and  self-regulatory कंट्रोल प्रक्रियाओं हैं शामिल in खाने आचरण  , which is a key component in eating disorders .
The precise cause of eating disorders is not entirely  समझा , लकिन वहीँ is प्रमाण कि it may be linked  to other medical conditions and situations .
Cultural idealization of thinness and youthfulness have contributed to eating  विकार affecting  diverse populations .
One study showed that girls with ADHD have a greater chance of getting an eating disorder  than those नहीं प्रभावित by  ADHD .
Another study suggested that women with PTSD , especially due to  sexually सम्बन्धित आघात  , are more likely to develop anorexia nervosa .
One study showed that foster girls are  अधिक संभावित to develop  bulimia nervosa .
Some think that peer pressure and idealized body-types seen in the  मीडिया हैं भी  a significant factor .
Some research show  कि लिये निश्चित लोगों वहीँ हैं जेनेटिक  reasons why they may be prone to developing an eating disorder .
Recent studies have found  प्रमाण a सहसंबंध between  patients with bulimia nervosa and substance use disorders .
In addition , anxiety disorders and personality disorders are  आम आवृत्ति साथ क्लाइंट  of eating disorders .
While proper treatment can be highly effective for many suffering from specific types of eating disorders , the consequences of eating disorders can be  कठोर , सहित मौत ( whether इससे सीधा चिकित्सा प्रभाव of अशांत खाने आदतें or इससे comorbid शर्तें ऐसे  as suicidal thinking ) .
गुलामी in the संयुक्त राज्य existed इससे the जल्दी सालो  of the colonial period ; it was firmly established by the time the United States sought independence from Great Britain in 1776 .
However , by 1804 , all states north of the  मेसन और डिक्सन लकीर था either abolished गुलामी  outright or passed laws for the gradual abolition of slavery .
In 1787 Congress  निषिद्ध  slavery in the Northwest Territory .
But slavery gained new life in the South with the cotton  उद्योग बाद 1800 , और विस्तारित into  the Southwest .
The nation was polarized into slave and free states along the  mason-dixon लकीर , जिससे अलग पेन्सिलवेनिया और मेरीलैंड  .
The United States and Great Britain both prohibited the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्लेव व्यापार in 1808 , लकिन the घरेलू व्यापार , साथ बिक्री to the गहन दक्षिण , विस्तारित dramatically  , and many captives were shipped by the coastwise slave trade .
Before the 1840s , the South was  vigorously defending गुलामी और इसके विस्तार  into the territories .
In the North some  abolitionists denounced it as गुनाहगार , और numerous anti-slavery  forces rejected it as detrimental to the rights of free men .
After failed compromises and Abraham Lincoln 's election , in 1861 eleven slave states broke away to  रूप the confederate राज्य of अमेरिका , अग्रणी to  the American Civil War .
The federal government in 1862  बना abolition  of slavery a war goal .
In January 1863 President Lincoln freed slaves in the  confederacy through the emancipation  Proclamation .
After the war , the Thirteenth Amendment , effective December 1865 , abolished slavery throughout the entire United States ,  सहित the किनारा राज्य और the भारतीय territories  .
From the 16th to the 19th centuries , an estimated 12 million Africans  यहूद shipped  as slaves to the Americas .
See Slavery in the  americas  .
The great majority went to the sugar plantations of the West Indies or  ब्राज़ील , जहाँ मृत्यु थी  high .
About 645,000  यहूद brought to कया is अभी  the United States .
By the 1860  संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी  , the slave population in the American South had grown to four million .
Of all 1,515,605 families  in the 15 स्लेव राज्य , nearly 400,000  held slaves ( roughly one in four ) , amounting to 8 % of all American families .
While some slaves worked as house servants and urban artisans , the great majority worked on plantations or large farms , cultivating lucrative cash crops , such as rice  , तम्बाकू , शुगर और , बाद 1800 ,  chiefly cotton .
By 1860 most slaves were held in the Deep South ,  जहाँ वे परोसा in work-gangs ; two-thirds  worked in cotton .
In small  परिचालन , वे  worked with their owners .
In large  बागानों वे यहूद निर्देशित  by white paid overseers .
Under the system that became chattel slavery ( ownership  of a इंसान होने , और of his/her वंशजों ) , a जातिगत तत्व थी आधारभूत : स्लेव  were blacks of African descent and owned , almost universally , by whites of European descent .
In the 17th century , Virginia , followed by other southern colonies , enacted law  कि children of स्लेव माताओं यहूद  born into slavery .
Slaves could gain freedom only by running away ( which was difficult and illegal  to do ) , or by manumission by स्वामी , जिससे थी regulated by राज्य , और  became increasingly difficult or prohibited .
In the earliest era of chattel slavery , the colonies also organized work by a system of  बंधुआ मजदूर ज्ञात as  indentured servitude .
This typically lasted for several years for both poor Europeans and Africans  alike , to अदा बंद the  costs of transport to the colonies .
They contracted for such arrangements because  of ग़रीब economies in उनके घर  countries .
Between 1680 and 1700 , as fewer Europeans  migrated to the colonies  , planters began to import more Africans as slaves .
Recognizing the importance of slavery , the House of Burgesses in Virginia enacted a new slave code in 1705 ; it combined a variety of  विधान  and added new provisions enforcing white supremacy in the law .
Schematic cross section of part of leaf , xylem  दिखाया as रेड वृत्त at फिगर  8 .
Xylem is one of the two types of transport  ऊतक in vascular पौधे (  phloem is the other ) .
The word xylem is derived from the Greek  शब्द ξύλον ( xylon ) , अर्थ  `` wood '' ; the best-known xylem tissue is wood , though it is found throughout the plant .
Its basic function is to transport water , but it also transports  some  nutrients through the plant .
This clock representation shows some of  the प्रमुख इकाई  of geological time and definitive events of Earth history .
The Hadean eon represents the time  पहले चट्टान रिकार्ड of जीवन on धरती ; इसके अपर boundary is अभी  regarded as 4.0 Ga ( billion years ago ) .
Other subdivisions reflect the evolution of life ; the Archean and Proterozoic are both eons ,  the palaeozoic , mesozoic  and Cenozoic are eras of the Phanerozoic eon .
The two million year Quaternary period , the time of recognizable  इंसानो , is too छोटी  to be visible at this scale .
The geologic time scale is a system of chronological measurement that relates stratigraphy to time , and is used by  geologists , paleontologists  , and other earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships between events that have occurred throughout Earth 's history .
The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees with the dates and nomenclature set forth by the International Commission on Stratigraphy standard color  कोड of the अंतरराष्ट्रीय आयोग on स्तरिकी  .
Evidence from radiometric dating indicates  कि the धरती  is about 4.54 billion years old .
The geology or deep time of Earth 's past has been  व्यवस्थित into विभिन्न  units according to events which took place in each period .
Different spans of time on  the gts हैं प्रायः सीमांकित by परिवर्तन in the संयोजन of strata जिससे correspond to उन्हें , indicating  major geological or paleontological events , such as mass extinctions .
For example , the boundary between the  cretaceous काल और the paleogene काल  is defined by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event , which marked the demise of the dinosaurs and many other groups of life .
Older time spans which predate the reliable  चट्टान रिकार्ड ( पहले the proterozoic  Eon ) are defined by absolute age .
The TI-82 is a  graphing परिपथ बना by टेक्सास यंत्र  .
The TI-82 was  designed in 1993 as a stripped bas ,  more user friendly version of the TI-85 , and as a replacement for the TI-81 .
It  थी the सीधा पूर्ववर्ती  of the TI-83 .
It  साझा साथ  the TI-85 a 6 MHz Zilog Z80 microprocessor .
Like the TI-81 , the TI-82 features a 96x64 pixel display , and the core feature set of the TI-81  साथ अनेक नई  features .
The cast of  वर्ण of the  King of Fighters XI .
The King of Fighters fighting  खेल श्रेणी , उत्पादित by snk playmore , शामिल a चौड़ी  cast of characters , some of which are taken from other SNK games .
The  स्टोरी takes प्लेस in a fictional  universe in which an annual series of 3-on-3 or 4-on-4 fighting tournaments are held .
The first game in the series introduces the initial main character of the series , Kyo  kusanagi , a यंग जापानी सेनानी जो is  the heir to a powerful group of martial artists having pyrokinetic abilities .
Kyo fights against the Kusanagi clan 's enemies , his rival Iori  yagami , और the परमेश्वर orochi और इसके इंसान अनुसरणकर्ता  , among others .
The first four games in the series revolve about these fights , while The King of Fighters '99  introduces a नई स्टोरी चाप , घूमती around k ' , a  young man who seeks to destroy the mysterious NESTS organization because they kidnapped him at an early age and stripped him of his past memories , so that they could force him to be a fighter under their control .
In The King of Fighters 2003 , a new character named Ash Crimson enters the tournament , to steal the powers of the clans who sealed the Orochi  in the पास्ट लिये an अनजान  reason .
A new group of antagonists , known as Those From the Past , also appears in the series ; they want  to  obtain Orochi 's power for the purpose of giving it to their unknown master .
the प्लाट और the  characters came from the Yamata no Orochi legend .
There are also several characters in the games that are parodies or homages to several popular  दुश्मनी , manga , और films  .
Merchandise based on the characters has also been  released , सहित  action figures and keychains .
The characters have garnered praise  इससे अनेक वीडियो खेल publications लिये the विशेषता of उनके  designs and movesets .
Comments focused on the lack of improvements in some of the characters , but  added कि the रोस्टर is greatly  diverse .
Whale Wars is a weekly American documentary-style  वास्तविकता टेलीविज़न श्रेणी कि premiered on नवम्बर 7 , 2008  on the Animal Planet cable channel .
The program follows Paul Watson , founder of the Sea  गड़रिये संरक्षण समाज , as he और the क्रू  aboard their various vessels harass Japanese whalers off the coast of Antarctica .
On January 5 , 2013 , Animal Planet renewed the series  लिये a छठे ऋतु  .
The Harpy Eagle ( Harpia  harpyja ) is a neotropical  species of eagle .
It is sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle to distinguish it from the Papuan Eagle which is sometimes known as the New Guinea  harpy त्रिभुज or पापुआई harpy त्रिभुज  .
It is the largest and most powerful raptor found in the Americas , and among  the largest extant प्रजाति  of eagles in the world .
It  प्रायः inhabits तीव्र lowland  rainforests in the upper ( emergent ) canopy layer .
Destruction of its natural habitat has seen it vanish from many parts of its former  दायरा , और it is nearly  extirpated in Central America .
biological वर्गीकरण  , or scientific classification in biology , is a method of scientific taxonomy used to group and categorize organisms into groups such as genus or species .
These groups are  ज्ञात as taxa (  singular : taxon ) .
आधुनिक biological  classification has its root in the work of Carolus Linnaeus , who grouped species according to shared physical characteristics .
These groupings  have चूंकि महरूम संशोधित to improve  consistency with the Darwinian principle of common descent .
With the introduction of the cladistic method in the late 20th century ,  phylogenetic taxonomy in जिससे जीवों हैं grouped आधारित purely on  inferred evolutionary relatedness , ignoring morphological similarity , has become common in some areas of biology .
Molecular phylogenetics , which uses DNA sequences as data , has also driven many recent revisions and is likely to  continue  doing so .
Biological  वर्गीकरण  belongs to the science of biological systematics .
लेनन 's  signature
John Winston Ono Lennon , ( born John Winston Lennon ; 9 October 1940 – 8 December 1980 ) was an English musician ,  सिंगर और songwriter जो रोज़ to विश्वव्यापी कीर्ति as a संस्थापक सदस्य of the बीटल्स , एक  of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed acts in the history of popular music .
With Paul McCartney , he formed one of the most  मनाये songwriting partnerships  of the 20th century .
Born and raised in Liverpool , as a teenager Lennon became involved in the  skiffle craze ; उसके पहला बैंड , the quarrymen , विकसित  into the Beatles in 1960 .
As the group disintegrated towards the end of the decade , Lennon embarked on a solo career that  उत्पादित the critically acclaimed एल्बम जॉन lennon/plastic ओनो  Band and Imagine , and iconic songs such as `` Give Peace a Chance `` and `` Imagine `` .
After his  विवाह to  Yoko Ono in 1969 , he changed his name to John Ono Lennon .
लेनन disengaged खुद इससे the म्यूज़िक  business in 1975 to devote time to raising his infant son Sean , but re-emerged with Ono in 1980 with the new album Double Fantasy .
He was murdered three  सप्ताह बाद  its release .
Lennon  नाज़िल a rebellious प्रकृति और acerbic  wit in his music , writing , drawings , on film and in interviews .
Controversial through his political and peace activism , he moved to New York City in 1971 ,  जहाँ उसके आलोचना of the  Vietnam War resulted in a lengthy attempt by Richard Nixon 's administration to deport him , while some of his songs were adopted as anthems by the anti-war movement .
As of 2012 , Lennon 's solo album sales in the United States exceed 14 million units , and as writer ,  co-writer or यजमान , he is जिम्मेदार  for 25 number-one singles on the US Hot 100 chart .
In 2002  , a बीबीसी पोल on the 100 महानतम britons voted उसे आठवीं , और in 2008 , रोलिंग स्टोन क्रमित उसे the fifth-greatest सिंगर of सब समय .
He was posthumously inducted into the Songwriters  हॉल of कीर्ति in 1987 और into the चट्टान और  Roll Hall of Fame in 1994 .
Statue of Rip van Winkle in Irvington , New York ,  नहीं दूर इससे `` sunnyside  `` , the home of Washington Irving
`` Rip Van Winkle '' is a short story by American author Washington Irving  प्रकाशित in  1819 , as well as the name of the story 's fictional protagonist .
Written while Irving was living in  बर्मिंघम , इंग्लैण्ड  , it was part of a collection entitled The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon .
Although the story is set in New York 's Catskill Mountains ,  इरविंग बाद  admitted , `` When I wrote the story , I had never been on the Catskills . ''
Throughout the fifty-five year history of the Grammy  पुरस्कार , अनेक significant रिकॉर्ड have  been set .
This page only includes the  प्रतिस्पर्धी पुरस्कार जीती by  various artists .
इस करता नहीं शामिल the विभिन्न खास  awards that are presented by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences such as Lifetime Achievement Awards , Trustees Awards , Technical Awards or Legend Awards .
The page however does include other non-performance related Grammys ( known as the Craft & Production Fields )  कि may have महरूम प्रस्तुत to  the artist ( s ) .
Pee-wee Herman  is a कॉमिक fictional  character created and portrayed by American comedian Paul Reubens .
He is best known for his two television series  और फिल्मी श्रेणी  during the 1980s .
The childlike Pee-wee Herman character developed as a stage act that  जल्दी led to an एचबीओ खास in 1981  .
As the stage performance gained further popularity , Reubens took the character to motion  चित्र साथ pee-wee  's Big Adventure in 1985 , toning down the adult innuendo for the appeal of children .
This paved the way for Pee-wee 's Playhouse , an Emmy Award  जीतना children 's श्रेणी कि भागा on  CBS from 1986-1991 .
Another film , Big Top  pee-wee , थी released  in 1988 .
Due to negative media attention following a scandal  in 1991 , reubens decided  to shelve his alter ego during the 1990s , and then gradually resurrected it during the following decade .
It was at that time  कि reubens addressed  plans to write a new Pee-wee film , Pee-wee 's Playhouse : The Movie .
In June 2007 , Reubens appeared as Pee-wee Herman for the first time since 1991  at स्पाइक tv 's यारों ' चुनाव पुरस्कार .
That '70s Show is an American television period sitcom that centers on the lives of a group of teenage friends living in the fictional suburban town of Point Place , Wisconsin , from May 17  ,  1976 , to December 31 , 1979 .
It debuted on the Fox television network , first  airing on अगस्त 23 , 1998 , कार्यशील लिये आठ  consecutive seasons , and concluding with the 200th episode on May 18 , 2006 .
The main teenage cast members were Topher Grace , Mila  kunis , एश्टन  Kutcher , Danny Masterson , Laura Prepon , and Wilmer Valderrama .
The main adult cast members were Debra Jo  rupp , kurtwood स्मिथ , डॉन स्टार्क और ,  during the first three seasons , Tanya Roberts .
Kansas ( ) is a U.S. state located in  the midwestern संयुक्त राज्य  .
It is named after the Kansas River which flows through it , which in turn was named after the  कंस देशी अमरीकी जनजाति , जिससे  inhabited the area .
The tribe 's name ( natively kką : ze ) is often said to  औसत `` लोगों of the  wind '' or `` people of the south wind , '' although this was probably not the term 's original meaning .
Residents of Kansas are called ``  kansans .  ''
For thousands of years what is now Kansas was home  to numerous और  diverse Native American tribes .
Tribes in the Eastern part of the state generally lived in villages  साथ the नदी घाटियों .
Tribes in the Western part of the state were semi-  nomadic और hunted विशाल herds of बाइसन  .
Kansas was first settled by European Americans in the 1830s , but the pace of settlement accelerated  in the 1850s , in the midst of राजनैतिक  wars over the slavery issue .
When officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854 ,  abolitionist free-staters इससे नई इंग्लैण्ड और pro-slavery settlers  from neighboring Missouri rushed to the territory to determine if Kansas would become a free state or a slave state .
Thus , the area was a hotbed of violence and chaos in its  जल्दी दिनों as ये शक्तियां collided , और थी  known as Bleeding Kansas .
The abolitionists  आखिरकार prevailed और on जनवरी 29 , 1861  , Kansas entered the Union as a free state .
After the Civil War , the population of Kansas grew rapidly , when waves  of आप्रवासियों turned the प्रेयरी  into farmland .
Today , Kansas is one of the most productive  agricultural राज्य  , producing high yields of wheat , sorghum and sunflowers .
Kansas is the 15th  सबसे extensive  and the 33rd most populous of the 50 United States .
Psychology is an academic and  लागू अनुशासन कि involves the वैज्ञानिक  study of mental functions and behaviors .
Psychology has the immediate goal of understanding individuals and groups by both establishing general  सिद्धान्त और researching विशिष्ट मामले  , and by many accounts it ultimately aims to benefit society .
In this field , a professional or researcher is called a psychologist and can be classified as a social , behavioral , or  संज्ञानात्मक वैज्ञानिक  .
Psychologists attempt to understand the role of mental  कृत्यों in व्यक्तिगत और सोशल बर्ताव , जबकि भी exploring  the physiological and neurobiological processes that underlie certain cognitive functions and behaviors .
Psychologists explore concepts such as perception , cognition , attention , emotion , phenomenology , motivation , brain  कामकाज , व्यक्तित्व , बर्ताव , और interpersonal  relationships .
Psychologists of diverse  धारियाँ भी consider  the unconscious mind .
Psychologists employ empirical methods to infer causal and  correlational संबंध  between psychosocial variables .
In addition , or in opposition , to employing  अनुभवजन्य और निगमनात्मक विधि  , some—especially clinical and counseling psychologists—at times rely upon symbolic interpretation and other inductive techniques .
Psychology has been described as a `` hub science '' , with psychological findings linking to research and perspectives from the social  sciences , प्राकृतिक  sciences , medicine , and the humanities , such as philosophy .
While psychological knowledge is often applied to the assessment and treatment of mental  स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं , it is भी निर्देशित towards समझना और solving समस्याएं in अनेक अलग  spheres of human activity .
The majority of psychologists are involved in  कुछ दयालु of therapeutic भूमिका  , practicing in clinical , counseling , or school settings .
Many do scientific research on a wide range of topics related to mental processes and behavior  , और typically कार्य in विश्वविद्यालयों मनोविज्ञान विभाग  or teach in other academic settings ( e.g. , medical schools , hospitals ) .
Some are employed in industrial and organizational  जमावट , or in अन्य क्षेत्रों ऐसे as इंसान विकास और वृद्धावस्था , खेल  , health , and the media , as well as in forensic investigation and other aspects of law .
Thomas  जेफरसन ( अप्रैल 13 , 1743 ( अप्रैल  2 , 1743 O.S. ) – July 4 , 1826 ) was an American Founding Father , the principal author of the Declaration of Independence ( 1776 ) and the third President of the United States ( 1801–1809 ) .
At the  शुरूआत of the अमरीकी क्रान्ति  , he served in the Continental Congress , representing Virginia and then served as a wartime Governor of Virginia ( 1779–1781 ) .
बस बाद the युद्ध ended ,  from mid-1784 Jefferson served as a diplomat , stationed in Paris .
In May 1785 , he became the United States Minister to  फ़्रांस .
जेफरसन थी  the first United States Secretary of State ( 1790–1793 ) serving under President George Washington .
With his close friend James Madison he organized the Democratic-Republican Party , and  subsequently resigned इससे  Washington 's cabinet .
Elected Vice President in 1796 , when he came in second to John Adams of the Federalists ,  जेफरसन opposed एडम्स और साथ मैडिसन secretly लिखा the केंटकी और वर्जिनिया  Resolutions , which attempted to nullify the Alien and Sedition Acts .
Elected president in what Jefferson called the  क्रान्ति of 1800 , he oversaw the खरीदें of the विशाल louisiana  Territory from France ( 1803 ) , and sent the Lewis and Clark Expedition ( 1804–1806 ) to explore the new west .
उसके दूसरी पद थी घिरा साथ परेशानियों  at home , such as the failed treason trial of his former Vice President Aaron Burr .
With escalating trouble with Britain who was challenging American neutrality and threatening shipping at sea , he tried economic warfare  साथ उसके embargo कानून जिससे तभी क्षतिग्रस्त अमरीकी व्यापार .
In 1803 , President Jefferson initiated a  प्रक्रम of भारतीय जनजातीय हटाना  and relocation to the Louisiana Territory west of the Mississippi River , in order to open lands for eventual American settlers .
A leader in the Enlightenment , Jefferson was a polymath  जो spoke पाँच भाषाएं धड़ल्ले और थी deeply दिलचस्पी in विज्ञान , आविष्कार  , architecture , religion and philosophy , interests that led him to the founding of the University of Virginia after his presidency .
He designed his own large mansion on a 5,000  एकड़ वृक्षारोपण निकट charlottesville , वर्जिनिया  , which he named Monticello .
While not a  notable orator , जेफरसन थी a skilled लेखक और corresponded  with many influential people in America and Europe throughout his adult life .
Though Jefferson owned many slaves , he opposed the institution all his life and consequently treated and took care of them very well and  अपेक्षित उन्हें to कार्य no अधिक than फ़्री  farmers .
Since 1802 historians and others have been divided over the controversy of whether  जेफरसन थी the पिता of एक or अधिक children belonging to सैली hemings  , a slave at Monticello . ''
Historians are also in disagreement with how much  जेफरसन थी वचनबद्ध to  the anti-slavery cause .
In 1807 , President  जेफरसन हस्ताक्षरित  into law a bill that banned the importation of slaves into the United States .
After Martha Jefferson , his wife of eleven years , died in 1782 , Jefferson remained a widower for the  बाकी of उसके जीवन ; उनके विवाह  produced six children , of whom two survived to adulthood .
Though Jefferson has been criticized by many modern day scholars over the  समस्या of गुलामी  , he remains rated as one of the greatest U.S. presidents .
`` Sun City '' is a 1985 protest song written by Steven Van Zandt , produced by Van Zandt and Arthur Baker and recorded by Artists United Against Apartheid to  convey विपक्ष to the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी नीति  of apartheid .
The primary means of that opposition is to declare that all the artists involved would refuse any and all offers to perform at Sun City , a resort which was located in Bantustan of Bophuthatswana , one of a number of internationally  अपरिचित supposed `` स्वतंत्र '' राज्य निर्मित by the दक्षिण अफ़्रीकी सरकारी to forcibly relocate इसके ब्लैक  population .
This page is a list of characters in the Police  अकादमी फिल्मी और  television series .
विधेयक रसेल  won 11 championships with the Boston Celtics .
This is a list of NBA players with most  championships जीती as a खिलाड़ी  .
The National Basketball  संघ ( एनबीए ) is a प्रमुख पेशेवर  basketball league in North America .
It was founded in 1946 as  the बास्केट  Association of America ( BAA ) .
The league  अपनाया इसके वर्तमान नाम at the प्रारंभ of the जब it  merged with the National Basketball League ( NBL ) .
The NBA Finals is  the चैंपियनशिप श्रेणी  for the NBA and the conclusion of the sport 's postseason .
The winning team of the  श्रेणी receives the  Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy .
Players  इससे the जीतना टोली प्रायः  receive championship rings from the team honoring their contribution .
However , in some rare occasion , the  टीमों opted to दिया अन्य commemorative  items , such as wrist watches , instead of rings .
The number of championships won by NBA  सुपरस्टार is प्रायः प्रयुक्त as a  measurement of their greatness .
Boston Celtics center Bill Russell holds the record for the most NBA  championships जीती साथ 11 शीर्षक दौरान उसके 13-year playing करियर  .
He won his first championship with the  बोस्टन सेल्टिक्स in उसके रुकी साल  .
Afterwards , he went on to win 10 championships in the next 12 years , including eight  लगातार championships इससे  1959 to 1966 .
he जीती the  last two championships in 1968 and 1969 as player-coach .
Russell 's teammate , Sam Jones , won 10 championships  इससे 1959 to 1969  , the second most in NBA history .
Four Celtics players , Tom Heinsohn , K. C. Jones , Satch Sanders and  जॉन havlicek , जीती  eight championships each .
दो अन्य सेल्टिक्स  , Jim Loscutoff and Frank Ramsey , won seven championships each .
Four  खिलाड़ी , bob cousy , kareem abdul-jabbar  , Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen , won six championships each .
Jordan and Pippen are members of the Chicago Bulls team who won three consecutive  championships twice in the  1990s .
Robert Horry and John Salley are the only players to have won the  championships साथ तीन अलग टीमों  .
Horry won seven championships with the Houston Rockets , the Los Angeles  लेकर्स और the सैन अंतोनियो स्पर्स , जबकि salley जीती चार championships  with the Detroit Pistons , the Bulls and the Lakers .
Frank Saul and Steve Kerr are the only  खिलाड़ी to जीत दो championships साथ दो अलग  teams in consecutive seasons .
Saul won consecutive championships with the Rochester Royals and the Minneapolis Lakers in the 1950s , while Kerr won  लगातार championships साथ the bulls और  the Spurs in the 1990s,
सटीकता indicates निकटता of मापन  results to the true value , precision to the repeatability , or reproducibility of the measurement
In the fields of science , engineering , industry , and statistics , the accuracy of a measurement system is the degree of closeness  of माप of a मात्रा to कि मात्रा 's वास्तविक  ( true ) value .
The precision of a  मापन प्रणाली , भी पुकारा reproducibility or repeatability  , is the degree to which repeated measurements under unchanged conditions show the same results .
Although the two words reproducibility and  repeatability can be synonymous in colloquial  use , they are deliberately contrasted in the context of the scientific method .
A measurement system can be accurate but not precise , precise but  नहीं सटीक , neither  , or both .
For example , if an experiment contains a systematic error , then increasing the sample size generally increases precision but does not improve  सटीकता .
The result would be a consistent yet inaccurate  स्ट्रिंग of परिणाम इससे the  flawed experiment .
Eliminating the systematic error improves  सटीकता लकिन करता नहीं  change precision .
A measurement system is  designated मान्य  if it is both accurate and precise .
Related terms include  पूर्वाग्रह ( non- यादृच्छिक or निर्देशित प्रभाव caused by a फ़ैक्टर  or factors unrelated to the independent variable ) and error ( random variability ) .
The terminology is also applied to indirect  measurements—that is , मान प्राप्त by a कम्प्यूटेशनल  procedure from observed data .
In addition to accuracy  और परिशुद्धता , माप may भी have a मापन  resolution , which is the smallest change in the underlying physical quantity that produces a response in the measurement .
In the case of full reproducibility , such as when rounding a number to a  representable फ्लोटिंग पाइंट क्रमांक  , the word precision has a meaning not related to reproducibility .
For example , in the IEEE 754-2008 standard it means the number of bits in the significand , so it  is प्रयुक्त as a माप लिये the सापेक्ष सटीकता साथ जिससे  an arbitrary number can be represented .
Fuck in its literal meaning refers to  the अधिनियम of यौन  intercourse .
It is an English word that is often used as a profanity ,  either to denote तिरस्कार or as an intensifier  .
the उत्पत्ति  of the word is obscure .
It is usually considered to be first attested to  around 1475 , लकिन it may be  considerably older .
In modern usage , fuck  और इसके डेरिवेटिव ( ऐसे as कमीने  and fucking ) can be used in the position of a noun , a verb , an adjective or an adverb .
There are many common phrases which make use of the  शब्द , as खूब as a क्रमांक  of compounds incorporating it , such as motherfucker .
Animated , color-coded map showing the various continents and  regions .
Depending on the convention and model , some continents may be consolidated or subdivided : for example , Eurasia is most often subdivided into Europe and Asia ( red shades ) , while North and South America  हैं sometimes पहचाना as एक अमरीकी महाद्वीप  ( green shades ) .
A continent is one  of अनेक  very large landmasses on Earth .
They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria , with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents—they are ( from largest in size to smallest ) : Asia , Africa , North America , South America , Antarctica , Europe , and  ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
In geology  , महाद्वीपों  are described by means of tectonic plates .
Plate  विवर्तनिकी is the प्रक्रम और पढ़ाई of the  movement , collision and division of continents , earlier known as continental drift .
Biker Boyz is a 2003  फिल्मी परिचय a समूह of भूमिगत  motorcycle drag racers .
It stars Laurence Fishburne , Djimon Hounsou , Derek  ल्यूक , meagan शुभ , और larenz  Tate and is written and directed by Reggie Rock Bythewood .
It also features Lisa Bonet ,  ऑरलैंडो जोन्स  , Kid Rock and Vanessa Bell Calloway .
For the  स्टील पैंथर  song , see Feel the Steel .
Community property is a marital property regime that  originated in सिविल विधि jurisdictions और is अभी भी मिला  in some common law jurisdictions .
The states of the United States that recognize community property  हैं primarily in the वेस्ट ; it थी  inherited from Mexico 's ganancial community system , which itself was inherited from Spanish law ( a Roman -derived civil law system ) and ultimately from the Visigoths .
While under Spanish rule Louisiana adopted the ganancial community system of acquests and gains , which replaced the traditional  फ्रेंच जातियाँ  of movables and acquests in its civil law system .
Map of the United States with  जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी  states highlighted in red .
In addition to the highlighted states , Alaska is a separate property state  कि permits युगल to ऑप्ट into  a community property arrangement .
in a जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी क्षेत्राधिकार , सबसे प्रॉपर्टी  acquired during the marriage ( except for gifts or inheritances ) —the community , or communio bonorum—is owned jointly by both spouses and is divided upon divorce , annulment or death .
Joint ownership is automatically presumed by law in the absence of specific evidence that would  पाइंट to a contrary निष्कर्ष लिये a particular टुकड़ा of प्रॉपर्टी  .
Division of community property may take place by item , by  splitting सब वस्तुएं or by मान .
In some jurisdictions , such as California , a 50/50 division of community property is strictly mandated by statute , meaning that the focus then shifts to whether  particular वस्तुएं हैं to be वर्गीकृत as  community or separate property .
In other jurisdictions , such as Texas , a divorce court may decree an `` equitable distribution `` of  जातियाँ प्रॉपर्टी , जिससे may परिणाम in an गैरबराबरी  division of such .
In  non-community प्रॉपर्टी  states property may be divided by equitable distribution .
Generally speaking , the property that each partner brings into the marriage or receives by gift , bequest or devise during  विवाह is पुकारा पृथक प्रॉपर्टी (  i.e. , not community property ) .
See  प्रभाग  of property .
प्रभाग  of community debts may not be the same as division of community property .
For example , in California , community property is required to be divided `` equally ''  जबकि जातियाँ कर्ज़ is जरूरी  to be divided `` equitably '' .
Property that is owned by one spouse  पहले the  marriage is the separate property of that spouse , unless the property is `` transmuted '' into community property .
The  नियम लिये इस vary इससे क्षेत्राधिकार  to jurisdiction .
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge waving to  the भीड at the मॉल shortly बाद  the wedding .
The wedding of Prince William , Duke of  कैम्ब्रिज , और कैथरीन मिडलटन took प्लेस on 29 अप्रैल 2011  at Westminster Abbey in London .
The groom , Prince William , Duke of  कैम्ब्रिज , is the ज्येष्ठ बेटे of चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स  , and is second in the line of succession to the British Throne and the thrones of fifteen other Commonwealth realms .
The bride , Catherine `` Kate '' Middleton is the eldest of three children of Michael and Carole Middleton of  bucklebury , बर्कशायर  .
The Dean of Westminster , John Hall , presided at the service ; the Archbishop of Canterbury , Rowan Williams , conducted the marriage ; Richard Chartres ,  the बिशप of लंदन , preached the उपदेश ; और a पढना  was given by the bride 's brother , James .
विलियम 's बेहतरीन man थी उसके  brother , Prince Harry , while the bride 's sister , Pippa , was maid of honour .
The ceremony was attended by the bride 's and groom 's families , as well as many foreign royals , diplomats ,  और the युगल 's चुनी  personal guests .
After the ceremony , the couple made the  परंपरागत रूप on the  balcony of Buckingham Palace .
As Prince William was not the heir apparent to the throne , the wedding was not a full state occasion and many details were left to the  युगल to decide , ऐसे as much of the अतिथि सूची of परिचय 1,900  .
Prince William and  केट मिडलटन  met in 2001 .
Their  सगाई on 20 अक्तूबर 2010  was announced on 16 November 2010 .
The build-up to the wedding and the occasion itself attracted much media attention , being compared in many ways with the 1981 marriage of  विलियम 's  parents .
The occasion was a public holiday in the United Kingdom and featured many ceremonial  पहलुओं , सहित उपयोग of the राज्य carriages  and roles for the Foot Guards and Household Cavalry .
Events were held around the Commonwealth to mark the wedding ; organisations and hotels held events across Canada , over 5,000 street parties were held throughout the United Kingdom , and one million people lined the route  between वेस्टमिंस्टर ऐबी और बकिंघम  Palace .
The ceremony was viewed live by tens of millions more around the world , including  72 लाख on the youtube royal चैनल  .
In the United Kingdom , television audiences peaked at 26.3  लाख दर्शक , साथ a कुल of 36.7 लाख  watching part of the coverage .
वैनेसा आनन्द lachey ( née minnillo  ; born November 9 , 1980 ) is an American television personality , television host , fashion model , and actress .
Minnillo was also named  मिस टीन यूएसए in 1998  .
She  रै महरूम a नई यॉर्क  -based correspondent for Entertainment Tonight and hosted Total Request Live on MTV .
A hand ( med . / lat . : manus , pl . manūs ) is a prehensile , multi- fingered extremity located at the end of an arm  or forelimb of primates और इंसानो , chimpanzees , बंदरों ,  and lemurs .
A few other  vertebrates ऐसे as the कोआला ( जिससे रै दो opposable thumbs  on each `` hand '' and fingerprints remarkably similar to human fingerprints ) are often described as having either `` hands '' or `` paws '' on their front limbs .
Hands are the main structures for physically manipulating  the पर्यावरण , प्रयुक्त लिये दोनो सकल मोटर कौशल ( ऐसे as grasping a विशाल ऑब्जेक्ट ) और ठीक मोटर कौशल ( ऐसे  as picking up a small pebble ) .
The fingertips contain some of the densest areas of nerve endings on the  देह , हैं the richest सोर्स of tactile प्रतिक्रिया  , and have the greatest positioning capability of the body ; thus the sense of touch is intimately associated with hands .
Like other paired organs ( eyes , feet , legs ) , each hand is dominantly controlled by the  opposing दिमाग गोलार्ध , so कि handedness , or the पसन्दीदा हाथ चुनाव  for single-handed activities such as writing with a pencil , reflects individual brain functioning .
Some evolutionary anatomists use the term hand to refer to the appendage of digits on the forelimb more generally — for example , in the context of whether the three digits of the bird hand  शामिल the वही समजात घाटा of दो अंक as in the डायनासोर हाथ  .
The human hand has 27 bones , not including the  sesamoid हड्डियों जिससे क्रमांक  varies between people .
14 of which are the phalanges ( proximal , intermediate and distal ) of the  उंगलियाँ .
The metacarpals are the bones  कि connects the  fingers and the wrist .
Each  इंसान हाथ रै 5  metacarpals and 8 carpal bones .
too कूल थी a पेशेवर कुश्ती टैग टोली  and former faction most notably active in World Wrestling Federation/Entertainment between 1998 and 2001 and for a short time in 2004 .
Basic  डिजिटल सचेतक क्लॉक  without a radio .
The mark in the top-left of the display  indicates कि the  time is 4:00pm , not 4:00am .
A 1969 radio alarm clock ( Sony Digimatic 8FC-59W )  साथ an जल्दी mechanical-digital  display .
A digital clock is a type of clock that displays the time digitally , i.e . in numerals or other symbols , as opposed to an  एनालॉग क्लॉक , जहाँ the समय is indicated by  the positions of rotating hands .
Digital clocks  हैं प्रायः संबद्ध साथ इलेक्ट्रॉनिक ड्राइव , लकिन the  `` digital '' description refers only to the display , not to the drive mechanism .
( Both analog and digital clocks  can be चलित either mechanically  or electronically , but `` clockwork '' mechanisms with digital displays are rare . )
The biggest digital clock is  the lichtzeitpegel ( `` लाइट समय स्तर  '' ) on the television tower Rheinturm Düsseldorf , Germany .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also provides the voices of Peter Griffin , Stewie  griffin , ब्रायन griffin , और ग्लेन कीचड़  .
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom  कि सुविधाएँ पाँच प्रमुख आवाज़ अभिनेताओं ,  and numerous regular cast and recurring guest stars .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex Borstein , Seth Green , Mila Kunis ( who replaced Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and  माइक हेनरी और अभी  , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West , John G. Brennan , Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly , and  repeat अतिथि सितारों शामिल फिलिस  Diller , Charles Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast members provide voices  लिये अनेक वर्ण  .
The voice actors , in  portraying the  various character personalities on the show , draw inspiration from celebrities and pop culture .
Family Guy characters have been played by more than one actor ,  बाद सदस्यों of the दिखाएँ बाएँ the  series or had conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and  an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन  Voice Acting in an Animated Television Production , though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series .
The five sets of the board  खेल एकाधिकार चित्रित यहाँ दिखाएँ the एवोल्यूशन of the  game 's artwork and designs in the United States from 1935–2005 .
The history of the  फलक खेल एकाधिकार can be traced  back to the early 20th century .
The earliest known design was by the American ,  एलिज़ाबेथ magie , patented in  1904 but existing as early as 1902 .
Magie 's original intent was to publish a board game to illustrate an economic principle , namely the Georgist concept of a  सिंगल जमीन मान  tax .
A series of board games were developed from 1906 through the 1930s that involved the buying and  selling of जमीन और the विकास  of that land .
By 1934 , a board game had been created much like the version of Monopoly sold by Parker Brothers and its related companies through  the बाकी of the 20th सदी  , and into the 21st .
Several  लोगों , ज़्यादातर in the midwestern संयुक्त राज्य और निकट  the East Coast , contributed to the game 's design and evolution .
By the 1970s , the idea that the game had been created solely by Charles Darrow had become popular folklore ; it was printed in  the खेल 's निर्देश लिये अनेक सालो , in a 1974 किताब devoted to एकाधिकार  , and was cited in a general book about toys even as recently as 2007 .
Even a guide to family games published for Reader 's Digest in  2003 तभी दिया क्रेडिट to darrow और एलिज़ाबेथ magie , erroneously  stating that Magie 's original game was created in the 1800s , and not acknowledging any of the game 's development between Magie 's creation of the game , and the eventual publication by Parker Brothers .
Also in the 1970s , Professor Ralph Anspach , who had himself published a board game intended to illustrate the principles  of दोनो monopolies और विश्वास busting , लड़ा पार्कर भाइयो  and its then parent company , General Mills , over the trademarks of the Monopoly board game .
through the शोध of anspach  and others , much of the early history of the game was `` rediscovered '' .
Anspach confronted Maxine Brady , author of the 1974 book The Monopoly Book : Strategy and Tactics of the World 's Most Popular Game over the actual history of the  खेल on  Barry Farber 's New York City talk show in 1975 .
Because of the lengthy court process , including appeals , the legal status of Parker  भाइयो ' trademarks on  the game was not settled until 1985 .
The game 's  नाम remains a पंजीकृत ट्रेडमार्क of पार्कर  Brothers , as do its specific design elements .
At the conclusion of the court case , the game 's logo and graphic design elements became part of a larger  एकाधिकार ब्रांड , licensed by पार्कर भाइयो ' जनक कंपनियाँ  onto a variety of items through the present day .
Despite the `` rediscovery '' of the board game 's early history in the 1970s and 1980s , and several books and journal articles on the subject , Hasbro ( Parker Brothers ' current parent  कम्पनी ) किया नहीं acknowledge कोई of the खेल 's इतिहास  before Charles Darrow on its official Monopoly website as recently as June 2012 .
Nor did Hasbro acknowledge anyone other than Darrow in materials  प्रकाशित or प्रायोजित by उन्हें  , at least as recently as 2006 .
International tournaments , first held in the early 1970s ,  continue to the उपस्थित , साथ the अगला संसार  championship likely scheduled for 2013 .
starting in 1985 , a नई पीढी of spin-off  board games and card games appeared on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean .
In 1989 , the  पहला of अनेक वीडियो खेल  and computer game editions was published .
Since 1994 , many official variants of the game , based on locations other than Atlantic City , New Jersey ( the official U.S. setting ) or London ( the official Commonwealth setting , excepting Canada )  , have महरूम प्रकाशित by हास्ब्रो  or its licensees .
In 2008  , हास्ब्रो permanently  changed the color scheme and some of the gameplay of the standard U.S . Edition of the game to match the UK Edition , although the U.S. standard edition maintains the Atlantic City property names .
Hasbro also modified the official logo to give the `` Mr .  एकाधिकार '' अक्षर a 3-d computer-generated dekh , जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम अपनाया  by licensees USAopoly , Winning Moves and Winning Solutions .
And Hasbro has also been including the  गति die , introduced in 2006 's एकाधिकार  : The Mega Edition by Winning Moves Games , in versions produced directly by Hasbro ( such as the 2009 Championship Edition ) .
In  बेसबॉल , a बलिदान  fly is a batted ball that satisfies four criteria:
There are  कम than दो outs  when the ball is hit .
the बॉल is hit  to the outfield ( fair or foul ) , or to infield foul territory .
The batter is put out because an outfielder ( or an infielder running in the outfield , or foul territory ) catches the ball on the fly ( alternatively if the batter would have  महरूम आउट if नहीं लिये an गलती or if the outfielder बूंदें the बॉल और another धावक  is put out ) .
A  धावक  who is already on base scores on the play .
It is called  a `` बलिदान  '' fly because the batter presumably intends to cause a teammate to score a run , while sacrificing his own ability to do so .
Minnesota ( )  is a u.S. राज्य  located in the Midwestern United States .
Minnesota was carved out of the eastern half of the Minnesota Territory and admitted  to the संघ as the 32nd राज्य on may 11 , 1858  .
Known as the `` Land of 10,000 Lakes '' , the state 's  नाम आता इससे a डकोटा  word for `` sky-tinted water '' .
Those waters , together with forests , parks , and wilderness areas , offer residents and tourists a  किस्में of बाहरी recreational अवसर  .
Minnesota is the 12th  सबसे extensive और  the 21st most populous of the U.S. states .
Nearly 60 % of its residents live in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul metropolitan area ( known  as the `` जुड़वा शहरों '' ) , the बीच of परिवहन , कारोबार , उद्योग  , education , government and home to an internationally known arts community .
The remainder of the state consists of western prairies now given over to intensive agriculture ; deciduous  वनों in the southeast , अभी साफ , farmed और settled ; और  the less populated North Woods , used for mining , forestry , and recreation .
Minnesota is known for its relatively mixed social and political orientations , and has a high  रेट of नागरिक भागीदारी और  voter turnout .
मिनेसोटा बाँधने among the healthiest  states , and has a highly literate population .
The large majority of  निवासियों हैं of scandinavian  and German descent .
The state is known as a center of  scandinavian अमरीकी संस्कृति  .
Ethnic diversity has increased  in हाल दशकों  .
Substantial influxes of Asian ,  अफ़्रीकी , और लैटिन अमरीकी आप्रवासियों  have joined the descendants of European settlers and the original Native American inhabitants .
Grants are non-repayable funds by one party ( grant  makers ) , प्रायः a सरकारी विभाग , निगम  , foundation or trust , to a , often ( but not always ) a nonprofit entity , educational institution , business or an individual .
In order to  प्राप्त  a grant , some form of `` Grant Writing '' often referred to as either a proposal or an application is usually required .
Most grants are made to fund a specific project and  आवश्यकता कुछ स्तर of अनुपालन  and reporting .
The grant writing process involves an applicant submitting a proposal ( or submission ) to a potential funder , either on the applicant 's  अपना पहल or in जवाब to a निवेदन  for Proposal from the funder .
Other grants can be given to individuals , such as victims  of प्राकृतिक  disasters or individuals who seek to open a small business .
Sometimes grant makers require grant seekers to have some form of  tax-exempt  status , be a registered nonprofit organization or a local government .
For example , tiered funding for a  फ्रीवे हैं बहुत  large grants negotiated at government policy level .
However smaller grants may be provided  by a सरकारी एजेंसी  ( e.g . municipal government ) .
Project-related funding involving governments , business , communities , and individuals is often arranged by application  either in लिखने  or online .
Naturally occurring cobalt ( Co ) is composed of 1 stable isotope , 59Co . 28 radioisotopes have been characterized with the  सबसे stable होने 60co साथ a half-life of 5.2714 सालो , 57co साथ a half-life  of 271.79 days , 56Co with a half-life of 77.27 days , and 58Co with a half-life of 70.86 days .
All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than  18 घंटों और the बहुमत of ये have  half-lives that are less than 1 second .
This element also has 11 meta states , all of which have  half-lives कम than 15  minutes .
The isotopes  of कोबाल्ट दायरा in परमाणु  weight from 47Co to 75Co .
The primary decay mode for isotopes with atomic mass unit values less than that of the most abundant stable isotope , 59Co , is  इलेक्ट्रॉन कैप्चर और the  primary mode of decay for those of greater than 59 atomic mass units is beta decay .
The primary  क्षय उत्पाद पहले 59co हैं आयरन  isotopes and the primary products after are nickel isotopes .
मानक परमाणु द्रव्यमान  : 58.933195 ( 5 ) u
Who  स्थानांतरित my चीज  ?
An  अद्भुत रास्ता to सौदे साथ बदलें  in Your Work and in Your Life , published in 1998 , is a motivational book by Spencer Johnson written in the style of a parable or business fable .
It describes change in one 's work and life , and four typical reactions to said change by two mice and two  `` littlepeople  '' , during their hunt for cheese .
A New York Times  कारोबार बेस्टसेलर  since release , Who Moved My Cheese ?
remained on the list for  लगभग पाँच सालो और खर्च over 200 सप्ताह on प्रकाशक  Weekly 's hardcover nonfiction list .
It has sold more than 26 million copies worldwide in  37 भाषाएं और remains to be एक of  the best-selling business books .
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev ( – September 11 , 1971 ) led  the सोवियत संघ दौरान  part of the Cold War .
He served as First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union from 1953 to 1964 , and as Chairman of the Council of Ministers , or Premier  , इससे 1958 to 1964 .
Khrushchev was responsible for the partial de-Stalinization  of the सोवियत संघ , लिये बैकिंग  the progress of the early Soviet space program , and for several relatively liberal reforms in areas of domestic policy .
Khrushchev 's party colleagues removed him from  शक्ति in 1964 , replacing  him with Leonid Brezhnev as First Secretary and Alexei Kosygin as Premier .
Khrushchev was born in the Russian village of Kalinovka in 1894  , बंद to the present-day किनारा between  Russia and Ukraine .
he थी employed as a metalworker  in his youth , and during the Russian Civil War was a political commissar .
With the help of Lazar Kaganovich , he worked his way up the  सोवियत पदानुक्रम  .
He supported Joseph  स्टालिन 's purges , और स्वीकृत  thousands of arrests .
In 1939 , Stalin sent him to govern Ukraine , and  he जारी  the purges there .
During what was known in the Soviet Union as the  ग्रेट patriotic युद्ध ( पूर्वी  Front of World War II ) , Khrushchev was again a commissar , serving as an intermediary between Stalin and his generals .
Khrushchev was present at the bloody defense of  stalingrad , a फैक्ट he took ग्रेट अभिमान  in throughout his life .
After  the युद्ध , he लौटे to युक्त  before being recalled to Moscow as one of Stalin 's close advisers .
In the power struggle triggered by Stalin 's death in 1953 ,  khrushchev , बाद  several years , emerged victorious .
On February 25 ,  1956 , at the 20th पार्टी कॉंग्रेस , he वितरित  the `` Secret Speech , '' denouncing Stalin 's purges and ushering in a less repressive era in the Soviet Union .
His domestic policies , aimed at bettering the lives of ordinary citizens , were often  अप्रभावी , विशेषकर in the क्षेत्रफल of कृषि  .
Hoping eventually to rely on missiles for national defense , Khrushchev ordered  प्रमुख कटौती in conventional शक्तियां  .
Despite the cuts , Khrushchev 's rule  देखी the tensest सालो of the ठंडा युद्ध , culminating  in the Cuban Missile Crisis .
Some of Khrushchev 's  नीतियों  were seen as erratic , particularly by his emerging rivals , who quietly rose in strength and deposed him in October 1964 .
He did not suffer the deadly fate of  कुछ पिछला losers of सोवियत शक्ति struggles  , but was pensioned off with an apartment in Moscow and a dacha in the countryside .
His lengthy memoirs  यहूद smuggled  to the West and published in part in 1970 .
Khrushchev died in 1971 of  दिल  disease .
Upper gastrointestinal  ( gi ) bleeding refers  to hemorrhage in the upper gastrointestinal tract .
The anatomic cut-off for upper GI bleeding is the  स्नायु of treitz , जिससे connects the चौथी portion  of the duodenum to the diaphragm near the splenic flexure of the colon .
Upper GI bleeds are  माना चिकित्सा emergencies ,  and require admission to hospital for urgent diagnosis and management .
Due to advances in medications and endoscopy , upper GI hemorrhage is  अभी प्रायः treated बगैर सर्जरी  .
World population estimates from 1800 to 2100 , based on UN 2010 projections  ( रेड , नारंगी , ग्रीन ) और us जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो ऐतिहासिक  estimates ( black ) .
Actual recorded population figures  हैं in ब्लू .
According to the highest estimate , the world population may rise to 16 billion by 2100  ; according to the न्यूनतम अनुमान , it  may decline to 6 billion .
The world population is the total number of  जीना इंसानो on धरती  .
As of today , it is estimated to number billion by  the संयुक्त राज्य जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो  ( USCB ) .
The USCB estimates that the world population  exceeded 7 अरब  on March 12 , 2012 .
According to a separate estimate by  the संयुक्त राष्ट्र जनसांख्यिकी  Fund , it reached this milestone on October 31 , 2011 .
The world population has experienced continuous growth since  the समाप्त of the ग्रेट अकाल और the ब्लैक  Death in 1350 , when it stood at around 370 million .
The highest rates of growth –  वैश्विक जनसांख्यिकी increases ऊपर  1.8 % per year – were seen briefly during the 1950s , and for a longer period during the 1960s and 1970s .
The growth rate peaked at 2.2  % in 1963 , और  had declined to 1.1 % by 2011 .
Total annual births were  उच्चतम in the लेट 1980s at परिचय 138 लाख , और हैं अभी अपेक्षित to remain essentially  constant at their 2011 level of 134 million , while deaths number 56 million per year , and are expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040 .
Current projections show a continued increase in population in the near future ( but  a स्थिर मनाही in the जनसांख्यिकी विकास रेट ) , साथ the  global population expected to reach between 7.5 and 10.5 billion by 2050 .
Various  longer-term estimates भविष्यवाणी further  growth , stagnation , or even overall decline in the global population by 2150 .
Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth ,  citing the growing pressures on the  environment , global food supplies , and energy resources .
Philips  lumileds lighting कम्पनी is  the manufacturer of a wide range of high-power/high-efficiency light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ) .
It is a now a  fully स्वामित्व प्रभाग  of Philips Lighting .
Knuckle mnemonic for the number of days in each month of  the gregorian  Calendar .
Each projecting  knuckle represents  a 31-day month .
A mnemonic ( , with a silent `` m '' ) , or mnemonic device , is any learning technique that  एड्स सूचना स्तंभन  .
Mnemonics aim to  अनुवाद सूचना  into a form that the human brain can retain better than its original form .
Even the process of applying this conversion might already aid the transfer of  सूचना to long-term  memory .
Commonly encountered mnemonics are often for lists and in auditory form , such as short poems , acronyms , or memorable phrases , but mnemonics can also be for other types  of सूचना और in विज़ुअल or kinesthetic  forms .
Their  उपयोग is आधारित on the अवलोकन कि the इंसान दिमाग अधिक easily  remembers spatial , personal , surprising , physical , sexual , humorous , or otherwise 'relatable ' information , rather than more abstract or impersonal forms of information .
The word mnemonic is  निकला इससे  the Ancient Greek word μνημονικός ( mnēmonikos ) , meaning `` of memory '' and is related to Mnemosyne ( `` remembrance '' ) , the name of the goddess of memory in Greek mythology .
Both of these words are derived from μνήμη ( mnēmē )  , `` स्मरण  , memory '' .
Mnemonics in antiquity were most often  माना in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of  what is today known as the Art of memory .
Ancient Greeks and Romans distinguished between two types  of मेमोरी : the 'natural ' मेमोरी  and the 'artificial ' memory .
The former  is inborn , और is the एक कि everyone  uses automatically and without thinking .
The artificial memory in contrast has to be  प्रशिक्षित और विकसित through  the learning and practicing of a variety of mnemonic techniques .
Mnemonic systems are special techniques or strategies consciously used to improve   memory , it helps employ information already stored in long-term memory to make memorization an easier task .
President Bush signing the No Child Left  पीछे अधिनियम at हैमिल्टन  H.S . in Hamilton , Ohio .
The No Child Left  पीछे अधिनियम of 2001 ( nclb ) is a संयुक्त राज्य अधिनियम of कॉंग्रेस कि is a reauthorization of the elementary  and Secondary Education Act , which included Title I , the government 's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students .
NCLB supports standards-based education reform based on the  आधार कि सेटिंग ऊँची  standards and establishing measurable goals can improve individual outcomes in education .
The Act requires states   to develop assessments in basic skills .
States must give these assessments to all students at select grade  स्तर in अनुक्रम  to receive federal school funding .
The Act does not assert a national achievement standard ;  मानकों हैं नियत by प्रत्येक  individual state .
NCLB expanded  the संघीय भूमिका in पब्लिक शिक्षा  through annual testing , annual academic progress , report cards , teacher qualifications , and funding changes .
The bill passed in  the u.S. कॉंग्रेस साथ bipartisan support  .
Dodge B Series utility  circa 1950 , चलित by अल्बर्ट  Namatjira
A pickup truck or  pick-up  , often simply referred to as a pickup , is a light motor vehicle with an open-top , rear cargo area ( bed ) .
in उत्तर अमेरिका , the पद पिकअप is प्रयुक्त  for light trucks with a lighter duty chassis and factory built , integrated bed , as well as for coupé utility vehicles , often based on a personal car chassis , but also often on a special dedicated chassi for such use .
Some countries have their own terms similar  to पिकअप , ऐसे  as ute in Australia and New Zealand , or bakkie in South Africa .
Large  पिकअप ट्रक हैं  somewhat rare in Europe , where vans and light lorries are commonly used for similar roles .
This 15th-century  चित्रण  of Charlemagne and Pope Adrian I shows a well-bred medieval horse with arched neck , refined head and elegant gait .
Horses in the Middle Ages differed  in आकार , निर्माण और नस्ल इससे  the modern horse , and were , on average , smaller .
They were also more  सेंट्रल to समाज  than their modern counterparts , being essential for war , agriculture , and transport .
नतीजतन , विशिष्ट  types of horse developed , many of which have no modern equivalent .
While an understanding of modern horse breeds and  equestrianism is vital लिये कोई विश्लेषण of the मध्यकालीन घोड़ा , शोधकर्ताओं  also need to consider documentary ( both written and pictorial ) and archaeological evidence .
Horses in the Middle Ages were  rarely differentiated by नस्ल  , but rather by use .
This led them to be  वर्णित , लिये उदाहरण , as `` chargers ``  ( war horses ) , `` palfreys `` ( riding horses ) , cart horses or packhorses .
Reference is also given to their place of origin , such as `` Spanish horses , '' but whether this  referred to एक नस्ल or अनेक  is unknown .
Another difficulty arising during any study of medieval  दस्तावेज़ or साहित्य is the लचीलापन of the  medieval languages , where several words can be used for one thing ( or , conversely , several objects are referred to by one word ) .
Words such as ' courser ' and 'charger ' are used interchangeably ( even within  एक दस्तावेज़ ) , और जहाँ एक  epic may speak disparagingly of a rouncey , another praises its skill and swiftness .
Significant technological advances in equestrian equipment , often  introduced इससे अन्य संस्कृतियों , अनुमत  for significant changes in both warfare and agriculture .
In particular , improved designs for the solid-treed saddle as well as the arrival of the stirrup , horseshoe and horse collar were significant advances in  मध्यकालीन  society .
Consequently , the assumptions and theories developed by  इतिहासकारों हैं नहीं निर्णायक , और बहस स्टिल rages on अनेक मुद्दे , ऐसे as the प्रजनन  or size of the horse , and a number of sources must be consulted in order to understand the breadth of the subject .
The Music Man is a musical with book , music  , और गीत by मेरेडिथ willson , आधारित on a स्टोरी by willson  and Franklin Lacey .
The plot concerns con man Harold Hill , who poses as a boys '  बैंड आयोजक और नेता और बिकता बैंड  instruments and uniforms to naive townsfolk before skipping town with the cash .
In River City , Iowa , prim librarian and piano teacher Marian Paroo sees through him , but when Hill helps her younger brother overcome his fear of social interactions due  to उसके लिस्प , marian begins to पतन in प्रेम साथ  Harold .
Harold , in turn falling for Marian ,  risks होने caught  to win her .
In 1957 , the  दिखाएँ  became a hit on Broadway , winning five Tony Awards , including Best Musical , and running for 1,375 performances .
The cast album won the first Grammy Award for `` Best  असली डाल एल्बम '' और थी क्रमांक एक on the  Billboard charts for 245 weeks .
The show 's success led to revivals and a popular 1962 film adaptation  और a 2003 टेलीविज़न  remake .
It frequently is produced by both  पेशेवर  and amateur theater companies .
निरीक्षक  's wheel
A surveyor  's व्हील , भी पुकारा a clickwheel , hodometer  , waywiser , trundle wheel , measuring wheel , or perambulator is a device for measuring distance .
Largest  non-polar रेगिस्तान
Sand dunes in the Rub ' al Khali  ( `` खाली क्वार्टर  '' ) of Saudi Arabia .
Makhtesh Ramon , Negev  मरुस्थल , इसराईल
A  मरुस्थल is a लैंडस्केप or प्रदेश of जमीन कि is बहुत शुष्क क्युकी of कम वर्षा amounts (  precipitation ) , often has little coverage by plants , and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside areas .
Deserts can also be described as areas where  अधिक जल is  lost by evapotranspiration than falls as precipitation .
Desert plants must  have खास adaptations  to survive with this little water .
Deserts generally receive less than 25 cm of rain  ( वर्षण ) प्रत्येक  year .
Semideserts or  steppes हैं regions  which receive between and .
In the Köppen climate classification system , deserts are  classed as bwh ( hot मरुस्थल )  or BWk ( temperate desert ) .
In the Thornthwaite climate classification system ,  रेगिस्तान होता be वर्गीकृत as arid megathermal  climates .
World War I ( WWI ) was a global war centred in Europe that began on 28 July  1914 और lasted जबतक 11 नवम्बर  1918 .
It was predominantly called the World War or the Great  युद्ध इससे इसके  occurrence until the start of World War II in 1939 , and the First World War or World War I thereafter .
It involved all the world 's great powers , which were assembled in two opposing alliances : the Allies ( based on the  ट्रिपल entente of the संयुक्त किंगडम , फ़्रांस और रूस ) और the सेंट्रल शक्तियां ( originally  the Triple Alliance of Germany , Austria-Hungary and Italy ; but , as Austria–Hungary had taken the offensive against the agreement , Italy did not enter into the war ) .
These alliances were both reorganised and expanded as more nations entered the war : Italy , Japan and the United  राज्य joined the allies  , and the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria the Central Powers .
Ultimately , more  than 70 लाख सैन्य  personnel , including 60 million Europeans , were mobilised in one of the largest wars in history .
More than 9 million combatants were killed , largely because of  technological advancements कि led to विशाल increases  in the lethality of weapons without corresponding improvements in protection or mobility .
It was the fifth- deadliest conflict in world history , subsequently paving the way for various political changes ,  ऐसे as revolutions in अनेक of the राष्ट्र  involved .
One of the long-term causes of the war was the resurgence of imperialism in  the विदेशी नीतियों of the ग्रेट शक्तियां of यूरोपीय  .
More immediately , the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria , the heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary , on 28  जून 1914 by यूगोस्लाव राष्ट्रवादी gavrilo princip in साराजेवो triggered a राजनयिक संकट  when Austria-Hungary subsequently delivered an ultimatum to the Kingdom of Serbia .
Several alliances formed  over the पिछला दशकों  were invoked .
Within weeks , the major  शक्तियां यहूद at युद्ध और , via उनके colonies  , the conflict soon spread around the world .
On 28 July , the Austro-Hungarians fired the first shots of the war as preparation for  the आक्रमण of सर्बिया  .
While the Russians mobilised , the Germans invaded neutral Belgium  और ध्वज  on the way to France , providing a casus belli for Britain 's declaration of war against Germany .
After the German march on Paris was brought to a halt—the so-called Miracle of the Marne —the Western Front settled into a static battle  of अपघर्षण साथ a गर्त लकीर कि बदला छोटी जबतक  1917 .
On the Eastern Front , the Russian army was successful against the Austro-Hungarians , but was  रोका in इसके आक्रमण  of East Prussia by the Germans .
In November the Ottoman Empire  joined the युद्ध , खोलने up fronts  in the Caucasus , Mesopotamia and the Sinai .
Italy and Bulgaria went to war in 1915  और रोमानिया  in 1916 .
In Russia , the tsar 's  सरकारी collapsed in  March 1917 and a subsequent revolution in November brought the Russians to terms with the Central Powers .
After a 1918 German offensive along the  पश्चिमी सामने , the allies drove  back the Germans in a series of successful offensives and American forces began entering the trenches .
जर्मनी , जिससे था इसके अपना ट्रबल  with revolutionaries , agreed to an armistice on 11 November 1918 .
The war ended in  विजय लिये the allies  .
Events on the home fronts were as  उग्र as on the बैटल fronts , as the  participants tried to mobilize their manpower and economic resources to fight a total war .
By  the समाप्त of the युद्ध , चार प्रमुख इम्पीरियल powers—the  German , Russian , Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman empires—ceased to exist .
The successor states of the former two  खोया a ग्रेट राशि of territory ,  while the latter two were dismantled entirely .
The map of central Europe was  redrawn into अनेक  smaller states .
The  लीग of राष्ट्र थी formed  in the hope of preventing another such conflict .
The European nationalism spawned by the war and the breakup of empires , the repercussions  of जर्मनी 's शिकस्त और समस्याएं साथ the सन्धि of versailles हैं सहमत to be  factors contributing to World War II .
`` Girls  बस want to have  Fun '' is a 1979 song originally written by Robert Hazard and made famous by singer Cyndi Lauper .
It was the first  प्रमुख सिंगल released by lauper as a सोलो कलाकार  and the lead-off single from her debut album She 's So Unusual .
Lauper’s  संस्करण gained मान्यता as a  feminist anthem and promoted by an award-winning video .
It has been covered on either an album  or in सजीव कॉन्सर्ट  by over 30 other artists .
The single was Lauper 's  भेदन hit , reaching  # 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 and becoming a worldwide hit throughout late 1983 and early 1984 .
It remains one of Lauper  's हस्ताक्षर गीतों और थी a widely लोकप्रिय सोंग  during the era of its release , the 1980s .
The `` Rolling Stone & MTV : '100 Greatest Pop Songs ' : 1-50 '' , `` Rolling  स्टोन : `` the 100 शीर्ष म्यूज़िक वीडियो '' '' और the  `` VH1 : 100 Greatest Videos '' lists ranked the song at # 22 , # 39 and # 45 , respectively .
The song  प्राप्त a ग्रैमी  Award nomination for Record of the Year and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance .
View of  defibrillator एलेक्ट्रोड  position and placement .
Defibrillation is a common  उपचार लिये life-threatening हृदय dysrhythmias  , ventricular fibrillation , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
Defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic dose of electrical energy  to the प्रभावित दिल साथ a यंत्र  called a defibrillator .
This depolarizes a critical mass of the  दिल मांसपेशी , terminates the dysrhythmia , और  allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural pacemaker , in the sinoatrial node of the heart .
Defibrillators can be external , transvenous , or implanted ,  depending on the प्रकार  of device used or needed .
Some external units , known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ) , automate the diagnosis of treatable rhythms , meaning that lay responders or bystanders are able to use them successfully with little , or in some  मामले no प्रशिक्षण  at all .
The Cato Institute is an American libertarian think tank  headquartered in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
It was founded as  the चार्ल्स koch न्यास in 1974 by मरे rothbard , ed  Crane and Charles Koch , chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the conglomerate Koch Industries , Inc. .
In July 1976 , the  नाम थी बदला  to the Cato Institute .
According to the 2011 Global Go To Think Tank Index , Cato  is the 6th सबसे influential  US based think tank , ranking 3rd in Economic Policy and 2nd in Social Policy .
The Institute 's stated mission is `` to increase the understanding of public policies based on the principles of limited government , free  बाज़ार , व्यक्तिगत स्वतंत्रता , और  peace .
The Institute will use the most effective means to  originate , एडवोकेट , प्रचार , और disseminate  applicable policy proposals that create free , open , and civil societies in the United States and throughout the world . ''
Cato scholars  यहूद नाजुक of जार्ज W. बुश 's रिपब्लिकन प्रशासन  ( 2001–2009 ) on several issues , including the Iraq War , civil liberties , education , agriculture , energy policy , and excessive government spending .
On other issues , they supported Bush  प्रशासन पहलों , सबसे notably  health care , Social Security , global warming , tax policy , and immigration .
During the 2008 U.S. presidential election , Cato  विद्वानों criticized दोनो major-party उम्मीदवार  , John McCain and Barack Obama .
Cato has criticized President Obama 's stances on policy issues since his inauguration , such as fiscal stimulus , healthcare reform , foreign policy ,  और the युद्ध on दवाएँ , जबकि supporting  his stance on the repeal of Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell and liberal immigration policy .
Dracula is an 1897 Gothic horror novel by  आयरिश लेखक  Bram Stoker .
Famous for introducing the character of the vampire Count Dracula , the novel tells the story of Dracula 's attempt to relocate from Transylvania to England , and the battle between Dracula and a  छोटी समूह of मेन और महिलाओं led by प्राध्यापक अब्राहम  Van Helsing .
Dracula has been assigned to many literary genres including vampire  साहित्य , हॉरर fiction , the गोथिक  novel and invasion literature .
The novel touches on themes such as the role of women in  विक्टोरियन संस्कृति , यौन  conventions , immigration , colonialism , and post-colonialism .
Although Stoker did not invent the vampire , he defined its modern form , and the novel has spawned numerous theatrical , film and  टेलीविज़न interpretations  .
Quidditch is a competitive sport in the wizarding world of the Harry Potter universe ,  और is इससे the श्रेणी of children 's novels  and movies .
It  is an अत्यधिक अशिष्ट लकिन बहुत  popular semi-contact sport , played by wizards and witches .
Matches are played between two teams of seven players riding flying broomsticks , using four balls and six elevated ring-shaped goals ,  तीन on प्रत्येक पक्ष of the quidditch पिच  ( field ) .
In the Harry Potter universe ,  quidditch holds a fervent following समान  to the position that association football holds as a globally popular sport .
The sport is monumental throughout  the wizarding  world .
Harry plays an important position for his house team at Hogwarts : he is the seeker and becomes the captain  in उसके छठे साल वहीँ  .
Regional and  अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिताओं  are mentioned throughout the series .
In Goblet of Fire ,  quidditch at हॉग्वार्ट्स  is cancelled for the Tri-Wizard Tournament , but Harry and the Weasleys attend the Quidditch World Cup .
In addition , Harry uses his Quidditch skills to capture a golden egg from a dragon called the  हंगेरियाई horntail ( in the पहला कार्य of the tri-wizard टूर्नामेंट ) , to कैप्चर a उड़ती कुंजी in पारस 's स्टोन , और on दो कुंजी अवसरों  in Deathly Hallows — getting hold of Ravenclaw 's Diadem , and during the final fight with Voldemort — the `` unerring skill of the Seeker '' is useful to him in snatching the Elder Wand out of the air .
हैरी कुम्हार रै स्वामित्व दो broomsticks , the  Nimbus 2000 and the Firebolt , both of which are destroyed by the series ' end .
the खेल रै महरूम  adopted in the real world in the form of Muggle Quidditch .
The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the United States consisting of two  घरों : the निम्नतर हाउस ज्ञात as the  House of Representatives and the upper house known as the Senate .
Congress meets in  the कैपिटल in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Both representatives and senators  हैं चुनी through  direct election .
Congress has a total of 535 voting members : 435  सदस्यों in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  and 100 members in the Senate .
Members of the House of Representatives serve two-year terms representing the  लोगों of a ज़िला  .
Congressional districts are apportioned to states by population using the United States Census results , each state in the union having at least one  प्रतिनिधि in the हाउस  of Representatives .
Regardless of population  , प्रत्येक of the 50 राज्य रै दो  senators ; the 100 senators each serve a six-year term .
the शर्तें हैं लड़खड़ाते so प्रत्येक दो  years approximately one-third of the Senate is up for election .
Each staggered group of  one-third of the सीनेटरों  are called 'classes ' .
No state of the United States has  दो सीनेटरों इससे the  same class .
Most  incumbents तलाश re-election  , and their historical likelihood of winning subsequent elections exceeds 90 percent .
In August 2012  ,  a Gallup poll reported that Congress’s approval rating amongst Americans was at 10 % , matching a 38-year low reached in November 2011 .
`` A Little More Country Than That '' is the title of a song written by Joey + Rory 's Rory Lee Feek , Wynn  varble , और डॉन poythress , और  recorded by American country artist Easton Corbin .
it थी released in अगस्त 2009  as Corbin 's debut single and is included on his self-titled debut album .
In April 2010 , the song reached  क्रमांक एक on the देश म्यूज़िक चार्ट , बनाना कोर्बिन  the first male solo artist in seven years to send a debut single to Number One .
It has been certified  सुनहरा by the  RIAA .
The BlackBerry is a line of wireless handheld devices and services designed and marketed by Research In Motion Limited ( RIM )  ऑपरेटिंग as ब्लैकबेरी  .
The first BlackBerry device , an email pager , was released in 1999 ; the most recent BlackBerry devices , the Z10 and Q10 , were announced on January   30 , 2013 .
The user interface varies by model ; most  विशेषता a शारीरिक क्वर्टी कुंजीपटल , जबकि नए पीढियां have relied on  a multi-touch screen and virtual keyboard .
A BlackBerry can shoot video , take photos , play music , and perform online  कृत्यों ऐसे as web-browsing और emailing  .
They can also send and receive push email and instant messages while maintaining a high level of security through on-device  संदेश एन्क्रिप्शन , और हैं designed to फलन as निजी  digital assistants .
BlackBerry devices  support a विशाल किस्में of तत्काल  messaging features , with the most popular being the proprietary BlackBerry Messenger service .
The BlackBerry PlayBook is  a टैब्लेट कंप्यूटर  offered by the company .
The 100 millionth BlackBerry smartphone was shipped in June quarter of 2010  और the 200 millionth स्मार्टफोन  was shipped in September quarter of 2012 .
BlackBerry accounts for 3 % of mobile device sales worldwide in 2011 , making its manufacturer the sixth most popular device  मेकर ( 25 % of मोबाईल यंत्र बिक्री हैं स्मार्टफ़ोन  ) .
The consumer BlackBerry Internet Service is  उपलब्धियाँ in 91 देशों  worldwide on over 500 mobile service operators using various mobile technologies .
As of September 2012 , there were eighty  लाख सदस्य विश्वव्यापी  to BlackBerry .
In 2011 the Caribbean and Latin America had the highest penetrations of BlackBerry smartphones  विश्वव्यापी , साथ up to परिचय 45 प्रति cent in the  region having a RIM device .
BlackBerry , iPhone , Android , and  खिड़कियाँ फोन हैं माना  the four major smartphone brands .
BlackBerry is widely referred to as `` CrackBerry '' in the United States , which alludes to its excessive  उपयोग by इसके स्वामी और is a सन्दर्भ to the addictiveness of  crack cocaine .
Use of the term CrackBerry became so  फैली कि in नवम्बर 2006 वेबस्टर 's नई  World College Dictionary named `` crackberry '' the `` New Word of the Year . ''
An  उदाहरण of a  demand curve shifting .
The shift from D1 To D2 means an increase  in माँग साथ consequences  for the other variables
In economics , the demand curve is the graph  depicting the संबंध  between the price of a certain commodity and the amount of it that consumers are willing and able to purchase at that given price .
It is a graphic  प्रतिनिधित्व of a  demand schedule .
The demand curve for all consumers together follows  इससे the माँग वक्र of प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत उपभोक्ता :  the individual demands at each price are added together .
Demand curves are used to estimate behaviors in competitive markets , and are often combined with supply curves to estimate  the संतुलन दाम ( the दाम at जिससे विक्रेता साथ हैं willing to बेचें the वही राशि as  buyers together are willing to buy , also known as market clearing price ) and the equilibrium quantity ( the amount of that good or service that will be produced and bought without surplus/excess supply or shortage/excess demand ) of that market .
In a monopolistic market , the demand curve facing the monopolist is simply  the मार्केट माँग वक्र  .
historia
by  nikolaos gysis  ( 1892 )
History ( from Greek - historia , meaning `` inquiry , knowledge acquired by investigation '' ) is an umbrella term that relates to  पास्ट कार्यक्रम as खूब as the  discovery , collection , organization , and presentation of information about these events .
The term includes cosmic , geologic , and organic history , but is often  generically implied to औसत इंसान  history .
Scholars who write about  इतिहास हैं  called historians .
History can also refer to the academic discipline which uses a narrative to examine and analyse a sequence of past events , and  objectively determine the  patterns of cause and effect that determine them .
Historians sometimes debate  the प्रकृति of इतिहास  and its usefulness by discussing the study of the discipline as an end in itself and as a way of providing `` perspective '' on the problems of the present .
Stories common to a particular culture , but not supported by external sources ( such as  the किस्से surrounding किंग आर्थर ) हैं प्रायः वर्गीकृत as सांस्कृतिक विरासत  or legends , because they do not support the `` disinterested investigation '' required of the discipline of history .
कार्यक्रम occurring prior to लिखा  record are considered prehistory .
Herodotus , a 5th century B.C . Greek historian is considered within the Western tradition to be the `` father of history '' , and  , साथ साथ उसके समकालीन  Thucydides , helped form the foundations for the modern study of human history .
Their work continues to be read today and the divide between the culture-focused Herodotus  और the military-focused thucydides remains  a point of contention or approach in modern historical writing .
In the Eastern tradition , a state chronicle the Spring and Autumn Annals was known to be compiled  इससे as जल्दी as 722 bce  although only 2nd century BCE texts survived .
Ancient  प्रभाव have helped spawn रूपांतर interpretations  of the nature of history which have evolved over the centuries and continue to change today .
The modern study of history is wide-ranging , and includes the  पढ़ाई of विशिष्ट regions और the पढ़ाई of निश्चित topical  or thematical elements of historical investigation .
Often history is taught as part of  प्राथमिक और द्वितीयक शिक्षा , और  the academic study of history is a major discipline in University studies .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz ( ) , was an African-American Muslim  मंत्री और इंसान अधिकारों  activist .
To his  admirers , he थी a साहसी एडवोकेट लिये the अधिकारों  of blacks , a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans .
Detractors accused him of preaching  जातिवाद , ब्लैक सर्वोच्चता ,  and violence .
He has  महरूम पुकारा एक of  the greatest and most influential African Americans in history .
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by  श्वेत supremacists , it थी rumored—when  he was young , and at least one of his uncles was lynched .
When he  थी 13 , उसके माँ थी लगाई  in a mental hospital , and he was placed in a series of foster homes .
In 1946 , at age 20 , he went  to थाना लिये तोड़कर  and entering .
In prison ,  मैल्कम x became a सदस्य of the  Nation of Islam ; after his parole in 1952 , he quickly rose to become one of its leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm X was the public face of the controversial group , but disillusionment with Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led  उसे to छोड़ the स्वदेश in कूच 1964  .
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East , he returned to the United States , where he founded Muslim Mosque , Inc. and the  संगठन  of Afro-American Unity .
In February 1965 , less than a year  बाद leaving the स्वदेश of islam , he  was assassinated by three members of the group .
Malcolm X 's expressed  मान्यताओं बदला  substantially over time .
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black supremacy and advocated separation of black and white Americans —in contrast to the  सिविल अधिकारों गति 's जोर  on integration .
After breaking with the Nation of Islam  in 1964—saying of उसके संघ साथ it , ``  I did many things as a [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now .
I was a zombie then ... pointed in a certain direction and  बताई to कूच '' —and बनने a सुन्नी  Muslim , he disavowed racism and expressed willingness to work with civil rights leaders , he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
Henry Merritt `` Hank ''  paulson , jr. ( born कूच 28 , 1946 )  is an American banker who served as the 74th United States Secretary of the Treasury .
He had served as the Chairman  और मुख्य कार्यपालिका अधिकारी of गोल्डमैन sachs  , and is now chairman of the Paulson Institute , which he founded in 2011 to promote sustainable economic growth and a cleaner environment around the world , with an initial focus on the United States and China .
A virtual machine ( VM ) is a software implemented abstraction of the underlying hardware , which is presented to  the अनुप्रयोग परत of the प्रणाली  .
Virtual machines may be based  on विशेषताएँ of a काल्पनिक कंप्यूटर or  emulate the computer architecture and functions of a real world computer .
Spiders ( order Araneae ) are air-breathing  arthropods कि have आठ टाँगे और chelicerae साथ  fangs that inject venom .
वे हैं the largest अनुक्रम  of arachnids and rank seventh in total species diversity among all other groups of organisms .
Spiders are found worldwide on every  महाद्वीप मगर  for Antarctica , and have become established in nearly every habitat with the exception of air and sea colonization .
As of 2008 , at least 43,678 spider species , and 109 families have been recorded by taxonomists ; however , there has been confusion within the scientific community as to how all these families  चाहिए  be classified , as evidenced by the over 20 different classifications that have been proposed since 1900 .
Anatomically , spiders differ from other arthropods in that the usual body segments are fused into two tagmata , the cephalothorax and  उदर , और joined by a छोटी  , cylindrical pedicel .
Unlike insects  , मकड़ियों  do not have antennae .
In all except the most primitive group , the Mesothelae , spiders have the most  centralized बेचैन प्रणालियों of सब arthropods , as सब उनके ganglia हैं fused  into one mass in the cephalothorax .
Unlike most arthropods , spiders have no extensor muscles in their limbs and instead extend  उन्हें by हाइड्रोलिक दबाव  .
Their abdomens bear appendages  कि have महरूम परिवर्धित  into spinnerets that extrude silk from up to six types of silk glands within their abdomen .
Spider webs vary widely in size , shape and the amount of sticky thread  प्रयुक्त  .
It now  appears कि the सर्पिल orb वेब may be  one of the earliest forms , and spiders that produce tangled cobwebs are more abundant and diverse than orb-web spiders .
Spider-like arachnids with silk-producing spigots appeared  in the devonian काल परिचय  , but these animals apparently lacked spinnerets .
True spiders  have महरूम मिला in carboniferous रॉक्स इससे , और हैं  very similar to the most primitive surviving order , the Mesothelae .
The main groups of modern spiders ,  mygalomorphae और araneomorphae  , first appeared in the Triassic period , before .
A herbivorous species , Bagheera kiplingi , was described in 2008 , but all other  ज्ञात प्रजाति हैं परभक्षी , ज़्यादातर preying on कीट और on अन्य मकड़ियों  , although a few large species also take birds and lizards .
Spiders use a wide range of strategies to capture prey : trapping it in sticky webs , lassoing it with sticky  bolas , mimicking the शिकार to avoid  detection , or running it down .
Most detect prey mainly by sensing  कंपन , लकिन the क्रियाशील hunters have अधि दृष्टि , और hunters of the  genus Portia show signs of intelligence in their choice of tactics and ability to develop new ones .
Spiders '  गुस्ताखी हैं too सीमित  to take solids , and they liquidize their food by flooding it with digestive enzymes and grinding it with the bases of their pedipalps , as they do not have true jaws .
Male spiders  पहचानो themselves  by a variety of complex courtship rituals to avoid being eaten by the females .
Males of most species survive a few matings ,  सीमित मुख्यतः by उनके  short life spans .
Females weave silk egg-cases ,  प्रत्येक of जिससे may  contain hundreds of eggs .
महिलाओं of  many species care for their young , for example by carrying them around or by sharing food with them .
A  अल्पसंख्यक of प्रजाति हैं सोशल  , building communal webs that may house anywhere from a few to 50,000 individuals .
Social behavior  सीमाएँ इससे precarious toleration , as in the  widow spiders , to co-operative hunting and food-sharing .
Although most spiders live for  at सबसे दो सालो  , tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity .
While the venom of a few species is  खतरनाक to इंसानो , वैज्ञानिकों हैं अभी researching the  use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides .
Spider silk provides a  संयोजन of lightness , शक्ति  and elasticity that is superior to that of synthetic materials , and spider silk genes have been inserted into mammals and plants to see if these can be used as silk factories .
As a result  of उनके चौड़ी दायरा of व्यवहार , मकड़ियों  have become common symbols in art and mythology symbolizing various combinations of patience , cruelty and creative powers .
Donna Marie Pinciotti ( Born February 13 , 1960 ) is a fictional character and  एक of the दो मादा लीड in  the Fox sitcom That '70s Show , appearing in all eight seasons .
Portrayed by  लौरा prepon , डोना  is the love interest to Eric Forman .
US county household  मध्य आय 2009  .
Median  us household  income , 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly used by the United States  सरकारी और निजी संस्थानों  .
प्रत्येक household  is measured by the income of every resident over the age of 15 .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance , disability  भुगतान , चाइल्ड support भुगतान प्राप्त , नियमित rental  receipts , as well as any personal business , investment , or other kinds of income received routinely .
While inflation-adjusted (  `` रियल '' ) household आय था महरूम  increasing almost every year from 1945 to 1999 , it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median  household आय गिरी इससे $ 51,144  in 2010 to $ 50,502 in 2011 .
Extreme poverty  in the संयुक्त राज्य , अर्थ households  living on less than $ 2 per day before government benefits , doubled from 1996 to 1.5 million households in 2011 , including 2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do not have  to be सम्बन्धित to the सिर of  the household for their earnings to be considered part of the household 's income .
As households tend to share a similar economic context , the use of  household आय  remains among the most widely accepted measures of income .
कि the आकार of a household is नहीं commonly लिया into खाता in ऐसे उपायों may विकृत कोई  analysis of fluctuations within or among the household income categories , and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible .
A registered agent , also known as a resident agent or statutory agent , in United States business law , is a business  or व्यक्तिगत  designated to receive service of process ( SOP ) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons .
The registered agent 's address may also be where the  राज्य होगा भेजें the  paperwork for the yearly renewal of the business entity 's charter .
The  पंजीकृत एजेंट लिये a कारोबार एंटिटी may  be an individual member of the company , or ( more often ) a third party , such as the organization 's lawyer or a service company .
Failure to properly maintain a registered agent can  affect a कम्पनी negatively  .
दफ्तर लिये  Emergency Management .
Office of War  सूचना  war poster 1941 - 1945
`` Life , Liberty , and the pursuit of Happiness '' is a well-known phrase  in the संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता  .
The phrase is meant to exemplify the `` unalienable rights '' with which all human beings are endowed by their creator  लिये उनके सुरक्षा of जिससे वे संस्थान  governments .
Fencing , is typically divided into Olympic fencing ,  शास्त्रीय तलवारबाजी और  historical fencing , .
The sport of fencing (  commonly पुकारा ओलम्पिक तलवारबाजी or प्रतिस्पर्धी तलवारबाजी ) is  divided into three weapon categories : foil , sabre and épée .
Classical fencing uses the same three  हथियार  , but approaches fencing as a martial art .
Competitive  तलवारबाजी is एक of पाँच खेल जिससे रै महरूम प्रदर्शित at प्रत्येक एक  of the modern Olympic Games , the other four being Athletics , Cycling , Swimming , and Gymnastics .
The quadriceps femoris ( Latin for `` four-headed muscle of the femur `` ) , also called simply the quadriceps , quadriceps extensor , quads , is a large muscle group  कि शामिल the चार प्रचलित मांसपेशियां on the सामने  of the thigh .
It is the great extensor muscle  of the घुटना , forming a विशाल मांसल  mass which covers the front and sides of the femur .
The proper Latin plural form of the adjective  quadriceps होता be quadricipites .
In modern English usage , quadriceps is used in both  एकवचन और बहुवचन .
The singular form quadricep , produced by  hypercorrection , is  frequently used .
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the North Atlantic Ocean on 15 April  1912 बाद colliding साथ an हिमशैल दौरान उसके maiden  voyage from Southampton , UK to New York City , US .
The sinking of Titanic caused the deaths of 1,502  लोगों in एक of the deadliest  peacetime maritime disasters in modern history .
The RMS Titanic was the  largest  ship afloat at the time of her maiden voyage .
She was the second of three Olympic class  समंदर liners संचालित by the श्वेत स्टार लकीर , और वो थी निर्मित by the harland और  Wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas Andrews , who perished with the ship , as her naval architect .
On her maiden voyage , she carried 2,224  यात्री  and crew .
Under the command of Edward Smith , her passengers included some of the wealthiest people in the world , as well as hundreds of  emigrants इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन और आयरलैंड , scandinavia और elsewhere  throughout Europe seeking a new life in North America .
The ship was  designed  to be the last word in comfort and luxury , with an on-board gymnasium , swimming pool , libraries , high-class restaurants and opulent cabins .
She also had a powerful wireless telegraph provided for the  convenience of यात्री  as well as for operational use .
हालांकि वो था उन्नत सुरक्षा सुविधाएँ ऐसे as watertight  compartments and remotely activated watertight doors , she lacked enough lifeboats to accommodate all of those aboard .
Because of outdated maritime safety regulations , she carried only  पर्याप्त lifeboats लिये 1,178 people—slightly अधिक than हाफ of the  number travelling on the maiden voyage , and one-third her total passenger and crew capacity .
After leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912 , Titanic called at Cherbourg in France and Queenstown ( now Cobh ) in Ireland  पहले heading westwards  towards New York .
On 14  अप्रैल 1912 , चार दिनों into the क्रासिंग और परिचय 375 मील (  600 km ) south of Newfoundland , she hit an iceberg at 11:40 pm ship 's time .
The glancing collision caused Titanics hull plates to  बकल inwards साथ उसके स्टारबोर्ड पक्ष और खोली  five of her sixteen watertight compartments to the sea ; the ship gradually filled with water .
Meanwhile , passengers and some crew members were evacuated in  lifeboats , अनेक of जिससे  were launched only partly loaded .
A  अनुपातहीन क्रमांक of मेन यहूद बाएँ सवार क्युकी of a `` महिलाओं  and children first `` protocol followed by some of the officers loading the lifeboats .
By 2:20 AM , she broke apart and foundered , with well over  एक हजार लोगों स्टिल सवार  .
Just under two hours after the Titanic foundered , the Cunard liner RMS Carpathia arrived on the scene of the sinking  , जहाँ वो brought सवार an अनुमानित  705 survivors .
The disaster was greeted with worldwide shock and outrage at the huge loss of life  और the नियामक और  operational failures that had led to it .
Public inquiries in Britain and the  संयुक्त राज्य led to प्रमुख  improvements in maritime safety .
One of their most important legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the  अंतरराष्ट्रीय सम्मेलन लिये the सुरक्षा  of Life at Sea ( SOLAS ) , which still governs maritime safety today .
Additionally , several new wireless regulations were passed around the world in an effort to learn from  the अनेक missteps in बेतार संचार --  -which could have saved many more passengers .
Many of the survivors lost all of their  धन और possessions और यहूद बाएँ अक्षम  ; many families , particularly those of crew members from Southampton , lost their primary bread-winners .
They were helped by an outpouring of  पब्लिक सहानुभूति  and charitable donations .
Some of the male survivors were accused of cowardice for leaving the ship while people were still on board  ; the श्वेत स्टार लकीर  's chairman , J. Bruce Ismay , faced social ostracism for the rest of his life .
The wreck of the  टाइटैनिक remains on the  seabed , split in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of .
Since its discovery in 1985 ,  हज़ारों of artefacts have महरूम बरामद  and put on display at museums around the world .
Titanic has become one of the most famous ships in history , her memory kept alive by  numerous किताबे , लोक गीतों , films  , exhibits , and memorials .
The human leg is the entire lower extremity or limb of the human body , including the foot ,  जांघ और भी the हिप or gluteal प्रदेश ; however , the precise परिभाषा in इंसान  anatomy refers only to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle .
Legs are used for standing ,  चलना , कूद , कार्यशील , kicking  , and similar activities , and constitute a significant portion of a person 's mass .
This article is about the demographic features of the population  of तुर्कों , सहित जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व ,  ethnicity , education level , health of the populace , economic status , religious affiliations and other aspects of the population .
As of 2010 , the population of Turkey is estimated to be 73.7 million with a growth rate of  1.21 % प्रति annum ( 2009 फिगर ) .
The population is  अपेक्षाकृत यंग साथ  26.6 % falling in the 0-14 age bracket .
According to the OECD/World Bank population statistics in Turkey the population growth from  1990 to 2008 थी 16 लाख  or 29 % .
1998  BMW 750iL
Buick  roadmaster
A full-size car is a marketing term used in North America for an  ऑटोमोबाइल larger than  a mid-size car .
In the United  राज्य , the epa उपयोग  the term `` large car '' to denote full-size cars .
Joel Grey ( born April 11 , 1932 ) is an American stage and screen actor , singer , and dancer , known for his role as the  निपुण of ceremonies in  both the stage and film adaptation of the Kander & Ebb musical Cabaret .
He  रै जीती the अकादमी  Award , Tony Award and Golden Globe Award .
He also  originated the भूमिका  of George M. Cohan in the musical George M !
in 1973  , the जादूगर  in the musical Wicked .
Grey also starred in the Broadway revivals of Anything Goes as  moonface मार्टिन , और शिकागो  as Amos Hart .
James Madison , Jr. ( March 16  , 1751 ( o.s . कूच 5 ) – जून 28 ,  1836 ) was an American statesman and political theorist , the fourth President of the United States ( 1809–1817 ) .
He is hailed as the “Father of the  constitution” लिये होने इंस्ट्रूमेंटल in the drafting  of the United States Constitution and as the key champion and author of the United States Bill of Rights .
He served as a politician much of  उसके वयस्क जीवन  .
बाद the संविधान  had been drafted , Madison became one of the leaders in the movement to ratify it .
His collaboration with  सिकंदर हैमिल्टन और  John Jay produced the Federalist Papers ( 1788 ) .
परिचालित तभी in नई यॉर्क at the समय  , they would later be considered among the most important polemics in support of the Constitution .
He was also a delegate to the Virginia constitutional ratifying convention , and was  इंस्ट्रूमेंटल to the कामयाब अनुसमर्थन प्रयत्न in वर्जिनिया  .
Like most of his  contemporaries , मैडिसन  changed his political views during his life .
During the drafting and ratification of the constitution , he favored a strong national government , though later he grew to  एहसान stronger राज्य सरकारें , पहले settling  between the two extremes late in his life .
In 1789 , Madison  became a नेता in the नई हाउस  of Representatives , drafting many basic laws .
He is notable for drafting the  पहला टेन amendments  to the Constitution , and thus is known as the `` Father of the Bill of Rights `` .
Madison worked closely with President George Washington to organize  the नई संघीय  government .
Breaking with Hamilton and what became the Federalist Party in 1791 , Madison and Thomas Jefferson organized what they  पुकारा the रिपब्लिकन पार्टी ( बाद पुकारा  by historians the Democratic-Republican Party )
As Jefferson’s Secretary of State ( 1801–1809 ) , Madison  पर्यवेक्षित the louisiana खरीदें  , which doubled the nation’s size .
After his election to the presidency , he presided over  नवीनीकृत समृद्धि  for several years .
As president ( 1809–17 ) , after the failure of diplomatic protests and a trade embargo  विरूद्ध ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , he  led the nation into the War of 1812 .
He was responding to British encroachments on American honor and rights ; in addition , he wanted to end the influence of the British among  उनके भारतीय allies , जिनकी प्रतिरोध अवरोधित संयुक्त राज्य उपनिवेश in the मिडवेस्ट around  the Great Lakes .
Madison found the war to be an administrative  दुःस्वप्न , as the संयुक्त राज्य था neither a दमदार फौज nor वित्तीय प्रणाली  ; as a result , he afterward supported a stronger national government and a strong military , as well as the national bank , which he had long opposed .
Like other Virginia statesmen in the slave society , he was a slaveholder who inherited his plantation known as Montpelier , and owned hundreds of slaves during his lifetime to cultivate  तम्बाकू और अन्य फसलों  .
मैडिसन समर्थित the three-fifths सुलह  that allowed three-fifths of the enumerated population of slaves to be counted for representation .
``  रोमन 's बदला '' is a  song performed by American rapper Nicki Minaj from her debut studio album Pink Friday .
It was written by Minaj and rapper Eminem , who is also featured in the song  , और थी उत्पादित by swizz beatz .
it थी released exclusively on अक्तूबर 30 , 2010  through the US iTunes Store , as a promotional release preceding the album 's release .
The song initiated a feud between Lil ' Kim and Minaj , where many people felt the song was directed  at लील ' किम और regarded around उसके जज्बात  towards Minaj 's rise to fame .
The song references Minaj 's alter-ego , Roman  zolanski , और  Eminem 's alter-ego , Slim Shady .
The song garnered very positive reviews from  आलोचकों , सबसे of जिससे praised the सोंग as  a stand-out track on the album .
An official remix featuring Minaj 's  mentor , लील वेन , थी released to the us itunes स्टोर  on January 19 , 2011 .
the इंस्ट्रूमेंटल थी प्रयुक्त in  the song 'Firing Squad ' by Horseshoe G.A.N.G .
Hydraulic fluid  होने poured  .
Hydraulic  fluids , भी पुकारा हाइड्रोलिक  liquids , are the medium by which power is transferred in hydraulic machinery .
Common  हाइड्रोलिक fluids हैं  based on mineral oil or water .
Examples of equipment that might use hydraulic fluids include excavators and backhoes , hydraulic brakes , power steering systems ,  ट्रांसमिशन , कचरा ट्रक , वायुयान उड़ान  control systems , lifts , and industrial machinery .
Hydraulic systems like the ones mentioned above will work most efficiently if the  हाइड्रोलिक द्रव  used has no compressibility
महिंद्रा ट्रैक्टर
Mahindra Tractors , the farm equipment division of  महिंद्रा & महिंद्रा , builds और स्त्रोत tractors  that are sold worldwide across six continents .
Mahindra is also among the top  तीन ट्रैक्टर निर्माताओं  in the world .
Mahindra has a huge consumer base in India , China and  अमेरिका  and a growing base in Australia .
The company builds more  tractors in इण्डिया than कोई अन्य  manufacturer , and has the capacity to build 150,000 tractors a year .
In 1963 , M & M formed a joint venture with International Harvester to manufacture tractors  carrying the महिंद्रा nameplate लिये the भारतीय मार्केट  .
Armed with engineering , tooling and manufacturing know-how gained  इससे इस संबंध ,  M & M developed its first tractor , the B-275 .
Mahindra Tractors with sales of nearly 85,000 units annually is one of the largest  ट्रैक्टर कंपनियाँ in the संसार , और is  number one in sales in India - the largest tractor market in the world .
To expand into the growing  ट्रैक्टर मार्केट in चीन , महिंद्रा acquired  majority stake in Jiangling .
To raise awareness about Mahindra in the US , Mahindra USA announced its new sponsorship in  the nascar देशभर श्रेणी साथ r3  Motorsports , which is participating with a # 23 Mahindra Tractors Chevrolet .
The car will be driven by Robert Richardson , Jr. Mahindra USA , Inc. announced a 17-race  प्राथमिक और 18-race संबद्ध प्रायोजन लिये the 2009  NASCAR Nationwide Series .
With this sponsorship , Mahindra was the first Indian company to  प्रायोजक a car in nascar  .
In 2008 , Mahindra was a sponsor of the McDonald Motorsports team which  भागा the # 81 car in the  NASCAR Nationwide Series .
The POWER6 is a  माइक्रोप्रोसेसर विकसित  by IBM that implemented the Power ISA v.2.03 .
When it became available in systems in 2007 , it succeeded the  शक्ति5+ as  IBM 's flagship Power microprocessor .
It is part of the eCLipz project , said to have a  goal of  converging IBM 's server hardware where practical ( hence `` ipz '' in the acronym : iSeries , pSeries , and zSeries ) .
The American middle  क्लास  is a social class in the United States .
While the concept is typically ambiguous in popular opinion and common language use , contemporary social scientists have put forward several , more or less congruent  , theories on the अमरीकी  middle class .
Depending on class model used ,  the मध्य क्लास may constitute anywhere  from 25 % to 66 % of households .
One of the first major studies of the middle class in America was White Collar : The American Middle Classes ,  प्रकाशित in 1951 by समाजशास्त्री C.  Wright Wright_Mills Mills Wright_Mills .
Later  sociologists ऐसे as डेनिस गिल्बर्ट  of Hamilton College commonly divide the middle class into two sub-groups .
Constituting roughly 15 % to 20 % of households is the  अपर or पेशेवर मध्य क्लास  consisting of highly educated , salaried professionals and managers .
Constituting roughly one third of households is the lower middle class consisting mostly of semi-professionals ,  skilled कारीगरों और lower-level  management .
Middle-class persons commonly have a comfortable standard of  जीना , significant  economic security , considerable work autonomy and rely on their expertise to sustain themselves .
सदस्यों of the मध्य क्लास  belong to diverse groups which overlap with each other .
Overall ,  middle-class व्यक्तियों , विशेषकर  upper-middle-class individuals , are characterized by conceptualizing , creating and consulting .
Thus , college education is one of the main  indicators of middle-class  status .
Largely attributed to the nature of middle-class  occupations , मध्य क्लास  values tend to emphasize independence , adherence to intrinsic standards , valuing innovation and respecting non-conformity .
Politically more active than  अन्य जनसांख्यिकी , कॉलेज शिक्षित मध्य क्लास  professionals are split between the two major parties .
Income varies  considerably इससे निकट  the national median to well in excess of $ 100,000 .
Household income figures , however , do not always reflect  क्लास औकात और मानक  of living , as they are largely influenced by the number of income earners and fail to recognize household size .
It is therefore possible for a large , dual-earner , lower middle class household to out-earn a  छोटी , one-earner , अपर मध्य क्लास  household .
The  मध्य वर्ग हैं बहुत  influential , as they encompass the majority of voters , writers , teachers , journalists , and editors .
सबसे societal रुझान  in the US originate within the middle classes .
The following is a list of Saturday Night Live  डाल सदस्यों , पास्ट और  present .
The cast members of Saturday Night Live were originally referred to as the `` Not Ready For  प्रधान समय खिलाड़ी  '' .
The original cast ( l to r ) : Laraine Newman ,  जॉन belushi , जेन कर्टिन , gilda radner ,  Dan Aykroyd , Garrett Morris , and Chevy Chase
Ruins from the 1906 San Francisco earthquake ,  remembered as एक of the worst  natural disasters in United States history
A disaster is a natural or man-made ( or technological ) hazard resulting in an event of substantial extent causing significant physical  क्षति or विनाश , घाटा of जीवन , or drastic बदलें to the पर्यावरण  .
A disaster can be  ostensively पारिभाषित as कोई  tragic event stemming from events such as earthquakes , floods , catastrophic accidents , fires , or explosions .
It is a phenomenon  कि can कारण  damage to life and property and destroy the economic , social and cultural life of people .
In contemporary academia  , आपदाओं हैं देखी as  the consequence of inappropriately managed risk .
These risks are  the उत्पाद of  a combination of both hazard/s and vulnerability .
Hazards that strike in areas  साथ कम vulnerability होगा never  become disasters , as is the case in uninhabited regions .
Developing countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by disasters  occur in विकासशील देशों , और नुकसान due to प्राकृतिक आपदाओं हैं 20 टाइम्स वृहद ( as a प्रतिशत  of GDP ) in developing countries than in industrialized countries .
In computing , booting ( also known as booting up ) is the initial set of operations that a computer  प्रणाली performs जब विद्युत  power to the CPU is switched on .
The process begins when a computer is  turned on लिये the पहला समय or is re-energized  after being turned off , and ends when the computer is ready to perform its normal operations .
On modern general purpose computers , this can take tens of seconds and typically involves performing a power-on self-test , locating and initializing peripheral  डिवाइस , और तब ढूंढना , लदान और starting  an operating system .
Many computer systems also allow these  परिचालन to be initiated by a तन्त्र कमांड बगैर साइकिलिंग शक्ति , in कया  is known as a soft reboot , though some of the initial operations might be skipped on a soft reboot .
A boot loader is a computer program that loads the main operating system or runtime  पर्यावरण लिये the कंप्यूटर बाद पूर्णता  of the self-tests .
The computer term boot is short for bootstrap or bootstrap load  और गर्भाशयी इससे the phrase to खींचो oneself up  by one 's bootstraps .
The usage calls attention to the requirement that , if most software is loaded onto a computer by other software already running on the  कंप्यूटर , कुछ यांत्रिकी जरूर मौजूद to लोड आरंभिक तन्त्र onto the कंप्यूटर  .
Early computers used a variety of ad-hoc methods to  मिलेंगी a छोटी कार्यक्रम into  memory to solve this problem .
The invention of integrated circuit read-only memory ( ROM ) of  विभिन्न प्रकार हल इस  paradox by allowing computers to be shipped with a start up program that could not be erased .
Growth in  the क्षमता  of ROM has allowed ever more elaborate start up procedures to be implemented .
On general purpose  कंप्यूटर , the बूट प्रक्रम begins  with the execution of an initial program stored in boot ROMs or read in another fashion .
In some  पुरानी कंप्यूटर ,  the initial program might have been the application to run , if no operating system was used , or the operating system .
In other computers , the initial program is a boot loader that may then load into random-access memory ( RAM ) , from nonvolatile secondary storage ( such as a hard disk drive ) or , in some older computers , from a medium such as punched cards , punched tape , or magnetic tape in older computers , the binary  कोड of an ऑपरेटिंग प्रणाली or runtime पर्यावरण और तब चलाएँ  it .
If the boot loader is limited in its size and capabilities , it may , instead , load a larger and more capable secondary boot  लोडर , जिससे होता तब लोड  the operating system or runtime environment .
Some embedded systems do not require a noticeable boot sequence to  शुरू कामकाज  and when turned on may simply run operational programs that are stored in ROM .
Firebird is an open source  एसक्यूएल रिलेशनल डेटाबेस  management system that runs on Linux , Windows , and a variety of Unix .
The database forked  इससे borland 's खोलें सोर्स  edition of InterBase in 2000 , but since Firebird 1.5 the code has been largely rewritten .
Outsourcing  is the contracting  out of an internal business process to a third-party organization .
The  अभ्यास of contracting  a business process out to a third party rather than staffing it internally is common in the modern economy .
The term ``  आउटसोर्सिंग '' became लोकप्रिय in  the United States near the turn of the 21st century .
Outsourcing sometimes  involves transferring कर्मचारी और  assets from one firm to another , but not always .
The definition of outsourcing includes both foreign and  घरेलू contracting , और sometimes शामिल offshoring  , which means relocating a business function to another country .
Financial savings from lower international labor rates is a big  प्रेरणा लिये outsourcing/offshoring  .
The opposite of outsourcing is called insourcing , which entails bringing  प्रक्रियाओं संभाला by third-party  firms in-house , and is sometimes accomplished via vertical integration .
However  , a कारोबार can provide a अनुबंध  service to another business without necessarily insourcing that business process .
Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is a lentivirus ( slowly replicating retrovirus ) that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS  ) , a कंडीशन in इंसानो in जिससे प्रगतिशील विफलता of the  immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive .
Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood , semen ,  vaginal द्रव , pre-ejaculate , or स्तन  milk .
Within these bodily fluids , HIV is present as both free virus  अणु और वायरस भीतर संक्रमित  immune cells .
HIV infects vital cells in the human immune system  ऐसे as हेल्पर t कोशिकाएं ( specifically cd4 + t  cells ) , macrophages , and dendritic cells .
HIV  संक्रमण लीड to कम स्तर of cd4+ t कोशिकाएं through a क्रमांक of mechanisms सहित : apoptosis  of uninfected bystander cells , direct viral killing of infected cells , and killing of infected CD4+ T cells by CD8 cytotoxic lymphocytes that recognize infected cells .
When CD4+ T cell numbers decline below a critical level , cell-mediated immunity is lost , and the body becomes progressively more susceptible  to opportunistic infections .
The  firepole in a  fire station in Toronto
A fireman 's pole ( also called a sliding pole or firepole ) is a wooden pole or a metal tube  or पाइप संस्थापित between floors in आग स्टेशन , allowing अग्निशमन responding  to an alarm to quickly descend to the ground floor faster than by using a standard staircase .
The device was invented in the 1870s by David Kenyon , in Chicago , Illinois , although it is often  incorrectly credited to the बोस्टन  Fire Department .
Mary Poppins is the title character of a series of children 's  किताबे लिखा by  P. L. Travers .
Throughout the Mary Poppins  श्रेणी , जिससे lasted  from 1934 to 1988 , Mary Shepard was the illustrator and acted as a second author .
The books centre on a magical English nanny  , मरियम poppins .
She is blown  by the ईस्ट हवा to क्रमांक सत्रह चेरी पेड़  Lane , London , and into the Banks ' household to care for their children .
Encounters with chimney sweeps , shopkeepers and various  adventures follow जबतक मरियम poppins abruptly पत्ते  , i.e. , `` pops-out '' .
The adventures take place  over a कुल  of eight books .
However , only the first three  किताबे विशेषता मरियम  Poppins arriving and leaving .
The later five books recount  previously unrecorded adventures  from her original three visits .
As  P. L. ट्रेवर्स explains in उसके परिचय to मरियम poppins  in the Park , `` She can not forever arrive and depart . ''
The books were  adapted in 1964 into a  musical Disney film starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke .
In 2004 , Disney Theatrical  उत्पादित a स्टेज musical  adaptation in the West End theatre .
The stage musical was  transferred to ब्रॉडवे  in 2006 where it ran until its closing on March 3 , 2013 .
It has been highly successful , as was  the 1964 फिल्मी  .
The Last Song is  a 2010 अमरीकी coming of आयु टीन  romantic drama film developed alongside Nicholas Sparks ' novel by the same name .
The film was directed by Julie Anne Robinson in  उसके विशेषता फिल्मी directorial डेब्यू  and co-written by Sparks and Jeff Van Wie .
The Last Song stars Miley Cyrus , Liam  hemsworth , और ग्रेग kinnear और फ़ॉलो a troubled किशोरावस्था as  she reconnects with her estranged father and falls in love during a summer in a quiet Southern United States beach town .
The film is distributed by  touchstone  Pictures .
Sparks  थी approached to लिखें दोनो  the film 's screenplay and the novel .
Sparks completed the screenplay in January 2009 ,  prior to the पूर्णता of the अनोखा  , making The Last Song his first script to be optioned for film .
The setting , originally in North Carolina  जैसे the अनोखा ,  moved to Georgia after the states had campaigned for months to host production .
Upon beginning production in Tybee Island , Georgia and nearby Savannah , The Last Song became the first movie to be  दोनो शॉट और नियत in tybee द्वीप  .
Filming lasted from June 15 to August 18 , 2009 with much of it occurring  on the द्वीप 's बीच और  pier .
The  पिछला सोंग थी originally अनुसूचित लिये चौड़ी रिलीज on  January 8 , 2010 , but was postponed to March 31 , 2010 .
लिखा simlish
Simlish is a fictional  भाषा प्रदर्शित  in EA Games ' Sim series of games .
It  debuted in simcopter  , and has been especially prominent in The Sims , The Sims 2 and The Sims 3 .
The Sims  विकास टोली निर्मित the अद्वितीय simlish  language by experimenting with fractured Ukrainian , French , Latin , Finnish , English , Fijian , Cebuano , and Tagalog .
Simlish can also be heard in SimCity 4 , SimCity Societies  और simcity  2013 , but far less frequently .
Civilized Creatures in Spore can also be taught to speak  simlish  .
It is also featured to an extent in Firaxis Games ' Sid Meier 's  simgolf  .
Designer Will Wright was conscious of the need for dialogue in the game , but thought that using a real language would make it sound too repetitive and would also be too costly to hire translators  लिये संसार भाषाएं  .
Initially , inspired by the Native American code talkers of World War II , Sims creator Will Wright and language expert  मार्क gimbel सुझाया experimenting साथ the navajo भाषा to बनाएँ  Simlish .
However , they ultimately decided that Simlish worked best as a `` language '' made up of gibberish words that could n't be translated , so that its meaning would be left open to the  कल्पना of the खिलाड़ी  .
Wright later  commented कि using `` बकवास भाषा  '' turned out to be the right development choice , as people were capable of imagining it more realistically than a computer could simulate a real one .
The actual sound of Simlish was created improvisationally by voice actors  स्टीफन kearin और gerri lawlor  .
An example of Ultrasonic Testing ( UT ) on  ब्लेड जड़ें of a v2500 iae वायुयान  engine .
Step 1 : The UT probe is placed on the  रूट of the ब्लेड to be inspected  with the help of a special borescope tool ( video probe ) .
कदम 2 :  Instrument settings are input .
Step 3 : The probe is scanned over  the ब्लेड रूट  .
In this case , an  indication ( शिखर in the आंकड़ा ) through the  red line ( or gate ) indicates a good blade ; an indication to the left of that range indicates a crack .
Principle of  अल्ट्रासोनिक परीक्षण  .
LEFT : A probe  भेजना a  sound wave into a test material .
There are two indications , one from the initial pulse of the  जांच , और  the second due to the back wall echo .
RIGHT  : a defect  creates a third indication and simultaneously reduces the amplitude of the back wall indication .
The depth of the  defect is संकल्पित  by the ratio D/E
In ultrasonic testing ( UT ) , very short  अल्ट्रासोनिक pulse-waves साथ बीच बारंबारता ranging इससे 0.1-15 mhz  and occasionally up to 50 MHz are launched into materials to detect internal flaws or to characterize materials .
A common example  is अल्ट्रासोनिक मोटाई मापन , जिससे परीक्षण the मोटाई of the परीक्षण  object , for example , to monitor pipework corrosion .
Ultrasonic testing is often performed on steel and other metals and alloys , though it can also be used  on कंक्रीट , लकडी और composites , albeit साथ कम रेज़ोल्यूशन  .
It is a form of non-destructive testing used in many industries including aerospace ,  ऑटोमोटिव और अन्य  transportation sectors .
The vas deferens ( plural : vasa deferentia ) , also called ductus deferens ( Latin : ``  carrying-away पोत '' ; बहुवचन : ductus deferentes ) , is भाग of the पुरूष anatomy of अनेक vertebrates  ; they transport sperm from the epididymis in anticipation of ejaculation .
vascular ischemia  of the toes with characteristic cyanosis .
In medicine , ischemia , also  spelled  as ischaemia or ischæmia , ( ; from Greek language ισχαιμία , ischaimía ; isch- root denoting a restriction or thinning or to make or grow thin/lean , haema blood ) is a restriction in blood supply to tissues , causing a shortage of oxygen and glucose needed for cellular metabolism ( to keep tissue alive ) .
Ischemia is generally caused by problems with blood vessels , with resultant damage to   or dysfunction of tissue .
It also means local anemia in a  दिए भाग of a देह sometimes resulting  from congestion ( such as vasoconstriction , thrombosis or embolism ) .
Down syndrome ( DS ) or Down 's syndrome , also known as  trisomy 21 , is a जेनेटिक विकार caused by the उपस्थिति  of all or part of a third copy of chromosome 21 .
Down  सिंड्रोम is the सबसे  common chromosome abnormality in humans .
It is typically associated with a delay in cognitive ability ( mental  retardation , or mr ) और शारीरिक विकास , और a particular नियत  of facial characteristics .
The average IQ of young adults with Down syndrome is  around 50 , whereas यंग वयस्कों बगैर the कंडीशन  typically have an IQ of 100 .
( MR has historically  महरूम पारिभाषित as an  IQ below 70 . )
A large proportion of  individuals साथ bas सिंड्रोम have a कठोर उपाधि of बौद्धिक  disability .
Down syndrome is named after John Langdon Down , the British  चिकित्सक जो वर्णित  the syndrome in 1866 .
The condition   was clinically described earlier by Jean Etienne Dominique Esquirol in 1838 and Edouard Seguin in 1844 .
Down syndrome was  पहचाना as a chromosome  21 trisomy by Dr. Jérôme Lejeune in 1959 .
Down syndrome can be identified in a baby at birth  or पहले जनम  by prenatal screening .
Pregnancies with  इस निदान हैं प्रायः  terminated .
The CDC  estimates कि परिचय एक of  every 691 babies born in the United States each year is born with Down syndrome .
Many children with Down syndrome  हैं शिक्षित in नियमित स्कूल वर्ग जबकि अन्य आवश्यकता  specialised educational facilities .
Some children graduate from high school , and , in the US , there are increasing opportunities for  participating in  post-secondary education .
Education and proper care has been shown  to improve विशेषता of  life significantly .
Many adults  साथ bas सिंड्रोम हैं समर्थ  to work at paid employment in the community , while others require a more sheltered work environment .
Hot flashes ( also known as hot flushes , or night sweats if they happen at night ) are a symptom which may have several other causes , but which is often caused by the changing hormone  स्तर कि हैं characteristic  of menopause .
The Servicemen 's Readjustment Act of 1944 ( P.L . 78-346 , 58 Stat . 284m ) , known informally as the G.I . Bill , was a  विधि कि provided a दायरा of लाभ लिये returning संसार युद्ध ii दिग्गजों ( commonly  referred to as G.I.s ) .
Benefits included low-cost  mortgages , low-interest लोन to प्रारंभ a कारोबार or फार्म , नकदी भुगतान  of tuition and living expenses to attend college , high school or vocational education , as well as one year of unemployment compensation .
It was available to every veteran who  था महरूम on क्रियाशील ड्यूटी दौरान  the war years for at least ninety days and had not been dishonorably discharged ; combat was not required .
By the end of the program in 1956 , roughly 2.2 million veterans had used the G.I . Bill education benefits in order to attend colleges or universities ,  और an अतिरिक्त 6.6 लाख  used these benefits for some kind of training program .
Since  the असली 1944 विधि , the पद रै आइये to शामिल  other veteran benefit programs created to assist veterans of subsequent wars as well as peacetime service .
Historians and economists consider the G.I  . विधेयक a प्रमुख राजनैतिक success—especially  in contrast to the treatments of World War I veterans—and a major contribution to America 's stock of human capital that sped long-term economic growth .
The Watergate scandal was a political scandal that occurred in the United States in the 1970s as a result of the June 17 , 1972 break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters at the Watergate  दफ्तर जटिल in वॉशिंगटन , d.C. , और the निक्सन  administration 's attempted cover-up of its involvement .
The scandal eventually led to the resignation of Richard Nixon , the President  of the संयुक्त राज्य ,  on August 9 , 1974 — the only resignation of a U.S. President .
The scandal  भी  resulted in the indictment , trial , conviction , and incarceration of forty-three persons , dozens of whom were Nixon 's top administration officials .
the affair began साथ the गिरफ़्तार  of five men for breaking and entering into the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) headquarters at the Watergate complex on June 17 , 1972 .
The Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) connected cash found on the burglars to a slush fund used by the Committee for the Re-Election  of the अध्यक्ष , the आधिकारिक संगठन of निक्सन 's अभियान .
In July 1973 , as evidence mounted against the president 's staff , including testimony provided by former staff members in an investigation conducted by the Senate Watergate Committee , it was revealed that  अध्यक्ष निक्सन था a tape-recording प्रणाली in उसके कार्यालयों  and he had recorded many conversations .
Recordings from these tapes implicated the president , revealing he had attempted to cover up the questionable ( and illegal )  goings-on कि था लिया प्लेस दौरान उसके प्रशासन , दोनो पहले और बाद the break-in  .
After a  protracted श्रेणी of कड़वा अदालत लड़ाइयों , the  U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the president had to hand over the tapes to government investigators ; he ultimately complied .
Facing near-certain  महाभियोग in the हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और a दमदार सम्भावना  of a conviction in the Senate , Nixon resigned the presidency on August 9 , 1974 .
His successor ,  जेराल्ड  Ford , then issued a pardon to him .
Elizabeth Imogene Webber ( formerly  lansing और स्पेंसर ) is a fictional अक्षर on the  ABC Daytime soap opera General Hospital .
एलिज़ाबेथ is the पोती  of Dr. Steve Hardy ( John Beradino ) , one of the originating core characters of the series .
Rebecca Herbst originated the character on August 1 , 1997 and has been the  तभी अनुबंध अभिनेत्री to खेल the  role .
Elizabeth is part of two supercouple pairings , Lucky Spencer and  एलिज़ाबेथ webber और  Jason Morgan and Elizabeth Webber .
The United States presidency of  रोनाल्ड reagan  , also known as the Reagan administration , was a Republican administration headed by Ronald Reagan from January 20 , 1981 , to January 20 , 1989 .
Domestically , the administration favored reducing government programs and  introduced the largest  across-the-board tax cuts in American history .
The economic policies enacted in 1981  , known  as `` Reaganomics `` , were an example of supply-side economics .
Reagan aimed to encourage  उद्यमिता  and limit the growth of social spending , as well as the reduction of regulation and inflation .
Economic growth saw a strong recovery in  the 1980s  , helping Reagan to win a landslide re-election .
The  नेशनल कर्ज़ increased  significantly , however .
Regarding foreign policy , the  प्रशासन थी steadfastly anti-communist , कॉलिंग  the Soviet Union an `` evil empire `` and ending 1970s détente .
Reagan accelerated the massive buildup of the military started by his predecessor , including an invasion of  हरा , the पहला प्रमुख विदेशी कार्रवाई by u.S. सैनिकों  since the end of the Vietnam War .
The `` Reagan Doctrine ``  controversially granted सहायता to अर्धसैनिक शक्तियां seeking  to overthrow communist governments , particularly in war-torn Central America and Afghanistan .
Reagan also promoted new technologies such as missile defense systems in order to  confront the soviets और उनके allies  .
In diplomacy , Reagan forged a strong alliance with UK Prime  मंत्री मार्गरेट थैचर  , and he met with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev four times , aiming to shrink the superpowers ' nuclear arsenals .
Reagan 's presidency has been termed the `` Reagan Revolution '' , or the Age of Reagan in recognition of the political realignment both within and beyond the U.S. in favor of his brand of conservatism and his faith in  फ़्री बाज़ार  .
The Reagan administration worked toward the  पतन of सोवियत साम्यवादी , और  it did collapse just as he left office .
Victory in the Cold War led to a unipolar world with  the u.S. as the संसार 's  sole superpower .
While the damaging Iran-Contra affair engulfed several Reagan aides during his second term , Reagan himself left office with a 63 percent  स्वीकृति दरजा , एक of the  higher approval ratings of departing presidents .
After years of unstinting praise from the right , and  unrelenting आलोचना इससे the बाएँ , इतिहासकार दाउद हेनरी पाता  that by 2009 a consensus had emerged among scholars that Reagan revived conservatism and turned the nation to the right by demonstrating a `` pragmatic conservatism '' that promoted ideology within the constraints imposed by the divided political system .
Furthermore , says Henry , the consensus viewpoint agrees that he revived faith in the  प्रेसिडेंसी और अमरीकी self-confidence , और contributed critically  to ending the Cold War .
Crude death rate by country (  2006 )  .
मृत्यु रेट is a माप of the क्रमांक of मौतों  ( in general , or due to a specific cause ) in a population .
Scaled to the  आकार of कि जनसांख्यिकी  , per unit of time .
मृत्यु रेट is typically expressed in इकाई of मौतों प्रति  1000 individuals per year ; thus , a mortality rate of 9.5 ( out of 1000 ) in a population of 1,000 would mean 9.5 deaths per year in that entire population , or 0.95 % out of the total .
It is distinct from morbidity rate , which refers to  the क्रमांक of individuals in ग़रीब स्वास्थ्य दौरान  a given time period ( the prevalence rate ) or the number of newly appearing cases of the disease per unit of time ( incidence rate ) .
The term `` mortality `` is also sometimes inappropriately used to refer to the number of deaths among a set of diagnosed  हॉस्पिटल मामले लिये a बीमारी or चोट , बल्कि than  for the general population of a country or ethnic group .
This disease mortality statistic is more  precisely referred to as ``  case fatality rate `` ( CFR ) .
One  distinguishes:
The crude death rate , the  कुल क्रमांक of मौतों  per year per 1000 people .
the crude death rate for the whole world is  परिचय 8.37 प्रति 1000 प्रति  year according to the current CIA World Factbook .
The perinatal mortality rate , the sum of neonatal  मौतों और fetal मौतों ( stillbirths ) प्रति  1000 births .
The  मातृ मृत्यु अनुपात ,  the number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in same time period .
The maternal mortality rate , the number of maternal deaths per 1,000 women of reproductive age  in the जनसांख्यिकी ( generally  defined as 15–44 years of age ) .
The infant mortality rate , the number of deaths of children  कम than 1 साल बूढ़ा प्रति 1000 सजीव  births .
The child mortality rate , the number of  मौतों of children कम than 5 सालो बूढ़ा  per 1000 live births .
The standardised mortality ratio ( SMR ) - This represents a proportional comparison to  the संख्याएँ of मौतों कि होता have महरूम अपेक्षित  if the population had been of a standard composition in terms of age , gender , etc .
The age-specific mortality rate ( ASMR ) - This  refers to the कुल क्रमांक of मौतों प्रति साल  per 1000 people of a given age ( e.g . age 62 last birthday ) .
In regard to the or failure  of चिकित्सा उपचार or  procedures , one would also distinguish:
The early mortality rate , the total number of deaths in the early stages of  an जारी उपचार , or in the काल तत्काल following an उपचार  .
The late mortality rate , the total number of deaths in the  लेट चरण of an जारी  treatment , or a significant length of time after an acute treatment .
Note that the crude death rate as  पारिभाषित ऊपर और लागू  to a whole population can give a misleading impression .
The crude death rate depends on  the आयु ( और लिंग )  specific mortality rates and the age ( and gender ) distribution of the population .
The number of deaths per 1000 people can be higher for developed nations than in less-developed  देशों , despite जीवन प्रत्याशा होने उच्चतर  in developed countries due to standards of health being better .
इस happens क्युकी विकसित देशों typically have a completely अलग जनसांख्यिकी  age distribution , with a much higher proportion of older people , due to both lower recent birth rates and lower mortality rates .
A more complete picture of mortality is given by a life  तालिका जिससे shows the मृत्यु रेट separately  for each age .
A life table is  जरुरी to दे  a good estimate of life expectancy .
An  otoacoustic उत्सर्जन (  OAE ) is a sound which is generated from within the inner ear .
Having been predicted by Thomas Gold in 1948 , its existence was first demonstrated experimentally by David Kemp in 1978 and otoacoustic emissions have since been shown to arise  by a क्रमांक of अलग  cellular mechanisms within the inner ear .
Studies have shown  कि oaes गायब बाद the भीतरी कान रै महरूम  damaged , so OAEs are often used in the laboratory and the clinic as a measure of inner ear health .
broadly बोलना , वहीँ हैं दो प्रकार of otoacoustic emissions  : spontaneous otoacoustic emissions ( SOAEs ) , which can occur without external stimulation , and evoked otoacoustic emissions ( EOAEs ) , which require an evoking stimulus .
Hurricane Tomas was  the उन्नीसवीं नामित तूफ़ान और  twelfth hurricane of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season .
Tomas developed from a tropical  वेव ईस्ट of the windward आइलैंड्स on  October 29 .
Quickly intensifying  into a hurricane , it स्थानांतरित through  the Windward Islands and passed very near Saint Lucia .
After reaching Category 2  औकात on the saffir-simpson  scale , Tomas quickly weakened to a tropical storm in the central Caribbean Sea , due to strong wind shear and dry air .
Tomas later  regained hurricane औकात as it reorganized  near the Windward passage .
Throughout the hurricane 's path , 71 people are known to have been killed , 14  of जिसको यहूद in संत लूसिया  .
Monetary losses throughout the Windward Islands were  अनुमानित at us $ 588 लाख  , mainly in Saint Lucia .
In the wake of the storm in Haiti , flooding intensified an ongoing cholera outbreak  indirectly causing अधिक  fatalities .
According to a report released in December 2010 , 55 people were killed in Cuba and  hispanola , हालांकि the वितरण of ये fatalities  are unknown .
Overall  क्षति इससे the  storm was at least $ 741 million .
Victoria Jackson ( born August 2 , 1959 ) is an American comedian , actress , satirist , singer and internet blogger  बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a  cast member of the NBC television sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live ( SNL ) from 1986 to 1992 .
She has received attention as a vocal critic of President Barack Obama , and is an active  भागीदार in the चाय  Party movement .
Postmodern literature is literature characterized by heavy reliance on techniques like  fragmentation , विरोधाभास , और questionable narrators , और  is often ( though not exclusively ) defined as a style or trend which emerged in the post–World War II era .
Postmodern works are seen as a reaction against Enlightenment  सोच और modernist  approaches to literature .
Postmodern literature ,  जैसे postmodernism as a पूरे  , tends to resist definition or classification as a `` movement '' .
Indeed , the convergence of postmodern literature with various modes of critical theory , particularly reader-response and deconstructionist approaches , and the subversions of the implicit contract between author , text and reader by which its works are often  characterised , have led to pre-modern fictions ऐसे as cervantes ' डॉन quixote ( 1605,1615 ) और laurence sterne 's eighteenth-century व्यंग्य tristram shandy होने retrospectively  inducted into the fold .
While there is little consensus on the precise  विशेषताएँ , पैमाना , और महत्व of postmodern साहित्य , as is प्रायः  the case with artistic movements , postmodern literature is commonly defined in relation to a precursor .
For example , a postmodern literary  कार्य tends  not to conclude with the neatly tied-up ending as is often found in modernist literature , but often parodies it .
Postmodern authors tend to celebrate chance  over शिल्प , और  further employ metafiction to undermine the writer 's authority .
another characteristic of postmodern  literature is the questioning of distinctions between high and low culture through the use of pastiche , the combination of subjects and genres not previously deemed fit for literature .
Enigma is an electronic musical project founded in Germany by Michael  cretu , दाउद fairstein और फ़्रैंक पीटरसन  in 1990 .
The Romanian-born Cretu  conceived the पहेली प्रोजेक्ट जबकि working in जर्मनी , लकिन आधारित उसके रिकॉर्डिंग  studio A.R.T . Studios in Ibiza , Spain , from the early 1990s until May 2009 , where he has recorded all of Enigma 's studio releases to date .
cretu  is both the composer and the producer of the project .
His former wife , pop singer  सैंड्रा , प्रायः provided  vocals on Enigma tracks .
Jens Gad co-arranged and played  गिटार on तीन of the  Enigma albums .
Peter Cornelius also  contributed to पहेली  during the 1990s .
सात स्टुडियो एल्बम have महरूम  produced under the name of the project .
Scooby-Doo is  an अमरीकी एनिमेटेड कार्टून मताधिकार  , comprising several animated television series produced from 1969 to the present day .
The  असली  series , Scooby-Doo , Where Are You !
, was created for Hanna-Barbera Productions by writers  जो माणिक्य और केन स्पीयर्स  in 1969 .
This Saturday morning cartoon series featured four teenagers— Fred Jones , Daphne Blake , Velma Dinkley  , और norville `` shaggy '' रोजर्स  — and their talking brown Great Dane dog named Scooby-Doo , who solve mysteries involving supposedly supernatural creatures through a series of antics and missteps .
Following the success of the original series ,  hanna-barbera और इसके successor warner ब्रदर्स . एनिमेशन have  produced numerous follow-up and spin-off animated series and several related works , including television specials and telefilms , a line of direct-to-video films , and two Warner Bros. –produced theatrical feature films .
Some versions of Scooby-Doo feature different variations on the show 's  अलौकिक थीम , और शामिल वर्ण ऐसे as स्कूबी 's cousin scooby-dum और भतीजे  Scrappy-Doo in addition to or instead of some of the original characters .
Scooby-Doo was originally broadcast on CBS from  1969 to 1976 , जब  it moved to ABC .
ABC aired the show until canceling it in 1986 , and presented a  spin-off featuring the वर्ण as children , a pup नामित scooby-doo  , from 1988 until 1991 .
Two new Scooby-Doo series , What 's New ,  scooby-doo  ?
and Shaggy and Scooby-Doo Get a a Clue ! ] ] , aired as part of Kids WB on The WB network  और इसके successor ,  The CW network , from 2002 until 2008 .
The most recent  scooby-doo  series , Scooby-Doo !
Mystery  incorporated , aired on कार्टून  Network from 2010 to 2013 .
Repeats of the various Scooby-Doo series are broadcast frequently on Cartoon Network  और boomerang in the संयुक्त राज्य  and other countries .
Call of Duty is  a first-person और  third-person shooter computer/ video game franchise .
The  श्रेणी began on the  PC , and later expanded to consoles and handhelds .
अनेक  spin-off games have also been released .
The earlier games in the series are set primarily in World War II , this  शामिल : कॉल of ड्यूटी , कॉल  of Duty 2 , and Call of Duty 3 .
Beginning with Modern Warfare , which is set in modern times , the series has shifted focus away  इससे संसार युद्ध ii  .
Call of Duty 4 : Modern Warfare ( released  नवम्बर 2007 ) थी followed by कॉल of ड्यूटी : संसार at  War and Call of Duty : Modern Warfare 2 .
Black Ops ( released November 2010 ) takes place in the Cold War , while  आधुनिक warfare 3 ( released नवम्बर 2011 ) takes  place in the near-future setting .
Black Ops 2 ( Released November  13 , 2012 ) takes प्लेस in the  year 2025 .
The  कॉल of ड्यूटी  games are published and owned by Activision with Aspyr Media publishing it for Apple OS X .
जबकि the स्टुडियो अनंत वार्ड primarily स्टिल  develops them , Treyarch has also developed several of the titles with the release of the studios ' games interlaced with each other .
Some games have been developed by Gray Matter Interactive , Spark Unlimited , Amaze Entertainment , n-Space ,  विद्रोह developments , ideaworks खेल स्टुडियो , sledgehammer  Games and nStigate Games .
The games use a variety of engines , including the id Tech 3 , the  treyarch ngl , और the iw  5.0 .
Other products in the franchise  शामिल a लकीर of कार्रवाई आंकड़े designed by  Plan-B Toys , a card game created by Upper Deck , and a comic book mini-series published by WildStorm .
as of नवम्बर 11 ,  2011 , the Call Of Duty series have sold over 100 million copies .
As of March 31 , 2012 there are 40 million monthly active players across all of the Call of Duty titles , with 10  लाख कॉल of ड्यूटी : elite  users and 2 million paying annual members .
Over 1.6 billion hours of  ऑनलाइन gameplay have महरूम logged  Modern Warfare 3 since its 2011 release .
The estate tax in the United States is a tax imposed on the transfer of the `` taxable estate `` of a deceased person , whether such property is transferred via  a होगा , according to the राज्य कानून of intestacy or वरना बना as an घटना of the मौत of the  owner , such as a transfer of property from an intestate estate or trust , or the payment of certain life insurance benefits or financial account sums to beneficiaries .
The estate tax is one  भाग of the एकीकृत  Gift and Estate Tax system in the United States .
The other part of the system , the gift tax , imposes a tax on transfers of property during a person 's life ; the gift tax prevents avoidance of the estate tax should a  व्यक्ति want to दे दूर  his/her estate .
In  जोड to the संघीय  government , many states also impose an estate tax , with the state version called either an estate tax or an inheritance tax .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों of the एस्टेट  tax call it the `` death tax '' .
If an asset is left to a spouse or a Federally recognized  दान , the कर प्रायः करता  not apply .
In addition , up to $  5,250,000 can be दिए by an व्यक्तिगत , पहले and/or  upon their death , without incurring federal gift or estate taxes .
Gavin McGregor Rossdale ( born 30 October 1967 ) is an English actor and musician , known as the  सीसे सिंगर और लय guitarist  of the rock band Bush .
Following Bush 's separation in 2002 , which lasted for eight years , he was the lead singer and  guitarist लिये संस्थान , और बाद  began a solo career .
When  performing सोलो , गेविन plays  songs from his extensive musical libraries .
Rossdale has been  क्रमित in the शीर्ष  100 Heavy Metal Vocalists by Hit Parader ( # 75 ) .
raffaello sanzio da  Urbino ( April 6 or March 28 , 1483 – April 6 , 1520 ) , better known simply as Raphael , was an Italian painter and architect of the High Renaissance .
His work is admired for its clarity of form and ease of composition  और लिये इसके विज़ुअल उपलब्धि  of the Neoplatonic ideal of human grandeur .
Together with Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci , he forms the traditional  ट्रिनिटी of ग्रेट मास्टर्स  of that period .
Raphael was enormously productive  , कार्यशील an unusually विशाल  workshop , and despite his death at 37 , a large body of his work remains .
Many of his works are found in the Vatican Palace , where the frescoed  राफेल कक्ष यहूद the सेंट्रल , और the largest  , work of his career .
The best known work is The School of Athens in  the वेटिकन stanza देला  Segnatura .
After his early years in Rome much of his work was self-designed ,  लकिन लिये the सबसे भाग चलाया by the कार्यशाला  from his drawings , with considerable loss of quality .
He was extremely influential in his lifetime , though outside Rome his  कार्य थी ज़्यादातर ज्ञात इससे उसके collaborative  printmaking .
After his death , the influence of his great rival Michelangelo was more widespread until the 18th and 19th centuries  , जब राफेल 's अधिक निर्मल  and harmonious qualities were again regarded as the highest models .
His career falls naturally into three phases and three styles , first described by Giorgio Vasari : his early years in Umbria , then a  काल of परिचय चार सालो ( इससे 1504–1508 ) absorbing the कलाकारी  traditions of Florence , followed by his last hectic and triumphant twelve years in Rome , working for two Popes and their close associates .
Julia Fiona Roberts ( born October 28 ,  1967 ) is an अमरीकी अभिनेत्री  .
She became a Hollywood  स्टार बाद headlining the रोमांटिक कॉमेडी pretty  Woman ( 1990 ) , which grossed $ 464 million worldwide .
After receiving Golden Globe Awards and Academy Award nominations for Steel Magnolias ( 1989 ) and Pretty Woman , she won  the अकादमी  Award for Best Actress for her performance in Erin Brockovich ( 2000 ) .
Her films The Pelican Brief ( 1993 ) , My Best Friend 's Wedding ( 1997 ) , Mystic Pizza ( 1988 ) ,  नॉटिंग हिल ( 1999 ) , runaway बहू ( 1999 ) , समंदर 's ग्यारह ( 2001 ) , समंदर 's बारह ( 2004 )  , Charlie Wilson 's War ( 2007 ) , Valentine 's Day ( 2010 ) , Eat Pray Love ( 2010 ) , and Mirror Mirror ( 2012 ) have collectively brought box office receipts of over $ 2.6 billion , making her one of the most successful actresses in terms of box office receipts .
Roberts had become one of the  highest-paid अभिनेत्रियों in the संसार  , topping The Hollywood Reporters annual `` power list '' of top-earning female stars from 2005 to 2006 .
Her fee for 1990 's Pretty Woman was $ 300,000 ; in 2003 , she was paid an unprecedented $ 25 million for her role in Mona Lisa  मुस्कान ( 2003 ) .
As of 2010 , Roberts 's net worth was  अनुमानित  to be $ 140 million .
Roberts has been named one of People  पत्रिका 's `` 50 सबसे खूबसूरत लोगों in the संसार  '' eleven times , tied with Halle Berry .
In  2011 , वो थी नामित एक of the `` 100  Hottest Women of All-Time '' by Men 's Health .
In 2001 , Ladies Home Journal ranked her as the 11th  सबसे शक्तिशाली स्त्री  in the United States .
Mark Elliot  zuckerberg ( born may 14 , 1984  ) is an American computer programmer and Internet entrepreneur .
He is best known as one  of पाँच co-founders  of the social networking website Facebook .
As of April 2013 , Zuckerberg is the chairman and chief  कार्यपालिका of फेसबुक , inc. और in 2013 उसके निजी माल  was estimated to be US $ 13 .3 billion .
Together with his college roommates and fellow  हार्वर्ड विश्वविद्यालयों विद्यार्थी एडुआर्डो  Saverin , Andrew McCollum , Dustin Moskovitz and Chris Hughes , Zuckerberg launched Facebook from Harvard 's dormitory rooms .
The group then introduced Facebook onto  अन्य campuses देशभर और स्थानांतरित to  Palo Alto , California , United States ( U.S. ) shortly afterwards .
In 2007 , at the  आयु of twenty-three सालो , zuckerberg became a अरबपति  as a result of Facebook and the number of Facebook users worldwide reached a total of one billion in 2012 .
Zuckerberg was involved in various legal disputes that were initiated by others in the group , who  claimed a share of  the company based upon their involvement during the development phase of Facebook .
Since 2010 , Zuckerberg has been named among the 100 wealthiest and most  influential लोगों in the संसार by समय पत्रिका as a भाग of इसके व्यक्ति of the  Year accolade .
Zuckerberg was played by actor Jesse Eisenberg  in the 2010 हॉलीवुड फिल्मी the सोशल संजाल in  which the rise of Facebook is portrayed .
The Mayflower was the ship that in  1620 transported 102 अंग्रेज़ी तीर्थयात्रियों , सहित  a core group of Separatists , to New England .
Their  स्टोरी is एक of travail और  survival in a harsh New World environment .
framedthe
Committee of  तरीके और अर्थात् is the मुख्य कर  -writing committee of the United States House of Representatives .
Members of the Ways and Means Committee are not allowed to serve on any other  हाउस समितियों जबतक वे  apply for a waiver from their party 's congressional leadership .
The Committee has jurisdiction over all taxation , tariffs and other  revenue-raising उपायों , as खूब as a  number of other programs including:
सोशल  Security
बेरोजगारी  benefits
medicare
Enforcement of  चाइल्ड  support laws
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families , a  संघीय welfare कार्यक्रम
Foster care and  अपनाना कार्यक्रम
The U.S. Constitution requires that all bills regarding taxation  जरूर originate in the  House of Representatives .
Since House procedure is that all bills regarding taxation must go through this  कमेटी , the कमेटी is  very influential , as is its Senate counterpart , the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance .
The Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress was chaired by Charlie Rangel , who had taken a leave of absence as chairman until House  आचार उल्लंघनों यहूद  resolved .
However , his leave of absence as  अध्यक्ष थी शासित to be  a resignation .
पीट स्टार्क resigned as एक्टिंग अध्यक्ष , so sander levin आयोजित कि स्थिति जबतक the प्रारंभ of the 112th कॉंग्रेस .
Dave Camp became the committee chair for the 112th  कॉंग्रेस , बाद the republicans जीती  control of the House in the 2010 election .
The blue  व्हेल ( balaenoptera musculus ) is a समुद्री स्तनधारी  belonging to the suborder of baleen whales ( called Mysticeti ) .
At in length and or more in weight , it is the  largest ज्ञात एनिमल to have कभी  existed .
Long and slender , the blue whale 's body can be various shades of  bluish-grey dorsally और somewhat  lighter underneath .
There are at least three distinct subspecies :  B. m. musculus of the उत्तर अटलांटिक और उत्तर प्रशांत ,  B. m. intermedia of the Southern Ocean and B. m. brevicauda ( also known as the pygmy blue whale ) found in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean .
B. m. indica , found in the  भारतीय समंदर , may  be another subspecies .
As with other baleen  whales , इसके आहार  consists almost exclusively of small crustaceans known as krill .
Blue whales were abundant in nearly all the oceans on Earth until the beginning of  the बीसवीं  century .
For over a century , they were hunted  लगभग to extinction  by whalers until protected by the international community in 1966 .
A 2002 report estimated there  यहूद 5,000 to 12,000 ब्लू whales  worldwide , located in at least five groups .
More  हाल शोध into the सानो subspecies  suggests this may be an underestimate .
Before whaling , the largest population was in the Antarctic , numbering approximately  239,000 ( दायरा 202,000 to 311,000  ) .
There remain only much  छोटी ( around 2,000 ) एकाग्रता in प्रत्येक of  the eastern North Pacific , Antarctic , and Indian Ocean groups .
There are two more groups in the  उत्तर अटलांटिक  , and at least two in the Southern Hemisphere .
The globe artichoke ( Cynara cardunculus var . scolymus ) is a  किस्में of a प्रजाति of thistle cultivated as  a food .
The  खाद्य पदार्थ is कलियों कि रूप भीतर  the flower heads before the flowers come into bloom .
The buds go away or change to a  coarse , मुश्किल खाद्य  form when the flower blooms .
The  uncultivated or जंगली किस्में  of the species is called a cardoon .
It is a  बारहमासी संयंत्र देशी  to the Mediterranean region .
The United States one hundred-dollar  विधेयक ( $ 100 ) is  a denomination of United States currency .
U.S. statesman , inventor  , और राजनयिक बेंजामिन  Franklin is currently featured on the obverse of the bill .
On the reverse of  the banknote is  an image of Independence Hall .
The $ 100 bill is the largest denomination that has  महरूम मुद्रित चूंकि जुलाई 13 , 1969  , when the denominations of $ 500 , $ 1,000 , $ 5,000 , and $ 10,000 were retired .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says  the औसत जीवन of a $ 100 विधेयक in परिसंचरण is 90 महीने  ( 7.5 years ) before it is replaced due to wear and tear .
The bills are also commonly referred to as `` Benjamins '' , in reference to the use of Benjamin Franklin 's portrait on the  denomination , or `` c-notes '' , आधारित on the रोमन  numeral for 100 .
The bill is one of two denominations printed today that does not feature a  अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त राज्य  ; the other is the $ 10 bill , featuring Alexander Hamilton .
The time on the clock of Independence Hall on the reverse , according to  the u.S. ब्यूरो of नक्काशी  and Printing , shows approximately 4:10 .
One hundred hundred-dollar bills are  वितरित by संघीय  Reserve Banks in mustard-colored straps ( $ 10,000 ) .
The Series 2009 $  100 विधेयक redesign थी अनावरण on अप्रैल 21 , 2010 , और  was to be issued to the public on February 11 , 2011 , but production was shut down in December 2010 because as many as 30 % were unusable due to a manufacturing flaw .
A  लंबवत क्रीज in  the paper reveals a blank space on the bill when pulled out .
In their  बदलना , और  continuing the high demand of this denomination , the Series 2006A was launched retaining the previous design ( 1996-generation ) .
On April 24 , 2013 , the Federal  आरक्षित घोषित  the new $ 100 bill would enter circulation on October 8 , 2013 .
King David in robes  of a बीज़ान्टिन  emperor .
Miniature from  the  Paris Psalter .
David ( ; ISO 259-3 Dawid ; ' ; Strong 's : Daveed ) according to the Hebrew Bible , was the second  किंग of the संयुक्त किंगडम of इसराईल , और according to the  New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke , an ancestor of Jesus .
His life is conventionally dated to c. 1040–970  bce , उसके शासनकाल over यहूदा c. 1010–1002  BCE , and his reign over the United Kingdom of Israel c. 1002–970 BCE .
The Books of Samuel , 1 Kings , and 1 Chronicles are the only sources of information on David , although the Tel Dan  stele ( दिनाँक c. 850–835 bce ) contains the phrase ( bytdwd ) , पढ़ा as `` हाउस of दाउद '' , जिससे सबसे  scholars take as confirmation of the existence in the mid-9th century BCE of a Judean royal dynasty called the House of David .
He is depicted as a righteous king , although not  बगैर त्रुटियां , as खूब as an acclaimed योद्धा  , musician , and poet , traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms .
David  is सेंट्रल to यहूदी  , Christian , and Islamic doctrine and culture .
biblical परंपरा  maintains that a direct descendant of David will be the Messiah .
In Islam he is considered to be a prophet  और the किंग of  a nation .
Kathmandu ( ; ) is the  पूंजी और  largest urban agglomerate of Nepal .
The agglomerate consists of Kathmandu Metropolitan City at its core , and its sister cities  patan , kirtipur  , Thimi , and Bhaktapur .
It  भी शामिल the recently  recognized urban areas of Shankhapur , Karyabinayak , and Champapur .
Banepa , Dhulikhel , and Panauti are satellite urban areas of  काठमांडू स्तिथ बस  outside the Kathmandu valley .
Kathmandu is also  ज्ञात informally as `` ktm  '' or the `` tri-city '' .
According to a census conducted in 2011 , Kathmandu  metropolis अलोन रै 975,453 निवासियों  ; and the agglomerate has a population of more than 2.5 million inhabitants .
The metropolitan  नगर क्षेत्रफल  is and has a population density of 19,250 per km2 .
The city stands  at an उन्नयन of लगभग  in the bowl-shaped Kathmandu Valley of central Nepal .
It is surrounded by four major  kyu : shivapuri , phulchoki  , Nagarjun , and Chandragiri .
Kathmandu Valley is part of three districts ( Kathmandu , Lalitpur ,  और भक्तपुर ) , रै the उच्चतम जनसांख्यिकी  density in the country , and is home to about a twelfth of Nepal 's population .
During Rana and Shah eras , the name `` Nepal '' referred only to the Kathmandu Valley ; it was what  लोगों जो जिया बाहर the घाटी  called it .
During  इस काल , अंग्रेजों इतिहासकारों  called the valley itself `` Nepal Proper '' .
Today , Kathmandu is not only the capital of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal , but also the  मुख्यालय of the सेंट्रल विकास  Region of Nepal .
The Central Region comprises three zones : Bagmati ,  narayani , और जनकपुर  .
Kathmandu  is स्तिथ  in the Bagmati Zone .
Kathmandu is the gateway  to पर्यटन  in Nepal .
It is also the nerve center  of the देश 's  economy .
It has the most advanced infrastructure of any urban area in Nepal , and its  अर्थव्यवस्था is केन्द्रित on पर्यटन  , which accounted for 3.8 % of Nepal 's GDP in 1995–96 .
( Tourism in  काठमांडू अस्वीकृत  thereafter during a period of political unrest , but since then has improved . )
The city has a rich history , spanning nearly  2000 सालो , as inferred  from inscriptions found in the valley .
Religious and cultural  festivities रूप a प्रमुख भाग  of the lives of people residing in Kathmandu .
Most of Kathmandu 's people follow Hinduism and  अनेक अन्य follow  Buddhism .
There are people of other religious beliefs as well , giving  काठमांडू a कॉस्मोपॉलिटन  culture .
नेपाली is the  most commonly spoken language in the city .
नेपाल bhasa is the स्वदेशी भाषा  spoken by the Newar people .
Hindi is widely understood and English  is समझा  by Kathmandu 's educated residents .
the नगर  's literacy rate is 98 % .
Kathmandu 's sister cities ( Lalitpur Patan ) and Bhaktapur are integral to Kathmandu 's cultural heritage ,  पर्यटन उद्योग , और अर्थव्यवस्था ; इसलिए युनेस्को 's संसार विरासत साईट सूचियाँ  all three cities ' monuments and attractions together under one heading , `` Kathmandu Valley- UNESCO World Heritage Site `` .
Field hockey , usually referred to simply as hockey ,  is a टोली खेल of the हॉकी परिवार जिससे is निभाई between  two teams of eleven players with hockey sticks and a hard , solid plastic ball .
At the turn of the 21st century , the game is played globally , with  particular लोकप्रियता throughout यूरोपीय , एशिया  , Oceania , and South America – in addition to being the national sport of Pakistan and India .
The term `` field hockey '' is used primarily in Canada , the  संयुक्त राज्य , और अन्य regions  of the world where the sport of ice hockey is more popular .
During play , goal keepers are the only players who are allowed to touch the ball with any part of their body ( with the exception of a player 's hand considered 'part of the stick ' ) , with this only applying within the  शूटिंग वृत्त ( भी ज्ञात as the d , or शूटिंग चाप  , or just the circle ) , while field players play the ball with the flat side of their stick .
The team that scores the most goals by  the समाप्त of the मैच  wins .
If the score is tied at the end of the game , either a draw is declared or the game goes into extra time and/or a penalty shootout  , depending on the प्रतियोगिता 's स्वरूप  .
The governing body of  हॉकी is the अंतरराष्ट्रीय हॉकी संघ ( fih ) , साथ मेन और महिलाओं  being represented internationally in competitions including the Olympic games , Commonwealth games , Hockey World Cup , Champions Trophy and Junior Hockey World Cup , with many countries running extensive junior , senior , and masters ' club competitions .
The FIH is also responsible for organising the Hockey Rules Board and developing  the नियम लिये the खेल  .
A popular variant of field hockey is indoor hockey , which differs in a number of  respects जबकि मूर्त the प्राथमिक सिद्धान्त of हॉकी  .
Indoor hockey is a 6-a-side variant , with a field which is  घटाया to लगभग 40m  × 20m .
With many of the rules remaining the same , including obstruction and feet , there are several key variations - Players may  नहीं उठाएँ the बॉल जबतक शूटिंग on लक्ष्य , खिलाड़ी may नहीं hit the बॉल ( बजाय utilising pushes to ट्रांसफ़र the  ball ) , and the sidelines are replaced with solid barriers which the ball will rebound off .
Ethan `` Cane '' Ashby ( né Atkinson ) is a fictional character from the  अमरीकी सीबीएस साबुन ओपेरा  The Young and the Restless .
He is portrayed by Australian actor Daniel Goddard , who originally auditioned for Brad Snyder on As the World Turns but was recommended for a role  on the यंग और the बेचैन  instead .
The role was to be portrayed as an American , but Goddard 's Australian descent  बहकावे the अक्षर 's पृष्ठभूमि  .
Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the episode airing on January 12 , 2007 as an Australian bartender  in ढूंढें of  his family , a debut that received a mixed response .
Latham created  cane as the बेटे of फिलिप चांसलर ii ( donnelly  Rhodes ) and Jill Foster Abbott ( Jess Walton ) but the character 's background was rewritten by Maria Arena Bell in 2009 , reestablishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson ( Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis ) .
Though characterized as `` mysterious '' , Cane is `` loyal and dedicated '' , while Goddard described the  अक्षर as a `` ठेठ ऑस्ट्रेलियाई ,  working-class kind of guy '' .
He was the first member of the Atkinson family to appear on the series , followed by his  अभिभावक और एकसमान जुड़वा bhai  .
Soon after his debut , he became a leading  अक्षर , a निर्णय praised  by viewers and critics .
The character has been involved with Amber Moore (  adrienne frantz ) , क्लो मिशेल ( एलिज़ाबेथ hendrickson ) और सबसे notably लिली सर्दियों ( christel खलील  ) , a romance that garnered significant fan attention .
In 2009 , Cane and Lily were married ;  वैश्विक bc होता  later call Lily the love of Cane 's life .
The pair had two children , Charlie  और mattie ashby .
In 2011 , the actor was fired , and Cane was shot  to मौत onscreen  .
However , Goddard was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return , revealing that  cane 's एकसमान जुड़वा bhai  was in fact the man who died .
This sacrificed his marriage to Lily , but the couple were  remarried on वेलेंटाइन 's दिन in 2012  .
Goddard has been widely acclaimed for his portrayal ; Canyon News  कहा कि he portrays the अक्षर honestly ,  and is `` always dependable , on fire and exciting '' .
John  क्रिस्टोफर `` जॉनी '' डेप  II ( born June 9 , 1963 ) is an American actor , film producer , and musician .
He has won the Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors  गिल्ड पुरस्कार  for Best Actor .
डेप रोज़ to prominence on the 1980s टेलीविज़न  series 21 Jump Street , becoming a teen idol .
Dissatisfied with that status , Depp turned to film for more challenging  भूमिकाएँ ; he निभाई the शीर्षक अक्षर  of the acclaimed Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) and later found box office success in films such as Sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ) , Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ( 2005 ) , Alice in Wonderland ( 2010 ) , Rango ( 2011 ) and the Pirates of the Caribbean film series ( 2003–present ) .
He has collaborated with  निदेशक  and friend Tim Burton in eight films ; the most recent being Dark Shadows ( 2012 ) .
Depp has gained acclaim for his portrayals of  ऐसे लोगों as ed लकडी in ed लकडी , जोसेफ D. pistone in donnie brasco , शिकारी S. थॉम्पसन in  Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas , George Jung in Blow , and the bank robber John Dillinger in Michael Mann 's Public Enemies .
Films featuring Depp have  grossed over $ 3.1 अरब at the  United States box office and over $ 7.6 billion worldwide .
He has been nominated for top awards many times , winning the Best  कर्ता पुरस्कार इससे the सुनहरी –_motion_picture_musical_or_comedy ग्लोब्स  –_Motion_Picture_Musical_or_Comedy for Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street and from the Screen Actors Guild for Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl .
He also has garnered a sex symbol status in American  सिनेमा  , being twice named as the `` Sexiest Man Alive `` by People magazine in 2003 and 2009 .
He  रै महरूम सूचीबद्ध in  the 2012 Guinness Book of World Records as the highest paid actor , with $ 75 million .
The World Wide Web ( abbreviated as WWW or W3 , commonly known as the  वेब ) , is a प्रणाली of interlinked  hypertext documents accessed via the Internet .
With a web browser , one can view web pages that may contain text , images , videos , and other  मल्टीमीडिया , और navigate between उन्हें via hyperlinks  .
Using concepts from his earlier hypertext systems like ENQUIRE , British engineer , computer scientist and at that time employee of the CERN , Sir Tim Berners-Lee , now  निदेशक of the संसार चौड़ी वेब consortium ( w3c ) , लिखा a प्रस्ताव in कूच 1989 लिये कया होता आखिरकार become  the World Wide Web .
At CERN , a European research organisation near Geneva straddling the border between France and Switzerland , Berners-Lee and Belgian computer scientist Robert Cailliau  प्रस्तावित in 1990 to उपयोग हाइपरटेक्स्ट `` to कड़ी और अभिगम  information of various kinds as a web of nodes in which the user can browse at will '' , and they publicly introduced the project in December of the same year .
Mark Travis John  सांचेज़ ( born  November 11 , 1986 ) is an American football quarterback for the New York Jets of the National Football League ( NFL ) .
He  थी drafted in the पहला गोलाकार of the 2009 एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट as  the fifth overall selection by the Jets and the second quarterback taken overall .
He played college  फ़ुटबॉल at the विश्वविद्यालयों  of Southern California ( USC ) .
Sanchez grew  up in a well-disciplined  and athletic family .
In the eighth grade , he began to play football and learn  the intricacies of the क्वार्टरबैक स्थिति , प्रशिक्षण साथ उसके पिता , उपनाम  .
A well-regarded prospect , Sanchez committed  to दक्षिणी कैलिफ़ोर्निया following उसके कामयाब ऊँची स्कूल करियर in  which he led his team to a championship title during his final season .
At USC , Sanchez was relegated  as the बैकअप क्वार्टरबैक दौरान  his first three years though he rose to prominence due to his brief appearances on the field in 2007 due to injuries suffered by starting quarterback John David Booty .
Sanchez also became  लोकप्रिय भीतर the  community due to his Mexican-American heritage .
नामित the प्रारंभ in 2008 , सांचेज़ led  USC to a 12–1 record and won the Rose Bowl against Penn State for which Sanchez was awarded the Most Valuable Player award for his performance on offense .
Although many considered him too inexperienced , Sanchez announced his intention to enter the 2009  एनएफएल ड्राफ्ट  .
He was  चयनित by the jets बाद वे traded up साथ the क्लीवलैंड भूरा  , and was named the starting quarterback prior to the start of the season .
Despite a subpar  प्रदर्शन , सांचेज़ led the jets to the afc चैंपियनशिप खेल , a खोने प्रयत्न to the इंडियानापोलिस  Colts , becoming the fourth rookie quarterback in NFL history to win his first playoff game and the second to win two playoff games .
In his second season , Sanchez continued to develop and led the Jets to the playoffs and the team 's second  लगातार afc चैंपियनशिप खेल जहाँ वे  narrowly lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers , 24–19 .
With the win over the New  इंग्लैण्ड देशप्रेमी the सप्ताह prior , सांचेज़ tied चार अन्य  quarterbacks for the second most post-season road victories by a quarterback in NFL history .
In leading the Jets to two consecutive conference championships , Sanchez joined quarterback Ben  roethlisberger as the तभी दो quarterbacks  in NFL history to reach the conference championship in their first two seasons in the league .
The  अगला दो सीज़न होता  be a regression for both the team and Sanchez as they failed to reach the playoffs .
Fans and media  आलोचकों पुकारा लिये a struggling  Sanchez to be benched .
He eventually  थी replaced towards the  end of the 2012 season with Greg McElroy .
Paul Avery ( April 2 , 1934December 10 , 2000 ) was an American  पुलिस रिपोर्टर , बेहतरीन ज्ञात लिये उसके कहानियां  on the infamous serial killer known as the Zodiac , and later for his work on the Patricia Hearst kidnapping .
A  छोटी submersible  AC sump pump with a garden hose connector
A sump pump is a pump used to remove water that has accumulated in a  जल collecting sump  basin , commonly found in the basement of homes .
The water may enter via the perimeter drains of  a तहखाने waterproofing प्रणाली , funneling into the जलाशय  or because of rain or natural ground water , if the basement is below the water table level .
Sump pumps are  प्रयुक्त जहाँ तहखाने बाढ़ happens  regularly and to remedy dampness where the water table is above the foundation of a home .
Sump pumps send water away from a house to any place where it is no longer problematic , such as a  नगरपालिका तूफ़ान नाली  or a dry well .
Pumps may discharge to  the sanitary सीवर  in older installations .
Once considered acceptable , this practice may now violate the plumbing code or municipal bylaws , because it can  overwhelm the नगरपालिका मलजल उपचार  system .
municipalities urge homeowners  to disconnect and reroute sump pump discharge away from sanitary sewers .
Fines may be  imposed लिये noncompliance  .
Many homeowners have inherited  उनके sump पंप configurations और  do not realize that the pump discharges to the sewer .
If the discharge is fed to a laundry sink in the basement , it 's  संभावित going to the सीवर  .
Usually hardwired into a  घर 's विद्युत प्रणाली , sump  pumps may have a battery backup .
The home 's pressurized water supply powers some pumps , eliminating the need for electricity at  the व्यय of using potable जल , potentially बनाना उन्हें  more expensive to operate than electrical pumps and creating an additional water disposal problem .
Since a sump basin may overflow if not constantly pumped , a backup  प्रणाली is महत्वपूर्ण लिये मामले  when the main power is out for prolonged periods of time , as during a severe storm .
There are generally two types of sump pumps —  pedestal और submersible  .
The pedestal pump 's motor is  आरोहित ऊपर the  sump , where it is more easily serviced , but is also more conspicuous .
The pump impeller is driven by a long , vertical extension shaft and the impeller is in a scroll housing in  the आधार of the पंप .
The submersible pump is entirely mounted inside the sump , and is specially sealed to  prevent विद्युत  short circuits .
Sump pump systems are also utilized in industrial and commercial applications to control  जल तालिका -सुनानाd  problems in surface soil .
An artesian aquifer or periodic high water table situation can cause  the मैदान to become  unstable due to water saturation .
As long as the  पंप कृत्यों , the सतह मृदा  will remain stable .
These sumps are typically ten feet in depth or more ;  lined साथ corrugated मेटल पाइप कि contains  perforations or drain holes throughout .
They may include electronic control systems with visual and audible alarms and are usually covered to  prevent मलबा और पशु  from falling in .
Bleeding Kansas , Bloody Kansas or the Border War , was a series of violent political confrontations involving anti-slavery  free-staters और pro-slavery `` किनारा ruffian `` तत्व , कि took प्लेस in the कान्सास territory  and the neighboring towns of Missouri between 1854 and 1861 .
At the heart of the  विरोध थी the  question of whether Kansas would enter the Union as a free state or slave state .
As such , Bleeding  कान्सास थी a  proxy war between Northerners and Southerners over the issue of slavery in the United States .
The term `` Bleeding Kansas '' was  coined by होरेस greeley of the  New York Tribune ; the events it encompasses directly presaged the American Civil War .
Congress had long struggled to balance the interests of  pro-slavery शक्तियां और anti-slavery  forces .
The events later known as Bleeding Kansas were set into motion by the Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854 , which nullified the Missouri Compromise and instead implemented the concept  of लोकप्रिय प्रभुता  .
An ostensibly democratic idea , popular sovereignty stated that the inhabitants of each territory or state should decide whether it would be a free or  स्लेव राज्य ; however , इस resulted in आव्रजन  en masse to Kansas by activists from both sides .
at एक पाइंट , कान्सास था दो  separate governments , each with its own constitution , although only one was federally recognized .
On January 29 , 1861 , Kansas was admitted to the Union as a free state , less than three months before the Battle of  फोर्ट sumter जिससे began the सिविल युद्ध .
Benzene is an organic chemical compound  साथ the आणविक सूत्र  C6 H|Hydrogen|H6 .
Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring , with 1 hydrogen  अणु संलग्न to प्रत्येक कार्बन अणु  .
Because its molecules contain only carbon and  हाइड्रोजन अणु , बेंजीन is classed as  a hydrocarbon .
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil , and is one of the  सबसे मौलिक petrochemicals  .
बेंजीन is an खुशबूदार हाइड्रोकार्बन और  the second [ n ] - annulene ( [ 6 ] -annulene ) , a cyclic hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond .
It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H . Benzene is a colorless and highly  ज्वलनशील द्रव साथ a मीठी  smell .
It is mainly used as a precursor to heavy chemicals , such as ethylbenzene and  cumene , जिससे हैं उत्पादित  on a billion kilogram scale .
Because it has a high octane number , it is an important component of  गैसोलीन , composing a few प्रतिशत of  its mass .
Most  non-industrial अनुप्रयोग  have been limited by benzene 's carcinogenicity .
Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli ( ; 14 March 1835 – 4 July 1910 ) was an Italian  astronomer और विज्ञान इतिहासकार  .
Wii homebrew refers to the reuse of Nintendo 's Wii game console to  चलाएं तन्त्र कि रै नहीं महरूम प्राधिकृत by  Nintendo .
It achieves this by  defeating the वी 's नक़ल सुरक्षा और  code signing measures .
In more general terms , Wii  homebrew refers to the उपयोग of the  Wii 's hardware , accessories and software for purposes outside those intended by the manufacturer .
Original efforts focused on using the Wii Remote as a  इंगित यंत्र on  other operating systems , or running web-based games in the built-in web browser .
Subsequent developments in games exploits , such as the `` Twilight hack `` , `` Bannerbomb '' and its later incarnation `` LetterBomb '' , `` Smash Stack '' , `` Indiana Pwns '' , `` Yu-Gi-OWNED '' , `` bathaxx '' , and `` Return of the Jodi  '' , बना installing the `` homebrew चैनल `` संभावित  .
Hadley ( right )  discussing the  2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis with Bush and Rice .
Stephen John Hadley ( born February 13 , 1947 ) was the 21st U.S. Assistant to the President for National  सुरक्षा अफेयर्स ( commonly referred as नेशनल सुरक्षा सलाहकार  ) , serving under President George W. Bush .
Take  एकसमान growing पौधे और दे  fertilizer to half of them .
If there are differences between the fertilized  संयंत्र समूह और the unfertilized  `` control '' group , these differences may be due to the fertilizer .
A scientific control is an experiment or observation  designed to minimize the प्रभाव  of variables other than the single independent variable .
This increases the reliability of the results ,  प्रायः  through a comparison between control measurements and the other measurements .
वैज्ञानिक नियंत्रण  are a part of the scientific method .
For  उदाहरण  , during drug testing , scientists will try to control two groups to keep them as identical as possible , then allow one group to try the drug .
Another example might be testing plant fertilizer by giving it to only half the plants in a garden : the plants that receive no fertilizer are the control group , because  वे स्थापित the बेसलाइन स्तर of विकास कि the fertilizer-treated पौधे होगा  be compared against .
Without a control group , the experiment can not determine  whether the fertilizer-treated पौधे  grow more than they would have if untreated .
Ideally , all  परिवर्तनीय in an प्रयोग होगा be नियंत्रित  ( accounted for by the control measurements ) and none will be uncontrolled .
In such an experiment , if all  the नियंत्रण कार्य as अपेक्षित , it is संभावित to conclude  that the experiment is working as intended and that the results of the experiment are due to the effect of the variable being tested .
That is , scientific  नियंत्रण allow an अन्वेषक to मेक a अर्जी  like `` Two situations were identical until factor X occurred .
Since factor X is the only difference  between  the two situations , the new outcome was caused by factor X . ''
< < Chemical  तत्व  data references
John Adams  ( अक्तूबर 30 , 1735 ( o.s . अक्तूबर 19 , 1735 )  – July 4 , 1826 ) was the second president of the United States ( 1797–1801 ) , having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States .
An American Founding Father , he was a statesman , diplomat , and a leading  एडवोकेट of अमरीकी स्वतंत्रता इससे ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  .
Well educated , he  थी an आत्मज्ञान राजनैतिक theorist जो  promoted republicanism and wrote prolifically about his often seminal ideas , both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of the American  क्रान्ति  .
A lawyer and public figure in Boston  , as a प्रतिनिधि इससे मैसाचुसेट्स  to the Continental Congress , he played a leading role in persuading Congress to declare independence .
He assisted Thomas Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of  स्वतंत्रता in 1776 , और थी इसके प्राथमिक  advocate in the Congress .
बाद , as a राजनयिक in यूरोपीय , he helped negotiate  the eventual peace treaty with Great Britain , and was responsible for obtaining vital governmental loans from Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist and historian  , एडम्स largely लिखा the  Massachusetts Constitution in 1780 , which together with his earlier Thoughts on Government , influenced American political thought .
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775 , he nominated George Washington to be  commander-in-chief , और 25 सालो बाद मनोनीत जॉन मार्शल to be मुख्य इंसाफ of the संयुक्त  States .
Adams ' revolutionary credentials secured him two terms as George Washington 's  वाइस अध्यक्ष और उसके अपना चुनाव in 1796 as the  second president .
During his one term ,  he encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian republicans , as  well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts , and  निर्मित up the फौज और नेवी विशेषकर in the  face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major accomplishment of  उसके प्रेसिडेंसी थी उसके शांतिपूर्ण रेज़ोल्यूशन  of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In  1800 , एडम्स थी पराजित  for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts .
He later resumed his  दोस्ती साथ  Jefferson .
He and  उसके बीवी , अबीगैल एडम्स ,  founded an accomplished family line of politicians , diplomats , and historians now referred to as the Adams political family .
Adams was  the पिता of जॉन क्विंसी  Adams , the sixth President of the United States .
His achievements have  प्राप्त वृहद मान्यता in आधुनिक टाइम्स  , though his contributions were not initially as celebrated as those of other Founders .
Adams was the first U.S. president  to reside in the भवन कि आखिरकार  became known as the White House .
A Watt steam  इंजन  .
The  भाप इंजन , fuelled  primarily by coal , propelled the Industrial Revolution in Great Britain and the world .
The Industrial Revolution was the transition to new manufacturing processes that occurred in the period from about 1760 to  कुछ समय between 1820 और 1840 .
This transition included going from hand production methods to machines , new chemical manufacturing and iron production processes , improved  दक्षता of जल शक्ति , the  increasing use of steam power and development of machine tools .
The transition  भी शामिल the बदलें  from wood and other bio-fuels to coal .
The Industrial revolution began in Britain and within a few decades  स्प्रेड to पश्चिमी यूरोपीय  and the United States .
The Industrial Revolution  marks a प्रमुख turning पाइंट  in history ; almost every aspect of daily life was influenced in some way .
Most notably , average income and population began to exhibit  unprecedented sustained विकास  .
In the words of Nobel Prize winner Robert E. Lucas , Jr. , `` For the first time in history , the living  मानकों of the masses of ordinary लोगों have begun to undergo sustained विकास ... nothing  remotely like this economic behavior is mentioned by the classical economists , even as a theoretical possibility . ''
William  घंटी स्कॉट आयरन  and Coal , 1855-60
The period of time  covered by the औद्योगिक  Revolution varies with different historians .
Eric Hobsbawm held that it 'broke out ' in Britain in the 1780s and was not fully felt until the 1830s or 1840s , while T. S. Ashton held that  it occurred roughly between 1760 और  1830 .
Some 20th-century historians such as John Clapham and Nicholas Crafts have argued  कि the प्रक्रम of आर्थिक और सोशल बदलें took प्लेस धीरे  and the term revolution is a misnomer .
This is still a subject of  बहस among इतिहासकारों  .
GDP per capita was broadly stable before the  औद्योगिक क्रान्ति और the emergence  of the modern capitalist economy .
The Industrial Revolution began an era  of per-capita आर्थिक विकास in  capitalist economies .
Economic historians are in agreement that the onset of the Industrial Revolution is the most important event in  the इतिहास of मानवता चूंकि  the domestication of animals and plants .
The First Industrial Revolution evolved into the Second Industrial Revolution in the transition years between 1840 and 1870 , when technological and economic progress gained momentum with the  increasing अपनाना of steam-powered नौकाएँ , जहाजों और रेल , the विशाल स्केल manufacture of यंत्र  tools and the increasing use of steam powered factories .
Juliet AnnMarie Huddy ( born September 27 , 1969 ) ,  is an अमरीकी टेलीविज़न  news reporter , currently appearing on Fox News Channel .
This list ranks U.S. cities by land area (  नहीं सहित  bodies of water ) .
Total  क्षेत्रों ( सहित जल ) हैं भी  given , but note that , when ranked by total area , a number of coastal cities appear disproportionately `` larger '' .
San Francisco is an extreme example ; water makes up nearly 80 % of its total area of 232  वर्गाकार मील ( 601  km2 ) .
Note also that in many cases a city may be  geographically विशाल primarily क्युकी इसके नगरपालिका  government has merged with the government of the surrounding county .
In some cases the county no longer  exists , जबकि  in others the arrangement has formed a Consolidated city–county ( or city- borough in Alaska , or city- parish in Louisiana ) .
ये हैं दिखाया in बिंदास in  the list below ( but not all examples may be indicated ) .
** These  हैं स्वतंत्र शहरों  , meaning they are not a part of any county .
The large  आंत ( or bowel , कोलन )  is the last part of the digestive system in vertebrate animals .
Its  फलन is  to absorb water from the remaining indigestible food matter , and then to pass useless waste material from the body .
इस आलेख is primarily  about the human gut , though the information about its processes are directly applicable to most mammals .
The large  आंत consists  of the cecum , rectum and anal canal .
It starts in the right  iliac प्रदेश of the pelvis , बस at  or below the right waist , where it is joined to the bottom end of the small intestine .
From  यहाँ it continues up the उदर  , then across the width of the abdominal cavity , and then it turns down , continuing to its endpoint at the anus .
The large intestine  is परिचय long ,  which is about one-fifth of the whole length of the intestinal canal .
In Terminologia  anatomica the विशाल आंत  includes the cecum , colon , rectum , and anal canal .
However ,  कुछ स्त्रोत  exclude the anal canal .
The Green Bay  पैकर्स हैं an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल  team based in Green Bay , Wisconsin .
They are members of the North Division of the National Football  सम्मेलन ( nfc ) in  the National Football League ( NFL ) .
Green Bay is the  third-oldest मताधिकार  in the NFL , having been organized and playing in 1919 .
The Packers are the only non-profit , community-owned major  लीग पेशेवर खेल  team in the United States .
The Packers are the last vestige of `` small town teams '' that were once common in the NFL  दौरान the 1920s और 1930s  .
Founded in 1919 by Earl `` Curly '' Lambeau ( hence the name Lambeau Field on which the team plays ) and George Whitney Calhoun ,  the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स  can trace their lineage to other semi-professional teams in Green Bay dating back to 1896 .
In 1919 and 1920 the Packers competed as a  semi-professional फ़ुटबॉल टोली विरूद्ध  clubs from around Wisconsin and the Midwest .
They joined the American Professional Football Association ( APFA ) in 1921 , the forerunner to what is known today as the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग (  NFL ) .
Although Green Bay is  the  last NFL `` small town '' team , its local fan base and media extends into nearby Milwaukee ; the team also played selected home games there between 1933 and 1994 .
The Green Bay  पैकर्स have जीती 13 लीग championships ( अधिक  than any other team in the NFL ) , including nine NFL championships prior to the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowl victories —in 1967 ( Super Bowl I ) , 1968 ( Super Bowl II ) , 1997 ( Super Bowl XXXI ) and 2011 ( Super Bowl XLV ) .
The Packers have long-standing , bitter rivalries with their NFC North ( formerly the NFC Central ) opponents , the Chicago  bears , मिनेसोटा वाइकिंग्स और the डेट्रॉयट  Lions .
The Bears-Packers  फंसने is एक of the oldest rivalries  in NFL history , dating back to 1921 .
The San Fernando Valley ( locally known as `` The Valley '' ) is an urbanized valley located in the Los Angeles metropolitan area of southern California , United States , defined by the  kyu of the अनुप्रस्थ  Ranges circling it .
Home to 1.76 million  लोगों , it झूठ उत्तर  of the larger and more populous Los Angeles Basin .
Nearly two thirds of the Valley 's land area is part of  the नगर of लॉस एंजिल्स  .
the अन्य  incorporated cities in the valley are Glendale , Burbank , San Fernando , Hidden Hills and Calabasas .
San  फर्नांडो  Valley , Los Angeles
The exterior of the  वर्तमान संसार  of Coca-Cola at Pemberton Place .
The World of Coca-Cola , is a permanent exhibition  featuring the इतिहास of the coca-cola  Company .
Its  well-known विज्ञापन as खूब as a मेजबान of entertainment  areas and attractions , and is located in Atlanta , Georgia ( where the company 's headquarters are located ) at Pemberton Place ( named in honor of John Pemberton , the inventor of Coca-Cola ) .
as भाग  of Georgia 's museums .
the complex located across Baker Street from Centennial Olympic Park  कि is घर to the जॉर्जिया एक्वेरियम और  future Center for Civil & Human Rights .
It opened to the public on May  24 , 2007 , relocating इससे और  replacing the original exhibit .
Pretties is a 2005 science fiction novel and the  दूसरी किताब of the uglies  Trilogy written by Scott Westerfeld .
It is set in a future dystopian world in which everyone is turned ``  pretty '' by चरम कॉस्मेटिक सर्जरी  upon reaching age 16 .
It tells the story of teenager Tally Youngblood  जो विद्रोहियों विरूद्ध  society 's enforced conformity .
Susan Leigh Vaughan Smith ( born September 26 , 1971 ) is an American woman sentenced to life in  थाना लिये murdering उसके children  .
Born in Union , South Carolina , and a former student of the University of South Carolina Union , she was convicted on July 22 , 1995 for  murdering उसके दो बेटे , 3-year-old माइकल  Daniel Smith , born October 10 , 1991 , and 14-month-old Alexander Tyler Smith , born August 5 , 1993 .
The case gained worldwide attention shortly after it developed , due to her claiming that a black man stole her car and  kidnapped  her sons .
She later claimed that she suffered  इससे दिमागी स्वास्थ्य मुद्दे  that impaired her judgment .
According to the South Carolina Department of Corrections , Smith will be eligible for parole on November 4  , 2024 , बाद सेवारत a न्यूनतम of तीस सालो  .
She is incarcerated at South Carolina  's leath correctional संस्था  , near Greenwood .
Mount  mckinley ( भी ज्ञात as denali लिया इससे the इनुइट koyukon athabaskan भाषा  meaning `` The Great One '' ) is the highest mountain peak in the United States and in North America with a summit elevation of above sea level .
At some , the base to peak rise is  माना the largest of कोई पहाड़  situated entirely above sea level .
measured by स्थलाकृतिक  prominence , it is the third most prominent peak after Mount Everest and Aconcagua .
Located in the Alaska Range in the  आंतरिक of us राज्य  of Alaska , it is the centerpiece of Denali National Park and Preserve .
The first European to document sighting the mountain was George  वैंकूवर in 1794 .
In  1903 , जेम्स  Wickersham recorded the first attempt at climbing McKinley which was unsuccessful .
In 1906 , Frederick Cook claimed the first ascent  जिससे थी बाद  proven to be false .
the पहला verifiable ascent to mckinley 's समिट  was achieved on June 7 , 1913 by climbers Hudson Stuck , Harry Karstens , Walter Harper , and Robert Tatum .
In 1951 ,  ब्रैडफोर्ड washburn pioneered the वेस्ट buttress रूट माना to  be the safest and easiest route and therefore the most popular currently in use .
The Honda S600  is an ऑटोमोबाइल  manufactured by Honda .
It  थी शुभारम्भ  in March 1964 .
Available  as a roadster – bearing दमदार प्रतिरूप to the होंडा s500 – और  as a fastback coupé – introduced in March 1965 – the S600 was the first Honda available in two trim levels .
During its production run up to 1966 , the model styling would  remain pretty much the वही ,  with the most notable changes coming to the front grille , bumper , and headlights .
Powered by a DOHC , water-cooled ,  four-cylinder इनलाइन इंजन साथ  four carburetors , the engine capacity was increased to 606 cc from the S500 's 531 cc .
The engine produced at 8,500 rpm and had  a शीर्ष गति of  .
With the convertible  weighing in at mere , the अतिरिक्त चादर मेटल  of the coupe only added to the overall weight .
Suspension was independent with sealed  रोलर कड़ी ड्राइव to प्रत्येक  rear wheel .
The S600 was  the पहला द्रव्यमान  marketed Honda car .
First offered only in right-hand drive , it soon became  उपलब्धियाँ in left-hand ड्राइव to अपील to निर्यात  markets .
There were a few pre-production S500s manufactured in left hand drive , two or  तीन भी होने दिखाया in  some early sales brochures .
Both the S600 roadster and coupé were available in standard trim and a special , upgraded package called the SM600 which included , among other items , special paint colors , exclusive badging , a standard radio and speaker , a  खास एंटीना in the यात्री पक्ष सूर्य छज्जा , मानक reversing लाइट्स , a मानक सिगरेट  lighter , a standard heater , better cushioned seats , and a detachable seat track for quick removal of the passenger seat .
Honda built 3,912  roadsters in 1964 , साथ उत्पादन चढ़ाई to 7,261 convertibles  and 1,519 coupes in 1965 .
Production dropped off in 1966 ( as they were shifting to the S800 ) with only 111 roadsters and 281 coupes ,  giving tallies of 11,284 convertibles और 1,800 coupes लिये the 3 साल स्पैन  .
Everybody Hates Chris is an American television period sitcom that depicts the  teenage अनुभवों of हास्य क्रिस चट्टान ( जो  is also the narrator ) while growing up in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn , New York .
The show is set  between 1983  and 1987 ; however , Rock himself was a teenager between 1978 and 1983 .
Rock grew up with a boy named Kenny Montero , whom he has often referred to  as the प्रेरणा  for a lot of the episodes .
In  अनेक साक्षात्कार  , Rock has described Kenny as the reason he got into comedy in the first place .
The show 's  शीर्षक parodies the सीबीएस sitcom  Everybody Loves Raymond .
Rock stated : `` Everybody  loves रेमंड लकिन everybody hates  Chris ! `` .
The show 's lead actors are Tyler James Williams , Terry Crews ,  tichina अर्नाल्ड , tequan रिचमंड ,  Imani Hakim , and Vincent Martella .
In Fall 2008 , the The CW moved Everybody Hates Chris and The  खेल to the शुक्रवार रात्रि मौत  slot .
The fourth season of the series premiered Friday , October 3 ,  2008 , at 8:00pm eastern/7:00pm  Central .
On  may 21 , 2009  , The CW announced that it had cancelled Everybody Hates Chris .
Prior to this , executive producer Chris Rock announced that the end of season 4 matched up with his own  past—dropping आउट of ऊँची स्कूल to become a comedian—and कि  it was time to end the show .
Pleural  उत्सर्ग is excess द्रव कि accumulates  between the two pleural layers , the fluid-filled space that surrounds the lungs .
Excessive amounts of such  द्रव can impair श्वास by limiting  the expansion of the lungs during ventilation .
Beowulf ( ; in Old English or ) is the conventional title of an Old English heroic epic poem consisting of 3182 alliterative long  लाइनों , नियत in scandinavia , commonly cited as एक of  the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature .
it survives in  a single manuscript known as the Nowell Codex .
Its  संयोजन by an बेनाम  Anglo-Saxon poet is dated between the 8th and the early 11th century .
In 1731 , the manuscript was badly damaged by a  आग कि swept through a भवन आवास a संग्रहण  of Medieval manuscripts assembled by Sir Robert Bruce Cotton .
The poem fell into obscurity for decades , and its existence did not become widely known again  जबतक it थी मुद्रित in 1815 in an संस्करण prepared by the icelandic-danish  scholar Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin .
In the poem , Beowulf , a hero of the Geats in Scandinavia , comes to the help of Hroðgar , the  किंग of the danes , जिनकी मीड हॉल ( in heorot ) रै महरूम अंतर्गत  attack by a monster known as Grendel .
After Beowulf  जानबूझ उसे , grendel  's mother attacks the hall and is then also defeated .
Victorious , Beowulf goes home to Geatland in Sweden and later  becomes किंग of the  Geats .
After a period of fifty years has passed ,  बियोवुल्फ़ defeats  a dragon , but is fatally wounded in the battle .
बाद उसके मौत , उसके सेवकों  bury him in a tumulus , a burial mound , in Geatland .
Shem  हैम और japheth by  James Tissot 1904 .
Shem ( ; Sēm ; Arabic : Sām ; Ge'ez : ሴም , Sēm ; `` renown ; prosperity ; name '' ) was one of the sons  of नूह in the यहूदी बाइबल as खूब as in इस्लामी  literature .
He is most  popularly regarded as  the eldest son , though some traditions regard him as the second son .
Genesis 10:21 refers to relative ages of Shem and his  bhai  Japheth , but with sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different translations .
The verse is translated in the KJV as `` Unto Shem also , the father of all the children of Eber , the brother of Japheth the elder ,  भी to उसे यहूद children born .  `` .
However , the New American Standard Bible gives , `` Also to Shem , the father of all the  children of eber , और the पुरानी bhai of japheth , children यहूद  born . ''
Genesis 11:10 records that Shem was still 100 years old at the birth of Arphaxad , (  लकिन nearly 101 - देखिए कालक्रम  note , ) two years after the flood , making him barely 99 at the time the flood began ; and that he lived for another 500 years after this , making his age at death 600 years .
The children of Shem were Elam , Asshur ,  arphaxad , lud , और aram , in जोड  to daughters .
Abraham , the  patriarch of the hebrews और  Arabs , was one of the descendants of Arphaxad .
Islamic  साहित्य  describes Shem as one of the believing sons of Noah .
Some sources even identify Shem  as a नबी in उसके अपना सही  and that he was the next prophet after his father .
In one Muslim legend , Shem was one of  the लोगों कि परमेश्वर बना यीशु  resurrect as a sign to the Children of Israel .
The 1st century historian  flavius josephus , among अनेक अन्य , recounted the परंपरा कि  these five sons were the progenitors of the nations of Elam , Assyria , Chaldea , Lydia , and Syria , respectively .
Semitic is still a commonly used term for the Semitic languages , as a subset of the Afro-Asiatic languages , denoting  the आम भाषाई विरासत of अरबी , aramaic , अक्कादी  , Ethiopic , Hebrew and Phoenician languages .
According to some Jewish traditions ( e.g. , B. Talmud Nedarim 32b ; Genesis Rabbah 46:7 ; Genesis Rabbah 56:10 ; Leviticus Rabbah 25:6 ; Numbers Rabbah 4:8 . ) , Shem is believed to have been Melchizedek , King of Salem whom Abraham is recorded to have met  बाद the बैटल of  the four kings .
In a  few of the अनेक extra-biblical  sources that describe him , Shem is also credited with killing Nimrod , son of Cush .
Shem is mentioned in  उत्पत्ति 5:32 , 6:10 ; 7:13 ; 9:18,23,26-27  ; 10 ; 11:10 ; also in 1 Chronicles 1:4 .
Geographic  identifications of flavius  Josephus , c. 100 AD ; Japheth 's sons shown in red , Ham 's sons in blue , Shem 's sons in green .
Go Daddy or Go Daddy Group Inc. is  a privately आयोजित कम्पनी कि is primarily  an internet domain registrar and web hosting company .
Go Daddy Group Inc. filed for an IPO in 2006 , but later canceled  it , due to `` मार्केट  uncertainties '' .
In addition to domain  पंजीकरण और होस्टिंग go  Daddy also sells e-business related software and services .
On June 24 , 2011 , The Wall  गली जर्नल reported कि private-equity  firms KKR and Silver Lake Partners , along with a third investor , were nearing a deal to buy the company for between $ 2–2.5 billion .
On July 1 , 2011 Go Daddy confirmed that KKR ,  चांदी झील साझेदार  and Technology Crossover Ventures had closed the deal .
Although the purchase price was not  officially घोषित it  was reported to be $ 2.25 billion , for 65 % of the company .
, Bob Parsons had ceded the CEO role of Go Daddy to Warren  adelman , जो था महरूम साथ the कम्पनी लिये परिचय 10  years .
The  andorran कोट of  arms at the Andorran parliament .
Andorra ( ; , ) ,  officially the principality of अंडोरा ( ) , भी पुकारा the principality  of the Valleys of Andorra , ( ) , is a landlocked microstate in Southwestern Europe , located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France .
It is the sixth smallest nation in Europe , having an  क्षेत्रफल of और an अनुमानित जनसांख्यिकी  of 85,000 in 2012 .
Its capital , Andorra la Vella , is the  उच्चतम पूंजी नगर in यूरोपीय , at an उन्नयन  of above sea level .
The official language is Catalan , although Spanish ,  पुर्तगाली , और फ्रेंच हैं भी  commonly spoken .
Created under a charter in 988 , the present  principality थी formed in 1278  .
It is known as a principality as it is a monarchy headed by two co-princes – the Bishop of  urgell और the अध्यक्ष of  France .
Andorra is a prosperous  देश मुख्यतः क्युकी of इसके पर्यटन उद्योग , जिससे सेवाएं  an estimated 10.2 million visitors annually , and also because of its status as a tax haven .
It is not a member of the European Union , but the euro  is the de facto  currency .
The people of Andorra have the  4th उच्चतम इंसान  life expectancy in the world — 82 years at birth .
The George Washington University ( GW ,  gwu , or जार्ज वॉशिंगटन ) is a व्यापक निजी , coeducational शोध विश्वविद्यालयों  located in Washington , D.C. .
It awards certificates ,  स्नातक डिग्री , मास्टर्स  degrees , and PhDs across several dozen disciplines .
The university was chartered by an Act of Congress on February 9 ,  1821 as the columbian कॉलेज in the ज़िला  of Columbia .
Kimberly Noel `` Kim '' Kardashian ( born October 21 , 1980 )  is an अमरीकी socialite  , television personality and occasional actress .
In 2007 , she gained notoriety as the subject of a sex tape that  subsequently resulted in a अदालत awarding  her $ 5 million ; later in that same year , she and her family rose to prominence with their E !
reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians , and its  subsequent spin-offs , सहित कोर्टनी और  Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami .
In 2010 ,  कार्दशियन  was the highest-earning reality star , with estimated earnings of $ 6 million .
With  बहनों कोर्टनी  and Khloé , Kardashian co-owns the fashion boutique chain D-A-S-H .
She has been involved  in the उत्पादन  of several lines of clothing and fragrances .
In August 2011 , Kardashian married basketball  खिलाड़ी क्रिस humphries in a  widely publicized ceremony .
That  अक्तूबर  , Kardashian filed for divorce following 72 days of marriage .
The move garnered significant backlash from  the मीडिया , जो labeled it a  `` publicity stunt '' .
After 536 days ,  कार्दशियन और humphries पहुँचे an अघोषित उपनिवेश  at the Los Angeles Superior Court , finalizing the divorce in April 2013 .
aerial दृश्य of oahu साथ  freeways and highways , 3D computer-generated image
Fly-around tour of  the द्वीप
Oahu ( ) or  oahu , ज्ञात as `` the महफ़िल प्लेस '' , is the  third largest of the Hawaiian Islands and the most populous of the islands in the U.S. state of Hawaii .
The state capital  , होनोलूलू  , is on Oahu 's southeast coast .
Including small close-in offshore islands such as Ford Island and the  आइलैंड्स in kaneohe खाड़ी और बंद the पूर्वी ( windward ) coast , it रै a कुल जमीन  area of , making it the 20th largest island in the United States .
In the greatest dimension  , इस volcanic द्वीप  is long and across .
The length  of  the shoreline is .
The island is the result of two separate shield volcanoes : Waianae and Koolau , with a broad `` valley ''   or saddle ( the central Oahu Plain ) between them .
the उच्चतम पाइंट is mt  . Ka'ala in the Waianae Range , rising to above sea level .
The base currency  of the संयुक्त राज्य is the u.S.  dollar , and is printed on bills in denominations of $ 1 , $ 2 , $ 5 , $ 10 , $ 20 , $ 50 , and $ 100 .
At one time , however  , u.S. करेंसी शामिल  five larger denominations .
Notes in the  denominations of $ 500 , $ 1,000  , $ 5,000 , and $ 10,000 were printed for general use , and a $ 100,000 note was printed for certain internal transactions .
British Honduras was a British  उपनिवेश in सेंट्रल  America .
In 1981 , the colony gained  पूरा स्वतंत्रता , और  is now the independent nation of Belize .
First colonised by Spaniards in the 17th century , the territory  on the ईस्ट coast of सेंट्रल अमेरिका , दक्षिण of मैक्सिको , became  a British crown colony in 1862 .
In 1964 ,  it became a  self-governing colony .
बेलीज़ became  fully independent from the United Kingdom in 1981 .
Belize  थी the पिछला महाद्वीपीय  possession of the United Kingdom in the Americas .
Spelt , also known as dinkel wheat , or hulled wheat , is an  प्राचीन प्रजाति of गेहूं इससे the  fifth millennium BC .
Spelt was an important staple in parts of Europe from the Bronze Age to medieval times ; it now  survives as a relict क्रॉप in सेंट्रल यूरोपीय और उत्तरी  Spain and has found a new market as a health food .
Spelt is sometimes considered  a subspecies of the closely सम्बन्धित प्रजाति आम गेहूं  ( T. aestivum ) , in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp . spelta .
It is a hexaploid wheat , which means it has  छह सेट of गुणसूत्रों  .
Sherlock Holmes ( or ) is a fictional detective created by  लेखक और चिकित्सक  Sir Arthur Conan Doyle .
A London-based `` consulting detective '' whose abilities border on the fantastic , Holmes is famous for his astute logical  तर्क , उसके क्षमता to अपनाना लगभग कोई भेस , और उसके उपयोग of forensic विज्ञान कौशल to solve  difficult cases .
Holmes , who first appeared in publication  in 1887 , थी प्रदर्शित in चार novels  and 56 short stories .
The first novel , A Study in Scarlet , appeared in  beeton 's क्रिसमस सालाना in 1887 और  the second , The Sign of the Four , in Lippincott 's Monthly Magazine in 1890 .
The character grew tremendously in popularity with the first series of short stories in The Strand Magazine , beginning with A Scandal in Bohemia in  1891 ; further श्रेणी of छोटी कहानियां और दो novels प्रकाशित in सीरियल रूप appeared  between then and 1927 .
The stories cover a period from around  1880 up to 1914  .
All but four stories are narrated by Holmes 's friend and  biographer , dr. जॉन H.  Watson ; two are narrated by Holmes himself ( `` The Blanched Soldier `` and `` The Lion 's Mane `` ) and two others are written in the third person ( `` The Mazarin Stone `` and `` His Last Bow `` ) .
In two stories ( `` The Musgrave Ritual `` and `` The Gloria Scott `` ) , Holmes tells Watson  the प्रमुख स्टोरी इससे उसके यादें , जबकि वाटसन  becomes the narrator of the frame story .
The first and fourth novels , A Study in Scarlet  और the घाटी of भय , प्रत्येक शामिल  a long interval of omniscient narration recounting events unknown to either Holmes or Watson .
The United States House of Representatives is one of the two houses of  the संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस ( a bicameral  legislature ) .
It is frequently referred  to as the  House .
The other  हाउस is the  Senate .
The composition and powers of the House are established in  आलेख एक of the  United States Constitution .
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the  सीनेट और further सहमत to by the u.S.  President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the legislation with a two-thirds majority in each chamber ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills , to impeach officials , and to elect  the u.S. अध्यक्ष in मामला वहीँ is no बहुमत in the  Electoral College .
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in  proportion to इसके  population but is entitled to at least one representative .
The most populous state ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , फिलहाल रै 53 प्रतिनिधि  .
The  कुल क्रमांक  of voting representatives is fixed by law at 435 .
Each  प्रतिनिधि  serves for a two-year term .
The Speaker of the  संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि , जो  presides over the chamber , is elected by the members of the House , and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The House  meets in the दक्षिण  wing of the United States Capitol .
Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S.-based Kraft Foods for a number of gelatin desserts , including fruit  gels , puddings और no-bake  cream pies .
The brand 's popularity has led to it  होने प्रयुक्त as a जेनेरिक  term for gelatin dessert across the U.S. and Canada .
Kennywood is an amusement park located in  वेस्ट mifflin , पेन्सिलवेनिया , a उपनगरीय of पिट्सबर्ग  .
The park first opened in 1898 as a `` trolley park  '' आकर्षण at the समाप्त of the mellon परिवार  's Monongahela Street Railway .
The park was purchased in 1906 by F. W. Henninger and Andrew McSwigan and thus began the Kennywood Entertainment  कम्पनी कि रै remained a closely आयोजित परिवार कारोबार लिये over  100 years .
This traditional amusement park still has  structures और यात्राएँ डेटिंग वापस to  its opening and the early 1900s .
Along with Rye Playland Park , it is one of only two amusement parks listed  in the नेशनल पंजीकरण of ऐतिहासिक  Places .
Kennywood is owned by Kennywood Entertainment Company , which until December 2007 was a closely held  परिवार कारोबार स्वामित्व by the henninger  and McSwigan families .
Kennywood  entertainment is अभी संचालित by california-based  Palace Entertainment , a subsidiary of Parques Reunidos , an international amusement park company based in Madrid , Spain .
Parque Reunidos is in turn a  subsidiary of candover  Investments , an investment fund based in the UK .
A Social Security card issued by the Railroad  रिटायरमेंट फलक in 1943 to a  now deceased person .
In the United States , a Social Security number ( SSN )  is a nine-digit क्रमांक जारी to u.S. नागरिकों , स्थाई निवासियों , और अस्थाई  ( working ) residents under section 205 ( c ) ( 2 ) of the Social Security Act , codified as .
The number is issued to an individual by  the सोशल सुरक्षा प्रशासन , an स्वतंत्र एजेंसी  of the United States government .
Its primary purpose is to  track individuals  for Social Security purposes .
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying on Form SS-5 , ``  अनुप्रयोग  for A Social Security Number Card '' .
Minimalism describes  आंदोलनों in विभिन्न फ़ॉर्म of आर्ट और डिज़ाइन , विशेषकर विज़ुअल आर्ट और  music , where the work is set out to expose the essence or identity of a subject through eliminating all non-essential forms , features or concepts .
Minimalism is any design or style in  जिससे the सरलतम और fewest  elements are used to create the maximum effect .
As a specific movement in the arts it is identified with developments in post–World  युद्ध ii पश्चिमी आर्ट , सबसे strongly साथ अमरीकी  visual arts in the 1960s and early 1970s .
prominent कलाकारों संबद्ध साथ इस गति शामिल डोनाल्ड judd , जॉन mccracken , agnes मार्टिन , डान flavin , रॉबर्ट मॉरिस , ऐनी truitt , और फ़्रैंक स्टेला  .
It is rooted in the reductive aspects of Modernism , and is often interpreted  as a प्रतिक्रिया विरूद्ध अमूर्त अभिव्यंजनावाद  and a bridge to Postminimal art practices .
The terms have expanded to encompass a movement in  म्यूज़िक जिससे सुविधाएँ repetition  and iteration , as in the compositions of La Monte Young , Terry Riley , Steve Reich , Philip Glass , and John Adams .
Minimalist compositions are sometimes  ज्ञात as प्रणालियों  music .
The term `` minimalist '' is often applied colloquially to  designate anything कि  is spare or stripped to its essentials .
It has also been used to describe the plays and novels of Samuel Beckett , the films of  रॉबर्ट bresson , the कहानियां of रेमंड carver ,  and even the automobile designs of Colin Chapman .
The word was first used in English in the  जल्दी 20th सदी to describe the  Mensheviks .
In  रसायन और भौतिकी , डाल्टन 's विधि ( भी पुकारा डाल्टन 's विधि of  partial pressures ) states that the total pressure exerted by the mixture of non-reactive gases is equal to the sum of the partial pressures of individual gases .
This empirical law was observed by John Dalton in 1801 and is related  to the आदर्श गैस  laws .
Mathematically , the  दबाव of a मिश्रण of गैसों  can be defined as the summation
or
where represent the partial  दबाव of प्रत्येक  component .
It is  assumed कि  the gases do not react with each other
where is the  mole भिन्न of the  i-th component in the total mixture of n components .
The relationship below provides a way to determine  the आवाज़ आधारित  concentration of any individual gaseous component
where is the  विशेषज्ञता of  the i-th component expressed in ppm .
डाल्टन 's विधि  is not exactly followed by real gases .
Those  deviations हैं  considerably large at high pressures .
in ऐसे शर्तें , the आवाज़ occupied  by the molecules can become significant compared to the free space between them .
In particular , the short average distances between molecules raises the intensity of  intermolecular शक्तियां between गैस  molecules enough to substantially change the pressure exerted by them .
Neither of those effects are  माना  by the ideal gas model .
This is a list of the largest United  राज्य कॉलेजों  and universities by enrollment for colleges and universities in the United States .
कया इस  list includes:
Colleges and universities within  the संयुक्त  States
University  प्रणालियों if the प्रणाली  is run under a single administration
Enrollment is the sum of the  headcount of undergraduate और ग्रैजुएट  students
Enrollment is counted by the Integrated  post-secondary शिक्षा प्रणाली  within the U.S. Department of Education .
Enrollment is the 12-month unduplicated headcount , indicating the number of unique  विद्यार्थी जो attended the विश्वविद्यालयों दौरान the  year .
What  इस सूची  does not include:
Any indication  of कैसा अनेक of the नामांकित विद्यार्थी हैं  full or part time ( e.g. , some universities may have a high enrollment , but have most students enrolled in only a single class )
For other lists that measure  विश्वविद्यालयों नामांकन , देखिए  the See Also section below .
`` Right Round '' is a song performed by American rapper Flo  rida , released  as the lead single from his second studio album , R.O.O.T.S . ( 2009 ) .
The song  सुविधाएँ अतिथि vocals इससे  Kesha .
It was released to radio on 27 January 2009 and was digitally  released on 10 फ़रवरी by पो लड़के entertainment और अटलांटिक रिकॉर्ड  .
The song lyrically speaks of Flo Rida 's net ball referee enthusiasm , while  adapting the कोरस of the 1984 मुर्दे or जिंदा सोंग ``  You Spin Me Round ( Like a Record ) `` in its hook .
According to one of the song 's writers , the chorus  refers to मौखिक  sex .
Kesha  contributed अतिथि vocals  to the song , but in the United States , during the run atop the chart , Kesha was uncredited .
The song received mostly  ऋणात्मक समीक्षाएँ इससे आलोचकों , जो  claimed it was kitsch and misogynistic .
However , it was a commercial success , reaching the  शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट  in nineteen countries worldwide .
In the United  राज्य , it became flo rida 's  second number-one single and broke the record for first-week sales when it was released to digital retailers .
The single 's accompanying music video was directed by Malcolm Jones and nominated for an MTV Video Music  पुरस्कार  .
the सोंग रै महरूम प्रयुक्त in अनेक फिल्मों  , such as The Hangover , The Ugly Truth and the Telugu movie Pilla Zamindar .
in the फिल्म पिच पूर्ण  , the song is performed by the a cappella group the Treblemakers .
The Chief Justice of the United States is the head of the United States federal court system ( the judicial branch of  the संघीय सरकारी of the संयुक्त राज्य ) और the मुख्य  judge of the Supreme Court of the United States .
The Chief Justice is one of nine Supreme Court  justices  ; the other eight are the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States .
From 1789 until  1866 , the दफ्तर  was known as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court .
The Chief Justice is the highest judicial officer in the country , and acts as a chief administrative officer for the federal courts and as head of the Judicial Conference of  the संयुक्त राज्य appoints the निदेशक of the  Administrative Office of the United States Courts .
The Chief Justice also serves as a spokesperson for  the न्यायिक शाखा  .
The Chief  इंसाफ लीड  the business of the Supreme Court .
He presides over oral  वितर्क पहले the  court .
When the court renders an  राय , the मुख्य justice—when  in the majority—decides who writes the court 's opinion .
The Chief Justice also has significant agenda-setting power over the  अदालत 's बैठक  .
In the case of an  महाभियोग of a अध्यक्ष of the  United States , which has occurred twice , the Chief Justice presides over the trial in the Senate .
In modern tradition , the Chief Justice has the ceremonial duty of  administering the शपथ of  office of the President of the United States .
the पहला  Chief Justice was John Jay .
the 17th  and current Chief Justice is John G. Roberts , Jr .
Caribou  निकट prudhoe  Bay , 1973
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field is a large oil  फ़ील्ड on अलास्का 's  North Slope .
It is the largest oil field in both the  संयुक्त राज्य और in उत्तर  America , covering and originally containing approximately of oil .
The amount  of recoverable आयल in the फ़ील्ड is अधिक than  double that of the next largest field in the United States , the East Texas oil field .
The field is operated by BP ; partners are ExxonMobil and  conocophillips अलास्का  .
Labor unions are  legally पहचाना as  representatives of workers in many industries in the United States .
Their activity  आज centers on सामूहिक bargaining over मजदूरी , लाभ  , and working conditions for their membership , and on representing their members in disputes with management over violations of contract provisions .
Larger unions also typically engage in lobbying activities and  electioneering  at the state and federal level .
Most unions in America are aligned with one of two larger umbrella organizations : the AFL-CIO created  in 1955 , और  the Change to Win Federation which split from the AFL-CIO in 2005 .
Both advocate  नीतियों और विधान on निमित्त of मजदूर in the संयुक्त राज्य  and Canada , and take an active role in politics .
The AFL-CIO is  विशेषकर  concerned with global trade issues .
In 2010 , the percentage of workers belonging  to a संघ in the संयुक्त राज्य ( or कुल  labor union `` density '' ) was 11.4 % , compared to 18.4 % in Germany , 27.5 % in Canada , and 70 % in Finland .
संघ सदस्यता  in the private sector has fallen under 7 % — levels not seen since 1932 .
Unions allege that  employer-incited विपक्ष रै  contributed to this decline in membership .
The most prominent unions are among public  सेक्टर कर्मचारी  such as teachers and police .
Members of  संघ हैं disproportionately पुरानी  , male and residents of the Northeast , the Midwest , and California .
Union workers average 10-30 % higher pay than non-union in America after  controlling लिये व्यक्तिगत  , job , and labor market characteristics .
Although much smaller compared to their peak membership in the 1950s  , अमरीकी संघ remain a prominent राजनैतिक फ़ैक्टर , दोनो through mobilization of उनके अपना सदस्यताएँ और through coalitions  with like-minded activist organizations around issues such as immigrant rights , trade policy , health care , and living wage campaigns .
To fight alleged employer anti-union programs , unions are currently advocating new `` card check `` federal legislation that would require employers to bargain with a union if more than 50 % of workers signed forms ,  or `` ताश , '' stating वे काश to be represented by कि  union .
The current procedure involves waiting 45 to 90 days for a federally supervised secret-ballot employee  referendum on the  subject .
The economist Joseph  stiglitz रै asserted कि , `` दमदार संघ have helped to  reduce inequality , whereas weaker unions have made it easier for CEOs , sometimes working with market forces that they have helped shape , to increase it . ''
the मनाही in unionization  since WWII in the United States has been associated with a pronounced rise in income and wealth inequality .
A Christian Lacroix fashion  बुटीक
A boutique is a small shopping outlet , especially one that specializes in  elite और फैशनेबल  items such as clothing and jewelry .
The word  is फ्रेंच लिये `` दूकान '' , via  Latin from Greek ἀποθήκη ( apothēkē ) , `` storehouse '' .
The term entered into everyday English use in the late 1960s when , for a brief period , London was the  केन्द्र of the फ़ैशन  trade .
Carnaby Street and the Kings Road were the focus of much media attention as home to the  सबसे फैशनेबल boutiques  of the era .
Now the East of London has  महरूम regenerated और अधिक boutiques  pop up in fashionable areas , such as Tower Bridge Road .
It can also refer to a specialised  कड़ ऐसे as a बुटीक  investment bank or boutique law firm .
The word is often used to describe a property in the  स्वतंत्र खण्ड of the होटल मार्केट ( ऐसे as the rockwell in लंदन  ) in order to distinguish themselves from larger chains ( such as Hilton Hotels ) .
In such cases the establishments  उद्देश्य to convey the विचार कि the  operation is elite and highly specialised .
In the strictest sense of the word , boutiques would be one-of-a-kind but more generally speaking , some chains can be referred to as  boutiques if वे  specialize in particular styles .
Recently , the term ``  बुटीक '' रै  started being applied to normally-mass-market items that are either niche or produced in intentionally small numbers at very high prices .
इस may be referred  to as boutique manufacturing .
For example , before the release of the Wii , a Time Magazine article suggested that Nintendo could become a `` boutique video-game company '' , producing games for niche audiences , rather than  trying to compete सीधे साथ microsoft  and Sony .
In the traditional luxury- watch  उद्योग scalfaro अंतरराष्ट्रीय is माना  as the precursor in manufacturing and sale of bespoke watches .
The Swiss company uses a highly flexible  बुटीक निर्माण  site , which allows producing small series or even unique timepieces .
Although some boutiques specialise in hand-made  वस्तुएं और अन्य truly one-of-a-kind वस्तुएं  , others simply produce t-shirts , stickers , and other fashion accessories in artificially small runs and sell them at unusually high prices .
In the early 1990s  सेलिना प्रारंभ निर्माण  her own line of women 's clothing .
Opening two boutiques labeled as `` Selena Etc . Boutique & Salon '' One located in Corpus  christi और एक स्तिथ  in San Antonio , Texas .
One was due  to खोलें in monterrey  , Mexico , in 1995 but due to her death it was not opened .
Around 1999 the San Antonio location  बंद और the कॉर्पस  Christi location was closed in 2009 .
In late 1990s some European  खुदरा व्यापारियों विकसित the विचार of tailoring  a shop towards a lifestyle theme , in the form of `` concept stores '' , which specialised in cross-selling without using separate departments .
One of the first concept stores was 10 Corso Como  in मिलान  , Italy followed by Colette in Paris and Quartier 206 in Berlin .
Several well-known American chains such as Urban  outfitters , d-a-s-h , और the गैप , ऑस्ट्रेलियाई कड़ी  Billabong and , though less common , Lord & Taylor adapted to the concept store trend after 2000 .
Navy Federal Credit Union ( or Navy Federal ) is a credit union headquartered in Vienna , Virginia , chartered and  regulated अंतर्गत the प्राधिकार of the नेशनल क्रेडिट संघ प्रशासन  ( NCUA ) of the U.S. federal government .
Navy Federal is the largest natural member ( or retail  ) क्रेडिट संघ in the संसार , दोनो  in asset size and in membership .
As of September 2012 , Navy Federal had  over  $ 50 billion USD in assets , and over 4 million members .
Stevland Hardaway Morris ( born May 13 , 1950 as Stevland Hardaway Judkins ) , known by his stage name Stevie Wonder , is an American singer , songwriter , and multi-instrumentalist , a child prodigy who developed into one of the most creative  musical आंकड़े of the लेट 20th सदी .
Blind since shortly after birth , Wonder signed with Motown  's tamla लेबल at the आयु of  eleven , and continues to perform and record for Motown to this day .
Among Wonder 's best known works are singles such as `` Superstition `` , `` Sir Duke `` , `` You Are the Sunshine of My Life `` and `` I  बस पुकारा to कह  I Love You `` .
Well known albums also include Talking  किताब , innervisions और गीतों in the  Key of Life .
He has recorded more than thirty U.S. top ten hits and received twenty-two Grammy Awards , the  सबसे  ever awarded to a male solo artist .
Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for political causes , including his 1980 campaign to  मेक मार्टिन लूथर किंग , jr. 's जन्मदिवस  a holiday in the United States .
In 2009 , Wonder was named a  संयुक्त राष्ट्र मेसेंजर  of Peace .
In 2008 , Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists to celebrate the US  singles चार्ट 's पचासवें वर्षगांठ , साथ अचरज  at number five .
By popular vote , Stevie was inducted into The  soulmusic हॉल of कीर्ति at soulmusic.com in  December 2012 .
Psychosis ( from the Greek ψυχή `` psyche '' , for mind/soul , and -ωσις `` -osis '' , for abnormal condition or derangement ) refers to an abnormal condition of the  दिमाग , और is a जेनेरिक मनोरोग पद लिये a दिमागी राज्य प्रायः वर्णित as involving a `` घाटा of  contact with reality `` .
People suffering  इससे मनस्ताप हैं वर्णित  as psychotic .
Psychosis is given to the more severe forms of psychiatric disorder , during which hallucinations and delusions , gross excitement or  बेहोशी और impaired इनसाइट  may occur .
The term `` psychosis '' is very broad and can mean anything from relatively normal aberrant experiences through to the  जटिल और catatonic expressions of schizophrenia  and bipolar type 1 disorder .
Moreover a wide variety of central nervous system diseases , from  दोनो बाह्य substances  and internal physiologic illness , can produce symptoms of psychosis .
This led many  पेशेवर to कह कि मनस्ताप is नहीं  specific enough as a diagnostic term .
Despite this , `` psychosis '' is generally given to noticeable deficits in normal behavior ( negative  लक्षण ) और अधिक  commonly to diverse types of hallucinations or delusional beliefs ( e.g . grandiosity , delusions of persecution ) .
Someone exhibiting very obvious signs may be described as `` frankly psychotic '' , whereas one exhibiting very  हल्का लक्षण could be वर्गीकृत in the श्रेणी of an ``  attenuated psychotic risk syndrome '' .
An excess in dopaminergic signalling is  traditionally linked to the धनात्मक लक्षण of मनस्ताप  , especially those of schizophrenia .
This is  विचार to occur through a यांत्रिकी of aberrant  salience of environmental stimuli .
Many antipsychotic  दवाएँ तदनुसार निशाना the dopamine प्रणाली ; meta-analyses of placebo-controlled  trials of these drugs , however , show either no significant difference between drug and placebo , or a very small effect size , suggesting that the pathophysiology of psychosis is much more complex than an overactive dopamine system .
People experiencing  मनस्ताप may प्रदर्शनी कुछ व्यक्तित्व परिवर्तन  and thought disorder .
Depending on its  गंभीरता , इस may be accompanied  by unusual or bizarre behavior , as well as difficulty with social interaction and impairment in carrying out daily life activities .
General Grievous is a fictional character  in the स्टार  Wars universe .
a पुनरावर्ती विपक्षी , he is the परम् कमांडर  of the Confederacy of Independent Systems , a political faction of planetary systems waging war on the Galactic Republic .
Trained in all seven forms of lightsaber combat by Count Dooku , he is a ruthless and powerful warrior devoted to Jedi 's  विनाश दौरान the क्लोन युद्धों  .
His acts of wanton aggression and high Jedi body count would  संकेत the आकाशगंगा to दे उसे the उपनाम  the Knightslayer .
Though the notorious  जेडी slayer थी the होने in the आकाशगंगा दौरान the क्लोन  Wars who had killed the most Jedi in single combat , he did not hesitate to flee from battles he knew he would lose .
Statistics play  an महत्वपूर्ण  role in summarizing baseball performance and evaluating players in the sport .
Since the flow of a baseball game has natural breaks to it , and normally players act individually rather than performing in clusters , the sport lends itself to easy  record-keeping और आंकडे  .
Statistics have  महरूम रखा लिये पेशेवर बेसबॉल चूंकि the सृष्टि  of the National League and American League , now part of Major League Baseball .
Many statistics are also available from outside of Major League Baseball , from leagues such as the  नेशनल संघ of पेशेवर आधार बॉल खिलाड़ी  and the Negro Leagues .
Dorothea Lange 's  migrant  Mother depicts destitute pea pickers in California , centering on Florence Owens Thompson , age 32 , a mother of seven children , in Nipomo , California , March 1936 .
USA annual real  जीडीपी इससे 1910–60 , साथ  the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
the बेरोजगारी रेट in the us 1910–1960  , with the years of the Great Depression ( 1929–1939 ) highlighted .
The Great Depression was a severe worldwide economic  अवसाद in the दशक preceding  World War II .
The timing of the Great Depression varied across nations , but in most  देशों it प्रारंभ in 1930 और  lasted until the late 1930s or middle 1940s .
It was the longest  , सबसे फैली  , and deepest depression of the 20th century .
In the 21st century , the Great Depression is commonly used as an  उदाहरण of कैसा दूर the संसार  's economy can decline .
The depression originated in the U.S. , after the fall in stock prices that began around September 4 , 1929 , and became  विश्वव्यापी न्यूज साथ the भण्डार मार्केट क्रैश  of October 29 , 1929 ( known as Black Tuesday ) .
The Great Depression had devastating  प्रभाव in देशों  rich and poor .
Personal income  , कर आय , profits  and prices dropped , while international trade plunged by more than 50 % .
बेरोजगारी in the u.S. रोज़ to 25 % ,  and in some countries rose as high as 33 % .
Cities all around the world were hit hard  , विशेषकर those निर्भर  on heavy industry .
Construction was virtually halted in  अनेक देशों .
Farming and rural areas suffered as crop prices fell by  लगभग  60 % .
Facing plummeting demand with few alternate sources of jobs , areas dependent on  प्राथमिक सेक्टर उद्योग ऐसे as नकदी cropping  , mining and logging suffered the most .
Some economies started to  रिकवर by  the mid-1930s .
In many countries , the  ऋणात्मक प्रभाव of the ग्रेट अवसाद  lasted until the end of World War II .
A premature ventricular contraction ( PVC ) , also known as a premature ventricular complex , ventricular premature contraction ( or complex or complexes ) ( VPC ) , ventricular  असामयिक ताल ( vpb ) , or ventricular extrasystole ( ves )  , is a relatively common event where the heartbeat is initiated by Purkinje fibres in the ventricles rather than by the sinoatrial node , the normal heartbeat initiator .
The electrical events of the heart detected by the electrocardiogram allow a PVC to be  easily विशिष्ट  from a normal heart beat .
A PVC may be  आभास as a `` छोड़ा  beat `` or felt as palpitations in the chest .
In a normal heartbeat , the ventricles contract  बाद the atria have helped to भरण उन्हें by contracting  ; in this way the ventricles can pump a maximized amount of blood both to the lungs and to the rest of the body .
In a PVC , the ventricles contract first and before the atria have optimally filled the ventricles with blood ,  जिससे अर्थात् कि परिसंचरण  is inefficient .
However , single beat PVC arrhythmias do not usually  पोज़ a खतरे और can be asymptomatic in  healthy individuals .
William Gary Busey ( born June 29 , 1944 ) , better known  as गेरी busey , is an अमरीकी फिल्मी  and stage actor , and artist .
He has  appeared in a किस्में of films , सहित lethal हथियार , पाइंट  Break , and Under Siege , as well as guest appearances on Gunsmoke , Walker , Texas Ranger , Law & Order , and Entourage .
He was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor in 1978 for his role in  the दोस्त  Holly Story .
The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement ( ACTA ) ,  is a बहुराष्ट्रीय सन्धि  for the purpose of establishing international standards for intellectual property rights enforcement .
The agreement aims to establish an international legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods , generic  दवाइयाँ और कापीराइट infringement on the अंतरजाल , और होता बनाएँ a नई शासी देह  outside existing forums , such as the World Trade Organization , the World Intellectual Property Organization , or the United Nations .
The agreement was signed in October 2011 by Australia ,  कनाडा , जापानी , मोरक्को , नई जीलैंड , सिंगापुर , दक्षिण  Korea , and the United States .
In 2012 ,  मैक्सिको , the  European Union and 22 countries which are member states of the European Union signed as well .
One signatory ( Japan ) has ratified ( formally approved ) the agreement , which would come into force in countries that ratified  it बाद अनुसमर्थन by छह देशों  .
Supporters have described the agreement as a response to `` the increase in global trade of  नकली goods और pirated कापीराइट सुरक्षित  works '' .
Trades Unions representing workers in the music , film and TV industries and large intellectual property-based  संगठन ऐसे as the गति चित्र संघ  of America and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America were active in the treaty 's development .
प्रतिद्वंद्वियों कह the सम्मेलन  adversely affects fundamental rights including freedom of expression and privacy .
ACTA has also been  criticised by डॉक्टर बगैर सीमायें  for endangering access to medicines in developing countries .
The secret nature of negotiations has excluded civil society groups , developing countries and  the सामान्य पब्लिक इससे the अनुबंध 's negotiation प्रक्रम और it रै महरूम वर्णित as नीति laundering  by critics including the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Entertainment Consumers Association .
The signature of the EU and many of its member states resulted in the resignation in protest of the  यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट 's नियुक्त मुख्य अन्वेषक , rapporteur कादर  Arif , as well as widespread protests across Europe .
In 2012 the newly-appointed  rapporteur , अंग्रेजों mep दाउद मार्टिन , अनुशंसित  against the treaty , stating : `` The intended benefits of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to civil liberties '' .
On 4 July 2012 ,  the यूरोपीय पार्लियामेंट  rejected the agreement in plenary session , with 478 voting against the treaty , 39 in favour and 165 MEPs abstaining .
faw semi-trailer  truck in China
Tractor with side dump trailer  semi-trailer
A tractor with an  auto-transport  semi-trailer .
Semi-trailer truck with  स्लीपर पीछे  the cab .
A semi-trailer truck  is an articulated  vehicle that consists of a towing engine , known as a tractor in the United States and truck in many other places , attached to one or more semi-trailers to carry freight .
It is also known as a transport  in कनाडा , प्रधान प्रस्तावक in ऑस्ट्रेलिया , सेमी , tractor-trailer , ट्रक  and trailer , transfer truck , 18-wheeler , mack truck , big rig in the United States , or artic , short for articulated lorry , in Britain and Ireland .
A semi-trailer does not trail  completely पीछे the towing गाडी , लकिन  is attached at a point that is just forward of the rear-most axle of the towing unit .
इस is किया so कि a भिन्न of the वज़न of  the trailer is carried by the prime mover .
This arrangement means that both tractor  और semi-trailer होगा have  a distinctly different design than a rigid truck and trailer .
The  पिट्सबर्ग स्टीलर्स  are a professional football team based in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
The team currently belongs to the North Division of the American  फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc  ) in the National Football League ( NFL ) .
संस्थापित in , the स्टीलर्स हैं the  oldest franchise in the AFC .
Pittsburgh has won more Super Bowl titles ( six ) , won more AFC Championship Games ( eight ) and played in ( fifteen ) and hosted more ( eleven ) conference championship games  than कोई अन्य afc  or NFC team .
The Steelers share the record for most Super Bowl appearances  साथ the डलास cowboys ( आठ  ) .
The Steelers won their most  हाल चैंपियनशिप  , Super Bowl XLIII , on February 1 , 2009 .
The Steelers were founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates on July 8 , 1933 , by Art Rooney , taking its original name from the  बेसबॉल टोली of the वही नाम , as थी आम अभ्यास लिये एनएफएल  teams to do at the time .
The ownership  of the स्टीलर्स रै remained  within the Rooney family since its founding .
The current owner is  Art  's son , Dan Rooney , who has given much control of the franchise to his son Art Rooney II .
Long one of the NFL 's  फ्लैगशिप टीमों , the स्टीलर्स  enjoy a large , widespread fanbase nicknamed Steeler Nation .
the स्टीलर्स फिलहाल  play their home games at Heinz Field on Pittsburgh 's North Side in the North Shore neighborhood , which also hosts the University of Pittsburgh Panthers .
Built in 2001 , the stadium replaced Three Rivers Stadium which  hosted  the Steelers for 31 seasons .
Prior to Three Rivers , the Steelers had played their games in Pitt Stadium and Forbes  फ़ील्ड  .
Three different kinds of  गेहूं और rye आटा
Flour is a powder which is  बना by पीस खाद्यान्न दाने  , or other seeds or roots ( like Cassava ) .
It  is the प्रमुख संघटक of ब्रैड , जिससे  is a staple food for many cultures , making the availability of adequate supplies of flour a major economic and political issue at various times throughout history .
गेहूं आटा is एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण भोजन in यूरोपीय , उत्तर अमरीकी  , Middle Eastern , Indian and North African cultures , and is the defining ingredient in most of their styles of breads and pastries .
While wheat is the most common base for flour ,  मकई आटा रै महरूम महत्वपूर्ण in mesoamerican भोजन चूंकि प्राचीन टाइम्स , और  remains a staple throughout the Americas .
Rye flour is an important constituent of bread in much of central Europe ,  और राइस can भी be प्रयुक्त in आटा , हालांकि  this is relatively uncommon .
Heart rate is the number of heartbeats per  ईकाई of समय , typically  expressed as beats per minute ( bpm ) .
Heart rate can vary as the body 's need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide changes , such as  दौरान शारीरिक कसरत , नींद , बीमारी  , or as a result of ingesting drugs :
Central nervous system  stimulants ऐसे as amphetamines बढ़ाएँ  heart rate .
Central nervous system depressants or  sedatives decreases the दिल रेट ( अलावा इससे कुछ विशेषकर  strange ones with equally strange effects , such as ketamine which can cause - amongst many other things - stimulant-like effects such as tachycardia ) .
वहीँ हैं  many ways in which the heart rate speeds up or slows down .
Most involve stimulant-like endorphins and hormones being released in the brain , many of which are those that are 'forced'/'enticed '  आउट by the ingestion और प्रसंस्करण  of drugs .
Due to individuals having a constant blood volume , one of the physiological ways to  उद्धार अधिक ऑक्सीजन to an अंग is to  increase heart rate to permit blood to pass by the organ more often .
Normal resting heart rates  दायरा इससे 60-100 bpm .
Bradycardia is  पारिभाषित as a resting दिल रेट  below 60 bpm .
However ,  दिल दरों इससे 50 to 60 bpm हैं  common among healthy people and do not necessarily require special attention .
Tachycardia is defined as a resting heart rate above 100 bpm , though  persistent बाकी दरों between 80-100 bpm , मुख्यतः if वे हैं उपस्थित दौरान  sleep , may be signs of hyperthyroidism or anemia ( see below ) .
Catherine II 's carved , painted and gilded Coronation  कोच ( hermitage  Museum )
A carriage is a wheeled vehicle for people , usually horse-drawn ; litters ( palanquins ) and sedan chairs are  excluded , चूंकि वे हैं wheelless  vehicles .
The  carriage is विशेषकर designed  for private passenger use and for comfort or elegance , though some are also used to transport goods .
It may be light ,  smart और तेज़  or heavy , large and comfortable .
Carriages  सामान्यतः have  suspension using leaf springs , elliptical springs ( in the 19th century ) or leather strapping .
A public passenger vehicle would not usually be called a carriage – terms  लिये ऐसे शामिल stagecoach  , charabanc and omnibus .
Working vehicles such as the ( four-wheeled ) wagon and (  two-wheeled ) कार्ट share महत्वपूर्ण भाग of the इतिहास of  the carriage , as is the fast ( two-wheeled ) chariot .
The 2004  भारतीय समंदर भूकंप थी an undersea megathrust  earthquake that occurred at 00:58:53 UTC on Sunday , 26 December 2004 , with an epicentre off the west coast of Sumatra , Indonesia .
the भूकंप itself  is known by the scientific community as the Sumatra–Andaman earthquake .
The resulting tsunami was given various names , including the 2004  भारतीय समंदर सुनामी , दक्षिण  Asian tsunami , Indonesian tsunami , and the Boxing Day tsunami .
The earthquake was caused by subduction and triggered a series of devastating tsunamis along the coasts of most landmasses bordering the Indian Ocean , killing over 230,000 people in fourteen countries ,  और inundating तटीय समुदायों साथ  waves up to high .
It was one of the deadliest  प्राकृतिक आपदाओं  in recorded history .
Indonesia was the hardest-hit country , followed by Sri Lanka ,  इण्डिया , और थाईलैंड  .
With a magnitude of Mw  9.1–9.3 , it is the तीसरा largest भूकंप  ever recorded on a seismograph .
The earthquake had the longest  अवधि of faulting कभी observed  , between 8.3 and 10 minutes .
It caused the  संपूर्ण ग्रह to हिलना as much as  and triggered other earthquakes as far away as Alaska .
Its epicentre was  between simeulue  and mainland Indonesia .
The plight of  the प्रभावित लोगों  and countries prompted a worldwide humanitarian response .
In  सब , the विश्वव्यापी जातियाँ दान  more than $ 14 billion ( 2004 US $ ) in humanitarian aid .
Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power  स्टेशन  in Iceland .
Geothermal energy is  थर्मल उर्जा उत्पन्न और भंडारित in  the Earth .
Thermal energy is the energy that  determines the तापमान  of matter .
The Geothermal energy of the Earth 's crust originates from the original formation of the  ग्रह ( 20 % ) और इससे रेडियोसक्रिय  decay of minerals ( 80 % ) .
The geothermal gradient , which is the difference in  तापमान between the कोर of the ग्रह और इसके सतह , ड्राइव a निरन्तर  conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface .
The adjective  geothermal originates इससे  the Greek roots γη ( ge ) , meaning earth , and θερμος ( thermos ) , meaning hot .
At the core of the Earth , thermal energy is created by radioactive decay and  temperatures may पहुँचें over  5000 °C ( 9,000 °F ) .
Heat conducts from the core to  surrounding  cooler rock .
The high temperature and pressure cause some rock to melt , creating magma  संवहन upward चूंकि it is  lighter than the solid rock .
The magma heats rock and water  in the क्रस्ट , sometimes  up to 370 °C ( 700 °F ) .
From hot springs , geothermal energy has been used for bathing since  paleolithic टाइम्स और लिये स्पेस हीटिंग  since ancient Roman times , but it is now better known for electricity generation .
Worldwide , about  10,715  megawatts ( MW ) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries .
An additional 28 gigawatts of direct  geothermal हीटिंग क्षमता is संस्थापित लिये ज़िला हीटिंग , स्पेस हीटिंग  , spas , industrial processes , desalination and agricultural applications .
Geothermal power is cost effective , reliable , sustainable , and  environmentally दोस्ताना  , but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries .
Recent  technological अग्रिम have dramatically विस्तारित  the range and size of viable resources , especially for applications such as home heating , opening a potential for widespread exploitation .
Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within  the धरती , लकिन ये emissions  are much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels .
As a result , geothermal power has the potential to help  mitigate वैश्विक वार्मिंग if widely  deployed in place of fossil fuels .
The Earth 's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to  सप्लाई मानवता 's उर्जा needs , लकिन तभी a बहुत छोटी भिन्न  may be profitably exploited .
Drilling and exploration for deep  संसाधन is  very expensive .
Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions about technology , energy prices ,  subsidies , और ब्याज  rates .
Pilot programs like EWEB 's customer opt in Green Power Program show that customers  होता be willing to अदा a छोटी अधिक लिये a बेदर्दी उर्जा सोर्स जैसे geothermal  .
लकिन as a परिणाम of सरकारी assisted शोध और उद्योग  experience , the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25 % over the past two decades .
In 2001 , geothermal  उर्जा लागत between दो और  ten cents per kwh .
The term cubic foot is an Imperial and  us प्रथागत ( non- मीट्रिक )  unit of volume , used in the United States and the United Kingdom .
It is defined as the volume  of a घन साथ पहलू of एक  foot ( 0.3048 m ) in length .
To calculate cubic  फीट गुणा  length X width X height .
Hồ Chí Minh ( Northern Vietnamese pronunciation : ,  दक्षिणी वियतनामी उच्चारण : ) ; 19 may 1890 –  2 September 1969 ) , born Nguyễn Sinh Cung and also known as Nguyễn Tất Thành and Nguyễn Ái Quốc , was a Vietnamese communist revolutionary leader who was prime minister ( 1945–1955 ) and president ( 1945–1969 ) of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ) .
He was a key  फिगर in the न्यास of the लोकतांत्रिक गणतंत्र  of Vietnam in 1945 , as well as the People’s Army of Vietnam ( PAVN ) and the Việt Cộng ( NLF or VC ) during the Vietnam War .
He led the Việt Minh independence movement from 1941 onward , establishing the communist -ruled Democratic Republic of Vietnam in 1945 and defeating  the फ्रेंच संघ in 1954 at  the battle of Điện Biên Phủ .
He officially stepped down from power in 1955 due to  स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं , लकिन remained a अत्यधिक दृश्य figurehead  and inspiration for those Vietnamese fighting for his cause—a united , communist Vietnam—until his death .
After the war , Saigon , capital of the Republic of  वियतनाम , थी renamed  Hồ Chí Minh City .
All Roads Lead Home  is a विशेषता फिल्मी released  on September 26 , 2008 .
Directed by Dennis Fallon , it stars Peter Boyle , Patton Oswalt , Jason London , Vivien Cardone ,  वैनेसा शाखा , पीटर कायोटी , स्टीफन मिल्टन , और allan kayser  .
The movie  थी फिल्माया in  and around Kansas City , Missouri .
The movie made its World Premiere  जनवरी 27 at the सांता बारबरा अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Film Festival .
The film has also recently been in several  फिल्मी त्यौहार ,  and has received bad reviews .
Peter Boyle  died पहले  the movie 's release .
It  थी the पिछला  movie he appeared in .
Sales taxes in the United States are taxes placed on the sale or  पट्टे of goods और सेवाएं  in the United States .
While no national general sales tax exists , the federal  सरकारी levies अनेक नेशनल चयनात्मक बिक्री कर on the  sale or lease of particular goods and services .
Furthermore , forty-five states , the District of Columbia , and Guam impose general sales  कर कि लागू to the बिक्री or पट्टे of सबसे goods और कुछ सेवाएं , और  states also may levy selective sales taxes on the sale or lease of particular goods or services .
States may also delegate to local governments the authority to impose  अतिरिक्त सामान्य or चयनात्मक बिक्री  taxes .
Sales tax is calculated by multiplying the  खरीदें  price by the applicable tax rate .
Tax rates vary  widely by क्षेत्राधिकार  and range from less than 1 % to over 10 % .
बिक्री कर  is collected by the seller at the time of sale .
Use  कर is स्वः assessed  by a buyer who has not paid sales tax on a taxable purchase .
Unlike the value  added कर , a बिक्री कर  is imposed only once , at the retail level .
However , in cases where items are sold at retail more than once , such as used cars , the sales  कर can be चार्ज on the वही  item indefinitely .
The definition of retail sales and what goods  और सेवाएं हैं  taxable vary among the states .
Nearly all jurisdictions provide numerous categories of goods  और सेवाएं  that are exempt from sales tax , or taxed at reduced rates .
The purchase of goods for further manufacture or for resale  is uniformly exempt इससे बिक्री कर  .
Most jurisdictions exempt food sold in grocery stores ,  नुस्खा medications , और अनेक  agricultural supplies .
Sales taxes , including those  imposed by लोकल सरकारें , हैं generally  administered at the state level .
States imposing sales tax require retail sellers to  collect कर इससे ग्राहक ,  file returns , and remit the tax to the state .
Procedural  नियम vary  widely .
Sellers generally must collect tax from in-state purchasers unless the purchaser provides  an exemption प्रमाणपत्र  .
Most states allow or require  इलेक्ट्रॉनिक remittance  .
A central processing unit ( CPU ) , also referred to as a central processor unit , is the hardware within a computer that carries out the  निर्देश of a कंप्यूटर  program by performing the basic arithmetical , logical , and input/output operations of the system .
The term has been in use in the computer industry at least  चूंकि the जल्दी 1960s  .
The form , design , and implementation of CPUs have changed over the course of their  इतिहास , लकिन उनके आधारभूत आपरेशन remains much the  same .
A computer can have more than one CPU ; this is called  multiprocessing  .
Some integrated circuits ( ICs ) can contain multiple  cpu on a सिंगल चिप ; those ics हैं पुकारा  multi-core processors .
Two typical components of a CPU are the  गणित लॉजिक ईकाई ( alu ) , जिससे performs  arithmetic and logical operations , and the control unit ( CU ) , which extracts instructions from memory and decodes and executes them , calling on the ALU when necessary .
Not all computational  प्रणालियों rely on a सेंट्रल  processing unit .
An array processor or vector processor has multiple parallel  कम्प्यूटिंग  elements , with no one unit considered the `` center '' .
In the distributed computing model , problems are solved  by a वितरित interconnected नियत  of processors .
RFID  चिप अगला to  a grain of rice .
This chip contains a radio-frequency electromagnetic field coil that modulates an  बाह्य चुम्बकीय फ़ील्ड to ट्रांसफ़र  a coded identification number when queried by a reader device .
This small type is incorporated in consumer products , and implanted in pets , for  पहचान उद्देश्य  .
Radio-frequency  पहचान ( rfid ) is the बेतार non-contact  use of radio-frequency electromagnetic fields to transfer data , for the purposes of automatically identifying and tracking tags attached to objects .
The tags  contain electronically  stored information .
Some  टैग हैं संचालित और  read at short ranges ( a few meters ) via magnetic fields ( electromagnetic induction ) .
Others use a local power source such as a battery , or else have no battery but collect energy from  the interrogating em फ़ील्ड , और तब अधिनियम as a passive transponder  to emit microwaves or UHF radio waves ( i.e. , electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies ) .
बैटरी संचालित  tags may operate at hundreds of meters .
Unlike a bar code , the tag  करता नहीं necessarily  need to be within line of sight of the reader , and may be embedded in the tracked object .
RFID tags are  प्रयुक्त in अनेक उद्योग  .
An RFID tag attached to an automobile during production can be used to track its  प्रगति through the सभा  line .
Pharmaceuticals  can be tracked  through warehouses .
Livestock  और पालतु may have टैग injected , allowing  positive identification of the animal .
Since RFID tags can be attached to clothing , possessions , or even implanted  भीतर लोगों , the सम्भावना  of reading personally-linked information without consent has raised privacy concerns .
Overtime is  the राशि of समय  someone works beyond normal working hours .
सामान्य घंटों may  be determined in several ways:
by custom (  कया  is considered healthy or reasonable by society ) ,
by practices  of a दिए  trade or profession,
by  legislation,
by agreement between  नियोक्ता और मजदूर  or their representatives .
Most nations have overtime labor laws designed to  dissuade or prevent  employers from forcing their employees to work excessively long hours .
These laws may  लो into खाता अन्य  considerations than the humanitarian , such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive , or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy .
एक आम दृष्टिकोण to regulating ओवरटाइम  is to require employers to pay workers at a higher hourly rate for overtime work .
Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged to do so by law ,  विशेषकर  if they believe that they face a backward bending supply curve of labour .
ओवरटाइम अदा दरों can कारण  workers to work longer hours than they would at a flat hourly rate .
Overtime laws ,  attitudes toward ओवरटाइम  and hours of work vary greatly from country to country and between different economic sectors .
Visualization of  कड़ी between पृष्ठों on  a wiki using a force-directed layout .
Force-directed graph drawing algorithms are  a क्लास of algorithms लिये आरेखण रेखाचित्र  in an aesthetically pleasing way .
Their purpose is to position the nodes of a graph in two-dimensional or three-dimensional space so that all the edges are of more or less equal length and there are as few crossing edges as  संभावित , by assigning शक्तियां among the नियत of किनारे  and the set of nodes , based on their relative positions , and then using these forces either to simulate the motion of the edges and nodes or to minimize their energy .
While graph drawing can be a difficult problem , force-directed algorithms ,  होने शारीरिक  simulations , usually require no special knowledge about graph theory such as planarity .
Purchasing power ( sometimes retroactively called adjusted for inflation ) is the amount of goods  or सेवाएं कि can  be purchased with a unit of currency .
For example , if you had taken one dollar to a store in the 1950s , you would have been able to buy a greater number of items than you would today , indicating that  तुम होता have था a वृहद खरीदना शक्ति in  the 1950s .
Currency can be either a  कमोडिटी धन , जैसे सुनहरा or चांदी , or  fiat currency , or free-floating market-valued currency like US dollars .
As Adam Smith noted , having money gives one the ability to `` command '' others ' labor , so purchasing power to  कुछ extent is शक्ति over अन्य लोगों ,  to the extent that they are willing to trade their labor or goods for money or currency .
If one 's monetary income stays the same ,  लकिन the दाम स्तर increases , the  purchasing power of that income falls .
Inflation  करता नहीं सदा imply गिरना खरीदना शक्ति of एक  's money income since it may rise faster than the price level .
A higher  रियल आय  means a higher purchasing power since real income refers to the income adjusted for inflation .
For a price index , its value in the base year is  प्रायः सामान्यीकृत to a मान of 100  .
The purchasing power of a unit of currency , say a  डालर , in a  given year , expressed in dollars of the base year , is 100/P , where P is the price index in that year .
So , by definition the purchasing power of a dollar  decreases as the  price level rises .
The purchasing power in today 's money of an amount C of money , t years into the  भविष्य , can be computed साथ the  formula for the present value :
where in this case i is an assumed future annual  महंगाई  rate .
Education in South Korea is viewed as being crucial for success and competition is  नतीजतन बहुत heated  and fierce .
A central administration  oversees the प्रक्रम लिये the शिक्षा of  children from kindergarten to the third and final year of high school .
Mathematics , science , Korean , English , and social studies  हैं generally माना to be the सबसे  important subjects .
Normally  शारीरिक शिक्षा is नहीं माना  important as it is not recognised , by the generally academic elitist South Korean populace , as education and therefore many schools lack high-quality gymnasiums and varsity athletics .
South Korea was the  पहला देश in the संसार to provide high-speed  internet access to all primary , junior , and high schools .
Although South Korean students often  रैंक अत्यधिक on अंतरराष्ट्रीय तुलनात्मक आकलन  when compared to students of most Western education systems , the South Korean education system is criticised for emphasising too much upon passive learning and memorisation .
The South Korean  शिक्षा प्रणाली is बल्कि  notably strict and overly structured as compared to its counterparts in most Western societies .
Also , the prevalence of non-school for-profit private institutes such as academies or cram-schools ( Hagwon [ 학원 ] ) , which too emphasise on  passive memorisation , as opposed to conceptual समझना  , in students are criticised as a major social problem .
The My Lai Massacre ( , ; , , or ) was the  वियतनाम युद्ध द्रव्यमान हत्या of between  347 and 504 unarmed civilians in South Vietnam on March 16 , 1968 , by United States Army soldiers of `` Charlie '' Company of 1st Battalion , 20th Infantry Regiment , 11th Brigade of the Americal Division .
Victims included  महिलाओं , मेन  , children , and infants .
Some of the women were gang-raped and their bodies were later found to be mutilated and many women were  allegedly raped prior  to the killings .
While  26 u.S. सैनिको यहूद initially चार्ज साथ दण्ड  offenses for their actions at Mỹ Lai , only Second Lieutenant William Calley , a platoon leader in Charlie Company , was convicted .
Found guilty of killing 22 villagers , he was originally given a life sentence ,  लकिन तभी परोसा तीन और a हाफ  years under house arrest .
The massacre took  प्लेस  in the hamlets of My Lai and My Khe of Son My village .
The event is also known as the Son My Massacre , especially in the  वियतनामी राज्य मीडिया  .
The U.S. military codeword for the `` Viet Cong  stronghold '' थी  `` Pinkville '' .
The incident prompted  वैश्विक आक्रोश  when it became public knowledge in 1969 .
The massacre  भी increased घरेलू  opposition to the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War .
Three U.S. servicemen who had tried to  halt the नरसंहार और protect the wounded  were initially denounced by several U.S . Congressmen as traitors .
They received hate mail and death threats and found mutilated  पशु on उनके doorsteps  .
The  तीन यहूद बाद  widely praised and decorated by the Army for their heroic actions .
The hijackers  in the सितंबर  11 attacks were 19 men affiliated with al-Qaeda , and 15 of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia .
Others were from Egypt , Lebanon  , और  the UAE .
The hijackers were organized into four  टीमों , प्रत्येक  led by a pilot-trained hijacker with four `` muscle hijackers '' who were trained to help subdue the pilots , passengers , and crew .
The first hijackers to arrive in the United States were Khalid  al-mihdhar और nawaf al-hazmi  , who settled in the San Diego area in January 2000 .
They were followed  by तीन hijacker-pilots , मोहम्मद atta , marwan  al-Shehhi , and Ziad Jarrah early in the summer of 2000 to undertake flight training in south Florida .
the चौथी hijacker-pilot  , Hani Hanjour , arrived in San Diego in December 2000 .
The rest of  the `` मांसपेशी hijackers '' arrived in  the spring and early summer of 2001 , just months before the September 11 attacks .
Abū al-Qāsim  muḥammad इब्न ʿabd allāh इब्न ʿabd al-muṭṭalib  ibn Hāshim ( ) ( circa| 570 – circa| 8 June 632 ) , also transliterated as Muhammad ( ) , was a religious , political , and military leader from Mecca who unified Arabia into a single religious polity under Islam .
he is believed by मुसलमान  and Bahá'ís to be a messenger and prophet of God .
Muhammad is almost universally  माना by मुसलमान as the  last prophet sent by God for mankind .
Non-Muslims regard Muhammad as the founder of  islam .
Muslims consider him to be the restorer  of an अनछुए असली monotheistic  faith of Adam , Noah , Abraham , Moses , Jesus , and other prophets .
Born in about 570 CE in the  arabian नगर of मक्का , he थी  orphaned at an early age and brought up under the care of his uncle Abu Talib .
He later worked mostly as a merchant  , as खूब  as a shepherd , and was first married by age 25 .
Being in the habit of periodically retreating to a cave in the surrounding mountains for  अनेक नाइट्स of seclusion और दुआ , he बाद reported कि  it was there , at age 40 , that he received his first revelation from God .
Three years after this event Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly , proclaiming that `` God is One ``  , कि पूरा `` आत्मसमर्पण  '' to Him ( lit .
islām ) is the only way ( dīn ) acceptable to God , and that he himself was a prophet and messenger of God  , in the वही रग as अन्य  Islamic prophets .
Muhammad gained few followers early on , and was met with  दुश्मनी इससे कुछ  Meccan tribes ; he and his followers were treated harshly .
To escape persecution ,  मुहम्मद भेजा कुछ of  his followers to Abyssinia before he and his followers in Mecca migrated to Medina ( then known as Yathrib ) in the year 622 .
This event , the Hijra , marks the beginning of  the इस्लामी पंचांग  , which is also known as the Hijri Calendar .
In Medina , Muhammad united  the जनजातियों अंतर्गत  the Constitution of Medina .
After eight years of fighting  साथ the meccan जनजातियों , उसके अनुसरणकर्ता , जो by  then had grown to 10,000 , took control of Mecca in the largely peaceful Conquest of Mecca .
He  नष्ट the pagan मूर्तियों in the नगर और तब  sent his followers out to destroy all of the remaining pagan temples in Eastern Arabia .
in 632 , a few महीने बाद returning  to Medina from The Farewell Pilgrimage , Muhammad fell ill and died .
By  the समय  of his death , most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam , and he had united Arabia into a single Muslim religious polity .
The revelations (  or ayah , lit  .
`` Signs [ of God ] '' ) — which Muhammad reported receiving until his  मौत – रूप the आयतें of the कुरान  , regarded by Muslims as the `` Word of God '' and around which the religion is based .
Besides the  कुरान , मुहम्मद 's जीवन (  sira ) and traditions ( sunnah ) are also upheld by Muslims as the sources of sharia law .
They  discuss मुहम्मद और अन्य नबियों of  Islam with reverence , adding the phrase peace be upon him whenever their names are mentioned .
While conceptions of Muhammad in medieval Christendom and premodern times  यहूद largely ऋणात्मक , appraisals  in modern history have been far less so .
This is a list of tables of the verified oldest people  in the संसार in ordinal रैंक , ऐसे as oldest  person or oldest man .
In these tables , a supercentenarian is considered 'verified ' if his or her claim has been validated by an international body that specifically deals in  आयु शोध , ऐसे as the जराविद्या शोध  Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan  is कि of  Jeanne Calment of France ( 1875–1997 ) , who died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She met Vincent  वैन gogh जब  she was 12 or 13 .
This led to news  मीडिया ध्यान  in 1985 , after Calment turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age , beyond any reasonable question , in the records of  उसके देशी नगर  , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been  उत्पादित than लिये कोई अन्य supercentenarian  ; her case serves as an archetype in the methodology for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people .
the longest undisputed जीवनकाल लिये पुरूष supercentenarians is कि of jiroemon किमुरा , जो फिलहाल जीवनदान in जापानी और is आयु as of  .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States ,  on 17 दिसम्बर  2012 , Kimura , born 19 April 1897 , is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented .
He has also been the oldest living man  चूंकि the मौत of 114-year  old Walter Breuning on 14 April 2011 .
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January  2013 , the oldest जीना स्त्री रै महरूम -year-old misao okawa , भी  from Japan , born on 5 March 1898 .
This is a timeline of  the african-american  Civil Rights Movement .
The Civil Rights  गति थी a  freedom struggle by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality .
The goals of the movement were  स्वतंत्रता इससे पक्षपात , बराबर अवसर in नियुक्ति  , education and housing , the right to vote and equal access to public facilities .
Heavy  मेटल ( प्रायः referred to as मेटल  ) is a genre of rock music that developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s , largely in the United Kingdom and in the United States .
With roots in blues rock and psychedelic rock , the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick , massive sound  , characterized by अत्यधिक प्रवर्धित distortion  , extended guitar solos , emphatic beats , and overall loudness .
Heavy metal lyrics and performance styles are  generally संबद्ध  with masculinity and machismo .
The first heavy metal bands such as Led Zeppelin , Deep Purple and Black Sabbath attracted large audiences , though they were often derided by  आलोचकों , a औकात आम throughout the इतिहास of  the genre .
In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre 's evolution by  discarding much of इसके ब्लूज़ influence ; motörhead introduced a  punk rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed .
Bands in the New Wave of British Heavy  मेटल ऐसे as आयरन  Maiden followed in a similar vein .
Before the end of the  दशक , भारी मेटल प्रशंसक became  known as `` metalheads `` or `` headbangers `` .
During  the 1980s , glam मेटल became  a commercial force with groups like Mötley Crüe and Poison .
Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme , aggressive styles : thrash metal broke into the mainstream with bands such as Metallica , Megadeth , Slayer , and Anthrax , while other styles of the most extreme subgenres of metal like  मौत मेटल और ब्लैक मेटल  remain subcultural phenomena .
Since the  mid-1990s , लोकप्रिय शैलियाँ ऐसे as nu मेटल , जिससे प्रायः incorporates तत्व of  grunge and hip hop ; and metalcore , which blends extreme metal with hardcore punk , have further expanded the definition of the genre .
The  far-right ( भी ज्ञात as the चरम  right ) refers to the highest degree of rightism in right-wing politics .
Far right politics involves support of strong or complete social hierarchy in society , and supports supremacy of certain individuals or  समूह  deemed to be innately superior or preferable who are to be more valued than those deemed to be innately inferior or undesirable .
The far right 's  वकालत of  supremacism is based on what its adherents perceive as innate characteristics of people that can not be changed .
This stands as a point of difference with the centre-right 's attribution of behaviours , such as laziness or  decadence , as the प्राथमिक स्त्रोत of  social inequalities .
The centre right—unlike the  दूर right—claims कि लोगों  can end their behavioural inferiority through changing their habits and choices .
The original far right  , जिससे उभरा in फ़्रांस  after the French Revolution , refused to accept the French Republic and supported a counter-revolution to restore the French monarchy and aristocracy .
The far right is commonly associated with persons or groups  जो थाम चरम राष्ट्रवादी , xenophobic  , racist , religious fundamentalist or reactionary views .
The most extreme-right movements have pursued oppression and genocide against groups  of लोगों on the आधार of उनके कथित हीनता .
Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury ( 5 April 1588 – 4 December 1679 ) , in some older texts Thomas Hobbs  of malmsbury , थी an अंग्रेज़ी पारस , बेहतरीन ज्ञात आज लिये उसके कार्य on राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र  .
His 1651 book  leviathan स्थापित the न्यास  for most of Western political philosophy from the perspective of social contract theory .
Hobbes was a champion of absolutism for the sovereign , but he also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought : the right of the individual ; the natural equality of all men ; the artificial character of the political order ( which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state ) ; the view that all  legitimate राजनैतिक शक्ति जरूर be `` प्रतिनिधि '' और आधारित on the सहमति of the लोगों ; और a उदार  interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid .
He was one of the founders of modern  राजनैतिक  philosophy .
His understanding of humans as being matter and motion , obeying the same physical laws as other matter and motion , remains influential ; and his account of human nature as self-interested cooperation , and of political communities as being based upon a `` social  अनुबंध `` remains एक of the प्रमुख विषय of राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र  .
In addition  to राजनैतिक दर्शनशास्त्र , hobbes  also contributed to a diverse array of other fields , including history , geometry , the physics of gases , theology , ethics , and general philosophy .
Emotional intelligence ( EI ) is the ability to  पहचानो , assess , और कंट्रोल the भाव  of oneself , of others , and of groups .
It can be divided into ability EI and   trait EI .
Ability EI is usually measured using maximum performance tests and has stronger relationships with traditional intelligence , whereas trait EI is usually measured using  self-report questionnaires और रै stronger  relationships with personality .
Criticisms have centered on whether EI is a real intelligence and whether it has incremental  वैध over  IQ and the Big Five personality traits .
Heredity is  the गुजर of traits  to offspring from its parents or ancestor .
This is the process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of its  जनक कोशिका or सजीव  .
through आनुवंशिकता , विसंगतियाँ  exhibited by individuals can accumulate and cause some species to evolve .
The study of heredity in biology is called genetics , which  शामिल the फ़ील्ड of epigenetics  .
For United States individual income tax , adjusted gross  आय ( agi ) is कुल सकल आय  minus specific reductions .
Taxable income is adjusted gross  आय ऋण  allowances for personal exemptions and itemized deductions .
For  सबसे व्यक्तिगत कर  purposes , AGI is more relevant than gross income .
Gross income is  बिक्री दाम of goods  or property , minus cost of the property sold , plus other income .
It  शामिल मजदूरी , ब्याज , dividends , कारोबार  income , rental income , and all other types of income .
Adjusted gross income is gross income less deductions from a  कारोबार or rental कार्यकलाप और 21 अन्य  specific items .
Several deductions ( e.g .  चिकित्सा खर्च और विविध itemized  deductions ) are limited based on a percentage of AGI .
Certain phase outs , including those  of निम्नतर  tax rates and itemized deductions , are based on levels of AGI .
Many  राज्य आधार राज्य आय कर on agi  with certain deductions .
`` Lazy  नजर '' is the तीसरा सिंगल  from Silversun Pickups ' debut album Carnavas .
The band performed the song on the Late Show with David Letterman , The Tonight Show with Jay  लीनो , बाद साथ jools हॉलैंड , और पिछला कॉल  with Carson Daly .
The song is a playable track on Rock Band 2 and  गिटार नायिका :  World Tour .
An alternate version of the  सोंग , साथ a लंबाई of 7:27 ,  was played on XMU before the shorter version was played on FM and other XM channels .
This  संस्करण थी प्रदर्शित  on their demo CD ( which featured early versions of four tracks ) .
A telephone prefix is the first set of digits of a telephone number ; in the  उत्तर अमरीकी क्रमांकन योजना  countries ( country code 1 ) , it is the first three digits of a seven-digit phone number .
In other countries both the prefix and the number may have  अलग lengths  .
It  shows जिससे एक्सचेंज  the remaining numbers refer to .
A full telephone number is usually made up of country code ( required for international calls only ) ,  क्षेत्रफल कोड ( जरूरी  for calls between telephone areas ) , prefix , and subscriber number .
Some places restrict certain prefixes to fax numbers or cell phones only ;  in अन्य स्थान ऐसे समर्पित  prefixes are not used .
As telephone technology advanced , the precise significance of the prefix became blurred in many places ; 485 in London , UK , was once the GULliver exchange , but now 44207485xxxx is just considered one of many  क्रमांक ब्लॉक परोसा by the clken kentish कस्बा एक्सचेंज  ; 4420770703xx is another .
Metformin ( BP  , सुनाया , ; originally  sold as Glucophage ) is an oral antidiabetic drug in the biguanide class .
It is the first-line drug of choice for the treatment of type 2 diabetes , in particular , in overweight and  मोटे लोगों और those साथ सामान्य  kidney function .
Its use in  गर्भकालीन मधुमेह  has been limited by safety concerns .
It is also used in the treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome ,  और रै महरूम investigated लिये अन्य  diseases where insulin resistance may be an important factor .
metformin works by suppressing  glucose production by the liver .
Metformin is the only antidiabetic drug that has been conclusively shown to prevent  the cardiovascular जटिलताओं  of diabetes .
It helps reduce LDL cholesterol and triglyceride  स्तर , और is नहीं संबद्ध  with weight gain .
, metformin is one of only two oral antidiabetics in the World Health Organization Model  सूची of अनिवार्य दवाइयाँ ( the अन्य होने glibenclamide  ) .
When prescribed appropriately , metformin causes few adverse effects ( the most common is  जठरांत्र परेशान ) और  is associated with a low risk of hypoglycemia .
Lactic acidosis ( a buildup of lactate in the blood ) can be a serious concern in overdose and when it is prescribed to people with contraindications  , लकिन वरना , वहीँ is no significant  risk .
First synthesized and found to reduce blood sugar in the 1920s , metformin was forgotten for the next two  दशकों as शोध shifted to  insulin and other antidiabetic drugs .
Interest in  metformin थी rekindled in the लेट 1940s बाद  several reports that it could reduce blood sugar levels in people , and in 1957 , French physician Jean Sterne published the first clinical trial of metformin as a treatment for diabetes .
It was introduced to the United Kingdom  in 1958 ,  Canada in 1972 , and the United States in 1995 .
metformin is अभी believed to be the सबसे widely  prescribed antidiabetic drug in the world ; in the United States alone , more than 48 million prescriptions were filled in 2010 for its generic formulations .
The Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved  into the ग्रेनाइट फेस  of Mount Rushmore near Keystone , South Dakota , in the United States .
Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son , Lincoln Borglum , Mount Rushmore features sculptures of  the heads of चार संयुक्त राज्य राष्ट्रपतियों : जार्ज वॉशिंगटन , थामस  Jefferson , Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln .
The  संपूर्ण मेमोरियल  covers and is above sea level .
the tallest पहाड़  in the region is Harney Peak ( ) .
South Dakota  इतिहासकार दोने रॉबिन्सन is credited साथ conceiving  the idea of carving the likenesses of famous people into the Black Hills region of South Dakota in order to promote tourism in the region .
Robinson 's initial idea was to sculpt the Needles ; however , Gutzon Borglum rejected the Needles site  क्युकी of the ग़रीब विशेषता of the ग्रेनाइट और दमदार विपक्ष इससे पर्यावरणविद  and Native American groups .
They settled on the Mount Rushmore location , which also has the advantage of facing  southeast  for maximum sun exposure .
Robinson wanted it to feature western heroes like Lewis and Clark , Red Cloud and Buffalo Bill Cody but  borglum decided the मूर्तिकला चाहिए have a अधिक नेशनल फ़ोकस , और  chose the four presidents whose likenesses would be carved into the mountain .
After securing federal funding ,  निर्माण on the मेमोरियल began in 1927  , and the presidents ' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939 .
Upon Gutzon Borglum 's death in March 1941 , his  बेटे lincoln borglum  took over construction .
Although the initial concept called for each president to be depicted  इससे सिर to कमर , कमी  of funding forced construction to end in late October 1941 .
The U.S. National Park Service took control of the memorial in 1933 , while it was still under construction , and has managed the memorial  to the  present day .
It attracts nearly three million  लोगों annually  .
charvet पोशाक  shirt from the 1930s , Norsk Folkemuseum , Oslo .
A shirt , dress shirt , button-front , button-front shirt , or button-up shirt is a garment with a collar , a full-length opening at the front from the collar to the hem , and sleeves with   cuffs .
Shirts are predominantly  प्रयुक्त by मेन , चूंकि महिलाओं प्रायः  wear blouses .
The front opening is  fastened using बटन  or studs , and the cuffs close with buttons or cuff links .
Shirts are  सामान्यतः बना इससे woven cloth  , and are often accompanied by a jacket and tie , for example with a suit or formalwear , but shirts are also worn more casually .
In British English , dress shirt means specifically the more formal evening garment worn  साथ black- or white- टाई , भी discussed  below .
Some of these formal shirts have stiff fronts and  detachable छल्लों संलग्न  with collar studs .
The term `` button-down '' ( which refers a type of shirt which has a collar fastened down by buttons ) is sometimes used in error to apply to all shirts ( with or  बगैर buttoned bas छल्लों ) , होने प्रयुक्त as a पर्याय लिये `` button-up '' or ``  button-front '' .
Administrative  पेशेवर दिन ( भी ज्ञात as secretaries दिन or  Admin Day ) is an unofficial secular holiday observed in several countries to recognize the work of secretaries , administrative assistants , receptionists , and other administrative support professionals .
In North  अमेरिका , it is मनाये  on the Wednesday of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ) .
In  फ़्रांस it is मनाये on the तीसरा  Thursday in April ( April 18 in 2013 ) .
in ऑस्ट्रेलिया  it is celebrated on the first Friday in May
धमाकेदार can  be:
अक्खड़  blasting
धमाका  furnace
चट्टान  blasting
Nicolas Poussin  ( ; 15 जून 1594 – 19 नवम्बर 1665 ) थी the अग्रणी चित्रकार of the शास्त्रीय फ्रेंच बरॉक  style , although he spent most of his working life in Rome .
His work is characterized by clarity , logic  , और अनुक्रम , और favors लकीर  over color .
Until the 20th century he remained a major inspiration for such classically oriented artists as Jacques-Louis  दाउद , jean-auguste-dominique ingres  and Paul Cézanne .
He worked in Rome for a circle of leading collectors there and elsewhere , except for a  छोटी काल जब कार्डिनल रिचलू  ordered him back to France to serve as First Painter to the King .
Most of his  works हैं इतिहास paintings of धार्मिक  or mythological subjects that very often have a large landscape element .
Jackie Keith Whitley ( July 1 , 1954Stambler , Irwin , and Grelun Landon ( 2000 ) . - Country Music : The Encyclopedia . - New York : St. Martin 's Press . - p.533 . - ISBN 978-0-312-26487-1.—Carlin , Richard ( 2003 ) . - Country Music : A Biographical Dictionary . - New York : Routledge - p.427 . - ISBN 978-0-415-93802-0.—Larkin , Colin ( 1995 ) . - The Guinness Encyclopedia of Popular Music . - New York : Stockton Press - P.4462 . - ISBN 978-0-85112-662-3.—Stanton , Scott ( 2003 ) . - The Tombstone Tourist : Musicians . - New York : Pocket Books . - p.395 . - ISBN 978-0-7434-6330-0.—Hicks , Jack . - `` Singer Keith Whitley 's Memory Alive Through Songs , Love in Home Town '' . - The Kentucky Post . - September 25 , 1991.— '' Country Music Star Keith Whitley Dead at 33 '' . - Lexington Herald-Leader . - May 10 , 1989.——Hurst , Jack . - `` Whitley 's Last Days '' . - Chicago Tribune . - May 14 , 1989.— '' Alcohol Kills Country Singer Keith Whitley '' . - United Press International . - ( c/o The San Francisco  वृत्तान्त ) . - may 10 , 1989 . — may 9 , 1989 ) , ज्ञात professionally as कैथ whitley , थी an अमरीकी देश म्यूज़िक  singer .
Whitley 's brief career in mainstream country music lasted from 1984 until his  मौत in 1989 , लकिन he continues  to influence an entire generation of singers and songwriters .
He charted 19 singles on the Billboard country charts , including five consecutive Number Ones : `` Do n't Close Your Eyes `` , `` When You Say Nothing at All `` , `` I 'm No Stranger to the Rain `` , `` I Wonder Do You Think of Me  `` and `` It Ai  n't Nothin ' `` ( the last two posthumously ) .
Statute of  ग्रैंड duchy of  Lithuania , written in Polish
A statute is a formal written enactment of a legislative authority that  governs a राज्य  , city , or county .
Typically , statutes command or  prohibit कुछ , or घोषित  policy .
The word is often used to distinguish law made by legislative bodies  इससे मामला विधि , decided  by courts , and regulations issued by government agencies .
Statutes are sometimes  referred to as विधान  or `` black letter law . ''
As  a सोर्स  of law , statutes are considered primary authority ( as opposed to secondary authority ) .
Ideally all statutes must be in harmony with the fundamental law of the land (  संवैधानिक  ) .
इस शब्द is प्रयुक्त  in contradistinction to the common law .
Statutes acquire their force from the time of their  ड्योढ़ी , however  unless otherwise provided .
Statutes are of several kinds ;  namely , पब्लिक  or private .
Declaratory or  remedial .
Temporary or  perpetual  .
A temporary statute is one  जिससे is सीमित in इसके अवधि  at the time of its enactment .
It continues in force until the time of its  limitation रै  expired , unless sooner repealed .
A perpetual statute is one for the continuance of which there is no  सीमित समय , हालांकि it may  not be expressly declared to be so .
If , however , a statute which did not itself contain any limitation is to be governed by another which is temporary only , the former  होगा भी be अस्थाई और निर्भर  upon the existence of the latter .
Before a statute becomes law in some countries , it must be agreed upon by the  उच्चतम कार्यपालिका in the सरकारी  , and finally published as part of a code .
In many countries , statutes are organized in topical arrangements ( or  `` संहिताबद्ध '' ) भीतर  publications called codes , such as the United States Code .
In  अनेक राष्ट्र statutory विधि is  distinguished from and subordinate to constitutional law .
The external iliac arteries are two major arteries which bifurcate off the common iliac arteries anterior to the  sacroiliac संयुक्त of the  pelvis .
They proceed anterior and inferior along the medial border of the  psoas प्रमुख मांसपेशियां  .
They exit the pelvic girdle posterior and  अवर to the वंक्षण स्नायु  about one third laterally from the insertion point of the inguinal ligament on the pubic tubercle at which point they are referred to as the femoral arteries .
The external iliac artery is usually the artery used to attach the renal artery to the  प्राप्तकर्ता of a गुर्दा प्रत्यारोपण  .
Steam is a digital distribution , digital rights management , multiplayer and  संचार मंच  developed by Valve Corporation .
It is used to distribute games and related media online , from small independent developers  to larger तन्त्र घरों ; in अक्तूबर 2012 , वाल्व विस्तारित the सेवा to  include non-gaming software .
Steam provides the user with installation and automatic management of software across multiple computers , community features such as friends lists and  समूह , बादल छायांकन , और in-game  voice and chat functionality .
The software provides a freely available application programming interface , Steamworks , that developers can take advantage of to integrate many of  भाप 's कृत्यों भीतर उनके तन्त्र उत्पाद , सहित नक़ल सुरक्षा , नेटवर्किंग और matchmaking , in-game उपलब्धियाँ और  micro-transactions , and support for user-created content through Steam Workshop .
Though initially developed for use on Microsoft Windows , the client  रै विस्तारित  to include OS X and Linux versions , and clients with limited functionality on the PlayStation 3 console and for both iOS and Android mobile devices .
In addition to being a central hub for gaming software , Valve has created a version of Steam  साथ altered कार्यक्षमता to be प्रयुक्त in स्कूलों लिये शैक्षणिक  software , including a modified version of Portal 2 for teaching science and critical thinking lessons .
, there  हैं nearly 2000 खेल  available through Steam , and 54 million active user accounts .
As of January 2013 , Steam has  देखी over 6.6 लाख  concurrent players .
Steam has an estimated 50–70 % share of the  डिजिटल वितरण मार्केट लिये वीडियो  games .
The Steam logo is a stylised left-side fly-crank and rod from  the walschaerts वाल्व गियर of a भाप लोकोमोटिव  .
Jerry Lewis ( born March 16 , 1926 ) is an American comedian , actor  , सिंगर , फिल्मी निर्माता , screenwriter  and film director .
He is known  लिये उसके  slapstick humor in film , television , stage and radio .
He was originally paired up  साथ डीन मार्टिन in 1946 , forming the  famed comedy team of Martin and Lewis .
In addition to the duo 's popular nightclub work ,  वे स्ट्रक्चर  in a successful series of comedy films for Paramount Pictures .
Lewis is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and position as national  अध्यक्ष लिये the muscular dystrophy संघ  ( MDA ) .
Lewis has won several awards for lifetime achievements from The American Comedy Awards , Los Angeles Film Critics  संघ , और वेनिस फिल्मी पर्व , और he रै  two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame .
In 2005 , he received the  राज्यपालों पुरस्कार of the अकादमी of टेलीविज़न कला &  Sciences Board of Governors , which is the highest Emmy Award presented .
On February 22 , 2009 , the Academy of Motion Picture  कला और sciences awarded  Lewis the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award .
The Rhine ( ; ; ) is a European river that runs from the Swiss canton of Grisons in the southeastern Swiss Alps through Germany and eventually  बहती into the उत्तर समुद्र coast in the नीदरलैंड्स और is the बारहवीं longest नदी  in Europe , at about , with an average discharge of more than .
The Rhine and the Danube formed most of the  उत्तरी अंतर्देशीय frontier of  the Roman Empire and , since those days , the Rhine has been a vital and navigable waterway carrying trade and goods deep inland .
It has also served as a defensive feature and has been the basis for  क्षेत्रीय और अंतरराष्ट्रीय  borders .
The many  castles और  prehistoric fortifications along the Rhine testify to its importance as a waterway .
नदी ट्रैफ़िक could be रोका at ये स्थितियाँ , प्रायः  for the purpose of collecting tolls , by the state that controlled that portion of the river .
Sri (  सिंहली )
Sri ( Devanagari : श्री , IAST ; Śrī ) , also transliterated as Sree or Shri or Shree  is a शब्द of संस्कृत उत्पत्ति , प्रयुक्त in the भारतीय उपमहाद्वीप  as polite form of address equivalent to the English `` Mr. '' in written and spoken language , or as a title of veneration for deities ( usually translated as `` Holy '' ) .
Design of complex structures like the International Space Station  needs in-depth समझना  of Structural Analysis .
Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design , construction , and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment , including works like roads , bridges ,  नहरों , dams , और इमारतें  .
Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after military engineering , and it was defined to distinguish non-military  अभियान्त्रिकी इससे  military engineering .
It is traditionally broken into several sub-disciplines including  पर्यावरणीय अभियान्त्रिकी , भूतकनीकी अभियान्त्रिकी , भूभौतिकी , भूगणित , कंट्रोल  engineering , structural engineering , biomechanics , nanotechnology , transportation engineering , earth science , atmospheric sciences , forensic engineering , municipal or urban engineering , water resources engineering , materials engineering , coastal engineering , surveying , and construction engineering .
Civil  अभियान्त्रिकी takes प्लेस on सब स्तर : in the पब्लिक सेक्टर  from municipal through to national governments , and in the private sector from individual homeowners through to international companies .
कैथरीन dunham in  Tropical Revue
Katherine  dunham in  Studio
Katherine Dunham  in तीव्र पुनर्विलोकन  Tropical Review , Martin Beck Theatre
Katherine Dunham  wearing नृत्य वेशभूषा
कैथरीन  Dunham in Cumbia
Katherine Dunham (  जून 22  , 1909 – May 21 , 2006 ) was an American dancer , choreographer , author , educator , and social activist .
Dunham had one of the most successful dance careers in American and European theater of the 20th century , and  निर्देशित उसके अपना नृत्य कम्पनी लिये  many years .
She has been  पुकारा the ``  matriarch and queen mother of black dance '' .
During her heyday in the 1940s and 1950s , Dunham was renowned throughout Europe and  लैटिन अमेरिका और थी widely लोकप्रिय  in the United States , where the Washington Post called her `` dancer Katherine the Great '' .
For almost  तीस सालो वो कायम  the Katherine Dunham Dance Company , the only self-supported American black dance troupe at that time , and over her long career she choreographed more than ninety individual dances .
dunham थी an innovator in african-american  modern dance as well as a leader in the field of dance anthropology , or ethnochoreology .
Sphagnum is a genus of between 1510 and 3500 species of mosses , commonly called peat  मॉस due to इसके व्यापकता in गीला habitats  where it contributes to the formation of peat bogs and mires .
Sphagnum accumulations can store water , since both living and dead plants can hold large quantities of  जल अंदर उनके कोशिकाएं ; पौधे may थाम इससे 16-26  times as much water as their dry weight depending on the species .
The empty cells  सहायता retain जल  in drier conditions .
Hence , as sphagnum moss grows ,  it can धीरे स्प्रेड into drier शर्तें  , forming larger peatlands , both raised bogs and blanket bogs .
These peat accumulations then provide habitat for a wide array of peatland plants , including sedges and ericaceous  shrubs , as खूब as orchids और  carnivorous plants .
Sphagnum and the peat formed from it do not decay readily  क्युकी of the phenolic यौगिकों  embedded in the moss 's cell walls .
In addition , bogs , like all  वेटलैंड्स , develop अवायवीय मृदा शर्तें  , which produces slower anaerobic decay rather than aerobic microbial action .
Peat moss can also acidify its surroundings  by लेने up cations , ऐसे as  calcium and magnesium , and releasing hydrogen ions .
Under the right conditions , peat can accumulate to a  गहराई of अनेक  meters .
Different species of Sphagnum have different tolerance limits for flooding and pH , so any one  peatland may have a क्रमांक of  different Sphagnum species .
Individual  peat मॉस पौधे consist of a प्रमुख स्टेम ,  with tightly arranged clusters of branch fascicles usually consisting of two or three spreading branches and two to four hanging branches .
The top of the plant , or capitulum , has compact clusters of  यंग शाखाओं  .
Along the stem are scattered leaves  of विभिन्न  shapes , named stem leaves ; the shape varies according to species .
The leaves consist of two kinds of cells ; small , green , living cells (  chlorophyllose कोशिकाएं ) , और विशाल  , clear , structural , dead cells ( hyaline cells ) .
the latter have the  large water-holding capacity .
The earliest version of the Network Card ,  जारी हस्तचालित बल्कि  than through an APTIS machine .
The first APTIS  संस्करण  of the Network Card .
This was used from the start of the APTIS era in 1986/1987 until well into the 1990s , as stocks had to be  प्रयुक्त up despite the परिचय of the new-look  orange-banded version in 1991 .
The  परिचय of the weekday न्यूनतम किराया कंडीशन in 2002  resulted in a minor change : the red `` R '' shows that this is the `` Revised '' version of the railcard .
This  संस्करण is  still in use as of 2007 .
The Network Railcard is a  छूट कार्ड introduced in 1986 by अंग्रेजों रेल  , upon the creation of their Network SouthEast area around London , England .
The card is intended  to प्रोत्साहित अवकाश सफर by रेल by offering छूट  for adults and accompanying children on a wide range of off-peak fares .
The range of discounts available , and the price of the card , have varied since that  समय , लकिन the कार्ड  has always been valid for a year 's unlimited use .
It can be purchased by any person aged 16 or over from any staffed National Rail station or Rail Appointed Travel Agent , by completing an  अनुप्रयोग रूप - no फ़ोटोग्राफ़िक पहचान or अन्य दस्तावेज़ीकरण  is needed to buy or use the card .
It is one of a number of concessionary fare schemes  उपलब्धियाँ on the अंग्रेजों रेल  system .
The United Nations ( UN ; French : Organisation des Nations Unies , ONU ) is the world 's largest ,  foremost , और सबसे prominent अंतरराष्ट्रीय संगठन  .
The stated aims of the United Nations include promoting and facilitating cooperation in international law , international security , economic development , social progress , human rights , civil rights  , सिविल लिबर्टीज  , political freedoms , democracy , and the achievement of lasting world peace .
The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the  लीग of राष्ट्र , to रोकें  wars between countries , and to provide a platform for dialogue .
It contains  अनेक subsidiary  organizations to carry out its missions .
at इसके founding , the  UN had 51 member states ; as of 2011 , there are 193 .
From its offices around the world , the UN and its specialized agencies decide on substantive and  प्रशासनिक  issues in regular meetings held throughout the year .
The organization has six principal organs : the General Assembly ( the main deliberative assembly ) ; the Security Council ( for deciding certain resolutions for peace and security ) ; the Economic and Social Council ( for assisting in promoting international economic and social cooperation and development ) ; the Secretariat ( for providing studies , information , and facilities needed by the UN ) ; the International Court of Justice (  the प्राथमिक न्यायिक अंग ) ; और the संयुक्त राष्ट्र ट्रस्टीशिप परिषद ( जिससे  is currently inactive ) .
Other prominent UN System agencies include the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , the World Food Programme ( WFP ) and United Nations Children  's निधि  ( UNICEF ) .
The UN 's most prominent position is that of the  दफ्तर of secretary-general जिससे रै महरूम आयोजित by बैन ki-moon  of South Korea since 2007 .
The United Nations  मुख्यालय resides in अंतरराष्ट्रीय  territory in New York City , with further main offices at Geneva , Nairobi , and Vienna .
The organization is financed from assessed and voluntary contributions from its member states ,  और रै छह आधिकारिक भाषाएं : अरबी  , Chinese , English , French , Russian , and Spanish .
South Beach , also nicknamed SoBe , is a neighborhood in the city of Miami Beach , Florida , United  राज्य , स्तिथ due ईस्ट of मियामी नगर उचित  between Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean .
The area encompasses all  of the अवरोध  islands of Miami Beach south of Indian Creek .
This area was the first section of Miami Beach to be developed , starting in the 1910s ,  धन्यवाद to the विकास प्रयत्न of कार्ल G. फिशर , the lummus भाइयो  , and John S. Collins , the latter whose construction of the Collins Bridge provided the first vital land link between mainland Miami and the beaches .
The area has gone through numerous artificial and  प्राकृतिक परिवर्तन  over the years , including a booming regional economy , increased tourism , and the 1926 hurricane , which destroyed much of the area .
As of 2010 , about  39,186 निवासियों सजीव  in South Beach .
The United States  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1960 थी the 44th quadrennial अध्यक्षीय  election , held on Tuesday , November 8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party nominated incumbent Vice-President Richard Nixon , while the Democratic  पार्टी मनोनीत जॉन F. कैनेडी , सीनेटर  from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President ,  रिपब्लिकन  Dwight D. Eisenhower , was not eligible for re-election after serving the maximum two terms allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
Kennedy was elected with a lead of 112,827 votes , or 0.17 % of the popular vote , giving him a  विजय of 303 to 219 in the चुनावी कॉलेज , the closest चूंकि  1916 .
This was the  पहला चुनाव  in which all fifty of the current United States participated .
A number of factors  बताइये क्यों the चुनाव  was so close .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which  ठेस the लाज़िम रिपब्लिकन , और he था the लाभ  of 17 million more registered Democrats than Republicans .
Furthermore  , the नई मत कि  Kennedy gained among Catholics almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills decisively  outmatched निक्सन  's .
In the end , Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight , and he wasted energy by campaigning  in सब 50 राज्य बजाय of concentrating on  the swing states .
Kennedy used his large , well-funded campaign organization to win the nomination , secure endorsements , and , with  the सहायता of the पिछला of the  big-city bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He relied on running mate Lyndon B. Johnson to hold the South and used television  effectively .
This election is notable as  होने the पहला समय in u.S. इतिहास  that two sitting U.S . Senators ( Kennedy and Johnson ) were elected as president and vice-president , a phenomenon that has been repeated once , by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
A  पोस्टर लिये a c. 1884 अमरीकी उत्पादन  of Macbeth , starring Thomas W. Keene .
Depicted ,  काउंटर clockwise इससे top-left  , are : Macbeth and Banquo meet the witches ; just after the murder of Duncan ; Banquo 's ghost ; Macbeth duels Macduff ; and Macbeth .
Macbeth is a  खेल लिखा  by William Shakespeare .
It is considered one of his darkest  और सबसे शक्तिशाली  tragedies .
Set in Scotland , the play dramatizes the corroding  मनोवैज्ञानिक और राजनैतिक प्रभाव उत्पादित जब इसके समर्थक  , the Scottish lord Macbeth , chooses evil as the way to fulfill his ambition for power .
He commits regicide to become king and then furthers his moral  descent साथ a शासनकाल of murderous आतंक to रहो in शक्ति , आखिरकार plunging  the country into civil war .
In the end , he loses everything that gives  अर्थ और purpose to उसके  life before losing his life itself .
the  play is believed to have been written between 1603 and 1607 , and is most commonly dated 1606 .
The earliest account of a performance of what was probably Shakespeare 's play is  अप्रैल 1611 , जब साइमन forman अंकित देखकर ऐसे  a play at the Globe Theatre .
It was first published in the Folio of 1623 , possibly  इससे  a prompt book .
It was most likely  लिखा दौरान the शासनकाल  of James I , who had been James VI of Scotland before he succeeded to the English throne in 1603 .
James was a patron of Shakespeare’s acting company , and of all the plays Shakespeare wrote during James’s reign  , मैकबेथ सबसे clearly reflects the playwright’s संबंध  with the sovereign .
Macbeth is Shakespeare’s shortest tragedy , and tells the story of a brave Scottish general named Macbeth who receives a prophecy from a trio of witches that  एक दिन he होगा become किंग of स्कॉटलैंड  .
Consumed by ambition and spurred to action  by उसके बीवी , मैकबेथ हत्याएं किंग  Duncan and takes the throne for himself .
His reign is racked with guilt and paranoia , and he soon becomes a tyrannical ruler as he is forced to commit more  और अधिक हत्याएं  to protect himself from enmity and suspicion .
The  bloodbath swiftly takes मैकबेथ  and Lady Macbeth into realms of arrogance , madness , and death .
Shakespeare 's source for the tragedy is the account of King Macbeth of Scotland , Macduff , and Duncan in Holinshed 's Chronicles ( 1587 ) , a history of England , Scotland and Ireland familiar to  शेक्सपियर और उसके contemporaries , हालांकि the कार्यक्रम in the खेल differ extensively  from the history of the real Macbeth .
In the backstage  संसार of थिएटर , कुछ मानना कि the खेल is शापित , और होगा नहीं  mention its title aloud , referring to it instead as `` the Scottish play `` .
Over  the कोर्स of अनेक सदियां , the  play has attracted some of the most renowned actors to the roles of Macbeth and Lady Macbeth .
It has been adapted to film , television , opera , novels , comic  किताबे , और अन्य मीडिया  .
The Milton Hershey School is a private philanthropic (  pre-k through 12 ) बोर्डिंग  school in Hershey , Pennsylvania .
Originally named the Hershey Industrial School , the institution was founded and funded by chocolate  उद्योगपति मिल्टन snavely hershey  and his wife , Catherine Sweeney Hershey .
The school was originally established for  impoverished , स्वस्थ , caucasian , पुरूष अनाथ , जबकि आज  it serves students of various backgrounds .
The Milton Hershey School Trust , which funds the school , owns controlling interest in The Hershey Company and owns the Hershey  entertainment और रिसॉर्ट कम्पनी ( herco ) जिससे oversees अनेक of the  area hotels along with a theme park called Hersheypark .
With over six billion dollars in  एसेट , the मिल्टन hershey स्कूल  is one of the wealthiest schools in the world .
the स्कूल is overseen  by a Board of Managers .
The school currently serves 1,818 students , and  योजनाएँ  to grow to 2,100 students by 2013 .
A member of  कोर : गठबन्धन लिये  Residential Education , it is the largest residential education program in the US .
Epub may  refer to:
EPUB , a free  और  open e-book standard
Electronic article , articles in scholarly journals or  मैगज़ीन कि can be पहुँचा via इलेक्ट्रॉनिक  transmission
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the  व्यापक ड्रग गाली रोकथाम और कंट्रोल अधिनियम of 1970  .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the  manufacture , importation  , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also served as the national implementing legislation for the Single  सम्मेलन on narcotic  Drugs .
The legislation created five Schedules (  classifications ) , साथ varying  qualifications for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000 , which placed gamma hydroxybutyrate in Schedule I . Classification decisions are required to be  बना on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित लिये गाली ( an अपरिभाषित पद ) , फिलहाल स्वीकृत चिकित्सा उपयोग  in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
Second-language acquisition or  second-language सीखना is the प्रक्रम by जिससे लोगों  learn a second language .
Second-language acquisition ( often  abbreviated to sla ) भी refers to  the scientific discipline devoted to studying that process .
Second language refers to any language learned in addition to a person 's first language ; although the concept is  नामित second-language अधिग्रहण , it can भी चरितार्थ the सीखना of तीसरा , चौथी , or subsequent भाषाएं  .
Second-language acquisition refers to what learners do ; it does not  refer to practices  in language teaching .
The academic discipline of second-language  अधिग्रहण is a subdiscipline  of applied linguistics .
It is broad-based and relatively  नई .
As  खूब as the विभिन्न शाखाओं of भाषाविज्ञान , second-language अधिग्रहण is भी  closely related to psychology , cognitive psychology , and education .
To separate the academic discipline from the learning process itself , the  शर्तें second-language अधिग्रहण शोध , second-language  studies , and second-language acquisition studies are also used .
SLA research began as an interdisciplinary  फ़ील्ड , और क्युकी of इस it  is difficult to identify a precise starting date .
However , it does  appear to  have developed a great deal since the mid-1960s .
The  पद अधिग्रहण थी originally  used to emphasize the subconscious nature of the learning process , but in recent years learning and acquisition have become largely synonymous .
Second-language acquisition can incorporate heritage  भाषा  learning , but it does not usually incorporate bilingualism .
Most SLA researchers see bilingualism as being the end result of learning a language , not the process itself , and see  the term  as referring to native-like fluency .
लेखक in फ़ील्ड ऐसे as शिक्षा और  psychology , however , often use bilingualism loosely to refer to all forms of multilingualism .
Second-language acquisition is also not  to be contrasted साथ the  acquisition of a foreign language ; rather , the learning of second languages and the learning of foreign languages involve the same fundamental processes in different situations..
There has been much debate about exactly  कैसा भाषा is सीखे , और अनेक  issues are still unresolved .
There are many theories of second-language acquisition , but none are accepted as a complete  स्पष्टीकरण by सब sla शोधकर्ताओं  .
Due to the  interdisciplinary प्रकृति of  the field of second-language acquisition , this is not expected to happen in the foreseeable future .
Forbes list of billionaires is an annual ranking of the world 's wealthiest  लोगों , compiled और प्रकाशित by फोर्ब्स , an अमरीकी  national business magazine .
The total net worth of each individual on the list is estimated , in United States dollars ,  आधारित on  their assets and accounting for debt .
The list only represents each person 's valuation on a single day , due to daily  fluctuations among एक्सचेंज दरों और भण्डार  valuations .
The United States Secret Service is a  u.S. संघीय विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसी कि is भाग  of the United States Department of Homeland Security .
The sworn members are  विभाजित among  the Special Agents and the Uniformed Division .
Until March 1 , 2003 , the Service was  भाग of the संयुक्त  States Department of the Treasury .
The U.S. Secret Service has  दो पृथक क्षेत्रों  of responsibility:
Financial Crimes , covering missions such as  रोकथाम और छानबीन of counterfeiting of u.S.  currency and U.S. treasury securities , and investigation of major fraud .
Protection , which entails ensuring the safety of current and former national leaders and their families , such as the President , past  राष्ट्रपतियों , वाइस राष्ट्रपतियों , अध्यक्षीय  candidates , visiting heads of state , and foreign embassies ( per an agreement with the U.S. State Department 's Bureau of Diplomatic Security ( DS ) Office of Foreign Missions ( OFM ) , etc . )
The Secret Service 's initial  जिम्मेदारी थी to investigate counterfeiting  of U.S. currency , which was rampant following the U.S. Civil War .
The agency then evolved into the United States ' first domestic  प्रज्ञा और counterintelligence एजेंसी  .
Many of the agency 's missions were later taken over by subsequent agencies such as the Federal Bureau  of छानबीन (  FBI ) , Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco , Firearms and Explosives ( ATF ) , Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) , and Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) .
`` Me and Bobby McGee '' is a  सोंग लिखा by क्रिस kristofferson  and Fred Foster , originally performed by Roger Miller .
Others performed the song later ,  सहित kristofferson खुद , और janis  Joplin who topped the U.S. singles chart with the song in 1971 after her death , making the song the second posthumous number-one single in U.S. chart history after `` ( Sittin ' On ) The Dock of the Bay `` by Otis Redding .
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 – April 12 , 1945 ) , also known by his  आद्याक्षर  , FDR , was the 32nd President of the United States ( 1933–1945 ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies  पारिभाषित अमरीकी उदारतावाद लिये the मध्य तीसरा of the  20th century .
With the bouncy popular song  `` प्रसन्न दिनों हैं यहाँ again `` as उसके अभियान थीम , fdr पराजित लाज़िम  Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over  पोलियो , fdr 's unfailing आशावाद  and activism contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against  जर्मनी और जापानी in संसार युद्ध ii , और restoring समृद्धि to  the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal —a variety of programs designed to  उपज राहत ( सरकारी कार्य लिये the बेरोजगार ) , रिकवरी ( आर्थिक  growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved  rapidly इससे 1933 to 1937 ,  but then relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937  prevented उसके पैकिंग the परम् अदालत or गुजर कोई  considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended about 1975–85 , except for the regulation of Wall Street  by the प्रतिभूति और एक्सचेंज आयोग , जिससे स्टिल exists  .
Along with several  छोटी कार्यक्रम , प्रमुख surviving कार्यक्रम  include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the  Japanese invasion  of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China and Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His  लक्ष्य थी to मेक  America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional  स्वीकृति , provided  Lend-Lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the  जापानी आक्रमण on पर्ल हार्बर on दिसम्बर  7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the  mobilization of the u.S.  economy to support the Allied war effort .
As an active military leader ,  रूज़वेल्ट implemented an overall युद्ध रणनीति on दो fronts कि  ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942  रूज़वेल्ट ordered the internment  of 100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people  स्थानांतरित to नई कार्य in युद्ध centers , और 16 लाख मेन और 300,000 महिलाओं यहूद drafted  or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated  the अमरीकी राजनैतिक झाँकी नहीं तभी दौरान the बारह  years of his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He  orchestrated the realignment  of voters that created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition  संयुक्त मजदूर संघ , बिग  city machines , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also influenced the later  सृष्टि of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र  and Bretton Woods .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by  विद्वानों as एक of the शीर्ष  three U.S. Presidents , along with Abraham Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his  वैचारिक स्थिति as `` a  little left of center . ''
Mara Salvatrucha ( commonly abbreviated as MS , Mara , and MS-13 ) is a transnational criminal gang that originated in Los Angeles  और रै स्प्रेड to  other parts of the United States , Canada , Mexico , and Central America .
The majority of the gang is  ethnically रचित of सेंट्रल  Americans and active in urban and suburban areas .
In the U.S. , the MS-13 has an  विशेषकर भारी उपस्थिति in लॉस एंजिल्स काउंटी और the सैन फ्रांसिस्को खाड़ी क्षेत्रफल in उत्तरी कैलिफ़ोर्निया ; the वॉशिंगटन , d.C. महानगर  areas of Fairfax County , Virginia , Montgomery County , Maryland , and Prince George 's County , Maryland ; Long Island , New York ; the Boston , Massachusetts area ; Charlotte , North Carolina ; and Houston , Texas .
There is also a presence of MS-13 in  टोरंटो , ओंटारियो ,  Canada .
सदस्यों of ms फर्क themselves  by tattoos covering the body and also often the face , as well as the use of their own sign language .
They are notorious for their use of violence and a subcultural moral code that predominantly consists of merciless  बदला और बेदर्द retributions  .
This cruelty of the distinguished members of the  `` maras '' or `` mareros '' अर्जित उन्हें  a path to be recruited by the Sinaloa Cartel battling against Los Zetas in an ongoing drug war south of the United States border .
Their wide-ranging activities have drawn the attention of the FBI and Immigration  और कस्टम  Enforcement , who have initiated wide-scale raids against known and suspected gang members – netting hundreds of arrests across the country .
Bones is an American crime comedy-drama television series that premiered on the Fox  संजाल in the संयुक्त राज्य  on September 13 , 2005 .
The show is based on forensic anthropology and forensic archaeology , with each episode focusing on an FBI case file concerning the mystery behind human remains brought by FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth ( David Boreanaz ) to the forensic  anthropologist dr. temperance `` हड्डियों '' ब्रेनन  ( Emily Deschanel ) .
The rest of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin , T. J. Thyne , Eric Millegan , Tamara  टेलर , जोनाथन एडम्स , और जॉन फ्रांसिस  Daley .
Created by  हार्ट hanson  , the series is very loosely based on the life and writings of novelist and forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs , who also produces the show .
Its title character , Temperance Brennan , is named  बाद the  protagonist of Reichs ' crime novel series .
Conversely , Dr. Brennan writes successful mystery novels based around a fictional ( in the Bones universe )  forensic anthropologist नामित कैथी reichs  .
Bones is a joint production by Josephson Entertainment , Far Field  प्रोडक्शन्स और 20th सदी फॉक्स टेलीविज़न  .
the श्रेणी रै समाप्त airing इसके आठवीं  season and has been renewed for a ninth season .
सुपर कटोरी xxv थी an अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल खेल between the अमरीकी फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) चैंपियन भैंस  Bills and the National Football Conference ( NFC ) champion New York Giants to decide the National Football League ( NFL ) champion for the 1990 season .
The Giants  पराजित the बिल्स by the स्कोर of 20–19  , winning their second ever Super Bowl .
It is the only Super  कटोरी decided by  one point .
The game  थी आयोजित at tampa  Stadium in Tampa , Florida , on January 27 , 1991 , during the height of the Gulf War .
It was thus  निभाई अंतर्गत much  patriotic fervor .
The proceedings included a rousing rendition of `` The  star-spangled  Banner `` by Whitney Houston during the pregame ceremonies .
The Bills and their explosive no-huddle offense were making their first Super Bowl appearance after finishing the regular season with  a 13-3 रिकार्ड , और अग्रणी the लीग in कुल अंक  scored with 428 .
In advancing to their second Super Bowl , the Giants also posted a 13-3 regular season record , but with a ball-control  ठोकर और a रक्षा कि अनुमत  a league low 211 points .
The game is best remembered for Bills placekicker Scott Norwood 's last-second  फ़ील्ड लक्ष्य attempt जिससे गई चौड़ी सही of the  uprights , leading to a Giants victory , and starting a four-game losing streak in the Super Bowl for the Bills .
The Giants set a Super Bowl record  पकड़कर  possession of the ball for 40 minutes and 33 seconds .
New York  भी overcame a 12-3 second-quarter  deficit , and made a 75-yard touchdown drive that consumed a Super Bowl record 9:29 off the clock .
Giants running back Ottis Anderson , who carried the  बॉल 21 टाइम्स लिये 102 गज और एक touchdown  , was named Super Bowl MVP .
He was the first awardee to receive  the newly नामित `` पीट rozelle ट्रॉफी '' ( नामित  for the former commissioner ) .
एंडरसन भी  recorded one reception for seven yards .
Malcolm X ( ; May 19 , 1925February 21 , 1965 ) , born Malcolm Little and also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz  ( ) , थी an african-american मुस्लिम मंत्री और इंसान  rights activist .
To his admirers , he was a courageous advocate for the rights of  अश्वेतों , a man जो indicted  white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans .
detractors अभियुक्त उसे  of preaching racism , black supremacy , and violence .
he रै महरूम पुकारा एक of the महानतम  and most influential African Americans in history .
Malcolm X 's father died—killed by white  supremacists , it थी rumored—when  he was young , and at least one of his uncles was lynched .
When  he थी 13 , उसके माँ थी  placed in a mental hospital , and he was placed in a series of foster homes .
in 1946 , at आयु  20 , he went to prison for breaking and entering .
In  थाना , मैल्कम x became a सदस्य of the स्वदेश  of Islam ; after his parole in 1952 , he quickly rose to become one of its leaders .
For a dozen years , Malcolm  x थी the पब्लिक फेस of the विवादास्पद समूह , लकिन मोहभंग साथ  Nation of Islam head Elijah Muhammad led him to leave the Nation in March 1964 .
After a period of travel in Africa and the Middle East , he returned to the United  राज्य , जहाँ he संस्थापित मुस्लिम मस्जिदे , inc. और the संगठन of afro-american  Unity .
In February 1965 , less than a year after leaving the Nation of Islam , he was assassinated by  तीन सदस्यों of the  group .
Malcolm X 's expressed  मान्यताओं बदला  substantially over time .
As a spokesman for the Nation of Islam he taught black  सर्वोच्चता और advocated विरह of ब्लैक और  white Americans —in contrast to the civil rights movement 's emphasis on integration .
After breaking with the Nation of Islam in 1964—saying of his association with it , `` I did many  बाते as a  [ Black ] Muslim that I 'm sorry for now .
I was a zombie then ... pointed in a certain direction and told to march '' —and becoming a Sunni Muslim , he disavowed racism and  expressed willingness to कार्य साथ सिविल अधिकारों नेताओ  , he continued to emphasize Pan-Africanism , black self-determination , and self-defense .
The third season of 90210 , an  अमरीकी टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  , premiered on Monday September 13 , 2010 .
The CW officially renewed the show for a third  ऋतु on फ़रवरी 16 ,  2010 .
With the reveal of the networks fall 2010 schedule , they announced their decision to move 90210 to Monday  नाइट्स at 8:00 pm , as a lead-in to गपशप  Girl .
It premiered on  सितंबर 13 , 2010 और  was met with generally positive reviews from critics .
The season  चयन up at the समाप्त of गर्मियाँ  and focuses on the students senior year of high school .
It follows Adrianna 's rise to fame , a new relationship  between चांदी और navid और a उलझन  Teddy who decides to reveal to his family and friends he is gay .
It also deals with the aftermath of  नाओमी क्लार्क 's  assault .
Regular cast members for the season included Shenae Grimes , Tristan Wilds ,  annalynne mccord , रयान eggold , जेसिका stroup , माइकल steger , जेसिका  Lowndes , Matt Lanter , Gillian Zinser , Trevor Donovan and Lori Loughlin .
रेबेका sinclair  continued her role as executive producer for the season .
The season premiered to 1.96 million viewers and  a 0.9 दरजा in the  adults 18–49 demographic .
christmas-themed एपीसोड  `` Holiday Madness '' , hit season highs in all key demos with 2.1 in The CW 's target demo of women 18–34 , a 1.4 in adults 18–34 and a 1.1 in adults 18–49 .
It was also the  सबसे देखी एपीसोड in over a साल साथ 2.2  million viewers tuning in .
The season finale aired on May 16  , 2011 .
The season averaged 1.75 million  सजीव दर्शक और  a 0.9 adults 18–49 rating .
It was  released on dvd in the  United States on August 30 , 2011 .
Elizabeth II ( Elizabeth Alexandra Mary ; born 21 April 1926 ) is the constitutional monarch of 16  sovereign राज्य , ज्ञात as the राष्ट्रमंडल realms , और उनके territories  and dependencies , and head of the 54-member Commonwealth of Nations .
She is Supreme Governor of the Church of England and , in some of her realms , carries the title  of defender of the आस्था as भाग of उसके पूरा शीर्षक  .
On her accession on 6 February 1952 ,  एलिज़ाबेथ became सिर of the राष्ट्रमंडल और महारानी regnant of सात स्वतंत्र राष्ट्रमंडल  countries : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , South Africa , Pakistan and Ceylon .
From 1956 to 1992 , the number of her realms varied as territories gained  स्वतंत्रता और कुछ realms  became republics .
At present , in addition to the first four aforementioned countries , Elizabeth is Queen of Jamaica , Barbados , the  बहामा , हरा , पापुआ नई गिनी , the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स , तुवालू  , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Her reign of years is  फिलहाल the दूसरी longest लिये a अंग्रेजों  monarch ; only Queen Victoria has reigned longer at over 63 years .
एलिज़ाबेथ थी  born in London and educated privately at home .
Her father acceded to the throne as George VI in 1936 on the abdication of his brother Edward VIII , from  जिससे समय वो थी the वारिस  presumptive .
She began to undertake public  कर्तव्य दौरान  the Second World War , in which she served in the Auxiliary Territorial Service .
In 1947 ,  वो शादीशुदा प्रिंस फिलिप , ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग  , with whom she has four children : Charles , Anne , Andrew , and Edward .
Her  राजतिलक सेवा  took place in 1953 and was the first to be televised .
The Queen 's many  ऐतिहासिक विज़िट और बैठक शामिल a राज्य विज़िट to  the Republic of Ireland and reciprocal visits to and from the Pope .
The Queen has seen major constitutional changes in her realms , such as devolution in the United Kingdom and the  patriation  of the Canadian constitution .
Times of personal significance have included the births and marriages of her children , the births of her grandchildren , the investiture of the  प्रिंस of वेल्स , और the जश्न of माइलस्टोन ऐसे as उसके  Silver , Golden , and Diamond Jubilees in 1977 , 2002 , and 2012 , respectively .
Major events in the Queen 's reign have included the  परेशानियों in उत्तरी आयरलैंड , the falklands  War , wars with Iraq and the War in Afghanistan .
There have  महरूम टाइम्स of निजी विषाद लिये उसके जिससे शामिल the मौत of उसके  father at 56 , the assassination of Prince Philip 's uncle , Lord Mountbatten , the breakdown of her children 's marriages in 1992 ( a year deemed her annus horribilis ) , the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law , Diana , Princess of Wales , and the deaths of her mother and sister in 2002 .
The Queen has occasionally faced severe press criticism of the royal family and republican sentiments ,  but  support for the monarchy and her personal popularity remain high .
The 2010 United States Senate election in Florida took place on November 2 , 2010 along with other elections to the United States Senate in other states as well as all elections to the United States  हाउस of प्रतिनिधि और विभिन्न राज्य और लोकल चुनावों  .
Republican Marco Rubio , former Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives  , पराजित स्वतंत्र चार्ली  Crist and Democrat Kendrick Meek in a three-way race .
One term Senator Mel Martinez was elected in  a बहुत बंद  race against Democrat Betty Castor in 2004 with 49 % of the vote .
Martinez  घोषित on दिसम्बर 2 , 2008 कि he  would not seek re-election to the Senate , and would resign prior to the end of his term .
In August  2009 , राज्यपाल चार्ली crist घोषित कि he होता नियुक्त  his former Chief of Staff , George LeMieux , a Republican , to the Senate seat being vacated by Martinez .
Governor Crist publicly  घोषित he थी कार्यशील  for the seat in mid-2009 .
At the time he received many Republican endorsements , such as the National  रिपब्लिकन senatorial कमेटी ,  Martinez , and the 2008 Republican presidential nominee John McCain .
His  support of the अमरीकी रिकवरी  and Reinvestment Act of 2009 hurt his popularity among conservatives , and candidate Marco Rubio surged .
In April  2010 crist घोषित he होता बूँद आउट  of the Republican primary and run as an independent .
The National Republican Senatorial Committee withdrew its endorsement of Crist and demanded a  refund of इसके अभियान  funds that it provided for the Crist campaign .
Congressman  kendrick नम्र थी the पहला  Democrat to declare his intention to run .
Alexander Snitker was the first member of the  libertarian पार्टी on the बैलट  for senator in Florida 's history .
Satellite view  of दोहा
Doha ( , ' or ' , literally : `` the  बिग पेड़ '' ) is the पूंजी नगर  of the state of Qatar .
Located  on the coast  of the Persian Gulf ,
it had a population of 998,651 in 2008 , and is  भी एक of the  municipalities of Qatar .
Doha is Qatar 's largest city , with over 60 % of the nation 's population residing in Doha or its  surrounding उपनगरों , और is भी the आर्थिक  centre of the country .
Doha also serves  as the सीट of सरकारी of क़तर  , which is ruled by Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani .
Doha is home to the Education City ,  an क्षेत्रफल devoted to शोध  and education .
Doha was the site of the first ministerial-level meeting of the  दोहा विकास गोलाकार of संसार  Trade Organization negotiations .
The city of Doha held the 2006 Asian Games , which was the largest Asian Games  कभी आयोजित  .
Doha also hosted the 2011 Pan Arab Games and  सबसे of the खेल at the 2011 afc  Asian Cup .
Doha hosted the UNFCCC Climate Negotiations ( COP  18 ) दिसम्बर 2012  and will host a large number of the venues for the 2022 FIFA World Cup .
The World Petroleum Council held the 20th World  पेट्रोलियम सम्मेलन in दोहा in दिसम्बर  2011 .
Paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired  air-filled स्पेसेस कि घेर the nasal गुहा (  maxillary sinuses ) , above the eyes ( frontal sinuses ) , between the eyes ( ethmoid sinuses ) , and behind the ethmoids ( sphenoid sinuses ) .
The sinuses are named for the facial bones in which  वे हैं स्तिथ  .
Lean manufacturing , lean enterprise , or lean production , often simply , ``  Lean , '' is a  production practice that considers the expenditure of resources for any goal other than the creation of value for the end customer to be wasteful , and thus a target for elimination .
Working from the perspective of the customer who  consumes a उत्पाद or सेवा , `` मान '' is पारिभाषित as कोई कार्रवाई or प्रक्रम कि a ग्राहक  would be willing to pay for .
Essentially , lean is  केन्द्रित on preserving  value with less work .
Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System ( TPS ) ( hence the term Toyotism is also  प्रचलित ) और  identified as `` Lean '' only in the 1990s .
TPS is renowned for its focus on reduction of the original Toyota seven wastes to improve overall customer value , but  वहीँ हैं varying perspectives on कैसा इस is बेहतरीन  achieved .
The steady growth of Toyota , from a small company to  the संसार 's largest automaker , रै केन्द्रित ध्यान  on how it has achieved this success .
icarly  logo
iCarly  is an अमरीकी sitcom कि airs on निकलोडियन  , which premiered on September 8 , 2007 .
Nickelodeon promoted many episodes so far such as `` iDo '' , `` iHire an Idiot '' , `` iPity  the nevel '' , `` idate sam  & Freddie '' , etc . as specials , despite their being regular episodes .
Every episode title begins with a lower case i which represents the internet  , as in `` icarly  '' .
The  दिखाएँ थी मनोनीत लिये an एमी  award for Outstanding Children 's Program in 2009 .
The series starring Miranda Cosgrove as Carly Shay , a 13-year-old who  becomes an अंतरजाल  star .
The series ended on November 23  , 2012 साथ the one-hour  special episode `` iGoodbye '' .
A total of 7 seasons  और 109 एपीसोड  were broadcast .
The largest audience of the series was 11.2 million viewers , with the  खास एपीसोड `` isaved अपना जीवन  '' premiered in January 2010 .
When Carly (  मिरांडा cosgrove ) और उसके sassy बेहतरीन dost sam  ( Jennette McCurdy ) act funny at a school talent show audition , tech-savvy Freddie ( Nathan Kress ) tapes it and posts it online without telling them .
After seeing the girls ' strong chemistry and banter , the online audience clamors for more and  the icarly वेबकास्ट  is born .
While grappling with typical issues of adolescence , Carly , Sam , and Freddie find out that  वे have भी become ऑनलाइन हस्तियाँ as उनके दिखाएँ – जिससे सुविधाएँ हुनर प्रतियोगिताओं  , recipes , problem-solving , and random dancing – garners international accolades .
Carly lives in Seattle , Washington with her 26-year-old brother and  संरक्षक स्पेंसर ( जेरी trainor ) और produces  the show in a makeshift third-floor studio loft in their apartment .
Their mother has never been seen or mentioned , but their father , Steven Shay ( David  chisum ) , is a u.S. एयर फ़ोर्स अधिकारी temporarily  stationed on a submarine , and is often mentioned but is only seen in person during the series finale episode , `` iGoodbye '' .
Westlife  यहूद an आयरिश लड़के  band which formed in 1998 and disbanded in 2012 .
originally हस्ताक्षरित by साइमन cowell और प्रबंधित by लुई वाल्श ,  the group 's final line-up consisted of Nicky Byrne , Kian Egan , Mark Feehily and Shane Filan .
Brian McFadden was a  सदस्य इससे 1998 जबतक  his departure in 2004 .
Westlife sold over 50 million  रिकॉर्ड  worldwide , a total that included studio albums , singles , video releases , and compilation albums .
The group accumulated 14 number-one singles in the United Kingdom ( the third-highest in UK  इतिहास ) , tying साथ चट्टान रिचर्ड  and ranking just behind The Beatles and Elvis Presley .
They achieved a total of 26 top ten  singles over उनके 14-year  career .
By 2010 , Westlife was listed in the Guinness World Records , as the UK 's  top-selling एल्बम समूह of the 21st सदी  .
They also  जीती the रिकार्ड of the साल ( the तभी म्यूज़िक पुरस्कार आधारित on पब्लिक मत in the  UK ) a record-breaking four times and in 2012 , the Official Charts Company listed Westlife 34th amongst the biggest-selling singles artists in British music history .
Despite their European and Asian success , Westlife never  प्रबंधित to ब्रेक into the u.S. मार्केट  , achieving only one hit single in 2000 : `` Swear It Again `` .
In October 2011 , Westlife announced their intention to split in 2012 , following their Greatest  हिट्स दौरे और the रिलीज of उनके महानतम  Hits album .
The  boyband 's  final concerts were held on 22 and 23 June 2012 at Croke Park Stadium in Dublin .
The first farewell concert  , offering 85,000 टिकटें , बेची आउट  in a record-breaking 5 minutes and the latter screened live in cinemas worldwide .
Vitamin A is a group of nutritionally unsaturated hydrocarbons , which  शामिल रेटिनॉल , retinal , retinoic एसिड और अनेक provitamin  A carotenoids among which beta-carotene is the most important .
Vitamin A  रै अनेक कृत्यों , it is महत्वपूर्ण  for growth and development , for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision .
Vitamin A  is needed by the retina of the नजर in the रूप of retinal  , which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin the light-absorbing molecule , that is necessary for both low-light ( scotopic vision ) and color vision .
Vitamin A also functions in a very different role as an irreversibly oxidized form of retinol known as retinoic acid , which is  an महत्वपूर्ण hormone-like विकास  factor for epithelial and other cells .
In foods of animal origin , the major form of vitamin A is an ester , primarily retinyl palmitate , which is converted to retinol ( chemically an  दारू ) in the छोटी  intestine .
the रेटिनॉल रूप कृत्यों  as a storage form of the vitamin , and can be converted to and from its visually active aldehyde form , retinal .
The associated acid ( retinoic acid ) , a metabolite that can be irreversibly  synthesized इससे विटामिन a , रै तभी आंशिक विटामिन  A activity , and does not function in the retina for the visual cycle .
Retinoic  एसिड is प्रयुक्त  for growth and cellular differentiation .
All  फ़ॉर्म of विटामिन a have a beta-ionone रिंग  to which an isoprenoid chain is attached , called a retinyl group .
Both structural features  हैं अनिवार्य लिये  vitamin activity .
The orange pigment of  गाजर – beta-carotene –  can be represented as two connected retinyl groups , which are used in the body to contribute to vitamin A levels .
Alpha-carotene and gamma-carotene also have a single retinyl group ,  जिससे दे उन्हें कुछ विटामिन कार्यकलाप .
None of the other  carotenes have विटामिन  activity .
The carotenoid beta- cryptoxanthin possesses an ionone group and  रै विटामिन कार्यकलाप in इंसानो .
Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms  in भोजन :
Retinol , the  रूप of विटामिन a अवशोषित जब  eating animal food sources , is a yellow , fat-soluble substance .
चूंकि the pure दारू रूप is  unstable , the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester .
It is also commercially produced and  administered as esters ऐसे as retinyl  acetate or palmitate .
The carotenes alpha-carotene , beta-carotene , gamma-carotene ; and the xanthophyll beta-cryptoxanthin ( all of which contain beta-ionone rings ) , but no other carotenoids , function as provitamin A in herbivores and omnivore animals , which possess the  एंजाइम ( 15-15'-dioxygenase ) जिससे cleaves beta-carotene  in the intestinal mucosa and converts it retinol .
In general , carnivores are poor converters of ionine-containing   carotenoids , and pure carnivores such as cats and ferrets lack 15-15'-dioxygenase and can not convert any carotenoids to retinal ( resulting in none of the carotenoids being forms of vitamin A for these species ) .
Selena Marie Gomez ( born July 22 , 1992 ) is an American  सिंगर और अभिनेत्री  .
She made her debut  as a चाइल्ड  actress in Barney & Friends .
In 2007 , Gomez came to prominence as a  अभिनीत डाल सदस्य in  the television series Wizards of Waverly Place .
वो हस्ताक्षरित to हॉलीवुड रिकॉर्ड the following  year , and became the founder and lead singer of the pop band Selena Gomez & the Scene .
Their studio albums Kiss & Tell ( 2009 ) , A Year Without Rain ( 2010 ) , and When the Sun Goes Down ( 2011 ) were certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) and  have शाखित platinum-certified singles `` naturally  `` , `` Who Says `` , and `` Love You like a Love Song `` .
After the release of television films and their accompanying soundtracks , Gomez made her theatrical film debut in  ramona और beezus in 2010  and starred in Monte Carlo in 2011 .
Upon the conclusion of Wizards of Waverly  प्लेस और the अंतराल of सेलिना गोमेज़ & the झाँकी in 2012 , वो केन्द्रित on  her film career , serving as a voice actress in Hotel Transylvania and starring in Spring Breakers the following year .
Her debut solo album is tentatively scheduled to be released in   summer 2013 , and is preceded by its lead single `` Come & Get It `` .
Outside of her work in the entertainment industry , Gomez is involved in philanthropic activities through charity work  और विभिन्न सोशल और पर्यावरणीय  causes .
Tracie Monique Spencer ( born July 12 , 1976 ) is an American R &  b और पॉप singer-songwriter  , actress , and model .
Sacramento is the capital city of the U.S. state of  कैलिफ़ोर्निया और the सीट  of government of Sacramento County .
It is located at the confluence of the Sacramento River and the American River in the  उत्तरी portion of कैलिफ़ोर्निया 's  expansive Central Valley .
साथ an अनुमानित 2011  population of 477,891 , it is the sixth-largest city in California and the 35th largest city in the United States .
Sacramento is the core cultural and economic center  of the sacramento महानगर क्षेत्रफल जिससे शामिल सात  counties with an estimated 2009 population of 2,527,123 .
Its metropolitan area is the fourth  largest in कैलिफ़ोर्निया बाद the वृहद  Los Angeles Area , San Francisco Bay Area , and the San Diego metropolitan area , as well as the 25th largest in the United States .
Sacramento was cited  by समय पत्रिका as अमेरिका  's most ethnically and racially integrated city in 2002 .
Sacramento became a city through the efforts of  the स्विस अप्रवासी जॉन  Sutter , Sr. , his son John Sutter , Jr. , and James W. Marshall .
Sacramento grew  जल्दी धन्यवाद to the सुरक्षा  of Sutter 's Fort , which was established by Sutter in 1839 .
During  the कैलिफ़ोर्निया सुनहरा फटाफट , sacramento थी a प्रमुख  distribution point , a commercial and agricultural center , and a terminus for wagon trains , stagecoaches , riverboats , the telegraph , the Pony Express , and the First Transcontinental Railroad .
California State University , Sacramento , more commonly known as Sacramento State or Sac State , is the  largest लोकल विश्वविद्यालयों  .
It is one of the twenty-three campuses of  the कैलिफ़ोर्निया  State University system .
Drexel University Sacramento is  स्तिथ in शहर  , Sacramento .
University of the Pacific  's mcgeorge स्कूल of विधि is  located in the Oak Park neighborhood .
In addition  , the विश्वविद्यालयों  of California , Davis is located in nearby Davis , west of the capital .
The UC Davis  चिकित्सा बीच ,  a world-renowned research hospital , is located in the city of Sacramento .
मेमोरियल दिन is a संयुक्त  States federal holiday which occurs every year on the final Monday of May .
Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and  महिलाओं जो died  while serving in the United States Armed Forces .
Formerly known as Decoration Day , it originated after the American Civil War to  commemorate the संघ और confederate  soldiers who died in the Civil War .
By the 20th century Memorial  दिन था महरूम विस्तारित  to honor all Americans who have died in all wars .
It typically marks the start of the summer  अवकाश ऋतु , जबकि मजदूर दिन marks इसके  end .
Many people visit  कब्रिस्तान और memorials  , particularly to honor those who have died in military service .
Many volunteers place an  अमरीकी ध्वज on प्रत्येक संगीन  in national cemeteries .
By the early 20th century , Memorial Day was an  अवसर लिये अधिक सामान्य expressions of मेमोरी , as  people visited the graves of their deceased relatives in church cemeteries , whether they had served in the military or not .
It also became a long weekend increasingly  devoted to खरीदारी , परिवार महफिलों ,  fireworks , trips to the beach , and national media events .
Annual Decoration Days for particular cemeteries  हैं आयोजित on a संडे in लेट वसन्त or जल्दी गर्मियाँ in कुछ ग्रामीण  areas of the American South , notably in the mountains .
In cases involving a family graveyard where remote ancestors as well as those  जो यहूद मृतक अधिक recently हैं दफ्न ,  this may take on the character of an extended family reunion to which some people travel hundreds of miles .
People gather on the designated day and  put पुष्प on  graves and renew contacts with kinfolk and others .
There often is a  धार्मिक सेवा और a `` डिनर on the मैदान , '' the परंपरागत पद  for a potluck meal in which people used to spread the dishes out on sheets or tablecloths on the grass .
It is believed that this practice began before the American Civil War and thus may reflect the  रियल उत्पत्ति of the `` मेमोरियल दिन ''  idea .
Memorial Day is not to be confused with Veterans Day ; Memorial Day is a day of remembering the men and women who died while serving , while Veterans Day celebrates the service of all U.S. military veterans  ,  living or dead .
Mt .  zion गिरिजाघर राज्य  history marker near Philadelphia , Mississippi .
Freedom Summer ( also known as the Mississippi Summer Project ) was a campaign in the United States launched in June 1964 to attempt to register as  अनेक अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी मतदाता as संभावित in मिसिसिपी , जिससे था  historically excluded most blacks from voting .
The project also set up dozens of Freedom Schools , Freedom Houses , and community centers in small towns throughout Mississippi  to सहायता the लोकल ब्लैक जनसांख्यिकी  .
The project was organized by the Council of Federated Organizations ( COFO ) , a coalition of the Mississippi branches of the  चार प्रमुख सिविल अधिकारों संगठन ( sncc , कोर , naacp और sclc ) .
Most of the impetus ,  नेतृत्व , और  financing for the Summer Project came from the SNCC .
Robert Parris Moses , SNCC field secretary and co-director of COFO ,  निर्देशित the गर्मियाँ प्रोजेक्ट  .
Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a music genre that originated in communities of primarily the `` Deep South `` of the  संयुक्त राज्य around the समाप्त of the 19th सदी इससे spirituals  , work songs , field hollers , shouts and chants , and rhymed simple narrative ballads .
The blues form , ubiquitous in jazz , rhythm and blues , and rock and roll is characterized by specific chord  progressions , of जिससे the twelve-bar ब्लूज़ कॉर्ड progression  is the most common .
The blue notes that , for expressive purposes are sung or played flattened or gradually bent (  नाबालिग 3rd to प्रमुख 3rd ) in संबंध to the पिच of the प्रमुख  scale , are also an important part of the sound .
The blues  विधा is आधारित on the ब्लूज़ रूप लकिन possesses  other characteristics such as specific lyrics , bass lines , and instruments .
Blues can be subdivided into several subgenres ranging from country to  शहरी ब्लूज़ कि यहूद अधिक or कम  popular during different periods of the 20th century .
बेहतरीन ज्ञात हैं  the Delta , Piedmont , Jump , and Chicago blues styles .
World War II marked the transition from acoustic  to इलेक्ट्रिक ब्लूज़ और the  progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience , especially white listeners .
In  the 1960s और 1970s  , a hybrid form called blues-rock evolved .
The term `` the blues '' refers to the `` blue devils '' , meaning melancholy and  उदासी ; an जल्दी उपयोग of the पद in  this sense is found in George Colman 's one-act farce Blue Devils ( 1798 ) .
Though the use of the phrase in  african-american म्यूज़िक may be पुरानी , it रै महरूम attested to चूंकि 1912 , जब हार्ट wand  's `` Dallas Blues `` became the first copyrighted blues composition .
In lyrics the phrase  is प्रायः  used to describe a depressed mood .
A quarter  डालर ,  commonly shortened to quarter , is a coin worth 1⁄4 of a United States dollar or 25 cents .
the क्वार्टर रै  been produced since 1796 .
The choice of 25¢ as a denomination , as  opposed to 20¢ जिससे is अधिक आम in  other parts of the world , originated with the practice of dividing Spanish Milled Dollars into eight wedge shaped segments ( cf. `` pieces of eight `` ) .
At one time `` two bits `` , i.e . two wedges , each wedge an eighth , thus a quarter of the  स्पेनी रियल , थी a आम  nickname for a quarter .
Day of the Dead ( ) is a Mexican holiday celebrated  throughout मैक्सिको और around the  world in other cultures .
The  अवकाश focuses on महफिलों of परिवार और मित्रों to दुवा  for and remember friends and family members who have died .
It is particularly celebrated in Mexico , where it is a national holiday , and  सब बैंको हैं बंद  .
The celebration takes place on November 1 and 2 , in connection  साथ the कैथोलिक छुट्टियाँ of  All Saints ' Day and All Souls ' Day .
Traditions connected with the holiday include building private altars honoring the deceased using sugar skulls , marigolds , and the favorite foods and  पेय of the रजि और visiting  graves with these as gifts .
They also leave  possessions  of the deceased .
Scholars trace the origins of the modern Mexican holiday to indigenous  observances डेटिंग वापस सैंकड़ों of सालो  and to an Aztec festival dedicated to the goddess Mictecacihuatl .
The holiday has spread throughout the world : In Brazil , Dia de Finados  is  a public holiday that many Brazilians celebrate by visiting cemeteries and churches .
in स्पेन , वहीँ हैं त्यौहार  and parades , and , at the end of the day , people gather at cemeteries and pray for their dead loved ones .
Similar observances occur elsewhere in Europe , and similarly themed celebrations appear in  अनेक एशियाई और अफ़्रीकी  cultures .
ANITA Mk  viii .
The  अनीता चिह्नित सात और अनीता चिह्नित viii calculators  were launched simultaneously in late 1961 as the world 's first all- electronic desktop calculators .
designed और  built by the Bell Punch Co .
in Britain , and  marketed through इसके sumlock  Comptometer division , they used vacuum tubes and cold-cathode switching tubes in their logic circuits and nixie tubes for their numerical displays .
They were the first of a series of desktop and hand-held electronic  calculators कि the कम्पनी थी to develop  and sell under the ANITA name into the mid-1970s .
George Washington ( – , 1799 ) was the first President of the United States ( 1789–1797 ) , the commander-in-chief of the Continental Army  दौरान the अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध , और  one of the Founding Fathers of the United States .
He presided over the convention that drafted the Constitution , which replaced the  आलेख of कनफेडरेशन और  established the position of President .
Washington was elected President  as the  unanimous choice of the 69 electors in 1788 , and he served two terms in office .
He oversaw the  सृष्टि of a दमदार , well-financed नेशनल सरकारी  that maintained neutrality in the wars raging in Europe , suppressed rebellion , and won acceptance among Americans of all types .
His leadership style established many  फ़ॉर्म और संस्कार of सरकारी कि have महरूम  used since , such as using a cabinet system and delivering an inaugural address .
Further , the peaceful transition  इससे उसके  presidency to the presidency of John Adams established a tradition that continues into the 21st century .
Washington  थी hailed as `` पिता of  his country `` even during his lifetime .
Washington was born into the provincial gentry of  औपनिवेशिक  Virginia ; his wealthy planter family owned tobacco plantations and slaves .
After both his  पिता और पुरानी  brother died when he was young , Washington became personally and professionally attached to the powerful William Fairfax , who promoted his career as a surveyor and soldier .
Washington quickly became a senior officer in  the औपनिवेशिक शक्तियां दौरान the पहला  stages of the French and Indian War .
Chosen by the Second Continental Congress in 1775 to be commander-in-chief of the Continental Army in the American Revolution , Washington managed  to फ़ोर्स the अंग्रेजों आउट of बोस्टन in 1776 , लकिन थी  defeated and almost captured later that year when he lost New York City .
After crossing the Delaware  नदी in the मुर्दे of शीत , he पराजित the अंग्रेजों  in two battles , retook New Jersey and restored momentum to the Patriot cause .
Because of his strategy ,  क्रांतिकारी शक्तियां captured दो प्रमुख अंग्रेजों सेना  at Saratoga in 1777 and Yorktown in 1781 .
Historians laud Washington for his selection and supervision of his generals , encouragement of morale and ability to hold together the army , coordination with the state  राज्यपालों और राज्य मिलिशिया इकाई , संबंध साथ कॉंग्रेस  and attention to supplies , logistics , and training .
In battle , however , Washington was repeatedly  outmaneuvered by अंग्रेजों सेनापतियों  with larger armies .
बाद विजय था महरूम finalized in 1783 , वॉशिंगटन  resigned as Commander-in-chief rather than seize power , proving his opposition to dictatorship and his commitment to American republicanism .
असंतुष्ट साथ the कमजोरियों of the आलेख of  Confederation , in 1787 Washington presided over the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution .
Elected unanimously as the first President of the United States in 1789 , he attempted to bring rival factions  साथ  to unify the nation .
He supported Alexander Hamilton 's programs to pay off all state and national debt  , to implement an प्रभावी कर प्रणाली और to बनाएँ a नेशनल बैंको (  despite opposition from Thomas Jefferson ) .
Washington  proclaimed the संयुक्त  States neutral in the wars raging in Europe after 1793 .
He avoided war with Great Britain and guaranteed a decade of peace and profitable trade by securing the Jay Treaty in 1795 ,  despite तीव्र विपक्ष  from the Jeffersonians .
Although never officially joining the Federalist Party ,  he समर्थित इसके कार्यक्रम  .
वॉशिंगटन 's विदाई पता थी an influential प्राइमर on रिपब्लिकन  virtue and a warning against partisanship , sectionalism , and involvement in foreign wars .
He retired from the presidency in 1797 and returned to his home , Mount Vernon ,  और उसके घरेलू जीवन जहाँ he प्रबंधित  a variety of enterprises .
He freed all his  स्लेव by उसके  final will .
Washington had a vision of a great and powerful nation that would be built on  रिपब्लिकन लाइनों  using federal power .
he sought to उपयोग the नेशनल सरकारी to  preserve liberty , improve infrastructure , open the western lands , promote commerce , found a permanent capital , reduce regional tensions and promote a spirit of American nationalism .
At his death , Washington was  eulogized  as `` first in war , first in peace , and first in the hearts of his countrymen '' by Henry Lee .
The Federalists made him the symbol of their  पार्टी लकिन लिये अनेक सालो , the jeffersonians जारी  to distrust his influence and delayed building the Washington Monument .
As the leader of the first successful revolution against a colonial empire in world history , Washington became an international  प्रतीक लिये मुक्ति और राष्ट्रवाद  , especially in France and Latin America .
Fiscal Year 2012 U.S.  संघीय बिता – नकदी  or Budget Basis .
फिस्कल साल  2012 U.S. Federal Receipts .
The Budget of the United States Government often begins as the President 's proposal to the U.S. Congress  जिससे अनुशंसा funding स्तर लिये the अगला फिस्कल साल ,  beginning October 1 .
However , Congress is the body required by law to pass a  बजट annually और to submit the बजट  passed by both houses to the President for signature .
Congressional decisions are  governed by नियम  and legislation regarding the federal budget process .
Budget committees set spending limits for the House and Senate  समितियों और लिये appropriations subcommittees , जिससे तब स्वीकृति  individual appropriations bills to allocate funding to various federal programs .
If Congress fails to pass an annual budget ( as has been the case since 2009 ) , a series of Appropriations bills  जरूर be passed as  `` stop gap '' measures .
After Congress approves an appropriations bill , it is sent to the  अध्यक्ष , जो may चिह्न it into विधि , or may  veto it ( as he would a budget when passed by the Congress ) .
A vetoed bill is sent back to Congress , which  can pass it into विधि साथ  a two-thirds majority in each chamber .
कॉंग्रेस may भी combine  all or some appropriations bills into an omnibus reconciliation bill .
In addition , the president  may निवेदन और the कॉंग्रेस may pass supplemental appropriations  bills or emergency supplemental appropriations bills .
Several  सरकारी एजेंसियों provide बजट  data and analysis .
These include the Government Accountability Office ( GAO ) , Congressional  बजट दफ्तर  , the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) and the U.S. Treasury Department .
These agencies have reported that the federal government is facing  a श्रेणी of महत्वपूर्ण financing चुनौतियां  .
In the short-run , tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession  और कर नीति चुनाव , जबकि expenditures have विस्तारित लिये युद्धों , बेरोजगारी  insurance and other safety net spending .
In the long-run , expenditures  सम्बन्धित to healthcare कार्यक्रम ऐसे  as Medicare and Medicaid are projected to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures .
New Guinea ( also , Tok Pisin : Niugini , Dutch :  nieuw गिनी , और ; historically : पापुआ ) is the संसार 's  second largest island , after Greenland , covering a land area of 786,000 km2 .
Located in the southwest Pacific Ocean , it lies geographically to the east of the Malay Archipelago , with  जिससे it is sometimes शामिल as भाग of a वृहद indo-australian द्वीपसमूह  .
geologically it is a भाग of  the same tectonic plate as Australia .
When world sea levels were low , the two shared shorelines ( which now lie 100 to 140 metres below sea level ) ,  combining साथ lands अभी inundated into the tectonic  continent of Sahul , also known as Greater Australia .
The two landmasses became separated when the area now known  as the टोरेस जलसन्धि flooded बाद the समाप्त of  the last glacial period .
anthropologically  , New Guinea is considered part of Melanesia .
Politically , the  पश्चिमी हाफ  of the island comprises two Indonesian provinces : Papua and West Papua .
The eastern  हाफ फ़ॉर्म the मेनलैंड  of the country of Papua New Guinea .
The island has a population of about 7.5 million ,  साथ a बहुत कम जनसांख्यिकी घनत्व of तभी  8 inh/km2 .
New Guinea is differentiated from its drier , flatter , and less fertile southern counterpart , Australia , by its much higher rainfall and  इसके क्रियाशील volcanic भूविज्ञान , साथ इसके उच्चतम पाइंट , puncak  Jaya , reaching an elevation of 4,884 m ( 16,023 ft ) .
Yet the two land masses share a similar animal fauna , with marsupials , including wallabies and possums , and  the egg-laying monotreme  , the spiny anteater , or echidna .
Other than bats and some two dozen indigenous rodent  genera , वहीँ हैं no pre-human  indigenous placental mammals .
Pigs , several additional species of rats , and the ancestor of the New Guinea Singing Dog were introduced with human  colonization  .
The human presence on the island dates back at least 40,000 years  to the oldest इंसान migrations आउट  of Africa .
Research indicates that the highlands were  an जल्दी और स्वतंत्र बीच of  agriculture , with evidence of irrigation going back at least 10,000 years .
Because of the time depth of its inhabitation and its highly  fractured लैंडस्केप , an unusually ऊँची क्रमांक of भाषाएं हैं बोला on the  island , with some 1,000 languages ( a figure higher than that of most continents ) having been catalogued out of an estimated world-wide pre-Columbian total of 6,000 human dialects .
Most are classified as Papuan languages , a generally  स्वीकृत भौगोलिक पद जिससे  a minority of authors hold to be a genetic one .
A number of Austronesian  भाषाएं हैं बोला  on the coast and on offshore islands .
In the 16th century Spanish  explorers खोजा the  island and called it Nueva Guinea .
in हाल इतिहास पश्चिमी  New Guinea was included in the Dutch East Indies colony .
The Germans annexed the northern coast  of the पूर्वी हाफ of the द्वीप as जर्मनी नई गिनी in  their pre–World War I effort to establish themselves as a colonial power , whilst the south eastern portion was reluctantly claimed by Britain .
Following the Treaty of Versailles , the German portion was awarded to Australia ( which was already governing the  अंग्रेजों अर्जी , नामित the territory of पापुआ ) as a लीग of राष्ट्र  mandate .
The eastern half of the island was granted  स्वतंत्रता इससे ऑस्ट्रेलिया  as Papua New Guinea in 1975 .
The western half gained independence from the Dutch  in 1961 , लकिन became भाग of इंडोनेशिया जल्द  afterwards in controversial circumstances .
`` The Van Buren Boys '' is the 148th episode of  the sitcom seinfeld , और नाम  of a fictional New York street gang .
Their sign is crossing the hands , with one hand with all the fingers  'up ' और स्प्रेड आउट  .
The other  हाथ रै सब लकिन the अंगूठा  and pointer finger up , for a total of eight ( 8 ) .
The gang is named for the 8th President of the United States , Martin Van Buren  ( जो थी the पहला अध्यक्ष इससे नई  York ) .
This was the 14th episode for the  8th ऋतु  .
It aired on February  6 , 1997  .
Bevo  चिह्न
Bevo was a non-alcoholic malt  पेय , or निकट बियर , brewed in the संयुक्त  States by the Anheuser-Busch company beginning in the early 20th century .
Bevo enjoyed its greatest success  दौरान the समय of निषेध  , when beer , wine and distilled liquors , were made illegal for thirteen years .
The Anheuser-Busch company started brewing Bevo when alcoholic beverages were prohibited in 1916 by  the संयुक्त राज्य  armed forces .
Production rose greatly  साथ नेशनल निषेध  in 1919 , and Bevo was by far the most popular of the many `` cereal beverages '' or `` near beers '' of the time .
At the peak of its popularity in the  जल्दी 1920s , अधिक than पाँच लाख मामले  of Bevo were sold annually .
Renard with a mug of  bevo  , depicted in terra cotta on the interior walls of the Bevo building , St. Louis
Labels on the bottles  billed it as  `` Bevo the Beverage '' .
The name `` Bevo '' was coined from the word `` beverage '' and the Slavic language word for beer `` pivo '' , and was pronounced `` Bee-vo  ''  .
कुछ bevo विज्ञापन प्रदर्शित the अक्षर `` renard the  Fox `` ( based on the protagonist of a medieval French folk-tale ) , and promotional mugs with this character were manufactured .
In 1930 Anheuser-Busch built a series of boat-bodied cars in its St. Louis shops called the ``  bevo नौकाएँ '' जिससे यहूद प्रयुक्त लिये प्रमोशन  .
Seven are believed to have been built on Pierce-Arrow 8-cylinder chassis while one surviving example was  आधारित  upon 1930 Cadillac 353 V8 .
Billboard advertising Bevo in Trenton ,  नई जर्सी , 1917
A contemporary advertisement read `` Cooling and invigorating , Bevo  the पेय  .
अनुक्रम by the मामला इससे  your grocer , druggist , or dealer . ''
The paper label on the back of the bottle read `` The All-Year-Round Soft  पेय  .
Appetizing - Healthful  - पौष्टिक  - Refreshing .
Milk or water may  contain जीवाणु  .
BEVO  never करता  . ''
Bevo became part of the popular  संस्कृति of the समय , और is  mentioned in various popular songs and Vaudeville skits of the era .
This led to secondary slang uses of the word  ; लिये उदाहरण , in अमरीकी सैन्य कठबोली a यंग  and inexperienced officer was called a `` Bevo '' .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों of टेक्सास नामित इसके शुभंकर  `` Bevo '' , a name which has stuck to this day .
Irving Berlin included a paean to the drink , `` You Ca n't Stay Up on Bevo ''  , in उसके 1917 फौज revue ,  Yip Yip Yaphank .
In the late 1920s smuggled  बूटलेग बियर और liquor  as well as `` homebrew `` , cut into Bevo 's marketshare .
With sales flattening to  100,000 मामले  by 1929 , Anheuser-Busch stopped production .
The Bevo  मिल , st.  Louis , in 2008
The Bevo building  , साथ the renard अक्षर  prominently displayed at the corners , still operates as a bottling facility at their main brewery in St. Louis , Missouri .
The landmark Bevo Mill ,  constructed by अगस्त anheuser  Busch , Sr. in 1917 .
It was closed in 2009 , but it  reopened  in October 2009 under new owners .
Bevo is also mentioned in the short story `` The Killers ``  by अर्नेस्ट हेमिंगवे ;  as well as in Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis .
Mylanta is an over the  काउंटर दवा प्रयुक्त लिये the उपचार of एसिड  reflux , heartburn , and gastroesophageal reflux disease ( also known as GERD ) .
Foremilk and Hindmilk samples  of इंसान  breast milk
A glass of pasteurized  गाय  milk
Milk is a white liquid produced by the  mammary ग्रंथियों of स्तनधारियों .
It is the primary source of nutrition for young mammals before  वे हैं समर्थ to डाइजेस्ट अन्य  types of food .
Early- lactation milk contains colostrum  , जिससे carries the माँ 's antibodies  to the baby and can reduce the risk of many diseases in the baby .
It also contains many  अन्य nutrients  .
As an agricultural product , milk is  निकाली इससे स्तनधारियों  and used as food for humans .
Worldwide , dairy farms produced about 730 million tonnes of  मिल्क in 2011  .
India is the world 's largest producer  और उपभोक्ता  of milk , yet neither exports nor imports milk .
New Zealand , the European Union 's 27 member  राज्य , ऑस्ट्रेलिया , और  the United States are the world 's largest exporters of milk and milk products .
China and Russia are the  संसार 's largest importers  of milk and milk products .
Throughout  the संसार , वहीँ हैं  more than 6 billion consumers of milk and milk products .
Over 750 million  लोगों सजीव भीतर  dairy farming households .
Milk is a key contributor to improving nutrition and food security  विशेषकर in विकासशील देशों  .
Improvements in livestock and dairy technology offer significant promise in reducing  गरीबी और कुपोषण in the  world .
Motorcycle  स्पीडवे , प्रायः referred to as स्पीडवे  , is a motorcycle sport involving four and sometimes up to six riders competing over four anti-clockwise laps of an oval circuit .
Speedway motorcycles use only one gear and have no brakes and racing takes place on a flat oval track  प्रायः consisting of मैल or loosely packed shale  .
Competitors use this surface to slide their machines sideways , powersliding or  broadsiding into the  bends .
On the straight  भाग of the track  the motorcycles reach speeds of up .
The exact origins of the sport are unknown but there is evidence  of a प्रकार of स्पीडवे रेसिंग होने practised in the यूएसए पहले  the First World War and in Australia in the late 1910s and early 1920s .
There are now  दोनो घरेलू और अंतरराष्ट्रीय प्रतियोगिताओं in a क्रमांक  of countries including the Speedway World Cup whilst the highest overall scoring individual in the Speedway Grand Prix events is pronounced the world champion .
Speedway is popular in central and northern Europe and to a lesser extent in  ऑस्ट्रेलिया और उत्तर अमेरिका  .
A variant of track  रेसिंग , स्पीडवे is administered  internationally by the Fédération Internationale de Motocyclisme ( FIM ) .
Domestic speedway events are regulated by  fim संबद्ध नेशनल मोटर खेल  federations .
Vitamin D is a group of  fat-soluble secosteroids  responsible for intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate .
In humans , the most important related compounds of  विटामिन d हैं विटामिन  D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and  ergocalciferol ( विटामिन d2 ) हैं अद्वितीय  as they constitute what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements .
The body can also synthesize vitamin D ( from cholesterol ) when sun exposure is  पर्याप्त ( hence  its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin , it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense , as it  can be synthesized in पर्याप्त  amounts by most mammals exposed to sunlight .
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D  efficiently और जरूर प्राप्त  it in their diet . )
An organic  रासायनिक यौगिक ( or सम्बन्धित नियत of यौगिकों ) is तभी scientifically  called a vitamin when it can not be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from their diet .
However , as with other compounds commonly called vitamins , vitamin D was discovered in an effort to find the dietary  पदार्थ कि थी lacking in a बीमारी , namely  , rickets , the childhood form of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like  अन्य यौगिकों पुकारा विटामिन , in the  developed world vitamin D is added to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid disease due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect  endogenous संश्लेषण इससे एक्सपोज़र  to sunlight as well as intake from the diet , and it is believed that synthesis may contribute generally to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a feedback loop that prevents toxicity but , because of  अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट रिस्क इससे धूप , no सुझाव हैं  issued by the Institute of Medicine , USA , for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly , the Dietary Reference  intakes लिये विटामिन d assume कि no संश्लेषण occurs  and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet , although that will rarely occur in practice .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to  calcidiol , जिससे is भी ज्ञात as calcifediol ( इन  ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin D metabolite that is measured in serum to determine a person 's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol , the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol circulates as a hormone in the blood , regulating the concentration of  कैल्सियम और फास्फेट in the bloodstream  and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also  परिवर्तित to calcitriol बाहर of the गुर्दे  for other purposes , such as the proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to prevent osteomalacia or  rickets , the प्रमाण लिये अन्य स्वास्थ्य  effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent .
the बेहतरीन प्रमाण of लाभ is लिये अस्थि स्वास्थ्य और a घटी in मृत्यु in बुजुर्ग महिलाओं .
The Duramax  is a सामान्य मोटर्स डीज़ल इंजन  family for light- and medium duty trucks , designed by Isuzu .
The 6.6-liter Duramax is produced by DMAX , a  संयुक्त venture  between GM and Isuzu in Moraine , Ohio .
This engine was initially installed in 2001 model year Chevy and  जीएमसी ट्रक और रै महरूम an विकल्प चूंकि  then in pickups , vans , and medium-duty trucks .
In 2006 , production at Moraine was  reportedly सीमित to  approximately 200,000 engines per year .
On May 9 , 2007 ,  dmax घोषित the उत्पादन of the  1,000,000th Duramax V-8 diesel at its Moraine facility .
duramax  LML
balto  .
is also a  परंपरागत लिखा  abbreviation for Baltimore , Maryland .
Statue of Balto in  सेंट्रल पार्क  ( New York City )
Balto ( 1919 – March 14 , 1933 ) was a Siberian Husky sled dog who led his team on the  फाइनल लेग of the 1925 सीरम चलाएं to nome , in जिससे डिप्थीरिया antitoxin थी  transported from Anchorage , Alaska , to Nenana , Alaska , by train and then to Nome by dog sled to combat an outbreak of the disease .
The run is  commemorated by the सालाना  Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race .
balto थी नामित  after the Sami explorer Samuel Balto .
balto died at  the age of 14 .
Professor Stephen Hawking , known for being a  सैद्धांतिक physicist , रै  appeared in many works of popular culture .
The Nissan Maxima is a mid-size / entry-level luxury car manufactured by Nissan , marketed as  the `` four-door खेल car  '' .
The origins of the Maxima began in July 1976 as the Datsun 810 , an upscale six-cylinder version of the Bluebird , and was spun into its own line in 1981 , having been made  लगातार चूंकि  then .
The  `` उच्चिष्ट  '' name was applied gradually , beginning in 1981 .
Most pre-2004 Maximas were built in Oppama , Japan , until  the वर्तमान उत्तर अमरीकी  Maximas started being assembled in Smyrna , Tennessee .
The ``  उच्चिष्ट '' रै भी महरूम लागू  to Cefiros and Laurels in various markets .
Propolis as  छत्ता sealing
Propolis is a  resinous मिश्रण कि मधु मधुमक्खियों collect इससे  tree buds , sap flows , or other botanical sources .
It is used as a  sealant लिये  unwanted open spaces in the hive .
Propolis is used for small gaps ( approximately or less ) , while larger spaces  हैं प्रायः भर  with beeswax .
Its color varies depending on its  वनस्पति सोर्स , the सबसे आम होने  dark brown .
Propolis is sticky at and  ऊपर रूम तापमान  , .
At lower temperatures  , it becomes  hard and very brittle .
Steven Tyler ( born Steven Victor Tallarico ; March 26 , 1948 ) is an American singer , songwriter , and multi-instrumentalist , best known as the frontman and lead singer of the Boston  -आधारd चट्टान बैंड एरोस्मिथ , in जिससे he भी plays the  harmonica , and occasional piano and percussion .
He is known as the ``  राक्षस of screamin  ' '' due to his high screams and his wide vocal range .
He is also known  लिये उसके on-stage acrobatics  .
During his high-energy performances , he  प्रायः पोशाक in उज्जवल , रंगीन outfits साथ  his trademark scarves hanging from his microphone stand .
In the 1970s , Tyler rose to prominence as the frontman of Aerosmith , which released  ऐसे पड़ाव मुश्किल चट्टान एल्बम  as Toys in the Attic and Rocks .
In the late 1970s and early 1980s , Tyler had a heavy drug and  दारू व्यसन , और the बैंड  's popularity waned .
He  समाप्त ड्रग पुनर्वास in 1986 और subsequently कायम गम्भीरता  for over 20 years , but had a relapse with prescription painkillers in the late 2000s , for which he successfully received treatment in 2009 .
After Aerosmith launched a remarkable comeback in the late 1980s and early 1990s with the albums Permanent  अवकाश , पंप , और मिलेंगी a  Grip , Tyler became a household name and has remained a relevant rock icon .
As a result , he has since embarked on several solo endeavors  सहित अतिथि दिखावे on अन्य कलाकारों ' म्यूज़िक , फिल्मी  and TV roles ( including as a judge on American Idol ) , authoring a bestselling book , and solo work ( including a Top 40 hit single in 2011 ) .
However , he has continued to record  म्यूज़िक और  perform with Aerosmith , after more than 43 years in the band .
The band 's  नवीनतम एल्बम  , Music from Another Dimension !
,  थी released  on November 6 , 2012 .
Tyler is included among Rolling Stones 100 Greatest Singers  .
He was also ranked  3rd on hit parader 's शीर्ष 100 मेटल  Vocalists of All Time .
In 2001 he was inducted into the  चट्टान और फेंकें हॉल of कीर्ति  with Aerosmith , and he was the presenter when AC/DC was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2003 .
In 2013 , Tyler and his songwriting partner Joe Perry will be recipients of the ASCAP Founders  पुरस्कार और होगा भी be inducted into  the Songwriters Hall of Fame .
The  जिगर produces यूरिया in the  urea cycle as a waste product of the digestion of protein .
Normal human adult blood should contain between 7 to 21 mg of urea nitrogen per 100 ml (  7–21 mg/ dl ) of रक्त  .
Individual  laboratories may have अलग सन्दर्भ  ranges , and this is because the procedure may vary .
वेन fontes ( born फ़रवरी 2 , 1940 ) is a पूर्व अमरीकी  football coach and college and professional football player who was the head coach of the NFL 's Detroit Lions from 1988 to 1996 .
His 67 wins and 71 losses are each the  सबसे लिये a सिर कोच in  team history .
The Jews ( ISO 259-3 Israeli pronunciation ) , also known as the Jewish  लोगों , हैं a स्वदेश और an ethnoreligious समूह  , originating in the Israelites or Hebrews of the Ancient Near East .
The Jewish ethnicity , nationality , and religion are  strongly interrelated  , as Judaism is the traditional faith of the Jewish nation .
Converts to Judaism , whose status as Jews within the Jewish ethnos is equal to those  born into it , have  been absorbed into the Jewish people throughout the millennia .
In Jewish tradition , Jewish ancestry is traced to the Biblical patriarchs Abraham , Isaac and Jacob in the second  मिलेनियम bce  .
The modern State of Israel was established as a Jewish nation-state , and  defines itself as ऐसे in इसके मौलिक  Laws .
Its Law of Return grants the right of  नागरिकता to कोई jew जो निवेदन  it .
Israel is the only country  जहाँ यहूदियों हैं a बहुमत  of the population .
Jews also  enjoyed  political autonomy twice before in ancient history .
The first of these periods lasted from 1350 to 586 BCE  , और encompassed the अवधि of the न्यायाधीशों , the संयुक्त साम्राज्य  , and the Divided Monarchy of the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah , ending with the destruction of the First Temple .
The second was the period of the Hasmonean  किंगडम spanning इससे 140  to 37 BCE .
Since the destruction of the  पहला टेम्पल , सबसे यहूदियों have  lived in diaspora .
A minority in  प्रत्येक देश in जिससे वे सजीव ( मगर इसराईल ) , वे have अक्सर अनुभवी  persecution throughout history , resulting in a population that has fluctuated both in numbers and distribution over the centuries .
The world Jewish  जनसांख्यिकी पहुँचे a शिखर of 15 लाख prior to  the Second World War , but six million Jews were killed in the Holocaust .
Since then the population has risen again and , was estimated at 13.4 million by the North American Jewish Data Bank , or  कम than 0.2 % of the कुल संसार जनसांख्यिकी  ( roughly one in every 514 people ) .
According to this report , about 42.5 % of all Jews reside in Israel ( 5.7 million ) , and 39.3 % in  the संयुक्त राज्य ( 5.3 लाख ) , साथ सबसे  of the remainder living in Europe ( 1.5 million ) and Canada ( 0.4 million ) .
These  संख्याएँ शामिल सब those  who consider themselves Jews , whether or not they are affiliated with a Jewish organization .
the कुल संसार यहूदी  population , however , is difficult to measure .
In addition to issues with census methodology , there are halakhic disputes regarding who is a Jew and secular , political , and ancestral  पहचान कारकों कि may affect  the figure considerably .
Corpus  christi बारात  .
Oil  on कैनवास  by Carl Emil Doepler .
Corpus  domini redirects  here .
For other  उपयोग देखिए कॉर्पस  Domini ( disambiguation )
The Feast  of कॉर्पस christi ( लैटिन लिये देह of मसीह  ) , also known as Corpus Domini , is a Latin Rite liturgical solemnity celebrating the tradition and belief in the body and blood of Jesus Christ and his Real Presence in the Eucharist .
It emphasizes the joy of the institution of the Eucharist  , जिससे थी observed on पावन  Thursday in the somber atmosphere of the nearness of Good Friday .
In the present  रोमन missal , the feast  is designated the solemnity of The Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ .
It is also  मनाये in कुछ anglican , लूथरन , और बूढ़ा कैथोलिक  Churches that hold similar beliefs regarding the Real Presence .
The feast is liturgically celebrated on the Thursday after Trinity Sunday or , `` where the Solemnity of the Most Holy Body and Blood of Christ is not a Holy Day of Obligation , it is assigned to the Sunday after the  सबसे पावन  Trinity as its proper day '' .
At the end of Holy Mass , there is  प्रायः a बारात  of the Blessed Sacrament , generally displayed in a monstrance .
The procession is followed by Benediction of  the  Blessed Sacrament .
A notable Eucharistic procession is that presided over  by the पोप प्रत्येक साल in रोम ,  where it begins at the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran and makes its way to the Basilica of Saint Mary Major , where it concludes with Benediction .
C-reactive protein ( CRP ) is a protein found in the blood , the levels of which rise in response to inflammation ( i.e .  c-reactive प्रोटीन is an acute-phase  protein ) .
Its physiological role is to bind to phosphocholine expressed on the surface of dead or dying cells ( and some types of bacteria ) in  अनुक्रम to activate the पूरक प्रणाली via the c1q जटिल  .
सीआरपी is synthesized by the जिगर  in response to factors released by macrophages and fat cells ( adipocytes ) .
It is a member of the pentraxin  परिवार of प्रोटीन  .
It  is नहीं सम्बन्धित  to C-peptide or protein C .
C-reactive protein was the first pattern  मान्यता receptor ( prr ) to  be identified .
The start of the systematic European colonization of the Americas is typically dated to 1492 , when a Spanish  expedition headed by क्रिस्टोफर कोलंबस sailed लिये इण्डिया  to open trade but inadvertently discovered the Americas .
European conquest ,  large-scale खोजी और colonization  soon followed .
Seeing that Europe was preoccupied with many internal wars and was slowly  recovering इससे the अनेक मौतों कि the bubonic प्लेग caused  , the rapid expansion at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 1400s .
The first  रिझाने occurred साथ  the Caribbean coasts on the islands of Hispaniola , Puerto Rico and Cuba , and after 1500 extended into the interiors of both North and South America .
In 1497 , sailing from the  उत्तर on निमित्त of इंग्लैण्ड , जॉन cabot  landed on the North American coast , and a year later , Columbus 's third voyage reached the South American coast .
France founded colonies in much of eastern North America , on a number of  caribbean आइलैंड्स , और in दक्षिण  America .
पुर्तगाल colonized  Brazil .
Eventually , the entire Western Hemisphere came under the control of European  सरकारें , अग्रणी  to profound changes to its landscape , population , and plant and animal life .
In the 19th century alone  over 50 लाख लोगों  left Europe for the Americas .
The post-1492 era is known as the  काल of the columbian  Exchange .
Keith Richards ( born 18 December 1943 ) is an English  संगीतकार , singer-songwriter और संस्थापक सदस्य  of the English rock band the Rolling Stones .
Rolling Stone  पत्रिका  said Richards had created `` rock 's greatest single body of riffs '' , ranking him 4th on its list of 100 best guitarists .
Fourteen songs Richards wrote with the Rolling Stones ' lead vocalist Mick  जैगर हैं सूचीबद्ध among रोलिंग स्टोन पत्रिका 's  `` 500 Greatest Songs of All Time `` .
Richards ' notoriety for illicit drug use stems in part from several drug busts during the late  1960s और 1970s और  his candour regarding his addiction to and eventual abstinence from heroin .
टेस्टोस्टेरोन is a स्टेरॉयड हार्मोन इससे the androgen समूह  and is found in mammals , reptiles , birds , and other vertebrates .
In mammals , testosterone is primarily secreted in the testicles of males and the ovaries of females , although   small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands .
It is the principal male sex hormone and an  anabolic स्टेरॉयड  .
In men , testosterone plays a key role in the development of male reproductive tissues such as the testis and prostate as well as  promoting द्वितीयक यौन विशेषताएँ ऐसे as increased मांसपेशी  , bone mass , and the growth of body hair .
In addition , testosterone   is essential for health and well-being as well as the prevention of osteoporosis .
On average , in adult human males , the plasma concentration of testosterone is about 7–8 times as great as the concentration in adult human females ' plasma , but as the metabolic consumption of testosterone in males  is वृहद , the रोज़ उत्पादन  is about 20 times greater in men .
Females also are  अधिक संवेदनशील  to the hormone .
Testosterone is  observed in सबसे vertebrates  .
Fish make a slightly different form called  11-ketotestosterone  .
Its  बंटवारा in  insects is ecdysone .
ये सर्वव्यापी  steroids suggest that sex hormones have an ancient evolutionary history .
Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when `` natural '' but relatively homogeneous  groupings हैं evident in a सांख्यिकीय  population .
It is often used in  विपणन शोध  .
In this technique , the total population is divided into these groups ( or clusters ) and a  सरल यादृच्छिक नमूना of  the groups is selected .
Then the required information is  एकत्रित इससे a सरल यादृच्छिक  sample of the elements within each selected group .
This may be done for every element in these groups or a subsample of elements  may  be selected within each of these groups .
A common motivation for  क्लस्टर sampling  is to reduce the total number of interviews and costs given the desired accuracy .
Assuming a fixed sample size , the technique gives more  सटीक परिणाम  when most of the variation in the population is within the groups , not between them .
Jamestown is a town in Guilford County ,  उत्तर कैरोलिना , संयुक्त  States , and is a suburb of the nearby cities of Greensboro and High Point .
The population  थी 3,382  at the 2010 census .
Natalie Portman ( born  नताली hershlag ; ; जून 9 , 1981 ) is an अभिनेत्री  and model with dual American and Israeli citizenship .
Her first role was as an orphan taken in  by a हिटमैन in the 1994 कार्रवाई फिल्मी , लकिन मुख्यधारा कामयाबी आए  when she was cast as Padmé Amidala in the Star Wars prequel trilogy ( released in 1999 , 2002 and 2005 ) .
in 1999 , वो नामांकित  at Harvard University to study psychology while still working as an actress .
She  समाप्त उसके  bachelor 's degree in 2003 .
In 2001 , Portman  खोली in नई यॉर्क नगर  's Public Theater production of Anton Chekhov 's The Seagull .
In 2005 , Portman received a  नामांकन  for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress and won the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress - Motion Picture for the drama Closer .
She won a Constellation Award for Best Female Performance and a Saturn  पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन अभिनेत्री लिये उसके अभिनीत  role in V for Vendetta ( 2006 ) .
She played leading roles in the historical dramas Goya 's Ghosts (  2006 ) और the  Other Boleyn Girl ( 2008 ) .
In May 2008 , she served as the youngest member of  the 61st सालाना  Cannes Film Festival jury .
Portman 's directorial debut , Eve , opened the 65th Venice International Film  पर्व 's शॉर्ट्स प्रतियोगिता  in 2008 .
Portman directed a segment of the collective film  नई यॉर्क , i प्रेम  You .
In 2011 , Portman won the Academy Award , the Golden Globe Award , the BAFTA Award , the Screen Actors Guild Award , and the Independent  स्पिरिट पुरस्कार लिये उसके सीसे प्रदर्शन as नीना sayers in ब्लैक  Swan .
Copper is a chemical element with the symbol Cu ( from )  और परमाणु  number 29 .
It is a ductile metal with very high  थर्मल और विद्युत चालकता  .
Pure  तांबे is नरम और malleable ;  a freshly exposed surface has a reddish-orange color .
It is used as a conductor  of ऊष्मा और विद्युत  , a building material , and a constituent of various metal alloys .
The metal  और इसके alloys have महरूम  used for thousands of years .
In the Roman era , copper was principally mined on Cyprus , hence the origin of the  नाम of the मेटल as сyprium ( मेटल of साइप्रस )  , later shortened to сuprum .
Its compounds are commonly encountered as copper (  ii ) लवण , जिससे प्रायः impart ब्लू or ग्रीन  colors to minerals such as azurite and turquoise and have been widely used historically as pigments .
Architectural structures built with copper  corrode to दे ग्रीन  verdigris ( or patina ) .
सजावटी आर्ट prominently सुविधाएँ  copper , both by itself and as part of pigments .
Copper is essential to all  जीना जीवों as a ट्रेस dietary  mineral because it is a key constituent of the respiratory enzyme complex cytochrome c oxidase .
In molluscs  और crustacea तांबे is a constituent  of the blood pigment hemocyanin , which is replaced by the iron-complexed hemoglobin in fish and other vertebrates .
The main  क्षेत्रों जहाँ  copper is found in vertebrates are liver , muscle and bone .
In sufficient concentration , copper compounds are  जहरीला to उच्चतर जीवों  and are used as bacteriostatic substances , fungicides , and wood preservatives .
The major  पेशेवर खेल लीग , or बस  major leagues , in the United States and Canada are the highest professional competitions of team sports in the two countries .
Although individual sports such as  गोल्फ़ , टेनिस , और स्वचालित रेसिंग  are also very popular , the term is usually limited to team sports .
The term `` major league '' was first used in 1921 in reference to Major League Baseball ( MLB ) , the top level of  पेशेवर अमरीकी  baseball .
Today , the major northern North America professional team sports leagues are Major League Baseball ( MLB ) , the National  बास्केट संघ ( एनबीए  ) , the National Football League ( NFL ) , and the National Hockey League ( NHL ) .
Other notable leagues include Major League Soccer ( MLS ) , the Canadian Football League ( CFL ) , the Arena Football League , Major  लीग lacrosse , the नेशनल lacrosse लीग और the महिलाओं  's National Basketball Association .
The  एनएफएल , एमएलबी , एनबीए , और एनएचएल  are commonly referred to as the Big Four .
Each of these is the richest professional club  प्रतियोगिता in इसके खेल  worldwide .
The  बेहतरीन खिलाड़ी can become सांस्कृतिक प्रतीक in दोनो देशों  and elsewhere in the world , because the leagues enjoy a significant place in popular culture in the US and Canada .
the एनएफएल रै  32 teams , and the others have 30 each .
The vast majority of  प्रमुख लीग टीमों हैं concentrated  in the most populous metropolitan areas of the United States .
Baseball , football , hockey , and soccer have had professional leagues for over  100 सालो ; जल्दी लीग ऐसे as the नेशनल संघ , ओहियो लीग , और नेशनल  Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern MLB , NFL and NHL respectively .
Soccer was first professionalized in 1894 , but leagues suffered greatly from lack of  स्थिरता और seldom lasted अधिक than  a decade .
Soccer 's greatest successes were in the form of  the अमरीकी सॉकर लीग ( 1921-1933 ) , the असली  North American Soccer League ( 1968-1984 ) , the National Professional Soccer League ( 1984-2001 ) and , currently , Major League Soccer ( 1996-present ) .
Basketball is a relatively new development ; the NBA evolved from the National Basketball League and its  splinter समूह the बास्केट  Association of America , taking on its current form in 1949 .
Every major league averages 15,000 fans in  उपस्थिति प्रति खेल or  higher as of 2011 .
मध्याह्न ऊँचाई is an खगोलीय  navigation method of calculating an observer 's latitude .
Earned value management ( EVM ) , or Earned value project/performance  प्रबन्धन ( evpm ) is a प्रोजेक्ट प्रबन्धन  technique for measuring project performance and progress in an objective manner .
Because  evm रै the क्षमता  to combine measurements of :
पैमाना
अनुसूची
and  cost,
in a single integrated system , Earned Value Management is able to  provide सटीक forecasts of प्रोजेक्ट प्रदर्शन समस्याएं  , which is an important contribution for project management .
Early EVM research showed that the areas of  नियोजन और कंट्रोल हैं significantly impacted by इसके उपयोग ; और  similarly , using the methodology improves both scope definition as well as the analysis of overall project performance .
More recent research studies have shown that the principles of EVM  हैं धनात्मक predictors of प्रोजेक्ट  success .
Popularity of EVM  रै grown significantly in हाल सालो परे  government contracting , in which sector its importance continues to rise ( e.g. , recent new DFAR rules ) , in part because EVM can also surface in and help substantiate contract disputes .
रंगीन वसन्त  garden flowers
Spring is one  of the चार conventional  temperate seasons , following winter and preceding summer .
There are various technical  परिभाषाएं of वसन्त , लकिन लोकल उपयोग of the पद  varies according to local climate , cultures and customs .
When it is spring in the northern hemisphere  , it होगा  be autumn in the southern hemisphere .
At the  वसन्त विषुव , दिनों हैं बंद to 12 घंटों long साथ  day length increasing as the season progresses .
Spring and ``  springtime '' refer to the ऋतु , और भी to विचार of rebirth , कायाकल्प  , renewal , resurrection , and regrowth , with festivals such as Carnival , Easter and Holi being celebrated at this time .
Jamestown was a settlement in the Colony of  वर्जिनिया , the पहला स्थाई  English settlement in the Americas .
Established by the Virginia Company of London as `` James Fort '' on May 14 , 1607 (  o.s . , may 24 , 1607 n.s . ) ,  it followed several earlier failed attempts , including the Lost Colony of Roanoke .
Jamestown served as the capital of the colony for 83  सालो , इससे 1616 जबतक  1699 .
The settlement was located within the territory of a  राजनैतिक एंटिटी ज्ञात as  Tsenacommacah , the state of the Powhatan Confederacy , with around 14,000 native inhabitants , and specifically was in part of the subdivision known as the Paspahegh tribe .
The natives initially welcomed the colonists with dancing , feasting and tobacco ceremonies , and they provided crucial provisions and support for the survival of the colonists , who were not agriculturally inclined , although relations with the newcomers also  soured fairly जल्दी on , अग्रणी to the कुल annihilation  of the Paspahegh in warfare within 3 years .
भीतर a साल of jamestown 's  founding , the Virginia Company brought Polish and Dutch colonists to help improve the settlement .
In 1619 , the first documented Africans were brought to  jamestown , हालांकि the आधुनिक  conception of slavery in the future United States did not begin in Virginia until 1660 .
When the  उपनिवेश थी subdivided into the असली  eight shires of Virginia in 1634 , the town became located in the eponymous James City Shire .
The London Company 's second settlement , Bermuda , claims to be the site of the oldest town in the English New World , as St. George 's , Bermuda was officially established ( as  नई लंदन ) in 1612 , whereas जेम्स फोर्ट , in वर्जिनिया , थी  not to be converted into James towne until 1619 , and further did not survive into the present day .
In 1699 , the capital was relocated from Jamestown to what is today Williamsburg , after which Jamestown ceased to exist as a  उपनिवेश  , existing today only as an archaeological site .
Today , Jamestown is one of  तीन स्थितियाँ comprising the ऐतिहासिक त्रिभुज of औपनिवेशिक वर्जिनिया , साथ  with Williamsburg and Yorktown , with two primary heritage sites .
ऐतिहासिक jamestowne , the पुरातत्व साईट on jamestown द्वीप  , is a cooperative effort by Jamestown National Historic Site ( part of Colonial National Historical Park ) , and Preservation Virginia .
The Jamestown Settlement , a living history interpretive site ,  is संचालित by the jamestown yorktown न्यास  in conjunction with the Commonwealth of Virginia .
James Christopher Frey ( born September 12 , 1969 ) is an  अमरीकी  writer .
His books A Million Little  टुकड़े ( 2003 ) और my dost लियोनार्ड  ( 2005 ) , as well as Bright Shiny Morning ( 2008 ) , were bestsellers .
He was  the विषय of a कांड जब जांचकर्ताओं खोजा कि थाना समय और  the extent of certain injuries were exaggerated in A Million Little Pieces , a purportedly autobiographical account of the author 's struggle with addiction .
Deere & Company , most commonly known by its name John Deere , is an  अमरीकी निगम आधारित in moline , इलिनोइस ,  and one of the largest manufacturers of agricultural machinery in the world .
in 2012 , it  was listed as 97th in the Fortune 500 America 's ranking and 190th in the Fortune 500 Global ranking .
Deere and Company agricultural products , sold under the John Deere name , include tractors , combine harvesters , cotton harvesters , balers  ,  planters / seeders , sprayers , and UTVs .
The company is also a manufacturer of construction equipment and forestry equipment , as well as a supplier of diesel engines and drivetrains ( axles , transmissions ,  gearboxes ) प्रयुक्त in भारी उपकरण  .
Additionally , John Deere manufactures equipment used  in लॉन , grounds , और turf  care , such as walk-behind lawn mowers , zero-turn lawn mowers , lawn tractors , and snowthrowers .
To support  the कोर व्यवसायों  , John Deere also provides financial services and other related activities .
The company 's slogan is `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' and has a picture of a leaping deer as  a लोगो , a शब्द खेल pun on `` nothing रनों  like a deer '' .
Carl Westby coined the phrase `` Nothing Runs Like a Deere '' for a marketing  अभियान to बेचें snowmobiles  .
The company 's  उत्पाद हैं भी identifiable by इसके  distinctive shade of green paint , usually augmented by yellow trim .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a  denomination of संयुक्त राज्य करेंसी  .
The first U.S. Secretary  of the राजकोष ( 1789–95 ) , सिकंदर  Hamilton , is currently featured on the obverse of the bill , while the U.S. Treasury Building is featured on the reverse .
(  हैमिल्टन is एक of दो  non-presidents featured on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other  is बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन  , on the $ 100 bill .
Hamilton is one of only four people  प्रदर्शित on u.S. पेपर करेंसी ( 1861 to  the present ) who was not born in the continental United States , as he was from the West Indies .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63  विधिक टेंडर ) ; जार्ज meade , स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष नोट ) ; और रॉबर्ट मॉरिस , इंग्लैण्ड ( $ 1,000  1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In  जोड , kamehameha  I , appears on the 2008 Hawaii state quarter . )
All $ 10 bills issued today are  संघीय  Reserve Notes .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the average life of a $ 10 bill in  परिसंचरण is 18 महीने पहले it is replaced  due to wear .
लगभग  6 % of all US banknotes printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar bills  हैं वितरित by संघीय  Reserve Banks in yellow straps .
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John Trumbull ’s  1805 पोर्ट्रेट of  Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency  in परिसंचरण in जिससे the पोर्ट्रेट चेहरों to the बाएँ ( the $ 100,000 विधेयक  featured a portrait of Woodrow Wilson facing to the left , but was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
Andy Samuel Griffith ( June 1 , 1926 – July 3 , 2012 ) was an American actor ,  टेलीविज़न निर्माता , ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning  Southern-gospel singer , and writer .
He  थी a टोनी पुरस्कार nominee लिये दो भूमिकाएँ , और gained prominence  in the starring role in director Elia Kazan 's film A Face in the Crowd ( 1957 ) before he became better known for his television roles , playing the lead characters in the 1960–1968 situation comedy The Andy Griffith Show and in the 1986–1995 legal drama Matlock .
Theresa Penelope `` Terri '' Irwin , ( née Raines ; born July 20 ,  1964 ) is an ऑस्ट्रेलियाई -आधारd  , American -born naturalist , author , the widow of Australian naturalist Steve Irwin and owner of Australia Zoo at Beerwah , Queensland , Australia .
She co-starred with her husband on The Crocodile Hunter , their unconventional television nature documentary series along with its spin-off series , Croc Files  और the  Crocodile Hunter Diaries .
She has lived in Australia since 1992 ,  जब वो शादीशुदा स्टीव इरविन  .
Andreas Cellarius 's illustration of the Copernican system , from the  harmonia macrocosmica  ( 1660 ) .
Heliocentrism , or heliocentricism  , is the खगोलीय मॉडल in जिससे  the Earth and planets revolve around a relatively stationary Sun at the center of the Solar System .
The word comes from the Greek ( helios `` sun ''  और kentron ``  center '' ) .
Historically , heliocentrism was opposed to geocentrism ,  जिससे लगाई the धरती at  the center .
The notion that the Earth revolves around  the सूर्य था महरूम प्रस्तावित as जल्दी as the 3rd सदी bc by aristarchus  of Samos , but Aristarchus 's heliocentrism attracted little attention until Copernicus revived and elaborated it .
Lucio Russo , however , argues that this is  a भ्रामक छाप resulting  from the loss of scientific works of the Hellenistic Era .
Using indirect evidence he argues that a heliocentric view was  expounded in हिप्पारकस 's  work on gravity .
It was not until the 16th  सदी कि a fully predictive गणितीय  model of a heliocentric system was presented , by the Renaissance mathematician , astronomer , and Catholic cleric Nicolaus Copernicus of Poland , leading to the Copernican Revolution .
In the following  सदी , योहानेस कॅप्लर elaborated  upon and expanded this model to include elliptical orbits , and supporting observations made using a telescope were presented by Galileo Galilei .
साथ the observations of विलियम हर्शेल , फ्रेडरिक bessel , और अन्य  , astronomers realized that the sun was not the center of the universe and by the 1920s Edwin Hubble had shown that it was part of a galaxy ( the Milky Way ) that was only one of many billions .
Norah Jones ( born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar ; March 30 , 1979 ) is  an अमरीकी singer-songwriter , pianist  , and actress .
She is the  बेटी of भारतीय सितार  player Ravi Shankar and Sue Jones .
वो is भी anoushka  Shankar 's half-sister .
In 2002 , she launched her solo music career with the release of the  commercially कामयाब और critically  acclaimed album Come Away with Me , a fusion of country music and pop with elements of jazz which was certified diamond album , selling over 26 million copies .
The record earned Jones  पाँच ग्रैमी पुरस्कार , सहित the एल्बम of the  Year , Record of the Year , and Best New Artist .
Her subsequent studio albums , Feels Like Home , released in 2004 , Not Too Late , released in 2007 , the same year she made her film debut in My Blueberry Nights , and her 2009 release The Fall  सब gained प्लेटिनम औकात , selling over a लाख  copies and were generally well received by critics .
जोन्स ' पांचवां स्टुडियो एल्बम  , Little Broken Hearts , was released on April 27 , 2012 .
Jones has won nine Grammy Awards and was 60th on Billboard magazine 's  कलाकारों of the 2000–2009 दशक  chart .
throughout उसके करियर , जोन्स  has won numerous awards and has sold more than 50 million albums worldwide .
Billboard named her the top jazz artist  of the 2000–2009 दशक  .
नहीं to be  confused with Dimension of a physical quantity .
For other uses , see Dimension (  बहुविकल्पी  ) .
From left to right , the square , the cube , and  the tesseract  .
The  वर्गाकार is bounded  by 1-dimensional lines , the cube by 2-dimensional areas , and the tesseract by 3-dimensional volumes .
A projection of the cube is given since it is  viewed  on a two-dimensional screen .
The  वही applies to the tesseract  , which additionally can only be shown as a projection even in three-dimensional space .
A  आरेख प्रर्दशित  the first four spatial dimensions .
In physics and mathematics , the dimension of a space or object is informally defined as the minimum  क्रमांक of निर्देशांक needed  to specify any point within it .
Thus a line has a dimension of one because only one  निर्देशांक is needed to बताएँ a पाइंट on it ( लिये उदाहरण  , the point at 5 on a number line ) .
A surface such as a plane or the surface of a cylinder or sphere has a dimension of two because two coordinates are needed to specify a point on it ( for example , to locate a point on the surface  of a गोला तुम need दोनो इसके अक्षांश और इसके  longitude ) .
The  अंदर of a घन , a बेलन or a गोला is  three-dimensional because three coordinates are needed to locate a point within these spaces .
In physical terms , dimension refers to the constituent structure of all space ( volume ) and its position  in समय ( आभास as a अदिश आयाम साथ the t-axis ) , as खूब as the  spatial constitution of objects within—structures that correlate with both particle and field conceptions , interact according to relative properties of mass —and are fundamentally mathematical in description .
These , or other  अक्ष , may be संदर्भित to uniquely पहचानो a पाइंट  or structure in its attitude and relationship to other objects and occurrences .
Physical theories that incorporate time , such as general relativity , are said to work  in 4-dimensional `` spacetime `` , (  defined as a Minkowski space ) .
Modern theories tend to be `` higher-dimensional '' including quantum field and  स्ट्रिंग theories  .
The state-space  of क्वांटम यांत्रिकी  is an infinite-dimensional function space .
The concept  of आयाम is नहीं प्रतिबंधित  to physical objects .
High-dimensional spaces occur in mathematics and the sciences for many reasons , frequently as configuration spaces such as  in लाग्रांजीय or हेमिल्टोनीय यांत्रिकी ; ये हैं अमूर्त स्पेसेस  , independent of the physical space we live in .
Fontana ( ) is a city of 200,762 residents in  सैन bernardino काउंटी  , California .
संस्थापित in 1913 , it remained  essentially rural until World War II , when entrepreneur Henry J. Kaiser built a large steel mill in the area .
It is now a regional hub of the trucking industry , with Interstate 10 and State Route 210 transecting the city from east to west  , और अंतरराज्यीय 15 गुजर diagonally through इसके  northwestern quadrant .
It is home to the largest of the San Bernardino County system libraries , a renovated historic theater , a municipal park , and the Auto Club Speedway on the  साईट of the कैसर स्टील मिल  .
Fontana also hosts  the fontana दिनों हाफ  Marathon and 5K run .
This race is the  तीव्रतम  half-marathon course in the world .
The U.S. 2012 Census reported that Fontana 's  जनसांख्यिकी थी 200,762 in 2012 , बनाना it the  second most populous city in San Bernardino county county and 14th in the state .
Cowboys  स्टेडियम is a स्टेडियम  with a retractable roof in Arlington , Texas .
It serves as the home of the National Football  लीग  's Dallas Cowboys .
It replaced the partially covered Texas Stadium , which opened in 1971 , and served as  the cowboys ' घर through the 2008 ऋतु  .
It was completed on May  27 , 2009  .
The stadium  सीटे 85,000 , बनाना it  the third largest stadium in the NFL by seating capacity .
The maximum capacity of the stadium ,  सहित खड़ा रूम , is 105,000  .
The Party Pass ( open areas ) sections are behind seats in each end zone and on a series of six  elevated प्लेटफ़ॉर्म  connected by stairways .
It has the world 's largest column-free interior and the fourth largest high  परिभाषा वीडियो स्क्रीन , जिससे hangs इससे  20 yard line to 20 yard line .
The facility can also be used for a variety of other activities outside of its main purpose ( professional football ) such as concerts , basketball  खेल , मुक्केबाज़ी मिलान , कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल और  high school football contests , soccer matches , and motocross races .
Canadian historians until the 1980s  tended to फ़ोकस on आर्थिक  history , including labour history .
In part this is because Canada has had far fewer  राजनैतिक or  military conflicts than other societies .
This was especially true in  the पहला हाफ of the बीसवीं सदी जब  economic history was overwhelmingly dominant .
Many of the most prominent English Canadian historians from this period were economic historians , such as  हेरोल्ड innis , डोनाल्ड creighton और आर्थर  R. M. Lower
Scholars of Canadian history were heirs to the traditions that developed  in यूरोपीय और the संयुक्त राज्य , लकिन frameworks  that worked well elsewhere often failed in Canada .
The heavily Marxist influenced economic history that dominates Europe has little  प्रासंगिकता to सबसे of कनाडाई  history .
A focus on class , urban areas , and industry fails to address Canada 's  ग्रामीण और संसाधन आधारित अर्थव्यवस्था  .
similarly  , the monetarist school that is dominant in the United States also has been difficult to transfer north of the border .
The study of economic history in Canada became highly focused on economic geography , and for  अनेक सालो the प्रबल स्कूल of विचार रै महरूम  the staples thesis .
This school of thought bases the study of the Canadian  अर्थव्यवस्था on the पढ़ाई of प्राकृतिक संसाधन  .
This approach has since  भी become प्रयुक्त बाहर of कनाडा  in Australia and in many developing nations .
Before  the आगमन of europeans , the पहला राष्ट्र  of what would become Canada had a large and vibrant trade network .
Furs , tools , decorative items ,  और अन्य goods यहूद प्रायः transported  thousands of kilometres , mostly by canoe throughout the many rivers and lakes of the region .
The early European history of the Canadian economy is  प्रायः पढ़ाई through the स्टेपल्स  thesis which argues the Canadian economy developed through the exploitation of a series of staples that would be exported to Europe .
Carbon-14 , 14C , or  radiocarbon , is a रेडियोसक्रिय समस्थानिक  of carbon with a nucleus containing 6 protons and 8 neutrons .
Its presence in organic materials is the basis of the radiocarbon dating method  pioneered by willard लिब्बी और सहयोगियों  ( 1949 ) to date archaeological , geological and hydrogeological samples .
carbon-14 थी खोजा on 27 फ़रवरी 1940 , by मार्टिन कामेन और sam रूबेन at the  University of California Radiation Laboratory in Berkeley , although its existence had been suggested by Franz Kurie in 1934 .
There are three naturally occurring isotopes of carbon on Earth :  99 % of the कार्बन is carbon-12 , 1 % is carbon-13 , और carbon-14 occurs in ट्रेस amounts , i.e. , बनाना up परिचय  1 part per trillion ( 0.0000000001 % ) of the carbon in the atmosphere .
The half-life of  carbon-14  is 5,730±40 years .
carbon-14 decays into  nitrogen-14 through beta decay .
The primary natural source of carbon-14 on Earth is cosmic ray action upon nitrogen in the atmosphere , and it is therefore a cosmogenic nuclide   .
However , open-air nuclear testing between 1955–1980  contributed to  this pool .
the अलग  isotopes of carbon do not differ appreciably in their chemical properties .
This is used in chemical and biological research , in a technique called carbon labeling :  carbon-14 अणु can be प्रयुक्त to बदलें nonradioactive कार्बन , in  order to trace chemical and biochemical reactions involving carbon atoms from any given organic compound .
Lightning is a highly visible form  of उर्जा  transfer
Lightning strikes are electrical discharges on a massive  स्केल between the माहौल और an earth-bound  object .
They mostly originate in thunderclouds and terminate on the ground ,  पुकारा  Cloud to Ground ( CG ) lightning .
However , they may also be initiated from  a बहुत लम्बा grounded  object and reach into the clouds .
Although `` a lightning strike '' is commonly used to describe all lightning , it is rather erroneous and a misnomer , as only about 25 % of all lightning events worldwide are CG , the large bulk  of बिजली कार्यक्रम हैं intracloud  ( IC ) or Cloud to Cloud ( CC ) , where discharge only occurs high in the atmosphere .
The scientific name for the complete process of a single lightning event is a and it is a very complex , multiple stepped interaction ,  जिससे is नहीं completely समझा  .
Most CG flashes only `` strike ''  एक शारीरिक स्थान  , referred to as a termination .
The primary conducting  चैनल , the उज्जवल  coursing light you may see and call a `` strike '' , is only about 1 inch in diameter , although to our eyes it looks much larger .
They are miles  long ,  upwards of tens of miles .
And the entire flash , lasts only a few fractions of a  दूसरी , सबसे of जिससे is नहीं दृश्य  to human eyes .
Thunder is always  उत्पादित by  lightning .
Just like lightning , that deceives our eyes ,  प्रायः looking larger or करीब than it वाकई is , the धरती 's माहौल और हमारी  brain 's perception of the outside world , ultimately determines whether it is `` heard '' or not .
Lightning can not  happen in a वैक्यूम विहीन of ions ,  nor can thunder occur without molecules to vibrate .
Thunder is a physical absolute for  प्रत्येक सिंगल  flash of lightning .
Contrary to popular belief , a lightning strike itself is usually not responsible for multiple deaths or injuries from a  सिंगल इवेंट  .
It would be impossible given the natural tendencies of  a फ्लैश , जबतक लोगों or पशु यहूद stacked on शीर्ष of प्रत्येक अन्य , or वे यहूद  somehow arranged vertically and part of the flash channel .
When lightning ignites an available fuel source and an explosion occurs , it is the shock wave or fire  causing the चोटों , नहीं the स्ट्राइक itself  .
Ground Currents , also called step potential , of an earth  termination  is what truly causes most injuries or death to humans and animals .
The near instantaneous rush of surface charges , induced by the overhead thundercloud itself , race to the strike point  इससे सैंकड़ों to हज़ारों of फीट दूर दौरान  discharge .
This current , caused during each  स्ट्रोक , takes the पाथ  of least resistance , which may be ion rich human or animal legs , over poorly conducting earth .
This is why it is best  to crouch , साथ  feet close together , if ever caught in the open during a thunderstorm .
Unfortunately , most reports do not draw a  भेद between the रियल कारण of चोट or मौत , be  it the strike itself , a resulting explosion or fire , or usually responsible step potential .
Peter F.  kilmartin ( born 1962  ) is the current Attorney General of Rhode Island .
Kilmartin is also a retired police captain and a  पूर्व सदस्य of the rhode द्वीप हाउस  of Representatives .
A couple following their  विवाह in the manti  Utah Temple .
Sealing is an  अध्यादेश ( अनुष्ठान ) performed in latter दिन संतो मंदिरों  by a person holding the sealing authority .
The purpose of this ordinance is to seal familiar relationships , making possible the  अस्तित्व of परिवार संबंध throughout  eternity .
LDS teachings place  ग्रेट महत्व on the विशिष्ट  authority required to perform these sealings .
गिरिजाघर doctrine  teaches that this authority , called the Priesthood , corresponds to that given to Saint Peter in .
sealings हैं typically  performed as marriages or as sealing of children to parents .
They were performed prior to the death of Joseph Smith , Jr. ( the main founder of the Latter Day Saint movement  ) , और हैं फिलहाल  performed in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints .
हालांकि कुछ अन्य denominations , ऐसे as the जातियाँ of मसीह  , view sealing as an artifact of Smith 's practice of plural marriage , some do still perform them .
The 2000s , pronounced `` two thousands '' , was a  दशक कि began on जनवरी  1 , 2000 , and ended on December 31 , 2009 .
Globalization , which had accelerated after the  जल्दी 1990s पतन of साम्यवादी  , continued to be a force in the 2000s .
The growth of the Internet was one of the prime contributors to globalization during the  दशक , बनाना it संभावित लिये लोगों to interact साथ अन्य लोगों , एक्स्प्रेस  ideas , introduce others to different cultures and backgrounds , use goods and services , sell and buy online , research and learn about things , along with experiencing the world without having to leave home .
The institutions ,  linkages और technologies कि उभरा or यहूद redefined  earlier would subsequently in this decade benefit many countries , in particular China and India .
however , in अन्य भाग of the संसार ऐसे  progress failed to address ongoing struggles with modernity , most notably characterized by the rise of al-Qaeda and other Islamist groups .
The September 11 attacks in 2001 led to the United States , United Kingdom , Spain , Canada and other nations invading  अफगानिस्तान , as खूब as implementing विभिन्न anti-terrorist उपायों at घर और विदेश in कया थी ज्ञात  as the War on Terror .
the यूरोपीय संघ  saw further integration and expansion throughout much of Europe .
The economic growth of the 2000s had considerable environmental consequences , raised demand for  घटाते उर्जा संसाधन , और थी  still shown to be vulnerable as demonstrated during the Global Financial Crisis of the late 2000s .
The Gunfight at the O.K . Corral was a  gunfight कि took प्लेस  at about 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday , October 26 , 1881 , in Tombstone , Arizona Territory , and is generally regarded as the most famous gunfight in the history of the American Old West .
The gunfight , believed to have lasted only about thirty  सेकेंड , थी लड़ा between the गैरकानूनी cowboys बिली claiborne , आइक और बिली clanton , और tom और फ़्रैंक mclaury , और the opposing  town Marshal Virgil Earp and his brothers Assistant Town Marshal Morgan and temporary lawman Wyatt , aided by Doc Holliday designated as a temporary marshal by Virgil .
Ike Clanton and Billy Claiborne ran from the fight unharmed , but Ike 's brother Billy Clanton was   killed , along with both McLaurys .
Lawmen Virgil and  मॉर्गन earp  and Doc Holliday were wounded .
Only  व्याट earp आए through  the fight unharmed .
The fight has come to represent a time in American  इतिहास जब the frontier थी खोलें दायरा लिये outlaws opposed  by law enforcement that was spread thin over vast territories , leaving some areas unprotected .
The gunfight was not well known to the American public until 1931 when author Stuart Lake published what  रै चूंकि महरूम संकल्पित to be a largely  fictionalized biography , Wyatt Earp : Frontier Marshal , two years after Earp 's death .
झील retold उसके स्टोरी  in a 1946 book that director John Ford developed into the movie My Darling Clementine .
After the movie Gunfight at  the o.k . corral थी released  in 1957 , the shootout came to be known by that name .
Since then , the conflict has been portrayed with  varying डिग्री of सटीकता  in numerous Western films and books .
Despite its name , the gunfight actually occurred in a narrow lot  छह द्वार वेस्ट of the पश्च प्रवेश to the o.k  . Corral on Fremont Street , and also in the street .
The two opposing  पार्टियों यहूद initially तभी  about apart .
About thirty shots  यहूद fired in तीस  seconds .
Ike Clanton filed murder charges against  the earps और दस्तावेज़ हॉलिडे लकिन  they were eventually exonerated by a local judge after a 30-day preliminary hearing and then again by a local grand jury .
On December  28 , 1881 , वर्जिल earp  was maimed in an assassination attempt by the outlaw Cowboys , and on March 18 , 1882 , they assassinated Morgan Earp .
The suspects furnished solid alibis , and newly appointed Deputy U.S . Marshal Wyatt Earp took matters into his own hands during the Earp  वेंडेट्टा सवारी , ironically धड़ा by काउंटी शेरिफ  Johnny Behan with warrants for the Earp 's arrest .
HDMI ( High-Definition Multimedia  इंटरफ़ेस ) is a कॉम्पैक्ट audio/video इंटरफ़ेस लिये transferring uncompressed  video data and compressed/uncompressed digital audio data from a HDMI-compliant device ( `` the source device '' ) to a compatible computer monitor , video projector , digital television , or digital audio device .
HDMI is a digital  बदलना लिये मौजूदा  analog video standards .
There are a number of  hdmi-standard केबल कनेक्टर्स उपलब्धियाँ , प्रत्येक of जिससे can be प्रयुक्त लिये कोई  uncompressed TV or PC video format , including standard , enhanced , high definition , and 3D video signals ; up to 8 channels of compressed or uncompressed digital audio ; a CEC ( Consumer Electronics Control ) connection ; and an Ethernet data connection .
HDMI implements the EIA/CEA-861  मानकों , जिससे define  video formats and waveforms , transport of compressed , uncompressed , and LPCM audio , auxiliary data , and implementations of the VESA EDID .
The CEC allows HDMI devices to control each other when necessary  और allows the  user to operate multiple devices with one remote control handset .
Because HDMI is electrically compatible with the CEA-861 signals used by digital visual interface ( DVI ) , no  सिग्नल परिवर्तन is जरुरी , nor is वहीँ a  loss of video quality when a DVI-to-HDMI adapter is used .
As an uncompressed CEA-861 connection , HDMI is independent of the various digital  टेलीविज़न मानकों प्रयुक्त by व्यक्तिगत डिवाइस , ऐसे as atsc और dvb , as ये हैं encapsulations of संपीडित एमपीईजी  video streams ( which can be decoded and output as an uncompressed video stream on HDMI ) .
Production of consumer HDMI products  प्रारंभ in लेट  2003 .
In Europe either DVI-HDCP or HDMI is included in  the hd तैयार in-store labeling specification लिये tv सेट  for HDTV , formulated by EICTA with SES Astra in 2005 .
HDMI began to appear on  उपभोक्ता hdtv  camcorders and digital still cameras in 2006 .
As of January 8 , 2013 , which is  टेन सालो बाद the रिलीज of the पहला  HDMI specification , over 3 billion HDMI devices have shipped since the launch of the HDMI standard .
Bree Van de  kamp ( née मेसन ; भी ज्ञात in the श्रेणी as ब्री होज  and Bree Weston ) is a fictional character and one of the four protagonists on the ABC television series Desperate Housewives .
She is played by actress Marcia Cross , who has received multiple awards and  nominations लिये उसके portrayal , सहित an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन , तीन सुनहरी  Globe Award nominations , and two Screen Actors Guild Awards .
Cross 's portrayal of Bree has been widely  praised by आलोचकों और  fans .
Cross originally auditioned for the role of  मरियम ऐलिस यंग , लकिन श्रेणी निर्माता मार्क  Cherry thought she was better suited for the role of Bree .
Dana Delany , who eventually was cast as Katherine Mayfair , was originally  चुनी लिये the भूमिका लकिन turned it bas , saying  it was too similar to her role in Pasadena .
Bree 's main struggle  throughout the श्रेणी रै महरूम उसके  attempts to maintain a perfect life despite various obstacles such as widowhood , divorce , and alcoholism hindering her .
She has been married three  टाइम्स ; to रेक्स वैन de kamp  ( Steven Culp ) , Orson Hodge ( Kyle MacLachlan ) and Trip Weston ( Scott Bakula ) .
See also the Town of Algoma in  winnebago काउंटी , विस्कॉन्सिन  .
See also  algoma  ( Disambiguation ) .
algoma is a नगर in kewaunee  County in the U.S. state of Wisconsin .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी 3,167  at the 2010 census .
Algoma is part of the Green Bay Metropolitan  सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल  .
The Hangover Part II is a 2011 American  कॉमेडी फिल्मी उत्पादित by legendary  Pictures and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures .
It is the sequel to 2009 's The Hangover and the  दूसरी फिल्मी in the hangover मताधिकार  .
Todd Phillips directed the film in addition to  co-authoring the स्क्रिप्ट साथ क्रेग mazin ,  and Scot Armstrong .
The film stars Bradley Cooper , Ed Helms ,  zach galifianakis , केन jeong , जेफरी  Tambor , Justin Bartha and Paul Giamatti .
The  hangover भाग ii  tells the story of Phil , Stu , Alan , and Doug as they travel to Thailand for Stu 's wedding .
After the bachelor party in Las  वेगास , stu takes no संभावना  and opts for a safe , subdued pre-wedding brunch .
However , things do not go as planned , resulting in  another ख़राब hangover साथ no यादें  of the previous night .
Development of The Hangover Part II began in April 2009 , two months before The  hangover थी released  .
The principal actors were cast in March  2010 to reprise उनके  roles from the first film .
Production began in October 2010 , in Ontario  , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  , before moving on location in Thailand .
The  फिल्मी  was released on May 26 , 2011 and , despite receiving mostly negative reviews from critics , it became the highest-grossing R-rated comedy during its theatrical run .
A third film is  नियत लिये on may  24 , 2013 .
Young Man Among Roses , portrait  miniature by निकोलस hilliard , 1588  , V & A .
Believed to be the Earl  of एसेक्स
The Ditchley Portrait of Elizabeth I by the foreign  मार्कस gheeraerts the  Younger , c.1592
The English Renaissance was a cultural and artistic  गति in इंग्लैण्ड डेटिंग इससे the लेट  15th and early 16th centuries to the early 17th century .
It is associated with the pan-European  पुनर्जागरण कि is प्रायः regarded as शुरूआत in  Italy in the late 14th century .
Like most of northern Europe ,  इंग्लैण्ड देखी छोटी of ये developments  until more than a century later .
The beginning of the English Renaissance is often taken , as a convenience ,  to be 1485 , जब the बैटल of bosworth  Field ended the Wars of the Roses and inaugurated the Tudor Dynasty .
Renaissance style and ideas ,  however , यहूद slow in penetrating इंग्लैण्ड  , and the Elizabethan era in the second half of the 16th century is usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance .
एलिज़ाबेथ ऐन bloomer वारेन `` बेट्टी '' घाट ( अप्रैल 8  , 1918 – July 8 , 2011 ) , was First Lady of the United States from 1974 to 1977 during the presidency of her husband Gerald Ford .
As First Lady , she was active in social policy  और निर्मित precedents  as a politically active presidential wife .
Throughout her husband 's term in office , she maintained high approval ratings despite opposition from  कुछ रूढ़िवादी republicans  who objected to her more moderate and liberal positions on social issues .
Ford was noted for raising breast cancer awareness following her 1974  mastectomy  and was a passionate supporter of , and activist for , the Equal Rights Amendment ( ERA ) .
Pro-choice on abortion and a leader in the Women 's Movement  , वो gained कीर्ति as एक of the सबसे निष्कपट पहला महिलाओं in इतिहास  , commenting on every hot-button issue of the time , including feminism , equal pay , the ERA , sex , drugs , abortion , and gun control .
She also raised awareness of addiction when she announced her long-running  बैटल साथ alcoholism in the  1970s .
Following her White House years , she continued  to लॉबी लिये the era  and remained active in the feminist movement .
She was the founder , and served as the first chair of the board of directors , of the Betty Ford Center for  पदार्थ गाली और व्यसन और is a प्राप्तकर्ता of the congressional सुनहरा पदक  ( co-presentation with her husband , Gerald R. Ford , October 21 , 1998 ) and the Presidential Medal of Freedom ( alone , presented 1991 , by George H. W. Bush ) .
Platelet endothelial cell  adhesion अणु (  PECAM-1 ) also known as cluster of differentiation 31 ( CD31 ) is a protein that in human is encoded by the PECAM1 gene found on chromosome 17 .
PECAM-1 plays a key role in  निकालना aged neutrophils  from the body .
Jessica Rafalowski , Miss  फ्लोरिडा यूएसए  2008
Jenna Edwards ,  मिस फ्लोरिडा यूएसए  2007
Melissa  witek , मिस  Florida USA 2005
Kristen  berset  , Miss Florida USA 2004
The Miss Florida USA competition is the pageant that selects the  प्रतिनिधि लिये the  state Florida in the Miss USA pageant .
While Florida has been successful in  शर्तें of runners-up , finalists और semi-finalists ,  the state has never won the Miss USA pageant , although Cheryl Patton became Miss USA after Sylvia Hitchcock won Miss Universe .
Florida 's best  परिणाम  were during the mid-1960s to mid-1970s .
Their most recent finalist  थी  Lissette Garcia who placed in the top 16 in 2011 .
Two former  मिस फ्लोरिडा टीन  USA titleholders have won this competition , and three titleholders have also competed at Miss America .
the वर्तमान titleholder  is Michelle Aguirre of Hialeah .
Anglo-Saxon England refers to the period of the history of the part of Britain  कि became ज्ञात as इंग्लैण्ड  , lasting from the end of Roman occupation and establishment of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the 5th century until the Norman conquest of England in 1066 by William the Conqueror .
Anglo-Saxon is a general term referring to the Germanic peoples who came to Britain during the 5th and 6th centuries , including Angles , Saxons ,  frisii , और  Jutes .
The term also  refers  to the language spoken at the time in England , which is now called Old English , and to the culture of the era , which has long attracted popular and scholarly attention .
Until the 9th century Anglo-Saxon England was dominated by the Heptarchy , the kingdoms of Northumbria , Mercia  , ईस्ट anglia , एसेक्स , केंट , ससेक्स ,  and Wessex .
In terms of religion the kingdoms followed Anglo-Saxon  paganism दौरान the जल्दी काल , लकिन  converted to Christianity during the 7th century .
paganism था a फाइनल stronghold in a काल  of Mercian hegemony during the 640s , ending with the death of Penda of Mercia in 655 .
Facing the  threat of viking invasions , the हाउस of wessex  became dominant during the 9th century , under the rule of Alfred the Great .
During the 10th century , the individual kingdoms unified under the rule of Wessex into the Kingdom of England , which stood opposed  to the danelaw , the viking kingdoms स्थापित  from the 9th century in the north and east of England .
The  किंगडम of इंग्लैण्ड गिरी in the viking आक्रमण इससे डेनमार्क  in 1013 and was ruled by the House of Denmark until 1042 , when the Anglo-Saxon House of Wessex was restored .
The  पिछला anglo-saxon किंग , हेरोल्ड  Godwinson , was killed in 1066 at the Battle of Hastings .
Lighting a traditional red  ईंटों जॉन  Ross Jr kiln
Smoked salmon  is a तैयारी  of salmon , typically a fillet that has been cured and hot or cold smoked .
Due to its moderately high price , smoked salmon  is माना a कोमलता .
Although the term lox is sometimes applied to  स्मोक्ड सामन , वे  are different products .
View of defibrillator electrode position  and  placement .
Defibrillation is a  आम उपचार लिये life-threatening  cardiac dysrhythmias , ventricular fibrillation , and pulseless ventricular tachycardia .
defibrillation consists of delivering a therapeutic  dose of electrical energy to the affected heart with a device called a defibrillator .
This depolarizes a critical mass of the heart muscle , terminates the dysrhythmia , and allows normal sinus rhythm to be reestablished by the body 's natural  pacemaker , in the  sinoatrial node of the heart .
Defibrillators can be  बाह्य , transvenous  , or implanted , depending on the type of device used or needed .
Some external units , known as automated external defibrillators ( AEDs ) , automate the  निदान of treatable लय , अर्थ कि lay responders or bystanders हैं समर्थ to उपयोग  them successfully with little , or in some cases no training at all .
Gabrielle `` Coco '' Bonheur Chanel (  अगस्त 19 , 1883 – जनवरी 10 , 1971  ) was a French fashion designer and founder of the Chanel brand .
She was the only fashion designer to appear on Time magazine 's list of the 100  सबसे influential लोगों of the 20th सदी  .
Along with Paul Poiret , Chanel was credited with liberating women from the constraints of the `` corseted silhouette '' and popularizing the acceptance of a sportive , casual chic as the feminine standard in the  post- संसार युद्ध i era  .
A prolific fashion creator , Chanel 's influence  विस्तारित परे couture  clothing .
Her design  aesthetic थी एहसास in आभूषण  , handbags , and fragrance .
उसके हस्ताक्षर सैंट  , Chanel No . 5 , has become an iconic product .
चैनल थी ज्ञात  for her lifelong determination , ambition and energy which she applied to her professional and social life .
She achieved both success as a businesswoman and social prominence  धन्यवाद to the कनेक्शन्स वो बना  through her work .
These included many artists and  craftspeople to जिसको वो  became a patron .
However , Chanel 's highly competitive , opportunistic personality led her to make questionable life choices which  have उत्पन्न विवाद around उसके प्रतिष्ठा , विशेषकर उसके आचरण  during the German occupation of France in World War II .
Allied Mills flour mill on the banks of the  मैनचेस्टर जलयान  Canal
A  gristmill ( भी : grist  mill , corn mill or flour mill ) grinds grain into flour .
the पद can refer to  both the grinding mechanism and the building that holds it .
Romania ( ; dated spellings Roumania and Rumania ; ) is a country located at the intersection of  सेंट्रल और southeastern यूरोपीय , bordering  on the Black Sea .
Romania shares a border with Hungary and Serbia to the west , Ukraine and Moldova to the  पूर्वोत्तर और ईस्ट , और  Bulgaria to the south .
At , Romania is the  आठवीं largest देश of the यूरोपीय संघ by क्षेत्रफल , और रै the सातवाँ largest  population of the European Union with more than 19 million people .
Its capital and biggest city is Bucharest , the 11th  largest नगर in the  EU .
The United Principalities emerged when the territories of Moldavia and Wallachia were  संयुक्त अंतर्गत प्रिंस सिकंदर ioan cuza  in 1859 .
In 1866 Prince Karl of  hohenzollern-sigmaringen  was called to the throne as the Ruling Prince of the Romanian Principate and in 1881 he was finally crowned as King Carol I the first monarch of the Kingdom of Romania .
Independence from the Ottoman Empire was declared on 9 May  1877 , और थी internationally पहचाना  the following year .
At the end of World War I , Transylvania ,  bukovina और bessarabia संयुक्त  with the Kingdom of Romania .
World War II gave cause to the rise of a military dictatorship in Romania under fascist General  आयन antonescu , जो chose to लड़ो on the पक्ष of  the Axis powers from 1941 to 1944 .
After his removal ,  रोमानिया switched  sides in 1944 and joined the Allies .
By the end of the war , some formerly Romanian northeastern territories were occupied by the  सोवियत संघ , साथ रेड  Army units stationed on Romanian soil .
In 1947 Romania  forcibly became a लोगों 's  Republic ( 1947-1965 ) and a member of the Warsaw Pact .
In 1965 Nicolae Ceauşescu became  सामान्य सचिव of the रोमानियाई कम्युनिस्ट पार्टी , और the हर्ष austerity उपायों , राजनैतिक  repression , and cult of personality he implemented led to the Socialist Republic of Romania ( 1965-1989 ) becoming the most Stalinist police state in the Eastern bloc .
Eventually his authoritarian  सरकारी थी  toppled in December 1989 during the Romanian Revolution of 1989 .
With the fall of the Iron  पर्दा , रोमानिया began इसके परिवर्तन towards लोकतंत्र  and a capitalist market economy .
After a decade of post-revolution economic problems and living-standards decline , extensive reforms fostered economic  रिकवरी  .
As of 2010 , Romania is an upper-middle-income country with  a ऊँची इंसान विकास  index .
Romania joined NATO on 29 March 2004 , and the European Union on 1  जनवरी 2007  .
It is also a member of the : Latin Union , Francophonie , OSCE , WTO ,  bsec , संयुक्त  Nations , etc .
Today ,  रोमानिया is a एकात्मक semi-presidential  republic , in which the executive branch consists of the President and the Government .
`` प्राचीन  '' redirects here .
For other uses , see Antiquity (  बहुविकल्पी  ) .
The  टाइम्स पहले लिखने  belong either to protohistory or to prehistory .
Khafre 's  पिरामिड ( 4th  dynasty ) and Great Sphinx of Giza ( c. 2500 BC or perhaps earlier )
Ancient history is the study  of the लिखा  past from the beginning of recorded human history to the Early Middle Ages .
The span of recorded history  is roughly 5,000 सालो , साथ cuneiform स्क्रिप्ट  , the oldest discovered form of coherent writing , from the protoliterate period around the 30th century BC .
This is the beginning of  इतिहास , as opposed to प्रागितिहास , according  to the definition used by most historians .
The term classical antiquity is often used to refer to  इतिहास in the बूढ़ा संसार इससे the शुरूआत  of recorded Greek history in 776 BC ( First Olympiad ) .
This roughly coincides with the traditional date of  the founding of रोम in 753 bc , the शुरूआत of the  history of ancient Rome , and the beginning of the Archaic period in Ancient Greece .
Although the ending date of ancient history is disputed , some Western scholars use the fall  of the पश्चिमी रोमन साम्राज्य in 476 ad , the closure  of the Platonic Academy in 529 AD , the death of the emperor Justinian I , the coming of Islam or the rise of Charlemagne as the end of ancient and Classical European history .
In India , the period includes the early period of the Middle Kingdoms , and , in  चीन , the समय  up to the Qin Dynasty is included .
methylcobalamin (  shown ) is a form of vitamin B12 .
Physically it resembles the other forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as dark  रेड crystals कि freely रूप cherry-colored  transparent solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 , also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble vitamin  साथ a कुंजी भूमिका in the सामान्य  functioning of the brain and nervous system , and for the formation of blood .
It  is एक  of the eight B vitamins .
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of the human  देह , विशेषकर affecting डीएनए  synthesis and regulation , but also fatty acid synthesis and energy production .
Neither fungi , plants , nor animals are capable of producing  विटामिन  B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its synthesis ,  हालांकि  many foods are a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis .
The vitamin is the largest and most  structurally जटिल विटामिन और  can be produced industrially only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin B12  consists of a क्लास of chemically  related compounds ( vitamers ) , all of which have vitamin activity .
It contains the biochemically rare  तत्व  cobalt .
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin ) , but  परिवर्तन between अलग फ़ॉर्म of the  vitamin can be accomplished in the human body .
A common  semi-synthetic रूप of the विटामिन , cyanocobalamin , करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति , लकिन is  produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements , and as a food additive , because of its stability and lower production cost .
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin , leaving behind the cyanide , albeit in  minimal विशेषज्ञता  .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin , and adenosylcobalamin can be found in more expensive  pharmacological उत्पाद और खाना पूरक  .
The extra utility of these is currently  debated  .
Vitamin B12 was discovered from  इसके संबंध to the बीमारी  pernicious anemia , which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12 ,   so a lack of intrinsic factor , as seen in pernicious anemia , causes a vitamin B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds of  विटामिन b12 कमियां और उनके  biochemical effects have since been elucidated .
The Roman Empire ( ) was the post-  रिपब्लिकन काल of the प्राचीन रोमन सभ्यता , characterised  by an autocratic form of government and large territorial holdings around the Mediterranean in Europe , Africa , and Asia .
The 500-year-old Roman Republic , which preceded it , had been destabilized  through a  series of civil wars .
Several events marked the transition from Republic to Empire , including Julius Caesar 's  नियुक्ति as perpetual तानाशाह ( 44 bc ) ;  the Battle of Actium ( 31 BC ) ; and the granting of the honorific Augustus to Octavian by the Roman Senate ( 27 BC ) .
The first two centuries of the Empire were a period  of unprecedented स्थिरता और  prosperity known as the Pax Romana ( `` Roman Peace '' ) .
It reached  इसके महानतम expanse  during the reign of Trajan ( 98–117 AD ) .
In the 3rd  सदी , the साम्राज्य underwent a संकट कि  threatened its existence , but was reunified and stabilized under the emperors Aurelian and Diocletian .
Christians rose to power in the 4th century ,  दौरान  which time a system of dual rule was developed in the Latin West and Greek East .
After the collapse of central government in the West in the  5th सदी , the पूर्वी हाफ जारी as कया होता  later be known as the Byzantine Empire .
Because of the Empire 's vast extent and long endurance , the institutions and culture of Rome had a profound and lasting influence on the development of language , religion , architecture , philosophy , law , and forms of government in the  territory it governed , विशेषकर यूरोपीय , और by अर्थात् of यूरोपीय expansionism  throughout the modern world .
Total body surface area ( TBSA ) is an  मूल्यांकन माप of burns  of the skin .
In adults , the  `` नियम of nines '' is प्रयुक्त  to determine the total percentage of area burned for each major section of the body .
In some cases , the burns may cover more than one body part , or may not fully  कवर ऐसे a भाग ; in ये  cases , burns are measured by using the casualty 's palm as a reference point for 1 % of the body .
For children and infants , the Lund-Browder chart is used to assess the burned body  सतह क्षेत्रफल  .
Different percentages are used because the ratio of the combined surface area of the head  और गर्दन to the सतह क्षेत्रफल of the limbs is typically larger in children  than that of an adult .
Typical  मान  for common groups of humans follow .
( Due to rounding ,  मान may नहीं add to  100 % . )
World  शिशु मृत्यु  rates by five years averages in 2008 .
इस is a सूची  of countries by infant mortality rate .
यूनुस किर्स्टन sorrentino  ( born June 26 , 1975 ) , better known by his stage name KJ-52 , is a Christian rapper from Tampa , Florida .
The `` KJ '' part of his name refers to his old rap  alias , `` किंग J. मैक , '' a नाम जिससे he बाद वर्णित  in one of his podcasts as `` horribly cheesy . ''
`` 52 '' , which is pronounced `` five two '' , not `` fifty-two '' , is a reference to the Biblical story of Jesus feeding the multitude with five loaves and two fish , which is also  सुंग परिचय in उसके सोंग `` धक्का up '' इससे the yearbook और in the  `` KJ Five Two '' on It 's Pronounced 'Five Two .
He was awarded the Rap/Hip Hop Recorded Song of the Year for `` Never Look Away '' and  rap/hip हॉप एल्बम of the साल at the  GMA Dove Awards of 2007 .
On July 28 , 2009 , KJ-52 released `` End of My Rope '' , which is the  पहला सिंगल लिये उसके एल्बम five-two  Television .
His song `` Dear Slim '' is based on Eminem 's song ``  स्टेन `` और is a sort of  personal message from KJ-52 to Eminem .
The degree symbol ( ° ) is a typographical symbol that is used ,  among अन्य बाते , to represent डिग्री of चाप ( e.g .  in geographic coordinate systems ) , hours ( in the medical field ) , or degrees of temperature .
The symbol  consists of a छोटी उठाया  circle , historically a zero glyph .
In  युनिकोड it is एनकोडेड  at .
This is a list of roots , suffixes , and prefixes  प्रयुक्त in चिकित्सा  terminology , their meanings , and their etymology .
वहीँ हैं  a few rules when using medical roots .
Firstly , prefixes and suffixes , primarily in Greek , but  भी in लैटिन , have  a droppable -o- .
As a general rule , this -o- almost always acts as a joint-stem to connect two  consonantal जड़ें , e.g . arthr- + -o- + logy  = arthrology .
But generally , the -o- is dropped when  connecting to a vowel-stem ; e.g . arthr- + itis  = arthritis , instead of arthr-o-itis .
Secondly , medical roots generally go together according to  भाषा : यूनानी prefixes go साथ यूनानी प्रत्यय और  Latin prefixes with Latin suffixes .
Although international scientific vocabulary is not stringent about segregating combining forms of different languages , it is advisable when coining new words not to mix different lingual  roots  .
Stomach cancer , or  gastric कर्कट ,  refers to cancer arising from any part of the stomach .
Stomach cancer causes about 800,000  मौतों विश्वव्यापी  per year .
Prognosis is poor ( 5-year survival < 5 to 15 % ) because most patients  उपस्थित साथ उन्नत बीमारी  .
Sara Lynn Evans ( born February 5 , 1971 ) is an American  देश सिंगर और songwriter  .
For her entire career , she has been  हस्ताक्षरित to आरसीए रिकॉर्ड नैशविले  .
इवांस ' डेब्यू , तीन  Chords and the Truth , did not produce a Top 40 hit on the Hot Country Songs charts .
She followed this up with No Place That Far ( 1998 ) , Born to Fly ( 2000 ) , Restless (  2003 ) और रियल  Fine Place ( 2005 ) .
No Place That Far received a gold certification from the Recording Industry  संघ of अमेरिका ( riaa )  , while the other three albums all were certified platinum .
These discs include the number 1 singles `` No Place That Far `` , `` Born to Fly `` , `` Suds in the Bucket `` and `` A Real Fine Place to Start `` , plus the top 10 hits `` I Could Not Ask for More `` ( a cover of the  एडविन मैक्केन सोंग ) , `` i रखना looking `` , `` पूर्ण `` और `` cheatin ' ``  .
Her  2007 महानतम हिट्स शामिल  the top 15 hits `` You 'll Always Be My Baby `` and `` As If `` .
Stronger ( 2011 ) included her fifth number  1 hit , `` a छोटी बिट stronger  `` , which was co-written by Hillary Scott of Lady Antebellum .
Evans has  भी जीती एक पुरस्कार प्रत्येक इससे बिलबोर्ड , the अकादमी of  Country Music , Country Music Association , Broadcast Music Incorporated ( BMI ) and a Dove Award .
The world 's principal  धर्मों  and spiritual traditions may be classified into a small number of major groups , although this is by no means a uniform practice .
This  सिद्धान्त began  in the 18th century with the goal of recognizing the relative levels of civility in societies .
berliners watching a c-54 जमीन  at Tempelhof Airport ( 1948 )
The Berlin blockade ( 24 June 1948 – 12  may 1949 ) थी एक of the पहला प्रमुख  international crises of the Cold War .
During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany , the Soviet Union blocked the Western Allies ' railway , road ,  और कनाल अभिगम to the सेक्टर of बर्लिन अंतर्गत अलाइड कंट्रोल  .
Their aim was to force the western powers to allow the Soviet zone to start supplying Berlin  साथ खाना और ईंधन , thereby giving  the Soviets practical control over the entire city .
In response , the Western Allies organized the Berlin  एयरलिफ्ट to carry आपूर्तियाँ to the लोगों in वेस्ट बर्लिन  .
Aircrews  इससे the संयुक्त राज्य एयर फ़ोर्स , the अंग्रेजों royal एयर फ़ोर्स  , the Royal Australian Air Force , the Royal Canadian Air Force , the Royal New Zealand Air Force , and the South African Air Force flew over 200,000 flights in one year , providing up to 4700 tons of daily necessities such as fuel and food to the Berliners .
By the spring of 1949 , the effort was clearly succeeding  और , by अप्रैल , the एयरलिफ्ट थी delivering  more cargo than had previously been transported into the city by rail .
The success of the Berlin Airlift brought embarrassment to the Soviets who  था refused to मानना it  could make a difference .
The  नाकेबंदी थी lifted  in May 1949 and resulted in the creation of two separate German states .
The Federal Republic of  जर्मनी ( वेस्ट  Germany ) and the German Democratic Republic ( East Germany ) split up Berlin .
In remembrance of the airlift , three airports in the former western zones of the city served as the primary gateways to  जर्मनी लिये another पचास सालो  .
The  यूरोपियन चिह्न ;  logotype and handwritten .
The euro  चिह्न is the करेंसी चिह्न  used for the euro , the official currency of the Eurozone in the European Union ( EU ) .
The design was presented to  the पब्लिक by the यूरोपीय आयोग on  12 December 1996 .
The international three-letter code ( according to  आईएसओ मानक आईएसओ  4217 ) for the euro is EUR .
In Unicode it is  एनकोडेड  at .
In English ,  the चिह्न precedes  the value .
In some styleguides , but  नहीं अन्य , the  euro sign is unspaced .
Mate ( , ; sometimes also spelled maté ) , also known as chimarrão ( ) or cimarrón ( ) , is a traditional South American infused drink , particularly in Argentina , Uruguay , Paraguay and the southern states  of ब्राज़ील और to a lesser उपाधि in दक्षिण  of Chile , the Bolivian Chaco , Syria and Lebanon .
It is prepared from steeping dried leaves of yerba mate ( llex  paraguariensis , ज्ञात in पुर्तगाली  as erva-mate ) in hot water .
Mate is served with a metal straw from a  साझा खोखला calabash करेले  .
The straw is called a bombilla in  कुछ लैटिन अमरीकी देशों , a bomba in पुर्तगाली  , and a bombija or , more generally , a masassa ( type of straw ) in Arabic .
The  स्ट्रॉ is traditionally  made of silver .
Modern , commercially available straws are typically made of nickel silver , called  alpaca ; बेदाग स्टील , or  hollow-stemmed cane .
The gourd is known as a mate or a guampa ; while in Brazil , it  रै the विशिष्ट नाम of cuia , or भी cabaça ( the नाम लिये indigenous-influenced calabash  gourds in other regions of Brazil , still used for general food and drink in remote regions ) .
Even if  the जल is supplied इससे a आधुनिक thermos  , the infusion is traditionally drunk from mates or cuias .
As with other brewed herbs , yerba  mate पत्ते हैं सूखी , कटा  , and ground into a powdery mixture called yerba .
The bombilla acts  as दोनो a स्ट्रॉ  and a sieve .
The submerged end is flared , with  छोटी छेद or स्लॉट कि allow the brewed  liquid in , but block the chunky matter that makes up much of the mixture .
A modern bombilla design uses a straight tube  साथ छेद , or वसन्त स्लीव  to act as a sieve .
`` Tea-bag '' type infusions of mate ( mate cocido ) have been on the market in Argentina , Paraguay and Uruguay for many years under such trade names as ``  taragüí vitality '' in अर्जेंटीना , `` pajarito '' और `` kurupí '' in पैराग्वे , और in ब्राज़ील  under the name `` Mate Leão '' .
This is considered a  completely अलग  drink .
It is never drunk from cuias or called chimarrão , nor is it associated with  the gaucho/gaúcho  culture .
The automotive industry is a term that covers a wide range of companies and organisations involved in the design , development ,  manufacture , विपणन , और selling of मोटर वाहनों , towed  vehicles , motorcycles and mopeds .
It is one of the world 's  सबसे महत्वपूर्ण आर्थिक सेक्टर  by revenue .
The term automotive  उद्योग प्रायः करता नहीं शामिल उद्योग समर्पित to the मेंटेनेंस of ऑटोमोबाइल  following delivery to the end-user , such as repair shops and motor fuel filling stations .
The term automotive was created from Greek autos ( self ) ,  और लैटिन motivus ( of गति  ) to represent any form of self-powered vehicle .
This term  थी प्रस्तावित  by SAE member Elmer Sperry .
David Michael `` Dave '' Bautista , Jr. ( born  जनवरी 18 , 1969 ) , is an अमरीकी मिश्रित martial कलाकार , bodybuilder ,  actor , and former professional wrestler best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment competing under the ring name Batista .
In WWE , he became a six-time  संसार चैंपियन , जीतना the संसार हेवीवेट चैंपियनशिप चार टाइम्स  , and the WWE Championship two times .
He  is the longest-reigning  World Heavyweight Champion in WWE history .
In addition to these championships , Batista has won the World Tag Team Championship three times ( twice  साथ ric  Flair and once with John Cena ) and the WWE Tag Team Championship once ( with Rey Mysterio ) .
Batista was also the winner of the 2005 Royal Rumble match and went on to headline WrestleMania 21 , one  of the शीर्ष पाँच highest-grossing pay-per-view  events in pro wrestling history .
After trying out at World Championship Wrestling 's Power Plant , Batista signed a contract with the WWF in 2000 and was sent  to इसके developmental  territory , Ohio Valley Wrestling ( OVW ) , where he won the OVW Heavyweight Championship .
In August 2012 , Bautista signed a contract with Classic Entertainment & Sports to  लड़ो in मिश्रित martial  arts .
He won his MMA debut  on अक्तूबर 6 , 2012 , defeating  Vince Lucero via TKO in the first round .
Henry T.  थामस sampson , jr. ( born in  Jackson , Mississippi in 1934 ) is an African-American inventor .
He graduated from high school  in 1951 इससे lanier ऊँची स्कूल  in Jackson , Mississippi .
He  तब attended मोरहाउस कॉलेज  for a couple of years before transferring to Purdue University where he became a member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity .
He received a  स्नातक 's उपाधि in  science from Purdue University in 1956 .
He  ग्रैजुएट  with an MS degree in engineering from the University of California , Los Angeles in 1961 .
Sampson also received his MS in Nuclear Engineering from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign in 1965 ,  और उसके phd  in 1967 .
He is the first  अफ़्रीकी अमरीकी to earn  a Ph.D.in Nuclear Engineering in the United States .
कुछ of उसके accomplishments शामिल होने a सदस्य of the संयुक्त राज्य  Navy between the years 1962 and 1964 and earning an Atomic Energy Commission honor between 1964 and 1967 .
Later he was awarded the Black Image Award from Aerospace  निगम in 1982  .
He was  awarded the अश्वेतों in अभियान्त्रिकी , लागू विज्ञान  Award , and prize for education , by the Los Angeles Council of Black Professional Engineers in 1983 .
In  जून 2007 , sampson थी शादीशुदा  to Laura Howzell Young in St. Thomas , U.S. Virgin Islands .
Young-Sampson is a  प्राध्यापक in the कॉलेज of शिक्षा  at California State University San Bernardino .
Robert Lane Gibbs (  born कूच 29 , 1971 ) is  a senior campaign adviser for US President Barack Obama .
Previously , he was the 28th White House Press  सचिव  .
Gibbs was  the संचार निदेशक लिये then-  U.S . Senator Obama and his 2008 presidential campaign .
Gibbs , who has worked with Obama since 2004 , was press secretary of John Kerry 's 2004 presidential campaign and has previously specialized in Senate campaigns , having served as  संचार निदेशक लिये the लोकतांत्रिक senatorial अभियान कमेटी और लिये चार व्यक्तिगत  Senate campaigns , including those of Obama in 2004 and Fritz Hollings in 1998 .
गिब्स  was also the press secretary of Representative Bob Etheridge .
On November 22 , 2008 , Gibbs  थी घोषित as the दबायें  secretary of the Obama administration .
He assumed the role of press secretary on January  20 , 2009 , और दिया उसके पहला  official briefing on January 22 .
On January 5 , 2011 , Gibbs announced that he would leave the White House to become  an बाहर adviser  to the administration .
He left on  फ़रवरी  11 , 2011 .
On February 12 , 2013 , it was announced that  गिब्स था महरूम नियुक्त  as a contributor for cable-news channel MSNBC .
उसके पहला रूप  was on the same night prior to the 2013 State Of The Union Address .
Armando Pérez ( born January 15 , 1981 ) , better known by his stage name  pitbull , is an अमरीकी rapper , songwriter , और  record producer .
His first recorded performance was from the Lil Jon album Kings of  crunk  in 2002 .
In 2004 , he released his debut album  titled m.i.a.m.i  . ( short for Money Is A Major Issue ) under TVT Records .
Since then , he has released  तीन अन्य एल्बम अंतर्गत the लेबल :  El Mariel in 2006 , The Boatlift in 2007 , and Planet Pit in 2011 .
He released  rebelution in 2009 , जिससे शामिल singles  `` I Know You Want Me ( Calle Ocho ) `` and `` Krazy `` .
The latter peaked at No . 30 on the Hot 100 and No . 11 on the Hot Rap  ट्रैक्स चार्ट जबकि `` i जान तुम want me  '' peaked at No . 2 on the Hot 100 and peaked within the top ten spots of charts in the UK , Canada , Italy , and the Netherlands .
The song reached No . 1 in France  और the यूरोपीय hot 100 on the  week ending August 29 , 2009 according to Billboard magazine .
He later  हस्ताक्षरित  with Polo Grounds Music through Sony Music and created his own label Mr. 305 Inc .
Another single from Rebelution was `` Hotel Room Service `` , which  peaked at no . 8 on the hot  100 .
Rebelution went on to  बेचें over 7.5 लाख  worldwide digital singles and albums combined .
nevertheless , he dropped a तोड़ पुकारा  `` Give Me Everything '' which reached # 1 worldwide , and featured artists Ne-yo , Nayer , and Afrojack .
He has also performed as a featured artist in the remixes of many other hit songs , like Tik Tok , Scream & Shout , Lo Hecho Esta Hecho , Bad , Papi  , ईंट , कैसा कम , tonight ( i 'm lovin ' तुम ) , वीडियो  Phone , Over To You Now and Bumpy Ride .
Pérez is also  the मेजबान of उसके अपना spanish-language  program on the cable channel Mun2 titled La Esquina ( Spanish for The Corner ) .
In 2005 Pérez and rapper Sean 'Diddy ' Combs co-founded Bad Boy Latino , a subsidiary of  combs ' ख़राब लड़के रिकॉर्ड  label .
It primarily focuses on Latin hip hop , Latin soul , Latin  पॉप और अन्य तीव्र म्यूज़िक  , and has offices in New York and Miami , Florida .
Along with co-founding it , Pérez currently  heads the a  & R division of the label .
Pérez has become a product endorser , representing alongside  ड्रेक , रिहाना , और trey songz the “so kodak” अभियान लिये the कोडक ब्रांड और embarking on a साझेदारी  with the soft drink giant Dr Pepper as part of the campaign “ Vida 23 ” for which he recorded the song specifically featured on his album Armando .
Pitbull also announced he has become the spokesperson for Voli Vodka , in which he holds a majority equity  हिस्सेदारी , और budweiser रै चुनी pitbull to प्रचार इसके कली लाइट  line of beer .
The commercials  फिलहाल हाइलाइट pitbull  dancing and gyrating on stage holding up a bottle of Bud Light .
Pitbull has also purchased an equity stake  in मियामी subs  Pizza and Grill .
Halloween or Hallowe'en ( a contraction of `` All Hallows ' Evening `` ) , also known  as सब hallows ' संध्या , is a वार्षिक जश्न observed in a क्रमांक of देशों on अक्तूबर 31 , the  eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows ( or All Saints ) and the day initiating the triduum of Hallowmas .
According to many scholars , All Hallows ' Eve is a Christianised  feast originally बहकावे by पश्चिमी यूरोपीय  harvest festivals , and festivals of the dead with possible pagan roots , particularly the Celtic Samhain .
अन्य विद्वानों  maintain that it originated independently of Samhain and has solely Christian roots .
Typical festive Halloween activities include trick-or-treating ( also known as `` guising `` ) , attending costume parties , carving pumpkins  into jack-o'-lanterns , lighting bonfires  , apple bobbing , visiting haunted attractions , playing pranks , telling scary stories , and watching horror films .
Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one 's opinions and ideas  using एक 's देह और प्रॉपर्टी to anyone जो  is willing to receive them .
The term freedom  of अभिव्यक्ति is sometimes  used synonymously , but includes any act of seeking , receiving and imparting information or ideas , regardless of the medium used .
In practice , the right to freedom of speech is not  निरपेक्ष in कोई देश और the सही is commonly विषय to सीमाएं , as साथ मानहानि  , slander , obscenity , sedition ( including , for example inciting ethnic hatred ) , copyright violation , revelation of information that is classified or otherwise .
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a  इंसान  right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights ( ICCPR ) .
Article 19 of the ICCPR states that `` [ e ] veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference '' and `` everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression ; this right shall include freedom to seek , receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds , regardless of  frontiers , either orally , in लिखने or in छपाई , in the रूप of आर्ट , or through  any other media of his choice '' .
Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries `` special duties and responsibilities `` and may `` therefore be subject to certain restrictions '' when necessary `` [ f ] or respect of the rights or  प्रतिष्ठा of अन्य '' or `` [ f ] or the सुरक्षा  of national security or of public order ( order public ) , or of public health or morals '' .
Freedom of  वाक may be legally curtailed  in some religious legal systems and in secular jurisdictions where it is found to cause religious offense , such as the British Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 .
Sydney Harbour from the air , showing the Opera House , the CBD , Circular Quay , the  सेतु , the parramatta नदी , उत्तर सिडनी और kirribilli  in the foreground
The Sydney Harbour Bridge is a steel through arch bridge across Sydney Harbour that carries rail , vehicular , bicycle and pedestrian traffic between the Sydney central  कारोबार ज़िला ( सीबीडी ) और the उत्तर  Shore .
The dramatic view of the bridge , the harbour , and the nearby Sydney  ओपेरा हाउस is  an iconic image of Sydney , New South Wales , and Australia .
The bridge is  nicknamed `` the coathanger  '' because of its arch-based design .
Under the directions of Dr J.J.C . Bradfield of the NSW Department of Public Works , the bridge was designed and built by British  कड़ dorman long और co ltd of middlesbrough और  opened in 1932 .
The bridge 's design was influenced by  the नरक फाटक सेतु  in New York .
It was the world 's widest long-span bridge , at  48.8 मीटर ( 160 फीट ) चौड़ी , जबतक  construction of the new Port Mann Bridge in Vancouver .
It is also  the पांचवां longest spanning-arch सेतु in the संसार  , and it is the tallest steel arch bridge , measuring from top to water level .
Until 1967 the Harbour Bridge  थी सिडनी 's tallest ढांचा  .
The Hawaii hotspot is a volcanic hotspot located near the namesake Hawaiian Islands ,  in the उत्तरी प्रशांत  Ocean .
One of the most well-known and  heavily पढ़ाई हॉटस्पॉट in the संसार , the हवाई plume is जिम्मेदार लिये the सृष्टि  of the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain , an over 5,800 kilometres ( 3,600 mi ) long chain of volcanoes , four of which are active , two of which are dormant , and more than 123 of which are extinct , many having since been ground beneath the waves by erosion as seamounts and atolls .
The chain extends from south of the island of Hawaii to the edge of the Aleutian Trench , near the  पूर्वी किनारे  of Russia .
While most volcanoes are created by geological activity at tectonic plate boundaries , the Hawaii hotspot is located far from nearby plate boundaries ; the classic hotspot theory , first proposed in 1963 by John Tuzo Wilson , proposes that a single , fixed mantle plume builds volcanoes that then , cut off from their source by the movement of the Pacific Plate , become  increasingly निष्क्रिय और आखिरकार इरोड नीचे समुद्र स्तर over लाखो  of years .
According to this theory , the nearly 60° bend separating the Emperor and Hawaiian segments of  the कड़ी थी caused by a अचानक शिफ़्ट  in the movement of the Pacific Plate .
In 2003 , fresh investigations of this irregularity led to the proposal of a mobile hotspot theory , suggesting that hotspots are mobile , not fixed ,  और कि the 47 लाख साल बूढ़ा बेंड थी caused by a शिफ़्ट  in the hotspot 's motion rather than the plate 's .
Ancient  hawaiians यहूद the पहला  to recognize the increasing age and weathered state of the volcanoes to the north as they progressed on fishing expeditions along the islands .
The volatile state of the Hawaiian volcanoes and their constant battle with the sea was a  प्रमुख तत्व in हवाई mythology ,  embodied in Pele , the deity of volcanoes .
After the arrival of  europeans on the द्वीप , in 1880-1881 जेम्स ड्वाइट दाना निर्देशित  the first formal geological study of the hotspot 's volcanics , confirming the relationship long observed by the natives .
1912 marked the founding of the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory by  volcanologist थामस jaggar , initiating  continuous scientific observation of the islands .
In the 1970s , a mapping project was initiated to gain more information about the  जटिल भूविज्ञान of हवाई 's  seafloor .
The hotspot has since been tomographically imaged , showing it to be wide and up to deep , and olivine and garnet -based studies have shown its magma  कक्ष is लगभग  .
In its at least 85 million years of activity the  हॉटस्पॉट रै उत्पादित  an estimated of rock .
The chain 's rate of drift has slowly increased over time , causing the amount of time each individual volcano is active to decrease , from 18 million years for  the 76 लाख साल बूढ़ा डेट्रॉयट seamount , to बस अंतर्गत 900,000 लिये the एक लाख  year-old Kohala ; on the other hand , eruptive volume has increased from per year to about .
Overall , this has caused a  ट्रेंड towards अधिक क्रियाशील लकिन quickly-silenced , closely spaced volcanoes—whereas ज्वालामुखी on the निकट पक्ष of the हॉटस्पॉट ओवरलैप प्रत्येक अन्य ( forming  such superstructures as Hawaii island and the ancient Maui Nui ) , the oldest of the Emperor seamounts are spaced as far as apart .
David Palmer , director of  the दिखाएँ , घोषित कि the ऋतु  4 finale is the series finale because Nickelodeon canceled the show .
Petitions are  होने हस्ताक्षरित to  bring the show for a fifth season .
The  दिखाएँ airs on treehouse  TV Canada and Nick Jr. ( formerly Noggin ) .
Eddie and the Cruisers is a 1983 American film directed by Martin  डेविडसन साथ the पटकथा लिखा  by the director and Arlene Davidson , based on the novel by P. F. Kluge .
It was  marketed साथ the  tagline `` Rebel .
रॉकर  .
प्रेमी .
Idol  .
vanished  . ''
Osteonecrosis of the  जबड़ों ( onj ) is a कठोर  bone disease that affects the maxilla and the mandible .
Various forms of ONJ have been described over the last 160 years  , और a क्रमांक of कल्याणकारी have महरूम सुझाया  in the literature .
Osteonecrosis  of the जबड़े संबद्ध साथ bisphosphonate चिकित्सा , जरूरी by कुछ  cancer treatment regimens , has been identified and defined as a pathological entity since 2003 .
The possible risk from lower oral doses of  bisphosphonates  , taken by patients to prevent or treat osteoporosis , remains uncertain .
Various treatment options have been explored , however severe cases of ONJ  स्टिल आवश्यकता सर्जिकल हटाना of  the affected bone .
A thorough history and assessement of pre-existing systemic problems and possible sites of  दंत संक्रमण हैं जरूरी  to help prevent the condition , especially if bisphosphonate therapy is considered .
The Boston Red Sox  हैं a पेशेवर बेसबॉल टोली आधारित in बोस्टन  , Massachusetts , and a member of Major League Baseball 's American League Eastern Division .
Founded in as one of the American League 's eight charter franchises , the Red Sox 's home ballpark  रै महरूम fenway पार्क  since .
The `` Red Sox '' name was chosen by the team owner  , जॉन I. टेलर , around , following पिछला बोस्टन  teams that had been known as the `` Red Stockings `` .
They have played  in 11  World Series , winning 7 .
Boston was a dominant team in the new  लीग , defeating  the Pittsburgh Pirates in the first World Series in and winning four more championships by .
However , they then went into one of the  longest चैंपियनशिप droughts in बेसबॉल इतिहास , पुकारा by  some the `` Curse of the Bambino `` after its alleged beginning with the Red Sox 's sale of Babe Ruth to the rival Yankees two years after their world championship in 1918 , an 86-year wait before the team 's sixth World Championship in .
However , the team 's  इतिहास दौरान कि काल थी hardly एक of futility , लकिन थी बल्कि punctuated साथ कुछ of the सबसे यादगार पल  in World Series history , including Enos Slaughter 's `` mad dash `` in , the `` Impossible Dream `` of , Carlton Fisk 's home run in , and Bill Buckner 's error in .
Red Sox history has also been marked by the team 's intense rivalry with the New York Yankees , arguably the fiercest and  सबसे ऐतिहासिक in उत्तर अमरीकी पेशेवर  sports .
The Boston Red Sox are  स्वामित्व by fenway खेल समूह , जो  also own Liverpool Football Club of the Premier League in England .
The Red Sox are consistently one  of the शीर्ष एमएलबी टीमों in औसत सड़क उपस्थिति , जबकि the छोटी क्षमता  of Fenway Park prevents them from leading in overall attendance .
From May 15 , 2003 to April 10 , 2013 , the Red Sox sold out every home game-a total of 820 games ( 794 regular season )  लिये a प्रमुख पेशेवर खेल रिकार्ड कि lasted लगभग  a decade .
Mince pie  भर साथ mincemeat
Mincemeat is a mixture of chopped dried fruit , distilled spirits and spices , and  sometimes बीफ suet , बीफ , or venison  .
originally , mincemeat  always contained meat .
Many modern  व्यंजनों contain बीफ suet , हालांकि  vegetable shortening is sometimes used in its place .
Variants of mincemeat are found in Australia , Brittany , Canada , northern Europe , Ireland , South Africa , the United Kingdom  और the संयुक्त राज्य  .
In some  देशों the पद  mincemeat refers to minced or ground meat .
Diana , Princess of Wales ( Diana Frances ; née Spencer ; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997 ) was the first wife of  चार्ल्स , प्रिंस of वेल्स , the ज्येष्ठ बेटे और वारिस apparent of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ  II .
She was well known for  उसके fund-raising कार्य  for international charities and as an eminent celebrity of the late 20th century .
Her wedding to the Prince of Wales on 29 July 1981  थी आयोजित at st पॉल 's गिरजाघर और देखी by a वैश्विक  television audience of over 750 million .
While married she bore the titles Princess of  वेल्स  , Duchess of Cornwall , Duchess of Rothesay , Countess of Chester and Baroness of Renfrew .
The  विवाह उत्पादित दो बेटे , the  princes William and Harry , who became second and third in line to the British throne .
डायना थी born  into an aristocratic English family with royal ancestry .
She was the fourth child of John Spencer , 8th Earl Spencer and his  बीवी frances , बेटी of मौरिस  Roche , 4th Baron Fermoy .
She became a public figure with the  घोषणा of उसके  engagement .
She also received  मान्यता लिये उसके दान कार्य  and for her support of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines .
इससे 1989 , वो थी the अध्यक्ष  of the Great Ormond Street Hospital for children , in addition to dozens of other charities .
Diana remained the object of worldwide media scrutiny during and after  उसके विवाह , जिससे  ended in divorce on 28 August 1996 .
Media attention  और पब्लिक शोक  were considerable following her death in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997 .
अर्जेंटीना , officially the अर्जेंटाइन गणतंत्र  ( ) , is the second largest country in both South America and the Latin America region .
The country is a federation of  23 प्रांतों और the autonomous  city of Buenos Aires , its capital and largest city .
It is the eighth -largest country in the world by land area and  the largest among spanish-speaking राष्ट्र by भौगोलिक क्षेत्रफल of 2,780,400 km2  and is the fourth by population , with over 41 million people .
अर्जेंटीना is a founding सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , mercosur , the संघ  of South American Nations , the Organization of Ibero-American States , the World Bank Group and the World Trade Organization , and is one of the G-15 and G-20 major economies .
अर्जेंटीना is स्तिथ in दक्षिण अमेरिका  , bordered by Chile to the west and south , Bolivia and Paraguay to the north and Brazil and Uruguay to the northeast .
अर्जेंटीना दावा प्रभुता  over part of Antarctica , the Falkland Islands ( ) and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands .
Argentina is the successor state of the Viceroyalty of  the río de la प्लाटा  , an overseas colony of the Spanish Empire .
Argentina declared independence during the Argentine War of  स्वतंत्रता , जिससे थी  followed by the Argentine Civil Wars during most of the 19th century .
The country faced several military coups and political instability during the 20th century , along with  आवधिक आर्थिक संकट कि  continue to this day .
A recognized Southern  कोन शक्ति , और मध्य शक्ति , अर्जेंटीना is लैटिन अमेरिका 's  third-largest economy , with a `` very high '' rating on the Human development index .
Within Latin America , Argentina has the fifth highest nominal GDP per  capita और the उच्चतम in खरीदना  power terms .
The Legatum Institute have argued that the country has a ``  न्यास लिये भविष्य विकास due to इसके मार्केट आकार  , levels of foreign direct investment , and percentage of high-tech exports as share of total manufactured goods '' , and it is classed by investors as middle emerging economy .
Argentina is the Latin American country with the most Nobel Prizes , for a  कुल of पाँच , सब प्राप्त  during the second half of the twentieth century .
The country has three Nobel prizes  in विज्ञान और दो of  peace .
The most important aspects of science and technology in Argentina are concerned with medicine , nuclear  भौतिकी , जैवप्रौद्योगिकी , nanotechnology , स्पेस और प्रक्षेपास्त्र प्रौद्योगिकी  and several fields related to the country 's Main Economic Activities .
The  देश भी रै the आचमन प्रदर्शनी  center of science , technology , industry and art that are Latin America 's largest .
Hickory is a city in Catawba  काउंटी , साथ भाग भी in बुर्के काउंटी  and Caldwell County .
The city 's 2010 estimated  जनसांख्यिकी is 40,010  .
Hickory is  the  principal city in the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton MSA , in which the population at the 2010 Census was 365,497 .
Polyethylene terephthalate ( sometimes written poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) ) , commonly abbreviated PET , PETE , or the obsolete PETP or  pet-p , is a thermoplastic पॉलिमर राल of the पॉलिएस्टर परिवार और is प्रयुक्त in सिंथेटिक मछली ; पेय  , food and other liquid containers ; thermoforming applications ; and engineering resins often in combination with glass fiber .
The term polyethylene terephthalate is a source of confusion because this  पदार्थ , पालतु  , does not contain polyethylene .
Thus , the alternate form , poly ( ethylene terephthalate ) , is often used  in scholarly जर्नल्स  for the sake of accuracy and clarity .
Depending on its processing and thermal history , polyethylene  terephthalate may मौजूद दोनो as an amorphous ( पारदर्शी ) और as a semi-crystalline पॉलिमर  .
The semicrystalline material might appear transparent ( particle size < 500 nm ) or opaque and white ( particle size up to a  few माइक्रोन ) depending on इसके क्रिस्टल ढांचा  and particle size .
Its monomer ( bis-β-hydroxyterephthalate ) can be  synthesized by the esterification प्रतिक्रिया between terephthalic  acid and ethylene glycol with water as a byproduct , or by transesterification reaction between ethylene glycol and dimethyl terephthalate with methanol as a byproduct .
Polymerization is through a  polycondensation प्रतिक्रिया of the monomers ( किया तत्काल  after esterification/transesterification ) with water as the byproduct .
The majority of the world 's PET  उत्पादन is लिये सिंथेटिक मछली ( in  excess of 60 % ) , with bottle production accounting for around 30 % of global demand .
In the context of textile applications , PET is referred to by its common name , `` polyester , '' whereas the  एक्रोनिम  `` PET '' is generally used in relation to packaging .
पॉलिएस्टर makes up परिचय 18 % of संसार पॉलिमर उत्पादन  and is the third-most-produced polymer ; polyethylene ( PE ) and polypropylene ( PP ) are first and second , respectively .
PET consists of polymerized units of the monomer ethylene terephthalate ,  साथ repeating c10h8o4 इकाई  .
PET is  commonly recycled  , and has the number `` 1 '' as its recycling symbol .
Louisiana was admitted to the Union on April 30 , 1812 , and  elects सीनेटरों to वर्ग 2  and Class 3 .
Its current senators are  डेमोक्रेट मरियम landrieu और रिपब्लिकन  David Vitter .
Black pudding  , रक्त खीर or रक्त सॉसेज  is a type of sausage made by cooking blood or dried blood with a filler until it is thick enough to congeal when cooled .
The  डिश exists  in various cultures from Asia to Europe and the Americas .
Pig , cattle , sheep , duck , and goat blood can be used  depending on अलग देशों .
In Europe and the Americas , typical fillers  शामिल मांस , मोटे , suet , ब्रैड  , cornmeal , sweet potato , onion , chestnuts , barley , and oatmeal .
In Spain , Portugal and  एशिया , आलू  is often replaced by rice .
Stakeholder may  refer to:
Stakeholder ( corporate ) , a person , group , organization , member or system who affects  or can be प्रभावित by an संगठन 's क्रियाएँ
Stakeholder , an  एंटिटी कि can be  affected by the results of that in which they are said to be stakeholders , i.e. , that in which they have a stake .
प्रोजेक्ट शेयरधारक  , a person , group or organization with an interest in a project
Stakeholder theory ,  a सिद्धान्त कि identifies और मॉडल the समूह  which are stakeholders of a corporation or project
शेयरधारक विश्लेषण  , the process of identifying those affected by a project or event
Stakeholder ( law ) , a third  पार्टी जो temporarily holds  money or property while its owner is still being determined
Jack Smight ( March 9 , 1925 - September 1 ,  2003 ) थी an अमरीकी थिएटर और  film director .
Smight was born in Minneapolis , Minnesota and went to  स्कूल साथ भविष्य कर्ता  Peter Graves .
His film credits include The Traveling Executioner , Rabbit , Run , Loving Couples , Midway , Harper , Airport 1975 , Damnation Alley and the  एमी पुरस्कार -winning एडी , as खूब as अनेक एपीसोड of टेलीविज़न  series such as The Twilight Zone and The Alfred Hitchcock Hour .
He also directed the 1960 Broadway play The 49th Cousin and  रचित the म्यूज़िक  for the film adaption of Roll of Thunder Hear My Cry .
Smight died from  कर्कट in लॉस एंजिल्स  , California .
Dmitri Ivanovich  mendeleev ( ; 8 फ़रवरी 1834 – 2 फ़रवरी  1907 O.S . 27 January 1834 – 20 January 1907 ) was a Russian chemist and inventor .
He formulated the Periodic Law , created  उसके अपना संस्करण of the आवधिक तालिका of तत्व , और  used it to correct the properties of some already discovered elements and also to predict the properties of elements yet to be discovered !
modesto ( स्पेनी लिये `` modest '' ) , officially the  City of Modesto , is the county seat and largest city of Stanislaus County , California , United States .
With a population of approximately 201,165 at  the 2010 जनसांख्यिकी , modesto बाँधने  as the 18th largest city in the state of California .
The Modesto Census County Division , which includes the cities of Ceres and  riverbank , रै a जनसांख्यिकी of 312,842  as of 2010 .
Modesto is located in the central valley area of Northern California , 90 miles north of Fresno , 92 miles east of San Francisco , 68 miles south of the  राज्य पूंजी of sacramento , 66 मील वेस्ट of yosemite नेशनल पार्क , और 24 मील दक्षिण of स्टॉकटन  .
Modesto , a 29-time Tree  नगर यूएसए honoree , is घिरी  by rich farmland , lending to a ranking for the county as 6th among all California counties in farm production .
Led by milk , almonds , chickens , walnuts , and corn silage , the county grossed nearly $ 3.1  अरब in agricultural उत्पादन  in 2011 .
Modesto was immortalized in the 1973 George Lucas film  अमरीकी  Graffiti .
the पुरस्कार जीतना फिल्मी captured the स्पिरिट of `` cruising '' और  friendship on 10th and 11th Streets in 1962 and led to the revival of 1950 's nostalgia that included the TV show Happy Days and the other spin-offs .
Ron Howard , Harrison Ford and  रिचर्ड dreyfuss स्ट्रक्चर in the फिल्मी  .
The soundtrack was a  विशाल कामयाबी  .
Director George Lucas is a  native  of Modesto , graduating from Downey High School in 1962 .
The Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index for 2011 , which interviews 1,000 participants daily and asks individuals to assess their jobs ,  finances , शारीरिक स्वास्थ्य  , emotional state of mind and communities , ranked Modesto 126 out of the 190 cities surveyed .
In December 2009 , Forbes ranked Modesto 48th out of 100 among ``  बेहतरीन bang-for-the-buck शहरों  '' .
In this ranking , Modesto ranked 8th  in आवास affordability  and travel time but also ranked 86th in job forecast growth and 99th in foreclosures .
Independence Day , commonly known as the Fourth of July , is a federal holiday in the United States commemorating the adoption of the Declaration of Independence on July 4 , 1776 , declaring independence from the  किंगडम of ग्रेट ब्रिटेन  .
Independence Day is commonly associated with fireworks , parades , barbecues , carnivals , fairs , picnics , concerts , baseball games , family reunions , and political speeches  और ceremonies , in जोड  to various other public and private events celebrating the history , government , and traditions of the United States .
Independence Day is  the नेशनल दिन  of the United States .
A gender symbol denotes the sex of an  सजीव or characterizes an एजेंट by लिंग  .
The two standard gender symbols denoting male ♂ and female ♀ are derived from astrological symbols , denoting the classical planets Mars  और शुक्र , क्रमशः  .
These symbols have been in use since the Renaissance also denoting elements in  alchemy , specifically the धातुओं  iron and copper .
They were first used to denote the effective gender of  पौधे ( i.e . sex of व्यक्तिगत in a दिए crossbreed , चूंकि सबसे पौधे हैं hermaphroditic  ) by Carolus Linnaeus in 1751 .
a leasehold एस्टेट is an स्वामित्व of a अस्थाई सही to  hold land or property in which a lessee or a tenant holds rights of real property by some form of title from a lessor or landlord .
Although a tenant does hold rights  to रियल प्रॉपर्टी , a leasehold  estate is typically considered personal property .
Leasehold is a form of land tenure or property  कार्यकाल जहाँ एक पार्टी खरीदता the सही to occupy जमीन  or a building for a given length of time .
As lease is a legal  एस्टेट  , leasehold estate can be bought and sold on the open market .
A leasehold thus differs from a freehold or fee simple where the ownership of a property is purchased outright  और thereafter आयोजित लिये an अनिर्धार्य  length of time , and also differs from a tenancy where a property is let ( rented ) on a periodic basis such as weekly or monthly .
Until the end of the lease period  ( प्रायः measured in दशकों or सदियां ; a 99 साल पट्टे is काफी  common ) the leaseholder has the right to remain in occupation as an assured tenant paying an agreed rent to the owner .
Terms of  the अनुबंध हैं contained in a  lease , which has elements of contract and property law intertwined .
the पद एस्टेट  for years may occasionally be used .
This refers to a leasehold estate  लिये कोई  specific period of time ( the word `` years '' is misleading ) .
An estate for years is not  automatically नवीनीकृत  .
Colloquially , `` lease '' and `` leasing `` are often a formalization of a longer , specific  काल as compared साथ a  `` rental '' that created a tenancy at will , terminable or renewable at the end of a short period .
Olivia ( also known as Welcome to the World of the Pig  ओलिविया ) is a british-american children 's एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न  series produced by media company Chorion and based on Ian Falconer 's books .
It is  देखी on उपनाम jr.  in the US , Milkshake !
, Nick Jr. in the UK and Ireland , and Disney Junior in Latin America and Brazil ,  treehouse tv in कनाडा  .
The  दिखाएँ रै जीती a चांदी अभिभावक  ' Choice Award for its positive story lines and characters .
Location of Panama between  प्रशांत (  bottom ) and Caribbean ( top ) , with canal at top center
The Panama Canal ( ) is a ship canal in Panama that connects the Atlantic  समंदर ( via the caribbean समुद्र  ) to the Pacific Ocean .
The canal cuts across the Isthmus of  पनामा और is a  key conduit for international maritime trade .
There  हैं  locks at each end to lift ships up to Gatun Lake ( above sea-level ) .
gatun झील थी  created to reduce the amount of work required for the canal .
The current locks  हैं  wide .
A third , wider  लेन  of locks is being built .
France began work on the canal in 1881 , but had to stop because of engineering  समस्याएं और ऊँची मृत्यु  due to disease .
The United States ( US ) later took over the project and took a decade to complete the canal in 1914 , enabling ships to avoid the lengthy Cape  सींग रूट around the southernmost  tip of South America ( via the Drake Passage ) or to navigate the Strait of Magellan .
One of the largest and most difficult engineering projects ever undertaken , the Panama Canal shortcut made it possible  लिये जहाजों to सफर between the अटलांटिक और प्रशांत महासागर  in half the time previously required .
The shorter , faster , safer route to the US West Coast and to nations in  और साथ the प्रशांत समंदर अनुमत those स्थान to become  more integrated with the world economy .
During this time , ownership of the territory that is now the Panama  कनाल थी पहला कोलम्बियाई , तब फ्रेंच , और तब  American ; the United States completed the construction .
The  कनाल थी  taken over in 1999 by the Panamanian government , as long planned .
Annual traffic has risen from about 1,000 ships  जब the कनाल  opened in 1914 , to 14,702 vessels in 2008 , the latter measuring a total of 309.6 million Panama Canal/Universal Measurement System ( PC/UMS ) tons .
By 2008 , more than 815,000 vessels had passed through the canal , many of them much larger than the original  planners could have  envisioned ; the largest ships that can transit the canal today are called Panamax .
the अमरीकी समाज of सिविल इंजीनियर्स  has named the Panama Canal one of the seven wonders of the modern world .
बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन ( अप्रैल 17 , 1790 ) थी  one of the Founding Fathers of the United States .
A noted polymath , Franklin was a leading author , printer , political theorist , politician , postmaster , scientist , musician , inventor , satirist ,  नागरिक activist , statesman  , and diplomat .
As a scientist , he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and the history of physics for his  discoveries और theories regarding विद्युत  .
He invented the lightning rod , bifocals , the Franklin stove , a  carriage ओडोमीटर , और the  glass 'armonica ' .
He facilitated  अनेक नागरिक संगठन ,  including a fire department and a university .
Franklin earned the title of `` The First American '' for his early and indefatigable campaigning for  औपनिवेशिक एकता ; as an लेखक और प्रवक्ता in लंदन लिये अनेक colonies  , then as the first United States Ambassador to France , he exemplified the emerging American nation .
फ्रैंकलिन थी foundational in धमक the अमरीकी ethos as a विवाह of the व्यावहारिक मान  of thrift , hard work , education , community spirit , self-governing institutions , and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious , with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment .
in the शब्द of इतिहासकार हेनरी स्टील commager , ``  In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its defects , the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat . ''
To Walter Isaacson , this makes Franklin `` the most accomplished  अमरीकी of उसके आयु और the सबसे influential  in inventing the type of society America would become . ''
Franklin , always proud of his working class roots , became a successful newspaper editor and printer in Philadelphia , the leading  नगर in the colonies  .
He was also partners with William Goddard and Joseph Galloway the three of whom published the  पेन्सिलवेनिया वृत्तान्त , a समाचारपत्र  that was known for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of the British monarchy in the American colonies .
He became wealthy publishing Poor  रिचर्ड 's almanack और the  Pennsylvania Gazette .
फ्रैंकलिन gained अंतरराष्ट्रीय renown  as a scientist for his famous experiments in electricity and for his many inventions , especially the lightning rod .
He played a major role in establishing the  विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया  and was elected the first president of the American Philosophical Society .
Franklin became a national  नायिका in अमेरिका जब he पथप्रदर्शन the प्रयत्न  to have Parliament repeal the unpopular Stamp Act .
An accomplished diplomat , he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and was a major figure in the  विकास of धनात्मक franco-american संबंध  .
For many years he was the British postmaster for the colonies , which  सक्रिय उसे to नियत up the पहला नेशनल  communications network .
He was active in community affairs ,  औपनिवेशिक और राज्य राजनीती  , as well as national and international affairs .
From 1785 to 1788 , he  परोसा  as governor of Pennsylvania .
Toward the end of his  जीवन , he freed उसके  slaves and became one of the most prominent abolitionists .
His colorful life and legacy of  वैज्ञानिक और राजनैतिक उपलब्धि , और औकात  as one of America 's most influential Founding Fathers , have seen Franklin honored on coinage and money ; warships ; the names of many towns , counties , educational institutions , namesakes , and companies ; and more than two centuries after his death , countless cultural references .
Criminal Minds is an American police  प्रक्रियात्मक टेलीविज़न  program that premiered September 22 , 2005 , on CBS .
The series follows a team of profilers from  the एफबीआई 's  Behavioral Analysis Unit ( BAU ) based in Quantico , Virginia .
The BAU  is भाग of the  FBI National Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime .
The show differs from many  प्रक्रियात्मक dramas by focusing on प्रोफाइलिंग  the criminal , rather than the crime itself .
The show is produced by The Mark Gordon Company in association with CBS Television Studios ( originally Paramount Network Television then CBS Paramount Network  टेलीविज़न ) और एबीसी studios ( originally touchstone  Television ) .
CBS announced in October 2009 that Legacy Interactive  होता develop a वीडियो खेल आधारित on  the show .
The game  होता आवश्यकता खिलाड़ी to जाँचें  crime scenes for clues to help solve murder mysteries .
The interactive puzzle game was released in 2012 , but did not feature any of the voices of the show 's cast , nor was  the डाल  involved with the project .
On  कूच 14 , 2012 , सीबीएस नवीनीकृत  Criminal Minds for an eighth season , which premiered on September 26 , 2012 .
`` Heart-Shaped Box '' is a song by the American grunge band Nirvana ,  लिखा by  vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain .
The song was released as the first  सिंगल इससे the  group 's third and final studio album , In Utero , in 1993 .
It was one of two songs from the album mixed by Scott  litt in अनुक्रम to augment  the original production by producer Steve Albini .
While Nirvana 's label DGC Records did not release a physical single for sale in the United States , `` Heart-Shaped Box '' received much American radio airplay , reaching number one on  the  Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart .
The  अंतरराष्ट्रीय रिलीज  of the single reached number five on the UK Singles Chart .
The song 's music video , directed by Anton Corbijn ,  garnered नाजुक plaudits  .
The orbital speed of a body , generally a planet , a natural satellite , an artificial satellite , or a multiple  स्टार , is the गति at जिससे it orbits around the barycenter of a प्रणाली  , usually around a more massive body .
It can be used to refer to either the mean orbital speed , the average speed as it completes an orbit , or  instantaneous कक्षीय गति , the गति at  a particular point in its orbit .
The orbital speed at any position in the orbit can be  computed इससे the अलहदा to the सेंट्रल देह at कि स्थिति , और the विशिष्ट  orbital energy , which is independent of position : the kinetic energy is the total energy minus the potential energy .
भूरा राजमहल  Interior and Atrium
Brown Palace Hotel is the  second-oldest  operating hotel in Denver , Colorado and is one of the first atrium-style hotel ever built .
It is now operated by  कोरम होटल  and Resorts .
It was built in 1892 , one year later than the  ऑक्सफोर्ड होटल  .
It was named for its original owner , Henry C. Brown , and was designed with  इसके विषम triangular आकार by वास्तु फ़्रैंक  Edbrooke .
The hotel is located at 321 17th St , Denver , CO between 17th Street , Broadway and Tremont Street/Pl  in  downtown Denver behind the Republic Plaza .
The main entrance door  is  on Tremont Street .
DVD-Video is a consumer video format used to store digital video on DVD discs , and is  फिलहाल the प्रबल उपभोक्ता वीडियो स्वरूप in एशिया , उत्तर अमेरिका , यूरोपीय , और ऑस्ट्रेलिया  .
Discs using the DVD-Video specification require a DVD drive and an H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 decoder ( e.g. , a DVD player , or a computer DVD drive  साथ a तन्त्र  DVD player ) .
वाणिज्यिक dvd फिल्मों हैं एनकोडेड using a संयोजन  of H.262/MPEG-2 Part 2 compressed video and audio of varying formats ( often multi-channel formats as described below ) .
typically , the आंकड़ा रेट लिये dvd  movies ranges from 3 Mbit/s to 9.5 Mbit/s , and the bit rate is usually adaptive .
It was  पहला  available for retail around 1997 .
The DVD-Video  specification थी निर्मित by dvd फ़ोरम और can be प्राप्त  from DVD Format/Logo Licensing Corporation for a fee of $ 5,000 .
The specification is not publicly available , because every subscriber must sign  a non-disclosure अनुबंध  .
Certain information in the DVD  किताब is मालिकाना  and confidential .
The nautical mile ( symbol M , NM or nmi ) is a unit of length that is about one minute of arc of latitude  measured साथ कोई मध्याह्न , or परिचय एक मिनट of चाप  of longitude at the equator .
By international agreement it  रै महरूम नियत  at 1,852 metres exactly ( about 6,076 feet ) .
It is a non- SI unit ( although accepted for use in the International System of Units by the BIPM  ) प्रयुक्त विशेषकर by  navigators in the shipping and aviation industries , and also in polar exploration .
It is commonly used in international law and treaties ,  विशेषकर regarding the  limits of territorial waters .
It developed from the sea mile and  the सम्बन्धित  geographical mile .
The nautical mile remains in use by sea and air navigators worldwide because of its convenience  जब working साथ चार्ट .
Most nautical charts use the Mercator projection whose scale varies by about a factor of six from the equator to 80° latitude , so charts covering  विशाल क्षेत्रों can नहीं उपयोग a सिंगल रैखिक स्केल  .
The nautical mile is nearly equal to a minute of latitude on a chart , so a distance measured with a chart divider can be roughly converted to nautical miles  using the चार्ट  's latitude scale .
Shippensburg is a borough in  कम्बरलैंड और फ्रैंकलिन काउंटी in  the U.S. state of Pennsylvania .
Settled in 1730 ,  shippensburg झूठ in the कम्बरलैंड  Valley , 41 miles ( 66 km ) west-southwest of Harrisburg , and is part of the Harrisburg– Carlisle Metropolitan Statistical Area .
In 1900 , 3,228 people lived there ; in 1910 , 3,457 ; and in 1940 , 5,244  लोगों जिया  there .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  5,492 at the 2010 census .
Shippensburg was  incorporated as a बरो on  January 21 , 1819 .
In the past , there were furniture  कारखानों ,  engine and pump works , and other industrial works located within the town .
Shippensburg is also the home of The  beistle कम्पनी , the oldest और largest  manufacturer of decorations and party goods , which sells its distinctive honeycomb paper decorations worldwide .
It is also the location of Pague and  fegan , the oldest  continuously operated hardware store in Pennsylvania .
In May 2012 , Volvo Construction Equipment began a $ 100  लाख विस्तार प्रोजेक्ट to लाओ  its American headquarters to Shippensburg .
Shippensburg  is भी घर to shippensburg  University of Pennsylvania , one of 14 universities of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education .
Yearly the last full week of July , the Shippensburg Community Fair  is  held .
Begun in 1958 , the fair bills itself as  पेन्सिलवेनिया 's largest  bi-county fair .
The fair includes agricultural exhibits ,  a शिल्प दिखाएँ , खाना विक्रेता , और  carnival rides amongst other things .
Every  गर्मियाँ on the पिछला शनिवार of अगस्त , shippensburg  holds the Corn Festival , an event that brings regional artisans and vendors to operate stands downtown .
The  शहर  is closed to traffic for at least 5 blocks for most of the day .
Average attendance at the festival is  अनुमानित at 60,000  - 70,000 each year .
Black hairy tongue ( BHT , also termed lingua villosa nigra ) refers to a condition of the tongue where the filiform papillae elongate with black  or भूरा discoloration , giving a ब्लैक  and hairy appearance .
The  रूप may  be alarming , but it is a harmless condition .
Predisposing factors include smoking , xerostomia ( dry mouth ) , soft  आहार , ग़रीब मौखिक hygiene और निश्चित medications  .
प्रबन्धन is by improving  oral hygiene , especially scraping or brushing the tongue .
The IEEE 1394 interface is a  सीरियल बस इंटरफ़ेस मानक लिये  high-speed communications and isochronous real-time data transfer .
It was developed in the late 1980s and early 1990s  by ठहराना , जो  called it FireWire .
The 1394 interface is  comparable to usb , और प्रायः those दो technologies  are considered together , though USB has more market share .
Apple  पहला शामिल  FireWire in some of its 1999 models , and most Apple computers since the year 2000 have included FireWire ports , though , as of 2013 , nothing beyond the 800 version ( IEEE-1394b ) .
The  इंटरफ़ेस is भी ज्ञात by  the brand i.LINK ( Sony ) , and Lynx ( Texas Instruments ) .
IEEE 1394 replaced parallel SCSI in many applications , because of  निम्नतर क्रियान्वयन  costs and a simplified , more adaptable cabling system .
The 1394  मानक भी defines  a backplane interface , though this is not as widely used .
IEEE 1394 is the High-Definition Audio-Video Network Alliance ( HANA ) standard connection  इंटरफ़ेस लिये a/v ( audio/visual ) घटक संचार और कंट्रोल  .
FireWire is also available in wireless , fiber optic , and  समाक्षीय संस्करण using the  isochronous protocols .
Stephen `` Stevie '' Ray  vaughan ( अक्तूबर 3 , 1954  – August 27 , 1990 ) was an American guitarist , singer-songwriter , and record producer .
Often referred to by his  आद्याक्षर srv , vaughan is बेहतरीन ज्ञात as a founding  member and leader of Double Trouble .
Together with drummer Chris Layton and  bassist टॉमी शैनन  , they ignited the blues revival of the 1980s .
With a career  spanning सात सालो , vaughan और दोगुना  Trouble consistently sold out concerts while their albums frequently went gold .
He was born and raised in Dallas , Texas , and for a short period of time  जिया in ग्राहम , टेक्सास  .
As the younger brother of Jimmie Vaughan , Vaughan started playing the guitar at age seven and formed several bands  कि occasionally performed in  local nightclubs .
At age 17 , he dropped out of high school and moved to Austin to further  pursue उसके musical करियर , joining समूह  such as Krackerjack , the Nightcrawlers , and the Cobras .
In 1977 , he formed Triple Threat Revue , a band that eventually  विकसित into दोगुना ट्रबल और regularly performed  around Austin .
In 1982 , Vaughan and Double Trouble performed at  the montreux जैज़ पर्व in स्विट्ज़रलैंड , catching  the attention of musicians David Bowie and Jackson Browne .
Bowie  पूछा vaughan to खेल on उसके आगामी स्टुडियो एल्बम let  's Dance , while Browne offered the band free use of his personal studio in Los Angeles to record an album .
In March 1983 , Vaughan and Double Trouble were signed to Epic Records by veteran record producer  जॉन हैमंड sr. और released उनके डेब्यू एल्बम , टेक्सास बाढ़  in June of that year .
After successful touring , the group released the albums  , could n't स्टैंड the मौसम ( 1984  ) and Soul to Soul ( 1985 ) , the latter of which featured new keyboardist Reese Wynans .
Although his career had progressed successfully , Vaughan checked into a rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta , Georgia to give up a cocaine  और दारू आदत और लौटे to touring  with the band .
In June 1989 , In Step was  released और अर्जित उन्हें  a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Blues Performance .
On August 27 , 1990 , Vaughan was killed in a helicopter crash following a  प्रदर्शन in ईस्ट ट्रॉय , विस्कॉन्सिन  .
vaughan 's uniquely  eclectic yet intense style was derived from a variety of musical genres .
He was influenced by blues musicians including Albert King , Freddie King , Otis Rush , and Muddy  waters , और चट्टान guitarists  such as Jimi Hendrix and Lonnie Mack .
His guitar playing  reflected the क्लासिक ब्लूज़ और  pentatonic scales .
He has received wide critical recognition  लिये उसके गिटार playing , रैंकिंग  at # 6 on Rolling Stones list of `` 100 Greatest Guitarists '' in 2011 .
He was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame  in 2000 और a मेमोरियल प्रतिमा थी erected in ऑस्टिन  's Auditorium Shores park .
स्टीवी रे vaughan is  widely considered to be one of the greatest musicians to come from the state of Texas .
GigE  redirects  here .
For the  कैमरा प्रोटोकॉल  , see GigE vision .
In computer networking , gigabit Ethernet ( GbE or 1 GigE ) is a term describing  विभिन्न technologies लिये transmitting ईथरनेट फ्रेम्स  at a rate of a gigabit per second ( 1,000,000,000 bits per second ) , as defined by the IEEE 802.3-2008 standard .
It came into use beginning in 1999 , gradually supplanting Fast Ethernet in wired local networks , where it  performed considerably  faster .
The cables and equipment are very similar to previous standards and were very common and  किफायती by 2010  .
Half-duplex gigabit links connected through  hubs हैं अनुमत by the specification , लकिन full-duplex  usage with switches is much more common .
Intel PRO/1000 GT PCI  संजाल इंटरफ़ेस  card
The main components of a  stamp:
1 .  चित्र
2 .  perforations
3 .  denomination
4 .  देश  name
A  postage स्टैम्प is a छोटी टुकड़ा  of paper that is purchased and displayed on an item of mail as evidence of payment of postage .
Typically , stamps are made from special paper , with a national designation and  denomination ( दाम ) on the फेस , और a गम चिपकने  on the reverse side .
Postage stamps are purchased from a postal administration or other authorized vendor and are used to pay for the costs involved in moving mail as well as  अन्य कारोबार necessities ऐसे as बीमे और पंजीकरण  .
The stamp’s shape is usually that of a small rectangle of varying proportions , though  त्रिकोण or अन्य आकार हैं occasionally  used .
The stamp is affixed to an envelope  or अन्य डाक कवर ( i.e. , पैकेट , बक्सा ,  mailing cylinder ) that the customer wishes to send .
The item is then processed by the postal system , where a postmark , sometimes known as a  रद्दीकरण चिह्नित , is प्रायः लागू over the स्टैम्प  and cover ; this procedure marks the stamp as used , which prevents its reuse .
The postmark indicates the date and point  of  origin of the mailing .
The mailed item is then delivered to the address that the  ग्राहक  has applied to the envelope or cover .
postage stamps  have facilitated the delivery of mail since the 1840s .
Before this time , ink and hand-stamps ( hence the word 'stamp ' ) , usually made from wood or cork  , यहूद प्रायः प्रयुक्त to फ़्रैंक the मेल और confirm  the payment of postage .
The first adhesive postage stamp , commonly referred to as  the पैनी ब्लैक , थी जारी in the संयुक्त किंगडम  in 1840 .
The invention of the stamp was a part of the attempt to reform and improve the postal system in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland , which in the early 19th  सदी थी in अस्तव्यस्तता  and rife with corruption .
There are varying accounts of the inventor or  आविष्कारक of the स्टैम्प  .
Before the introduction of postage stamps , mail in the UK was paid  लिये by the प्राप्तकर्ता , a प्रणाली कि थी संबद्ध साथ an irresolvable प्रॉब्लम  : the costs of delivering mail were not recoverable by the postal service when recipients were unable or unwilling to pay for delivered items , and senders had no incentive to restrict the number , size , or weight of items sent , whether or not they would ultimately be paid for .
The  postage स्टैम्प resolved इस समस्या in a सरल और सुरुचिपूर्ण manner , साथ the अतिरिक्त  benefit of room for an element of beauty to be introduced .
Later related  आविष्कारों शामिल डाक स्टेशनरी ऐसे as prepaid-postage लिफाफे , पोस्ट ताश , lettercards  , aerogrammes and wrappers , postage meters , and , more recently , specialty boxes and envelopes provided free to the customer by the U.S. postal service for priority or express mailing .
The postage stamp afforded  convenience लिये दोनो the मेलर और डाक  officials , more efficiently recovered costs for the postal service , and ultimately resulted in a better , faster postal system .
साथ the conveniences stamps  offered , their use resulted in greatly increased mailings during the 19th and 20th centuries .
Postage stamps during this era were the most popular way of paying for mail , but by the end of the  20th सदी यहूद rapidly होने आत by the उपयोग of metered postage  and bulk mailing by businesses . )
The same result with  आदर to संचार by निजी पार्टियों occurred over the पिछला दशक of the 20th  century and the first decade of the 21st due to declining cost of long distance telephone communications and the development and explosive spread of electronic mailing ( `` e-mail '' via the Internet ) and bill paying systems had .
As postage stamps with  उनके engraved  imagery began to appear on a widespread basis , historians and collectors began to take notice .
The study of postage stamps and their  उपयोग is referred to as  philately .
Stamp collecting can be both a hobby and a form of historical study and reference , as government-issued postage stamps and their  mailing प्रणालियों have सदा महरूम  involved with the history of nations .
The University of  अलबामा at बर्मिंघम ( uab ) is a पब्लिक विश्वविद्यालयों  in Birmingham in the U.S. state of Alabama .
Developing from an extension center established in  1936 , the संस्था became an autonomous  institution in 1969 and is today one of three institutions in the University of Alabama System .
UAB offers over 140 programs of study in 12 academic divisions leading to bachelor 's , master 's , doctoral , and professional degrees in the social and behavioral sciences , the liberal arts , business , education , engineering , and  health-related फ़ील्ड ऐसे as आयुर्विज्ञान , dentistry , optometry , नर्सिंग , और पब्लिक स्वास्थ्य  .
The school is highly renowned for its  चिकित्सा शोध और प्राकृतिक  sciences programs .
The UAB Health System , one of the largest academic medical  centers in the संयुक्त राज्य  , is affiliated with the university .
UAB Hospital sponsors residency programs in various medical  specialties , सहित  internal medicine , neurology , surgery , radiology , and anesthesiology .
UAB Hospital is the only ACS verified Level I trauma  बीच in अलबामा , as रेटेड by the अमरीकी  College of Surgeons Trauma Program .
UAB is the state 's largest employer , with more than 18,000 faculty and  स्टाफ और over 53,000 कार्य at  the university and in the health system .
An estimated 10 percent of the jobs in the Birmingham-Hoover Metropolitan Area  और 1 in 33 कार्य in the राज्य  of Alabama are directly or indirectly related to UAB .
The university 's  overall सालाना आर्थिक प्रभाव थी अनुमानित to  be $ 4.6 billion in 2010 .
In the fall of 2012 , the University of Alabama at Birmingham enrolled 17,999 students from more than  110 देशों  , including 1,605 freshmen .
There are plans to commence with an ``  आक्रामक '' विकास in  enrollment at UAB .
The  वर्तमान uab अध्यक्ष  is Dr. Ray L. Watts .
Tofu , also called bean  दही , is a खाना बना by coagulating  soy juice and then pressing the resulting curds into soft white blocks .
It is a component in many  ईस्ट एशियाई और southeast  Asian cuisines .
There are many different varieties of tofu , including fresh tofu and  टोफू कि रै महरूम processed  in some way .
Tofu has a subtle flavor and can be used in  savory और मीठी  dishes .
It is often seasoned  or marinated  to suit the dish .
Tofu  originated in प्राचीन  China some 2,000 years ago .
चाइनीज लेजेंड ascribes  its invention to prince Liu An ( Chinese : 劉安 Liú Ān , 179–122 BC ) .
Tofu and its production technique  यहूद introduced into कोरियाई और  then Japan during the Nara period .
It  स्प्रेड into अन्य  parts of East Asia as well .
This spread likely coincided with the spread of Buddhism because it is an important source of  प्रोटीन in  the vegetarian diet of East Asian Buddhism .
Li Shizhen in the  मिंग राजवंश वर्णित  a method of making tofu in Bencao Gangmu .
Tofu has a low calorie  गिनती , अपेक्षाकृत विशाल amounts  of protein , and little fat .
It is high in iron and depending on  the coagulant प्रयुक्त in निर्माण ,  may also be high in calcium and/or magnesium .
Bubbles ( born 1983 ) is a common chimpanzee , known for being the one-time pet of American recording artist Michael  जैक्सन , जो खरीदा the primate इससे a टेक्सास  research facility in the early 1980s .
The animal was a  बारंबार सफर साथी to the सिंगर , जिनकी  attachment to the animal led to media mockery and , among other factors , to a public perception of Jackson as an eccentric .
दौरान the  Bad World Tour , for example , Jackson brought Bubbles with him to Japan , where they both drank tea with the mayor of Osaka .
Bubbles was initially kept at the Jackson family 's home in  encino , लॉस एंजिल्स , लकिन थी स्थानांतरित to neverland  Ranch in 1988 .
There , he slept in a crib in Jackson 's  बेडरूम , प्रयुक्त the सिंगर 's प्रसाधन , और  ate candy in the Neverland movie theater .
In 2003 the public learned that , like all captive chimpanzees ,  बुलबुले था matured into a विशाल और आक्रामक वयस्क chimp  unsuitable as a companion animal .
He was sent to a California animal trainer , where  he थी reported to have  attempted suicide .
When the trainer shut down his operation in 2004 , Bubbles was moved to  the बीच लिये ग्रेट apes , a अभयारण्य in wauchula  , Florida , where he has lived since 2005 .
चिंतन हैं an अंग्रेज़ी  rock band from Teignmouth , Devon , which formed in 1994 .
The band consists of school friends Matthew Bellamy ( lead vocals , lead guitar , piano , keyboards , keytar ) , Christopher Wolstenholme ( bass , vocals , keyboards , rhythm guitar , harmonica ) and Dominic Howard ( drums ,  percussion , synthesisers  , sampling ) .
Since the release of their 2006 album Black Holes and  खुलासे , keyboardist और percussionist  Morgan Nicholls has performed live with the band .
Muse are known for their energetic and extravagant live performances and their fusion of many music genres , including space rock ,  प्रगतिशील चट्टान , वैकल्पिक  rock , heavy metal , classical music and electronica .
Muse have released six studio albums : Showbiz ( 1999 ) , Origin of Symmetry (  2001 ) , absolution ( 2003 ) , ब्लैक छेद और  Revelations ( 2006 ) , The Resistance ( 2009 ) and The 2nd Law ( 2012 ) .
They have also issued three live albums , Hullabaloo Soundtrack ( 2002 ) , which is also a compilation of B-sides , Absolution Tour ( 2005 ) , and HAARP ( 2008 ) , which documents the band 's performances at  वेम्बली  Stadium in 2007 .
Black Holes and Revelations earned the band a Mercury Prize nomination and a third place finish in the NME Albums of  the साल सूची लिये 2006  .
Muse have also won a collection of music awards throughout their history , including five MTV Europe Music Awards , six Q Awards , eight NME Awards ,  दो ब्रिट पुरस्कार —winning `` बेहतरीन अंग्रेजों सजीव अधिनियम '' twice  , an MTV Video Music Award , four Kerrang !
Awards and an American Music  पुरस्कार  .
They were also nominated for five Grammy  पुरस्कार , of जिससे वे जीती  Best Rock Album , for their fifth studio album The Resistance ( 2009 ) .
Muse  have बेची over 15  million albums worldwide .
Bloemfontein  ( , ; डच लिये `` फव्वारा of पुष्प '' ) is the पूंजी नगर of the फ़्री राज्य प्रांत of दक्षिण  Africa ; and , as the judicial capital of the nation , one of South Africa 's three national capitals – the other two being Cape Town , the legislative capital , and Pretoria , the administrative capital .
Bloemfontein is popularly and  poetically ज्ञात as ``  the city of roses `` , owing to the abundance of these flowers and the annual rose festival held there .
The city 's Sesotho name is Mangaung , meaning `` place of cheetahs `` and it  रै महरूम शामिल in the mangaung लोकल नगरपालिका  since 2000 .
Bloemfontein is  situated on शुष्क घासभूमि  at , at an altitude of above sea level .
The city is home to 369,568 residents , while the Mangaung Local  नगरपालिका  has a population of 645,455 .
Where  do we आइये  From ?
What  हैं  We ?
Where  हैं we  Going ?
One of Post-Impressionist Paul Gauguin  's सबसे प्रसिद्ध  paintings .
The meaning of life is a philosophical question concerning the  significance of जीवन or अस्तित्व  in general .
It can also be expressed in  अलग फ़ॉर्म , ऐसे as ``  Why are we here ? `` , `` What is life all about ? `` , and `` What is the purpose of existence ? ''
It has  महरूम the विषय of much philosophical  , scientific , and theological speculation throughout history .
There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many different  सांस्कृतिक और वैचारिक  backgrounds .
The meaning of life is in the philosophical and religious conceptions of existence ,  सोशल ties , चेतना , और सुख , और सीमायें on अनेक अन्य मुद्दे , ऐसे as सांकेतिक  meaning , ontology , value , purpose , ethics , good and evil , free will , the existence of one or multiple Gods , conceptions of God , the soul , and the afterlife .
Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe ,  exploring the कॉन्टेक्स्ट और पैरामीटर्स concerning  the 'how ' of life .
Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of  well-being और a सम्बन्धित धारणा  of morality .
An alternative , humanistic approach poses the question `` What is  the अर्थ  of my life ? ''
The value of the question pertaining to the purpose of life may coincide with the  उपलब्धि of परम वास्तविकता , or a अहसास of oneness , or भी  a feeling of sacredness .
Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane also  provides the आवाज़ें of पीटर griffin , stewie  Griffin , Brian Griffin , and Glenn Quagmire .
Family Guy is an American animated sitcom that features five main voice  अभिनेताओं , और numerous नियमित डाल और पुनरावर्ती  guest stars .
The principal voice cast consists of show creator Seth MacFarlane , Alex Borstein  , सेठ ग्रीन , mila kunis ( जो replaced  Lacey Chabert after the first season ) and Mike Henry and now , the new actor Beau Osborne .
Recurring voice actors include Patrick Warburton , Adam West , John G. Brennan , Nicole Sullivan and Jennifer Tilly , and repeat guest stars include Phyllis  diller , चार्ल्स  Durning , Rush Limbaugh , and Phil LaMarr .
Many cast members provide voices for  अनेक वर्ण  .
The voice actors , in portraying the various character personalities on the show ,  चित्रण प्रेरणा इससे  celebrities and pop culture .
Family Guy characters  have महरूम निभाई by अधिक than एक कर्ता  , after members of the show left the series or had conflicting obligations .
Kunis was nominated for an Annie Award for voicing Meg Griffin in the season 5 episode `` Barely Legal `` and MacFarlane has also won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance and  an एनी पुरस्कार लिये बेहतरीन आवाज़ एक्टिंग in an एनिमेटेड  Television Production , though no other cast member has won an award for their work on the series .
1911  उदाहरण  by Edmund Dulac
`` The Princess and the Pea '' ( ; literal translation : `` The Princess on the Pea '' ) is a literary fairy tale by  hans ईसाई andersen परिचय a यंग  woman whose royal identity is established by a test of her physical sensitivity .
The tale was first published  साथ तीन अन्य by andersen in an inexpensive  booklet on 8 May 1835 in Copenhagen by C.A . Reitzel .
andersen था सुना the स्टोरी as a चाइल्ड , और it संभावित  has its source in folk material , possibly originating from Sweden as it is unknown in the Danish oral tradition .
Neither `` The Princess and the Pea '' nor Andersen  's अन्य किस्से of 1835 यहूद खूब प्राप्त  by Danish critics , who disliked their casual , chatty style , and their lack of morals .
In 1959 `` The Princess and the Pea '' was adapted to the musical stage in a production  पुकारा एकबार upon a गद्दा  starring Carol Burnett .
German Americans ( ) are  नागरिकों of the संयुक्त राज्य जो यहूद either born in  Germany or are of German ancestry .
They  comprise परिचय 50 लाख लोगों , बनाना उन्हें the largest ancestry  group ahead of Irish Americans , African Americans and English Americans .
They  comprise परिचय 1/3 of  the German diaspora all over the world .
None  of the जर्मनी राज्य  had New World colonies .
Not until the 1670s did  the पहला significant समूह of जर्मनी आप्रवासियों  arrive in the British colonies , settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania .
Immigration continued in very  विशाल संख्याएँ  during the 19th century , with some eight million arrivals from Germany .
वे यहूद खींचा by the आकर्षण of जमीन और  religious freedom , and pushed out of Europe by shortages of land and religious or political oppression .
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom ,  अन्य लिये आर्थिक अवसर वृहद than  those in Europe , and others simply for the chance to start fresh in the New World .
The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers who sought out the most productive land , where their  intensive खेती तकनीकों  would pay off .
बाद 1840 , अनेक आए to शहरों  , where `` Germania '' —German-speaking districts—soon emerged .
German Americans established the first  kindergartens in the संयुक्त राज्य , introduced the क्रिसमस पेड़ परंपरा , और originated  popular American foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers .
German American celebrations are held  throughout the देश , एक of the सबसे well-known  being the German-American Steuben Parade in New York City , held every third Saturday in September .
There are also major annual events in Chicago , Cincinnati , Milwaukee , Pittsburgh ,  st. लुई  and other cities .
Like many other immigrants that came to the United States  , an overwhelming क्रमांक  of people of German or partial German descent have essentially become Americanized .
The Preamble to the United States Constitution is a  ब्रैड परिचयात्मक बयान of the संविधान 's आधारभूत  purposes and guiding principles .
It states in general terms , and courts have referred to it as reliable evidence of , the Founding Fathers ' intentions regarding the Constitution 's  अर्थ और कया वे hoped the संविधान होता achieve  as it pertains to all of the people of the United States .
As the phrase , `` we the people '' suggests that the new government originates from the people of the United States and it sets into motion a question as it pertains to that vast population concerning the individual  अधिकारों और समता among सब लोगों ; इस can be देखी सबसे broadly in  the divide between republicanism and social democracy .
The history of the Internet began  साथ the विकास of इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कंप्यूटर  in the 1950s .
The public was first introduced to the concepts that would lead to the Internet when a message was sent over the ARPANet from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock 's laboratory at University of California  , लॉस एंजिल्स ( ucla ) , बाद the दूसरी टुकड़ा of  network equipment was installed at Stanford Research Institute ( SRI ) .
Packet switched networks such as ARPANET , Mark I  at npl in the uk , cyclades , मेरिट संजाल  , Tymnet , and Telenet , were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of protocols .
The ARPANET in particular led to the development of protocols for internetworking ,  in जिससे अनेक पृथक  networks could be joined together into a network of networks .
In 1982 , the Internet protocol suite ( TCP/IP ) was standardized , and consequently , the concept of a world-wide network of  interconnected tcp/ip संजाल , पुकारा the  Internet , was introduced .
Access to the ARPANET was expanded in  1981 जब the नेशनल विज्ञान न्यास ( nsf ) विकसित the कंप्यूटर विज्ञान संजाल ( csnet )  and again in 1986 when NSFNET provided access to supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations .
Commercial Internet service providers ( ISPs ) began  to emerge in the लेट 1980s  and early 1990s .
The ARPANET was  decommissioned in  1990 .
The Internet was  commercialized in 1995 जब nsfnet  was decommissioned , removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic .
Since the mid-1990s , the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture and commerce , including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail , instant  messaging , आवाज़ over अंतरजाल प्रोटोकॉल ( voip ) `` फोन काल्स ''  , two-way interactive video calls , and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums , blogs , social networking , and online shopping sites .
The research and education  जातियाँ continues to develop और उपयोग उन्नत  networks such as NSF 's very high speed Backbone Network Service ( vBNS ) , Internet2 , and National LambdaRail .
Increasing amounts of data are transmitted  at उच्चतर और उच्चतर speeds over रेशा ऑप्टिक संजाल ऑपरेटिंग  at 1-Gbit/s , 10-Gbit/s , or more .
The Internet 's takeover over the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms : it only communicated 1 % of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks  in the साल 1993 , already 51 % by 2000 , और अधिक than 97 % of the telecommunicated सूचना  by 2007 .
Today  the अंतरजाल continues to grow  , driven by ever greater amounts of online information , commerce , entertainment , and social networking .
Southwest Airlines Co. ( ) is a major U.S.  एयरलाइन और the संसार 's largest  low-cost carrier , headquartered in Dallas , Texas .
It  थी स्थापित in  1967 and adopted its current name in 1971 .
the एयरलाइन रै अधिक than 46,000 कर्मचारी  and operates more than 3,400 flights per day .
as  of June 5 , 2011 , it carries the most domestic passengers of any U.S. airline .
As of April 2013 , Southwest Airlines has  अनुसूचित सेवा to 84 गंतव्यों  in 41 states and Puerto Rico .
Southwest Airlines has solely operated Boeing 737s  , मगर लिये a few सालो  in the 1970s and 1980s , when it operated Boeing 727s .
as of अगस्त 2012 , दक्षिणपश्चिम is the largest ऑपरेटर of  the 737 worldwide with over 550 in service , each operating an average of six flights per day .
In May 2011 , the  एयरलाइन acquired airtran एयरवेज़ ,  with integration of the carriers expected to be complete by 2014 .
On March 1 , 2012 , the company was issued a  सिंगल ऑपरेटिंग प्रमाणपत्र  , technically becoming one airline .
Rolling  चट्टान is a 4.6  % abv pale lager launched in 1939 by the Latrobe Brewing Company .
Although founded as  a लोकल बियर in पश्चिमी पेन्सिलवेनिया ,  it was marketed aggressively and eventually became a national product .
The brand was sold to Anheuser-Busch of St. Louis , Missouri , in mid 2006 , which  transferred brewing  operations to New Jersey .
Benedict XVI ( , , ; born Joseph Aloisius Ratzinger on 16  अप्रैल 1927 ) is पोप  emeritus of the Catholic Church .
He  परोसा as पोप  from 2005 to 2013 .
In that position , he was both the leader of the Catholic Church and  sovereign of the वेटिकन नगर  State .
Benedict was elected on 19 April 2005 in a papal conclave ,  मनाये उसके papal उद्घाटन द्रव्यमान on 24 अप्रैल 2005 , और took कब्ज़ा  of his cathedral , the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran , on 7 May 2005 .
Ordained as a priest in 1951 in his native Bavaria , Ratzinger established himself as a highly regarded university theologian by the  लेट 1950s और थी नियुक्त a पूरा  professor in 1958 .
After a long career as an academic , serving as a professor of theology at several German universities—the last being the University of Regensburg , where he served as Vice President of the university in 1976 and 1977—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and  कार्डिनल by पोप पॉल vi in 1977 , an असामान्य प्रमोशन लिये किसी साथ  little pastoral experience .
In 1981 , he settled in Rome when he became Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith , one of  the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण dicasteries of the रोमन  Curia .
From 2002 until his election as pope , he was also Dean of the College of Cardinals , and as such  , the प्राइमस इंटर pares  among the cardinals .
Prior to becoming pope , he was `` a major figure on the Vatican stage for a  क्वार्टर of a सदी '' as `` एक of the सबसे आदरणीय , influential और विवादास्पद सदस्यों of the कॉलेज of कार्डिनल्स  '' ; he had an influence `` second to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions '' as one of Pope John Paul II 's closest confidants .
He was originally a  उदार theologian  , but adopted conservative views after 1968 .
His prolific  कृतियाँ बचाव  traditional Catholic doctrine and values .
During his papacy , Benedict XVI advocated a return to fundamental Christian values to counter the increased  secularisation of अनेक पश्चिमी देशों  .
He views relativism 's denial of  उद्देश्य सच्चाई , और the denial of moral सच्चाई  in particular , as the central problem of the 21st century .
He taught the importance of both the Catholic Church and an understanding of  परमेश्वर 's redemptive  love .
Pope  बेनेडिक्ट भी revived a क्रमांक of परंपराओं  including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position .
He renewed the  संबंध between the कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर और आर्ट , देखने the उपयोग of सौंदर्य as a पाथ  to the sacred , promoted the use of Latin , and reintroduced traditional papal garments , for which reason he was called `` the pope of aesthetics '' .
He has been  वर्णित as `` the प्रमुख  intellectual force in the Church '' since the mid-1980s .
Several of Pope Benedict 's  विद्यार्थी इससे उसके अकादमिक  career are also prominent churchmen today and confidantes of him , notably Christoph Schönborn .
On 11 February 2013 , Pope Benedict announced his resignation in a speech in Latin before the cardinals , citing a ``  कमी of शक्ति of दिमाग  and body '' due to his advanced age .
His  इस्तीफा became प्रभावी  on 28 February 2013 .
He is the first pope to resign since Pope Gregory  बारहवीं in 1415 , और the  first to do so on his own initiative since Pope Celestine V in 1294 .
as पोप emeritus , बेनेडिक्ट retains the  style of His Holiness , and the title of Pope , and will continue to dress in the papal colour of white .
He was succeeded by Pope Francis on 13 March 2013 , and he  स्थानांतरित into the newly संवर मेटर ecclesiae मठ  for his retirement on 2 May 2013..
Pocket stereoscope with  असली  test image .
Used by military to examine stereoscopic pairs of aerial  छायाचित्र  .
View of Boston , c. 1860 ; an early  stereoscopic कार्ड लिये देखने a झाँकी  from nature
Kaiser-Panorama  consisted of a multi-station  viewing apparatus and sets of stereo slides .
Patented by A. Fuhrmann  around 1890  .
Company of ladies  watching stereoscopic छायाचित्र  , painting by Jacob Spoel , before 1868 .
A  बहुत जल्दी चित्रण  of people using a stereoscope .
Stereoscopy ( also called stereoscopics or 3D imaging ) is a technique for creating or enhancing the  भ्रम of गहराई in an चित्र by अर्थात् of stereopsis लिये binocular  vision .
The word stereoscopy derives from the Greek ``  στερεός '' ( stereos ) , `` कड़ , ठोस ''  + `` σκοπέω '' ( skopeō ) , `` to look '' , `` to see '' .
Most stereoscopic methods present two offset images separately to  the बाएँ और  right eye of the viewer .
These two-dimensional images are then combined in the brain to  दे the बोध  of 3D depth .
This technique is distinguished from 3D displays that display an image in three full dimensions , allowing the observer to increase  सूचना परिचय the 3-dimensional वस्तुएँ होने प्रदर्शित by सिर  and eye movements .
John Adams ( October 30 , 1735 ( O.S . October 19 , 1735 ) – July 4 ,  1826 ) थी the दूसरी अध्यक्ष of the संयुक्त  States ( 1797–1801 ) , having earlier served as the first vice president of the United States .
An American Founding  पिता , he थी a statesman , राजनयिक  , and a leading advocate of American independence from Great Britain .
Well educated , he was an Enlightenment  राजनैतिक theorist जो प्रचारित republicanism और लिखा prolifically  about his often seminal ideas , both in published works and in letters to his wife and key adviser Abigail as well as to other Founding Fathers .
Adams came to prominence in the early stages of the  अमरीकी  Revolution .
A lawyer and public figure in Boston , as a delegate from Massachusetts to the  महाद्वीपीय कॉंग्रेस , he निभाई a अग्रणी भूमिका  in persuading Congress to declare independence .
He assisted Thomas  जेफरसन in drafting the घोषणा  of Independence in 1776 , and was its primary advocate in the Congress .
Later , as a diplomat in Europe , he helped negotiate the eventual peace treaty with  ग्रेट ब्रिटेन , और थी जिम्मेदार लिये obtaining vital सरकारी  loans from Amsterdam bankers .
A political theorist and historian , Adams largely wrote the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780 , which together with his  पहले विचार on सरकारी , बहकावे अमरीकी राजनैतिक  thought .
One of his greatest roles was as a judge of character : in 1775 , he nominated George  वॉशिंगटन to be commander-in-chief  , and 25 years later nominated John Marshall to be Chief Justice of the United States .
Adams ' revolutionary  श्रेय secured उसे दो शर्तें as जार्ज वॉशिंगटन  's vice president and his own election in 1796 as the second president .
During his one term , he  encountered ferocious हमले by the jeffersonian republicans  , as well as the dominant faction in his own Federalist Party led by his bitter enemy Alexander Hamilton .
Adams signed the controversial  एलियन और राजद्रोह अधिनियमों , और निर्मित up the फौज और  navy especially in the face of an undeclared naval war ( called the `` Quasi-War `` ) with France , 1798–1800 .
The major  accomplishment of उसके प्रेसिडेंसी  was his peaceful resolution of the conflict in the face of Hamilton 's opposition .
In 1800 ,  एडम्स थी पराजित  for re-election by Thomas Jefferson and retired to Massachusetts .
he बाद  resumed his friendship with Jefferson .
He and his wife ,  अबीगैल एडम्स , संस्थापित an संपन्नता  family line of politicians , diplomats , and historians now referred to as the Adams political family .
Adams was the father of John Quincy Adams , the  छठे अध्यक्ष  of the United States .
His achievements have received greater recognition in modern times , though his contributions were not initially as  मनाये as those of अन्य  Founders .
Adams was the first U.S. president to reside in the building that eventually became known  as  the White House .
The United States ten-dollar bill ( $ 10 ) is a denomination of United States  करेंसी .
The first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury ( 1789–95 ) , Alexander Hamilton , is currently featured on the obverse of the bill , while the U.S.  राजकोष भवन is प्रदर्शित on the  reverse .
( Hamilton is one  of दो non-presidents  featured on currently issued U.S. bills .
The other is  बेंजामिन फ्रैंकलिन  , on the $ 100 bill .
Hamilton is one of only four  लोगों प्रदर्शित on u.S. पेपर करेंसी  ( 1861 to the present ) who was not born in the continental United States , as he was from the West Indies .
The others are : Albert Gallatin , Switzerland ( $ 500 1862/63 Legal Tender  ) ; जार्ज meade , स्पेन ( $ 1,000 1890/91 राजकोष  Note ) ; and Robert Morris , England ( $ 1,000 1862/63 Legal Tender ; $ 10 1878/80 Silver Certificate ) .
In addition , Kamehameha I , appears on the 2008  हवाई राज्य क्वार्टर .  )
सब $ 10 बिल्स जारी  today are Federal Reserve Notes .
The Bureau of Engraving and Printing says the  औसत जीवन of a $ 10 विधेयक in परिसंचरण  is 18 months before it is replaced due to wear .
Approximately 6 %  of सब us banknotes  printed in 2009 were $ 10 bills .
Ten dollar bills are delivered  by संघीय आरक्षित बैंको  in yellow straps .
The source of the face on the $ 10 bill is John  trumbull ’s 1805 पोर्ट्रेट  of Hamilton that belongs to the portrait collection of New York City Hall .
The $ 10 bill is the only U.S. paper currency in circulation in which the portrait faces to the left (  the $ 100,000 विधेयक प्रदर्शित a पोर्ट्रेट of वुडरो विल्सन facing  to the left , but was used only for intra-government transactions ) .
A rider on a  यामाहा waverunner xl  performing a high-speed turn .
A jetboat is a boat propelled by a  जेट of जल ejected इससे the  back of the craft .
Unlike a powerboat or motorboat that uses a propeller in the water below or behind the boat , a  jetboat draws the जल इससे अंतर्गत the नाव  into a pump inside the boat , then expels it through a nozzle at the stern .
Jetboats were originally designed by Sir William Hamilton ( who  विकसित a waterjet in 1954 ) लिये आपरेशन in the fast-flowing और उथले नदियाँ of  New Zealand , specifically to overcome the problem of propellers striking rocks in such waters .
Previous attempts at  waterjet नोदन था बहुत छोटी lifetimes , generally  due to the inefficient design of the units and the fact that they offered few advantages over conventional propellers .
Unlike these previous waterjet  developments , ऐसे as campini 's और the hanley hydrojet , हैमिल्टन था a विशिष्ट need लिये a नोदन  system to operate in very-shallow water , and the waterjet proved to be the ideal solution .
From  इस , the लोकप्रियता  of the jet unit and jetboat increased rapidly .
through further developments , it थी मिला the waterjet offered अनेक अन्य लाभ over propellers लिये a चौड़ी दायरा  of vessel types , and as such , waterjets are used widely today for many high-speed vessels , including passenger ferries , rescue craft , patrol boats and offshore supply vessels .
Jetboats are highly maneuverable ,  और अनेक can , इससे  full speed , be reversed and brought to a stop within little more than their own length , in a maneuver known as a `` crash stop '' .
The well known Hamilton turn or `` jet spin '' is a high-speed maneuvre where the boat 's engine throttle is cut , the steering is turned sharply and the throttle  खोली again , causing the नाव  to spin quickly around with a large spray of water .
There is no engineering limit to the size of jetboats , though the validity of  उनके उपयोग depends  a lot on the type of application .
Classic prop-drives are generally more efficient and economical at low speeds , up to about , but as boat speed  increases परे इस , the अतिरिक्त हल प्रतिरोध  generated by struts , rudders , shafts ( etc . ) means waterjets are more efficient in the 20-50 knot range ( up to ) .
Also , in situations with very large propellers  turning at slow speeds ( ऐसे as tug नौकाएँ ) , the समतुल्य  size waterjet would be too big to be practical .
For these reasons , the vast majority of waterjet units are installed in high-speed vessels and in particular situations where shallow draught ,  maneuverability , और  load flexibility are main concerns .
The biggest jet-driven vessels are found in military use or the  high-speed passenger/car  ferry industry .
South Africa 's s ( approximately long ) are the  biggest jet-propelled  vessels so far .
Even these German-built  बरतन हैं सक्षम of  performing `` crash stops '' .
Uveitis is broadly  पारिभाषित as  inflammation of the uvea .
The uvea consists of the middle , pigmented , vascular  structures of the नजर और शामिल the  iris , ciliary body , and choroid .
Uveitis  requires an तात्कालिक referral और thorough  examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist along with urgent treatment to control the inflammation .
Eric ``  e  . ''
मर्फी is a fictional  character on the comedy-drama television series Entourage .
He  is निभाई  by Kevin Connolly .
The Shining is a 1980 psychological horror film produced and directed by Stanley Kubrick , co-written with novelist Diane Johnson , and starring Jack Nicholson ,  शेली duvall , scatman crothers ,  and Danny Lloyd .
the फिल्मी is आधारित  on the Stephen King novel The Shining .
A writer , Jack Torrance , takes a job as an off-season  कार्यवाहक at an पृथक  hotel .
His young son possesses  मानसिक abilities और is समर्थ to देखिए बाते  from the past and future , such as the ghosts who inhabit the hotel .
Soon after settling in , the family is trapped in the hotel  by a snowstorm , और जोकर धीरे becomes बहकावे by a अलौकिक  presence ; he descends into madness and attempts to murder his wife and son .
Unlike previous Kubrick films , which developed an audience gradually by building on word-of-mouth , The Shining was released as a mass-market film , opening at first in just two cities on  मेमोरियल दिन , तब देशभर a माह  later .
Although initial response to  the फिल्मी थी मिश्रित , बाद नाजुक  assessment was more favorable and it is now viewed as a classic of the horror genre .
Film director Martin Scorsese , writing in The  रोज़ जानवर , क्रमित it as एक of the 11  scariest horror movies of all time .
Film critics , film students , and Kubrick 's producer , Jan  harlan , have remarked on the विशाल influence the फिल्मी रै  had on popular culture .
The initial European release of The Shining was 25 minutes shorter than the American version , achieved by removing most  of the दृश्यों लेने प्लेस बाहर the  environs of the hotel .
आँगन  Cola Bottle
Patio Diet Cola was a brand of  आहार सोडा introduced  by Pepsi in 1963 .
It  थी निर्मित in जवाब to  Diet Rite Cola , which was the first diet cola on the market .
Fitness promoter Debbie Drake was Patio Diet Cola  's प्रवक्ता  .
In 1964 , Patio released  नारंगी , अंगूर  , and root beer flavors .
This flavor line was not meant to compete with brands like  नारंगी crush , लकिन बल्कि  fill out the line .
Patio sodas  यहूद उपलब्धियाँ  in the cold-bottle market : grocery and mom-and-pop stores .
Advertising for Patio was comparatively scarce ; at the time , bottlers were regionally franchised , and  सम्बन्धित विज्ञापन थी necessarily  local .
In 1964 , Patio diet cola  became  Diet Pepsi .
The newly branded diet soda was  advertised  alongside Pepsi with the tagline `` Pepsi either way '' , which replaced the slogan `` Dances with flavor '' .
The short life span of Patio Diet cola makes it  a ग्रेट जोड लिये बोतल collectors  .
Most of the remaining  आँगन लकीर of जायका यहूद phased आउट  by the early 1970s , while a few survived until the mid 70s
Infrastructure is basic physical and organizational structures needed for the operation of a  समाज or एंटरप्राइज़ , or the सेवाएं और सुविधाएं जरुरी लिये  an economy to function .
It can be generally defined as the set of interconnected structural elements that  provide फ्रेमवर्क supporting an संपूर्ण ढांचा  of development .
it is an महत्वपूर्ण  term for judging a country or region 's development .
The term typically refers to the technical structures that support a society , such as roads , bridges , water supply , sewers , electrical grids , telecommunications , and so forth  , और can be पारिभाषित as `` the शारीरिक components of interrelated प्रणालियों  providing commodities and services essential to enable , sustain , or enhance societal living conditions . ''
Viewed functionally , infrastructure facilitates the production of goods and services , and also the distribution of finished products to markets , as well as basic social  सेवाएं ऐसे as स्कूलों और अस्पताल ; लिये उदाहरण , सड़कें enable the हस्तांतरण  of raw materials to a factory .
In  सैन्य parlance , the पद refers to the  buildings and permanent installations necessary for the support , redeployment , and operation of military forces .
To make it  सरल , अवसंरचना  is anything that is needed everyday , an everyday item .
A graphical  प्रतिनिधित्व  of the ideal human karyotype
mitochondrial  DNA .
Human genetic variation is the genetic differences both within and  among populations .
वहीँ may be अनेक विसंगतियाँ  of any given gene in the human population ( genes ) , leading to polymorphism .
Many genes  हैं नहीं बहुरूपी , अर्थ कि तभी a सिंगल  allele is present in the population : the gene is then said to be fixed .
No two humans are genetically  एकसमान  .
Even monozygotic twins , who develop from one zygote , have infrequent genetic differences due to mutations  occurring दौरान विकास और जीन  copy number variation .
Differences between individuals , even closely related  individuals , हैं the कुंजी to तकनीकों  such as genetic fingerprinting .
Alleles occur at different frequencies in different human populations , with populations that are more geographically  और ancestrally रिमोट tending  to differ more .
Causes of differences between individuals  शामिल the एक्सचेंज of जीनों दौरान meiosis  and various mutational events .
There are at least two  कारण क्यों जेनेटिक  variation exists between populations .
प्राकृतिक चयन may confer an  adaptive advantage to individuals in a specific environment if an allele provides a competitive advantage .
Alleles under selection are likely to occur only in  those भौगोलिक regions  where they confer an advantage .
The second main cause of genetic  विभिन्नता is due to the ऊँची  degree of neutrality of most mutations .
Most  mutations do नहीं  appear to have any selective effect one way or the other on the organism .
The main cause is genetic drift , this is the effect of random  परिवर्तन in the जीन पूल  .
In humans , founder effect and past  छोटी जनसांख्यिकी आकार ( increasing the likelihood of जेनेटिक  drift ) may have had an important influence in neutral differences between populations .
the सिद्धान्त कि इंसानो recently  migrated out of Africa supports this .
the पढ़ाई of इंसान जेनेटिक विभिन्नता  has both evolutionary significance and medical applications .
It can help scientists  समझे प्राचीन  human population migrations as well as how different human groups are biologically related to one another .
For medicine , study of human genetic variation may be important  क्युकी कुछ disease-causing alleles occur अधिक प्रायः in  people from specific geographic regions .
New findings show that each human  रै on औसत 60 नई mutations compared  to their parents .
Apart from mutations , many genes that may have aided humans  in प्राचीन टाइम्स प्लेग इंसानो  today .
For example , it is suspected that genes that  allow इंसानो  to more efficiently process food are those that make people susceptible to obesity and diabetes today .
Tea Party protesters on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol and the  नेशनल मॉल at the करदाताओं कूच  on Washington on September 12 , 2009 .
The Tea Party movement is an American political movement that advocates strict adherence to the United States Constitution , reducing U.S. government spending and taxes ,  और कटौती of the u.S. नेशनल कर्ज़ और संघीय  budget deficit .
The  गति रै महरूम पुकारा  partly conservative , partly libertarian , and partly populist .
The  गति रै प्रायोजित  protests and supported political candidates since 2009 .
The name of the movement is derived  इससे the बोस्टन चाय पार्टी of 1773  , an iconic event in American history .
Anti-tax protesters in the United States have often referred to the original  बोस्टन चाय पार्टी लिये प्रेरणा  .
References to the Boston Tea Party were part of Tax Day  विरोध आयोजित throughout the 1990s और पहले  .
By 2001 , a custom had developed among some conservative activists of mailing tea bags to legislators and other  officials as a  symbolic act .
The currencies of Puerto  रीको closely follow  the historic development of Puerto Rico .
As a colony of Spain and  the संयुक्त राज्य , प्यूर्टो  Rico was granted the use of both foreign and provincial currencies .
Following the Spanish colonization in 1502 ,  प्यूर्टो रीको became an महत्वपूर्ण बंदरगाहों , साथ  its own supply of gold .
However , as the mineral reserves ran  खाली भीतर the सदी  , the archipelago 's economy suffered .
The Spanish Crown issued the Situado  mexicano , जिससे meant कि a semi-regular शिपमेंट of सुनहरा इससे  the Viceroyalty of New Spain would be sent to the island , as a way to provide economic support .
Between 1636 and  1637 , फिलिप iv of स्पेन imposed  a tax which had to be paid using a revenue stamp .
Inspired by this , Puerto Rico began producing  banknotes in 1766 , बनने the पहला उपनिवेश to छपाई 8- रियल  banknotes in the Spanish Empire and which in the Spanish government 's approval of subsequent issues .
The situado was discontinued during the 19th century , creating an economic crisis , as a result of  मैक्सिको gaining  its independence from Spain .
Salvador Meléndez Bruna , the colonial  राज्यपाल in दफ्तर , ordered the समस्या of प्रांतीय  banknotes , creating the Puerto Rican peso .
However , printing of these banknotes ceased after  1815 .
During  the following दशकों ,  foreign coins became the widespread currency .
In the  1860s और 1870s ,  banknotes reemerged .
On February 1 , 1890 , the Banco Español de Puerto Rico was inaugurated and  began issuing banknotes  .
the बैंको designed  four series and placed three in circulation under Spanish rule .
In 1895 , a Royal Decree ordered the  उत्पादन of प्रांतीय  peso coins .
On August 13 , 1898 , the  spanish-american युद्ध ended साथ स्पेन ceding  Puerto Rico to the United States .
The Banco Español  de प्यूर्टो रीको थी renamed बैंको  of Porto Rico and issued bills equivalent to the United States dollar , creating the Puerto Rican dollar .
In 1902 , the First National Bank  of पोर्टो रीको जारी banknotes  in a parallel manner .
Two   more series were issued until 1913 .
After Puerto Rico 's economy and monetary system was fully integrated into the United  राज्य ' आर्थिक और मौद्रिक प्रणाली , the  Puerto Rican dollars were redeemed for those issued by the United States Treasury .
The peso and dollar have been followed by other  समकालीन मुद्दे , सहित commemorative banknotes  , private currency , and a quarter coin designed with Fort San Felipe del Morro in the face .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi , formerly stylized in uppercase as  पेप्सी ) is a कार्बोनेटेड नरम पेय कि is उत्पादित और  manufactured by PepsiCo .
Created and developed in 1893 and introduced as Brad 's Drink ,  it थी renamed  as Pepsi-Cola on August 28 , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
The Book of Ezekiel is the third of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible , following the  किताबे of यशायाह और यिर्मयाह और preceding  the Book of the Twelve .
( The order is somewhat  अलग in  the Christian Old Testament ) .
It derives its name from , and records the visions of , the 6th century  bc पुजारी और नबी ezekiel  .
According to  the किताब , the नबी , exiled in बाबुल , अनुभवी  a series of seven visions during the 22 years from 593 to 571 BC , a period which spans the final destruction of Jerusalem in 586 .
The visions , and the book , are structured around three themes : ( 1 ) judgment on Israel ( chapters 1-24 )  ; ( 2 ) निर्णय on the राष्ट्र ( अध्याय 25-32 ) ; और भविष्य आशीर्वाद लिये  Israel ( chapters 33-48 ) .
New Orleans ( or , locally or ; ) is a major United States port and the largest city and  महानगर क्षेत्रफल in the  state of Louisiana .
The  जनसांख्यिकी of the नगर थी 343,829  as of the 2010 U.S. Census .
The New  ऑरलियन्स  metropolitan area ( New Orleans–Metairie–Kenner Metropolitan Statistical Area ) had a population of 1,167,764 in 2010 and was the 46th largest in the United States .
The New  orleans–metairie–bogalusa संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय  Area , a larger trading area , had a 2010 population of 1,214,932 .
The city is named after Orléans , a city located on the Loire River in Centre , France , and is well known for its distinct French Creole architecture , as  खूब as इसके cross-cultural और बहुभाषी  heritage .
New Orleans is also famous for its cuisine ,  म्यूज़िक ( विशेषकर as the जन्मस्थान of जैज़ ) , और इसके सालाना  celebrations and festivals , most notably Mardi Gras .
The city is often referred  to as the `` सबसे  unique '' in America .
New Orleans is located in  southeastern louisiana , straddling  the Mississippi River .
the नगर  and Orleans Parish ( ) are .
The city and parish are bounded by the parishes of St. Tammany to  the उत्तर , st. बर्नार्ड to the ईस्ट , plaquemines  to the south and Jefferson to the south and west .
Lake Pontchartrain , part of which is included in the city limits , lies to  the उत्तर और झील borgne  lies to the east .
The National Birth  कंट्रोल लीग  was a birth control organization in the United States .
It was founded in March 1915 by Mary Dennett , Clara  gruening  Stillman and Jessie Ashley .
Its main purpose was to overturn the  कानून जिससे बैन contraceptives  from the U.S. mails .
Campaigns were mounted in New York , but in 1919 the League was disbanded and reformed into the  voluntary parenthood लीग  .
Cancer , known medically as a malignant neoplasm , is a broad group of  विभिन्न रोगों , सब involving unregulated  cell growth .
In cancer , cells divide and grow uncontrollably ,  forming malignant  tumors , and invade nearby parts of the body .
The cancer may  भी स्प्रेड to अधिक दूर भाग  of the body through the lymphatic system or bloodstream .
Not all  tumors  are cancerous .
Benign tumors do not  grow uncontrollably , do नहीं invade neighboring  tissues , and do not spread throughout the body .
There are over 200 different  ज्ञात cancers कि पहुँचकर  humans .
determining कया कल्याणकारी  cancer is complex .
Many things are known to increase the risk of cancer ,  सहित तम्बाकू उपयोग , निश्चित infections , विकिरण , कमी of  physical activity , obesity , and environmental pollutants .
These can directly damage genes or combine with   existing genetic faults within cells to cause the disease .
Approximately five to ten percent of cancers are  entirely खानदानी  .
Cancer can be detected in a number of ways , including the presence of  निश्चित लक्षण और लक्षण , स्क्रीनिंग परीक्षण , or  medical imaging .
Once a possible cancer is detected it is diagnosed by  microscopic परिक्षा  of a tissue sample .
Cancer is usually  treated साथ कीमोथेरेपी , विकिरण  therapy and surgery .
The chances of surviving the disease vary greatly by the  प्रकार और स्थान of the कर्कट और the extent  of disease at the start of treatment .
While cancer can affect people of all ages , and a few types of cancer are more common in children , the  रिस्क of विकासशील कर्कट generally increases साथ आयु  .
In 2007 ,  कर्कट caused परिचय 13  % of all human deaths worldwide ( 7.9 million ) .
Rates are rising as more people live to an old age and as  द्रव्यमान जीवनशैली परिवर्तन occur  in the developing world .
Spring ski touring on  hardangervidda  , Norway
Skiing is a recreational activity and  प्रतिस्पर्धी खेल in जिससे the भागीदार attaches  long runners or skis to boots or shoes on the feet and uses them to travel on top of snow .
Aside from recreation and competition , skiing has been used for military purposes and even travelling in areas  कि अनुभव भारी हिमपात  .
Many types of competitive skiing events are  पहचाना by the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Olympic Committee , and the International Ski Federation .
John Maynard Keynes , 1st Baron  keynes , cb , fba ( ; 5 जून 1883 – 21 अप्रैल 1946  ) was a British economist whose ideas have fundamentally affected the theory and practice of modern macroeconomics , and informed the economic policies of governments .
He built on and greatly refined earlier work on the causes of business cycles , and is widely considered to be one of the founders of modern macroeconomics and the most influential  अर्थशास्त्री of the 20th सदी  .
His ideas are the basis for the school of  विचार ज्ञात as keynesian अर्थशास्त्र , as खूब  as its various offshoots .
In many ways , subsequent developments in 20th century economics can be viewed as either building  on keynes ' विचार or  reacting against them .
In the 1930s , Keynes spearheaded a revolution in economic thinking , overturning the older ideas of neoclassical economics that held that free markets would , in the short to medium term , automatically  provide पूरा नियुक्ति , as long as मजदूर यहूद लचीली in उनके मजदूरी मांगे  .
Keynes instead argued that aggregate demand determined the overall level  of आर्थिक कार्यकलाप , और कि अपर्याप्त  aggregate demand could lead to prolonged periods of high unemployment .
He advocated the use of fiscal  और मौद्रिक उपायों to mitigate  the adverse effects of economic recessions and depressions .
Following the outbreak of the Second World War , Keynes 's ideas concerning economic  नीति यहूद अपनाया by अग्रणी पश्चिमी  economies .
In 1942 ,  keynes थी awarded a खानदानी peerage as सामन्त  Keynes of Tilton in the County of Sussex .
Keynes died in 1946 , but during the 1950s and 1960s the success of  keynesian अर्थशास्त्र resulted in लगभग सब पूंजीवादी  governments adopting its policy recommendations .
Keynes 's influence waned in the 1970s , partly as a result of problems that began to afflict the Anglo-American  economies इससे the प्रारंभ of the दशक  , and partly because of critiques from Milton Friedman and other economists who were pessimistic about the ability of governments to regulate the business cycle with fiscal policy .
However ,  the आगमन of the वैश्विक वित्तीय संकट  in 2007 caused a resurgence in Keynesian thought .
Keynesian economics provided the theoretical underpinning for  आर्थिक नीतियों undertaken in जवाब to the संकट by  Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama of the United States , Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom , and other heads of governments .
In 1999 , Time magazine included Keynes in their list of the 100 most important and influential people of the  20th सदी , commenting कि : ``  His radical idea that governments should spend money they do n't have may have saved capitalism . ''
In addition to being an economist , Keynes was also a civil servant , a director of the British Eugenics Society , a director of the Bank of England , a  संरक्षक of the कला और an आर्ट कलेक्टर , a भाग of the bloomsbury समूह of intellectuals  , an advisor to several charitable trusts , a writer , a philosopher , a private investor , and a farmer .
This 1768 parchment ( 612×502 mm ) by Jekuthiel Sofer emulated the 1675 Ten Commandments at  the एम्सटर्डम  Esnoga synagogue .
The Ten Commandments , also known as the Decalogue , are a set  of biblical कानून relating to आचार और इबादत , जिससे खेल a आधारभूत भूमिका in judaism  , Islam and Christianity .
They include instructions to worship only  परमेश्वर , to रखना the  sabbath holy and prohibitions against idolatry , blasphemy , murder , theft , deception and adultery .
Different groups follow  थोड़ा अलग परंपराओं  for interpreting and numbering them .
The Ten  आयतें appear twice in the यहूदी  Bible , in the books of Exodus and Deuteronomy .
According to the story in Exodus , God inscribed them on two stone tablets , which he gave to Moses on  माउंट sinai .
Modern scholarship has found likely  प्रभाव in hittite और  Mesopotamian laws and treaties , but is divided over exactly when the Ten Commandments were written and who wrote them .
The discography of the English alternative  चट्टान बैंड the smiths consists of चार स्टुडियो एल्बम  , one extended play ( EP ) , one live album , ten compilation albums , twenty singles , one video album and fourteen music videos on the Rough Trade , Sire and WEA record labels .
The band was formed in 1982 in Manchester  by vocalist morrissey  , guitarist Johnny Marr , bass player Andy Rourke and drummer Mike Joyce .
Despite being championed by BBC Radio 1 disc  jockey जॉन छिलके , the बैंड 's डेब्यू सिंगल , ``  Hand in Glove `` ( May 1983 ) , failed to chart .
Its follow-up , `` This Charming Man `` ( October 1983 ) ,  मिले साथ नाजुक acclaim और  reached number twenty-five on the UK Singles Chart .
The Smiths ' cult status was  followed by मुख्यधारा कामयाबी in 1984 , as वे पहुँचे  number twelve in the UK with the `` What Difference Does It Make ? `` single and reached number two on the UK Albums Chart with their debut album , The Smiths ( 1984 ) .
Their next three singles all reached the top twenty of  the चार्ट in the uk  , helping to consolidate their previous chart success .
The next studio album , Meat Is Murder ( 1985 ) , reached the top of the British charts ; however , the only single to be released  इससे the एल्बम , `` कि चुटकुला is n't मजेदार anymore `` ( 1985 ) , विफल to ब्रेक  the UK Top 40 .
Returning to form , The Smiths ' next six singles all reached the higher than number thirty in the UK and their third  एल्बम , the महारानी is मुर्दे ( 1986 ) , पहुँचे क्रमांक दो  in the UK .
Despite the band 's chart success , Marr  बाएँ the समूह in अगस्त 1987  due to a strained relationship with Morrissey .
Failing to find a replacement , The Smiths disbanded by the time their final  स्टुडियो एल्बम , strangeways  , Here We Come , was released in September that year .
Strangeways , Here We Come reached number two in the UK and became the band 's  highest-charting रिलीज in the संयुक्त राज्य जब it पहुँचे क्रमांक fifty-five  on the Billboard 200 .
In early 1992 , WEA acquired the entire back catalogue of The Smiths and produced two compilations –  बेहतरीन ... i और ... बेहतरीन ii – the पहला of जिससे पहुँचे the  top of the UK Albums Chart .
WEA  released  two further singles compilations in 1995 and 2001 , with a further compilation , The Sound of The Smiths , released in November 2008 .
Gone with the Wind is a  अनोखा लिखा by मार्गरेट मिशेल  , first published in 1936 .
it is प्रायः लगाई  in the literary sub-genre of the historical romance novel .
However , it has been argued  the अनोखा is a `` निकट मिस '' और करता नहीं  contain all of the elements of the romance genre , making it simply a historical novel .
The story is set in Clayton County , Georgia , and Atlanta during the American  सिविल युद्ध और पुनर्निर्माण  .
It depicts the experiences of Scarlett O'Hara , the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner , who must use every means at her disposal to come out of the poverty she  पाता herself in बाद शरमन 's `` कूच  to the Sea '' .
Margaret Mitchell began writing Gone with the  हवा in 1926 to pass the समय जबकि recovering इससे an auto-crash  injury that refused to heal .
In April 1935 , Harold Latham of Macmillan , an editor who was looking for new fiction , read what she  था लिखा और देखी  that it could be a best-seller .
After Latham agreed to publish the book , Mitchell worked for another six  महीने checking the ऐतिहासिक  references , and rewrote the opening chapter several times .
Mitchell and her husband John Marsh , a copy editor by trade ,  संपादित the फाइनल संस्करण  of the novel .
Mitchell wrote the book 's final  पल पहला , और तब लिखा  the events that led up to it .
As to what became  of उसके प्रेमियों , रहेट और स्कारलेट , बाद the  novel ended , Mitchell did not know , and said , `` For all I know , Rhett may have found someone else who was less difficult . ''
Mitchell received the  पुलित्जर पुरस्कार लिये fiction  for the book in 1937 .
The book was adapted  into a 1939  American film .
Gone with the Wind is the only novel by Mitchell published  दौरान उसके आजीवन  .
Endodontics ( from the Greek endo `` inside '' ; and odons `` tooth '' ) is one of the dental specialties recognized by the  अमरीकी दंत संघ , royal कॉलेज of dentists of कनाडा , और royal  Australasian College of Dental Surgeons , and deals with the tooth pulp and the tissues surrounding the root of a tooth .
Endodontists perform a variety of procedures including  endodontic चिकित्सा ( commonly ज्ञात as `` रूट कनाल चिकित्सा '' )  , endodontic retreatment , surgery , treating cracked teeth , and treating dental trauma .
Root canal  चिकित्सा  is one of the most common procedures .
If the pulp ( containing nerves , arterioles , venules  , lymphatic ऊतक , और तंतुमय  tissue ) becomes diseased or injured , endodontic treatment is required to save the tooth .
Serial Attached SCSI ( SAS ) is a point-to-point serial protocol that  चालें आंकड़ा to और  from computer storage devices such as hard drives and tape drives .
SAS replaces the older Parallel SCSI ( pronounced `` scuzzy '' ) bus technology that first appeared  in  the mid-1980s .
SAS , like its  पूर्ववर्ती ,  uses the standard SCSI command set .
SAS offers backward  संगतता साथ second-generation  SATA drives .
SATA 3 Gbit/s drives may be connected to SAS backplanes , but SAS drives can  नहीं कनेक्ट to sata  backplanes .
The T10 technical committee of the International  कमेटी लिये सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी मानकों ( incits  ) develops and maintains the SAS protocol ; the SCSI Trade Association ( SCSITA ) promotes the technology .
Part of the  संवैधानिक  provision as it appeared in 1787
Status as a natural-born  नागरिक of the संयुक्त  States is one of the eligibility requirements established in the United States Constitution for election to the office of President or Vice President .
This  आवश्यकता थी intended to protect  the nation from foreign influence .
The  संविधान  does not define the phrase natural-born citizen , and various opinions have been offered over time regarding its precise meaning .
A 2011 Congressional  शोध सेवा  report stated
The natural-born-citizen clause has been mentioned in passing in several decisions of the United States Supreme Court and lower courts dealing with the question of eligibility for citizenship by birth , but the Supreme Court has never directly addressed the question of a  विशिष्ट अध्यक्षीय or vice-presidential प्रत्याशी 's पात्रता as a natural-born नागरिक  .
Kurtis Eugene `` Kurt ''  warner ( born जून 22 , 1971  ) is a former American football player .
He played quarterback for three  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) टीमों : the st. लुई मेढ़ों , the  New York Giants , and the Arizona Cardinals .
He was  originally हस्ताक्षरित by the ग्रीन खाड़ी पैकर्स  as an undrafted free agent in 1994 after playing college football at Northern Iowa .
Warner would go on to be  माना the बेहतरीन undrafted खिलाड़ी of सब समय , following a 12-year  career regarded as one of the greatest stories in NFL history .
Warner first attained  स्टारडम जबकि playing लिये the st. लुई मेढ़ों इससे 1998 to 2003 , जहाँ  he won two NFL MVP awards in 1999 and 2001 as well as the Super Bowl MVP award in Super Bowl XXXIV .
He led the 2008 Arizona Cardinals to Super  कटोरी xliii  ( the franchise 's first Super Bowl berth ) , and owns the three highest single-game passing yardage totals in Super Bowl history .
Warner  फिलहाल holds the seventh-highest करियर passer  rating of all-time ( 93.7 ) , and the third-highest career completion percentage in NFL history with 65.5 % .
In 13 career  playoff खेल , warner बाँधने पहला all-time in पूर्णता  percentage ( 66.5 % ) , yards per attempt ( 8.55 ) , and second in passer rating ( 102.8 ) .
He also holds the highest completion percentage for a single game during the regular season , at 92.3 percent ( 24/26 ) , on  सितंबर 20 , 2009 , विरूद्ध the  Jacksonville Jaguars .
He announced his retirement on January 29 , 2010. <  संदर्भ name='cnn 2010-01-29  ' >
Janet Kay Ruthven Hagan ( ;  born may 26 , 1953 ) is the जूनियर संयुक्त  States Senator from North Carolina , in office since January 2009 .
Previously she served  in the उत्तर  Carolina Senate from 1999 to 2009 .
She is a member of the Democratic  पार्टी और is viewed as a मॉडरेट  member of her party .
जब hagan पराजित रिपब्लिकन लाज़िम एलिज़ाबेथ  Dole in the 2008 United States Senate election , she became the first woman to defeat an incumbent woman in a Senate election .
The Heisman Memorial Trophy Award ( usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or the Heisman ) , is  awarded annually to the खिलाड़ी deemed the सबसे  outstanding player in collegiate football .
It was created in 1935 as the Downtown Athletic Club trophy and renamed in 1936 following the death of the Club 's athletic director , John Heisman ( former Brown University and University of Pennsylvania player ; head football coach at Oberlin College , Auburn University , Clemson University ,  राइस विश्वविद्यालयों , और the विश्वविद्यालयों of पेन्सिलवेनिया ; और फ़ुटबॉल ,  basketball , and baseball head coach and athletic director at Georgia Tech ) .
the पुरस्कार is प्रस्तुत by the heisman  Trophy Trust in early December before the postseason bowl games .
It is the  oldest of अनेक overall  awards in college football , including the Maxwell Award , Walter Camp Award , and the AP Player of the Year .
The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year are the only awards to honor the most outstanding player , while the Maxwell Award and Walter Camp Award recognize the best  खिलाड़ी , और the आर्ची griffin पुरस्कार recognizes the सबसे मूल्यवान  player .
The United Nations Command ( UNC ) is the unified command structure for the multinational military  शक्तियां  supporting the Republic of Korea ( South Korea or ROK ) during and after the Korean War .
After troops of the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea ( North Korea or DPRK ) invaded  दक्षिण कोरियाई on जून 25 , 1950 , the संयुक्त राष्ट्र  Security Council adopted Resolution 82 calling on North Korea to cease hostilities and withdraw to the 38th parallel .
On June 27 , 1950 , it adopted Resolution 83 , recommending that members of the United Nations provide  सहायता to the गणतंत्र of कोरियाई `` to repel the  armed attack and to restore international peace and security to the area '' .
Security Council Resolution 84 , adopted on July 7 , 1950 , recommended that members providing military forces and other assistance to South Korea `` make such forces and other  सहायता उपलब्धियाँ to a एकीकृत कमांड अंतर्गत the संयुक्त  States of America '' .
Although the resolutions suggested the forces under the UNC were ``  संयुक्त राष्ट्र शक्तियां '' , और संयुक्त राष्ट्र  itself could be considered a belligerent , in practice the United Nations exercised no control over the combat forces , which were controlled by the United States .
Most observers concluded that the forces under the UNC were not in law United Nations troops , and the acts of  the unc यहूद नहीं the अधिनियमों of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र  .
The UNC can be regarded as an alliance of national armies  , ऑपरेटिंग अंतर्गत  the collective right of self-defense .
On August 29 , 1950  , the  British Commonwealth 's 27th Infantry Brigade arrived at Busan to join the UNC , which until then included only ROK and U.S. forces .
The 27th Brigade moved into the Naktong River  लकीर वेस्ट of daegu  .
Troop units from other countries of the UN followed in rapid  उत्तराधिकार ; ऑस्ट्रेलिया , belgian संयुक्त राष्ट्र  Command , Canada , Colombia , Ethiopia , France , Greece , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , New Zealand , the Philippines , Thailand and Turkey .
The Union of South Africa provided air units which fought  alongside the एयर शक्तियां of अन्य सदस्य  nations .
Denmark , India , Norway , and  स्वीडन provided चिकित्सा  units .
Italy provided a  हॉस्पिटल , भी हालांकि  it was not a UN member .
The United  राष्ट्र कमांड और the chinese-north कोरियाई कमांड हस्ताक्षरित  the Korean Armistice Agreement on 27 July 1953 , ending the heavy fighting .
The armistice agreement established the Military Armistice Commission ( MAC ) , consisting of representatives  of the दो signatories , to supervise the क्रियान्वयन  of the armistice terms .
The North Korean-Chinese MAC has been replaced by Panmumjon  प्रतिनिधि  under exclusive North Korean management .
Regular meetings have been stopped , although duty officers of Joint Security Area , commonly  ज्ञात as the युद्धविराम गाँव of panmunjom ,  from each side meet regularly .
Lincoln Heights is an American family  नाटक टेलीविज़न श्रेणी परिचय एडी सटन , a मिशन विस्टा पुलिस अधिकारी जो चालें उसके  family back to his old neighborhood , Lincoln Heights , to start a new life and to help out his old neighborhood .
It is a dangerous place to raise a family , and through the many trials the  परिवार goes through , वे जल्द सीख कि settling in is नहीं  as easy as it seems .
While Officer Sutton struggles to cope with every day life as a street cop in  लॉस एंजिल्स , उसके बच्चे कोशिश to  fit in at their new schools and with their new neighbors .
The show premiered  जनवरी 8 , 2007 on the एबीसी परिवार संजाल साथ  13 episodes ordered for the first season .
It was approved for a  दूसरी ऋतु  , which premiered September 4 , 2007 .
Vanessa  हजेंस ' सोंग , कह ok  had been used in a commercial to promote the second season .
To promote the third season , they showed clips of Cassie and Charles 's  संबंध to the सोंग , crush by the अमरीकी आइडल  's seventh season runner-up , David Archuleta .
To promote season 4 , they 're using the  सोंग , हिमस्खलन by मारी  Digby .
The show 's theme song  थी लिखा और performed  by bassist Stanley Clarke and singer-songwriter Blaire Reinhard .
On January 29 , 2010 , ABC  परिवार घोषित the रद्दीकरण  of the series after four seasons .
A Christian denomination is an identifiable  धार्मिक देह अंतर्गत a आम नाम , ढांचा  , and doctrine within Christianity .
In the Orthodox  परंपरा , चर्च हैं विभाजित प्रायः साथ  ethnic and linguistic lines , into separate churches and traditions .
Technically , divisions between one group and  another हैं पारिभाषित by doctrine और  church authority .
मुद्दे ऐसे as the प्रकृति of यीशु , the प्राधिकार  of apostolic succession , eschatology , and papal primacy separate one denomination from another .
The Roman Catholic Church is the largest denomination with over 1.1  अरब सदस्यों , over हाफ of सब ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी , बनाना it the largest  denomination for any religion worldwide ( although the church does not view itself as a denomination , but as the original pre-denominational church ) .
Protestant denominations  comprise roughly 38–39 % of ईसाइयों विश्वव्यापी  , and together the Catholics , Protestants , Anglicans , and other closely related denominations comprise Western Christianity .
The Eastern Orthodox Church , Oriental Orthodox Churches and the Assyrian  गिरिजाघर of the ईस्ट हैं माना  Eastern Christian denominations .
Western Christian  denominations जीतना in पश्चिमी  Europe and its former colonies .
Eastern Christian  denominations हैं represented  mostly in Eastern Europe , the Middle East and North Africa .
Christians have various doctrines  परिचय the गिरिजाघर , the देह of वफादार कि वे मानना  was established by Jesus Christ , and how the divine church corresponds to Christian denominations .
Both the Catholics and the  पूर्वी परंपरागत consider  each of themselves solely to faithfully represent the One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church to the exclusion of the other .
Protestants separated from the  कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर  because of theologies and practices that they considered to be in violation of their interpretation .
Generally , members of the various denominations acknowledge each other as Christians , at least to the extent that they have mutually recognized baptisms and acknowledge historically orthodox views including the Divinity of Jesus and doctrines of  सिन और मोक्ष , भी हालांकि doctrinal और ecclesiological बाधाएं रोकते पूरा नियाज़  between churches .
Since the reforms surrounding Vatican II , the Catholic Church has referred to  प्रोटोस्टेंट समुदायों as  `` denominations '' , while reserving the term `` church '' for apostolic churches , including the Eastern Orthodox ( see subsistit in and branch theory ) .
There are however  कुछ non-denominational ईसाइयों  who do not follow any particular branch .
The panda (  ailuropoda melanoleuca  , lit .
`` black and white cat-foot '' ) , also  ज्ञात as the दानव पांडा to फर्क it  from the unrelated red panda , is a bear native to central-western and south western China .
It is easily recognized by the  विशाल , distinctive  black patches around its eyes , over the ears , and across its round body .
हालांकि it belongs  to the order Carnivora , the panda 's diet is 99 % bamboo .
Pandas in the wild will occasionally eat other grasses , wild tubers , or even meat in the  रूप of पक्षियों , rodents or carrion  .
In captivity , they may receive honey , eggs , fish , yams ,  झाड़ी पत्ते , संतरे , or केले साथ साथ  specially prepared food .
The giant panda lives in a few mountain ranges in central China ,  मुख्यतः in सिचुआन प्रांत  , but also in the Shaanxi and Gansu provinces .
As a result of farming , deforestation and other development , the panda has been  चलित आउट of the lowland क्षेत्रों  where it once lived .
The panda is a  संरक्षण reliant endangered  species .
A  2007 रपट shows 239 pandas जीना  in captivity inside China and another 27 outside the country .
Wild population estimates vary ; one estimate shows that there are about 1,590 individuals living in the wild , while a 2006 study via DNA analysis estimated  कि इस फिगर could be as ऊँची as 2,000  to 3,000 .
कुछ रिपोर्ट्स भी  show that the number of pandas in the wild is on the rise .
However , the IUCN does not believe there is  पर्याप्त certainty yet to reclassify the प्रजाति  from Endangered to Vulnerable .
While  the ड्रैगन रै प्रायः  served as China 's national emblem , internationally the panda appears at least as commonly .
As such , it is becoming widely used within  चीन in अंतरराष्ट्रीय contexts , लिये उदाहरण the पाँच  Fuwa mascots of the Beijing Olympics .
The  पतंग धावक is a 2007 अमरीकी नाटक  film directed by Marc Forster based on the novel of the same name by Khaled Hosseini .
It tells the story of Amir , a well-to-do boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul , who is  tormented by the guilt of abandoning  his friend Hassan , the son of his father 's Hazara servant .
The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events , from the fall of the monarchy in Afghanistan through the Soviet military intervention , the mass exodus of Afghan  शरणार्थियों to पाकिस्तानी और the संयुक्त राज्य , और the तालिबान शासन  .
Though most of the film is set in Afghanistan , these parts were mostly shot in Kashgar  , चीन , due to the खतरों  of filming in Afghanistan at the time .
The majority of the film 's dialogue is in Dari ,  साथ the शेष  spoken in English .
The child actors are native speakers ,  लकिन अनेक  adult actors had to learn Dari .
Filming wrapped up on December 21 ,  2006 , और the फिल्मी  was expected to be released on November 2 , 2007 .
However , after concern for the safety of the young actors in the film due to fears of violent reprisals to the sexual nature of some scenes in which they appear , its  रिलीज तिथि थी धकेल वापस छह  weeks to December 14 , 2007 .
The Kite  धावक थी released  on DVD on March 25 , 2008 .
A HD DVD release was announced for the  वही तिथि , लकिन थी रद्द  following the format 's demise .
The film was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for  बेहतरीन विदेशी भाषा फिल्मी  in 2007 .
The film 's score by Alberto  इग्लेसियस थी मनोनीत लिये बेहतरीन  Original Score at the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards .
The  वैधता  of cannabis varies from country to country .
Possession  of कैनबिस is illegal in सबसे देशों  and has been since the beginning of widespread cannabis prohibition in the late 1930s .
However , many countries have decriminalized the possession of small  quantities of कैनबिस , विशेषकर in उत्तर अमेरिका , दक्षिण अमेरिका  and Europe .
Furthermore , possession  is विधिक or effectively विधिक in the नीदरलैंड्स , उत्तर कोरियाई और होता be in the  U.S. states of Colorado and Washington if it were not for federal law , which governs persons in all states .
The medicinal use of cannabis is legal in a number of countries  , सहित कनाडा , the चेक  Republic and Israel .
While federal law in the United States bans all sale and possession of cannabis , enforcement varies widely at the state level and some states have  स्थापित औषधीय मारिजुआना कार्यक्रम in कि खण्डन संघीय विधि ; दो  states ( Colorado and Washington ) have repealed their laws prohibiting the recreational use of cannabis and replaced them with a regulatory regime , also contrary to federal statute .
Some countries have laws that are not as vigorously prosecuted as others but , apart from the  देशों कि प्रस्ताव अभिगम  to medical marijuana , most countries have various penalties ranging from lenient to very severe .
Some infractions are taken more seriously in some countries than others in regard to the cultivation , use , possession  or  transfer of cannabis for recreational use .
A few  jurisdictions have lessened दंड लिये कब्ज़ा of छोटी quantities  of cannabis , making it punishable by confiscation and a fine , rather than imprisonment .
Some jurisdictions/ drug courts use mandatory treatment programs for young or frequent users , with freedom from  narcotic दवाएँ as the लक्ष्य और a few jurisdictions परमिट कैनबिस  use for medicinal purposes .
There are also changes in a more restrictive  दिशा as in कनाडा  .
Drug  परीक्षण to detect कैनबिस हैं increasingly  common in many countries and have resulted in jail sentences and people losing their jobs .
However , simple possession can carry long jail sentences in some countries , particularly in parts of East  एशिया और southeast एशिया जहाँ the बिक्री of कैनबिस may सीसे to a वाक्य  of life in prison or even execution .
Loxahatchee is a community located in Palm  बीच काउंटी , फ्लोरिडा  , United States .
It is located in the areas north of Wellington and west and northwest of Royal  ताड़ बीच , फ्लोरिडा  and approximately west of West Palm Beach .
Loxahatchee is also the name of the Post Office that serves this area , which is  अंतर्गत the zip कोड  of 33470 .
The name Loxahatchee means `` turtle  नदी  . ''
Loxahatchee is located within the  भारतीय trails सुधार ज़िला  and the Loxahatchee Groves Water Control District .
Lion  देश safari , a drive-through  safari park , is located in Loxahatchee .
In 2006 , the state of Florida approved incorporation of part of Loxahatchee as the Town of Loxahatchee Groves  to become the 38th नगरपालिका in ताड़ बीच  County .
the प्रमुख कारण लिये incorporating थी to बेहतर protect the क्षेत्रफल इससे बुवाई  growth and to preserve the rural character of the neighborhood .
Perhaps the most rural area within a close  निकटता to वेस्ट ताड़ बीच  , with lot sizes range from 1-20 acres .
Along with The Acreage , it is notable for loose land restrictions and the native and  exotic एनिमल उपस्थिति is  quite notable .
Seminole Ridge High School  serves the  area .
The Canadian Citizenship Test is a test , administered by Citizenship and  आव्रजन कनाडा ( सीआईसी ) , कि is जरूरी  for all applicants for Canadian citizenship who are aged between 18 and 54 and who meet the basic requirements for citizenship .
The test is available in both French and  अंग्रेज़ी , the आधिकारिक भाषाएं  of Canada .
Renaissance Cruises , originally founded in 1989 owned by Fearnley  & eger rederi in ओस्लो - नार्वे , बाद खरीदा  by Edward Rudner ( founder of Alamo Car Rental ) as the company faltered during the Gulf War .
They operated year-round cruise itineraries to the Mediterranean , the Greek Isles , Tahiti and the  दक्षिण प्रशांत , उत्तरी यूरोपीय और scandinavia  .
The company ceased operations on 25  सितंबर 2001 और accommodated up to 220,000  guests in 2000 .
While the company had been in poor financial health for quite some  समय , the आर्थिक मनाही resulting इससे the सितंबर 11th  terrorist attacks are credited with the demise of this cruise line .
The fleet is listed under  सूची of क्रूज  ships .
It was headquartered in Fort  lauderdale ,  Florida .
Epithelium is one of the four basic  प्रकार of एनिमल  tissue , along with connective tissue , muscle tissue and nervous tissue .
epithelial ऊतकों लकीर the कैविटी और सतहों  of structures throughout the body , and also form many glands .
कृत्यों of epithelial कोशिकाएं शामिल  secretion , selective absorption , protection , transcellular transport and detection of sensation .
In Greek `` ἐπί '' ( `` epi '' ) means `` on '' or `` upon '' , and `` θηλή ''  ( `` thēlē '' ) अर्थात्  `` nipple '' .
Epithelial  परतों हैं avascular , so वे जरूर प्राप्त nourishment via  diffusion of substances from the underlying connective tissue , through the basement membrane .
epithelia  can also be organized into clusters of cells that function as exocrine and endocrine glands .
Kent E. Hovind ( born January 15 , 1953 ) is an American young Earth  creationist  .
Hovind has spoken on creation science and has aimed to convince listeners to reject theories of evolution , geophysics ,  और cosmology in एहसान of उसके  interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative from the Bible .
Hovind 's views are contradicted by scientific evidence and  कुछ of उसके विचार have भी महरूम criticized  by young Earth creationist organizations such as Answers in Genesis .
Hovind established the Creation Science Evangelism in 1991 , and frequently spoke on young Earth creationism at seminars at private schools  और चर्च , debates  , and on radio and television broadcasts .
Since January 2007 , Hovind has been serving a ten-year prison sentence after being convicted of 58 federal  रिश्तो , सहित 12 कर offenses , एक गिनती of obstructing  federal agents , and 45 counts of structuring cash transactions .
He is incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution  at बर्लिन , नई हैम्पशायर .
Bride with  बिंदी सजा  forehead
A bindi ( , from Sanskrit bindu , meaning `` a drop , small particle , dot '' ) , or a pottu/bottu ( in Tamil , Telugu , and  मलयालम ) is a माथे सजावट worn in दक्षिण एशिया ( विशेषकर इण्डिया , बांग्लादेश , नेपाल  , Sri Lanka and Mauritius ) and Southeast Asia .
Traditionally it is a bright dot of red color applied in the center of the forehead close to the eyebrows , but it can also consist of a sign  or टुकड़ा of आभूषण worn  at this location .
The New York gubernatorial election of 2010 was held on Tuesday , November 2 ,  2010 , to elect the राज्यपाल of नई  York , to serve a four-year term that began in January 2011 .
Incumbent Democratic Governor David Paterson , elected as  लेफ्टिनेंट राज्यपाल in 2006 as the कार्यशील mate of पूर्व राज्यपाल  Eliot Spitzer , chose not to run for a full-term .
On November 2 , New York  attorney सामान्य और डेमोक्रेट  Andrew Cuomo defeated Republican Carl Paladino .
Green Party candidate Howie Hawkins received over 57,000 votes , allowing the New York Green Party to  be सूचीबद्ध on the बैलट  for the next 4 years .
The  प्रमुख डाल of  Dragon Ball at the end of the manga .
The Dragon Ball manga and anime series  सुविधाएँ an extensive डाल of वर्ण  created by Akira Toriyama .
The series takes place in a fictional universe , the same as Toriyama 's previous series Dr.  slump , और फ़ॉलो the adventures of martial कलाकार बेटे goku इससे बाल्यकाल to  adulthood as he searches for the seven spheres known as the Dragon Balls , used to summon a wish-granting dragon .
During the course of the story , he encounters allies such as Bulma , Yamcha , Kuririn and Trunks , rivals such as Tenshinhan , Piccolo and  vegeta , और दुश्मनों ऐसे  as Freeza and Cell .
While many of the characters are humans with superhuman strength and/or supernatural abilities , the cast also  शामिल anthropomorphic पशु और बाद , extraterrestrial  lifeforms .
The series also includes depictions of the afterlife ,  साथ अनेक वर्ण होने  gods that govern the universe .
250px
The Comanche are a Plains Indian tribe whose historic territory , known as Comancheria , consisted of present day eastern New Mexico , southern Colorado , northeastern  एरिज़ोना , दक्षिणी कान्सास  , all of Oklahoma , and most of northwest Texas .
The Comanche people are enrolled  in the federally पहचाना  Comanche Nation , in Oklahoma .
historically  , the Comanches were hunter-gatherers with a horse culture .
There may have been as many as 45,000 Comanches in the  लेट 18th सदी  .
Today , the Comanche Nation Comanche tribal enrollment numbers 15,191 with approximately 7,763 members  residing in the lawton – फोर्ट sill और surrounding क्षेत्रों of दक्षिणपश्चिम  Oklahoma .
The Comanche  स्वदेश homecoming powwow  is held annually in Walters , Oklahoma in mid-July .
The Comanche spoke the Comanche language , a Numic language of the Uto-Aztecan family , sometimes classified as a Shoshone dialect ;  however , तभी परिचय 1 % of comanches बोलो it  today .
Ethan Frome is a novel published in 1911 by the Pulitzer Prize -winning  अमरीकी लेखक एडिथ  Wharton .
It is set in the fictitious town of  starkfield , मैसाचुसेट्स  .
the अनोखा थी adapted  into a film , Ethan Frome , in 1993 .
Times Square Studios ( TSS ) is an American television studio located in the  टाइम्स वर्गाकार पड़ोस of the मैनहटन बरो of नई यॉर्क  City , New York .
The studio is best known as the production home of ABC News ' Good Morning America ( GMA ) , a  morning न्यूज और बात कार्यक्रम और खण्ड लिये जीएमए on  ABC News Now .
The Las Vegas Strip World of  coca-cola संग्रहालय in  2003
Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores , restaurants , and vending machines in every  देश मगर क्यूबा और उत्तर कोरियाई  .
It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company of Atlanta , Georgia , and is often referred to simply as Coke ( a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March  27 , 1944  ) .
Originally intended as a patent medicine when it was invented in the late 19th century by John Pemberton , Coca-Cola was bought out by businessman Asa Griggs  candler , जिनकी विपणन tactics led कोक to इसके दबदबा of the संसार soft-drink  market throughout the 20th century .
The company produces concentrate , which is then sold  to licensed coca-cola  bottlers throughout the world .
The bottlers , who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company , produce finished  उत्पाद in डिब्बे और बोतलों इससे the  concentrate in combination with filtered water and sweeteners .
The bottlers then sell , distribute and merchandise  coca-cola to खुदरा स्टोर्स और वेंडिंग  machines .
Such bottlers include Coca-Cola  उद्यमों , जिससे is the largest सिंगल  Coca-Cola bottler in North America and western Europe .
The  coca-cola  Company also sells concentrate for soda fountains to major restaurants and food service distributors .
The Coca-Cola Company  रै , on अवसर  , introduced other cola drinks under the Coke brand name .
The most common of these is Diet Coke , with others including Caffeine-Free Coca-Cola , Diet Coke Caffeine-Free , Coca-Cola Cherry , Coca-Cola Zero ,  coca-cola  Vanilla , and special versions with lemon , lime or coffee .
Based on Interbrand 's  बेहतरीन वैश्विक ब्रांड 2011 , coca-cola  was the world 's most valuable brand .
प्रकार of  bar-lines
In musical notation  , a बार ( or  measure ) is a segment of time defined by a given number of beats , each of which are assigned a particular note value .
Dividing music into bars provides  नियमित सन्दर्भ अंक  to pin point locations within a piece of music .
It also makes written music  easier to follow , चूंकि  each bar of staff symbols can be read and played as a batch .
Typically , a piece consists of several bars of the same length , and in modern  musical संकेतन the क्रमांक of बीट्स in प्रत्येक बार is निर्दिष्ट  at the beginning of the score by the top number of a time signature ( such as 3/4 ) , while the bottom number indicates the note value of the beat ( the beat has a quarter note value in the 3/4 example ) .
The  शब्द बार is अधिक आम in  British English , and the word measure is more common in American English , although musicians generally understand both usages .
In American English , although the words bar and measure are often used interchangeably the correct use of  the शब्द 'bar ' refers तभी to the लंबवत लकीर itself , जबकि the शब्द 'measure  ' refers to the beats contained between bars .
In international usage , it is equally correct to speak of bar numbers and  माप संख्याएँ , e.g . ‘bars 9–16’ or ‘mm  . 9–16’ .
Along the same  लाइनों , it is हिकमत  to reserve the abbreviated form ‘bb .
3–4’  इत्यादि . लिये बीट्स तभी  ; bars should be referred to by name in full .
The first metrically complete measure within a piece of  म्यूज़िक is पुकारा ‘bar 1’ or ‘m  . 1’ .
When the piece begins with an anacrusis (  an incomplete  measure at the head of a piece of music ) , ‘bar 1’ or ‘m . 1’ is the following measure .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar  संयंत्र in स्पेन  features 15 hours of storage and can supply power 24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant  लाइट और ऊष्मा इससे the सूर्य , रै महरूम harnessed  by humans since ancient times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal  विद्युत , सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis  , which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar  or क्रियाशील सौर depending  on the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar  तकनीकों शामिल the उपयोग  of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive solar techniques include orienting a  भवन to the सूर्य , selecting सामग्री साथ  favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International  उर्जा एजेंसी कहा कि `` the विकास of  affordable , inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous , inexhaustible and mostly  import-independent संसाधन , बढ़ाएँ स्थिरता , reduce प्रदूषण  , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
These advantages  हैं वैश्विक  .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning  निवेश ; वे जरूर be बुद्धिमानी खर्च और need  to be widely shared '' .
Primary care may be provided in community  स्वास्थ्य केंद्रों  .
Primary care is  the स्वास्थ्य परवाह  given by a health care provider .
Typically this provider acts as the principal point of consultation for patients  भीतर a स्वास्थ्य परवाह प्रणाली और  coordinates other specialists that the patient may need .
Such a professional can be a primary care physician , such as a general practitioner or family physician , or depending on the locality , health  प्रणाली संगठन , और रोगी 's discretion , वे may देखिए a फार्मासिस्ट , a चिकित्सक सहायक , a नर्स practitioner , a नर्स ( ऐसे as in the संयुक्त किंगडम ) , a नैदानिक अधिकारी ( ऐसे  as in parts of Africa ) , or an Ayurvedic or other traditional medicine professional ( such as in parts of Asia ) .
Depending on the nature  of the स्वास्थ्य कंडीशन  , patients may then be referred for secondary or tertiary care .
`` Ocean Avenue '' is a song  अंकित by अमरीकी  pop punk group Yellowcard .
It  थी released in  February 2004 as the second single from Ocean Avenue and the third track .
It  is  known for bringing them into the mainstream , as it received numerous spins on MTV and increasing radio airplay .
Ocean Avenue is a street in Jacksonville , Florida , the band 's stomping grounds near  उनके ऊँची स्कूल , डगलस एंडरसन स्कूल of the कला , और  another street mentioned in the song , Cherry Street .
The name of  समंदर एवेन्यू in  Jacksonville is actually Beach Boulevard .
They left their original base  पीछे जब वे स्थानांतरित to लॉस  Angeles .
The song  थी प्रदर्शित on the  Much Music compilation album Big Shiny Tunes 9 .
A psychiatrist  is a चिकित्सक जो  specializes in psychiatry .
A psychiatrist specializes in the treatment of  दिमागी विकार  .
Psychiatrists are  प्राधिकृत to prescribe आयुर्विज्ञान , conduct  physical examinations , order and interpret laboratory tests , use psychotherapy and may order brain imaging studies such as computed tomography ( CT/CAT Scan ) , magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scanning .
Within the framework of the World Health Organization 's ( WHO ) definition of health as a state of complete physical , mental and social  well-being , और नहीं merely the अनुपस्थिति of बीमारी or  infirmity , reproductive health , or sexual health/hygiene , addresses the reproductive processes , functions and system at all stages of life .
Reproductive health , therefore , implies that people are able to have a responsible , satisfying and  safer sex जीवन और कि वे have the काबिलियत to  reproduce and the freedom to decide if , when and how often to do so .
One interpretation of this implies that men and women ought to be informed of and to have access to safe , effective , affordable and acceptable methods of birth control ; also access to appropriate health care services of sexual , reproductive medicine and implementation of health education programs to stress the  महत्व of महिलाओं to go सकुशल through गर्भावस्था और प्रसव could provide युगल  with the best chance of having a healthy infant .
On the other hand individuals do face inequalities  in reproductive स्वास्थ्य  services .
Inequalities vary based on socioeconomic  औकात , शिक्षा स्तर , आयु , नस्ल ,  religion , and resources available in their environment .
It is possible for example , that low income individuals lack the resources for appropriate health services and the knowledge to  जान कया is उचित  for maintaining reproductive health .
According  to the जो , `` reproductive और यौन ill-health  accounts for 20 % of the global burden of ill-health for women , and 14 % for men . ''
Reproductive  स्वास्थ्य is a भाग  of Sexual and reproductive health and rights .
This is a list of  एपीसोड लिये the डिज़्नी चैनल असली  series The Suite Life on Deck , which aired for three seasons on Disney Channel from September 26 , 2008 to May 6 , 2011 .
Core 2 is a brand encompassing a range of Intel 's consumer 64-bit x86-64 single- , dual- , and quad-core  microprocessors आधारित on the कोर microarchitecture  .
The single- and dual-core  मॉडल हैं single- die , whereas the quad-core  models comprise two dies , each containing two cores , packaged in a multi-chip module .
The introduction of Core 2 relegated the Pentium brand to the mid-range market , and reunified laptop and desktop CPU lines , which previously had been  विभाजित into the pentium 4 , pentium d ,  and Pentium M brands .
The Core 2 brand was introduced on 27 July 2006 , comprising the Solo ( single-core ) , Duo (  dual-core ) , क्वाड ( quad-core ) , और in 2007 , the चरम  ( dual- or quad-core CPUs for enthusiasts ) subbrands .
Intel Core 2 processors with vPro technology ( designed  लिये व्यवसायों ) शामिल the dual-core  and quad-core branches .
The Super Bowl is the annual championship game of the  नेशनल फ़ुटबॉल लीग ( एनएफएल ) , the उच्चतम स्तर of पेशेवर अमरीकी  football in the United States , culminating a season that begins in the late summer of the previous calendar year .
The Super  कटोरी उपयोग रोमन  numerals to identify each game , rather than the year in which it is held .
For example  , सुपर कटोरी i थी निभाई on जनवरी 15 , 1967 , following  the 1966 regular season , while Super Bowl XLVII was played on February 3 , 2013 , following the 2012 season .
The game was created as part of a merger agreement between the NFL and its then-rival  लीग , the अमरीकी  Football League ( AFL ) .
It was agreed that the two leagues ' champion  टीमों  would play in an AFL–NFL World Championship Game until the merger was to officially begin in 1970 .
After the merger  , प्रत्येक लीग थी redesignated as a `` सम्मेलन  `` , and the game was then played between the conference champions .
Currently , the National Football Conference ( NFC ) leads the series with 25 wins to 22 wins for the American  फ़ुटबॉल सम्मेलन ( afc ) .
The day on which the Super Bowl is  निभाई , अभी माना  by some a de facto American national holiday , is called `` Super Bowl Sunday `` .
It is the second-largest day for U.S. food consumption , after  थैंक्सगिविंग  Day .
In addition ,  the सुपर कटोरी रै अक्सर  been the most watched American television broadcast of the year .
Super Bowl XLV , played in  2011 , became the most-watched अमरीकी टेलीविज़न कार्यक्रम in इतिहास , आरेखण an औसत दर्शक of 111 लाख  viewers and taking over the spot held by the previous year 's Super Bowl , which itself had taken over the # 1 spot held for twenty-eight years by the final episode of M*A*S*H .
The Super Bowl is also among the most watched sporting events in the world , almost all being North  अमरीकी ऑडियंस , और is दूसरी to संघ फ़ुटबॉल ’s यूईएफए champions लीग  final as the most watched annual sporting event worldwide .
Because of its high  viewership , वाणिज्यिक airtime दौरान the सुपर कटोरी  broadcast is the most expensive of the year .
Due to the high cost of  निवेश in विज्ञापन on the सुपर कटोरी , कंपनियाँ  regularly develop their most expensive advertisements for this broadcast .
As a result , watching and discussing the broadcast 's  commercials रै become a significant पहलू of the इवेंट  .
In addition , many popular singers and musicians have performed during the event 's pre-game and halftime  ceremonies  because of the exposure .
Fiona  is a feminine  given name .
The name Fiona was invented , and first used , by the  स्कॉटिश कवि जेम्स macpherson  ( 1736–96 ) , author of the Ossian poems , which he claimed were translations from ancient Gaelic sources ( sources , when challenged , he never produced ) .
The name was subsequently used as a pseudonym by William Sharp ( 1855–1905 ) , who authored several romantic  works अंतर्गत the नाम  `` Fiona Macleod '' .
The name has since become popular in England ,   Scotland and Ireland .
The name is considered to be a Latinised form of the Gaelic  शब्द fionn , अर्थ  `` white '' , `` fair '' .
The name Fiona  is भी sometimes प्रयुक्त as an anglicisation of the irish-language  name Fíona , although these names are otherwise unrelated ( as Fíona is derived from an element meaning `` vine '' ) .
There is also a modern tendency  to equate the प्रामाणिक स्कॉटिश  Gaelic feminine name Fionnghal with Fiona .
The name Fiona  is उठती in लोकप्रियता  particularly in German -speaking countries .
Fiona was the 49th most popular name for baby girls born  in 2008 in जर्मनी  .
Fiona was tied for third place in the ranking of most popular names for baby  लड़कियों born in the  tiny principality of Liechtenstein in 2008 .
the नाम थी the 347th सबसे  popular name for girls born in the United States in 2008 , where it has ranked among the top 1,000 most popular names for girls since 1990 and among the top 500 since 1999 .
The name Fiona has been particularly popular for girls of Asian or Pacific  islander descent in नई यॉर्क नगर , जहाँ फिओना क्रमित as the नवीं सबसे  popular name for girls from those groups in 2007 .
Many  भाषाएं हैं प्रयुक्त  , or historically have been used in the United States .
The most commonly used  भाषा  is English .
There are also  अनेक भाषाएं स्वदेशी to उत्तर  America or to U.S. states or holdings in the Pacific region .
Languages brought  to the देश by colonists or आप्रवासियों इससे यूरोपीय , एशिया , or अन्य भाग of  the world make up a large portion of the languages currently used ; several languages , including creoles and sign languages , have also developed in the United States .
Approximately 337 languages are spoken or signed by the  जनसांख्यिकी , of जिससे 176 हैं स्वदेशी  to the area .
Fifty-two languages formerly spoken in the country 's territory are  अभी विलुप्त .
The variety of English  बोला in the संयुक्त राज्य  is known as American English .
English is the de facto national language of the United States , with 80 % of the population claiming it as a mother tongue , and some 95 % claiming to speak it `` well '' or ``  बहुत खूब ''  .
However ,  no आधिकारिक भाषा  exists at the federal level .
There have been several proposals to make English the national language in amendments to immigration reform bills , but none of these bills  रै become विधि साथ  the amendment intact .
The situation is quite varied at the state and territorial levels , with some states mirroring the federal policy of adopting no official language in  a de jure क्षमता , अन्य adopting अंग्रेज़ी अलोन , अन्य officially adopting अंग्रेज़ी as खूब as लोकल भाषाएं , और स्टिल अन्य  adopting a policy of de facto bilingualism .
Spanish is the second most  आम भाषा  in the country , and is spoken by over 12 % of the population .
The United States  holds the संसार 's पांचवां largest  Spanish-speaking population , outnumbered only by Mexico , Spain , Colombia , and Argentina .
throughout the southwestern संयुक्त राज्य , long-established  Spanish-speaking communities coexist with large numbers of more recent Hispanophone immigrants .
Although many new Latin American immigrants are less than fluent in English , nearly all  second-generation हिस्पैनिक अमेरिकी बोलो अंग्रेज़ी धड़ल्ले  , while only about half still speak Spanish .
According to the 2000 US census , people of German ancestry make up the  largest सिंगल जातीय समूह in the  United States , and the German language ranks fifth .
Italian , Polish , and French are still widely spoken among populations descending from immigrants from those countries in the early 20th century , but the use of these languages is  dwindling as the पुरानी पीढियां  die .
Russian  is भी  spoken by immigrant populations .
Tagalog and Vietnamese have  over एक लाख अध्यक्षों प्रत्येक in the संयुक्त  States , almost entirely within recent immigrant populations .
Both languages , along with the varieties of the Chinese language , Japanese , and  कोरियाई , हैं अभी  used in elections in Alaska , California , Hawaii , Illinois , New York , Texas , and Washington .
Native American languages are spoken in smaller pockets of the country ,  लकिन ये populations हैं अवरोहण , और the  languages are almost never widely used outside of reservations .
Hawaiian , although having few native speakers , is an  आधिकारिक भाषा साथ साथ  English at the state level in Hawaii .
The state government of  louisiana offers सेवाएं और दस्तावेज़ in  French , as does New Mexico in Spanish .
Besides English , Spanish , French , German , Navajo and other Native American languages , all other  भाषाएं हैं प्रायः सीखे इससे अप्रवासी पूर्वजो कि  came after the time of independence or learned through some form of education .
1990 's Pontiac  ग्रैंड  Am Sedan fender and quarter panel
On an automobile , a quarter panel ( or rear wing as it is known in British  अंग्रेज़ी ) is प्रायः माना the देह फलक जिससे goes between the पश्च द्वार और the ट्रंक और typically wraps around the व्हील खूब ; however , the  similar front section Fender ( vehicle ) , between the door and the hood , is sometimes incorrectly referred to as a quarter panel .
The quarter panel is  typically बना of चादर मेटल , लकिन is sometimes  made of fiberglass or fiber-reinforced plastic ; although , this varies with different makes and models .
A quarter panel is typically a welded on component of the  uni-body ढांचा or  Monocoque .
Replacement of a sheet metal quarter panel typically requires it to be cut off the vehicle and a replacement part to be  welded ( or sometimes बंधुआ ) to the  Vehicle .
Due to this high amount of specialized labor , a quarter panel may often be repaired  बल्कि than replaced by hammering आउट the क्षति  , and a body filler sometimes referred to as bondo to be applied to finalize the original surface .
Shropshire ( or ;  alternatively salop ; abbreviated , in छपाई  only , Shrops ) is a county in the West Midlands region of England .
It borders Wales to the west , Cheshire to  the उत्तर ,  Staffordshire to the east , Worcestershire to the south-east and Herefordshire to the south .
A unitary authority ( Shropshire Council ) was created on 1 April  2009 , लेने over इससे the पिछला  county council and 5 district councils , and covers most of the county .
The borough of Telford and Wrekin has  महरूम a पृथक एकात्मक प्राधिकार  since 1998 but continues to be included in the ceremonial county .
The county 's population and economy is centred on five towns : the county town of Shrewsbury , which is culturally and historically important and is located in the centre of the county ; Telford , a new town in the east which was constructed around a number of older towns , most notably Wellington ,  dawley और madeley , जिससे is आज the सबसे populous ; और oswestry in the north-west , bridgnorth बस to the  south of Telford , and Ludlow in the south .
The county has many further market towns , including Whitchurch in the north , Newport  बस to the north-east of telford , और मार्केट  Drayton in the north-east of the county .
The Ironbridge Gorge area is a UNESCO World Heritage Site , covering  ironbridge , coalbrookdale और a भाग of madeley  .
There  हैं , additionally , अन्य notable  historic industrial sites located around the county , such as at Shrewsbury , Broseley , Snailbeach and Highley as well as the Shropshire Union Canal .
The Shropshire Hills Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty covers about a quarter of the  काउंटी , मुख्यतः in the दक्षिण  .
Shropshire is one of England 's most rural and sparsely populated counties , with the population density of the Shropshire Council area  होने बस 91/km2 ( 337/sq  mi ) .
The Wrekin is one of the  सबसे प्रसिद्ध प्राकृतिक लैंडमार्क in the काउंटी  , though the highest hills are the Clee Hills , Stiperstones and the Long Mynd .
Wenlock Edge is another  significant भौगोलिक और geological  landmark .
In the low-lying northwest of the county ( and overlapping the border with Wales ) is the Fenn 's , Whixall and  bettisfield mosses नेशनल प्रकृति आरक्षित , एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण और बेहतरीन preserved  bogs in Britain .
The River Severn , Great Britain 's  longest नदी , रनों through the काउंटी , exiting into  Worcestershire via the Severn Valley .
Shropshire is  landlocked , और साथ an क्षेत्रफल  of , is England 's largest inland county .
The county flower is the  round-leaved  sundew .
For Eurostat purposes , the county ( less the unitary district of Telford and Wrekin ) is  a nuts 3 प्रदेश  ( code UKG22 ) .
The two Shropshire unitary areas ( covering all of the ceremonial county ) , together with the authorities covering the  ceremonial काउंटी of staffordshire  , comprise the `` Shropshire and Staffordshire '' NUTS 2 region .
The Big Bang Theory cast at Comic Con 2009 , from left : Kunal Nayyar , Simon Helberg , Kaley Cuoco , Jim Parsons , and  जॉनी galecki
The American sitcom The Big Bang Theory , created and executive produced by Chuck Lorre and Bill Prady , premiered  on सीबीएस on सितंबर 24 , 2007  .
The show centers on five characters : roommates Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter , two Caltech physicists ; Penny , a waitress and aspiring actress who lives across the hall ; and Leonard and Sheldon 's  मित्रों और co-workers aerospace इंजीनियर हावर्ड wolowitz , और astrophysicist राजेश koothrappali  .
Over time , several supporting characters have been  प्रचारित to अभिनीत भूमिकाएँ : लेस्ली winkle ( ऋतु 1 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु 2 नियमित ; ऋतु 3 अतिथि ) , a physicist सहयोगी , और , at अलग टाइम्स , a प्रेमी of दोनो लियोनार्ड और हावर्ड ; bernadette rostenkowski-wolowitz ( ऋतु 3 पुनरावर्ती ; ऋतु  4-present regular ) , a microbiologist , Howard 's fiancée and subsequent wife , and former part-time waitress alongside Penny ; neuroscientist Amy Farrah Fowler ( season 3 guest ; season 4 recurring ; season 4-present regular ) , who joins the group after being matched to Sheldon on a dating website ; and comic book store-owner , Stuart Bloom ( seasons 2–5 recurring ; season 6-present regular ) , who replaces Howard as Raj 's best friend when Howard is in space .
The show also features numerous supporting characters , each of whom  plays a prominent भूमिका in a छोटी समूह of एपीसोड  .
the a-team is an अमरीकी action-adventure  television series , running from 1983 to 1987 , about a fictional group of ex– United States Army Special Forces personnel who work as soldiers of fortune , while on the run from the Army after being branded as war criminals for a `` crime they did n't commit `` .
A feature film based on the  श्रेणी थी released by 20th  Century Fox on June 11 , 2010 .
A comic book series , A-Team : Shotgun  विवाह , began  March 9 , 2010 .
Diana Prince is a fictional character appearing  regularly in कहानियां प्रकाशित  by DC Comics .
She debuted in Sensation Comics # 1 ( January 1942  ) और serves as the civilian और  secret identity of the superhero Wonder Woman .
The  अक्षर थी निर्मित  by Charles Moulton and Harry G. Peter .
Wat Phra  kaew ,  Bangkok , Thailand
There is no official state religion in the Thai constitution , which guarantees religious freedom for all  थाई नागरिकों , हालांकि the किंग is जरूरी by विधि to be बौद्ध  .
According  to the पिछला जनसांख्यिकी  ( 2000 ) 94.6 % of Thais are Buddhists of the Theravada tradition .
Muslims are the second largest  धार्मिक समूह in  Thailand at 4.6 % .
Thailand 's southernmost provinces - Pattani , Yala , Narathiwat and  भाग of songkhla  Chumphon have dominant Muslim populations , consisting of both ethnic Thai and Malay .
The southern  टिप of थाईलैंड is ज़्यादातर  ethnic Malays .
Christians , mainly Catholics , represent  0.7 % of  the population .
A small but influential community of Sikhs in Thailand and some  हिन्दुओं भी सजीव in the देश 's शहरों ,  and are heavily engaged in retail commerce .
There is also a small Jewish community in Thailand , dating back to  the 17th सदी  .
Since  2001 , मुस्लिम कार्यकर्ताओं , generally वर्णित by the थाई सरकारी  as terrorists or separatists , have rallied against the central government because of alleged corruption and ethnic bias on the part of officials .
Thailand 's Department of Religion , currently under the Ministry of Culture , is formally responsible for the registration of religious groups in Thailand  url_http जिससे थाम गुण through legally  established foundations .
It has oversight , along with the Immigration Police , over the work permits of missionaries who are `` expatriate  धार्मिक मजदूर '' of सब धर्मों  .
A value added tax ( VAT ) is a form  of  consumption tax .
From the  परिप्रेक्ष्य of the खरीदार  , it is a tax on the purchase price .
From  कि of the विक्रेता , it is a कर तभी on the  value added to a product , material , or service , from an accounting point of view , by this stage of its manufacture or distribution .
The  निर्माता  remits to the government the difference between these two amounts , and retains the rest for themselves to offset the taxes they had previously paid on the inputs .
The value added to a product by or with a business is the sale price charged to its  ग्राहक , ऋण the लागत of सामग्री और अन्य  taxable inputs .
A  vat is जैसे a बिक्री कर in  that ultimately only the end consumer is taxed .
It differs from the sales tax in that , with the latter , the tax is collected and remitted to the government only  एकबार , at the पाइंट of खरीदें  by the end consumer .
With the VAT , collections ,  remittances to the सरकारी  , and credits for taxes already paid occur each time a business in the supply chain purchases products .
A referee calling  a high-sticking  penaltyHigh
-sticking is the name of two infractions in the sport of ice hockey that may occur when  a खिलाड़ी intentionally or inadvertently  plays with his or her stick above the height of the shoulders or above the cross bar of a hockey goal .
This can  परिणाम in a stoppage  of play or in a penalty .
In the rules of the National Hockey League , high-sticking is defined as a penalty  in नियम 60 और as a  non-penalty foul in Rule 80 .
A stoppage in play results if a high stick comes in  सम्पर्क साथ the पक  and the team who touched it regains control of the puck .
However , play usually  continues if a खिलाड़ी छू the पक साथ  a high stick and the opposing team gains control of the puck .
If the puck goes into the opposing net after coming into contact with a high  स्टिक , the लक्ष्य is प्रतिबंधित  .
The  स्तर at जिससे a स्टिक is  considered too high for a goal is the crossbar of the net .
however , if a खिलाड़ी knocks  the puck into his own net with a high stick , the goal is allowed .
A penalty is assessed if a player strikes another player with a  ऊँची  stick .
The player is given  a नाबालिग दंड जबतक उसके ऊँची स्टिक caused an चोट ,  in which case the referee has the option to assess a double-minor , major or match penalty .
It is the  रेफरी 's discretion जिससे दंड to assess : the नियम काल्स लिये a दोगुना नाबालिग लिये an आकस्मिक चोट  , or a match penalty for a deliberate attempt to injure ( whether the opposition player was actually injured ) .
Injury is usually decided by the high stick causing bleeding , but the  उपस्थिति of रक्त  does not automatically mean an extra penalty is awarded .
कुछ referees have महरूम ज्ञात to पुरस्कार an अतिरिक्त दंड बगैर the उपस्थिति of  blood if the referee determines that the injury sustained was sufficient to warrant a double-minor penalty .
Typical modern memory card reader , compatible with many  आम स्वरुप
A memory card  रीडर is a यंत्र , typically having  a USB interface , for accessing the data on a memory card such as a CompactFlash ( CF ) , Secure Digital ( SD ) or MultiMediaCard ( MMC ) .
Most card readers also  प्रस्ताव लिखें काबिलियत  , and together with the card , this can function as a pen drive .
Some printers and personal computers  have a built-in कार्ड  reader .
A multi card reader is used for communication with more than one type of flash  मेमोरी कार्ड .
Multi card readers do not have built-in memory capacity ,  लकिन हैं समर्थ to accept  multiple types and styles of memory cards .
The number of compatible memory cards varies from reader to reader and can  शामिल अधिक than 20 अलग प्रकार  .
The number of  अलग मेमोरी ताश कि a मल्टी कार्ड रीडर  can accept is expressed as x-in-1 , with x being a figure of merit indicating the number of memory cards accepted , such as 35-in-1 .
There are three categories of card readers sorted by the  प्रकार और मात्रा of the कार्ड  slots : single card reader ( e.g . 1x SD-only ) , multi card reader ( e.g . 9-in-1 ) and series card reader ( e.g . 4x SD only ) .
Some kinds of memory cards with their own USB  कृत्यों do नहीं need the कार्ड रीडर ,  such as the Intelligent Stick memory card , which can plug directly into a USB slot .
The USB device class  प्रयुक्त is  0x08 .
धमकाना is हानिकारक to विद्यार्थी  ' well-being and development .
Bullying is the use of force  or coercion to गाली  or intimidate others .
The behavior can be habitual and  involve an असंतुलन of  social or physical power .
It can include verbal harassment or threat , physical assault or coercion and may be directed repeatedly towards particular victims , perhaps on  grounds of रेस , धर्म , लिंग , कामुकता , or क्षमता  .
If bullying is done by a group ,  it is पुकारा mobbing  .
The victim of bullying is sometimes referred  to as a `` निशाना  '' .
Bullying  can be पारिभाषित in  many different ways .
The UK currently has no  विधिक परिभाषा of धमकाना  , while some U.S. states have laws against it .
धमकाना consists  of three basic types of abuse – emotional , verbal , and physical .
It  typically involves हल्का  methods of coercion such as intimidation .
धमकाना सीमाएँ इससे सरल one-on-one धमकाना to अधिक जटिल  bullying in which the bully may have one or more `` lieutenants '' who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities .
Bullying in school and the  कार्यस्थल is भी referred to as  peer abuse .
रॉबर्ट W.  Fuller has analyzed bullying in the context of rankism .
A  धमकाना संस्कृति  can develop in any context in which human beings interact with each other .
This includes school , church , family ,  the कार्यस्थल  , home , and neighborhoods .
Happy slapping in the Instituto  क्षेत्रीय federico  Errázuriz , Santa Cruz , Chile
Laura Bush and Rae Leigh Bradbury ( formerly missing ) on April 4 , 2007 , in Austin , Texas , after the 8-year-old introduced Mrs.  बुश दौरान घोषणा  of the future opening of the Texas Regional Office of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children .
Rae Leigh was the first child in the U.S. to be recovered as a result of an AMBER Alert when she  थी 8 सप्ताह बूढ़ा in नवम्बर 1998  .
An  एम्बर चेतावनी or a चाइल्ड abduction आपात ( वही कोड : cae  ) is a child abduction alert system originating in 1996 , now employed in 9 countries .
AMBER is  officially a backronym लिये अमेरिका 's लापता :  Broadcasting Emergency Response , named for Amber Hagerman , a 9-year-old abducted and murdered in Arlington , Texas in 1996 .
Alternate regional alert names were once used ; in Georgia , `` Levi 's Call '' ( named after Levi Frady ) ; in Hawaii , `` Maile Amber Alert '' ( after Maile Gilbert ) ;  और अरकंसास , `` मॉर्गन उपनाम एम्बर चेतावनी '' ( in  memory of Morgan Chauntel Nick ) .
AMBER Alerts are distributed via commercial radio stations , Internet radio ,  उपग्रह रेडियो , टेलीविज़न स्टेशन , और केबल tv by the आपात चेतावनी  System and NOAA Weather Radio ( where they are termed `` Child Abduction Emergency '' or `` Amber Alerts '' ) .
The alerts are also issued via e-mail , electronic traffic-condition signs , the LED billboards which  हैं स्तिथ बाहर of नए walgreens  locations , along with the LED/LCD signs of billboard companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor , CBS Outdoor and Lamar , or through wireless device SMS text messages .
AMBER Alert has also teamed up with Google  और फेसबुक to रिले  information regarding an AMBER Alert to an ever growing demographic .
Those interested in subscribing to receive AMBER Alerts in their area via SMS  संदेश can विज़िट बेतार एम्बर चेतावनियाँ , जिससे हैं offered by  law as free messages .
In some states , the display scrollboards in  सामने of लॉटरी  terminals are also used .
The decision to declare an AMBER Alert is made by each police organization ( in many cases , the  राज्य  police or highway patrol ) which investigates each of the abductions .
Public information in an AMBER  चेतावनी प्रायः consists of the नाम और  description of the abductee , a description of the suspected abductor , and a description and license plate number of the abductor 's vehicle , if available .
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States  अध्यक्ष विधेयक क्लिंटन admitted to having था an  `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which  शामिल क्लिंटन 's महाभियोग  ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
House of Night is a series of vampire  -थीमd काल्पनिक novels by अमरीकी लेखक P. C.  Cast and her daughter Kristin Cast .
It follows  the adventures of zoey  Redbird , a sixteen-year-old girl who has just become a `` fledgling vampyre '' and is required to attend the House of Night boarding school in Tulsa , Oklahoma .
The series  रै महरूम on the नई यॉर्क टाइम्स बेहतरीन विक्रेता सूची लिये  63 weeks and there are over seven million copies in print in North America alone .
the छठे अनोखा , इम्तिहान  , which went on sale on October 27 , 2009 with a first printing of a million copies , entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1 .
In January , 2010 , Gezeichnet , a  जर्मनी अनुवाद of चिह्नित  , reached the # 1 spot on the Der Spiegel bestseller list .
The series has so far sold more  than टेन लाख किताबे  in 39 countries .
Burned was released on  अप्रैल 27 , 2010 , और जैसे इम्तिहान  , it entered the USA Today bestseller list that week at # 1 .
Awakened  , released in जनवरी  , 2011 , also entered the list at # 1 .
The series , which is published by St Martin 's Press is  नियोजित to शामिल बारह  books .
In 2008 , plans for a film adaptation were  भी घोषित  .
The tenth book in the series , Hidden , was  released on अक्तूबर 16 , 2012  .
The second book in the novellas ( which give backgrounds on supporting  वर्ण ) , lenobia 's प्रण , थी released  January 31 , 2012 .
Book eleven is currently called Revealed , and the Casts have  घोषित कि दो अधिक novellas  , Neferet’s Curse , planned to be released February 19 , 2013 , and a prequel novel about Kalona , are to be released to coincide with the eleventh and twelfth books .
In Greek mythology , the Trojan War was waged against the  नगर of ट्रॉय by the achaeans (  Greeks ) after Paris of Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus king of Sparta .
The  युद्ध is एक of the सबसे महत्वपूर्ण कार्यक्रम in यूनानी  mythology and has been narrated through many works of Greek literature , most notably through Homer 's Iliad and the Odyssey .
The  इलियड relates a भाग of  the last year of the siege of Troy ; the Odyssey describes Odysseus 's journey home .
Other  भाग of the युद्ध हैं contained  in a cycle of epic poems , which have survived through fragments .
Episodes from the war provided material for Greek tragedy and other  works of यूनानी साहित्य  , and for Roman poets including Virgil and Ovid .
the युद्ध originated इससे a  quarrel between the goddesses Athena , Hera , and Aphrodite , after Eris , the goddess of strife and discord , gave them a golden apple , sometimes known as the Apple of Discord , marked `` for the fairest '' .
Zeus sent the goddesses to  पेरिस , जो judged कि aphrodite  , as the `` fairest '' , should receive the apple .
In exchange , Aphrodite made Helen , the most beautiful of all women and wife of Menelaus , fall in love with Paris , who  took उसके to ट्रॉय  .
Agamemnon , king of Mycenae and the brother of Helen 's husband Menelaus , led an expedition of  achaean सैनिकों to ट्रॉय और besieged the नगर लिये टेन सालो क्युकी  of Paris ' insult .
After the deaths of many heroes , including the Achaeans Achilles and Ajax , and the Trojans  हेक्टर और पेरिस , the नगर गिरी  to the ruse of the Trojan Horse .
The Achaeans slaughtered the Trojans ( except for some of the women and children whom they kept or sold as  स्लेव ) और desecrated the मंदिरों , यूँ कमाई  the gods ' wrath .
Few of the Achaeans returned safely to their homes and many founded  colonies in दूर shores  .
The Romans later traced their origin to Aeneas  , एक of the ट्रोजन्स , जो थी कहा to have led the surviving  Trojans to modern-day Italy .
The  प्राचीन यूनानियों विचार कि the trojan  War was a historical event that had taken place in the 13th or 12th century BC , and believed that Troy was located in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles .
By modern times , both the war and the city  यहूद widely believed  to be non-historical .
In 1868 , however , the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert , who convinced Schliemann that  ट्रॉय थी at hissarlik और schliemann took over  Calvert 's excavations on property belonging to Calvert ; this claim is now accepted by most scholars .
Whether there is any historical reality behind the  trojan  War is an open question .
Many scholars  मानना कि वहीँ is a ऐतिहासिक कोर to the टेल , हालांकि  this may simply mean that the Homeric stories are a fusion of various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze Age .
Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a specific historical conflict usually date it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC , often  preferring the तिथियाँ दिए by इरैटोस्थनिज़ , 1194–1184 bc , जिससे roughly corresponds साथ पुरातत्व प्रमाण  of a catastrophic burning of Troy VIIa .
Anarchists have employed certain  प्रतीकों लिये उनके कारण , सहित सबसे prominently the circle-a  and the black flag , although anarchists have historically largely denied the importance of symbols to political movement .
Since the revival of anarchism around the start of the  21st-century संयुक्त साथ the वृद्धि of  the anti-globalization movement , anarchist cultural symbols are widely present .
The greater palatine canal ( or pterygopalatine canal ) is a passage in the skull that transmits  the वृहद palatine धमनी , रग , और तंत्रिका  between the pterygopalatine fossa and the oral cavity .
Surface temperature of Antarctica in winter and summer from the European Centre for  medium-range मौसम forecasts
The climate of  अंटार्कटिक is the  coldest on the whole of Earth .
Antarctica has the lowest naturally occurring temperature ever recorded on the ground on  धरती : −89.2 °c ( −128.6  °F ) at Vostok Station .
It is also extremely dry ( technically a  मरुस्थल ) , averaging 166 mm ( 6.5 in  ) of precipitation per year .
Even so ,  on सबसे भाग of the महाद्वीप the  snow rarely melts and is eventually compressed to become the glacial ice that makes up the ice sheet .
Weather fronts rarely penetrate far into  the महाद्वीप  .
Most of Antarctica has an ice cap  जलवायु ( köppen ef ) साथ बहुत ठंडा , generally अत्यधिक शुष्क मौसम  throughout the year and no month averaging above 0 °C ( 32 °F ) .
Some fringe coastal areas have a tundra climate ( Köppen ET ) with a short   summer averaging above freezing , and much higher precipitation .
Current head coach Mike Tomlin , during the  2007 ऋतु
The Pittsburgh Steelers franchise has had 16 head  कोच throughout इसके इतिहास  .
Founded as the Pittsburgh Pirates in , the name was changed to the Steelers prior  to the ऋतु to  celebrate the city 's heritage of producing steel .
Joe Bach served two separate terms as head coach and Walt Kiesling served three  पृथक शर्तें  .
During the and seasons ,  due to the राशि of खिलाड़ी  who fought in World War II , the Steelers combined their team with Philadelphia and Chicago , respectively .
During these seasons , Steelers ' coach Walt Kiesling shared coaching duties with Greasy  neale और फिल  Handler , who have not been included within this list .
Struggling for much of the franchise 's early  सालो , the टोली 's पहला  season with more wins than losses was coached by Jock Sutherland in .
in , अंतर्गत sutherland , the स्टीलर्स  played their first playoff game against the Philadelphia Eagles .
Ten of the 16 head coaches spent their entire professional coaching careers with the franchise , including John McNally , Walt Kiesling and  चक noll , जो have भी महरूम  voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame .
One of  तभी चार मेन to कोच  the same team for 23 years , Chuck Noll retired in .
Noll is also the only coach in National Football  लीग इतिहास to  win four Super Bowls .
Bill Cowher , Noll 's replacement ,  coached the स्टीलर्स to उनके पांचवां  Super Bowl victory , in 2005 .
The Steelers sixth Super Bowl win came in Super Bowl XLIII , while head coached by Mike Tomlin , the team  's वर्तमान सिर कोच  .
In criminal  विधि , धोखाधड़ी is जानबूझकर  deception made for personal gain or to damage another individual ; the related adjective is fraudulent , and verb is defraud .
Fraud is a crime and a civil law violation , though the specific  दण्ड विधि परिभाषा varies  by legal jurisdiction .
Defrauding people or entities of money or  valuables is a आम purpose  of fraud .
A  hoax भी involves deception , लकिन बगैर the इरादे  of gain or of damaging or depriving the victim .
धोखाधड़ी is a रक्षा  in a civil action for breach of contract or specific performance of a contract .
Fraud is a basis for  निष्पक्ष क्षेत्राधिकार  .
Passover , or Pesach ( from :  in यहूदी , यहूदी ) , tiberian : , आधुनिक यहूदी : /ˈpesaχ/ pesah  , Pesakh , Yiddish : Peysekh , Paysakh , Paysokh ) is an important Biblically -derived Jewish festival .
historically , साथ साथ shavuot ( `` पेंटेकोस्ट '' ) और sukkot ( `` झोपड़ियों '' ) , passover  is one of the three pilgrimage festivals ( Shalosh Regalim ) during which the entire population of the kingdom of Judah made a pilgrimage to the Temple in Jerusalem .
Samaritans still make this pilgrimage to Mount  gerizim , लकिन तभी मेन participate  in public worship .
Passover commences on the 15th of the Hebrew month of Nisan and lasts for either seven days ( in  इसराईल ) or आठ दिनों ( in the  diaspora ) .
In Judaism , a day commences at dusk  और lasts जबतक the following संध्या , यूँ the पहला दिन of passover  only begins after dusk of the 14th of Nisan and ends at dusk of the 15th day of the month of Nisan .
The rituals unique to the Passover  जश्न commence साथ the  Passover Seder when the 15th of Nisan has begun .
In the Northern Hemisphere Passover takes place in spring as the Torah prescribes it  : `` in the माह of [ the ] वसन्त '' ( בחדש האביב  ) .
It is  एक of the सबसे widely  observed Jewish holidays .
The Jewish people celebrate Passover as a commemoration of their liberation over 3,300 years ago by  परमेश्वर इससे गुलामी in प्राचीन मिश्र कि थी  ruled by the Pharaohs , and their birth as a nation under the leadership of Moses .
It commemorates the  स्टोरी of the exodus as वर्णित in the यहूदी  Bible especially in the Book of Exodus , in which the Israelites were freed from slavery in Egypt .
In the narrative of the Exodus , the Bible tells that God helped the Children of Israel  एस्केप इससे उनके गुलामी in मिश्र  by inflicting ten plagues upon the ancient Egyptians before the Pharaoh would release his Israelite slaves ; the tenth and worst of the plagues was the death of the Egyptian first-born .
The Israelites were instructed to  चिह्नित the doorposts of उनके घरों साथ the रक्त of a slaughtered वसन्त मेमने  and , upon seeing this , the spirit of the Lord knew to pass over the first-born in these homes , hence the name of the holiday .
वहीँ is कुछ  debate over where the term is actually derived from .
When the Pharaoh freed the Israelites , it is said that they left in such a hurry that they  could नहीं इंतजार लिये ब्रैड आटा to वृद्धि ( leaven )  .
In commemoration  , लिये the अवधि of passover no leavened  bread is eaten , for which reason it is called `` The Festival of the Unleavened Bread '' .
यूँ matzo ( चपटा unleavened  bread ) is eaten during Passover and it is a symbol of the holiday .
Halley 's Comet or Comet Halley ( or ) , officially designated  1p/halley , is the best-known of  the short-period comets and is visible from Earth every 75–76 years .
Halley is  the तभी short-period धूमकेतु  that is clearly visible to the naked eye from Earth , and thus the only naked-eye comet that might appear twice in a human lifetime .
Other naked-eye comets may be brighter and  अधिक spectacular , लकिन होगा  appear only once in thousands of years .
Halley 's returns to the  भीतरी सौर प्रणाली have महरूम observed  and recorded by astronomers since at least 240 BCE .
Clear records of the comet 's appearances were made by Chinese , Babylonian , and medieval European  chroniclers , लकिन यहूद  not recognized as reappearances of the same object at the time .
The comet 's periodicity was first determined in 1705 by English astronomer Edmond  हैली , बाद जिसको it is अभी नामित  .
Halley 's Comet last appeared in the inner Solar  प्रणाली in 1986 और होगा अगला  appear in mid-2061 .
During its 1986 apparition , Halley became the first comet to be observed in detail by spacecraft ,  providing the पहला observational आंकड़ा on the ढांचा of a धूमकेतु केंद्रक  and the mechanism of coma and tail formation .
These observations supported a number of longstanding hypotheses about comet construction , particularly Fred Whipple 's `` dirty snowball '' model , which correctly predicted that Halley would be composed of a mixture of volatile  ices – ऐसे as जल , कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड और अमोनिया – और धूल  .
The missions also provided data which substantially  reformed  and reconfigured these ideas ; for instance it is now understood that Halley 's surface is largely composed of dusty , non-volatile materials , and that only a small portion of it is icy .
anti-communism  is opposition to communism .
Organized anti-communism developed in  प्रतिक्रिया to the वृद्धि of साम्यवादी , विशेषकर बाद the 1917  October Revolution in Russia and reaching global dimensions during the Cold War .
Most anti-communists reject the  अवधारणा of ऐतिहासिक भौतिकवाद , जिससे  is a central idea in Marxism .
Anti-communists reject the Marxist belief that capitalism will be followed by  समाजवादी और साम्यवादी , बस as सामंतवाद  was followed by capitalism .
Anti-communists question the validity of the Marxist claim that the socialist state  होगा `` wither दूर '' जब  it becomes unnecessary in a true communist society .
Anti-communists argue that the repression in the early years of  bolshevik नियम , जबकि नहीं as चरम as कि दौरान जोसेफ स्टालिन 's नियम , थी स्टिल कठोर by उचित मानकों , citing उदाहरण ऐसे as  Felix Dzerzhinsky 's secret police , which eliminated numerous political opponents by extrajudicial executions , and the brutal crushing of the Kronstadt rebellion and Tambov rebellion .
Some  anti-communists  refer to both Communism and fascism as totalitarianism , seeing similarity between the actions of communist and fascist governments .
Historian Robert Conquest  रै argued कि साम्यवादी थी जिम्मेदार  for tens of millions of deaths during the 20th century .
Opponents argue that Communist  पार्टियों कि have आइये to शक्ति have  tended to be rigidly intolerant of political opposition .
These opponents claim that most Communist countries have shown no signs of advancing  इससे मार्क्स 's समाजवादी  stage of economy to an ideal communist stage .
Rather ,  कम्युनिस्ट सरकारें have महरूम  accused of creating a new ruling class ( a Nomenklatura ) , with powers and privileges greater than those previously enjoyed by the upper classes in the non- communist regimes .
Gil Heron ( 9 April 1922 –  27 नवम्बर  2008 ) was a Jamaican professional footballer .
He was the first  ब्लैक खिलाड़ी to खेल लिये स्कॉटिश  club Celtic , and was the father of poet and musician Gil Scott-Heron .
He died in  डेट्रॉयट of a दिल  attack on 27 November 2008 .
The soybean ( US ) or soya bean ( UK ) ( Glycine max ) is a species of legume native to East  एशिया , widely grown लिये इसके खाद्य  bean which has numerous uses .
The plant is classed as an oilseed rather than a pulse by the UN Food and  agricultural संगठन ( fao  ) .
Fat-free ( defatted ) soybean meal is a significant and cheap source of protein for animal feeds and many  prepackaged meals ; सोया सब्ज़ी  oil is another product of processing the soybean crop .
For example , soybean products such as textured vegetable protein ( TVP ) are  संघटक in अनेक मांस  and dairy analogues .
Soybeans produce significantly  अधिक प्रोटीन प्रति एकड़ than  most other uses of land .
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans include soy milk  , और इससे the latter टोफू और टोफू स्किन  .
Fermented foods include soy sauce , fermented bean paste , natto ,  और tempeh , among अन्य  .
The oil is used in many  औद्योगिक  applications .
The main producers of soy are the   United States ( 35 % ) , Brazil ( 27 % ) , Argentina ( 19 % ) , China ( 6 % ) and India ( 4 % ) .
The beans contain significant amounts of phytic acid ,  alpha-linolenic एसिड , और isoflavones  .
Harrison Ford ( born July 13 , 1942 ) is an American  फिल्मी कर्ता और निर्माता .
He is famous for his  प्रदर्शन as हान सोलो in the असली स्टार युद्धों त्रयी  and the title character of the Indiana Jones film series .
Ford is also known for his roles as Rick Deckard in Blade Runner , John Book in Witness and Jack Ryan in Patriot Games and Clear  और उपस्थित  Danger .
His career has spanned six decades and includes roles in several Hollywood blockbusters , including Presumed Innocent , The  भगोड़े  , Air Force One , and What Lies Beneath .
At one point , four of the top six box-office hits  of सब समय  included one of his roles .
पाँच of उसके films  have been inducted into the National Film Registry .
In 1997 , Ford was ranked No . 1  in साम्राज्य `` the शीर्ष 100 फिल्म  Stars of All Time '' list .
, the United States domestic box office grosses of Ford 's films total  over us $ 3.5 अरब , साथ विश्वव्यापी  grosses surpassing $ 6 billion , making Ford the third highest grossing U.S. domestic box-office star .
Ford  is the  husband of actress Calista Flockhart .
A tube of  chapstick
ChapStick is a brand name for lip balm manufactured  by फाइजर उपभोक्ता healthcare और प्रयुक्त in अनेक देशों  worldwide .
It is intended to help treat and prevent chapped lips  ; hence the नाम .
Many  किस्में भी  include sunscreen in order to prevent sunburn .
Due to its popularity , the term has become a  genericized ट्रेडमार्क  .
It popularly refers to any lip balm contained  in a lipstick-style ट्यूब और लागू  in the same manner as lipstick .
However , the term is still a registered trademark , with  अधिकारों exclusively  owned by Pfizer .
In Sweden and in the United Kingdom , the  उत्पाद 's प्रमुख प्रतिस्पर्धी is lypsyl , बना by novartis  Consumer Health , which is distributed in similar packaging to ChapStick .
George Berkeley ( ; 12 March 168514 January 1753 ) , also known as Bishop Berkeley ( Bishop of Cloyne ) , was an Anglo-Irish  पारस जिनकी प्राथमिक उपलब्धि थी the उन्नति of a सिद्धान्त he  called `` immaterialism '' ( later referred to as `` subjective idealism `` by others ) .
This  सिद्धान्त झुठलाए the अस्तित्व of सामग्री पदार्थ और बजाय contends  that familiar objects like tables and chairs are only ideas in the minds of perceivers , and as a result can not exist without being perceived .
Thus , as Berkeley famously put it , for  शारीरिक वस्तुएँ `` esse est percipi ''  ( `` to be is to be perceived `` ) .
Berkeley is also known for his critique of abstraction , an important premise in his  तर्क लिये  immaterialism .
In 1709 , Berkeley published his first major work , , in which he discussed the limitations of human vision  और उन्नत the  theory that the proper objects of sight are not material objects , but light and colour .
This foreshadowed his chief philosophical work A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge in 1710 which , after its poor reception , he rewrote in dialogue form and published under the  शीर्षक तीन संवाद  between Hylas and Philonous in 1713 .
In this book , Berkeley 's views were  represented by philonous ( यूनानी  : 'lover of mind ' ) , while Hylas ( Greek : 'matter ' ) embodies the Irish thinker’s opponents , in particular John Locke .
बर्कली argued विरूद्ध सर इसहाक़  Newton 's doctrine of absolute space , time and motion in De Motu ( on Motion ) , published 1721 .
His  वितर्क यहूद a precursor  to the views of Mach and Einstein .
In 1732 , he published  alciphron , a ईसाई क्षमाप्रार्थी विरूद्ध the free-thinkers  , and in 1734 , he published The Analyst , an empiricist critique of the foundations of infinitesimal calculus , which was influential in the development of mathematics .
His last major philosophical work , Siris ( 1744 ) , begins by  वकालत the औषधीय उपयोग of तारकोल जल  , and then continues to discuss a wide range of topics including science , philosophy , and theology .
Interest in Berkeley 's work increased after World War II , because he tackled many of the issues of paramount interest to philosophy in the 20th century such as the problems of  बोध  , the difference between primary and secondary qualities , and the importance of language .
Qingdao ( ) , historically known as Tsingtao , is a major city in eastern Shandong province , Eastern  चीन  , with a population of over 8.715 million ( 2010 census ) .
Its built up area , made  of 6 शहरी जिले और 4 county-level  cities , is home to about 4,896,000 inhabitants in 2010 .
It borders Yantai to the northeast , Weifang to the west and  rizhao to the दक्षिणपश्चिम  .
Qīng ( ) in Chinese  अर्थात् `` ग्रीन '' or  `` lush '' , while dǎo ( ) means `` island '' .
Qingdao is administered  at the sub-provincial  level .
Lying across the Shandong Peninsula while looking out to the Yellow Sea , Qingdao  is a प्रमुख seaport  , naval base , and industrial centre .
It is also the site of the  tsingtao ब्रेवरी  .
The world 's longest sea bridge , the Qingdao Haiwan Bridge , links the main  शहरी क्षेत्रफल of चिंगदाओ  with Huangdao district , straddling the Jiaozhou Bay sea areas .
Qingdao is named  चीन 's सबसे livable  city .
Mimivirus is a viral genus containing a single identified  प्रजाति नामित acanthamoeba polyphaga  mimivirus ( APMV ) , or is a group of phylogenetically related large viruses ( designated usually MimiN ) .
In colloquial speech , APMV is more  commonly referred to as बस ``  mimivirus '' .
Until October 2011 , when a larger virus Megavirus chilensis was  वर्णित , it था the largest capsid व्यास of  all known viruses .
Mimivirus has a large and complex genome  compared साथ सबसे अन्य  viruses .
Mimivirus , short for `` mimicking  microbe '' , is so पुकारा to प्रतिबिंबित  its large size and apparent Gram-staining properties .
The Mexican War of Independence ( 1810–1821 ) was an armed  विरोध between the लोगों of मैक्सिको और the स्पेनी औपनिवेशिक  authorities which started on September 16 , 1810 .
The movement , which became known as the Mexican War of Independence , was led by Mexican-born Spaniards  , mestizos और amerindians जो sought  independence from Spain .
It started as an idealistic peasants ' rebellion against their colonial masters , but  ended as an असंभावित गठबंधन between मैक्सिकन ex-royalists और  Mexican guerrilla insurgents .
Crohn 's disease , also  ज्ञात as crohn सिंड्रोम और क्षेत्रीय enteritis , is a प्रकार of जलन bowel बीमारी  that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus , causing a wide variety of symptoms .
It primarily causes abdominal pain , diarrhea ( which may be bloody if inflammation is at its worst ) , vomiting ( can be continuous ) , or weight loss , but may also cause complications outside the gastrointestinal tract such as skin rashes ,  गठिया , सूजन of the नजर , थकान  , and lack of concentration .
Crohn 's disease is caused by  interactions between पर्यावरणीय  , immunological and bacterial factors in genetically susceptible individuals .
This results in a chronic inflammatory disorder , in which the body 's immune system attacks the gastrointestinal tract  संभवतः निर्देशित at सूक्ष्मजैविक antigens  .
Crohn 's disease has wrongly been described as an autoimmune  बीमारी in the पास्ट ; हाल  investigators have described it as an immune deficiency state .
There is a genetic association with Crohn 's disease , primarily with  विसंगतियाँ of the nod2 जीन और इसके प्रोटीन , जिससे होश  bacterial cell walls .
Siblings of affected individuals  हैं at उच्चतर  risk .
Males and females  हैं बराबर  affected .
Smokers are two times more likely  to develop  Crohn 's disease than nonsmokers .
Crohn 's disease affects between 400,000  और 600,000 लोगों in  North America .
Prevalence  estimates लिये उत्तरी यूरोपीय  have ranged from 27–48 per 100,000 .
Crohn 's disease tends to present initially in the teens and twenties , with another  शिखर incidence in the fifties to seventies , हालांकि the बीमारी can  occur at any age .
There is no known pharmaceutical or surgical cure for  crohn 's बीमारी  .
Treatment options  हैं प्रतिबंधित to controlling  symptoms , maintaining remission , and preventing relapse .
The disease was named after gastroenterologist Burrill Bernard Crohn , who , in 1932 , together with two other colleagues at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York ,  वर्णित a श्रेणी of मरीजों साथ सूजन of the टर्मिनल ileum , the क्षेत्रफल सबसे commonly प्रभावित  by the illness .
This is an incomplete list of the  tallest इमारतें  and structures by country .
The list directly includes the tallest buildings and structures for each country , and where  उचित , it भी अंक  to more detailed country-specific lists .
Rough and Ready is  a census-designated  place in Nevada County , California , United States .
It is located west of  ग्रास घाटी  , California , approximately 62 miles ( 100 km ) from Sacramento .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  963 at the 2010 census .
YouTube is a video-sharing website , created by three former PayPal  कर्मचारी in फ़रवरी 2005 , on जिससे उपयोक्ता can अपलोड  , view and share videos .
The company is based in San Bruno , California , and uses Adobe Flash Video and HTML5 technology to  प्रदर्शक a चौड़ी किस्में of user-generated वीडियो सामग्री , सहित फिल्म क्लिप्स , tv  clips , and music videos , as well as amateur content such as video blogging , short original videos , and educational videos .
Most of the content on YouTube has been uploaded by individuals , although media corporations including CBS , the BBC , Vevo , Hulu , and other organizations offer some of their material  via the साईट , as  part of the YouTube partnership program .
Unregistered users can watch videos , while registered  उपयोक्ता can अपलोड an असीमित  number of videos .
Videos  माना to contain potentially  offensive content are available only to registered users at least 18 years old .
In November 2006 , YouTube , LLC was bought by  google लिये us $ 1.65 अरब , और operates  as a subsidiary of Google .
Sister Act is a musical written by Cheri Steinkellner and Bill Steinkellner with additional book material by  डगलस कार्टर beane , साथ गीत by ग्लेन स्लेटर और म्यूज़िक by एलन menken  .
It is  आधारित on the hit 1992  film comedy of the same name .
The 2009 West End production was produced by Stage Entertainment , Whoopi Goldberg ,  और माइकल रेनो लिये  Sis Acts LLC .
Goldberg is also a  निर्माता of the  2011 Broadway adaptation .
Microsoft DirectX is a collection  of  application programming interfaces ( APIs ) for handling tasks related to multimedia , especially game programming and video , on Microsoft platforms .
Originally , the names of these APIs all began with Direct  , ऐसे as direct3d , directdraw  , DirectMusic , DirectPlay , DirectSound , and so forth .
The name DirectX was coined as shorthand term for all of these APIs ( the X standing in for the  particular api names ) और जल्द became the नाम of the संग्रहण  .
When Microsoft later set out to develop a gaming console , the X was used as the basis of the name  एक्सबॉक्स to indicate कि the कंसोल  was based on DirectX technology .
The X initial has been carried forward in the naming of APIs designed for the Xbox such as XInput and the Cross-platform Audio Creation Tool ( XACT ) ,  जबकि the डाइरेक्टएक्स पैटर्न रै महरूम जारी लिये खिड़कियाँ api  such as Direct2D and DirectWrite .
Direct3D ( the 3D graphics API within DirectX ) is widely used in the development of video games for Microsoft Windows , Microsoft Xbox , Microsoft Xbox 360 and  कुछ  Sega Dreamcast games .
Direct3D is also used by other software  अनुप्रयोग लिये  visualization and graphics tasks such as CAD/CAM engineering .
As Direct3D is the most widely publicized component of DirectX , it is common to see the names `` DirectX  '' और `` direct3d '' प्रयुक्त interchangeably  .
The DirectX software development kit ( SDK ) consists of runtime libraries in redistributable binary  रूप , साथ साथ accompanying दस्तावेज़ीकरण और headers  for use in coding .
Originally ,  the runtimes  were only installed by games or explicitly by the user .
Windows 95 did not launch with DirectX , but DirectX was  शामिल साथ खिड़कियाँ 95 oem सेवा  Release 2 .
Windows 98  और खिड़कियाँ nt 4.0 दोनो  shipped with DirectX , as has every version of Windows released since .
The SDK is available as a  फ़्री डाउनलोड  .
While the runtimes are proprietary , closed-source software , source code is provided for most of the SDK  नमूने  .
Starting with the release   of Windows 8 Developer Preview , DirectX SDK has been integrated into Windows SDK .
direct3d 9ex , direct3d 10 , और direct3d 11 हैं तभी उपलब्धियाँ लिये खिड़कियाँ विस्टा और  newer because each of these new versions was built to depend upon the new Windows Display Driver Model that was introduced for Windows Vista .
The new Vista/WDDM graphics architecture includes a new video memory manager supporting virtualization of graphics hardware for various applications and services like the Desktop  खिड़की मैनेजर  .
Quetzaltenango  , भी commonly ज्ञात  by its indigenous name , Xelajú , or more commonly , Xela , is the second largest city of Guatemala .
It  is दोनो the पूंजी of  Quetzaltenango Department and the municipal seat of Quetzaltenango municipality .
It has an estimated  जनसांख्यिकी of 224,703  .
The population is about  61 % स्वदेशी or amerindian  , 34 % Mestizo or ladino and 5 % European .
Quetzaltenango is located in a mountain valley at an elevation of 2,330 meters ( 7,655 ft )  ऊपर समुद्र स्तर at इसके न्यूनतम  part .
It may  पहुँचें ऊपर  2,400 meters within the city .
The  नगरपालिका of  Quetzaltenango consists of an area of .
Municipalities abutting the municipality of Quetzaltenango include : Salcajá , Cantel , Almolonga , Zunil , El Palmar , Concepción  chiquirichapa , सैन mateo , la esperanza , olintepeque  , and San Andrés Xecul .
All these municipalities are part of the Department of Quetzaltenango , except San Andrés Xecul which is a part  of the विभाग of totonicapán  .
The Epic of Gilgamesh  , an एपिक कविता इससे मेसोपोटामिया ,  is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature .
The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about  'Bilgamesh ' (  Sumerian for Gilgamesh ) , king of Uruk .
Four of these were used as source material for a combined  एपिक in अक्कादी .
This first combined epic , known as the `` Old Babylonian '' version ,  तिथियाँ to the 18th सदी bc और is titled बाद  its incipit , Shūtur eli sharrī ( `` Surpassing All Other Kings '' ) .
Only a few fragments of it have  बच  .
The later `` Standard Babylonian '' version dates from the 13th to the 10th centuries BC and  bears the incipit शा naqba īmuru  ( `` He who Saw the Deep '' ) .
Fragments of  लगभग दो  thirds of this longer , twelve-tablet version have been recovered .
Some of the  बेहतरीन नक़ल यहूद खोजा  in the library ruins of the 7th-century BC Assyrian king Ashurbanipal .
The story centers on a friendship between  gilgamesh और enkidu  .
Enkidu is a wild man created by the gods as Gilgamesh 's equal to distract  उसे इससे oppressing the लोगों of uruk  .
Together , they journey to the Cedar  पहाड़ to शिकस्त  Humbaba , its monstrous guardian .
Later they kill the Bull of Heaven , which the goddess Ishtar sends to punish  gilgamesh लिये spurning  her advances .
As a punishment for  ये क्रियाएँ , the  gods sentence Enkidu to death .
The second half of the epic focuses  on gilgamesh 's  distress at Enkidu 's death , and his quest for immortality .
In order to learn the secret of eternal  जीवन , gilgamesh  undertakes a long and perilous journey .
He learns that `` The life that you are  seeking तुम होगा never ढूँढें  .
When the gods created man they  आवंटित to उसे मौत , लकिन जीवन वे retained  in their own keeping . ''
This quote was originally attributed to Siduri in the Old Babylonian version of the epic , and then attributed to  the अमर बाढ़ नायिका utnapishtim  in the Akkadian version of the epic .
Nevertheless , Gilgamesh 's fame lived on after his death , because of his great building projects , and his account  of कया utnapishtim बताई उसे happened दौरान the बाढ़  .
The story has been  अनूदित into अनेक अलग भाषाएं  , and Gilgamesh has since become adapted in works of popular fiction .
There are numerous debates over who created the first video game , with the  जवाब depending largely on कैसा वीडियो खेल हैं पारिभाषित  .
The evolution of  वीडियो खेल represents  a tangled web of several different industries , including scientific , computer , arcade , and consumer electronics .
The `` video '' in `` video game `` traditionally refers to  a रास्टर प्रदर्शक  device .
With the popular catch phrase use of the term `` video game '' , the  पद अभी implies सब प्रदर्शक प्रकार , स्वरुप , और प्लेटफ़ॉर्म  .
Historians have also sought to bypass the issue by instead using the  अधिक विशिष्ट `` डिजिटल खेल '' वर्णनात्मक  .
This term leaves out the earlier  analog-based कंप्यूटर  games .
This is a list of best-selling video game franchises that  have बेची or shipped at तनिक 5 लाख  copies .
Unless  वरना stated , संख्याएँ indicate विश्वव्यापी  units sold , ordered alphabetically whenever two or more list the same amount .
The exception  हैं the ones specifying शिपमेंट , जिससे  have lower precedence than others listing sales .
Franchise sales include expansion  पैक भी हालांकि  they are not considered full video games .
For best-selling individual video games , see List  of best-selling  video games .
The sales figures given below do not include arcade game sales  , जिससे can be मिला  at List of highest-grossing arcade video games .
– This color indicates a sub-series of a  larger वीडियो  game franchise .
This does not necessarily  लागू लिये श्रेणी कि  are not video game-based .
Dorothy Ann Willis Richards (  सितंबर 1 , 1933 – सितंबर 13 , 2006  ) was an American politician and the 45th Governor of Texas .
She first came to national attention as  the राज्य कोषाध्यक्ष of टेक्सास ,  when she delivered the keynote address at the 1988 Democratic National Convention .
Richards served as the 45th Governor of Texas from 1991 to 1995 and was  पराजित लिये re-election in 1994 by  George W. Bush .
Ann Richards was  the दूसरी  female governor of Texas .
Data Execution Prevention ( DEP ) is a security feature  शामिल  in modern operating systems .
It is known to be available in Linux , Mac OS X , iOS , Microsoft Windows and Android operating systems and is  intended to prevent an अनुप्रयोग or सेवा इससे निष्पादित कोड इससे a non-executable  memory region .
This helps prevent certain  कारनामे कि स्टोर कोड via a बफ़र  overflow , for example .
DEP runs in two modes : hardware-enforced DEP  लिये cpu  that can mark memory pages as nonexecutable , and software-enforced DEP with limited protection for CPUs that do not have hardware support .
Software-enforced DEP does not protect against execution of code in data pages  , लकिन बजाय counters seh मिटाकर , another  type of attack .
DEP was introduced on Linux in 2004 ( kernel 2.6.8 ) , on Windows in 2004  साथ खिड़कियाँ xp सेवा पैक 2 , जबकि ठहराना  introduced DEP when they moved to x86 in 2006 .
उदाहरण उदाहरण  of two common futanari variants
, is the Japanese word for  hermaphroditism , जिससे is भी  used in a broader sense for androgyny .
Beyond Japan the term is used to describe a commonly pornographic genre of computer games , comics and animations ,  जिससे शामिल वर्ण कि दिखाएँ  both primary sexual characteristics .
But in today 's  भाषा it refers लगभग exclusively  for characters who have an overall feminine appearance .
In that case  the पद is भी प्रायः abbreviated  as futa ( s ) , which is occasionally also used as term for the works itself .
Early  captchas  such as these , generated by the EZ-Gimpy program , were used on Yahoo !
A modern CAPTCHA  , बल्कि than attempting to बनाएँ  a distorted background and high levels of warping on the text , might focus on making segmentation difficult by adding an angled line .
Another way to make segmentation difficult is to crowd  प्रतीकों साथ , as in याहू ! 's  current CAPTCHA format .
Some CAPTCHAs try to utilize  the क्षमता of लोगों to  see three-dimensional objects .
On this image , symbols are drawn with  लाइनों of अलग मोटाई to  make an effect of extrusion .
A CAPTCHA ( ) is a type of challenge-response test  प्रयुक्त in कम्प्यूटिंग as an attempt to ensure  that the response is generated by a human being .
The process usually involves a computer asking a user to complete a simple test which the  कंप्यूटर is  able to grade .
These  परीक्षण हैं designed to be आसान  for a computer to generate but difficult for a computer to solve , but again easy for a human .
If a correct solution is received  , it can be presumed to  have been entered by a human .
A common type of CAPTCHA requires the user to type letters and/or digits from a distorted  चित्र कि appears on  the screen .
Such tests are commonly used to prevent unwanted internet bots from accessing websites , since a  सामान्य इंसान can easily पढ़ा a captcha , जबकि the bot  can not process the image letters and therefore , can not answer properly , or at all .
Although most CAPTCHAs are letter pictures randomly generated , many of them have become difficult even for a human to read , so picture CAPTCHAs were created in which a human is shown a simple test to show a picture of a certain animal ( given few animal  तस्वीरें ) , जिससे is सरल लिये a इंसान होने to प्रक्रम , और इसलिए आसान to चुनें , जबकि a bot can नहीं प्रक्रम और solve the सवाल क्युकी हालांकि it can  analyze the picture , it can not easily guess the animal .
The term ``  captcha '' थी coined in 2000  by Luis von Ahn , Manuel Blum , Nicholas J. Hopper , and John Langford ( all of Carnegie Mellon University ) .
It is  an एक्रोनिम आधारित on  the word `` capture '' and standing for `` Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart '' .
Carnegie Mellon University attempted to trademark the term on 15  अक्तूबर 2004 , लकिन the ट्रेडमार्क अनुप्रयोग  was abandoned on 21 April 2008 .
A CAPTCHA is  sometimes वर्णित as a रिवर्स turing  test , because it is administered by a machine and targeted at a human , in contrast to the standard Turing test that is typically administered by a human and targeted at a machine .
Jacques-Yves Cousteau ( ; commonly  ज्ञात in अंग्रेज़ी as ज़ाक cousteau ; 11 जून 1910 – 25 जून 1997 ) थी a फ्रेंच  naval officer , explorer , conservationist , filmmaker , innovator , scientist , photographer , author and researcher who studied the sea and all forms of life in water .
He co-developed the Aqua-Lung , pioneered marine conservation and  थी a सदस्य of  the Académie française .
KFC ( Kentucky Fried Chicken ) is a fast food restaurant chain headquartered in  louisville , केंटकी , संयुक्त राज्य , जिससे  specializes in fried chicken .
An `` American icon '' , it is the world 's  दूसरी largest रेस्तरां कड़ी overall  ( as measured by sales ) after McDonald 's , with over 18,000 outlets in 120 countries and territories .
The company is  a subsidiary  of Yum !
ब्रांड्स , a रेस्तरां  company which also owns Pizza Hut and Taco Bell .
KFC was founded by Harland Sanders , who began selling fried  मुर्गा इससे उसके roadside रेस्तरां  in Corbin , Kentucky during the Great Depression .
Sanders was one of the first people to see the potential of the restaurant franchising concept , with the first `` Kentucky Fried  मुर्गा '' मताधिकार खोलने in यूटा  in 1952 .
The  मताधिकार popularized  chicken in the fast food industry , thereby diversifying the market and challenging the dominance of the hamburger .
Marketing himself as `` Colonel Sanders '' , he became a legendary figure  of अमरीकी सांस्कृतिक इतिहास , और उसके चित्र is स्टिल prominently  used in KFC branding .
the कम्पनी 's रैपिड  expansion saw it grow too large for Sanders to manage , and in 1964 he sold the company to a group of investors led by John Y . Brown , Jr. and Jack Massey .
KFC was one of  the पहला तेज़ खाना जंजीरों  to expand internationally , opening outlets in England , Mexico and Puerto Rico by the mid-1960s .
Throughout  the 1970s और 1980s , केएफसी अनुभवी मिश्रित सौभाग्य domestically , as it गई  through a series of corporate owners who had little or no experience in the restaurant business .
In the early 1970s , KFC was sold to the  आत्माओं कड़ heublein , जो यहूद लिया over  by the R.J. Reynolds food and tobacco conglomerate , who sold the chain to PepsiCo .
The chain  जारी to विस्तार विदेशी however  , and in 1987 KFC became the first Western restaurant chain to open in China .
The chain has since expanded rapidly in China , and the country is now  the कम्पनी  's most profitable market .
PepsiCo spun off its restaurants division as Tricon Global Restaurants  , जिससे बाद बदला इसके  name to Yum !
ब्रांड्स  .
केएफसी primarily बिकता fried मुर्गा टुकड़े और विसंगतियाँ ऐसे as मुर्गा सैंडविच  and wraps , salads and side dishes such as French fries and coleslaw , desserts and soft drinks , often supplied by PepsiCo .
Its most famous product is pressure fried chicken pieces , seasoned with Sanders ' `` Original  रेसिपी '' of 11 herbs  and spices .
The exact nature of these  संघटक is अनजान  , and represents a notable trade secret .
Larger portions of fried chicken are served in a  distinctive गत्ता  `` bucket '' , which has become a signature of the chain since being introduced by franchisee Pete Harman .
KFC is famous for the slogan `` finger lickin '  शुभ '' , जिससे रै चूंकि महरूम replaced by `` nobody करता  chicken like KFC '' and `` So good '' .
Cnidaria ( with a silent c ) or Coelenterata is  a phylum containing  over 10,000 species of animals found exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments .
Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes , specialized cells that they use mainly  लिये capturing शिकार  .
Their bodies  consist of mesoglea , a non-living jelly-like  substance , sandwiched between two layers of epithelium that are mostly one cell thick .
They have two basic body forms : swimming medusae and sessile polyps , both of which are radially symmetrical  साथ mouths घिरी by tentacles  that bear cnidocytes .
Both forms have a single  orifice और देह गुहा कि हैं प्रयुक्त लिये  digestion and respiration .
Many cnidarian species produce colonies that are single organisms composed of  medusa-like or polyp-like  zooids , or both .
cnidarians  ' activities are coordinated by a decentralized nerve net and simple receptors .
Several free-swimming Cubozoa and Scyphozoa  possess balance-sensing statocysts  , and some have simple eyes .
Not all cnidarians  reproduce sexually  .
Many have complex lifecycles with asexual polyp stages and sexual medusae , but some omit  either the polyp or the medusa  stage .
Cnidarians were for a long time  grouped साथ ctenophores in the phylum  Coelenterata , but increasing awareness of their differences caused them to be placed in separate phyla .
Cnidarians are classified into four main groups : the almost wholly sessile Anthozoa ( sea anemones , corals , sea pens ) ; swimming Scyphozoa ( jellyfish ) ; Cubozoa ( box jellies ) ; and Hydrozoa , a diverse group that includes all the  freshwater cnidarians as खूब as अनेक समुद्री फ़ॉर्म , और रै दोनो स्थानबद्ध सदस्यों ऐसे as hydra  and colonial swimmers such as the Portuguese Man o ' War .
Staurozoa have recently been  recognised as a क्लास in उनके अपना सही बल्कि  than a sub-group of Scyphozoa , and there is debate about whether Myxozoa and Polypodiozoa are cnidarians or closer to bilaterians ( more complex animals ) .
Most cnidarians prey on organisms ranging in size from plankton to animals several times larger than themselves , but many obtain much of their nutrition  इससे endosymbiotic शैवाल , और a few हैं परजीवी  .
Many are preyed upon by other animals including starfish , sea  slugs , मछली और  turtles .
Coral reefs , whose polyps are  समृद्ध in endosymbiotic शैवाल , support कुछ  of the world 's most productive ecosystems , and protect vegetation in tidal zones and on shorelines from strong currents and tides .
While corals are almost entirely restricted to warm , shallow marine waters , other cnidarians live in the  depths  , in polar seas and in freshwater .
चट्टान cnidarians have महरूम मिला in रॉक्स formed परिचय , और अन्य जीवाश्मों  show that corals may have been present shortly before and diversified a few million years later .
Fossils of cnidarians that do not  निर्माण mineralized  structures are very rare .
Scientists currently think that cnidarians , ctenophores and bilaterians are more closely related to calcareous sponges than  ये हैं to अन्य sponges , और कि anthozoans हैं the विकासवादी  `` aunts '' or `` sisters '' of other cnidarians , and the most closely related to bilaterians .
Recent analyses have concluded that  cnidarians , हालांकि माना अधिक `` आदिम '' than  bilaterians , have a wider range of genes .
the एज़टेक पिरामिड  at St. Cecilia Acatitlan , Mexico State .
एज़टेक जेड मुखौटा  depicting the god Xipe Totec .
Large ceramic statue  of an एज़टेक  Eagle Warrior
Aztec cosmogram in the pre-Hispanic Codex  fejérváry-mayer - the  fire god Xiuhtecuhtli is in the center .
The Aztec people were certain ethnic groups of central Mexico   , particularly those groups who spoke the Nahuatl language and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th centuries .
The Nahuatl words aztecatl ( singular ) and aztecah ( plural ) mean `` people from Aztlan `` , a  पौराणिक प्लेस लिये the nahuatl-speaking संस्कृति of the  time , and later adopted as the word to define the Mexica people .
Often the term `` Aztec '' refers exclusively  to the mexica लोगों of tenochtitlan ( अभी the स्थान of  Mexico City ) , situated on an island in Lake Texcoco , who referred to themselves as Mexica Tenochca or Cōlhuah Mexica .
Sometimes the term also includes the inhabitants of Tenochtitlan 's two principal allied city-states , the Acolhuas of Texcoco and the Tepanecs of Tlacopan , who  साथ साथ the mexica formed the एज़टेक ट्रिपल गठबंधन जिससे नियंत्रित कया is प्रायः ज्ञात as `` the एज़टेक  Empire '' .
In other contexts , Aztec may refer to all the  विभिन्न नगर राज्य और उनके peoples , जो साझा  large parts of their ethnic history and cultural traits with the Mexica , Acolhua and Tepanecs , and who often also used the Nahuatl language as a lingua franca .
In this meaning it is possible to talk about an  एज़टेक सभ्यता सहित  all the particular cultural patterns common for most of the peoples inhabiting Central Mexico in the late postclassic period .
From the 13th  सदी , the घाटी of  Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization : here the capital of the Aztec Triple Alliance , the city of Tenochtitlan , was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco .
The Triple Alliance formed a  उपनदी साम्राज्य expanding इसके राजनैतिक आधिपत्य दूर परे  the Valley of Mexico , conquering other city states throughout Mesoamerica .
At its pinnacle , Aztec culture had  समृद्ध और जटिल पौराणिक और धार्मिक परंपराओं  , as well as reaching remarkable architectural and artistic accomplishments .
In 1521 Hernán Cortés , along with a large number of Nahuatl  बोलना  indigenous allies , conquered Tenochtitlan and defeated the Aztec Triple Alliance under the leadership of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II .
Subsequently the Spanish founded the new settlement of Mexico City on the site of the ruined Aztec capital , from where they proceeded with the process of  colonizing सेंट्रल अमेरिका .
Aztec culture and history is primarily known through archaeological evidence found in excavations such as that of the renowned Templo Mayor in Mexico City ; from indigenous bark paper codices ; from eyewitness accounts by Spanish conquistadors such as Hernán Cortés  और बर्नल díaz डेल कैस्टिलो ; और विशेषकर इससे 16th और 17th सदी descriptions of एज़टेक संस्कृति और इतिहास लिखा  by Spanish clergymen and literate Aztecs in the Spanish or Nahuatl language , such as the famous Florentine Codex compiled by the Franciscan monk Bernardino de Sahagún with the help of indigenous Aztec informants .
Anderson Hays Cooper ( born June 3 , 1967 ) is an American journalist  , लेखक , और टेलीविज़न व्यक्तित्व  .
He is the primary anchor of the CNN news show  एंडरसन कूपर 360°  .
The program is normally broadcast live from a New York City studio ; however , Cooper often  प्रसारण सजीव on स्थान लिये तोड़कर  news stories .
As of September 2011 , he also serves as host of his own eponymous syndicated daytime talk show , Anderson Live  , जिससे होगा be रद्द  at the end of the second season .
A plot of a normal distribution ( or bell-shaped curve ) where each band has a width of 1  मानक विचलन – देखिए भी : 68-95-99.7  rule
Cumulative probability of a  सामान्य वितरण साथ  expected value 0 and standard deviation 1 .
In statistics and probability theory ,  मानक विचलन ( represented by the प्रतीक सिग्मा , σ  ) shows how much variation or dispersion exists from the average ( mean ) , or expected value .
A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be very close to the mean ; high standard deviation indicates that the  आंकड़ा अंक हैं स्प्रेड आउट over a विशाल दायरा of  values .
The standard deviation of a random variable , statistical  जनसांख्यिकी , आंकड़ा नियत , or संभाव्यता वितरण is the वर्गाकार  root of its variance .
It  is algebraically  simpler though practically less robust than the average absolute deviation .
A useful property of standard deviation is that  , नापसंद variance  , it is expressed in the same units as the data .
Note , however , that for measurements  साथ प्रतिशत as  unit , the standard deviation will have percentage points as unit .
In addition  to expressing the variability  of a population , standard deviation is commonly used to measure confidence in statistical conclusions .
For example , the margin of error in polling data is determined by  calculating the अपेक्षित  standard deviation in the results if the same poll were to be conducted multiple times .
the reported हाशिया of गलती is typically  about twice the standard deviation ­– the radius of a 95 percent confidence interval .
In science , researchers commonly report the standard deviation of experimental data , and only effects  कि पतन दूर बाहर the दायरा of मानक विचलन हैं माना  statistically significant – normal random error or variation in the measurements is in this way distinguished from causal variation .
Standard deviation is also important in finance , where the standard deviation on the rate of  वापसी on an निवेश is a  measure of the volatility of the investment .
When only a sample of data from a population is available , the standard deviation of the population can be estimated by a modified  मात्रा पुकारा the  `` sample standard deviation '' .
When the sample is the entire population , its unmodified standard deviation is called  the `` जनसांख्यिकी  standard deviation '' .
Ulluco ( u : ju : kɔ : ) ( Ullucus tuberosus ) is a plant  grown primarily as a रूट  vegetable , secondarily as a leaf vegetable .
The  ulluco is एक of the सबसे widely grown  and economically important root crops in the Andean region of South America , second only to the potato .
It is known there with the common  नाम of पापा लिसा , लकिन भी by the क्षेत्रीय names melloco ( इक्वाडोर  ) , olluco ( Peru ) , chugua ( Colombia ) or ruba ( Venezuela ) , among others .
The leaf and the tuber are edible , similar to spinach  और the आलू  , respectively .
They are known to contain high levels of protein ,  कैल्सियम , और  carotene .
Papalisa were used  by the incas  prior to arrival of Europeans in South America .
Ulluco tubers are  marketed as `` धरती रत्नों  '' in New Zealand , by Halfords Exotic Produce .
ulluco tubers  in New Zealand
An April 24 , 1851 poster warning the ``  रंगीन लोगों of बोस्टन '' परिचय पुलिसकर्मियों  acting as slave catchers .
The Fugitive Slave Law or Fugitive Slave Act was passed by the  संयुक्त राज्य कॉंग्रेस on सितंबर 18 , 1850 , as  part of the Compromise of 1850 between Southern slave-holding interests and Northern Free-Soilers .
This was one of the most controversial acts of the  1850 सुलह  and heightened Northern fears of a `` slave power conspiracy '' .
It declared that all runaway slaves were , upon  कैप्चर , to  be returned to their masters .
Abolitionists nicknamed it the ``  bloodhound विधि '' लिये the कुत्तो कि यहूद  used to track down runaway slaves .
Frank Joseph Pallone , Jr. ( born  अक्तूबर 30 , 1951 ) is the u.S.  Representative for , serving since 1993 .
He is a member of the  लोकतांत्रिक पार्टी  .
He previously  represented  the 3rd district from 1988 to 1993 .
Trin-i-tee 5:7  is a इन्जील duo इससे  New Orleans , Louisiana in the United States .
The group was marketed as a gospel alternative to R & B girl groups such as  नियति 's चाइल्ड और  TLC .
Trin-i-tee 5:7 has  बेची over 2.5 लाख  albums .
In 1998 , the group released their first album  हकदार trin-i-tee 5:7 जिससे  debut at # 1 on the Top Gospel charts .
the एल्बम प्रदर्शित the गीतों  `` God 's Grace '' and the cover song `` Oh !
Mary Do  n't  You Weep '' .
The album later  became certified सुनहरा  .
In 1999 , Terri Brown left the group and was  बाद replaced by सिंगर एड्रियन  Anderson .
During that year , the group recorded and released their second album  , आध्यात्मिक प्रेम  .
The album became the  समूह 's दूसरी # 1  album on the Top Gospel charts .
The album contained  the singles `` put  Your Hands '' and `` My Body '' .
In 2002 ,  the समूह released उनके  third album The Kiss which debuted at # 2 on the Top Gospel charts .
In 2007 , the group left  gospocentric रिकॉर्ड और हस्ताक्षरित a रिकार्ड सौदे साथ स्पिरिट  Rising Music .
In late 2007 , Trin-i-tee  5:7 released उनके पांचवां एल्बम  T57 , which featured the top ten gospel single `` Listen '' .
T57 charted # 2 on the Top  इन्जील एल्बम , # 5 on the शीर्ष ईसाई  charts , and # 12 on the Top R & B charts .
The United States federal  अर्जित आय कर क्रेडिट or अर्जित आय क्रेडिट ( eitc or eic ) is a refundable  tax credit for low- and medium-income individuals and couples , primarily for those who have qualifying children .
When the credit exceeds  the राशि of कर owed , it परिणाम in  a tax refund to those who claim the credit .
This credit is provided to offset the burden of social  सुरक्षा कर  and also to promote an incentive to work .
In order for a person or couple to claim one or more persons as their qualifying child ( ren ) , the age , relationship , and shared residency  आवश्यकताएँ जरूर be मिले , as खूब as कुछ अन्य  requirements .
U.S. tax forms  1040ez , 1040a , or 1040 can be  used to claim EIC without qualifying children .
To  अर्जी the क्रेडिट साथ  qualifying children , 1040A or 1040 must be used , as well as attaching Schedule EIC .
EIC phases in slowly , has a medium-length plateau , and then  phases आउट अधिक धीरे than it  phased in .
Since the credit phases out at 21 % ( for two children and for three or more qualilfying children ) or 16 % ( for one qualifying child ) , it is always preferable to  have एक अधिक डालर of वास्तविक सैलरी or मजदूरी ( हालांकि  technically , since the EIC table moves by fifty dollar increments , it 's always preferable to have an extra fifty-dollar increment of salary or wages ) .
For  कर साल 2011 , the अधिकतम  EIC for a single person or couple filing without qualifying children was $ 464 .
The maximum EIC with one qualifying child was $ 3,094 , with  दो children थी $ 5,112 , और साथ तीन  or more qualifying children was $ 5,751 .
ये  amounts are indexed annually for inflation .
the अर्जित आय कर  credit has been part of political debates in the United States regarding whether raising the minimum wage or increasing EIC will better address a seeming shortage of good-paying jobs .
The following is a  सूची of मध्यांतर shows  held at the National Football League 's championship game , the Super Bowl .
While halftime shows are a tradition during football  खेल at सब स्तर of प्रतियोगिता  , the Super Bowl halftime show represents a fundamental link to pop culture , which helps broaden the television audience and nationwide interest .
In  सबसे सालो चूंकि the mid-1980s , the मध्यांतर दिखाएँ of the  Super Bowl has featured popular recording artists and other well-known celebrities .
It has measurably increased television viewers  दौरान और बाद the मध्यांतर  show .
The  प्रदर्शन is regarded  one of the most-watched events in American television annually with over 100 million viewers in the United States alone .
Musical genres over the years have represented a broad range of music  प्रकार , सहित पॉप , चट्टान , क्लासिक चट्टान  , country , hip hop , rap , blues , and soul .
In  कुछ सालो , छोटी skits  or drama scenes are acted out on a stage .
the प्रदर्शन समूह up साथ लोगों रै performed at  the most Super Bowl halftime shows , starring in four during the 1970s and 1980s .
According to Nielsen ratings , Super Bowl XLVI halftime show headlined by Madonna in 2012 remains the most-watched halftime  दिखाएँ in इतिहास , साथ 114 लाख दर्शक or  about 3 million more than the actual game .
Beyonce 's 2013 halftime show  प्रदर्शन थी the  second most viewed show in history .
It is listed on the Guinness World  रिकॉर्ड as the largest  TV audience for a Super Bowl half-time performance .
अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's दिन ( imd  ) is an annual international event celebrated on 19th November .
Inaugurated in 1999 in  त्रिनिदाद और टोबैगो  , the day and its events find support from a variety of individuals and groups in Australia , the Caribbean , North America , Asia , Europe and Africa .
Speaking on behalf of UNESCO , Director of Women and Culture  of सलाम ingeborg  Breines said of IMD , `` This is an excellent idea and would give some gender balance . ''
She added  कि युनेस्को थी looking आगे  to cooperating with the organizers .
The  उद्देश्य of celebrating an अंतरराष्ट्रीय मेन 's दिन शामिल focusing on मेन 's और लड़कों ' स्वास्थ्य , improving लिंग  relations , promoting gender equality , and highlighting positive male role models .
It is an occasion to highlight discrimination against men and boys and to celebrate  उनके उपलब्धियाँ और योगदान , in particular लिये उनके योगदान  to community , family , marriage , and child care .
The broader and  परम उद्देश्य  of the event is to promote basic humanitarian values .
International Men 's Day is celebrated in over 60 countries , including Trinidad and Tobago , Jamaica , Australia , India , China , United States , Romania , Singapore , Malta , United Kingdom , South Africa , Tanzania , Zimbabwe , Botswana , Seychelles , Burundi , Hungary , Ireland , Isle of Man , Ghana , Canada , Denmark , Norway , Austria , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Ukraine , France , Italy , Pakistan , Cuba ,  अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा , st. किट्स और नेविस , st. लूसिया , हरा और केमन आइलैंड्स , on 19 नवम्बर  , and global support for the celebration is broad .
घाटी  Village ParkValley
Village is a district in the San  फर्नांडो घाटी प्रदेश of  Los Angeles , California .
The median age  of इसके जनसांख्यिकी , at 36 , is `` बूढ़ा लिये the नगर  of Los Angeles . '' and its average household size of two people is low , compared to other parts of the city .
Developmental  मनोविज्ञान is the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई  of changes that occur in human beings over the course of their life span .
Originally concerned with infants  और children , the फ़ील्ड रै विस्तारित to शामिल किशोरावस्था  , adult development , aging , and the entire life span .
This field examines change across a broad range of topics including motor skills and other psycho-physiological processes ;  संज्ञानात्मक विकास involving क्षेत्रों ऐसे  as problem solving , moral understanding , and conceptual understanding ; language acquisition ; social , personality , and emotional development ; and self-concept and identity formation .
Developmental psychology includes issues such as the extent to which development occurs through the gradual  accumulation of ज्ञान बनाम  stage-like development , or the extent to which children are born with innate mental structures versus learning through experience .
Many researchers are interested in the interaction between personal characteristics , the individual  's बर्ताव , और पर्यावरणीय कारकों सहित  social context , and their impact on development ; others take a more narrowly-focused approach .
Developmental psychology informs several applied fields , including : educational psychology , child psychopathology , and forensic  developmental मनोविज्ञान  .
Developmental psychology complements several other basic research fields in psychology including social  मनोविज्ञान , संज्ञानात्मक मनोविज्ञान , ecological मनोविज्ञान , और तुलनात्मक  psychology .
Joseph  माइकल `` जॉय ''  Stivic is a fictional character who first appeared on the 1970s American sitcom All in the Family .
Joey  stivic थी the बेटे और तभी चाइल्ड of माइक stivic  ( played by Rob Reiner ) and Gloria Stivic ( played by Sally Struthers ) , and the grandson of Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) and Edith Bunker ( Jean Stapleton ) .
The character first appeared as a newborn baby in a two-part episode  of सब in the परिवार जिससे aired in दिसम्बर 1975 .
After many appearances on All in the Family until Reiner and Struthers left the series in 1978 ( by that  समय , जॉय था महरूम निभाई सबसे प्रायः by प्रत्यावर्ती जुड़वा जेसन और  Justin Draeger ) , the Joey Stivic character next appeared on the All in the Family spin-off series ( some call it a continuation of the original ) Archie Bunker 's Place in a guest appearance in the November 1979 episode `` Thanksgiving Reunion . ''
In this instance  , the अक्षर थी निभाई  by child actor Dick Billingsley and was appropriately pre-school age .
With Gloria now separated from  माइक , वो लौटे to आर्ची बंकर 's प्लेस साथ जॉय in the  February 1982 episode `` Gloria Comes Home . ''
In this episode ,  जॉय थी निभाई  by Christopher Johnston .
Joey Stivic was a regular character on the All in the Family  spin-off श्रेणी  Gloria in 1982 and 1983 .
On this series , in which the now-divorced Gloria Bunker character had moved to  upstate नई यॉर्क in अनुक्रम to कार्य as an सहायक  veterinarian , the part of Joey Stivic was played by ten-year-old actor Christian Jacobs .
After Gloria was canceled in 1983 , Joey Stivic disappeared from  प्रधान समय टेलीविज़न लिये 11 सालो , जबतक the अक्षर बना एक पिछला रूप on 704 hauser  , a short-lived 1994 series about a black family who had moved into the old Bunker home , years after Bunker had sold it .
In this appearance , the Joey Stivic character was played by Casey Siemaszko , an actor born in 1961 ( 14 years before Joey Stivic 's  fictional  birth ) .
In  1976 the आदर्श खिलौना कम्पनी released a 14-inch `` जॉय stivic गुड़िया '' ( पुकारा `` आर्ची  Bunker 's Grandson '' ) which was billed as the `` first anatomically correct male doll . ''
The doll  प्रेरित mild विवाद  at the time , and is a collectors ' item today .
The 2011 Rose Bowl was  the 97th संस्करण of the सालाना कटोरी खेल निभाई on जनवरी  1 , 2011 , as part of the 2010 college football season .
निभाई in pasadena  , California , the TCU Horned Frogs of the Mountain West Conference defeated the Wisconsin Badgers of the Big Ten Conference by a score of 21 – 19 .
The Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association  थी the आयोजक  of the game .
Vizio Inc. was the corporate  प्रायोजक और the खेल थी  officially named `` The Rose Bowl Game presented by Vizio '' .
This  खेल चिह्नित the  first time a team from a non-Automatic Qualifying Conference played in , and won , the Rose Bowl in its 97 years .
The contest was broadcast on cable television station ESPN with a radio broadcast on  ईएसपीएन रेडियो और xm उपग्रह  Radio and ESPN3 streaming video over the internet .
Coverage  began at 1:30 pm  ( PST ) with kickoff at 2:10 PM ( PST ) .
This marked the first  समय कि the खेल थी नहीं ब्रॉडकास्ट nationally ``  over-the-air '' ( terrestrial television ) since the games prior to the 1952 Rose Bowl , which was the first nationally televised college football game .
The Rose Bowl Game , themed Building Dreams , Friendships , & Memories , was a contractual sell-out , with 64,500  टिकटें आबंटित  to the participating teams and conferences .
Ticket prices for all  सीटे in the  Rose Bowl are listed at $ 145 .
The remaining tickets went to the Tournament of Roses members  , प्रायोजकों , नगर of pasadena निवासियों  , and the general public .
The Rose Bowl stadium  क्षमता is सूचीबद्ध at लगभग  91,000 .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4 , 1776 , which announced that the  तेरह अमरीकी  colonies , then at war with Great Britain , regarded themselves as independent states , and no longer a part of the British Empire .
Instead they  अभी formed a नई  nation—the United States of America .
John Adams was a leader in pushing for  स्वतंत्रता , जिससे थी unanimously  approved on July 2 .
A committee had already drafted the formal  घोषणा , to be तैयार  when congress voted on independence .
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original draft  of the दस्तावेज़ , जिससे कॉंग्रेस होता संपादन to उपज the  final version .
The Declaration was ultimately a formal explanation of why Congress had voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain , more than a year after the  outbreak of the अमरीकी  Revolutionary War .
The national birthday ,  the स्वतंत्रता दिन is  celebrated on July 4 , although Adams wanted July 2 .
After ratifying the text on July 4 , Congress issued the  घोषणा of स्वतंत्रता in अनेक  forms .
It was  initially प्रकाशित  as the printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and read to the public .
The most famous version of the Declaration , a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of Independence , is  प्रदर्शित at the नेशनल अभिलेख in वॉशिंगटन  , D.C .
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved on July 4 , the date  of इसके हस्ताक्षर थी अगस्त  2 .
The  असली जुलाई 4 संयुक्त राज्य घोषणा  of Independence manuscript was lost while all other copies have been derived from this original document .
The sources and  निर्वचन of  the Declaration have been the subject of much scholarly inquiry .
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial grievances against King  जार्ज iii , और by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक और विधिक अधिकारों  , including a right of revolution .
Having served its original purpose in announcing independence  , the टेक्स्ट of the घोषणा थी initially  ignored after the American Revolution .
Since then , it has come to be considered a major statement on human rights , particularly  इसके दूसरी  sentence:
We hold these truths to be  self-evident , कि सब मेन हैं निर्मित बराबर ,  that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness .
This has been called `` one of the best-known sentences in the English language  '' , containing  `` the most potent and consequential words in American history . ''
The passage came to represent a moral standard to  जिससे the संयुक्त  States should strive .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy , and argued that the  घोषणा is a बयान of सिद्धान्त through जिससे  the United States Constitution should be interpreted .
It has inspired work for the rights of  अधिकारहीन  people throughout the world .
Chitty Chitty Bang Bang is a 1968 British musical film loosely  आधारित on इयान फ्लेमिंग 's अनोखा  .
The film 's script is by Roald Dahl  और केन  Hughes and its songs by the Sherman Brothers .
It stars Dick Van Dyke as Caractacus Potts and  सैली ऐन howes  as Truly Scrumptious .
The film was directed by Ken Hughes and produced by Albert R.  ब्रोकोली ( co-producer of the जेम्स  Bond series of films , also based on Fleming 's novels ) .
John Stears  पर्यवेक्षित the खास  effects .
Irwin Kostal supervised and conducted the music , while the musical  संख्याएँ यहूद मंचन by मार्क breaux और dee dee  Wood .
A region is arid when it is characterized by a severe lack of  उपलब्धियाँ जल , to the extent of hindering or preventing the विकास और विकास  of plant and animal life .
environments विषय to arid climates  tend to lack vegetation and are called xeric or desertic .
Most `` arid '' climates  घेर the equator ; ये स्थान शामिल सबसे of अफ़्रीकी और  parts of South America and Central America .
Cancer ( ♋ ) is an astrological sign , which is associated with the  नक्षत्र  Cancer .
It spans the 90-120th degree of the zodiac , between 90 and  125.25 उपाधि of celestial देशांतर , जिससे  the Sun transits this area on average between June 22 to July 22 each year .
And under the  sidereal zodiac , it  is currently from July 21 to August 9 .
The United States presidential election of 1960  थी the 44th quadrennial  presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 8 , 1960 .
The Republican Party nominated incumbent  vice-president रिचर्ड निक्सन , जबकि the लोकतांत्रिक  Party nominated John F. Kennedy , Senator from Massachusetts .
The incumbent President , Republican Dwight D. Eisenhower , was not eligible for re-election  बाद सेवारत the अधिकतम दो शर्तें  allowed by the Twenty-second Amendment .
कैनेडी थी निर्वाचित साथ  a lead of 112,827 votes , or 0.17 % of the popular vote , giving him a victory of 303 to 219 in the Electoral College , the closest since 1916 .
This was the first election in which all fifty of  the वर्तमान संयुक्त राज्य  participated .
A number of factors explain why the  चुनाव थी so बंद  .
Kennedy gained since there was an economic recession which hurt the incumbent  रिपब्लिकन , और he था the लाभ of 17  million more registered Democrats than Republicans .
Furthermore , the new votes that Kennedy gained among Catholics   almost neutralized the new votes Nixon gained among Protestants .
Kennedy 's campaigning skills  decisively outmatched  Nixon 's .
In the end , Nixon 's emphasis on his experience carried little weight  , और he wasted उर्जा by campaigning in  all 50 states instead of concentrating on the swing states .
Kennedy used his large ,  well-funded अभियान संगठन to जीत the नामांकन ,  secure endorsements , and , with the aid of the last of the big-city bosses , to get out the vote in the big cities .
He relied on running mate  lyndon B. जॉनसन to थाम the दक्षिण  and used television effectively .
This election is notable as being the first time in U.S. history that two sitting U.S . Senators (  कैनेडी और जॉनसन ) यहूद निर्वाचित as अध्यक्ष और vice-president ,  a phenomenon that has been repeated once , by Barack Obama and Joe Biden in 2008 ( in both cases , the president was the younger , more junior senator ) .
शेरवुड is  a city in Washington County , Oregon , United States .
Located in  the southeast  corner of the county , it is a residential community in the Tualatin Valley southwest of Portland .
The population was  11,791  at the 2000 census .
According to the 2010 census , the population  थी 18,205 निवासियों  .
Indirectly named for the Sherwood Forest in England ,  it थी पहला incorporated  in 1893 as a town .
The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 is an Act of the  u.S. कॉंग्रेस  that was signed into law by President George W. Bush on October 26 , 2001 .
The title of the act is a ten letter acronym ( USA PATRIOT ) that stands for Uniting (  और ) strengthening अमेरिका ( by ) providing उचित टूल्स जरूरी ( to ) इंटरफेस  ( and ) Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 .
The act , as a response to the terrorist attacks of September 11th , significantly reduced restrictions in law enforcement agencies ' gathering of intelligence within the United States ; expanded the Secretary of the Treasury’s authority to regulate financial transactions , particularly those involving foreign individuals and entities ; and broadened the discretion of law enforcement and  आव्रजन अधिकारियों in निमाड़ और deporting आप्रवासियों suspected of terrorism-related अधिनियमों  .
The act also expanded the definition of terrorism to include  घरेलू आतंक , यूँ enlarging the क्रमांक of क्रियाएँ  to which the USA PATRIOT Act’s expanded law enforcement powers can be applied .
On May 26 , 2011 , President Barack Obama used an Autopen to sign the PATRIOT Sunsets Extension Act of 2011 , a four-year extension of three key provisions in the USA PATRIOT Act while he was in France : roving wiretaps , searches of business records ( the `` library records  प्रावधान `` ) , और conducting निगरानी of `` लोन भेड़ियों '' — individuals suspected  of terrorist-related activities not linked to terrorist groups .
Republican leaders questioned  if the उपयोग of the autopen मिले the  constitutional requirements for signing a bill into law .
A  हाउस in महारानी ऐनी  style at 223 Avenue A .
snohomish is a  city in Snohomish County , Washington , United States .
The  जनसांख्यिकी थी  9,098 at the 2010 census .
The mayor of Snohomish is  karen guzak , और the  City Manager is Larry Bauman .
Snohomish prides itself for its historical  शहर , और थी एकबार ज्ञात लिये इसके अनेक पुरातन  shops when it was known as the `` Antique Capital of the Northwest . ''
The historic business and residential center of the town constitutes the Snohomish Historic  ज़िला , जिससे is सूचीबद्ध on the नेशनल  Register of Historic Places .
Many houses bear plaques with the  साल the हाउस थी निर्मित और the  name of the family or individual who originally occupied it .
Once every year , the city gives tours of the historic houses ; one of them , the Blackman  हाउस  , is a year-round museum .
A  सामान्य विमानन एयरफील्ड , घनघोर  Airfield , is less than one mile southwest of Downtown Snohomish .
Dave Matthews Band  ( dmb ) is an अमरीकी  rock band that was formed in Charlottesville , Virginia , United States , in 1991 .
The founding members were  singer-songwriter और guitarist डेव matthews , bassist  Stefan Lessard , drummer /backing vocalist Carter Beauford and saxophonist LeRoi Moore .
Boyd Tinsley was added to the band as a violinist soon  बाद the बैंड थी formed  .
Moore died  एकाएक  in August 2008 due to complications from injuries sustained in an ATV accident .
GRAMMY Award -winner Jeff Coffin of Béla Fleck and the Flecktones has  चूंकि भर मूर 's स्पॉट as  the band 's saxophonist .
Rashawn Ross  और टिम रेनॉल्ड्स have  also become full-time touring members of the band .
The band 's  2009 एल्बम बिग whiskey और the groogrux किंग ( the पहला एल्बम  since Moore 's death ) debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , earning the band their fifth consecutive number-one debut— making them the second band behind Metallica to do so .
Their most recent album , Away from the World , was released in 2012 , and also debuted  at क्रमांक एक  on the Billboard chart .
As of 2010 , the Dave Matthews Band has sold  over 30 लाख रिकॉर्ड  worldwide .
The band is known for their annual  summer-long टुर of the  United States and Europe , featuring lengthy improvisational renditions of their songs , accompanied by an elaborate video and lighting show .
This portion of the tour has become a stamp of DMB and has grown with the  बैंड चूंकि fenton  Williams began working with them in the early 1990s .
बाद  twenty consecutive years of touring the band announced that it would take the summer of 2011 off .
Dave  matthews बैंड  has won one GRAMMY Award , and was awarded the NAACP Chairman 's Award .
According to Julian Bond , `` they sell out the largest arenas  on धरती , लकिन अक्सर दे उनके म्यूज़िक  away . ''
अनुभवातीत जंगली जई : a अध्याय इससे an  Unwritten Romance is a prose satire written by Louisa May Alcott , about her family 's involvement with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s .
The work was first published in a New  यॉर्क समाचारपत्र in 1873 , और  reprinted in 1874 , 1876 , and 1915 and after .
In her account , Alcott provides the real people involved with thin  pseudonymous disguises  .
Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is `` Abel Lamb , '' while his partner and community co-founder Charles Lane is `` Timon Lion ; '' Abigail May Alcott ,  louisa 's माँ और  Bronson 's wife , is `` Sister Hope . ''
Alcott depicts her father as dominated by his more forceful  संगी , और दोनो मेन  as feckless and impractical dreamers .
The  मेन of the जातियाँ खर्च  their time in pointless debates while Sister Hope works from dawn to dusk to maintain their existence .
A crisis arises at harvest  समय , जब the अनाज  crop is threatened by an approaching storm .
In Alcott 's words , `` About the time  the अनाज थी तैयार to हाउस , कुछ कॉल  of the Oversoul wafted all the men away . ''
Sister Hope organizes the only available help , three  छोटी लड़कियों और a लड़के ,  and manages to save the crop .
The  छोटी जातियाँ collapses as जल्द as the  weather turns cold , when it becomes clear that their provisions are too meager to last the coming winter .
Timon Lion and his son abscond to join the Shakers — though  timon is अप्रसन्न to सीख कि जीवन  among them is `` all work and no play . ''
Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise ; after days of despair he begins to eat again only when he realizes that his  परिवार needs उसे  .
Sister Hope finds a way for them to  subsist और persevere  .
Alcott 's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this piece is paralleled in her  अनोखा , प्रकाशित in the वही साल as `` अनुभवातीत  Wild Oats . ''
`` Transcendental Wild  जई '' रै महरूम reprinted in अनेक आधुनिक  editions .
Mount of the Holy Cross is the northernmost 14,000-foot mountain in the  sawatch दायरा , भाग of the रॉकी kyu  in Colorado .
It is located in the Holy Cross Wilderness near the ghost town of Holy Cross  नगर और in त्रिभुज काउंटी  .
It was named  लिये the distinctive  cross-shaped snowfield on the northeast face .
Under USDA Forest Service   administration , the mountain was proclaimed `` Holy Cross National Monument '' by Herbert Hoover on May 11 , 1929 .
The  स्मारक  was transferred to the National Park Service in 1933 .
In 1950 , it was returned to the Forest Service and lost its National Monument status—the number of visitors to the mountain and the nearby `` Pilgrim 's Hut  '' था waned , और the व्यय of  full-time staff could not be justified .
This mountain has been the subject of painters , photographers and even a poem  by हेनरी वाड्सवर्थ लांगफेलो  , ( The Cross of Snow ) .
The first publicly available photograph was published in  नेशनल भौगोलिक  magazine .
Thomas Moran depicted the mountain in an oil painting , which now is part of the collection of the Museum of  the अमरीकी वेस्ट  , part of the Autry National Center in Los Angeles , California .
it is स्टिल much  photographed but it is not as well known today as it was in the past .
Nearby features include Bowl of Tears Lake , directly under the east face of the peak ,  tuhare झीलों , in a cirque कि झूठ दक्षिण of a significant  subpeak , and several other lakes .
Notable locations within include the Dotsero  ज्वालामुखी  ( near Interstate 70 ) , Vail and Aspen .
US 24 runs near the  शिखर through  Gilman .
Photochrom print of Mount of the  पावन क्रॉस c. 1900  .
This image is a reversed view of the mountain compared to how it  दरअसल appears  .
The first recorded ascent of Holy Cross was in 1873 , by F. V. Hayden and  फ़ोटोग्राफ़र W. H. जैक्सन दौरान एक of hayden 's भौगोलिक  surveys .
However , the  शिखर may खूब have महरूम  ascended previously by miners or American Indians .
The first winter ascent of the peak was  बना in 1943 by russel keene और हावर्ड freedman  of the 10th Mountain Division , then stationed at Camp Hale .
Holy Cross can be climbed by at least four different routes , with  the easiest और सबसे आम रूट होने the उत्तर लकीरें  , which involves of vertical gain over and is rated YDS Class 2 for moderate scrambling .
The Cross Couloir route forms the  लंबवत portion of the प्रसिद्ध  cross feature , and provides an advanced snow climb or extreme ski descent .
Mount of  the पावन क्रॉस रै a इतिहास  of endangering the lives of many hikers .
Primarily , the hikers who require rescue are unfamiliar with the  risks of प्रवेश wilderness क्षेत्रों और do नहीं लाओ पर्याप्त उपकरण  and supplies to respond to emergency conditions .
Although the summit on Mount of the Holy Cross is frequently reached on a long day hike , unprepared hikers  हैं अक्सर stranded or खोया due to बदलना पर्यावरणीय  conditions and confusion regarding the surrounding landscape , especially on the descent of North Ridge .
Thorough  शोध और उचित  planning should prevent most tragedies .
Mount of the Holy  क्रॉस is accessible इससे  Tigiwon Road , south of Minturn , Colorado .
The  हाफ चंद्रमा pass ट्रेल  is the standard route to the summit of Mount of the Holy Cross via the North Ridge .
following the पतन क्रीक ट्रेल to an ascent of पायदान पहाड़  Trail provides the best view of the Holy Cross snow feature from Notch Mountain Ridge .
The GSM  लोगो is प्रयुक्त to पहचानो  compatible handsets and equipment
GSM ( Global System for Mobile  संचार , originally ' ) , is a मानक नियत विकसित by the  European Telecommunications Standards Institute ( ETSI ) to describe protocols for second generation ( 2G ) digital cellular networks used by mobile phones .
It  became the de facto  global standard for mobile communications with over 80 % market share .
The GSM standard was developed as a replacement for first generation ( 1G ) analog cellular networks ,  और originally वर्णित a डिजिटल  , circuit switched network optimized for full duplex voice telephony .
This was expanded over time to include data communications , first by circuit switched transport , then packet data  हस्तांतरण via gprs ( सामान्य पैकेट रेडियो सेवाएं  ) and EDGE ( Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution or EGPRS ) .
Further  सुधार यहूद बना जब the 3gpp विकसित  third generation ( 3G ) UMTS standards followed by fourth generation ( 4G ) LTE Advanced standards .
`` GSM '' is a trademark  स्वामित्व  by the GSM Association .
President Franklin D.  रूज़वेल्ट लक्षण the lend-lease विधेयक to दे  aid to Britain and China ( 1941 )
The Lend Lease act was an act where the United  राज्य था समर्थित  its allies .
Lend-Lease ( ) was the law that started a program under which the  संयुक्त राज्य of अमेरिका supplied the संयुक्त किंगडम  , the USSR , Republic of China , Free France , and other Allied nations with materiel between 1941 and 1945 .
It was signed into law on March 11 , 1941 , a year and a half after the outbreak of  संसार युद्ध ii in यूरोपीय in सितंबर  1939 .
This was nine months before the U.S. entered the  युद्ध in दिसम्बर  1941 .
Formally titled An Act to Further Promote the Defense of the  संयुक्त राज्य , the  Act effectively ended the United States ' pretense of neutrality .
A total of $ 50 .1 billion ( equivalent to $ today ) worth of supplies were shipped : $ 31.4 billion to  ब्रिटेन , $ 11.3 अरब to the सोवियत संघ , $ 3.2 अरब to  France , $ 1.6 billion to China , and smaller sums to other Allies .
Reverse Lend-Lease comprised services such as rent on air bases that went to the U.S. , and totaled $ 7.8  अरब ; of इस , $  6.8 billion came from the British and the Commonwealth .
the शर्तें of the अनुबंध provided  that the materiel was to be used until time for their return or destruction .
Supplies after the termination  तिथि यहूद बेची to ब्रिटेन  at a large discount for £1 .075 billion using long-term loans from the United States .
Canada operated a similar  कार्यक्रम कि भेजा $ 4.7 अरब  in supplies to the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union .
The United States did not charge for aid supplied  अंतर्गत इस विधान  .
This program was a decisive step away from non-interventionist policy , which had dominated United States  विदेशी संबंध चूंकि the समाप्त of संसार युद्ध i , towards  international involvement .
The Jerusalem artichoke ( Helianthus tuberosus ) ,  भी पुकारा sunroot , sunchoke , धरती ठहराना or topinambour , is a प्रजाति of सूरजमुखी देशी  to eastern North America , and found from eastern Canada and Maine west to North Dakota , and south to northern Florida and Texas .
It is also cultivated widely across the temperate zone for its  tuber , जिससे is प्रयुक्त as a रूट  vegetable .
Castillo San Felipe del Morro also known as Fort San Felipe del Morro or Morro Castle  , is a 16th-century citadel स्तिथ in सैन  Juan , Puerto Rico .
Stonehenge is a prehistoric monument in  विल्टशायर , इंग्लैण्ड , परिचय  west of Amesbury and north of Salisbury .
One of the most  प्रसिद्ध साइट in the संसार , stonehenge  is the remains of a ring of standing stones set within earthworks .
It is in the middle of the most dense complex  of पाषाणकालीन और  Bronze Age monuments in England , including several hundred burial mounds .
Archaeologists believe it was  निर्मित anywhere इससे  3000 BC to 2000 BC .
Radiocarbon dating in 2008 suggested that the first stones were raised  between 2400 और 2200 bc , whilst  another theory suggests that bluestones may have been raised at the site as early as 3000 BC .
The surrounding   circular earth bank and ditch , which constitute the earliest phase of the monument , have been dated to about 3100 BC .
The site and its  परिवेश यहूद added to the युनेस्को 's सूची of  World Heritage Sites in 1986 in a co-listing with Avebury Henge .
It is a national legally protected Scheduled  प्राचीन स्मारक  .
Stonehenge is owned by the  क्राउन और प्रबंधित by  English Heritage , while the surrounding land is owned by the National Trust .
पुरातत्व प्रमाण मिला by the stonehenge riverside प्रोजेक्ट  in 2008 indicates that Stonehenge could have been a burial ground from its earliest beginnings .
The dating of cremated remains found on the site indicate that deposits contain human bone from as  जल्दी as 3000  BC , when the ditch and bank were first dug .
Such deposits continued at  stonehenge लिये at तनिक  another 500 years .
The site is a place of  धार्मिक significance  and pilgrimage in Neo-Druidry .
the ncaa महिलाओं 's प्रभाग  I Championship is an annual college basketball tournament for women .
Held each April , the Women 's Championship  थी उदघाटन  in the 1981–82 season .
The NCAA tournament was preceded by the AIAW Women 's Basketball Tournament , which  थी आयोजित  annually from 1972 to 1982 .
Basketball was one of twelve women 's sports added to the NCAA championship program for the 1981-82 school year ,  as the ncaa सगाई in बैटल साथ the संघ लिये  Intercollegiate Athletics for Women for sole governance of women 's collegiate sports .
The AIAW continued to conduct its established championship program in the same twelve ( and other ) sports ; however , after a year of dual women 's championships , the  ncaa  prevailed , while the AIAW disbanded .
उपस्थिति और  interest in the Women 's Division I Championship have grown over the years , especially since 2003 , when the final championship game was moved to the Tuesday following the Monday men 's championship game .
The women 's championship game is now the  फाइनल overall खेल  of the college basketball season .
Before that , the Women 's Final Four was  प्रायः निभाई on the शुक्रवार  before the Men 's Final Four or the hours before the men played on the final Saturday of the tournament .
The final was usually played the Sunday afternoon  following the मेन 's  Final Four .
The tournament bracket is made up of champions from each  प्रभाग i सम्मेलन , जिससे  receive automatic bids .
The remaining slots are at-large  बोलियों , साथ टीमों चुनी  by an NCAA selection committee .
the चयन प्रक्रम और टूर्नामेंट  seedings are based on several factors , including team rankings , win-loss records and Ratings Percentage Index ( RPI ) data .
Unlike the men 's tournament ,  वहीँ हैं तभी 32  at-large bids ( as of the next tournament in 2014 ) , and no play-in game .
The women 's tournament , like the men 's , is staged in a single elimination format , and is part of  the मीडिया और पब्लिक frenzy ज्ञात colloquially  as March Madness or The Big Dance .
All 63 games have been broadcast on television  चूंकि 2003 on ईएसपीएन  and ESPN2 .
समान to the pre-2011 मेन 's टूर्नामेंट कवरेज on सीबीएस  , local teams are shown on each channel when available , with `` whip-around '' coverage designed to showcase the most competitive contests in the rest of the country .
The  rosetta  Stone in the British Museum
The Rosetta Stone  is an प्राचीन मिश्र granodiorite stele  inscribed with a decree issued at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V .
The decree appears in three scripts : the upper text is Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs , the middle  portion demotic स्क्रिप्ट , और the न्यूनतम प्राचीन  Greek .
Because it presents essentially the same text in all three scripts (  साथ कुछ नाबालिग मतभेद between  them ) , it provided the key to the modern understanding of Egyptian hieroglyphs .
Originally displayed within a temple , the stone was probably moved during the early Christian or medieval period and eventually used as building  सामग्री in the निर्माण of फोर्ट जुलिएन निकट the  town of Rashid ( Rosetta ) in the Nile Delta .
It was rediscovered there in 1799 by a soldier ,  pierre-françois bouchard , of the फ्रेंच expedition  to Egypt .
As the first Ancient Egyptian bilingual text recovered in modern times , the Rosetta Stone aroused widespread public interest with its potential to  decipher इस hitherto untranslated प्राचीन भाषा  .
Lithographic copies and plaster casts began  circulating among यूरोपीय  museums and scholars .
Meanwhile , British troops defeated the French in Egypt in 1801 , and the original stone came  into अंग्रेजों कब्ज़ा अंतर्गत the capitulation  of Alexandria .
Transported to  लंदन , it रै महरूम on  public display at the British Museum since 1802 .
It is the  most-visited ऑब्जेक्ट in the अंग्रेजों  Museum .
Ever since its rediscovery , the stone has been the focus of nationalist rivalries , including its transfer from French to British  कब्ज़ा दौरान the napoleonic युद्धों , a long-running विवाद over the सापेक्ष मान of यंग 's और champollion 's योगदान  to the decipherment , and since 2003 , demands for the stone 's return to Egypt .
Study  of the डिक्री थी already  under way as the first full translation of the Greek text appeared in 1803 .
It was 20 years , however , before the transliteration of the Egyptian scripts was announced by Jean-François Champollion in Paris in 1822 ; it took longer still before  विद्वानों यहूद समर्थ to पढ़ा प्राचीन मिश्र  inscriptions and literature confidently .
Major advances in the decoding were : recognition that the stone offered three versions of the same text ( 1799 ) ; that the demotic text used phonetic characters to spell foreign names ( 1802 ) ; that the hieroglyphic text did so as well , and had pervasive similarities  to the demotic ( थामस यंग , 1814 ) ; और कि , in जोड to होने प्रयुक्त लिये विदेशी names , ध्वन्यात्मक वर्ण  were also used to spell native Egyptian words ( Champollion , 1822–1824 ) .
Two other fragmentary copies of  the वही डिक्री यहूद खोजा बाद  , and several similar Egyptian bilingual or trilingual inscriptions are now known , including two slightly earlier Ptolemaic decrees ( the Decree of Canopus in 238 BC , and the Memphis decree of Ptolemy IV , ca . 218 BC ) .
The Rosetta Stone is therefore no longer unique , but it was the essential key to modern  समझना of प्राचीन मिश्र साहित्य  and civilization .
The term Rosetta Stone is  अभी प्रयुक्त in अन्य contexts as the  name for the essential clue to a new field of knowledge .
Poison dart frog ( also dart-poison frog , poison frog or formerly poison arrow frog ) is the common name of a group of frogs in the family Dendrobatidae which are native to   Central and South America .
These  प्रजाति हैं diurnal  and often have brightly colored bodies .
Although all wild dendrobatids are at least somewhat toxic , levels of toxicity vary considerably from one species to the next  और इससे एक जनसांख्यिकी to another  .
अनेक प्रजाति  are threatened .
These amphibians are often called `` dart frogs '' due to the Amerindians '  स्वदेशी उपयोग of उनके to ज़हर the नुस्ख़े of blowdarts .
However , of over 175 species , only four have been  प्रलेखित  as being used for this purpose ( curare plants are more commonly used ) , all of which come from the Phyllobates genus , which is characterized by the relatively large size and high levels of toxicity of its members .
Cajeta is a Mexican confection of thickened  सिरप प्रायः बना  of sweetened caramelised milk .
According to chef Rick  bayless , the नाम लिये cajeta आए इससे the स्पेनी phrase al punto  de cajeta , which means `` a liquid thickened to the point at which a spoon drawn through the liquid reveals the bottom of the pot in which it is being cooked '' .
Another hypothesis is  कि it takes इसके नाम इससे the छोटी  wooden boxes in which it was traditionally packed .
Mexican cajeta is considered a specialty of the city of Celaya in the state of Guanajuato , although it  is भी उत्पादित साथ the परंपरागत विधि in अनेक कस्बों of the राज्य of  Jalisco , such as Mazamitla , Sayula , and Atotonilco el Alto .
Cajeta is made by simmering goat 's milk , or occasionally a sweetened liquid , stirring frequently , until it becomes very viscous   due to evaporation of water , and caramelized .
While goat milk is the most usual  आधार , अन्य  liquids or juices may be used .
In Celaya , and eventually the rest of Mexico , the confection of half goat 's  मिल्क और हाफ गाय 's मिल्क became ज्ञात by  the name cajeta , but elsewhere , the milk candy became known as leche quemada , dulce de leche , etc .
It has cousins in the many  भारतीय milk-based मिठाई जैसे प्रभा और the  milk fudge burfi , and in the opera fudge of the U.S. Cajeta is eaten on its own as a sweet , as a spread or filling for breads and pastries , such as churros , and as a topping for ice cream .
Certain liquors  हैं added to खास व्यंजनों  called cajeta envinada .
In addition ,  cajeta envinada especial is समृद्ध  with raisins , almonds , pecans or nuts .
Often it is used as a topping for crêpes , as a sweet sauce boiled and softened down with milk to soak the crepes ,  resulting in a स्वादिष्ट मिठाई  .
In  मैक्सिको अनेक  brands make cajeta but the most common brand is Coronado .
It is also very common to place cajeta  between obleas to मेक a  traditional Mexican dessert .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) , is the elder son of Charles , Prince of Wales , and Diana , Princess of Wales  , और third-eldest पोता of महारानी एलिज़ाबेथ ii और प्रिंस फिलिप , ड्यूक of एडिनबर्ग  .
He is second in the line of succession , behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New Zealand , Jamaica , Barbados , The Bahamas , Grenada , Papua New Guinea , the Solomon Islands ,  तुवालू , संत लूसिया , संत विंसेंट और the grenadines , बेलीज़ , अण्टीगुआ और बारबूडा , और संत किट्स और नेविस  .
Prince William was educated at four  स्कूलों in the संयुक्त किंगडम और प्राप्त a उपाधि  from the University of St Andrews .
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile , Belize , Tanzania , and Kenya where he has lived and holidayed  अनेक  times .
Prince William has  भी लिया kiswahili  studies at universities in Kenya and Tanzania .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household  प्यादे —serving साथ  his brother Prince Harry —and , two years later , earned his wings by completing pilot training at Royal Air Force College Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred to the Royal Air Force , was promoted  to उड़ान लेफ्टिनेंट और underwent  helicopter flying training in order to become a full-time pilot with the Search and Rescue Force .
In 2010 , he completed his general and special-to-type helicopter training and went on  to raf घाटी on no . 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing  co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter .
Prince  विलियम शादीशुदा उसके longtime गर्लफ्रेंड  , Catherine Middleton , on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey .
घंटों prior to  his wedding , Prince William was created Duke of Cambridge , Earl of Strathearn , and Baron Carrickfergus .
Mali is a  बहुभाषी  country .
The languages spoken there reflect ancient settlement patterns , migrations  , और इसके  long history .
Ethnologue  रिश्तो  50 languages .
Of these , French is the official language and Bambara is the most  widely बोला  .
Altogether 13 of the indigenous languages of Mali have  the विधिक औकात of नेशनल  language .
Sign in French , at a monument  in बमाको  .
{ {  infobox  Holiday
चाइनीज  New Year
9  – 12 फ़रवरी  ( Vietnam )
रोजर्स भवन  , the headquarters of Rogers Communications
Rogers Communications Inc. is a diversified  पब्लिक कनाडाई संचार  and media company .
It is particularly in the field of wireless communications , cable television , telephone , and Internet  कनेक्टिविटी साथ significant अतिरिक्त  telecommunications and mass media assets .
The company is headquartered in the  रोजर्स भवन  in Toronto , Ontario .
The company claims the heritage of the  रोजर्स वैक्यूम ट्यूब कम्पनी , संस्थापित in 1925 by एडवर्ड  Rogers , which started the CFRB radio station in Toronto , which was later acquired by outside interests .
The present enterprise dates to 1960 , when Rogers '  बेटे , टेड रोजर्स , संस्थापित रोजर्स रेडियो  Broadcasting Ltd .
That company acquired CHFI that year , as  खूब as aldred-rogers प्रसारण , a साझेदारी  with Joel Aldred which helped launch CFTO in 1961 .
Rogers later bought out Aldred  और प्रारंभ the वर्तमान केबल  and wireless operations , known as Rogers Cablesystems Ltd .
The chief competitor to the company is Bell Canada , which has a similarly extensive portfolio of radio and television media assets , as well as wireless , television distribution , and telephone services ,  विशेषकर in पूर्वी और सेंट्रल कनाडा ; the दो कंपनियाँ हैं प्रायः देखी as having a द्वयाधिकार on संचार सेवाएं in उनके regions  .
However , the company also competes nationally with Telus for wireless services , and primarily  indirectly साथ शॉ संचार  for television service .
The company also competes with a number of other media companies in the  प्रसारण उद्योग  .
The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that use the standard Internet protocol suite (  tcp/ip ) to serve अरबों of उपयोक्ता विश्वव्यापी  .
It is a network of networks that consists of millions  of निजी , पब्लिक , अकादमिक , कारोबार , और सरकारी संजाल , of लोकल  to global scope , that are linked by a broad array of electronic , wireless and optical networking technologies .
The Internet carries an extensive range of information resources and services , such as the  inter-linked हाइपरटेक्स्ट दस्तावेज़ of the  World Wide Web ( WWW ) and the infrastructure to support email .
Most traditional communications media including  टेलीफोन , म्यूज़िक , फिल्मी , और टेलीविज़न हैं होने reshaped or redefined by the अंतरजाल ,  giving birth to new services such as voice over Internet Protocol ( VoIP ) and Internet Protocol television ( IPTV ) .
Newspaper , book and other print publishing are adapting to  वेब साईट प्रौद्योगिकी  , or are reshaped into blogging and web feeds .
The Internet has enabled and accelerated new forms of human interactions through instant messaging , Internet forums ,  और सोशल नेटवर्किंग  .
ऑनलाइन खरीदारी रै  boomed both for major retail outlets and small artisans and traders .
Business-to-business and financial services on the Internet affect supply chains  आरपार संपूर्ण उद्योग  .
The origins of the Internet reach back to research commissioned by the United States government in the 1960s to build robust ,  fault-tolerant संचार via  computer networks .
The funding of a new U.S. backbone by the National  विज्ञान न्यास in the 1980s , as खूब as निजी funding लिये  other commercial backbones , led to worldwide participation in the development of new networking technologies , and the merger of many networks .
The commercialization of what was by the 1990s an international network resulted in its popularization and  incorporation into वस्तुतः प्रत्येक पहलू  of modern human life .
, more than 2.4 billion people—over a third of the  संसार 's इंसान जनसांख्यिकी —have प्रयुक्त the सेवाएं  of the Internet ; approximately 100 times more people than were using it in 1995 , when it was mostly used by tech-savvy middle and upper class people in the United States and several other countries .
The  अंतरजाल रै no centralized शासन  in either technological implementation or policies for access and usage ; each constituent network sets its own policies .
Only the overreaching definitions of the two principal name spaces in the Internet , the Internet Protocol address space and the Domain Name System ,  हैं निर्देशित by a maintainer संगठन , the अंतरजाल निगम लिये आबंटित names और  Numbers ( ICANN ) .
The technical underpinning and standardization of the core protocols ( IPv4 and IPv6 ) is an activity of the Internet Engineering Task Force ( IETF ) , a non-profit organization of loosely affiliated international participants that  anyone may  associate with by contributing technical expertise .
The 2006 Winter Olympics , officially known as the XX Olympic Winter Games , was a winter multi-sport event which was celebrated in Turin , Italy from  फ़रवरी 10 , 2006 , through फ़रवरी 26 , 2006  .
This marked the second time Italy hosted the  ओलम्पिक शीत खेल , the पहला  being the VII Olympic Winter Games in Cortina d'Ampezzo in 1956 .
Italy also hosted the Games of the XVII  ओलंपियाड in रोम in  1960 .
Turin was  चयनित as the मेजबान नगर  for the 2006 games in 1999 .
The official logo displayed the name `` Torino '' , the Italian name of the city ; the city is known as ``  टोरीनो '' in दोनो अंग्रेज़ी और the लोकल परंपरागत  language , Piedmontese .
The Olympic mascots of Torino 2006 were Neve ( `` snow '' in Italian ) , a  मादा स्नोबॉल , और gliz  , a male ice cube .
The official motto of the XX Olympic Winter Games  थी `` जुनून  lives here '' .
`` Help ! '' is a song by the Beatles that served as the title  सोंग लिये दोनो the 1965 फिल्मी और इसके  soundtrack album .
It was also released as a single , and was number one for three weeks in  दोनो the संयुक्त राज्य  and the United Kingdom .
``  सहायता ! '' थी लिखा  primarily by John Lennon , but credited to Lennon–McCartney .
During an interview  साथ प्लेबॉय in 1984  , Paul McCartney stated that the title was `` out of desperation '' .
पोस्टर लिये the  2005 exhibition
Siegfried Bing ( 26 February 1838 – 6 September 1905 ) , who usually gave his name as S. Bing , and was thus often referenced erroneously as `` Samuel Bing '' ( Samuel Otto Bing , 1850–1905 , was his brother )  थी a जर्मनी आर्ट डीलर जो जिया in पेरिस as  an adult , and who helped introduce Japanese art and artworks to the West and was a factor in the development of the Art Nouveau style during the late nineteenth century .
Comparison of male and female life expectancy at birth for countries and territories as  पारिभाषित in the 2011 सीआईए factbook  , with selected bubbles labelled .
The dotted line corresponds to  बराबर मादा  and male life expectancy .
The  apparent 3d  volumes of the bubbles are linearly proportional to their population .
This is a list of countries by life expectancy at  जनम  .
Kennewick is a  नगर in benton काउंटी in the southeastern भाग of the  U.S. state of Washington , near the Hanford nuclear site .
It is the most populous of the three cities collectively  referred to as the tri-cities ( the अन्य होने pasco और richland  ) .
Kennewick is located along the southwest bank of the Columbia River , opposite Pasco and just south of the confluence of the  कोलंबिया और  Yakima rivers .
The  जनसांख्यिकी  was 73,917 at the 2010 census .
April 1 , 2012 estimates from the Washington State  दफ्तर of वित्तीय प्रबन्धन put the  city 's population at 75,160 .
The  निकटतम वाणिज्यिक विमानक्षेत्र  is the Tri-Cities Airport in Pasco , a regional commercial and private airport .
Forbes magazine named Kennewick the # 2 area in the United States  लिये जॉब विकास , जबकि आसपास  Yakima was named # 1 .
The article cites the number of scientists employed by the Pacific Northwest  नेशनल प्रयोगशाला और क्षेत्रफल  farmland for this outlook .
The  prothrombin समय ( pt )  and its derived measures of prothrombin ratio ( PR ) and international normalized ratio ( INR ) are measures of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation .
This test is  भी पुकारा  `` ProTime INR '' and `` PT/INR '' .
They are used to determine the clotting  tendency of रक्त , in the माप of warfarin  dosage , liver damage , and vitamin K status .
PT measures factors I (  फाइब्रिनोजेन  ) , II ( prothrombin ) , V , VII , and X .
It is used in conjunction with the activated partial thromboplastin time ( aPTT ) which  उपायों the मूलभूत  pathway .
`` I 'm in the Mood for Love  '' is  a popular song .
The music was written by Jimmy McHugh ,  the गीत by डोरोथी  Fields .
The song was  प्रकाशित in 1935  .
it थी introduced  by Frances Langford in the movie Every Night at Eight released that year .
The song was featured in the 1936 Our Gang ( Little Rascals ) short , The Pinch Singer , sung by Carl ``  अल्फाल्फा '' switzer  , and in the 1936 film Palm Springs .
It  is प्रायः ज्ञात  to be Switzer 's signature song .
James Moody 's saxophone solo on a 1952 recording of this song  प्रेरित the सोंग `` मूडी 's मनोदशा  for Love `` .
Hip hop  कलाकार प्रिंस पॉल sampled  the song as the basis for the track `` Mood for Love '' on his album A Prince Among Thieves ( 1999 ) , with Don Newkirk singing its original lyrics .
The song 's title inspired the  अंग्रेज़ी शीर्षक  of Wong Kar Wai 's movie In the Mood for Love .
Cross-cultural psychology is  the वैज्ञानिक पढ़ाई  of human behavior and mental processes , including both their variability and invariance , under diverse cultural conditions .
Through expanding research  methodologies to recognize सांस्कृतिक  variance in behavior , language , and meaning it seeks to extend and develop psychology .
Since psychology as an academic discipline was developed  largely in उत्तर अमेरिका , कुछ psychologists became चिंतित कि constructs स्वीकृत as सार्वभौमिक यहूद नहीं as निश्चर as previously assumed ,  especially since many attempts to replicate notable experiments in other cultures had varying success .
Since there are questions as to whether theories dealing with central themes , such as affect , cognition , conceptions of the self , and  मुद्दे ऐसे as psychopathology , चिंता , और अवसाद , may कमी बाह्य  validity when `` exported '' to other cultural contexts , cross-cultural psychology re-examines them using methodologies designed to factor in cultural differences so as to account for cultural variance .
Although some critics have pointed to methodological flaws in cross-cultural psychological research and claim that serious  त्रुटियां in the सैद्धांतिक और methodological bases प्रयुक्त impede बल्कि than सहायता the  scientific search for universal principles in psychology , cross-cultural psychologists are turning more to the study of how differences ( variance ) occur , rather than searching for universals in the style of physics or chemistry .
In 1972 the International Association of  cross-cultural मनोविज्ञान  ( IACCP ) was established .
This branch of psychology has continued to expand as there has been an increasing popularity of  incorporating संस्कृति और विविधता  into studies .
Cross-cultural  मनोविज्ञान is differentiated इससे सांस्कृतिक  psychology .
The latter is the branch of psychology that  holds कि इंसान बर्ताव is significantly  influenced by cultural differences , meaning that psychological phenomena can only be compared with each other across cultures to a very limited extent .
In contrast , cross-cultural psychology includes a  ढूंढें लिये संभावित  universals in behavior and mental processes .
Walter J. Lonner , writing for Eye on Psi Chi , has stated that `` cross-cultural psychology can be thought of as a  प्रकार शोध methodology , बल्कि  than an entirely separate field within psychology ( 2000 ) . ''
`` Judas '' is a song by American recording artist Lady Gaga ,  इससे उसके दूसरी स्टुडियो एल्बम born इस रास्ता  ( 2011 ) .
It was  released by interscope  Records on April 15 , 2011 , four days ahead of its scheduled release .
Written and produced by Lady Gaga and RedOne , `` Judas '' is a dance  और इलेक्ट्रो हाउस  song about a woman in love with a man who betrayed her .
It embodies the  incidents कि have haunted गागा in the पास्ट , और इसके  core meaning refers to the negative parts of her life that she ca n't escape .
Gaga has further explained that the song was also about honoring one  's भीतरी अंधेरा in अनुक्रम to लाओ oneself  into the light .
The artwork for the single was  designed by गागा in  Microsoft Word .
In spite of a polarizing impact on several religious groups , the song was generally well received by critics , who likened the song to `` Bad  रोमांस `` साथ कुछ  noting it should have been the album 's lead single .
The song has  a समान ध्वनि to गागा 's पिछला  RedOne-produced tracks , including `` Poker Face `` , `` LoveGame `` , `` Bad Romance '' , and `` Alejandro `` .
It contains three distinct hooks and a  हाउस -influenced ब्रेक  down .
Gaga explained that the lines  बोला दौरान the विश्लेषण  talk about her as beyond redemption , regarding the traditional views of what a woman should be .
`` Judas '' initially had a strong sales opening , but was less successful  commercially in तुलना to  Gaga 's previous singles .
The song reached  the शीर्ष टेन of the चार्ट  in most major music markets , and also reached the top of the charts in South Korea .
A music video for the  सोंग थी फिल्माया in अप्रैल 2011 , co-directed  by Gaga and Laurieann Gibson and co-starring Norman Reedus .
It has a Biblical storyline where Reedus  निभाई यहूदा इस्कैरियट और गागा निभाई  Mary Magdalene .
The video  portrays उन्हें as आधुनिक  day missionaries going to Jerusalem .
It  शामिल the biblical  story of Judas betraying Jesus , and ended with Gaga as Magdalene getting stoned to death .
Before its release , the Catholic League condemned Gaga for the alleged use of religious  imagery और उसके भूमिका in the वीडियो  .
however  , critics generally praised the video , not finding any offensive content .
The video was nominated for  दो पुरस्कार at the 2011 एमटीवी  Video Music Awards .
Gaga has performed `` Judas '' on a number of television shows , including The Graham Norton Show , Saturday Night Live , Good Morning Americas `` Summer Concert Series '' , the French X Factor as  खूब as on the एलेन degeneres  Show .
H.264/MPEG-4 Part 10 or AVC ( Advanced Video Coding ) is a standard for video  संपीडन , और is फिलहाल एक of the सबसे commonly प्रयुक्त स्वरुप लिये the रिकॉर्डिंग ,  compression , and distribution of high definition video .
The final  drafting कार्य  on the first version of the standard was completed in May 2003 .
H.264/MPEG-4 AVC is a block-oriented motion-compensation -based  कोडेक मानक विकसित  by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts Group ( VCEG ) together with the ISO/IEC JTC1 Moving Picture Experts Group ( MPEG ) .
The  प्रोजेक्ट साझेदारी  effort is known as the Joint Video Team ( JVT ) .
The ITU-T H.264 standard and the ISO/IEC MPEG-4 AVC standard ( formally , ISO/IEC 14496-10 – MPEG-4 Part 10 , Advanced Video Coding ) are jointly  कायम so कि वे have एकसमान  technical content .
H.264 is perhaps best known as being one of the  कोडेक मानकों  for Blu-ray Discs ; all Blu-ray Disc players must be able to decode H.264 .
It is also widely used by streaming internet sources , such as videos from Vimeo , YouTube , and the iTunes Store , web software such  as the adobe फ्लैश खिलाड़ी और microsoft silverlight , और भी विभिन्न  HDTV broadcasts over terrestrial ( ATSC , ISDB-T , DVB-T or DVB-T2 ) , cable ( DVB-C ) and satellite ( DVB-S and DVB-S2 ) .
Non-binding arbitration is a type of  मध्यस्थता in जिससे the arbitrator makes a determination of the  rights of the parties to the dispute , but this determination is not binding upon them , and no enforceable arbitration award is issued .
The `` award ''  is in प्रभाव an  advisory opinion of the arbitrator 's view of the respective merits of the parties cases .
Non-binding arbitration is used in  कनेक्शन साथ कोशिशें  to reach a negotiated settlement .
The role of an arbitrator in  non-binding मध्यस्थता is , on  the surface , similar to that of a mediator in a mediation .
However , the principal distinction is that whereas a mediator will try to help the parties find a middle ground to compromise at , the arbitrator remains totally removed from the settlement process and will only give a determination of  देयता और , if उचित , an indication of the क्वांटम of क्षतिपूर्ति  payable .
Subsequent to a non-binding arbitration , the parties remain free to pursue their claims either through the courts , or by way of a binding arbitration ,  हालांकि in अभ्यास a उपनिवेश  is the most common outcome .
The award and reasoning in a non-binding arbitration is almost invariably inadmissible in any subsequent action in the courts or in  another  arbitration tribunal .
Non-binding arbitration is utilised mostly in  the संयुक्त  States and Canada .
It is largely unknown in Europe , although in the United Kingdom there is a practice of parties who are seeking a settlement to jointly instruct a Queen 's Counsel for an opinion on the  merits और संभावित क्वांटम of a अर्जी , और  then to negotiate on the basis of the views expressed in that opinion .
Augustine Volcano is a Lava Dome Complex on Augustine Island in  southwestern कुक इनलेट in the kenai  Peninsula Borough of southcentral coastal Alaska , southwest of Anchorage .
The Alaska Volcano Observatory currently rates Mount Augustine as Level of Concern Color Code Green for  विमानन और the ज्वालामुखी चेतावनी स्तर is  at Normal .
Augustine Island has a land area of ,  जबकि वेस्ट द्वीप  , just off Augustine 's western shores , has .
The island  is बना up मुख्यतः  of past eruption deposits .
Scientists have been able to discern that past dome collapse has  resulted in विशाल avalanches  .
A  मैप  of Belize .
The country of Belize has roughly 386  km of तटरेखा , और रै  many coral reefs , cays , and islands in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of these form the Belize Barrier Reef , the longest in the western  गोलार्ध stemming लगभग  .
The reef and its islands have  महरूम a युनेस्को  World Heritage Site since 1996 .
The following is a list of oceanic islands of  बेलीज़ , arranged according to प्रदेश लकिन  all of which are in the Caribbean Sea .
Most of the islands variate in spelling between `` cay '' and `` caye '' , and also  उपयोग the स्पेनी `` cayo ''  .
River islands have  नहीं महरूम  listed .
Drive Letter Access ( DLA ) is a discontinued commercial packet writing application for the Microsoft Windows operating system that allows optical disc data storage  डिवाइस to be प्रयुक्त in a manner समान  to floppy disks .
DLA is a packet writing  प्रौद्योगिकी लिये cd और dvd मीडिया  that uses the UDF file system .
DLA is not compatible with Windows Vista and newer , although a patch  exists to फिक्स इस समस्या  under Windows Vista .
roxio बर्न थी introduced  on April 30 , 2009 .
As a replacement for DLA , it remedies compatibility issues  अंतरजाल  Explorer 8 .
Alpha Rex Emmanuel Humbard ( August 13 , 1919 –  सितंबर 21 , 2007 ) थी a well-known अमरीकी टेलीविज़न इंजीलवादी  whose Cathedral of Tomorrow show was shown on over 600 stations at the peak of its popularity .
Limitless is a 2011  अमरीकी थ्रिलर फिल्मी  directed by Neil Burger and starring Bradley Cooper , Abbie Cornish , and Robert De Niro .
It is based on the  2001 अनोखा the अंधेरा फ़ील्ड  by Alan Glynn with the screenplay by Leslie Dixon .
Alaska ( ) is a state in the United States , situated in the northwest extremity  of the उत्तर अमरीकी महाद्वीप , साथ the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  boundary with Canada to the east , the Arctic Ocean to the north , and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south , with Russia further west across the Bering Strait .
Alaska is  the largest राज्य in the संयुक्त राज्य by क्षेत्रफल , the  4th least populous and the least densely populated of the 50 United States .
Approximately half of Alaska 's 731,449 residents live  भीतर  the Anchorage metropolitan area .
Alaska 's economy is dominated by the oil , natural gas , and fishing industries ; it has  ये संसाधन in प्रचुरता  .
Alaska was purchased from Russia on  कूच 30 , 1867 , लिये $ 7.2 लाख ( $  adjusted for inflation ) at approximately two cents per acre ( $ 4.74/km2 ) .
The land went through several administrative changes before becoming an organized ( or incorporated ) territory on May 11 , 1912 ,  और the 49th राज्य of the u.S. on जनवरी  3 , 1959 .
The name `` Alaska '' ( Аляска ) was already introduced in  the रूसी औपनिवेशिक काल , जब it थी प्रयुक्त तभी लिये the प्रायद्वीप  and is derived from the Aleut alaxsxaq , meaning `` the mainland '' or , more literally , `` the object towards which the action of the sea is directed '' .
It is also known as Alyeska  , the `` ग्रेट  land '' , an Aleut word derived from the same root .
Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University ( NMMU ) is a South African tertiary education institution with its  प्रमुख प्रशासन in the तटीय नगर  of Port Elizabeth .
A merging of three institutions founded NMMU in January 2005  but  its history dates back to 1882 with the foundation of Port Elizabeth Art School .
The  विश्वविद्यालयों draws अंतरराष्ट्रीय  students from all over the world .
There are over 3000 international students and include students from the United States , France , China , Germany ,  बेल्जियम , डेनमार्क , फिनलैंड , नीदरलैंड्स  , Norway , Sweden , United Kingdom and many other countries .
NMMU is a comprehensive university offering  पेशेवर और वोकेशनल प्रशिक्षण  .
The University has six campuses - five in  बंदरगाहों एलिज़ाबेथ और  one in George .
The  प्रमुख कैम्पस  is the South Campus .
Students at NMMU can study towards diplomas and  डिग्री up to और सहित डॉक्टरेट  level qualifications .
A number of courses include workplace  अनुभव as भाग of the  curriculum .
CoverGirl is an American cosmetics brand founded  in मेरीलैंड , by the noxzema रासायनिक कम्पनी ( बाद पुकारा  Noxell ) and acquired by Procter & Gamble in 1989 .
The Noxell Company advertised this cosmetics line by allowing ``  कवर लड़कियों  '' , fashion models who appear on the front cover of women 's magazines , to wear its products .
CoverGirl makes up for lack of direct  व्यक्तिगत ग्राहक सेवा by providing  a wide variety of cosmetics available at reasonable prices .
On the Origin of Species , published on 24  नवम्बर 1859 , is a कार्य of वैज्ञानिक साहित्य  by Charles Darwin which is considered to be the foundation of evolutionary biology .
Its full  शीर्षक थी on the उत्पत्ति of प्रजाति  by Means of Natural Selection , or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life .
For the sixth edition of 1872 , the short  शीर्षक थी बदला to  The Origin of Species .
Darwin 's book introduced the scientific theory that populations evolve over  the कोर्स  of generations through a process of natural selection .
It presented a body of evidence that the diversity of  जीवन arose by आम descent through  a branching pattern of evolution .
Darwin included evidence that he had gathered on the Beagle expedition in the 1830s and his subsequent findings from research ,  पत्राचार , और  experimentation .
विभिन्न विकासवादी विचार  had already been proposed to explain new findings in biology .
There was growing support for such ideas among dissident  anatomists और the सामान्य  public , but during the first half of the 19th century the English scientific establishment was closely tied to the Church of England , while science was part of natural theology .
Ideas  परिचय the transmutation of प्रजाति यहूद विवादास्पद as वे विरोधी  with the beliefs that species were unchanging parts of a designed hierarchy and that humans were unique , unrelated to other animals .
The political and theological  implications यहूद पडती  debated , but transmutation was not accepted by the scientific mainstream .
The book was written for non-specialist readers and  आकर्षित फैली  interest upon its publication .
As Darwin was an eminent scientist , his findings were taken seriously and the  प्रमाण he प्रस्तुत  generated scientific , philosophical , and religious discussion .
The debate over the book contributed to the campaign by T.H . Huxley and his fellow  सदस्यों of the x क्लबों to secularise विज्ञान  by promoting scientific naturalism .
Within two decades there  थी फैली वैज्ञानिक अनुबंध कि  evolution , with a branching pattern of common descent , had occurred , but scientists were slow to give natural selection the significance that Darwin thought appropriate .
During the `` eclipse of Darwinism `` from the 1880s to the 1930s , various other  mechanisms of एवोल्यूशन यहूद  given more credit .
With the development of the modern evolutionary synthesis in the 1930s and 1940s , Darwin 's concept of  विकासवादी अनुकूलन through प्राकृतिक चयन  became central to modern evolutionary theory , now the unifying concept of the life sciences .
Charles Dillon `` Casey '' Stengel ( ; July 30  , 1890 – सितंबर 29 , 1975 ) , nicknamed ``  The Old Perfessor '' , was an American Major League Baseball outfielder and manager .
He was  निर्वाचित to the  Baseball Hall of Fame in .
Stengel was born in Kansas City , Missouri , and originally  nicknamed `` डच '' , a आम उपनाम  at that time for Americans of German ancestry .
After  उसके प्रमुख लीग करियर began , he acquired the उपनाम  `` Casey '' , which originally came from the initials of his hometown ( `` K. C. '' ) , which evolved into `` Casey '' , influenced by the wide popularity of the poem Casey at the Bat .
In the 1950s , sportswriters dubbed him with yet another nickname , `` The Old Professor '' ( or `` Perfessor '' ) , for his sharp wit and his ability to talk at length on  anything बेसबॉल -सुनानाd  .
Although his baseball career spanned a number of teams and cities  , he is primarily संबद्ध साथ क्लब  in New York City .
Between playing and managing , he  is the तभी  man to have worn four of New York 's major league clubs ' uniforms .
He was the first of four men ( through the season ) to  मैनेज दोनो the नई यॉर्क  Yankees and New York Mets ; Yogi Berra , Dallas Green , and Joe Torre are the others .
जैसे टोरेस , he भी  managed the Braves and the Dodgers .
He ended his baseball career as the beloved manager for the then expansion New York Mets , which won over the hearts of New  यॉर्क partly due to the अद्वितीय अक्षर  of their veteran leader .
June ( ) is the  छठे माह of the साल in the जूलियन  and Gregorian calendars and one of the four months with a length of 30 days .
Ovid provides two etymologies for June 's name  in उसके कविता  concerning the months entitled the Fasti .
The first is that the month is named after the Roman goddess Juno , wife of Jupiter and equivalent to the Greek goddess Hera ; the second is that the name comes from the Latin word  iuniores , अर्थ `` younger ones , '' as opposed to maiores ( `` बड़ो '' ) लिये  which the preceding month May may be named ( Fasti VI.1–88 ) .
See : Months in various calendars also called the season of the June is the month with  the longest daylight घंटों of the साल in the उत्तरी गोलार्ध  and the shortest daylight hours of the year in the Southern Hemisphere .
June in the Northern Hemisphere is the seasonal equivalent to  दिसम्बर in the दक्षिणी गोलार्ध और वाइस versa  .
In the Northern hemisphere , the beginning of the meteorological  गर्मियाँ is 1 जून  .
In the Southern hemisphere , the beginning of the meteorological  शीत is  1 June .
At the start of June , the sun rises in the constellation of Taurus ; at the end of June  , the सूर्य उदय in  the constellation of Gemini .
However , due to the precession of  the equinoxes , जून begins साथ the सूर्य in the astrological चिह्न of मिथुन  , and ends with the sun in the astrological sign of Cancer .
June is known for the large number of marriages  कि occur over the कोर्स  of the month .
According to one etymology , June is named  बाद juno ( hera  ) .
Juno was the goddess of marriage and a married couple 's household , so some  consider it शुभ लक to be शादीशुदा in  this month .
According to another etymology provided by the Roman poet Ovid , June is named for the  iuniores , लैटिन लिये `` यंग लोगों '' ( fasti  VI.88 ) and that the month of May is named for the maiores , Latin for `` elders '' .
In Iceland , folklore says that if you bathe naked in the morning dew on the morning of June 24 , you are supposed to keep  वृद्धावस्था at खाड़ी  for longer .
A constitution is  a नियत of आधारभूत सिद्धान्त  or established precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed .
These rules together make up , i.e  . constitute , कया  the entity is .
When these principles are written down into a single document or set of legal documents , those documents may be said to embody a written constitution ; if they are written down in a  सिंगल व्यापक दस्तावेज़ , it is कहा to  embody a codified constitution .
Constitutions concern different  स्तर of संगठन  , from sovereign states to companies and unincorporated associations .
A treaty which establishes an international organization is also its constitution , in  कि it होता define कैसा कि संगठन is  constituted .
Within states , whether sovereign or federated , a  संविधान defines  the principles upon which the state is based , the procedure in which laws are made and by whom .
Some constitutions , especially  संहिताबद्ध constitutions , भी अधिनियम as limiters of राज्य शक्ति , by establishing  lines which a state 's rulers can not cross , such as fundamental rights .
George Washington at Constitutional Convention of  1787 , हस्ताक्षर of u.S. संविधान  .
The Constitution  of इण्डिया is the longest लिखा संविधान of कोई sovereign देश in the संसार ,  containing 448 articles , 12 schedules and 100 amendments , with 117,369 words in its English language version , while the United States Constitution is the shortest written constitution , at 7 articles and 27 amendments .
Ron Diftler ( left ) , NASA Robonaut manager assisting in a Robonaut familiarization training session in the Space Environment  सिमुलेशन प्रयोगशाला at नासा 's जॉनसन स्पेस  Center .
Engineering management is a specialized form of management  कि is चिंतित साथ the अनुप्रयोग  of engineering principles to business practice .
अभियान्त्रिकी प्रबन्धन is a करियर कि brings साथ the technological problem-solving savvy of अभियान्त्रिकी  and the organizational , administrative , and planning abilities of management in order to oversee complex enterprises from conception to completion .
Example areas of engineering are product  विकास , निर्माण  , construction , design engineering , industrial engineering , technology , production , or any other field that employs personnel who perform an engineering function .
Successful engineering managers  typically आवश्यकता  training and experience in business and engineering .
Technically inept  प्रबंधक tend to be वंचित of support  by their technical team , and non-commercial managers tend to lack commercial acumen to deliver in a market economy .
Largely , engineering managers manage engineers who are driven by  non-entrepreneurial  thinking , thus require the necessary people skills to coach , mentor and motivate technical professionals .
Engineering  पेशेवर  joining manufacturing companies sometimes become engineering managers by default after a period of time .
They are required  to सीख कैसा to मैनेज एकबार वे हैं  on the job , though this is usually an ineffective way to develop managerial abilities .
In an insurance policy , the deductible is the amount  of खर्च कि जरूर be  paid out of pocket before an insurer will pay any expenses .
In general usage , the term deductible may be used to  describe एक of अनेक प्रकार of clauses ( देखिए नीचे ) कि  are used by insurance companies as a threshold for policy payments .
Deductibles are  typically प्रयुक्त to deter  the large number of trivial claims that a consumer can be reasonably expected to bear the cost of .
By restricting its coverage to events that are significant enough to incur large costs , the  बीमे कड़ expects to अदा आउट थोड़ा छोटी amounts much कम  frequently , incurring much higher savings .
As a result , insurance premiums are  typically सस्ता जब वे involve  higher deductibles .
Deductibles are normally provided as clauses in an insurance policy that  dictate कैसा much of an insurance-covered व्यय is borne by  the policyholder .
They are normally quoted as a fixed  मात्रा और is a भाग  of most policies covering losses to the policy holder .
The insurer then becomes liable for  claimable खर्च कि  exceed this amount ( subject to the maximum sum claimable indicated in the contract ) .
Depending on the  नीति , the deductible  may apply per covered incident , or per year .
For policies where incidences are not easy to delimit ( for example health insurance ) , the  deductible is typically  applied per year .
Several deductibles can be set by the insurer based on  the कारण of the  claim .
For example , a single housing insurance policy may contain multiple deductible amounts for loss or damage arising from  चोरी , आग , प्राकृतिक calamities , निकासी  etc .
There are also deductible reimbursement programs that reimburse a deductible in the event of an auto  , घर , boat/yacht or स्वास्थ्य  insurance claim .
An invoice or bill is a commercial document issued by a seller to a buyer , indicating the products ,  quantities , और सहमत कीमतें  for products or services the seller has provided the buyer .
An  चालान indicates  the sale transaction only .
Payment terms are independent of the invoice and are  negotiated by the खरीदार और the  seller .
Payment  शर्तें हैं प्रायः  included on the invoice .
The buyer  could have already सशुल्क  for the products or services listed on the invoice .
Buyer can also have a maximum number of days in which to pay for these goods and is sometimes offered a discount if paid  पहले the due तिथि  .
In the rental industry , an invoice must include a specific  सन्दर्भ to the अवधि of the समय होने  billed , so in addition to quantity , price and discount the invoicing amount is also based on duration .
Generally each line of a  rental चालान होगा refer to the वास्तविक  hours , days , weeks , months , etc. , being billed .
From the point of view  of a विक्रेता , an चालान  is a sales invoice .
From the point of view of a  खरीदार , an चालान  is a purchase invoice .
The document indicates the buyer and seller , but the term  चालान indicates धन is owed  or owing .
In English , the context of the term  चालान is प्रायः प्रयुक्त to clarify इसके  meaning , such as `` We sent them an invoice '' ( they owe us money ) or `` We received an invoice from them '' ( we owe them money ) .
The right main  bronchus ( or  right primary bronchus , or right principal bronchus ) is a bronchus of the respiratory system .
It is wider , shorter , and more vertical in  दिशा than the बाएँ  .
It is  परिचय 2.5 cm long , और enters  the right lung nearly opposite the fifth thoracic vertebra .
The azygos  रग arches over  it from behind ; and the right pulmonary artery lies at first below and then in front of it .
About 2 cm from its  शुरुआत it देता बंद a शाखा to  the upper lobe of the right lung .
This is termed the eparterial branch of the bronchus , because it arises  ऊपर the सही pulmonary धमनी  .
The bronchus  अभी गुजरता नीचे the धमनी  , and is known as the hyparterial branch ; it divides into two branches for the middle and lower lobes .
If a foreign body in the airway passes through the trachea , it will most likely enter the right main bronchus instead of the left ,  due to the straighter संरेखण of the सही bronchus to the श्वासनली  .
Squash is a racquet sport played by two (  singles ) or चार खिलाड़ी ( युगल  ) in a four-walled court with a small , hollow rubber ball .
The players must alternate in striking the ball with their racquet and hit the ball onto the  playable सतहों of the चार दीवारें of  the court .
The game was formerly called squash racquets , a reference to the `` squashable '' soft ball used in the game ( compared with the  fatter बॉल प्रयुक्त in इसके जनक  game racquets or rackets ) .
Squash is recognized by the IOC and supporters are lobbying for its  incorporation in a भविष्य ओलम्पिक  program .
In 2003 ,  फोर्ब्स रेटेड स्क्वैश as  the number one healthiest sport to play .
Residual oil is oil found  in कम एकाग्रता naturally  or in exhausted oil fields .
Often mixed  साथ जल , it can नहीं be बरामद  by conventional techniques .
However , it can be recovered using carbon dioxide-enhanced oil recovery ( CO2 EOR ) which involves injecting  कार्बन डाइऑक्साइड into the खूब reducing श्यानता और  enhancing flow of the oil .
The technique is not new but has not been used extensively on  अवशेष आयल zones  , low-grade deposits of petroleum such as the 38 square miles in the Permian Basin of Texas leased by Elliott Roosevelt Jr .
The  तकनीक  is limited by availability of carbon dioxide .
It does  नहीं परिणाम in sequestration  of the carbon dioxide but the gas is recycled as much as possible .
United States reserves of residual  आयल हैं अनुमानित to  be 100 billion barrels .
Artist 's rendering of the fire , by John R. Chapin , originally  मुद्रित in हार्पर 's साप्ताहिक ; the दृश्य चेहरों  northeast across the Randolph Street Bridge .
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration that burned from Sunday , October 8 , to early Tuesday , October 10 , 1871 , killing hundreds  और destroying परिचय in शिकागो  , Illinois .
Though the fire was one of the  largest u.S. आपदाओं of the 19th सदी , the पुनर्निर्माण  that began helped develop Chicago as one of the most populous and economically important American cities .
Henry VIII ( 28 June 1491 – 28 January 1547 ) was king of England from 21  अप्रैल 1509 जबतक उसके मौत  .
He was lord , and later king , of Ireland , as well as continuing the nominal claim by the  अंग्रेज़ी monarchs to the किंगडम of  France .
हेनरी थी the दूसरी monarch of the ट्यूडर राजवंश  , succeeding his father , Henry VII .
Besides his six marriages , Henry VIII is known for his role in the separation of  the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे the रोमन  Catholic Church .
Henry 's struggles with Rome led to  the विरह of the  Church of England from papal authority , the Dissolution of the Monasteries , and his own establishment as the Supreme Head of the Church of England .
Yet  he remained a आस्तिक  in core Catholic theological teachings , even after his excommunication from the Roman Catholic Church .
Henry oversaw the legal union of England and Wales  साथ the कानून in वेल्स अधिनियमों 1535  and 1542 .
In 1513 , the new king allied with the Holy Roman Emperor ,  maximillian i , और invaded फ़्रांस in  1513 with a large , well-equipped army , but achieved little at a considerable financial cost .
Maximillian , for his part , used the  अंग्रेज़ी  invasion to his own ends , and this prejudiced England 's ability to defeat the French .
This foray would  prove the प्रारंभ of an obsession लिये हेनरी  , who invaded again in 1544 .
This time , Henry 's forces captured the important city of Boulogne , but again the Holy Roman Emperor , Charles V , supported Henry only as long as he needed to and  इंग्लैण्ड , strained by the विशाल लागत of the युद्ध , ransomed the नगर  back for peace .
उसके contemporaries माना हेनरी in उसके प्रधान to be an आकर्षक , शिक्षित और  accomplished king , and he has been described as `` one of the most charismatic rulers to sit on the English throne '' .
Besides ruling with absolute power , he also engaged himself as an author and  composer  .
His desire to provide England with a male heir – which stemmed partly from personal vanity and partly because he believed a daughter would be unable to consolidate the Tudor dynasty and the fragile peace that existed following the Wars of the Roses – led  to the दो बाते लिये जिससे हेनरी is सबसे remembered : उसके छह विवाह और  the English Reformation .
Henry became morbidly obese and  उसके स्वास्थ्य suffered , contributing  to his death in 1547 .
He is frequently characterised in his later life as a lustful , egotistical , harsh ,  और असुरक्षित किंग .
La Reina del Sur ( The Queen of the South ) is a Spanish-language  telenovela उत्पादित  by the United States television network Telemundo , in conjunction with the Antena 3 network and RTI Producciones .
Based on a novel of the  वही नाम by स्पेनी लेखक arturo pérez-reverte , the नाटक  depicts the rise of Teresa Mendoza ( Kate del Castillo ) , a young woman from Mexico who becomes the most powerful drug trafficker in southern Spain .
Patricio Wills , the president of Telemundo Television Studios ,  थी the  executive producer .
Though La  reina डेल सूर थी मनोनीत  for Novela of the Year , Favorite Lead Actress , and Best Bad Luck Video , it won no awards .
With a $ 10 million budget , La  reina डेल  Sur was the most expensive telenovela ever produced by Telemundo .
The program 's premiere on February 28 , 2011 , was the network 's highest  रेटेड प्रीमियर लिये a telenovela  to date .
The program frequently dominated  इसके समय स्लॉट , भी over अंग्रेज़ी  language programming on other major U.S. networks .
La Reina del Sur completed its 63 episode run on  telemundo और इसके 13 एपीसोड चलाएं  on Antena 3 simultaneously on May 30 , 2011 .
The final episode was the highest rated broadcast  in telemundo 's 19-year इतिहास ( 4.2 लाख दर्शक  ) , and beat all of the English language U.S. television networks to earn the number one slot in the 18-49 adult demographic .
The program 's success spurred Telemundo to launch its first campaign to gain  the श्रेणी an एमी पुरस्कार नामांकन  .
A one-night  खास featuring अनेक डाल सदस्यों  aired on May 31 , 2011 , and marked the Telemundo debut of noted Latina television personality Cristina Saralegui .
La Reina del Sur is broadcast in several other markets , including  सर्बिया , कोलंबिया , चिली , साइप्रस  , Nicaragua , Costa Rica , Mexico , Albania , Hungary , Slovenia , Croatia , Romania , ( among others ) .
An  उदाहरण  of rack mounted servers
A web hosting service is a type of Internet hosting service  कि allows individuals  and organizations to make their website accessible via the World Wide Web .
Web hosts  हैं कंपनियाँ कि provide स्पेस on a सर्वर  owned or leased for use by clients , as well as providing Internet connectivity , typically in a data center .
Web hosts can also provide data center space and connectivity to the Internet for other servers located in their  आंकड़ा बीच , पुकारा colocation , भी ज्ञात as आवास in लैटिन  America or France .
the पैमाना of वेब  hosting services varies greatly .
The most basic is web page and small-scale file hosting ,  जहाँ फाइलें can be अपलोड  via File Transfer Protocol ( FTP ) or a Web interface .
The  फाइलें हैं प्रायः वितरित  to the Web `` as is '' or with minimal processing .
अनेक अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं  ( ISPs ) offer this service free to subscribers .
Individuals and organizations may also obtain Web page hosting  इससे वैकल्पिक सेवा  providers .
Personal web site hosting is  typically फ़्री  , advertisement-sponsored , or inexpensive .
Business web site hosting often has a higher expense depending upon the size and type  of the जालस्थल  .
Single page hosting is  generally sufficient  for personal web pages .
A complex site calls for a more comprehensive package that provides database support and application development  प्लेटफ़ॉर्म ( e.g . पीएचपी , जावा , माणिक्य on rails  , ColdFusion , or ASP.NET ) .
These facilities allow customers to write or install  स्क्रिप्ट लिये अनुप्रयोग जैसे  forums and content management .
Also , Secure  sockets परत (  SSL ) is typically used for e-commerce .
The host may also provide an interface or control  फलक लिये  managing the Web server and installing scripts , as well as other modules and service applications like e-mail .
Some hosts specialize in certain software  or सेवाएं ( e.g . e-commerce ) , जिससे हैं  commonly used by larger companies that outsource network infrastructure .
Madden NFL ( known as  जॉन मैडेन फ़ुटबॉल पहले 1993 ) is an अमरीकी  football video game series developed by Electronic Arts Tiburon for EA Sports .
The game series is named after Pro Football Hall of Famer John Madden , a well-known former Super Bowl –winning coach of the  ओकलैंड हमलावरों और रंग कमेंटेटर  .
The series is  the बेहतरीन selling ea  Sports series .
The games have consistently been a best seller , and has even spawned TV shows  जहाँ खिलाड़ी  compete .
Among the game 's realistic features include sophisticated playbooks and player statistics , and voice commentary  कि allows खिलाड़ी  to hear the game as if it were a real TV broadcast .
The Madden NFL series has been nicknamed  the एनएफएल 's 33rd मताधिकार  .
The series was originally conceived  by इलेक्ट्रॉनिक कला संस्थापक ट्रिप हॉकिन्स  , who then approached Madden in 1984 for his endorsement and expertise .
Due to Madden 's insistence  कि the खेल be  as realistic as possible , the first version of John Madden Football was not released until 1988 .
the दूसरी संस्करण of the  game was released in 1990 , with annual versions since then .
The series ' name was changed to Madden  एनएफएल in 1993 बाद ea acquired the  rights to use NFL teams and players .
Despite Madden 's retirement as a broadcaster in  2009 , he continues  to lend his name and provide expertise for the game .
Cindy Lee Miller Sheehan ( born July 10 , 1957 ) is an American  antiwar  activist whose son , U.S. Army Specialist Casey Sheehan , was killed by enemy action during the Iraq War .
She attracted  नेशनल और अंतरराष्ट्रीय मीडिया ध्यान in अगस्त  2005 for her extended antiwar protest at a makeshift camp outside President George W. Bush 's Texas ranch —a stand that drew both passionate support and angry criticism .
Sheehan ran  unsuccessfully लिये कॉंग्रेस in  2008 .
She is a  गायन आलोचक of  President Barack Obama 's foreign policy .
Her memoir , Peace Mom : A Mother 's  यात्रा  Through Heartache to Activism , was published in 2006 .
Sheehan was the 2012  vice-presidential nominee of the सलाम और  Freedom Party .
Wyclef  jeanelle जां ( ; ; born  October 17 , 1969 ) Wyclef Dumped From Haiti 's Presidential Ballot – TIME , Aug 21 , 2010 .
`` Before he announced on August 5 that he was running for President of Haiti , Wyclef  जां थी  still listing his age as only 37 years old .
But after declaring himself a presidential candidate , the Haitian-American-Irish hip-hop star also decided to come clean and confirm that he was  वाकई 40 . '' is a three-time ग्रैमी पुरस्कार -winning haitian-american rapper , singer-songwriter , संगीतकार , रिकार्ड  producer , and politician .
At age nine , Jean moved to  the संयुक्त राज्य साथ उसके  family and has spent much of his life in the country .
he पहला प्राप्त  fame as a member of the acclaimed New Jersey hip hop group the Fugees .
On August 5 , 2010 , Jean filed for candidacy in the 2010 Haitian presidential election , although the Electoral Commission subsequently  शासित उसे अयोग्य to स्टैंड as he था नहीं मिले the आवश्यकता  to have been resident in Haiti for five years .
Wyclef Jean to appeal against  हैती चुनाव सत्ताधारी  – BBC News , Aug 22 , 2010 .
Haiti 's electoral commission said that Mr  जां  was ineligible to stand as the Haitian constitution requires candidates to have lived in the country for five years prior to an election .
The  40-year-old सिंगर  lives in the US .
Jean 's efforts at earthquake relief ,  अत्यधिक publicized  in 2010 throughout Haiti and the United States , were channeled through his charitable organization , Yéle Haiti .
The charity , which  performed a किस्में of charitable  works in Haiti between 2005 and 2010 , effectively closed in 2012 .
In law , a set-off is a statutory defense to the whole or to a portion of a  अभियोक्ता 's अर्जी  .
It had no existence  अंतर्गत the अंग्रेज़ी आम विधि  , being created by 2 Geo . II c. 22 for the relief of insolvent debtors , although set-off was recognized in equity .
Such a defense could be pleaded only in respect of mutual  debts of a definite अक्षर , और  did not apply to cases in which damages were claimed , nor to equitable claims or demands .
By the rules of the Supreme Court (  O. xix . r. 3 ) a प्रतिवादी in an कार्रवाई may नियत बंद  or set up any right or claim by way of counterclaim against the claims of a plaintiff , and such set-off or counterclaim has the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross-action .
The legal defense of set-off ( above ) was originally introduced to prevent the unfair situation whereby a person ( `` Party A '' ) who owed money to another ( `` Party B '' ) could  be भेजा to कर्जदार थाना , despite the फैक्ट कि पार्टी b भी  owed money to Party A .
The law  यूँ allows दोनो पार्टियों to टालना  payment until their respective claims have been heard in court .
Upon judgment , both claims are extinguished and replaced by a single net sum owing ( e.g . If Party A owes Party B 100 and  पार्टी b owes पार्टी a 105 , the दो  sums are set off and replaced with a single obligation of 5 from Party B to Party A ) .
Set-off can also be incorporated by contractual agreement so that  , जहाँ a पार्टी मूलभूत  , the mutual amounts owing are automatically set off and extinguished .
In certain  jurisdictions ( सहित  the UK ) , set-off takes place automatically upon the insolvency of a company .
This means that , for each party which is both a creditor and debtor of the insolvent company , mutual debts are set-off against each other , and then either the bankrupt 's  creditor can अर्जी the संतुलन in the दिवालियापन or the ट्रस्टी  in bankruptcy can ask for the balance remaining to be paid , depending on which side owed the most .
इस रै महरूम criticized as an undeclared सुरक्षा  interest that violates the principle of pari passu .
The alternative , where a creditor has to pay all its debts , but receive only a  सीमित portion of the leftover moneys कि अन्य unsecured लेनदारों  get , poses the danger of 'knock-on ' insolvencies .
The right to set  बंद is विशेषकर  important when reporting a bank 's exposures to regulatory authorities .
The  हालात जहाँ a बैंको रै to रपट कि it रै lent a विशाल योग to a  borrower ( and is therefore exposed , because there is a risk that the borrower might default thereby leading to the loss of the bank 's or its depositors ' money ) is thus replaced ( where the bank has taken security over shares or securities of the borrower ) with an exposure of the money lent minus the value of the security taken .
जेनिफर  Joanna Aniston ( born February 11 , 1969 ) is an American actress , film director , and producer .
Aniston gained worldwide recognition  in the 1990s लिये portraying रेचल ग्रीन on the टेलीविज़न sitcom मित्रों , a भूमिका जिससे अर्जित  her an Emmy Award , a Golden Globe Award , and a Screen Actors Guild Award .
Aniston has  भी enjoyed  a successful Hollywood film career .
She gained critical acclaim for  उसके प्रदर्शन  in the independent films She 's the One ( 1996 ) , Office Space ( 1999 ) , The Good Girl ( 2002 ) and Friends with Money ( 2006 ) .
She has had her greatest commercial successes with the  films ब्रूस सर्वशक्तिमान ( 2003  ) , The Break-Up ( 2006 ) , Marley & Me ( 2008 ) , Just Go with It ( 2011 ) and Horrible Bosses ( 2011 ) .
Aniston received a star on the Hollywood Walk of  कीर्ति on फ़रवरी 22  , 2012 .
A white Bengal tiger at the  ह्यूस्टन एक्वेरियम
(  video )
A White  बाघ at tobu  Zoo , in Saitama , Japan .
The white tiger is a recessive mutant of the Bengal tiger , which was reported  in the जंगली इससे समय to समय in असम , बंगाल , बिहार और विशेषकर इससे  the former State of Rewa .
Conventional PCI ( PCI is an initialism formed from Peripheral Component Interconnect , part of the PCI Local Bus  मानक और प्रायः shortened to बस  PCI ) is a local computer bus for attaching hardware devices in a computer .
The PCI bus supports the functions found  on a प्रोसेसर बस , लकिन in a मानकीकृत स्वरूप कि  is independent of any particular processor .
Devices connected to the bus appear to  the प्रोसेसर to be कनेक्ट  directly to the processor bus , and are assigned addresses in the processor 's address space .
संलग्न डिवाइस  can take either the form of an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself , called a planar device in the PCI specification , or an expansion card that fits into a slot .
The PCI Local Bus was first implemented in IBM PC compatibles , where it displaced the combination of ISA plus one VESA Local Bus  as  the bus configuration .
It has  subsequently महरूम अपनाया  for other computer types .
PCI and PCI-X are being replaced by PCI Express , but , most  motherboards हैं स्टिल बना साथ एक or अधिक पीसीआई  slots , which are sufficient for many uses .
The PCI specification covers the physical size of the bus ( including the size and  अंतरण of the सर्किट फलक किनारे विद्युत सम्पर्क ) , विद्युत विशेषताएँ  , bus timing , and protocols .
The specification can be purchased from the PCI Special Interest  समूह ( pci-sig  ) .
Typical PCI cards used in PCs  शामिल : संजाल ताश , ध्वनि ताश , modems  , extra ports such as USB or serial , TV tuner cards and disk controllers .
PCI video cards replaced ISA and VESA cards , until growing bandwidth requirements outgrew the capabilities of PCI ; the  पसन्दीदा इंटरफ़ेस लिये वीडियो ताश became अगप , और तब पीसीआई  Express .
PCI video cards remain available for  उपयोग साथ बूढ़ा pcs बगैर  AGP or PCI Express slots .
Many devices previously provided on PCI expansion cards are now  commonly एकीकृत onto motherboards or उपलब्धियाँ in  universal serial bus and PCI Express versions .
Caffeine is a bitter , white crystalline xanthine  एल्कलॉएड कि अधिनियमों as a उत्तेजक  drug .
Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the seeds , leaves , and  फल of  some plants , where it acts as a natural pesticide that paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding on the plants , as well as enhancing the reward memory of pollinators .
It is  सबसे commonly खपत by इंसानो in infusions निकाली  from the seed of the coffee plant and the leaves of the tea bush , as well as from various foods and drinks containing products derived from the kola nut .
Other sources include yerba maté , guarana berries ,  guayusa , और the yaupon  holly .
In humans , caffeine acts as a central nervous system stimulant , temporarily warding off  drowsiness और restoring  alertness .
It is the world 's most widely  खपत psychoactive ड्रग , लकिन  unlike many other psychoactive substances , it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world .
पेय containing कैफीन  , such as coffee , tea , soft drinks , and energy drinks , enjoy great popularity .
In North America , 90 % of adults consume caffeine   daily .
Part of the reason caffeine is classified by the Food and Drug  प्रशासन as ग्रा ( generally  recognized as safe ) is that toxic doses ( over 10 grams ) are much higher than typically used doses ( less than 500 milligrams ) .
Ordinary consumption can have low health risks , even when carried on for years – there may be a  modest सुरक्षात्मक प्रभाव विरूद्ध कुछ रोगों , सहित parkinsons बीमारी , और निश्चित प्रकार of  cancer .
Caffeine can have both  धनात्मक और ऋणात्मक प्रभाव  on anxiety disorders .
Some people experience sleep disruption if they consume caffeine , especially during the evening hours , but others show little  disturbance और the प्रभाव of कैफीन on नींद  is highly variable .
Evidence of a risk to pregnancy is equivocal  , लकिन कुछ अधिकारियों have  concluded that prudent advice is for pregnant women to limit consumption to the equivalent of two cups of coffee per day or less .
The American Congress of  obstetricians और स्त्रीरोग ( acog ) concluded  in 2010 that caffeine consumption is safe up to 200 mg per day in pregnant women .
Caffeine has pressor and mild diuretic effects when administered to people who  हैं नहीं प्रयुक्त to it , लकिन नियमित  users develop a tolerance to this effect , and studies have generally failed to support the common notion that ordinary consumption contributes significantly to dehydration .
With heavy use , tolerance develops  rapidly to autonomic प्रभाव ऐसे as elevated दिल रेट और मांसपेशी  twitching , but not to the cognitive or arousal effects of caffeine .
The degree to which caffeine can produce clinically significant physical and mental dependence remains a  विषय of विवाद in the चिकित्सा साहित्य  .
A  kicktail  cruiser
A  longboard is a longer  variant of a skateboard .
It is commonly used for  cruising , downhill रेसिंग  , slalom racing , sliding , and/or transport .
Sources outside  of विकिपीडिया  give differing estimates:
The CIA 's World Factbook gives the world population as 7,021,836,029 ( July 2012 est . ) and the  वितरण of धर्मों as ईसाई 100 % ( of जिससे रोमन कैथोलिक 18.85 % , प्रोटोस्टेंट 8.15 % , परंपरागत 4.96 % , anglican 1.26 % ) , मुस्लिम 22.74  % , Hindu 13.8 % , Buddhist 6.77 % , Sikh 0.35 % , Jewish 0.22 % , Baha'i 0.11 % , other religions 10.95 % , non-religious 9.66 % , atheists 2.01 % .
( 2010  est . ) .
The Coast Ranges of California span from  हम्बोल्ट काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया दक्षिण to  Santa Barbara County .
The  अन्य तीन तटीय कैलिफ़ोर्निया  mountain ranges are the Transverse Ranges , Peninsular Ranges and the Klamath Mountains .
physiographically , वे हैं a खण्ड of the larger प्रशांत किनारा  province , which in turn are part of the larger Pacific Mountain System physiographic division .
UNESCO has included the  `` कैलिफ़ोर्निया coast सीमाएँ जीवमंडल  Reserve `` in its Man and the Biosphere Programme of World Network of Biosphere Reserves since 1983 .
Vehicles in use per  देश इससे  2001 to 2007 .
It shows the  significant विकास in  BRIC .
World map of passenger cars  प्रति 1000  people
An automobile , autocar , motor car or car is a wheeled motor vehicle used for transporting passengers , which  भी carries इसके अपना इंजन  or motor .
Most definitions of the term specify that automobiles are designed to run primarily on roads , to have seating for one to eight people , to typically have four wheels ,  और to be constructed प्रधानतया लिये the हस्तांतरण of लोगों बल्कि  than goods .
The term motorcar has also been used  in the कॉन्टेक्स्ट of electrified रेल प्रणालियों to  denote a car which functions as a small locomotive but also provides space for passengers and baggage .
These locomotive cars were often used on  suburban रूट  by both interurban and intercity railroad systems .
It was estimated in 2010 that the number of automobiles had risen to over 1 billion vehicles , up from the  500 लाख of 1986  .
The numbers are  increasing rapidly , विशेषकर  in China and India .
John Fitzgerald `` Jack '' Kennedy ( May 29 , 1917 – November 22 , 1963 ) , often referred to by his initials JFK , was the 35th President of the United  राज्य , सेवारत इससे 1961 जबतक उसके मौत in 1963  .
After  सैन्य सेवा as कमांडर of the मोटर torpedo नौकाएँ  PT-109 and PT-59 during World War II in the South Pacific , Kennedy represented Massachusetts ' 11th congressional district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953 as a Democrat .
Thereafter , he served in  the u.S. सीनेट  from 1953 until 1960 .
Kennedy defeated Vice  अध्यक्ष और रिपब्लिकन प्रत्याशी  Richard Nixon in the 1960 U.S. presidential election .
At 43 years of age , he is the youngest to have been elected to the office , the second-youngest President ( after  थियोडोर रूज़वेल्ट ) , और the  first person born in the 20th century to serve as president .
A Catholic , Kennedy is the only non- Protestant president , and is the only president to  have जीती a पुलित्जर पुरस्कार  .
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs  आक्रमण , the क्यूबन मिसाइल संकट , the भवन  of the Berlin Wall , the Space Race , the African-American Civil Rights Movement , and early stages of the Vietnam War .
Therein , Kennedy increased the number of  सैन्य advisers , खास आपरेशन शक्तियां  , and helicopters in an effort to curb the spread of communism in South East Asia .
The Kennedy administration adopted the policy of the Strategic  हैमलेट कार्यक्रम जिससे थी implemented  by the South Vietnamese government .
It involved certain forced relocation , village internment , and segregation of rural South Vietnamese  इससे the उत्तरी और दक्षिणी  communist insurgents .
Kennedy was assassinated on November 22 , 1963 in  डलास , टेक्सास  .
Lee Harvey Oswald was charged with the crime , but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby  दो दिनों बाद , पहले a विचारण could  take place .
The FBI and the Warren Commission  officially concluded  that Oswald was the lone assassin .
However , the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations ( HSCA ) concluded that  those investigations यहूद flawed और कि  Kennedy was probably assassinated as the result of a conspiracy .
however , एबीसी न्यूज in उनके छानबीन  , The Kennedy Assassination : Beyond Conspiracy , confirmed the findings of the Warren Commission ; having concluded Oswald acted alone .
Kennedy 's controversial Department of Defense TFX fighter bomber program led to a Congressional  छानबीन कि lasted इससे 1963  to 1970 .
Since the 1960s  सूचना concerning कैनेडी  's private life has come to light .
Details of  कैनेडी 's स्वास्थ्य समस्याएं  in which he struggled have become better known , especially since the 1990s .
Although initially kept secret from the  सामान्य पब्लिक , रिपोर्ट्स of कैनेडी 's philandering  have garnered much press .
Kennedy ranks highly in public opinion ratings of U.S.  राष्ट्रपतियों  .
A Siemens MXL fire alarm control panel (  शीर्ष ) और ग्राफिक annunciator (  bottom ) for Potomac Hall , at James Madison University .
A Vigilant VM-1 fire alarm control unit ( FACU ) / autonomous  कंट्रोल ईकाई ( acu ) साथ एकीकृत  voice evacuation and fire fighter telephone system .
manufactured  by Edwards , A UTC F & S Company
A Fire Alarm Control Panel ( FACP ) , or Fire Alarm Control Unit (  facu ) , is the controlling  component of a Fire Alarm System .
The panel receives information from environmental sensors designed to detect changes associated with fire , monitors their operational integrity and provides for automatic control of equipment , and transmission of information necessary  to तैयारी the सुविधा लिये आग  based on a predetermined sequence .
The panel may also supply electrical energy to operate any associated sensor , control  , ट्रांसमीटर  , or relay .
There are four basic types of  panels : coded  panels , conventional panels , addressable panels , and multiplex systems .
This is a list of the  पहला म्यूज़िक वीडियो ब्रॉडकास्ट  on MTV 's first day , August 1 , 1981 .
MTV 's first day on the  एयर थी rebroadcast on vh1 क्लासिक in 2006 और अपलोड  onto YouTube in 2010 ( although only the first four hours were authentic ; the rest were edited VH1 rebroadcasts ) .
Bandaranaike International Airport ( BIA ) ( also known as Katunayake International Airport and  कोलोन अंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानक्षेत्र ) is एक of the दो अंतरराष्ट्रीय एयरपोर्ट  serving the city of Colombo , the other is Ratmalana International Airport .
mattala राजपक्षे  International Airport located in southern city of Hambantota is the other international airport in Sri Lanka .
भण्डारनायके अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Airport is located in Katunayake , 22 miles ( 35 km ) north of Colombo .
It is administered by Airport and Aviation  सेवाएं ( श्री लंका )  Ltd .
It is the hub of SriLankan Airlines , the national  वाहक of श्री लंका , और  Mihin Lanka , the budget airline of Sri Lanka .
ब्लैक swan is a 2010 अमरीकी मनोवैज्ञानिक थ्रिलर  and horror film directed by Darren Aronofsky and starring Natalie Portman , Vincent Cassel , and Mila Kunis .
The  प्लाट घूमती  around a production of Tchaikovsky 's Swan Lake ballet by a prestigious New York City company .
The production requires a ballerina to play the innocent and fragile White Swan , for which the committed dancer Nina ( Portman ) is a perfect fit , as well as the dark and sensual Black Swan  ,  which are qualities embodied by the new arrival Lily ( Kunis ) .
Nina is overwhelmed by a feeling of immense pressure when she finds herself competing for the part , causing her  to खोना उसके tenuous पकड़ on वास्तविकता और descend  into a living nightmare .
Aronofsky conceived the premise by connecting his viewings  of a उत्पादन of swan झील साथ an unrealized पटकथा परिचय understudies  and the notion of being haunted by a double , similar to the folklore surrounding doppelgängers .
Aronofsky cites Fyodor  दोस्तोयेव्स्की 's `` the दोगुना  `` as another inspiration for the film .
The director also considered Black Swan a companion piece to his 2008  फिल्मी the पहलवान ,  with both films involving demanding performances for different kinds of art .
He and Portman  पहला discussed the प्रोजेक्ट in 2000 , और  after a brief attachment to Universal Studios , Black Swan was produced in New York City in 2009 by Fox Searchlight Pictures .
Portman and Kunis trained in ballet for several months prior to  फिल्मांकन , और notable आंकड़े  from the ballet world helped with film production to shape the ballet presentation .
The film premiered as  the खोलने फिल्मी लिये the 67th वेनिस अंतरराष्ट्रीय  Film Festival on September 1 , 2010 .
it था a सीमित  release in the United States starting December 3 , 2010 and opened nationwide on December 17 .
Black Swan received critical praise upon its release  , विशेषकर लिये पोर्टमैन 's प्रदर्शन और aronofsky 's दिशा  , and was a significant box office success , grossing $ 329 million worldwide .
The film received five Academy Award nominations and Portman won the Best Actress  पुरस्कार लिये the  film , as well as many other Best Actress awards in several guilds and festivals , while Aronofsky was nominated for Best Director .
In addition , the film itself received a  नामांकन  for Best Picture .
The world’s first ice-calorimeter ,  प्रयुक्त in the शीत of 1782-83 , by एंटोनी  Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon Laplace , to determine the heat involved in various chemical changes ; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat .
These experiments mark the foundation of  thermochemistry  .
A calorimeter ( from Latin calor , meaning heat )  is an ऑब्जेक्ट प्रयुक्त लिये कैलोरीमिति  , or the process of measuring the heat of chemical reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity .
Differential scanning calorimeters , isothermal microcalorimeters , titration calorimeters and accelerated rate  calorimeters हैं among  the most common types .
A simple calorimeter just consists of a thermometer attached to  a मेटल  container full of water suspended above a combustion chamber .
To find the enthalpy change per mole  of a पदार्थ a in a प्रतिक्रिया between दो substances a और b , the substances  are added to a calorimeter and the initial and final temperatures ( before the reaction started and after it has finished ) are noted .
Multiplying the temperature change by the mass and specific heat capacities of the substances gives a  मान लिये the उर्जा दिए बंद or अवशोषित  during the reaction .
Dividing the energy change by how many moles of A  यहूद उपस्थित देता इसके enthalpy बदलें  of reaction .
This method is used primarily in academic teaching as it describes the  सिद्धान्त of कैलोरीमिति  .
It does not account for the heat loss through the container or the  ऊष्मा क्षमता of the थर्मामीटर और संग्राहक itself .
In addition , the object placed inside the calorimeter shows that the objects transferred their heat to the calorimeter and into the liquid , and the heat absorbed by  the ऊष्मामापी और the द्रव is बराबर to  the heat given off by the metals .
A pair of  ग्रीन flip-flops
Flip-flops ( also called zōri , thongs , jandals , or a variety of other names throughout the world ) are a type of open-toed sandal typically  worn in कैज़ुअल परिस्थितियों  , such as outside or at the beach .
They consist of a flat sole held loosely on the  पैर by a y-shaped डोरी कि गुजरता between the  first and second toes and around either side of the foot .
वे may भी be आयोजित to the पैर साथ a  single strap over the front of the foot rather than a thong .
The name `` flip-flop ''  originated  because of the sound that is made by slapping between the sole of the foot and the floor when walking .
इस स्टाइल of जूते रै महरूम worn  by the people of many cultures throughout the world , originating as early as the ancient Egyptians in 4,000 B.C .
The modern flip-flop descends from the Japanese zōri , which became popular after World War II when  सैनिको returning to the संयुक्त राज्य brought  them back .
They became popular in casual settings during the 1960s ,  1990s , और 2000s  , and some varieties have even found their way into more formal attire , despite criticism .
The  उपयोग of flip-flops can परिणाम in अनेक pains और  injuries , including ankle sprains and broken bones .
Some individuals who walk for  long अवधि रपट पीड़ा in  the feet , ankles , and lower legs .
The lack of support provided by flip-flops often results  in over-pronation चोटों  , caused by the foot slipping inwards further than normal .
इस can सीसे  to flat feet and tendonitis .
Other injuries that may result are due to the footwear 's open-toed nature , such  as stubbed toes ,  cuts , and bruises .
Doctors recommend purchasing pricier sandals with thick-cushioned soles , as well as those that have a strap that is  नहीं कैनवास और कि आता वापस लगभग to the  ankle .
The owners of Hanjin Osaka ,  देखी यहाँ transiting  the Panama Canal in 2008 , declared general average following an explosion in the ship 's engine room on .
The law of general average is a legal  principle of मेरीटाइम विधि according to जिससे सब पार्टियों in a समुद्र venture proportionally  share any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency .
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea  , क्रू सदस्यों प्रायः have अनमोल छोटी समय  in which to determine precisely whose cargo they are jettisoning .
Thus , to avoid quarrelling  कि could बर्बाद मूल्यवान समय , वहीँ  arose the equitable practice whereby all the merchants whose cargo landed safely would be called on to contribute a portion , based upon a share or percentage , to the merchant or merchants whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril .
While general average traces  इसके origins in प्राचीन मेरीटाइम विधि , स्टिल it remains भाग of the admiralty  law of most countries .
The first codification of general average was the York Antwerp Rules  of 1890 .
American companies  स्वीकृत it in 1949  .
General average requires  तीन तत्व जिससे हैं  clearly stated by Mr. Justice Grier in Barnard v. Adams:
``  1st  .
A common danger : a danger in which vessel , cargo and crew all participate ; a danger imminent and apparently 'inevitable , ' except by voluntarily incurring the  घाटा of a portion of the पूरे to सहेजें the शेष . ''
`` 2nd . There must be a voluntary jettison , jactus , or casting away , of some portion of the joint concern for  the purpose of बचने इस निकट peril ,  periculi imminentis evitandi causa , or , in other words , a transfer of the peril from the whole to a particular portion of the whole . ''
``  3rd .
This  attempt to avoid the निकट  common peril must be successful '' .
Example Polish call for vaccination against  डिप्थीरिया  and Tetanus .
a टीकाकरण अनुसूची is a  series of vaccinations , including the timing of all doses , which may be either recommended or compulsory , depending on the country of residence .
A vaccine is an antigenic preparation used to produce active immunity to a disease , in order  to prevent or reduce  the effects of infection by any natural or `` wild '' pathogen .
Many vaccines require multiple doses for maximum effectiveness , either to produce sufficient initial immune response  or to बूस्ट  response that fades over time .
For example , tetanus vaccine boosters  हैं प्रायः  recommended every 10 years .
Vaccine  schedules हैं विकसित by सरकारी एजेंसियों or physicians समूह  to achieve maximum effectiveness using required and recommended vaccines for a locality while minimizing the number of health care system interactions .
Over the past two decades , the recommended vaccination schedule has grown rapidly  और become अधिक जटिल  as many new vaccines have been developed .
Some  टीके हैं अनुशंसित तभी in निश्चित क्षेत्रों ( देशों  , subnational areas , or at-risk populations ) where a disease is common .
For instance , yellow fever  टीकाकरण is on the दिनचर्या टीका अनुसूची of फ्रेंच guiana , is अनुशंसित  in certain regions of Brazil but in the United States is only given to travelers heading to countries with a history of the disease .
In developing countries , vaccine recommendations also take into account  the स्तर of स्वास्थ्य परवाह अभिगम , the लागत  of vaccines and issues with vaccine availability and storage .
Sample vaccinations schedules discussed by the World Health Organization show a developed country using a schedule which extends over the first five years of a child 's life and uses vaccines which cost over $ 700 including administration costs while a developing country  उपयोग a अनुसूची providing टीके in the पहला 9 महीने of  life and costing only $ 25 .
This difference is due to the lower cost of health care , the lower cost of many vaccines provided to developing nations , and that more  महंगी टीके , प्रायः लिये  less common diseases , are not utilized .
In 1900 , the smallpox vaccine was the only one  administered to children  .
By the early 1950s , children routinely received four vaccines , for protection against ( diphtheria , pertussis , tetanus , polio , and  smallpox ) , और as अनेक as पाँच गोलियाँ by दो सालो  of age .
चूंकि the mid-1980s , अनेक टीके  have been added to the schedule .
, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (  सीडीसी ) अभी अनुशंसा टीकाकरण  against at least fourteen diseases .
By two years of age , U.S. children receive as many as 24  टीका injections , और might प्राप्त up to पाँच  shots during one visit to the doctor .
The use of combination vaccine products means that , , the United Kingdom 's immunization program consists of 10 injections by  the आयु of दो , बल्कि than 25 if टीकाकरण लिये प्रत्येक बीमारी  was given as a separate injection .
Two  revellers  dance in the streets .
The form of dancing is called `` wining '' (  घुमावदार )  pronounced wine-ing
A Music Truck  entertains the  crowd on the streets .
Trucks are an  अभिन्न भाग of  the street parade , featuring live performances or deejays
The Trinidad and Tobago Carnival is an annual event held on the Monday and Tuesday before Ash Wednesday , and is well known for participant 's colorful costumes and  समृद्ध जश्न  .
Carnival in Trinidad and Tobago is the most significant event on the islands ' cultural and tourism calendar , with numerous cultural events running in the lead  up to the गली परेड on कार्निवल सोमवार  and Tuesday .
It is said that if the islanders are not celebrating it , then they are preparing for it ,  जबकि reminiscing परिचय  the past year 's festival .
The heart  of the musical जश्न रै महरूम  calypso ; recently soca has replaced calypso as the most celebrated type of music .
वेशभूषा  , stickfighting and limbo competitions are also important components of the festival .
Carnival as it is celebrated in Trinidad and Tobago  is भी मनाये in शहरों विश्वव्यापी  .
These including Toronto 's Caribana , Miami 's Miami  कार्निवल , ह्यूस्टन carifest , लंदन  's Notting Hill Carnival as well as New York City 's Labor Day Carnival to name a few .
Carnival was created when West African slaves mimicked  उनके फ्रेंच स्वामी जो जहाँ ज्ञात  for their lavish costumes balls .
हराम to partake in ये festivities  and confined to their quarters , slaves combined elements from their own cultures to their master 's fete .
Hence the creation of characters such as Jab Jab or Jab Molassie ( Devils ) , Midnight Robbers ,  imps , lagahroo , soucouyant  , La Diablesse and Demons .
With the abolition of slavery in 1838 , freed Africans  took उनके  version of Carnival to the streets through expression of drums , riddim sections like tamboo bamboo and as each new immigrant population entered Trinidad , Carnival evolved into what we know today .
The city of Chicago , Illinois  आयोजित a nonpartisan mayoral चुनाव  on Tuesday , February 22 , 2011 .
Incumbent Mayor Richard M. Daley , a member of the Democratic Party who  था महरूम in दफ्तर  since 1989 , did not seek a seventh term as mayor .
Candidates needed to collect  12,500 याचिका हस्ताक्षर by नवम्बर  22 , 2010 to qualify for a place on the ballot .
April 5 , 2011 was scheduled to be a runoff election date if no  प्रत्याशी प्राप्त an  absolute majority .
Rahm Emanuel won the race for mayor with more  than 55 % of the vote  .
He was  उदघाटन on may  16 , 2011 .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' is a song by American  इंडी पॉप बैंड फोस्टर  the People .
It was released as the group 's debut single in  सितंबर 2010 , और the following साल थी शामिल  on their EP Foster the People and their debut album Torches .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' became the group 's breakthrough hit  और थी एक of  the most popular songs of 2011 .
The song was written and  अंकित by frontman चिह्नित  Foster while he was working as a commercial jingle writer .
Contrasting with the upbeat musical composition , the  गीत describe the  homicidal thoughts of a troubled youth .
The track received considerable attention after it was posted online  in 2010 as a फ़्री डाउनलोड , और it helped the समूह गार्नर a multi-album रिकार्ड सौदे  with Columbia Records imprint Startime International .
`` Pumped Up Kicks '' proved to be a sleeper hit ; in 2011 , after  receiving significant airplay on आधुनिक  rock stations , the song crossed-over onto contemporary hit radio stations .
The song spent  आठ लगातार सप्ताह at क्रमांक तीन on the बिलबोर्ड hot  100 chart in the United States , making it the first Billboard Alternative Songs number-one single to crack the U.S. top 5 since Kings of Leon 's `` Use Somebody `` in 2009 .
The song was widely praised by critics , and it has been licensed for use  in a चौड़ी  range of popular media since its release .
`` Pumped Up Kicks  '' प्राप्त a ग्रैमी पुरस्कार नामांकन  for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance .
The State  मेला of वेस्ट वर्जिनिया  is an annual state fair for West Virginia .
It is held annually in mid-August on the State Fairgrounds in  fairlea , निकट lewisburg ,  West Virginia in the southeastern part of the state .
The State  fairgrounds consists of a विशाल खोलें फ़ील्ड लिये  carnivals and exhibitions , a horse track , grandstands , and several exhibition buildings .
Free parking is provided adjacent to the fairgrounds and , until  2006 , फ़्री कैंप थी भी उपलब्धियाँ in a विशाल फ़ील्ड साथ  running-water toilets and showers , but no hookups .
Campers are now  चार्ज a छोटी  fee .
The White House , the president  's आधिकारिक निवास और  center of the administration
Under the  संयुक्त राज्य संविधान , the अध्यक्ष  of the United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the  संघीय सरकारी as a पूरे , the प्रेसिडेंसी is the उच्चतम राजनैतिक दफ्तर in the  United States by influence and recognition .
The president is also  the commander-in-chief of  the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the House of Representatives should the Electoral College fail to award an  निरपेक्ष बहुमत  of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the  twenty-second amendment to the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान in 1951 , no व्यक्ति  may be elected President more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or removal from  दफ्तर of an लाज़िम अध्यक्ष  , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35 years of  आयु और a ``  natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This list  शामिल तभी those व्यक्तियों जो यहूद sworn  into office as president following the ratification of the United States Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For  अमरीकी नेताओ  before this ratification , see President of the Continental Congress .
the सूची करता नहीं शामिल कोई एक्टिंग  Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served two non-consecutive terms and  is गिने क्रमबद्धता as दोनो the 22nd और 24th अध्यक्ष  .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated  ( अब्राहम lincoln , जेम्स A. गारफ़ील्ड , विलियम mckinley  , and John F. Kennedy ) and one resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the first president , was inaugurated in  1789 बाद a सर्वसम्मत vote  of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years  , but  died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman , was passed to limit the number of times an  व्यक्तिगत can be निर्वाचित  president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , was  the पहला to be निर्वाचित by मेन of सब वर्ग in 1828 बाद सबसे  laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first elected after  महिलाओं gained मतदान अधिकारों in 1920  .
History records four presidents – John Q Adams , Rutherford  B. हेज़ , बेंजामिन हैरिसन  and George W. Bush – who lost the popular vote but assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only president of Roman Catholic faith  , और the वर्तमान अध्यक्ष  , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
`` Lombardi Trophy  '' redirects  here .
For the award awarded annually to the best  कॉलेज फ़ुटबॉल lineman or linebacker , देखिए लोम्बार्डी पुरस्कार  .
The Vince Lombardi Trophy is the trophy awarded each year to the winning team of the National Football League 's  चैंपियनशिप खेल , the सुपर  Bowl .
The  ट्रॉफी is नामित in  honor of legendary NFL coach Vince Lombardi .
This is a  सूची of टेबल of the सत्यापित  oldest people in the world in ordinal rank , such as oldest person or oldest man .
In these tables , a supercentenarian is considered 'verified '  if उसके or उसके अर्जी रै महरूम validated by an अंतरराष्ट्रीय देह कि specifically  deals in longevity research , such as the Gerontology Research Group ( GRG ) or Guinness World Records .
The longest unambiguously documented human lifespan is that of Jeanne  calment of फ़्रांस ( 1875–1997 ) , जो  died at age 122 years , 164 days .
She  मिले विंसेंट वैन  Gogh when she was 12 or 13 .
This led  to न्यूज मीडिया  attention in 1985 , after Calment turned 110 .
Subsequent investigation found documentation for Calment 's age ,  परे कोई उचित सवाल , in the  records of her native city , Arles , France .
More evidence of Calment 's lifespan has been produced than for any other supercentenarian ; her case  serves as an archetype in the methodology  for verifying the ages of the world 's oldest people .
The longest undisputed lifespan for male supercentenarians is that of Jiroemon Kimura , who currently lives in  जापानी  and is age as of .
Since the death of 115-year old Dina Manfredini of the United States , on 17  दिसम्बर 2012 , किमुरा , born 19 अप्रैल 1897 ,  is the oldest living person in the world whose age can be documented .
He has also been the oldest living man since the  मौत of 114-year बूढ़ा वाल्टर breuning  on 14 April 2011 .
Since the death of 115-year old Koto Okubo of Japan on 12 January 2013 , the oldest living woman  रै महरूम -year-old misao  Okawa , also from Japan , born on 5 March 1898 .
The People 's Court is an  अमरीकी arbitration-based वास्तविकता अदालत दिखाएँ , फिलहाल presided over by रिटायर्ड फ्लोरिडा राज्य सर्किट  Court Judge Marilyn Milian , in which small claims disputes are handled .
the लोगों 's अदालत  is the first court show to use binding arbitration , introducing the format into the genre in 1981 .
The system has been duplicated by most of the show 's successors in the  न्यायिक विधा .
Moreover , The People 's  अदालत is the  first popular , long-running reality in the judicial genre .
It was  preceded तभी by a few short-lived हकीकत in the विधा ; ये  short-lived predecessors were only loosely related to judicial proceedings , except for one : Parole ( 1959 ) took footage from real-life courtrooms holding legal proceedings .
Prior to The People 's Court   , the vast majority of TV courtroom shows used actors , and recreated or fictional cases ( as did radio before that ) .
Among examples  of ये प्रकार of अदालत shows शामिल प्रसिद्ध  Jury Trials and Your Witness .
The People 's Court has had two  चिहृ  lives .
The show 's first  जीवन थी presided over solely  by former Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Joseph Wapner .
His tenure lasted from the show 's debut on September 14 , 1981 , until May 21 , 1993 , when  the दिखाएँ थी रद्द  due to low ratings .
इस बाएँ the दिखाएँ  with a total of 2,484 1⁄2-hour episodes and 12 seasons .
The show was taped in Los Angeles  दौरान  its first life .
After  होने रद्द  , reruns aired until September 9 , 1994 .
On  सितंबर 8 , 1997 ,  after being out of production for four years , The People 's Court was revived for a second life in first-run syndication as a 60-minute program .
Former lawyer and Mayor of New York Ed Koch was chosen as arbiter ,  जिससे he कायम लिये 2 सीज़न इससे the 1997–98  season through the 1998–99 season ( the present life 's 2nd season and overall show 's 14th ) .
By the 1999–00 season , husband of Judith Sheindlin ( who presides over Judge Judy ) and former New York State   Supreme Court Judge Jerry Sheindlin succeeded Koch .
Sheindlin lasted one and a half seasons as he was replaced  towards the समाप्त of the  2000–01 season ( present life 's 4th season and overall show 's 17th ) .
Beginning in spring 2001 , Florida judge Marilyn Milian took over  the लोगों 's अदालत और रै presided  over the show ever since .
Once Milian completes the 2012–13  ऋतु , वो होगा have परोसा as longest  arbiter over the series with 12 and a half seasons .
As of the  उपस्थित , however  , her years on the program tie Wapner at 12 seasons .
In the 2009-10 television season , The People 's Courts 2nd/present life outlasted its first when it reached  13 सीज़न  .
While the show taped in New York City for the first 15 seasons of its second life , it now  टेपों in stamford , कनेक्टिकट as of the 2012-13 ऋतु  .
On September 3 , 2012 , The  लोगों 's अदालत 's 2nd/present  life entered its 16th season ( 28th overall season ) .
With 28 total seasons , The People 's Court ranks as the 2nd  longest-running courtroom कार्यक्रम पीछे the जारी तलाक  Court at 33 seasons ( from its 3 combined lives ) .
Utah ( or ) ( Arapaho : Wo'tééneihí '  ) is  a state in the Western United States .
It became the 45th  राज्य admitted  to the Union on January 4 , 1896 .
Utah is  the 13th-largest , the 34th-most populous  , and the 10th-least-densely populated of the 50 United States .
Approximately 80 % of Utah 's 2,817,222 people live along the Wasatch Front , centering on Salt Lake City , leaving vast expanses of the state nearly uninhabited and  बनाना the जनसांख्यिकी the छठे सबसे urbanized in the u.S. यूटा  is bordered by Colorado on the east , Wyoming on the northeast , Idaho on the north , Arizona on the south , and Nevada on the west .
it भी छू  a corner of New Mexico on the southeast .
Utah is the most  religiously समरूप राज्य  in the Union .
Approximately 63 % of Utahns are reported to be members of The Church of Jesus Christ of  latter-day संतो or lds ( mormons ) , जिससे  greatly influences Utah culture and daily life .
The world headquarters of The Church  of यीशु मसीह of latter-day संतो (  LDS Church ) is located in Utah 's state capital .
The state is a center of transportation , education , information  प्रौद्योगिकी और शोध , सरकारी  services , mining , and a major tourist destination for outdoor recreation .
According to the U.S.  जनसांख्यिकी ब्यूरो 's जनसांख्यिकी estimates  , Utah is the fifth fastest-growing state in the United States as of 2012 .
St. George , was the fastest–growing  महानगर क्षेत्रफल in  the United States from 2000 to 2005 .
A 2012 Gallup national survey  मिला यूटा overall to be the `` बेहतरीन राज्य to सजीव in ''  based on 13 forward-looking measurements including various economic , lifestyle , and health-related outlook metrics .
Coldwater is a small town in Tate  काउंटी , मिसिसिपी  .
It is in the  मेम्फिस महानगर  Area .
The population was 1,674 at the  2000 जनसांख्यिकी .
The hard palate is a thin horizontal bony plate of the skull  , स्तिथ in the छत of  the mouth .
It spans the arch formed by  the अपर  teeth .
It is formed  by the palatine  process of the maxilla and horizontal plate of palatine bone .
It forms a partition between the nasal  passages और the  mouth .
Also on the anterior portion of the roof of the hard palate is the Rugae which are  the irregular ridges in the श्लेष्मक झिल्ली कि  help facilitate the movement of food backwards towards the pharynx .
This partition is continued deeper  into the मुँह by a मांसल  extension called the soft palate .
Complete  नियत of scrolls  , constituting the entire Tanakh .
The  tanakh ( , or ; भी tenakh ,  Tenak , Tanach ) is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible .
The Tanakh is also known as the Masoretic  टेक्स्ट or the miqra  .
the नाम is an एक्रोनिम formed इससे the आरंभिक यहूदी अक्षर of  the Masoretic Text 's three traditional subdivisions : The Torah ( `` Teaching '' , also known as the Five Books of Moses ) , Nevi'im ( `` Prophets '' ) and Ketuvim ( `` Writings '' ) —hence TaNaKh .
The name `` Miqra ''  ( מקרא ) , अर्थ `` कि जिससे  is read '' , is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh .
The books of the Tanakh were  relayed साथ an accompanying मौखिक परंपरा passed on by प्रत्येक  generation , called the Oral Torah .
Sobriety checkpoint  in जर्मनी
Driving under the influence ( DUI ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI ) , drunken driving , drunk driving , drink driving , operating under the influence , drinking and driving , or impaired driving is  the अपराधों of ड्राइविंग a मोटर गाडी साथ रक्त स्तर of दारू in excess of a विधिक सीमा ( ``  Blood Alcohol Content '' , or `` BAC '' ) .
Similar regulations cover driving or operating certain types of machinery while affected by drinking alcohol or  लेने अन्य दवाएँ  , including , but not limited to prescription drugs .
This is a criminal offense  in सबसे राष्ट्र  .
Convictions do not necessarily involve actual driving of the  गाडी  .
In most jurisdictions a measurement such as a  रक्त दारू सामग्री ( bac ) in excess of a विशिष्ट दहलीज स्तर , ऐसे as 0.05 % or 0.08 % defines  the offense , with no need to prove impairment or being under the influence of alcohol .
In some  jurisdictions , वहीँ is an क्रोधित श्रेणी  of the offense at a higher level e.g . 0.12 % .
In most countries , anyone who is convicted of injuring or killing  किसी जबकि अंतर्गत the influence of दारू or दवाएँ  can be heavily fined , as in France , in addition to being given a lengthy prison sentence .
Some jobs have their own rules and BAC limits , for example commercial pilot , and the Federal Railroad  प्रशासन in the संयुक्त राज्य रै a 0.04  % limit for train crew .
Some jurisdictions have multiple levels of BAC ; for  उदाहरण , the राज्य of कैलिफ़ोर्निया रै a 0.08 % bac  limit , which is lowered to 0.04 % if the operator holds a commercial driver 's license .
The California BAC  सीमा is 0.01 % लिये those younger than 21  years of age and those on probation for a previous DUI conviction .
Some large corporations have their own rules ; Union Pacific Railroad has their own BAC limit of 0.02 % that , if  violated दौरान a यादृच्छिक परीक्षण or a for-cause परीक्षण — लिये उदाहरण , बाद a ट्रैफ़िक दुर्घटना  — can result in termination of employment with no chance of future re-hire .
Many states in the U.S. and provinces in Canada  have अपनाया सच्चाई in sentencing कानून कि enforce  strict guidelines on sentencing , differing from previous practice where prison time was reduced or suspended after sentencing had been issued .
Some  jurisdictions have न्यायिक  guidelines requiring a mandatory minimum sentence .
Penalties for DUI charges range from expensive fees  to forfetiruree of अपना  license plates and in some serious circumstances , your vehicle .
A drunk driving  सिम्युलेटर in  Montréal , Canada
The specific criminal offense may be called , depending on the jurisdiction , driving under the influence [ of  दारू or अन्य दवाएँ ] ( dui ) , ड्राइविंग अंतर्गत तीव्र influence (  DUII ) , driving while intoxicated ( DWI ) , operating under the influence ( OUI ) operating while intoxicated ( OWI ) , operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated ( OMVI ) , driving under the combined influence of alcohol and/or other drugs , driving under the influence per se or drunk in charge [ of a vehicle ] .
Many such laws apply also to motorcycling , boating , piloting aircraft , use of motile farm equipment such as tractors  और combines , सवारी घोड़े or ड्राइविंग a horse-drawn  vehicle , or bicycling , possibly with different BAC level than driving .
In some jurisdictions there are  पृथक  charges depending on the vehicle used , such as BWI ( bicycling while intoxicated ) , which may carry a lighter sentence .
In the United States ,  लोकल विधि प्रवर्तन एजेंसियों बना 1,467,300 रखवाले देशभर लिये ड्राइविंग  under the influence of alcohol in 1996 , compared to 1.9 million such arrests during the peak year in 1983 .
In 1997 an estimated  513,200 dwi  offenders were in prison or jail , down from 593,000 in 1990 and up from 270,100 in 1986 .
Officers from US Customs and Border  सुरक्षा  boarding a ship
Law  प्रवर्तन in the संयुक्त राज्य  is one of three major components of the criminal justice system of the United States , along with courts and corrections .
हालांकि वहीँ exists an अंतर्निहित interrelatedness between  the different groups that make up the criminal justice system based on their crime deterrence purpose , each component operates independently from one another .
However , the judiciary is vested with the power to make  विधिक determinations regarding the conduct  of the other two components .
Apart from maintaining order and service functions , the purpose of policing is the investigation of  suspected दण्ड कार्यकलाप और the referral  of the results of investigations and of suspected criminals to the courts .
Law enforcement  , to varying डिग्री at अलग स्तर of सरकारी और in अलग एजेंसियों , is भी commonly  charged with the responsibilities of deterring criminal activity and of preventing the successful commission of crimes in progress ; the service and enforcement of warrants , writs and other orders of the courts .
Law  प्रवर्तन एजेंसियों हैं भी शामिल in providing पहला जवाब to emergencies और अन्य खतरे to पब्लिक सुरक्षा ; the सुरक्षा of  certain public facilities and infrastructure ; the maintenance of public order ; the protection of public officials ; and the operation of some correctional facilities ( usually at the local level ) .
Elmer Figueroa Arce ( born June 28 , 1968 ) , best known under the stage name Chayanne , is a Puerto  rican  Latin pop singer and actor .
As a  सोलो कलाकार , chayanne रै  released 21 solo albums and sold over 15 million albums worldwide .
`` World War Hulk '' is a  कॉमिक किताब क्रॉसओवर कथानक कि भागा through  a self titled limited series and various other titles published by Marvel Comics in 2007 , featuring the Hulk .
The series consists of five main issues titled World War Hulk , with Greg Pak as writer and John Romita , Jr. as penciller , and three other limited series  : संसार युद्ध हल्क : सामने लकीर , संसार युद्ध हल्क :  Gamma Corps , and World War Hulk : X-Men .
It also ran  through अनेक अन्य  Marvel comics series .
The plot is the culmination of a   series of events that began with the Hulk being tricked into space by the Illuminati and a life model decoy of Nick Fury , the Hulk 's subsequent exile seen in Planet Hulk and his imminent return to Earth to seek revenge on the Illuminati .
Marion Mitchell Morrison ( born Marion Robert Morrison ; May 26 , 1907 –  जून 11 , 1979 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम जॉन  Wayne , was an American film actor , director and producer .
An Academy Award -winner , Wayne was among the top box office draws for  तीन दशकों , और थी नामित the all-time  top money-making star .
An enduring American icon , he epitomized rugged masculinity and is famous  लिये उसके demeanor , सहित उसके distinctive शांत  voice , walk , and height .
वेन थी born in winterset , आयोवा लकिन उसके  family relocated to the greater Los Angeles area when he was four years old .
He found work at local film studios when he lost his football scholarship to USC as a  परिणाम of a bodysurfing  accident .
initially  working for the Fox Film Corporation , he mostly appeared in small bit parts .
His first leading role came in the widescreen epic The Big Trail ( 1930 ) , which led to leading roles   in numerous films throughout the 1930s , many of them in the western genre .
His career rose to further heights in 1939 , with John Ford 's Stagecoach making him  an तत्काल superstar  .
Wayne would go on to  स्टार in 142 तस्वीरें , primarily  typecast in Western films .
Among his best known later films are The Quiet Man ( 1952 ) , which follows him as an Irish-American boxer and his love affair with a fiery spinster played by Maureen O'Hara ; The Searchers ( 1956 ) , in which he plays a Civil War veteran who  seeks आउट उसके abducted भांजी ; रिओ ब्रावो ( 1959 ) , playing a शेरिफ साथ डीन मार्टिन ; सच्चा grit ( 1969 ) , playing a  humorous U.S . Marshal who sets out to avenge a man 's death in the role that won Wayne an Academy Award ; and The Shootist ( 1976 ) , his final screen performance in which he plays an aging gunslinger battling cancer .
वेन स्थानांतरित to नारंगी काउंटी , कैलिफ़ोर्निया  in the 1960s , and was a prominent Republican in Hollywood , supporting anti-communist positions .
He died of  पेट कर्कट  in 1979 .
In June 1999 , the American Film Institute named Wayne 13th  among the महानतम पुरूष  Screen Legends of All Time .
Galileo  गैलिली ( ; 15 फ़रवरी 1564  – 8 January 1642 ) , was an Italian physicist , mathematician , astronomer , and philosopher who played a major role in the Scientific Revolution .
His achievements include  सुधार to the दूरदर्शी  and consequent astronomical observations and support for Copernicanism .
Galileo has been called the  `` पिता of आधुनिक observational खगोलशास्त्र `` , the ``  father of modern physics `` , the `` father of science '' , and `` the Father of Modern Science '' .
His contributions to observational astronomy include the telescopic confirmation of the phases of Venus , the discovery of the four largest satellites of Jupiter ( named the Galilean moons in his honour ) , and the  अवलोकन और विश्लेषण of sunspots  .
Galileo also worked in applied science and  प्रौद्योगिकी , inventing an improved सैन्य कम्पास  and other instruments .
Galileo 's championing of heliocentrism was controversial within his lifetime , when most  subscribed to either geocentrism or the  Tychonic system .
He met with opposition from astronomers , who doubted  heliocentrism due to the अनुपस्थिति of  an observed stellar parallax .
The matter was  investigated by the रोमन  Inquisition in 1615 , and they concluded that it could be supported as only a possibility , not an established fact .
Galileo later defended  उसके दृश्य in संवाद concerning the दो मुख्य संसार प्रणालियों , जिससे appeared  to attack Pope Urban VIII and thus alienated him and the Jesuits , who had both supported Galileo up until this point .
He was tried by the Inquisition , found `` vehemently suspect of heresy '' , forced to recant , and spent the  बाकी of उसके जीवन अंतर्गत हाउस  arrest .
It was while Galileo was under house  गिरफ़्तार कि he लिखा एक of उसके finest  works , Two New Sciences , in which he summarised the work he had done some forty years earlier , on the two sciences now called kinematics and strength of materials .
55 '' lg oled  TV showcased at CES 2012
Prototype OLED lighting panel  विकसित by  Lumiotec
demonstration  of a flexible OLED device
An OLED ( organic light-emitting diode ) is a light-emitting diode (  led ) in जिससे the emissive electroluminescent  layer is a film of organic compound which emits light in response to an electric current .
This layer of organic  सेमीकंडक्टर is situated  between two electrodes .
Generally , at least  एक of ये  electrodes is transparent .
OLEDs are used to create digital displays in devices such as television screens , computer monitors , portable systems  ऐसे as मोबाईल फोन ,  handheld games consoles and PDAs .
A  प्रमुख क्षेत्रफल of शोध is the विकास  of white OLED devices for use in solid-state lighting applications .
There are two main families of OLEDs : those based on  छोटी अणुओं और those employing  polymers .
Adding mobile ions to an OLED creates  a light-emitting electrochemical  cell or LEC , which has a slightly different mode of operation .
OLED displays can use either  passive-matrix ( pmoled  ) or active-matrix addressing schemes .
Active-matrix OLEDs ( AMOLED ) require a thin-film  ट्रांजिस्टर backplane to स्विच प्रत्येक व्यक्तिगत पिक्सेल on or बंद , लकिन  allow for higher resolution and larger display sizes .
An OLED display  works बगैर  a backlight .
Thus , it can display deep black levels and can be  thinner और हल्का  than a liquid crystal display ( LCD ) .
In low ambient light conditions such as a dark room an OLED screen can achieve a higher contrast ratio  than an एलसीडी , whether the  LCD uses cold cathode fluorescent lamps or LED backlight .
A carton and a glass of eggnog from Montreal , Canada , showing its French facade ( English reverse ) and the French  पद लेत de poule ( वस्तुतः ,  `` hen 's milk '' )
Eggnog , or egg nog , is  a sweetened  dairy -based beverage traditionally made with milk and/or cream , sugar , and whipped eggs ( which gives it a frothy texture ) .
Brandy , rum ,  व्हिस्की , bourbon , वोदका , or a संयोजन of liquors  are often added .
The finished serving is often garnished  साथ a sprinkling of मैदान  cinnamon or nutmeg .
It was also known  as the अंडा मिल्क  punch .
Eggnog is a popular drink throughout the United States and Canada , and is usually  संबद्ध  with Christmas .
Eggnog  may be added as a flavoring  to food or drinks such as coffee and tea .
Eggnog as a custard can  भी be प्रयुक्त as  an ice cream base .
A pasty ( , ) , ( sometimes known in Britain as a  cornish pasty , और in the संयुक्त राज्य as a pastie or अंग्रेजों  pasty ) is a baked pastry , a traditional variety of which is particularly associated with Cornwall , the westernmost county in England .
It is made by placing uncooked filling typically of meat and vegetables , without meat in  शाकाहारी  versions , on a flat pastry circle and folding it to wrap the filling , crimping the edge to form a seal .
After baking , the result is a raised  semicircular comestible  .
The traditional Cornish pasty , which has Protected Geographical Indication ( PGI ) status in Europe , is  भर साथ बीफ , sliced or diced  potato , swede ( also known as a yellow turnip or rutabaga – referred to in Cornwall as turnip ) and onion , seasoned with salt and pepper , and is baked .
Today , the pasty is  the खाना सबसे संबद्ध साथ कॉर्नवॉल , it is regarded as the  national dish , and it accounts for 6 % of the Cornish food economy .
Pasties with many different fillings are made ; some shops specialise in selling all  sorts of pasties  .
The origins of the pasty are  unclear , हालांकि वहीँ हैं अनेक  references to them throughout historical documents and fiction .
The pasty is now popular world-wide due to the spread of  cornish खनिक , और विसंगतियाँ can  be found in Australia , the United States , Mexico and elsewhere .
The ( ortho- ) sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) is one of three major parts of the autonomic  बेचैन प्रणाली : the अन्य होने the enteric और parasympathetic  systems .
Its general action is to  mobilize the  body 's nervous system fight-or-flight response .
It is , however , constantly active at a  मौलिक स्तर to  maintain homeostasis .
Secure Digital or ( SD ) is a non-volatile memory card format for use in portable devices , such as mobile  फोन , डिजिटल कैमरे , gps नेविगेशन  devices , and tablet computers .
The Secure Digital standard is  कायम by the sd  Card Association ( SDA ) .
SD technologies have been implemented in more than 400 brands across  दर्जनों of उत्पाद श्रेणी और अधिक  than 8,000 models .
The Secure  डिजिटल स्वरूप शामिल चार कार्ड परिवारों उपलब्धियाँ  in three different form factors .
The four families are the original Standard-Capacity (  sdsc ) , the high-capacity ( sdhc ) , the extended-capacity ( sdxc  ) , and the SDIO , which combines input/output functions with data storage .
The three form factors are the original  आकार , the `` मिनी '' आकार , और  the `` micro '' size ( see illustration ) .
There are many  combinations  of form factors and device families .
Electrically passive adapters allow the use of a  छोटी कार्ड in a मेजबान यंत्र निर्मित  to hold a larger card .
Host devices that comply with newer versions of the specification provide backward compatibility and accept older SD cards , but this article  explains अनेक कारकों कि can  prevent the use of a newer SD card:
A newer card may  प्रस्ताव वृहद क्षमता than the मेजबान यंत्र  can handle .
A newer card may  उपयोग a संचिका प्रणाली the  host device can not navigate .
Use of an SDIO card requires the  मेजबान यंत्र  be designed for the input/output functions the card provides .
The  संगठन of the कार्ड थी बदला  starting with the SDHC family .
Some vendors produced SDSC  ताश ऊपर 1 gb पहले the sda  had standardized a method of doing so .
The SDA uses several trademarked logos to enforce compliance with  इसके विशेषताएँ और assure  users of compatibility .
The  following is a  List of critics of the New Deal .
डेनियल लॉरेंस व्हिटनी  ( born February 17 , 1963 ) best known by his stage name and character Larry the Cable Guy , is an American stand-up comedian , actor , country music artist , voice actor , and former radio personality .
He was one of the members of the Blue Collar Comedy Tour , a comedy troupe which  शामिल विधेयक engvall , रॉन श्वेत  , and Jeff Foxworthy ( with whom he has starred on Blue Collar TV ) .
Whitney has  released सात कॉमेडी एल्बम , of जिससे तीन  have been certified gold by the RIAA for shipments of 500,000 copies .
In addition , he has starred in three Blue Collar Comedy Tour-related movies ,  as खूब as in the films लैरी the केबल guy : स्वास्थ्य  Inspector , Delta Farce , and Witless Protection , as well as voicing Mater in the Cars franchise .
व्हिटनी 's catchphrase : ``  Git-R-Done ! '' is also the title of his book .
On January 26 , 2010 , the TV channel History announced that it was ordering a series starring Whitney called  तभी in अमेरिका साथ लैरी the केबल guy , in जिससे he होता explore the देश और immerse  himself in different lifestyles , jobs , and hobbies .
The first  एपीसोड of the श्रेणी  aired on February 8 , 2011 .
Vitamin D is a group of fat-soluble secosteroids responsible for intestinal  अवशोषण  of calcium and phosphate .
In humans , the most important  सम्बन्धित यौगिकों of विटामिन d हैं विटामिन  D2 and vitamin D3 .
Cholecalciferol ( vitamin D3 ) and  ergocalciferol ( विटामिन d2 ) हैं अद्वितीय as वे constitute  what we know as vitamin D and can be ingested from the diet and/or supplements .
The body can also synthesize vitamin D  ( इससे कोलेस्ट्रॉल ) जब  sun exposure is adequate ( hence its nickname , the `` sunshine vitamin '' ) .
Although vitamin D is commonly called a vitamin , it is not actually an essential dietary vitamin in the strict sense , as it can be synthesized in  पर्याप्त amounts  by most mammals exposed to sunlight .
( Cats and dogs can not synthesize vitamin D efficiently and must receive it  in उनके आहार . )
An organic chemical compound ( or related set of compounds ) is only  scientifically पुकारा a विटामिन जब it can नहीं be synthesized in  sufficient quantities by an organism , and must be obtained from their diet .
However  , as साथ अन्य यौगिकों commonly पुकारा विटामिन , विटामिन d  was discovered in an effort to find the dietary substance that was lacking in a disease , namely , rickets , the childhood form of osteomalacia .
Additionally , like other compounds called vitamins , in the developed  संसार  vitamin D is added to staple foods , such as milk , to avoid disease due to deficiency .
Measures of serum levels reflect endogenous synthesis from exposure to sunlight as well as intake from the diet , and  it is believed कि संश्लेषण may योगदान generally  to the maintenance of adequate serum concentrations .
The evidence indicates that the synthesis of vitamin D from sun exposure works in a  प्रतिक्रिया लूप कि रोकता toxicity लकिन , क्युकी of अनिश्चितता परिचय the कर्कट रिस्क इससे धूप , no सुझाव  are issued by the Institute of Medicine , USA , for the amount of sun exposure required to meet vitamin D requirements .
Accordingly ,  the dietary सन्दर्भ intakes  for vitamin D assume that no synthesis occurs and that all of a person 's vitamin D is from their diet , although that will rarely occur in practice .
In the liver vitamin D is converted to calcidiol , which is also known as calcifediol ( INN ) , 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , or 25-hydroxyvitamin D—abbreviated 25 ( OH ) D ; and which is the specific vitamin  d metabolite कि is measured in सीरम to determine a व्यक्ति  's vitamin D status .
Part of the calcidiol is converted by the kidneys to calcitriol , the biologically active form of vitamin D. Calcitriol  circulates as a हार्मोन in the रक्त  , regulating the concentration of calcium and phosphate in the bloodstream and promoting the healthy growth and remodeling of bone .
Calcidiol is also converted to calcitriol outside of the kidneys for  अन्य उद्देश्य , ऐसे as the अप्रसार , differentiation और  apoptosis of cells ; calcitriol also affects neuromuscular function and inflammation .
Beyond its use to  prevent osteomalacia  or rickets , the evidence for other health effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general population is inconsistent .
The best evidence  of लाभ  is for bone health and a decrease in mortality in elderly women .
Standard form  of the  periodic table .
The colors represent  अलग श्रेणी of  elements explained below .
The   periodic table is a tabular display of the chemical elements , organized on the basis of their atomic numbers , electron configurations , and recurring chemical properties .
तत्व हैं प्रस्तुत  in order of increasing atomic number ( number of protons ) .
The standard form of table comprises an  18 × 7 ग्रिड or  main body of elements , positioned above a smaller double row of elements .
The table can also be deconstructed into four rectangular blocks : the s-block to the left , the p-block to the right , the  d-block in the मध्य , और the f-block  below that .
The rows of the table are called periods ; the columns of the s- ,  d- , और p-blocks हैं पुकारा समूह  , with some of these having names such as the halogens or the noble gases .
Since , by definition , a periodic table incorporates recurring trends , any such table can be used to derive relationships between the properties  of the तत्व और भविष्यवाणी the गुण  of new , yet to be discovered or synthesized , elements .
As a  परिणाम , a आवधिक table—whether in the मानक रूप or कुछ अन्य  variant—provides a useful framework for analyzing chemical behavior , and such tables are widely used in chemistry and other sciences .
Although precursors exist , Dmitri Mendeleev is  generally credited साथ the  publication , in 1869 , of the first widely recognized periodic table .
He developed his table to illustrate periodic  रुझान in the गुण  of the then-known elements .
mendeleev भी पूर्वानुमानित कुछ गुण  of then-unknown elements that would be expected to fill gaps in this table .
Most of his predictions were proved correct when the  तत्व in सवाल यहूद subsequently  discovered .
Mendeleev 's  आवधिक तालिका रै चूंकि महरूम विस्तारित और परिष्कृत साथ the डिस्कवरी  or synthesis of further new elements and the development of new theoretical models to explain chemical behavior .
सब तत्व इससे परमाणु संख्याएँ  1 ( hydrogen ) to 118 ( ununoctium ) have been discovered or synthesized .
The elements from 1 to 98 ( californium ) have been found to exist naturally , although  कुछ हैं मिला तभी in ट्रेस amounts और यहूद initially  discovered by synthesis in laboratories .
the  elements after 98 have only been synthesized in laboratories .
Production of elements beyond ununoctium is being pursued , with the question of how the periodic table may need to be modified to accommodate any such  परिवर्धन होने a पदार्थ of जारी बहस  .
Numerous synthetic  radionuclides  of naturally occurring elements have also been produced in laboratories .
Minimum wage by U.S. state and U.S. territory ( American Samoa , Guam , Puerto  रीको , वर्जिन आइलैंड्स ) , as  of Jan. 1 , 2013 .
In the United States , workers are  generally हकदार to be सशुल्क no कम than the  statutory minimum wage .
The federal government mandates a nationwide minimum wage level of $ 7.25 per hour , while some states and  municipalities have नियत न्यूनतम मजदूरी स्तर  higher than the federal level , with the highest state minimum wage being $ 9.19 per hour in Washington as of 2013 .
Among those paid by the hour in 2012 , 1.6 million were reported as earning exactly the  प्रचलित संघीय न्यूनतम  wage .
About 2.0 million were  reported as कमाई  wages below the minimum .
Together , these 3.6 million workers with wages at or below the minimum made up  4.7 प्रतिशत of सब hourly-paid मजदूर  .
A selection of Bourbons and  टेनेसी whiskeys offered at a liquor  store in Decatur , Georgia
Evan  विलियम्स bourbon  whiskey
Bourbon whiskey is a type of American  whiskey – a barrel-aged आसुत  spirit made primarily from corn .
The name of the spirit  गर्भाशयी इससे इसके ऐतिहासिक संघ साथ  an area known as Old Bourbon , around what is now Bourbon County , Kentucky ( which , in turn , was named after the French House of Bourbon royal family ) .
It has been produced since  the 18th सदी  .
While it may be  बना anywhere in  the United States , it is strongly associated with the American South in general , and Kentucky in particular .
The Mona Lisa ( La Gioconda or La Joconde ) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Italian artist  लियोनार्डो da विंची , जिससे  has been acclaimed as `` the best known , the most visited , the most written about , the most sung about , the most parodied work of art in the world . ''
The painting , thought  to be a पोर्ट्रेट of लिसा gherardini , the बीवी of francesco  del Giocondo , is in oil on a poplar panel , and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506 .
It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the property of the  फ्रेंच गणतंत्र  , on permanent display at the Musée du Louvre in Paris since 1797 .
the ambiguity of the विषय 's अभिव्यक्ति , जिससे is अक्सर वर्णित as enigmatic , the monumentality of the संयोजन  , the subtle modeling of forms and the atmospheric illusionism were novel qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work .
Robert Allen Palmer ( 19 January 1949 – 26  सितंबर 2003 ) , थी an अंग्रेज़ी singer-songwriter  and musician .
He was known for his distinctive voice and the  eclectic मिक्सर of musical शैलियाँ  on his albums , combining soul , jazz , rock , pop , reggae and blues .
He found success  दोनो in उसके  solo career and in the musical act The Power Station , and had Top 10 songs in both the UK and the US .
His iconic music videos by Terence Donovan for the hits `` Addicted to Love `` and `` Simply Irresistible `` featured  identically वेश नाचना  women with pale faces , dark eye makeup and bright red lipstick , which resembled the women in the art of Patrick Nagel , an artist popular in the 1980s .
Sharp-suited , his involvement in the music industry commenced in the 1960s , covered five decades and included a  वर्तनी साथ सिरका  Joe .
Palmer  प्राप्त a क्रमांक of पुरस्कार throughout उसके करियर , सहित दो ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance , an MTV Video Music Award , and was twice nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Male .
Computed tomography angiography ( CTA ) is a  computed टोमोग्राफी तकनीक प्रयुक्त to visualize  arterial and venous vessels throughout the body .
This ranges from arteries serving the  दिमाग to those bringing  blood to the lungs , kidneys , arms and legs .
The Champs-Élysées decorated  साथ ध्वज लिये bastille  Day
Horseman of the French Republican Guard during the 2007 military  परेड on the champs-élysées  .
Prise de la Bastille by  jean-pierre-louis-laurent  Houel
Bastille Day is the  नाम दिए in english-speaking  countries to the French National Day , which is celebrated on the 14th of July each year .
In France , it is formally called La Fête Nationale ( ; The National Celebration ) and commonly Le  quatorze  juillet ( ; the fourteenth of July ) .
It commemorates the 1790 Fête de la Fédération , held on the first anniversary of the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789 ; the anniversary of the storming of the Bastille fortress-prison was seen as a symbol of the uprising of the  आधुनिक स्वदेश , और of the reconciliation of सब the फ्रेंच अंदर the संवैधानिक  monarchy which preceded the First Republic , during the French Revolution .
festivities और आधिकारिक  ceremonies are held all over France .
The oldest and largest regular military parade in Europe is held  on the morning of 14 जुलाई , on the champs-élysées एवेन्यू in पेरिस  in front of the President of the Republic , French officials and foreign guests .
The United States of America ( USA or U.S.A. ) , commonly called the  संयुक्त राज्य ( us or u.S. ) or अमेरिका , is a संघीय  republic consisting of fifty states and a federal district .
The lower forty-eight contiguous  राज्य और the संघीय ज़िला  of Washington , D.C. are in central North America between Canada and Mexico .
The state of Alaska  is वेस्ट of कनाडा  and east of Russia across the Bering Strait , and the state of Hawaii is in the mid-North Pacific .
The  देश भी रै पाँच आबादी और नौ  unpopulated territories in the Pacific and the Caribbean .
At 3.79 million square miles ( 9.83 million km2 ) and with around 315 million people , the United States is the third- or fourth-largest country by  कुल क्षेत्रफल और the third-largest by दोनो जमीन क्षेत्रफल और जनसांख्यिकी  .
It is one of the  संसार 's सबसे ethnically  diverse and multicultural nations , the product of large-scale immigration from many countries .
The geography and climate of the U.S. is also extremely diverse , with  रेगिस्तान ,  plains , forests , and mountains that are home to a wide variety of species .
paleoindians migrated इससे एशिया to कया  is now the United States mainland around 15,000 years ago .
After 1500 , Old World diseases introduced by  europeans greatly घटाया  their populations .
यूरोपीय colonization  began around 1600 and came mostly from England .
The United States emerged from thirteen British colonies located along the  अटलांटिक seaboard  .
Disputes between Great Britain and the American colonies led to  the अमरीकी क्रान्ति  .
On July 4 , 1776 , delegates from the 13 colonies unanimously issued the Declaration of Independence , which established  the संयुक्त राज्य of  America .
The  अमरीकी क्रांतिकारी युद्ध , जिससे ended साथ the मान्यता  of independence of the United States from the Kingdom of Great Britain , was the first successful war of independence against a European colonial empire .
The current Constitution was adopted on September 17 , 1787 ;  twenty-seven amendments have चूंकि महरूम  added to the Constitution .
The first ten amendments , collectively named the Bill of Rights ,  यहूद ratified in 1791 और गारंटी  many fundamental civil rights and freedoms .
Driven by the doctrine of manifest destiny , the United States embarked on a vigorous expansion across North America  throughout  the 19th century .
This  शामिल displacing देशी जनजातियों  , acquiring new territories , and gradually admitting new states .
The American Civil War ended  legalized गुलामी in  the United States .
By the end of the nineteenth century , the United States  विस्तारित into the प्रशांत समंदर  , and its economy was the world 's largest .
The  spanish–american युद्ध और पुष्टि  the country 's status as a global military power .
The United States emerged from as a global superpower , the first  देश साथ नाभिकीय हथियार , और a स्थाई  member of the United Nations Security Council .
The end of the Cold War and the dissolution of  the सोवियत संघ बाएँ the  United States as the sole superpower .
The United States is a developed country and has the world 's largest  नेशनल अर्थव्यवस्था  , with an estimated 2012 GDP of $ 15.6 trillion 19 % of global GDP at purchasing-power parity , as of 2011 .
The per capita GDP of the U.S. was the world 's sixth-highest as of 2010  , हालांकि अमेरिका 's माल असमानता थी भी क्रमित  highest among OECD countries by the World Bank .
The economy is  fueled by an प्रचुरता of प्राकृतिक संसाधन , a well-developed  infrastructure , and high productivity ; and while its economy is considered post-industrial it continues to be one of the world 's largest manufacturers .
The country accounts for 39 % of global military spending , and  is a अग्रणी आर्थिक , राजनैतिक , और सांस्कृतिक  force in the world , as well as a leader in scientific research and technological innovation .
The NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championship is a single-elimination  टूर्नामेंट निभाई प्रत्येक वसन्त in the संयुक्त राज्य , फिलहाल  featuring 68 college basketball teams , to determine the national championship of the major college basketball teams .
The tournament , organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association ( NCAA ) , was  निर्मित दौरान 1939 by the नेशनल  Association of Basketball Coaches , and was the idea of Ohio State University coach Harold Olsen .
Played mostly during  कूच , it is ज्ञात informally as कूच दीवानगी  or the Big Dance , and has become one of the most famous annual sporting events in the United States .
The NCAA has credited Bob Walsh of the Seattle Organizing Committee for starting the March Madness  जश्न दौरान  1984 .
The tournament teams include champions from 31 Division I conferences (  जिससे प्राप्त  automatic bids ) , and 37 teams which are awarded at-large berths .
These `` at-large '' teams are chosen by an NCAA  चयन कमेटी ,  as detailed below .
The 64 teams are divided into four regions and organized into a single elimination `` bracket '' ,  जिससे predetermines , जब a टोली विन्स a खेल  , which team it will face next .
Each team is `` seeded ''  , or क्रमित , भीतर इसके प्रदेश  .
After an initial four games between eight lower-ranked teams , the tournament occurs during the course of three weekends , at pre-selected neutral  साइट around  the United States .
Lower-ranked  टीमों हैं  placed in the bracket against higher ranked teams .
Each weekend eliminates three-fourths of the teams , from a round of 64 , to a `` Sweet Sixteen '' , and for the last weekend of the Tournament a Final Four ; the Final Four is usually  निभाई दौरान the  first weekend of April .
These four teams , one from each region  , तब compete in एक स्थान लिये the  national championship .
The tournament has been at least partially televised since 1969  .
Presently , the games are reported by  सीबीएस , tbs , टीएनटी , और trutv by the trade-name  NCAA March Madness .
Since 2011 , all games are  उपलब्धियाँ लिये देखने देशभर  .
As  टेलीविज़न कवरेज रै grown  , so too has the tournament 's popularity .
Presently , millions  of अमेरिकी `` भरण आउट  a bracket '' , predicting winners of all 67 games .
With 11 national titles , UCLA has  the रिकार्ड  for the most NCAA Men 's Division I Basketball Championships ; John Wooden coached UCLA to 10 of its 11 titles .
The University of Kentucky is second ,  साथ 8 नेशनल शीर्षक , जबकि इंडियाना विश्वविद्यालयों और the विश्वविद्यालयों of उत्तर  Carolina are tied for third with 5 national titles .
Duke  विश्वविद्यालयों बाँधने पांचवां  with 4 national titles .
A sample  of सिंथेटिक  motor oil
Synthetic oil is a lubricant consisting of  रासायनिक यौगिकों कि हैं artificially  made ( synthesized ) .
Synthetic lubricants can be manufactured using chemically modified petroleum  components बल्कि than पूरे  crude oil , but can also be synthesized from other raw materials .
Synthetic oil is used as a substitute for lubricant refined from petroleum when operating in extremes of  तापमान , क्युकी , in सामान्य , it provides श्रेष्ठ mechanical और रासायनिक  properties than those found in traditional mineral oils .
Aircraft jet engines , for example , require the use of synthetic oils ,  whereas वायुयान  piston engines do not .
Jackass is an  अमरीकी वास्तविकता श्रेणी , originally  shown on MTV from 2000 to 2002 , featuring people performing various dangerous , crude self-injuring stunts and pranks .
The show served as a launchpad for the television and acting  करियर of bam margera , steve-o , और भी जॉनी knoxville  , who previously had only a few minor acting roles .
Since 2002 , three Jackass films have been produced and released by MTV corporate sibling Paramount  तस्वीरें , continuing the मताधिकार  after its run on television .
The show sparked  अनेक spin-offs सहित  Viva La Bam , Wildboyz , Homewrecker , Dr. Steve-O and Blastazoid .
The show placed # 68 on  entertainment साप्ताहिक ``  New TV Classics '' list .
roseanne cherrie barr ( born नवम्बर  3 , 1952 ) is an American actress , comedienne , writer , television producer , director , and 2012 presidential nominee of the California -based Peace and Freedom Party .
Barr began her career in stand-up comedy at clubs  पहले gaining  fame for her role in the sitcom Roseanne .
The  दिखाएँ थी a hit और  lasted nine seasons , from 1988 to 1997 .
She won both an Emmy and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress for her work on the  दिखाएँ  .
Barr had crafted a `` fierce working-class domestic goddess '' persona in the eight years preceding her sitcom and wanted to do a realistic  दिखाएँ परिचय a दमदार माँ जो थी नहीं  a victim of patriarchal consumerism .
The granddaughter of  आप्रवासियों इससे यूरोपीय और रूस , barr थी the oldest of चार children  in a working-class Jewish Salt Lake City family ; she was also active in the LDS Church .
In 1974 , she married Bill Pentland , with whom  वो था तीन children , पहले divorcing in 1990 और marrying  comedian Tom Arnold for four years .
Controversy arose when she sang `` The Star-Spangled Banner `` off-key at a 1990  nationally aired बेसबॉल खेल , followed by grabbing  her crotch and spitting .
After her sitcom ended , she launched her own talk show  , the roseanne दिखाएँ , जिससे aired  from 1998 to 2000 .
In 2005 , she  लौटे  to stand-up comedy with a world tour .
In 2011 , she starred in an unscripted TV  दिखाएँ , roseanne 's nuts , कि lasted इससे जुलाई to सितंबर  of that year , about her life on a Hawaiian farm .
In early 2012 , Barr announced her  उम्मीदवारी लिये the अध्यक्षीय नामांकन  of the Green Party .
Barr lost the nomination to  jill स्टीन  .
She then sought the  अध्यक्षीय नामांकन of the सलाम और स्वतंत्रता पार्टी  , which she won on August 4 , 2012 .
Barr received 61,971 votes in the general election ,  रखकर छठे  overall .
Francesco Albani 's 17th century Baptism of Christ is a typical depiction with the sky  खोलने और the पावन स्पिरिट descending as  a dove .
The baptism of  यीशु marks the शुरूआत  of his public ministry .
This event is recorded in the canonical gospels of Matthew , Mark  और  Luke .
John 's gospel does not  describe यीशु ' बपतिस्मा , लकिन जॉन  the Baptist does testify of the other things in .
In the New Testament , John the Baptist preached the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins ( ) , and declared himself a forerunner of he that  होता baptize `` साथ the पावन भुत और साथ आग '' ( )  .
In so doing he was preparing  the रास्ता लिये यीशु  .
Jesus  आए to the जॉर्डन  River where he was baptized by John .
The baptismal scene includes the heavens  खोलने , a dove-like descent of the पावन स्पिरिट  , and a voice from heaven saying , `` This is my beloved Son , in whom I am well pleased . ''
Most modern scholars view the fact  कि यीशु थी baptized  by John as an historical event to which a high degree of certainty can be assigned .
Along with the crucifixion of Jesus most scholars view it as one of the two historically certain facts  परिचय उसे , और प्रायः उपयोग it as the starting अंक  for the study of the historical Jesus .
The baptism is one of the five major milestones in the  इन्जील कथा of the जीवन of यीशु , the अन्य होने  the Transfiguration , Crucifixion , Resurrection , and Ascension .
Most Christian denominations view the baptism of Jesus as an important event  और a आधार लिये the  Christian rite of baptism ( see also ) .
In Eastern Christianity , Jesus '  बपतिस्मा is  commemorated on 6 January , the feast of Epiphany .
In the Roman Catholic Church , the Anglican Communion , the Lutheran Churches and some other Western denominations , it is  recalled on a दिन भीतर the following सप्ताह , the feast of the बपतिस्मा of the  Lord .
In Roman Catholicism , the baptism of Jesus is one of the Luminous Mysteries  sometimes added to the rosary  .
It is a Trinitarian feast in the  पूर्वी परंपरागत  Churches .
Methylcobalamin ( shown ) is a form of  विटामिन b12  .
physically it resembles the अन्य  forms of vitamin B12 , occurring as dark red crystals that freely form cherry-colored transparent solutions in water .
Vitamin B12 , vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12 , also called cobalamin , is a water-soluble vitamin with a key  भूमिका in the सामान्य कामकाज of the  brain and nervous system , and for the formation of blood .
It is one of the eight  b विटामिन  .
It is normally involved in the metabolism of every cell of  the इंसान देह , विशेषकर affecting डीएनए संश्लेषण और विनियमन , लकिन भी वसीय एसिड  synthesis and energy production .
Neither fungi , plants ,  nor पशु  are capable of producing vitamin B12 .
Only bacteria and archaea have the enzymes required for its synthesis ,  हालांकि अनेक भोजन हैं  a natural source of B12 because of bacterial symbiosis .
The vitamin is the largest and most structurally complicated vitamin and  can be उत्पादित industrially  only through bacterial fermentation-synthesis .
Vitamin B12 consists of a class of chemically  सम्बन्धित यौगिकों ( vitamers ) , सब  of which have vitamin activity .
It  contains the biochemically विरल  element cobalt .
Biosynthesis of the basic structure of the vitamin is accomplished only by bacteria ( which usually produce hydroxocobalamin ) , but conversion between different forms of the  विटामिन can be संपन्नता in the इंसान देह  .
A common semi-synthetic  रूप of the विटामिन , cyanocobalamin , करता नहीं occur in प्रकृति  , but is produced from bacterial hydroxocobalamin and then used in many pharmaceuticals and supplements , and as a food additive , because of its stability and lower production cost .
In the body it is converted to the human physiological forms methylcobalamin and  adenosylcobalamin , leaving पीछे the  cyanide , albeit in minimal concentration .
More recently , hydroxocobalamin , methylcobalamin , and  adenosylcobalamin can be मिला in अधिक महंगी pharmacological  products and food supplements .
The extra utility of  ये is फिलहाल  debated .
विटामिन b12 थी खोजा इससे इसके संबंध to the  disease pernicious anemia , which is an autoimmune disease in which parietal cells of the stomach responsible for secreting intrinsic factor are destroyed .
Intrinsic factor is crucial for the normal absorption of B12 , so a  कमी of मूलभूत फ़ैक्टर , as देखी in घातक रक्ताल्पता , कल्याणकारी a विटामिन  B12 deficiency .
Many other subtler kinds of vitamin B12 deficiency and their  biochemical प्रभाव have चूंकि महरूम  elucidated .
पूरा मेटल जैकेट is a 1987  war film produced , directed and co-written by Stanley Kubrick .
It is an adaptation of Gustav Hasford 's 1979 novel The Short-Timers and stars Matthew Modine , Vincent  d'onofrio , R. ली ermey , arliss हावर्ड ,  and Adam Baldwin .
The film follows a platoon of U.S. Marines through  उनके प्रशिक्षण और the अनुभवों of  two of the platoon 's Marines in the Tet Offensive during the Vietnam War .
The film 's title refers to the full metal  जैकेट गोली प्रयुक्त by infantry  riflemen .
The film received  नाजुक acclaim  .
It  प्राप्त an अकादमी  Award nomination for Best Adapted Screenplay for Kubrick , Michael Herr and Gustav Hasford .
In  2001 , the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान  placed Full Metal Jacket at # 95 in their `` AFI 's 100 Years ... 100 Thrills `` poll .
TMZ  is a हस्ती न्यूज जालस्थल  that debuted on November 8 , 2005 .
It was a collaboration  between एओएल और telepictures प्रोडक्शन्स , a  division of Warner Bros. , until Time Warner divested AOL in 2009 .
However , it remained affiliated  साथ एओएल न्यूज और रै the एओएल न्यूज  logo affixed in the upper right corner .
The name TMZ stands for the historic `` studio zone `` or 30-mile zone radius  इससे the चौराहे of वेस्ट बेवर्ली boulevard और उत्तर  La Cienega Boulevard in Los Angeles .
TMZ 's managing editor is Harvey Levin  , a lawyer-turned-journalist जो थी previously a विधिक विशेषज्ञ लिये  the Los Angeles television station KCBS-TV .
The site claims that it does not pay for stories or interviews ; however ,  levin रै admitted कि tmz करता  `` sometimes pay sources for leads on stories '' .
Levin has stated that ``  सबकुछ is  researched and vetted for accuracy . ''
A companion TV  श्रेणी , tmz on tv , debuted  on September 10 , 2007 .
Scream 3 is a 2000 American slasher film created by  केविन विलियमसन , निर्देशित by वेस  Craven and written by Ehren Kruger , starring Neve Campbell , Courteney Cox Arquette and David Arquette .
It was released on  फ़रवरी 4 , 2000 as the तीसरा  installment in the Scream film series .
The events of the  स्टोरी हैं नियत तीन सालो बाद those of चीख 2 और फ़ॉलो sidney प्रेस्कॉट ( कैम्पबेल ) जो रै  gone into self-imposed isolation following the events of the previous two films but is drawn to Hollywood after a new Ghostface begins killing the cast of the film within a film `` Stab 3 '' .
Scream 3 combines the  हिंसा of the slasher विधा  with comedy and `` whodunit `` mystery while satirizing the cliché of film trilogies .
Unlike the previous Scream films , there was  an increased जोर on comedic तत्व और the हिंसा  and horror was reduced in response to increased public scrutiny about violence in media following the Columbine High School massacre .
The  फिल्मी थी the concluding अध्याय of the चीख  series until it was revived with a sequel , Scream 4 , in 2011 .
Williamson provided a  five-page रूपरेखा लिये दो सिक्वेल to चीख  when auctioning his original script , hoping to entice bidders with the potential of buying a franchise .
Williamson 's commitments to other  प्रोजेक्ट meant he थी असमर्थ to develop a पूरा स्क्रिप्ट  for Scream 3 and writing duties were undertaken by Ehren Kruger who discarded much of Williamson 's notes .
Craven  और मार्को beltrami  returned to direct and score the film respectively as they had with the previous two series entries .
Production was troubled with script rewrites , with pages sometimes only ready on the day of filming , and  scheduling कठिनाइयों साथ the प्रमुख डाल  .
Scream 3 performed both financially and critically worse  than इसके preceding films , कमाई over $  161 million and with many critics claiming that the film had become what Scream originally `` spoofed `` .
Despite negative criticism the film did receive  तारीफ़ साथ reviewers कॉलिंग  it the perfect end to the Scream trilogy .
As of 2012 , the film is currently the number 3 highest-grossing slasher-film in  उत्तर अमेरिका , following चीख at क्रमांक  1 and Scream 2 at number 2 .
The film 's soundtrack was well-received , spending fourteen weeks on the Billboard 200 and  reaching a ऊँची of # 32  .
Shoulder impingement syndrome , also called painful arc syndrome , supraspinatus syndrome , swimmer 's shoulder , and thrower 's shoulder , is a clinical syndrome which occurs when the tendons of the  rotator कफ मांसपेशियां become irritated और inflamed as वे pass through  the subacromial space , the passage beneath the acromion .
This can result in pain  , कमज़ोरी और घाटा of  movement at the shoulder .
JLA was a monthly comic  किताब प्रकाशित by dc कॉमिक्स इससे  January 1997 to April 2006 featuring the Justice League .
The colonial history of the United States covers the history of European  settlements इससे the प्रारंभ of colonization of अमेरिका जबतक उनके  incorporation into the United States .
In the late 16th century , England , France , Spain and the  नीदरलैंड्स शुभारम्भ प्रमुख colonization  programs in eastern North America .
Small early attempts—such as the English Lost Colony of Roanoke —often  disappeared ; everywhere the  death rate of the first arrivals was very high .
Nevertheless  कामयाब colonies  were established .
यूरोपीय settlers आए इससे  a variety of social and religious groups .
no aristocrats  settled permanently , but a number of adventurers , soldiers , farmers , and tradesmen arrived .
Diversity was an American characteristic as the Dutch of New Netherland , the Swedes and Finns of  नई स्वीडन , the अंग्रेज़ी quakers of पेन्सिलवेनिया , the अंग्रेज़ी puritans of नई इंग्लैण्ड , the अंग्रेज़ी settlers of jamestown , और the `` worthy  poor '' of Georgia , came to the new continent and built colonies with distinctive social , religious , political and economic styles .
Occasionally one colony took control of another (  दौरान युद्धों between उनके यूरोपीय अभिभावक  ) .
Only in Nova Scotia ( now part of Canada )  किया the conquerors निकाल the पिछला  colonists .
Instead they all  जिया पक्ष  by side in peace .
There were no major civil wars among the 13 colonies , and  the दो मुख्य हथियारबंद विद्रोहों ( in वर्जिनिया in  1676 and in New York in 1689–91 ) were short-lived failures .
Wars between the French and the British—the French and Indian Wars and Father Rale 's War —were recurrent , and involved  french-support लिये wabanaki confederacy  attacks on the frontiers .
By 1760 France was defeated and  the अंग्रेजों जब्त  its colonies .
The four  पृथक regions यहूद : नई इंग्लैण्ड  , the Middle Colonies , the Chesapeake Bay Colonies ( Upper South ) and the Lower South .
Some  इतिहासकारों add a पांचवां  region , the Frontier , which was never separately organized .
By the time European settlers arrived around 1600–1650 , the majority of the  देशी अमेरिकी जीना in the पूर्वी संयुक्त राज्य था महरूम decimated by नई रोगों ,  introduced to them decades before by explorers and sailors .
See  समयरेखा of औपनिवेशिक  America for list of historical events .
Gloria Laura Vanderbilt ( born February 20 , 1924 ) is an American artist , author , actress , heiress ,  और socialite सबसे विख्यात  as an early developer of designer blue jeans .
She is a member of the prominent Vanderbilt family of New York and the mother of  सीएनएन 's एंडरसन कूपर  .
Greece ( Romanization of Greek| ) , officially the Hellenic Republic ( ' ) , is a  देश in southeast यूरोपीय  .
According to the 2011  जनसांख्यिकी , यूनानियों 's जनसांख्यिकी  is around 11 million .
Athens is the nation 's capital and largest city , its  शहरी क्षेत्रफल भी सहित  Piraeus .
Greece is strategically located at the crossroads of Europe , Asia , the Middle East , and Africa , and has land  सीमायें साथ अल्बानियाई , the गणतंत्र of  Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north , and Turkey to the northeast .
The Aegean Sea lies to the east of mainland Greece , the Ionian Sea to  the वेस्ट , और the  Mediterranean Sea to the south .
Greece has the 11th longest coastline in the world at in length , featuring a vast number of islands ( approximately 1,400 , of which 227 are inhabited ) , including Crete , the Dodecanese  , the cyclades  , and the Ionian Islands among others .
अस्सी प्रतिशत of यूनानियों consists  of mountains , of which Mount Olympus is the highest at .
Modern Greece traces its roots to the civilization of Ancient Greece , generally considered  the पालना of पश्चिमी  civilization .
As such , it is the birthplace of democracy , Western philosophy , the Olympic Games , Western literature and  historiography , राजनैतिक विज्ञान , प्रमुख वैज्ञानिक और गणितीय सिद्धान्त  , and Western drama , including both tragedy and comedy .
This legacy is partly  reflected in the सत्रह युनेस्को संसार विरासत साइट स्तिथ in यूनानियों  , ranking it 7th in Europe and 13th in the world .
The  आधुनिक यूनानी राज्य थी  established in 1830 , following the Greek War of Independence .
Greece is a  founding सदस्य of the संयुक्त राष्ट्र , रै महरूम  a member of what is now the European Union since 1981 ( and the eurozone since 2001 ) , and has been a member of NATO since 1952 .
Greece is a developed country with an advanced , high-income economy and very high standards of  जीना , सहित the संसार 's 21st उच्चतम  quality of life as of 2010 .
Greece 's economy is also the largest in the Balkans , where Greece  is an महत्वपूर्ण क्षेत्रीय  investor .
A prime meridian is a meridian , i.e . a line of longitude , at which longitude is  पारिभाषित  to be 0° .
A prime meridian and its opposite in a 360°-system , the 180th meridian  ( at 180° देशांतर ) ,  form a great circle .
इस  great circle divides the sphere , e.g . the Earth , into two hemispheres .
If one  उपयोग दिशानिर्देश of ईस्ट और वेस्ट इससे a  defined prime meridian , then they can be called Eastern Hemisphere and Western Hemisphere .
Gerardus Mercator in his Atlas Cosmographicae ( 1595 ) uses a prime meridian  कही बंद to 25°w , गुजर बस to the वेस्ट  of Santa Maria Island in the Atlantic .
His 180th meridian runs along the Strait of  anián ( बेरिंग जलसन्धि  )
A prime meridian is ultimately arbitrary , unlike an equator , which is determined by the axis of rotation—and various  प्रथाओं have महरूम प्रयुक्त or advocated in अलग regions  and throughout history .
Minka Dumont Kelly ( born Minka Dumont Dufay ; June  24 , 1980 ) is an  American actress .
She is perhaps best known for her roles  in चार्ली 's  Angels , Friday Night Lights , and The Roommate .
R.O.B . ( Robotic Operating Buddy ) , released in Japan as the , is an  accessory लिये the निन्टेंडो entertainment प्रणाली ( एनईएस )  .
It was released in July 1985 in Japan and later that year  in उत्तर  America .
It had a short product lifespan , with support for only two games which  comprised the `` रोबोट श्रेणी  '' ; Gyromite and Stack-Up .
R.O.B . was released with the intention of portraying the Nintendo Entertainment System as something novel in order to  alleviate खुदरा fears following the वीडियो खेल क्रैश  of 1983 .
R.O.B . was available in the Deluxe Set , a  विन्यास लिये the कंसोल कि शामिल , among अन्य  things , R.O.B . and Gyromite .
Stack-Up was purchased  separately और शामिल इसके  own physical game pieces .
The Walking Liberty half dollar was a silver 50-cent piece or half dollar coin  जारी by the संयुक्त  States Mint from 1916 to 1947 ; it was designed by Adolph A. Weinman .
In 1915 , the new Mint Director , Robert W. Woolley , came to believe that he was not only allowed but required by law to replace coin designs that had been  in उपयोग लिये 25 सालो  .
He therefore began the process of replacing the Barber coinage : dimes , quarters and half dollars , all bearing similar designs by long-time Mint  engraver चार्ल्स E. नाई , और पहला struck in 1892  .
Woolley had the Commission of Fine Arts conduct a  प्रतियोगिता , as a परिणाम of जिससे weinman थी  selected to design the dime and half dollar .
Weinman 's design of Liberty striding towards the Sun for the half dollar proved difficult to  पूर्ण , और राजकोष सचिव विलियम  G. McAdoo , whose department included the Mint , considered having Barber create his own design .
Mint officials were successful in getting Weinman 's  डिज़ाइन into  production , although it never struck very well , which may have been a factor in its replacement by the Franklin half dollar beginning in 1948 .
Nevertheless , art  इतिहासकार कॉर्नेलियस vermeule  considered the piece to be among the most beautiful US coins .
Since 1986 , a modification of Weinman 's obverse design has  महरूम प्रयुक्त लिये the अमरीकी  Silver Eagle .
The Toyota 4Runner is a mid-size sport utility vehicle ( SUV ) produced  by the जापानी निर्माता  Toyota and sold throughout the world from 1984 to present .
In  जापानी it थी ज्ञात  as the Toyota Hilux Surf .
The original 4Runner was a compact SUV and little more than a Toyota pickup truck with a fiberglass shell over the bed , but the model has since undergone significant independent  विकास into a क्रॉस between a कॉम्पैक्ट और a  mid-size SUV .
All 4Runners have been built at Toyota 's  tahara संयंत्र in tahara , aichi ,  Japan , or at Hino Motors ' Hamura , Japan plant , and in Brazil .
Its  mid-size क्रॉसओवर एसयूवी  counterpart is the Toyota Highlander .
This article deals with medicine as  practiced by  trained professionals from ancient times to the present .
The ancient Egyptians had a system of medicine that was very  उन्नत लिये इसके समय और बहकावे बाद चिकित्सा  traditions .
The Egyptians and Babylonians both introduced the concepts of diagnosis ,  prognosis , और चिकित्सा  examination .
The Greeks went even further  , और उन्नत  as well medical ethics .
The Hippocratic Oath , still taken by  डॉक्टर आज , थी लिखा  in Greece in the 5th century BCE .
In the  मध्यकालीन era , सर्जिकल practices  inherited from the ancient masters were improved and then systematized in Rogerius 's The Practice of Surgery .
Universities began systematic training of physicians  around the सालो 1220  in Italy .
दौरान the पुनर्जागरण  , understanding of anatomy improved , and the microscope was invented .
The germ theory of disease in the  19th सदी  led to cures for many infectious diseases .
Military doctors advanced the  विधि of आघात  treatment and surgery .
Public health measures were developed especially in the 19th century as the rapid growth of cities required  व्यवस्थित  sanitary measures .
Advanced research centers opened in the early 20th  सदी , प्रायः कनेक्ट साथ प्रमुख  hospitals .
The mid-20th century was characterized by new  biological उपचार  , such as antibiotics .
These advancements , along with developments in chemistry , genetics , and  lab प्रौद्योगिकी ( ऐसे as the x-ray ) led  to modern medicine .
Medicine was heavily professionalized in the 20th  सदी , और नई करियर खोली to महिलाओं  as nurses ( from the 1870s ) and as physicians ( especially after 1970 ) .
The 21st century is characterized by very advanced research  involving numerous फ़ील्ड of विज्ञान  .
The Hippocratic Corpus , is a  संग्रहण of जल्दी चिकित्सा works इससे प्राचीन यूनानियों  strongly associated with the ancient Greek physician Hippocrates and his teachings .
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K (  इससे neo-latin kalium ) और परमाणु क्रमांक  19 .
Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal  कि oxidizes rapidly in एयर और  is very reactive with water , generating sufficient heat to ignite the hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame .
Because potassium and sodium are  chemically बहुत  similar , their salts were not at first differentiated .
The existence of multiple elements  in उनके लवण थी suspected इससे 1702  , and this was proven in 1807 when potassium and sodium were individually isolated from different salts by electrolysis .
पोटैशियम in  nature occurs only in ionic salts .
As such , it is found  dissolved in seawater  ( which is 0.04 % potassium by weight ) , and is part of many minerals .
Most industrial chemical applications of potassium employ the relatively high  घुलनशीलता in जल  of potassium compounds , such as potassium soaps .
Potassium metal has only a few special applications  , होने replaced in सबसे  chemical reactions with sodium metal .
Potassium ions are  जरुरी लिये the फलन  of all living cells .
Potassium ion diffusion is a key mechanism in nerve transmission ,  और पोटैशियम depletion in पशु  , including humans , results in various cardiac dysfunctions .
पोटैशियम accumulates in संयंत्र कोशिकाएं , और  thus fresh fruits and vegetables are a good dietary source of it .
Conversely , most plants except specialist  halophytes हैं असहिष्णु  of salt , and sodium is present in them only in low concentration .
This  resulted in पोटैशियम पहला  being isolated from potash , the ashes of plants , giving the element its name .
For the same reason , heavy crop production rapidly depletes soils of potassium , and  agricultural fertilizers consume 95 % of वैश्विक  potassium chemical production .
The Singapore dollar or dollar ( sign : $ ; code : SGD ) is the official  करेंसी  of Singapore .
It is normally abbreviated with the dollar  चिह्न $ , or alternatively s $ to फर्क  it from other dollar -denominated currencies .
It is  विभाजित into  100 cents .
The Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary Board still maintain the historic exchangeability of their two  मुद्राएँ , the singaporean डालर और the  Brunei dollar , respectively .
The dollar is accepted as `` customary tender '' in Brunei according to the  करेंसी interchangeability  Agreement .
Likewise , the Brunei dollar  is customarily स्वीकृत in  Singapore
James Samuel  कोलमैन ( may 12 , 1926 – कूच  25 , 1995 ) was an American sociologist , theorist and empirical researcher , based chiefly at the University of Chicago .
He was elected president of the  अमरीकी समाजशास्त्रीय  Association .
Coleman studied the sociology of education , public  नीति , और थी एक of the earliest उपयोक्ता of the पद ``  social capital `` .
His Foundations of  सोशल सिद्धान्त बहकावे  sociological theory .
His The Adolescent Society ( 1961 ) and `` Coleman Report '' ( Equality of Educational Opportunity , 1966 )  यहूद दो of the सबसे heavily cited किताबे in शैक्षणिक  sociology .
The landmark Coleman Report helped transform educational theory , reshape  नेशनल शिक्षा नीतियों , और बहकावे  public and scholarly opinion regarding the role of schooling in determining equality and productivity in the United States .
Superman  ( इससे dc कॉमिक्स ) थी  the first superhero created , art by Jim Lee .
A superhero ( sometimes rendered super-hero or  सुपर नायिका ) is a प्रकार of भण्डार  character possessing `` extraordinary or superhuman powers '' and dedicated to protecting the public .
Since the debut of the prototypical superhero Superman in 1938 , stories of superheroes—ranging from   brief episodic adventures to continuing years-long sagas—have dominated American comic books and crossed over into other media .
The word itself  तिथियाँ to at तनिक  1917 .
A female  सुपरहीरो is sometimes  called a superheroine ( also rendered super-heroine or super heroine ) .
``  सुपर नायक '' is a ट्रेडमार्क  co-owned by DC Comics and Marvel Comics .
By most definitions , characters do not strictly require actual superhuman powers to be deemed superheroes , although terms such as costumed crime fighters or masked vigilantes are sometimes used to refer to those  ऐसे as बैटमैन और ग्रीन तीर बगैर ऐसे  powers who share other common superhero traits .
Such characters were  generally referred to as `` रहस्य मेन  '' in the so-called Golden Age of Comic Books to distinguish them from characters with super-powers .
Normally , superheroes use their powers to counter day-to-day crime while also combating threats against  मानवता by supervillains , उनके दण्ड  counterparts .
Often , one of these supervillains  होगा be  the superhero 's archenemy .
As well , some longrunning superheroes , such as Superman , Batman , Spider-Man and Iron Man each has a  rogues दीर्घा of दुश्मनों  .
As well  , superheroes sometimes होगा कॉम्बैट  such irregular threats as aliens , magical/ fantasy entities , American war enemies such as nazism or communism , and godlike or demonic creatures .
The following is a historical list of  अभिनेताओं और प्राथमिक अक्षर भूमिकाएँ  which appear on the American soap opera One Life to Live .
The Shawshank Redemption is a 1994 American drama film written and directed by Frank Darabont and starring  टिम रॉबिन्स  and Morgan Freeman .
Adapted from the Stephen King novella Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption , the  फिल्मी tells the स्टोरी of एंडी dufresne , a बैंकर जो खर्च nearly दो दशकों in shawshank राज्य  Prison for the murder of his wife and her lover despite his claims of innocence .
During his time at the prison , he befriends a fellow inmate , Ellis Boyd `` Red '' Redding , and finds himself  सुरक्षित by the गार्ड बाद the वार्डन begins using  him in his money laundering operation .
Despite a lukewarm box office reception that barely recouped its budget , the film received favorable reviews from critics , multiple award nominations , and has since  enjoyed a उल्लेखनीय जीवन on केबल टेलीविज़न ,  VHS , DVD , and Blu-ray .
It was included  in the अमरीकी फिल्मी संस्थान 's 100 सालो  ... 100 Movies 10th Anniversary Edition .
IT management is the discipline whereby all of the technology resources of a firm are managed in accordance with its needs  और प्राथमिकताएं  .
These resources may include tangible investments  जैसे कंप्यूटर हार्डवेयर , तन्त्र , आंकड़ा  , networks and data centre facilities , as well as the staffs who are hired to maintain them .
Managing this responsibility within a company entails many of the basic management functions , like budgeting , staffing , and organizing and  controlling , साथ साथ अन्य पहलुओं कि हैं अद्वितीय to  technology , like change management , software design , network planning , tech support etc .
The Penitentiary of New Mexico Prison Riot , which took place on February 2 and 3 , 1980 , in the state 's maximum security prison south of Santa Fe , was one of the most violent prison  दंगे in the इतिहास of the अमरीकी correctional प्रणाली  : 33 inmates died and more than 200 inmates were treated for injuries .
None of the 12 officers taken hostage were killed , but seven were treated for injuries caused by  beatings और rapes  .
This was the third major riot at the NM State Penitentiary , the  पहला occurring on 19 जुलाई 1922 और the दूसरी  on 15 June 1953 .
Author Roger Morris suggests  the मौत टोल may have महरूम उच्चतर  , as a number of bodies were incinerated or dismembered during the course of the mayhem .
`` Red Cardinal ''  redirects  here .
For the  संयंत्र erythrina  herbacea , see Coral Bean .
The Northern Cardinal ( Cardinalis cardinalis ) is a North  अमरीकी बर्ड in the genus cardinalis ;  it is also known colloquially as the redbird or common cardinal .
It can be found in southern Canada , through the eastern United States from Maine to  टेक्सास  and south through Mexico .
It  is मिला in वुडलैंड्स  , gardens , shrublands , and swamps .
The Northern  कार्डिनल is a mid-sized  songbird with a body length of 21 centimeters ( 8.3 inches ) .
It has a distinctive crest on the head and a mask on the face which is  ब्लैक in the पुरूष और धूसर in the मादा  .
The male is a vibrant red , while  the मादा  is a dull red-brown shade .
The  उत्तरी कार्डिनल is मुख्यतः granivorous  , but also feeds on insects and fruit .
The male behaves  territorially , अंकन आउट उसके territory  with song .
During courtship , the male feeds  बीज to the मादा beak-to-beak  .
A  क्लच of तीन to चार अंडे is रखी  , and two to four clutches are produced each year .
it थी एकबार prized as  a pet , but its sale as cage birds is now banned in the United States by the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 .
Surface runoff , also called nonpoint source  प्रदूषण  , from a farm field in Iowa during a rain storm .
Topsoil as well as farm fertilizers and other potential pollutants run off unprotected farm  फ़ील्ड  when heavy rains occur .
Topsoil is the upper , outermost layer of  मृदा , प्रायः the  top to .
It has the highest concentration  of सशुल्क पदार्थ और  microorganisms and is where most of the Earth 's biological soil activity occurs .
Musical cryptogram : ``  aschbeg '' नियत in  Schoenberg 's Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19 , no . 1 , m. 5 .
Note that the notes do not come in spelling  अनुक्रम लकिन हैं सब सटा ( नहीं  separated by other notes ) .
Sechs kleine Klavierstücke , Op . 19 ( or Six Little Piano Pieces ) is a set of pieces for solo piano written  by the आस्ट्रिया composer अर्नाल्ड schoenberg , प्रकाशित  in 1913 .
McAfee , Inc. ( ) is an American global computer security software company headquartered in Santa Clara ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , और the संसार 's largest  dedicated security technology company .
As of  फ़रवरी 28 , 2011 , मैक्एफ़ी  is a wholly owned subsidiary of Intel .
McAfee 's competitors in the antivirus industry are  avira , bitdefender , bullguard ,  F-Secure , Frisk , Kaspersky , Symantec , and Trend Micro to name a few .
Saint Rita of Cascia ( Born Margherita Lotti 1381 - May 22 , 1457 ) was  an इतालवी augustinian नन , विधवा और संत venerated in the  Roman Catholic Church .
Rita  थी शादीशुदा  at an early age .
The marriage lasted for 18 years , during which she is remembered for her Christian values as a model wife and mother who made efforts to  बदलें उसके husband इससे उसके गाली बर्ताव  .
Upon the murder of her husband by another  feuding परिवार , वो sought to dissuade  her sons from revenge .
She subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters ,  जहाँ वो थी ज्ञात लिये practicing mortification  of the flesh , along with the apparent efficacy of her prayers .
St. Rita is venerated due to various miracles attributed to her  सिफ़ारिश , और is प्रायः portrayed साथ a bleeding घाव  on her forehead , which the Roman Catholic Church claims to have been a partial stigmata .
The Roman  कैथोलिक गिरिजाघर , अंतर्गत the pontificate of पोप leo xiii officially  canonized Rita on May 24 , 1900 , while her feast day is celebrated every May 22 .
In many pious  कैथोलिक देशों , रीता is ज्ञात  to be a patroness for abused wives and mourning women .
North America is a continent  wholly भीतर the उत्तरी गोलार्ध और लगभग wholly  within the Western Hemisphere .
It  is भी माना  a northern subcontinent of the Americas .
It is bordered to the north by the Arctic  समंदर , to the ईस्ट by the अटलांटिक समंदर ,  to the west and south by the Pacific Ocean , and to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea .
North America covers  an क्षेत्रफल of परिचय 24,709,000 वर्गाकार  kilometers ( 9,540,000 square miles ) , about 4.8 % of the planet 's surface or about 16.5 % of its land area .
As of July 2008 , its population was estimated at nearly 529 million people across  23 स्वतंत्र राज्य , representing  about 7.5 % of the human population .
उत्तर अमेरिका is the third-largest  continent in area , following Asia and Africa , and the fourth in population after Asia , Africa , and Europe .
The first people to live in North America were Paleoindians who began to arrive  दौरान the पिछला  glacial period by crossing the Bering land bridge .
They differentiated  into a क्रमांक of विविध संस्कृतियों  and communities across the continent .
The largest and most advanced Pre-Columbian civilizations in North America were  the aztecs in कया is अभी मैक्सिको और  the Mayans in Central America .
European colonists began to arrive starting in the 16th and 17th centuries ,  wiping आउट विशाल संख्याएँ of the देशी populations  and beginning an era of European dominance .
Jermaine Lamarr Cole ( born January 28 , 1985 ) , better known by his stage name J. Cole , is an  अमरीकी hip-hop रिकॉर्डिंग कलाकार और रिकार्ड निर्माता  from Fayetteville , North Carolina .
In 2009 ,  he became the पहला कलाकार  to sign to Jay-Z 's Roc Nation label .
His long-awaited debut album , entitled Cole World :  the sideline स्टोरी , थी released  on September 27 , 2011 .
The  एल्बम debuted at क्रमांक एक on the us बिलबोर्ड  200 , Top R & B Albums and Top Rap Albums chart , selling more than 218,000 in its first week .
He received a nomination for Best New Artist at the 54th  ग्रैमी  Awards .
the दो प्रमुख वर्ण  of the series , Ratchet ( right ) and Clank ( left ) .
ratchet & clank is  a series of platform video games .
The franchise was created and developed by Insomniac Games and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for many  अलग प्लेस्टेशन consoles , ऐसे as प्लेस्टेशन 2 और प्लेस्टेशन  3 with the exclusion of Size Matters and Secret Agent Clank , which were developed by High Impact Games for the PlayStation Portable .
Every game in the  श्रेणी रै महरूम  released for every console , as the IP is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment .
An animated feature film adaptation produced by Rainmaker  entertainment और नाकेबंदी entertainment is अनुसूचित लिये a नाट्य  release sometime in 2015 .
The games take place in a science fiction setting and follow the adventures of Ratchet ( an animalistic  human-like अक्षर ज्ञात as a lombax , जो is a मैकेनिक )  and Clank ( a diminutive , sentient robot ) as they travel through the universe , saving it from evil forces on a regular basis .
The series is noted for the inclusion of many exotic and unique , over  the शीर्ष हथियार और डिवाइस , a अवधारणा  that Insomniac Games also expanded into their other games .
A will or testament is a legal declaration by which a person , the testator ,  names एक or अधिक व्यक्तियों to मैनेज  his/her estate and provides for the transfer of his property at death .
For the devolution of  प्रॉपर्टी नहीं disposed of  by will , see inheritance and intestacy .
In the strictest sense , a `` will '' has historically been limited to real property while `` testament '' applies only to dispositions of personal property ( thus giving rise to the popular title of the  दस्तावेज़ as `` पिछला होगा और वसीयत '' ) , हालांकि इस भेद is seldom  observed today .
A will may also create a testamentary trust that  is प्रभावी तभी बाद the मौत  of the testator .
The 19.9 MW Gemasolar solar plant in Spain features 15 hours of  भंडार और can सप्लाई शक्ति  24 hours a day .
Solar energy , radiant light and heat from the sun , has been  harnessed by इंसानो चूंकि प्राचीन  times using a range of ever-evolving technologies .
Solar energy technologies include solar heating , solar photovoltaics , solar thermal  विद्युत , सौर वास्तुकला और कृत्रिम photosynthesis  , which can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent energy problems the world now faces .
Solar  technologies हैं broadly  characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture , convert and distribute solar energy .
Active solar techniques include the use of  photovoltaic panels और  solar thermal collectors to harness the energy .
Passive  सौर तकनीकों शामिल orienting a भवन to the  Sun , selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties , and designing spaces that naturally circulate air .
In 2011 , the International Energy Agency said that ``  the विकास of सस्ती , inexhaustible  and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits .
It will increase  countries’ उर्जा सुरक्षा through रिलायंस on an स्वदेशी  , inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource , enhance sustainability , reduce pollution , lower the costs of mitigating climate change , and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise .
ये लाभ  are global .
Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning  निवेश ; वे जरूर be बुद्धिमानी  spent and need to be widely shared '' .
Sir Thomas More ( ; 7 February 14786 July 1535 ) , known to Roman Catholics as Saint  थामस अधिक चूंकि 1935 , थी an अंग्रेज़ी वकील , सोशल पारस , लेखक  , statesman , and noted Renaissance humanist .
He was an important  पार्षद to हेनरी viii of इंग्लैण्ड और  was Lord Chancellor from October 1529 to 16 May 1532 .
He was canonized by Pope Pius XI in 1935 as one of the early martyrs of the schism that  अलग the गिरिजाघर of इंग्लैण्ड इससे रोम  in the 16th century .
In 2000 , Pope John Paul II  घोषित उसे संरक्षक  of Catholic statesmen and politicians .
More was an opponent of the Protestant Reformation , in  particular of मार्टिन लूथर और विलियम टिंडेल  .
However , since 1980 , he is also commemorated by the  गिरिजाघर  of England as a reformation martyr .
More coined the word `` utopia `` – a name  he दिया to the आदर्श और काल्पनिक द्वीप  nation , the political system of which he described in Utopia , published in 1516 .
He  opposed the किंग 's विरह इससे the रोमन  Catholic Church and refused to accept him as Supreme Head of the Church of England , a title which had been given by parliament through the Act of Supremacy of 1534 .
He was imprisoned in 1534 for his refusal to take the oath  जरूरी by the पहला उत्तराधिकार अधिनियम , क्युकी the अधिनियम disparaged papal  Authority and Henry’s marriage to Catherine of Aragon .
In 1535 , he was tried for  देशद्रोह , convicted  on perjured testimony , and beheaded .
More also helped to originate the phrase `` grasp at straws '' to mean  `` शिद्दत trying भी व्यर्थ  things '' , in his Dialogue of Comfort Against Tribulation .
Intellectuals and statesmen  आरपार यूरोपीय यहूद  stunned by More 's execution .
Erasmus saluted him as one ``  जिनकी आत्मा थी अधिक pure than कोई हिम , जिनकी  genius was such that England never had and never again will have its like '' .
There was a more  विवादास्पद पक्ष to अधिक 's जीवन , क्युकी he advocated  the persecution and execution of Protestants who refused to recant their faith .
However , the judgement of history has been largely willing to forgive this in light of the times he  जिया in और उसके शहादत in the रोमन कैथोलिक  cause .
Two centuries later Jonathan Swift said More was `` the person of the  महानतम पुण्य इस किंगडम  ever produced '' , a sentiment with which Samuel Johnson agreed .
Historian Hugh Trevor-Roper said in 1977 that More was `` the first great Englishman whom we feel that  we जान , the सबसे saintly of humanists , the सबसे इंसान  of saints , the universal man of our cool northern renaissance . ''
Captain Nemo , also known as Prince Dakkar , is a fictional  अक्षर invented by the फ्रेंच  science fiction author Jules Verne .
Nemo appears in two of Verne 's novels , Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea ( 1870 ) and The Mysterious Island (  1874 ) , और makes a कैमियो रूप in वर्न 's खेल यात्रा through  the Impossible ( 1882 ) .
Nemo , one of  the सबसे  famous antiheroes in fiction , is a mysterious figure .
The son of an Indian Raja , he is a  वैज्ञानिक प्रतिभाशाली जो roams the गहराइयों of the समुद्र in  his submarine , the Nautilus , which was built on a deserted island .
Nemo tries to project a stern , controlled confidence , but  he is चलित by a प्यास  for vengeance and a hatred of imperialism ( particularly the British Empire ) .
He is also wracked by remorse over the deaths of his crew members  और भी by the मौतों  of enemy sailors .
Nemo has appeared in various adaptations of Verne 's novels , including films ,  जहाँ he रै महरूम portrayed  by a number of different actors .
He has furthermore been adopted by other authors for inclusion in their novels , most notably in Alan Moore 's The League of Extraordinary  सज्जनों और फिलिप जोस किसान 's the अन्य log of phileas  Fogg .
Listed below are the Major League Baseball teams with the best season  won-lost रिकॉर्ड in इतिहास , as  determined by winning percentage ( .700 or better ) , minimum 120 games played .
ध्वनिक  coupler modem
A modem ( modulator-demodulator ) is a device that modulates an analog  वाहक सिग्नल to encode डिजिटल सूचना  , and also demodulates such a carrier signal to decode the transmitted information .
The goal is to produce a  सिग्नल कि can be transmitted easily और  decoded to reproduce the original digital data .
Modems can be  प्रयुक्त over कोई अर्थात् of transmitting  analog signals , from light emitting diodes to radio .
The most familiar example is a voice band modem that turns the digital data of a personal computer into modulated electrical  सिग्नल in the आवाज़ आवृत्ति  range of a telephone channel .
These signals can be transmitted over telephone lines and  demodulated by another मॉडेम at the receiver  side to recover the digital data .
Modems  हैं generally वर्गीकृत  by the amount of data they can send in a given unit of time , usually expressed in bits per second ( bit/s , or bps ) , or bytes per second ( B/s ) .
Modems can alternatively be  वर्गीकृत by उनके प्रतीक  rate , measured in baud .
The baud unit denotes symbols per second  , or the क्रमांक of टाइम्स प्रति दूसरी the मॉडेम  sends a new signal .
For example , the ITU V.21 standard used audio frequency shift keying with two possible  बारंबारता सम्बन्धित to दो पृथक प्रतीकों (  or one bit per symbol ) , to carry 300 bits per second using 300 baud .
By contrast ,  the असली itu v.22 मानक , जिससे थी समर्थ to संचारण और प्राप्त चार  distinct symbols ( two bits per symbol ) , handled 1,200 bit/s by sending 600 symbols per second ( 600 baud ) using phase shift keying .
The Declaration of Independence is a statement adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4 , 1776 , which announced that the thirteen American colonies , then at war with Great Britain ,  regarded themselves as स्वतंत्र राज्य , और no longer a भाग of the अंग्रेजों  Empire .
Instead they now formed a new  nation—the संयुक्त  States of America .
John Adams was a leader in  pushing लिये स्वतंत्रता  , which was unanimously approved on July 2 .
A  कमेटी था already drafted  the formal declaration , to be ready when congress voted on independence .
Adams persuaded the committee to select Thomas Jefferson to compose the original draft of the document , which congress  होता संपादन to उपज the फाइनल संस्करण .
The Declaration was ultimately a  औपचारिक स्पष्टीकरण of क्यों  Congress had voted on July 2 to declare independence from Great Britain , more than a year after the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War .
The national birthday , the  स्वतंत्रता  Day is celebrated on July 4 , although Adams wanted July 2 .
बाद ratifying the टेक्स्ट on जुलाई  4 , Congress issued the Declaration of Independence in several forms .
It  थी initially प्रकाशित as the  printed Dunlap broadside that was widely distributed and read to the public .
The most famous version of the Declaration , a signed copy that is popularly regarded as the Declaration of Independence , is displayed at  the नेशनल अभिलेख  in Washington , D.C .
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved  on जुलाई 4 , the तिथि of  its signing was August 2 .
The original July 4 United States Declaration of Independence manuscript was lost while all other  नक़ल have महरूम निकला इससे इस असली दस्तावेज़  .
The sources and interpretation of the Declaration have been the subject of  much scholarly पूछताछ  .
The Declaration justified the independence of the United States by listing colonial grievances against King  जार्ज iii , और by asserting निश्चित प्राकृतिक और विधिक  rights , including a right of revolution .
having परोसा इसके असली purpose in announcing  independence , the text of the Declaration was initially ignored after the American Revolution .
Since  तब , it रै आइये to be माना  a major statement on human rights , particularly its second sentence:
We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of  सुख  .
This has been called `` one of the best-known  वाक्य in the अंग्रेज़ी भाषा '' , containing `` the सबसे  potent and consequential words in American history . ''
The passage came to represent a moral  मानक to जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य चाहिए  strive .
This view was notably promoted by Abraham Lincoln , who considered the Declaration to be the foundation of his political philosophy , and argued that the Declaration is a statement of principles through  जिससे the संयुक्त राज्य संविधान  should be interpreted .
It has inspired work for the rights of marginalized people throughout  the संसार  .
The Economy of Greenland can be characterized as small  , मिश्रित और vulnerable  .
The present  अर्थव्यवस्था consists of a बिग पब्लिक सेक्टर और व्यापक  foreign trade , which has resulted in an economy with periods of strong growth , considerable inflation , unemployment problems and extreme dependence on capital inflow from Denmark and use of outside , mainly Danish , skilled labor .
GDP per capita is similar to the average European economies but the economy is critically dependent upon substantial support from the Danish government , which supplies about half the  revenues of the घर नियम सरकारी  who in turn employ about 8,000 Greenlanders out of a labor force of 40,156 ( Jan. 2012 ) .
Unemployment nonetheless  remains ऊँची , साथ the बाकी  of the economy dependent upon demand for exports of shrimp and fish .
Hydrogen is a chemical element with symbol H and  परमाणु क्रमांक  1 .
With an atomic weight of ( for hydrogen-1 ) , hydrogen is the lightest element and its monatomic form ( H1 ) is the most  abundant रासायनिक पदार्थ ,  constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe 's baryonic mass .
Non- remnant  सितारों हैं मुख्यतः रचित  of hydrogen in its plasma state .
at मानक तापमान  and pressure , hydrogen is a colorless , odorless , tasteless , non-toxic , nonmetallic , highly combustible diatomic gas with the molecular formula H2 .
Most of the hydrogen on Earth is in molecules such as water and organic compounds  क्युकी हाइड्रोजन readily फ़ॉर्म covalent यौगिकों साथ  most non-metallic elements .
Hydrogen plays a particularly important  भूमिका in acid-base रसायन साथ अनेक प्रतिक्रियाएँ exchanging  protons between soluble molecules .
In ionic compounds , it can take a negative charge ( an  anion ज्ञात as a हाइड्राइड और लिखा  as H− ) , or as a positively charged species H+ .
The latter cation is written as though composed of a bare proton , but in reality , hydrogen cations in  ionic यौगिकों सदा occur as अधिक जटिल  species .
The most common isotope of  हाइड्रोजन is protium ( नाम rarely  used , symbol 1H ) with a single proton and no neutrons .
As the simplest atom known , the hydrogen atom  रै महरूम of सैद्धांतिक  use .
For example , as the only neutral atom with an analytic solution to the Schrödinger  समीकरण , the पढ़ाई of the energetics और संबंध of the हाइड्रोजन  atom played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics .
Hydrogen gas was first artificially  उत्पादित in the जल्दी 16th सदी  , via the mixing of metals with acids .
In 1766–81 , Henry Cavendish was the  पहला to recognize कि हाइड्रोजन गैस थी  a discrete substance , and that it produces water when burned , a property which later gave it its name : in Greek , hydrogen means `` water-former '' .
Industrial production is mainly from the steam  reforming of प्राकृतिक गैस , और कम प्रायः इससे अधिक energy-intensive  hydrogen production methods like the electrolysis of water .
Most hydrogen is employed  निकट इसके उत्पादन साईट  , with the two largest uses being fossil fuel processing ( e.g. , hydrocracking ) and ammonia production , mostly for the fertilizer market .
हाइड्रोजन is a चिंता in metallurgy  as it can embrittle many metals , complicating the design of pipelines and storage tanks .
Unstoppable is a 2010 American action thriller film  निर्देशित by टोनी स्कॉट , लिखा by चिह्नित  Bomback , and starring Denzel Washington and Chris Pine .
The film , loosely based on the real-life CSX 8888  घटना , tells the स्टोरी  of a runaway freight train , and the two men ( Washington and Pine ) who manage to stop it .
It  थी स्कॉट  's final feature film before his death in 2012 .
the फिल्मी थी released  in the United States and Canada on November 12 , 2010 , and in the United Kingdom on November 24 , 2010 .
It received mostly favorable reviews from film critics ; it garnered a `` Certified Fresh '' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based upon aggregated reviews and a rating of ``  generally अनुकूल समीक्षाएँ  '' at Metacritic .
The film was nominated for an Academy Award for  बेहतरीन ध्वनि संपादन at the 83rd अकादमी  Awards , but lost to Inception .
In photography , bracketing is the general  तकनीक  of taking several shots of the same subject using different camera settings .
Bracketing is useful and often recommended in situations that make it difficult to obtain a satisfactory image with a single shot ,  विशेषकर जब a छोटी विभिन्नता in एक्सपोज़र पैरामीटर्स रै a comparatively विशाल  effect on the resulting image .
Autobracketing is automatic bracketing by using a setting on the camera to take several bracketed shots ( in contrast to  the फ़ोटोग्राफ़र altering the जमावट by हाथ  between each shot ) .
Given the time it takes to accomplish multiple shots , it is typically ,  लकिन नहीं सदा , प्रयुक्त लिये स्थिर विषय  .
Insulated glazing ( IG ) , more commonly known as double glazing ( or double-pane , and  increasingly ट्रिपल glazing/pane ) हैं दोगुना or ट्रिपल कांच खिड़की panes अलग  by an air or other gas filled space to reduce heat transfer across a part of the building envelope .
Insulated Glass Units are manufactured with glass in range  of मोटाई इससे 3 mm to 10  mm or more in special applications .
Laminated or tempered glass may also be used as part  of the निर्माण .
Most units are manufactured with the same thickness of glass used on both panes but special applications such as acoustic attenuation or security  may आवश्यकता चौड़ी सीमाएँ of thicknesses  to be incorporated in the same unit .
A sectioned diagram  of a फिक्स्ड insulated  Glazed Unit ( IGU ) , indicating the numbering convention used in this article .
Surface # 1 is facing  बाहर , सतह # 2 is the अंदर सतह of  the exterior pane , Surface # 3 is the outside surface of the interior pane , and Surface # 4 is the inside surface of interior pane .
The window frame is labelled # 5 , a spacer is indicated as # 6 , seals are shown in red ( # 7 ) , the internal reveal is on the right hand  पक्ष ( # 8 ) और the exterior windowsill on  the left ( # 9 )
To reduce shear effects on the sealed unit ( a major cause of premature failure ) , manufacturers use a rule of thumb that permits a difference of  1 mm between the मोटाई  of the panes of glass used in the unit and still maintain the warranty for the unit .
For  उदाहरण , a ईकाई may be ordered साथ a 4 mm फलक  on the exterior and a 3 mm pane on the interior .
These variations are allowed for  architectural और  cost reasons .
Other combinations  can be निर्दिष्ट और उत्पादित लकिन the निर्माता may आरक्षित  the right to limit the term of the warranty or refuse to warranty the unit altogether .
For ease of description the surfaces of a double paned unit are named according to the following convention : Surface # 1 ( facing outside ) , Surface # 2 ( inside of outside pane ) , Surface # 3 ( outside of inside pane ) and Surface #  4 ( अंदर  surface of inside pane ) .
Applying the corresponding nomenclature for triple paned units  परिणाम in सतहों # 1  through # 6 .
The performance of insulating glazing can be modified  through the उपयोग of  the following:
a ठेठ संस्थापना of  insulated glazing windows with uPVC window frames .
Selenium  is a रासायनिक  element with symbol Se and atomic number 34 .
It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate between those of its periodic table column-adjacent chalcogen  तत्व गंधक और tellurium  .
It rarely occurs in its elemental state in nature , or as  pure अयस्क यौगिकों  .
Selenium ( Greek σελήνη selene meaning `` Moon '' ) was discovered in 1817 by  jöns याक़ूब berzelius , जो विख्यात the समानता of the नई तत्व to the previously-known  tellurium ( named for the Earth ) .
Selenium is  मिला impurely in मेटल sulfide ores  , where it partially replaces the sulfur .
Commercially , selenium is produced as a byproduct in the refining  of ये ores , सबसे  often during copper production .
Minerals that are pure selenide or  selenate यौगिकों हैं  known , but are rare .
The chief commercial  उपयोग लिये सेलेनियम  today are in glassmaking and in pigments .
Selenium is a semiconductor  और is प्रयुक्त in photocells  .
Uses in electronics , once important , have been  ज़्यादातर supplanted by सिलिकॉन सेमीकंडक्टर  devices .
Selenium continues to be used in a few types of DC power surge  protectors और  one type of fluorescent quantum dot .
Selenium salts are toxic in large amounts ,  लकिन ट्रेस amounts हैं जरुरी लिये सेल्यूलर  function in many organisms , including all animals .
Selenium is a component of the antioxidant enzymes  glutathione peroxidase और thioredoxin reductase  ( which indirectly reduce certain oxidized molecules in animals and some plants ) .
It is also found in three deiodinase enzymes , which convert one  थायराइड हार्मोन to another  .
Selenium requirements in plants differ by species , with some  पौधे requiring अपेक्षाकृत  large amounts , and others apparently requiring none .
The United States presidential election of 2008 was the 56th quadrennial  अध्यक्षीय चुनाव  .
it थी  held on Tuesday , November 4 , 2008 .
Democrat Barack  ओबामा , तब the जूनियर सीनेटर इससे इलिनोइस  , defeated Republican John McCain , the senior Senator from Arizona .
As the campaign progressed , the War in Iraq and outgoing Republican President George W. Bush had become increasingly unpopular  , और the major-party उम्मीदवार भागा on a मंच  of change and reform .
Domestic policy and the economy  आखिरकार उभरा as the प्रमुख  themes in the last few months of the election campaign after the onset of the worst recession since the 1930s .
Obama would go on to win a decisive victory over McCain in both  the चुनावी और लोकप्रिय  vote .
Obama received the most votes for a presidential candidate in American history , and won the popular  और चुनावी vote by the largest हाशिया in 12 सालो  , as well as the largest percentage of the popular vote for a Democrat in nearly a half-century .
This was the first U.S. presidential election in which an African American was elected , having also been the first in which an African American won the nomination of  either प्रमुख  party .
This election was also notable for being the first time in U.S. history that both major party candidates were sitting U.S . Senators , only the third time  ( बाद 1920 और 1960 ) कि कोई बैठे u.s . सीनेटर थी निर्वाचित अध्यक्ष , और  only the second time that the winning President and Vice President ( Obama and Biden ) were both sitting U.S . Senators .
This was also the first election since 1952 in which neither  of the प्रमुख पार्टियों ' नामांकित थी the लाज़िम  President or Vice President .
The Sovereign Prince or Princess of Monaco is the reigning  monarch और सिर of राज्य of the  Principality of Monaco .
All princes  or राजकुमारियों have officially लिया  the name of the House of Grimaldi , but have belonged to various other houses ( Goyon de Matignon , Polignac ) in male line .
The reigning  प्रिंस  is Albert II .
Visualization of fragmentation and then of  defragmentation
In the maintenance of file systems , defragmentation is a  प्रक्रम कि reduces the राशि of fragmentation  .
It does this by physically organizing the contents of the mass storage device used to store files  into the smallest क्रमांक of  contiguous regions ( fragments ) .
It also attempts to create larger regions of free space using compaction to impede  the वापसी of fragmentation  .
Some defragmentation utilities try to keep  छोटी फाइलें भीतर a सिंगल निर्देशिका  together , as they are often accessed in sequence .
defragmentation  is advantageous and relevant to file systems on electromechanical disk drives .
The movement of the hard drive 's read/write heads over different areas of the disk when accessing fragmented files is slower , compared to accessing the entire contents of a  non-fragmented  file sequentially without moving the read/write heads to seek other fragments .
A service-level agreement ( SLA  ) is a भाग of a सेवा अनुबंध  where a service is formally defined .
In practice , the term SLA  is sometimes प्रयुक्त to refer to the  contracted delivery time ( of the service or performance ) .
As an  उदाहरण , अंतरजाल सेवा प्रदाताओं होगा commonly शामिल सेवा  level agreements within the terms of their contracts with customers to define the level ( s ) of service being sold in plain language terms .
In this case the SLA will typically have a technical definition in terms of mean time between failures ( MTBF ) , mean time to repair or mean time to recovery ( MTTR ) ; various data  दरों ; throughput ; जिटर ; or समान measurable  details .
Union  स्टेशन  is a former shopping mall in Union City , Georgia , in southwest metro Atlanta adjacent to Interstate 85 .
After new ownership and  renovations in 2006 , the नाम थी बदला  from Shannon Southpark Mall in 2007 to Union Station Mall .
A  पिछला नवीकरण  was done in the late 1990s .
The mall has  महरूम बंद  since November 2010 .
This map shows  the संलग्न  United States and , in insets at the lower left , the two states that are not contiguous .
The contiguous United States are the 48 adjoining U.S. states on the continent of North America that are south of  कनाडा और उत्तर of मैक्सिको , प्लस the ज़िला of कोलंबिया  .
The term excludes the  राज्य of अलास्का और हवाई , और  all off-shore U.S. territories and possessions , such as Puerto Rico .
Together , the 48 contiguous states and D.C.  occupy a संयुक्त क्षेत्रफल of  , which is 1.58 % of the total surface area of the Earth .
Of this ,  is जमीन ,  composing 83.65 % of U.S. land area .
Officially , is water area , composing 62.66  % of the स्वदेश  's water area .
The 2010 census  जनसांख्यिकी थी 306,675,006 , composing  99.33 % of the nation 's population , and a density of 103.639 inhabitants/sq mi ( 40.015/km2 ) , compared to 87.264/sq mi ( 33.692/km2 ) for the nation as a whole .
`` Why '' is the title of a song recorded by American  देश बैंड rascal flatts  .
It is the third single from  उनके छठे स्टुडियो  album , Unstoppable .
It was  released to रेडियो स्टेशन on सितंबर 29 , 2009 और  debuted at # 44 on the U.S . Billboard US Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week of October 10 , 2009 .
It was  लिखा by रोब mathes और  Allen Shamblin .
Utilization management is the evaluation of the appropriateness , medical need and efficiency of health  परवाह सेवाएं प्रक्रियाओं और सुविधाएं according to स्थापित मापदण्ड or दिशानिर्देश और  under the provisions of an applicable health benefits plan .
typically it शामिल नई क्रियाएँ  or decisions based upon the analysis of a case .
Utilization management describes proactive procedures , including  निर्वहन नियोजन , संयुक्त नियोजन  , pre-certification and clinical case appeals .
It also covers proactive  प्रक्रियाओं , ऐसे as संयुक्त  clinical reviews and peer reviews , as well as appeals introduced by the provider , payer or patient .
As pre-certification and  संयुक्त पुनर्विलोकन  of cases grew , utilization management spun out of utilization review .
While not synonymous , health care professionals tend to use the terms as  interchangeable  .
The difference is  utilization प्रबन्धन is  and intends to manage health care cases efficiently and cost effectively before and during health care administration .
Utilization review is more considering whether  स्वास्थ्य परवाह थी appropriately लागू बाद it थी administered  .
There are  चार मौलिक तकनीकों  in utilization management:
Demand  प्रबन्धन
utilization  Review
Case  प्रबन्धन
बीमारी  Management
The Outsiders  is a coming-of-age अनोखा  by S. E. Hinton , first published in 1967 by Viking Press .
Hinton was 15 when she started writing the novel , but did  सबसे of the कार्य जब वो थी सोलह और a जूनियर in ऊँची  school .
hinton थी  18 when the book was published .
The  किताब फ़ॉलो दो प्रतिद्वंद्वी समूह ,  the Greasers and the Socs ( pronounced by the author as , short for Socials ) , who are divided by their socioeconomic status .
The book takes place in  तुलसा , ओक्लाहोमा , in 1965  , but it is never stated in the book .
A film adaptation was produced in 1983 , and a little-known  short-lived टेलीविज़न श्रेणी appeared  in 1990 , picking up where the movie left off .
The  संयुक्त राज्य हाउस of प्रतिनिधि  is one of the two houses of the United States Congress ( a bicameral legislature ) .
It is  अक्सर referred  to as the House .
The  अन्य हाउस  is the Senate .
The  संयोजन और शक्तियां of the हाउस हैं  established in Article One of the United States Constitution .
The major power of the House is to pass federal legislation that affects the entire country although its bills must also be passed by the Senate and further agreed to by the U.S. President before becoming law ( unless both the House and Senate re-pass the  विधान साथ a two-thirds बहुमत in प्रत्येक कक्ष  ) .
The House has several exclusive powers : the power to initiate revenue bills , to impeach officials , and to elect the U.S. President in  मामला वहीँ is no बहुमत  in the Electoral College .
Each U.S. state is represented in the House in proportion to its population  लकिन is हकदार to at तनिक एक  representative .
The most populous state ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया , फिलहाल रै  53 representatives .
The total number of voting  प्रतिनिधि  is fixed by law at 435 .
प्रत्येक प्रतिनिधि  serves for a two-year term .
The Speaker of the United States House of  प्रतिनिधि , जो presides over the कक्ष ,  is elected by the members of the House , and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference , whichever party has more voting members .
The House meets in the  दक्षिण  wing of the United States Capitol .
A supply chain is actually a  जटिल और डायनेमिक  supply and demand network .
( cf .  wieland/wallenburg  , 2011 )
A supply  कड़ी is a प्रणाली of संगठन , लोगों  , activities , information , and resources involved in moving a product or service from supplier to customer .
Supply chain activities transform natural resources , raw materials , and components into a  समाप्त उत्पाद कि is वितरित to the समाप्त  customer .
In sophisticated supply chain systems  , प्रयुक्त उत्पाद may  re-enter the supply chain at any point where residual value is recyclable .
सप्लाई जंजीरों  link value chains .
`` Purple Haze '' is a song written and recorded by  जिमि हेंड्रिक्स in 1967 , released as the  second single by The Jimi Hendrix Experience in both the United Kingdom and the United States .
It  बाद appeared on the अमरीकी  version of the band 's 1967 album Are You Experienced .
`` Purple Haze '' has become one of the `` archetypical  साइकेडेलिक ड्रग गीतों of the sixties  '' .
`` Purple Haze  's  '' guitar virtuosic techniques would be emulated by many metal guitarists .
A close up picture  of a गैंडा  skin .
Skin is the soft outer  covering of vertebrates  .
Other animal coverings such as the arthropod exoskeleton have different  developmental उत्पत्ति  , structure and chemical composition .
The  क्रियाशील cutaneous  means `` of the skin '' ( from Latin cutis , skin ) .
In mammals , the skin is the largest organ of the  integumentary प्रणाली बना up of  multiple layers of ectodermal tissue , and guards the underlying muscles , bones , ligaments and internal organs .
Skin of a different nature exists in amphibians , reptiles  , और  birds .
All mammals have some hair on their skin , even  समुद्री स्तनधारियों जिससे appear  to be hairless .
The skin  अंतरफलक साथ the पर्यावरण और  is the first line of defense from external factors .
For example , the skin plays a key role in protecting the body against pathogens  और excessive जल  loss .
Its other functions are  इन्सुलेशन ,  temperature regulation , sensation , and the production of vitamin D folates .
Severely damaged skin may heal by  forming scar ऊतक  .
This is sometimes  discoloured और depigmented  .
the मोटाई of स्किन भी varies  from location to location on an organism .
In humans for example , the skin located under the eyes and around the  eyelids is the thinnest स्किन in the देह at 0.5 mm मोटा ,  and is one of the first areas to show signs of aging such as `` crows feet '' and wrinkles .
The skin on the palms and  the सोल्स of the फीट  is 4 mm thick and the thickest skin in the body .
फर is  dense hair .
Primarily , fur augments the insulation the skin provides  लकिन can भी serve as a द्वितीयक  sexual characteristic or as camouflage .
On some animals , the skin is very  मुश्किल और मोटा  , and can be processed to create leather .
Reptiles and fish have hard protective scales on their skin for protection , and  पक्षियों have मुश्किल feathers , सब बना of मुश्किल  β- keratins .
Amphibian skin is not a strong barrier to passage of chemicals and is often  विषय to परासरण और diffusive शक्तियां  .
For example , a frog sitting in an anesthetic solution would be  sedated  quickly , as the chemical diffuses through its skin .
Thomas  स्कॉट
The Rev . Thomas Scott ( 1747-1821 ) was an influential preacher and author who is principally known for  उसके best-selling कार्य a commentary on  The Whole Bible and The Force of Truth , and as one of the founders of the Church Missionary Society .
डेनियल  Radcliffe , who portrays Harry Potter , has been the icon of the film series since the release of the first film in 2001 .
Some of the most renowned actors of the United Kingdom and Ireland have  voiced or portrayed वर्ण appearing  in the Harry Potter film series based on the book series by J. K. Rowling .
Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert Grint and Emma  वाटसन have निभाई हैरी कुम्हार  , Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger in all the films .
When they were  डाल  only Radcliffe had previously acted in a film .
Complementing them on screen are such actors as Helena Bonham Carter , Jim Broadbent , John Cleese , Robbie Coltrane , Warwick Davis , Ralph Fiennes , Michael Gambon , Brendan Gleeson , Richard Griffiths , Richard Harris , John Hurt , Jason  isaacs , miriam margolyes , हेलेन mccrory , गेरी oldman  , Alan Rickman , Fiona Shaw , Maggie Smith , Timothy Spall , Imelda Staunton , David Thewlis , Emma Thompson , and Julie Walters , among others .
Thirteen actors have appeared  as the वही अक्षर in सब आठ  films of the franchise .
Some well-known British actors who have not appeared in the  श्रेणी , हैं  asked in jest why they have not been cast .
When David Yates was directing the fifth film , Bill Nighy , who had previously collaborated with Yates on three of his television projects , said that he  joked साथ येट्स कि संभवतः अभी he होता n't be the  only actor in England who had n't been in Harry Potter .
`` But nobody called  '' , nighy  added .
But in 2009 , Yates cast Nighy as Minister of Magic Rufus  scrimgeour in deathly hallows  .
Nighy said , `` I am no longer the only  अंग्रेज़ी कर्ता नहीं to be in  Harry Potter and I am very pleased . ''
Jude Law has  quipped , ``  Nobody 's asked me .
I was a  बिट  too old for Harry '' .
When a reporter compared potions  प्राध्यापक होरेस slughorn 's obsession साथ प्रसिद्ध names to the  series ' connection to `` every notable British actor , '' Jim Broadbent , who plays Slughorn said , `` Well , not every actor gets invited .
I know  कुछ जो हैं  still waiting . ''
With the exception of Chris Columbus , each director has had a cameo appearance in his  संबंधित फिल्मी : अलफोंसो cuarón appears as a जादूगर पकड़कर a मोमबत्ती दौरान a झाँकी at the तीन  Broomsticks in Prisoner of Azkaban ; Mike Newell is heard briefly as the radio presenter in Frank Bryce 's house in Goblet of Fire ; and David Yates features as a wizard within a magical moving portrait in Order of the Phoenix .
निर्माता दाउद heyman भी makes  a cameo appearance as a wizard featured within a magical moving portrait in the third film , Prisoner of Azkaban .
J. K. Rowling  दिया a वाक दौरान the संसार प्रीमियर of the  final film in the series— Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 —on 7 July 2011 in London , England .
She announced that she could never have dreamt of the talented actors and  अभिनेत्रियों जो have appeared in सब the  Harry Potter movies .
रोलिंग भी घोषित कि वहीँ हैं सात हैरी कुम्हार फिल्मी श्रेणी डाल सदस्यों , जो वो  refers to as `` The Big Seven '' , they are Daniel Radcliffe , Rupert Grint , Emma Watson , Tom Felton , Matthew Lewis , Evanna Lynch and Bonnie Wright .
The list below is sorted by  फिल्मी और अक्षर ,  as some characters have been portrayed by multiple actors .
कुंजी
( v ) indicates the actor or  अभिनेत्री lent  only his or her voice for his or her film character
( y ) indicates the actor  or  actress portrayed the role in a flashback scene or when the character was young .
( f ) indicates the actor or actress did not appear in any new footage for the film ;  फुटेज इससे an पहले फिल्मी or  films was used .
A light grey cell ( such as the one in the ``  दान  Burbage '' row in the `` Philosopher 's Stone '' column ) indicates the character was not in the film adaptation .
A twelve-step program is a set of  guiding सिद्धान्त ( स्वीकृत by सदस्यों as 'spiritual  principles , ' based on the approved literature ) outlining a course of action for recovery from , compulsion , or other behavioral problems .
Originally proposed by Alcoholics Anonymous ( AA ) as a method of recovery from alcoholism , the Twelve Steps were first published in the book Alcoholics Anonymous : The Story of How More Than One Hundred Men Have  बरामद इससे alcoholism in 1939  .
the विधि थी तब adapted  and became the foundation of other twelve-step programs .
As summarized by the American Psychological Association , the  प्रक्रम involves the following:
admitting that one can not control one 's  व्यसन or मजबूरी ;
recognizing a उच्चतर  power that can give strength ;
examining past errors with the help  of a प्रायोजक ( अनुभवी सदस्य  ) ;
making amends for  ये त्रुटियाँ  ;
सीखना to सजीव a नई  life with a new code of behavior ;
helping अन्य जो suffer  from the same addictions or compulsions .
Witness impeachment , in the law of evidence of the United States , is the process of calling into  सवाल the विश्वसनीयता  of an individual who is testifying in a trial .
The  संघीय नियम of प्रमाण contain  the rules governing impeachment in federal courts .
Party leaders and whips of the United  राज्य हाउस of  Representatives are elected by their respective parties in a closed-door caucus by secret ballot and are also known as floor leaders .
The U.S. House of Representatives does not officially use   the term `` Minority Leader '' although the media frequently do .
The House instead uses the terms `` Republican Leader '' or `` Democratic Leader ''  depending on जिससे पार्टी  holds a minority of seats .
The current House Majority Leader is Republican Eric  cantor , जबकि the वर्तमान  House Minority Leader is Democrat Nancy Pelosi .
The current House Majority Whip is Republican  केविन मैकार्थी  , while the current House Minority Whip is Democrat Steny Hoyer .
Following the outbreak of World War I in 1914  , the जर्मनी फौज खोली  the Western Front by first invading Luxembourg and Belgium , then gaining military control of important industrial regions in France .
The tide of the advance was dramatically turned with  the बैटल of the marne  .
Following the race to the sea , both sides dug in along a meandering line of fortified trenches , stretching from the North Sea to  the स्विस frontier साथ फ़्रांस  .
This line remained essentially  अपरिवर्तित  for most of the war .
Between 1915 and 1917 there  यहूद अनेक प्रमुख offensives  along this front .
The attacks employed massive artillery bombardments and massed infantry  अग्रिम  .
However , a  संयोजन of entrenchments  , machine gun nests , barbed wire , and artillery repeatedly inflicted severe casualties on the attackers and counterattacking defenders .
As a result , no significant  अग्रिम यहूद बना  .
Among the most costly of these offensives were the Battle of Verdun with a combined [ estimated ] 700,000 dead , the Battle of the Somme with  more than [ an estimated  ] million casualties , and the Battle of Passchendaele with roughly [ an estimated ] 600,000 casualties .
In an effort to break the deadlock , this front saw the introduction of new military technology , including poison  गैस , वायुयान और  tanks .
लकिन it थी तभी बाद  the adoption of improved tactics that some degree of mobility was restored .
The German  वसन्त अप्रिय of 1918 थी बना संभावित  by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk that marked the end of the conflict on the Eastern Front .
Using the recently-introduced infiltration tactics , the German armies advanced nearly to the west , which marked the deepest advance by either side since  1914 और बहुत nearly succeeded in  forcing a breakthrough .
In spite of the generally stagnant nature of  इस  front , this theater would prove decisive .
The inexorable advance of the Allied armies during the second half of 1918 persuaded the German commanders that defeat was inevitable , and the  सरकारी थी मजबूर to मुकदमा लिये  conditions of an armistice .
The terms of peace were agreed upon with the  हस्ताक्षर of the सन्धि  of Versailles in 1919 .
The following is a  सूची of पुनरावर्ती और नाबालिग वर्ण in  the Disney Channel Original Series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody .
These characters were regularly  घुमाया , प्रायः disappearing  for long periods during the series .
The following list of characters has been  sorted alphabetically  , by first name .
Some of the characters had no last name and most were commonly  referred to by उनके पहला नाम so इस  appeared to be the most logical method .
In the case of Chef Paolo ,  जो था no ज्ञात पहला  name , they have been listed by title .
The First Lady of the United States (  flotus ) is the होस्टेस  of the White House .
Because this position is traditionally filled by the wife of the President of the United States ,  the शीर्षक is सबसे प्रायः लागू to the बीवी  of a sitting president .
The current First Lady is Michelle  ओबामा .
After  उसके husband बराक ओबामा थी  re-elected on November 6 , 2012 , she is scheduled to serve until January 20 , 2017 .
Septic shock is a medical condition as a result of severe infection and sepsis , though the  microbe may be प्रणालीगत or स्थानीयकृत to a particular  site .
It can cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ( formerly  ज्ञात as अनेक अंग विफलता ) और मौत  .
Its most common victims are children ,  immunocompromised individuals , और  the elderly , as their immune systems can not deal with the infection as effectively as those of healthy adults .
Frequently , patients suffering from  सेप्टिक शॉक  are cared for in intensive care units .
The mortality rate from septic shock is  लगभग 25–50  % .
Kevin Brereton ( born February 20 , 1972 ) , better known by his stage name k-os ( ; `` chaos '' ) ,  is a कनाडाई rapper , सिंगर , songwriter और रिकार्ड निर्माता  .
His given name  may भी be cited  as Kheaven , a spelling he later adopted .
The alias `` k-os '' , spelled with a lower case `` k '' , was intended to be less  आक्रामक than the pseudonyms  of other rappers whose names were all upper case , such as KRS-One .
It is an acronym for `` Knowledge of Self , '' although in a later  इंटरव्यू he कहा कि it originally stood लिये ``  Kevin 's Original Sound . '' k-os ' music incorporates a wide variety of music genres , including rap , funk , rock , and reggae .
The lyrics frequently focus on promoting a `` positive message '' while at times expressing  आलोचना of मुख्यधारा हिप हॉप संस्कृति 's obsession साथ धन , कीर्ति  and glorification of violence .
A musician  as खूब as a निर्माता , k-os रै लिखा  and produced nearly every part of all four of his albums .
k-os usually performs  साथ a सजीव बैंड  , something that is uncommon in the hip hop genre .
He sometimes plays guitar and keyboard both  दौरान सजीव प्रदर्शन और  in the studio .
k-os received his first musical exposure with the  सिंगल `` musical essence  '' , released in 1993 .
बाद the रिलीज of उसके दूसरी सिंगल `` वृद्धि जैसे the सूर्य ''  in 1996 , he withdrew from the industry because he was dissatisfied with his musical style .
He reappeared briefly  in 1999 और released  his debut album Exit in 2002 .
The album received  धनात्मक समीक्षाएँ  but sold relatively few copies .
He released his  दूसरी एल्बम  Joyful Rebellion in 2004 , which received platinum status in Canada .
A third album , , was  released in 2006 और भी  went platinum .
His fourth album ,  यस  !
, थी released  in 2009 .
His fifth album BLack on BLonde  थी released in  2013 .
The official 2007  संस्करण of the  UCC .
Even  the गोपनीय अशिष्ट मसौदा  of the UCC were saved and published as a 10-volume set .
The Uniform Commercial Code ( UCC or the Code )  , पहला प्रकाशित in 1952 , is एक of a क्रमांक of वर्दी अधिनियमों कि  have been promulgated in conjunction with efforts to harmonize the law of sales and other commercial transactions in all 50 states within the United States of America .
Multi-pitch climbing is the ascent of climbing  रूट साथ एक or अधिक stops  at a belay station .
Each section of actual climbing  between stops at the belay  stations is called a pitch .
The leader ascends the pitch , placing gear and stopping to anchor  themselves to the belay  station .
The reason  लिये the stops can be  determined by choice , convention or necessity .
For  example:
The rope is too short to do the entire route in  एक  pitch ( necessity ) .
The  नेता रै चलाएं  out of protective gear ( necessity ) .
There is a  सुविधाजनक protectable कगार , or फिक्स्ड bolts  placed by previous climbers , at the location for a belay station ( convention ) .
the नेता chooses  to rest or exchange leads before the next section of the climb ( choice ) .
The general purpose of these stops is to allow the second to ascend to the point of the lead  climber जबकि collecting the सुरक्षात्मक गियर  from the route in the course of the lead climber 's ascent .
At the belay station , the  सुरक्षात्मक गियर is एकत्रित , संभवतः  exchanged to a new leader , and the leader of the next pitch ascends the route .
A diagram showing an I Formation on  ठोकर और a 4-3  Formation on defense
In American football , each team has  ग्यारह खिलाड़ी on the फ़ील्ड  at one time .
The specific role that a player takes on the field  is पुकारा उनके  position .
Under the modern rules of American football , teams are  अनुमत असीमित subsititutions  , that is teams may change any number of players after any play .
This has resulted in the development of  तीन `` platoons '' of खिलाड़ी , the ठोकर  ( the team with the ball , who is trying to score ) , the defense ( the team trying to prevent the other team from scoring , and to take the ball from them ) , and the special teams ( who play in kicking situations ) .
Within those platoons ,  विभिन्न विशिष्ट स्थितियाँ  exist depending on what the player 's main job is .
The Controlled Substances Act ( CSA ) was  enacted into विधि by the कॉंग्रेस of  the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 .
The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which  the manufacture , importation  , possession , use and distribution of certain substances is regulated .
The Act also served as the  नेशनल implementing विधान  for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs .
The legislation  निर्मित पाँच schedules ( classifications ) , साथ  varying qualifications for a substance to be included in each .
Two federal agencies , the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Food and Drug Administration , determine which substances are added to or removed from the various schedules , though the statute passed by Congress created the initial listing , and Congress has sometimes scheduled other substances through legislation such as the Hillory J. Farias and Samantha Reid Date-Rape Prevention Act of 2000 ,  जिससे लगाई गामा hydroxybutyrate in अनुसूची i . वर्गीकरण निर्णय हैं जरूरी to be बना on मापदण्ड सहित संभावित लिये  abuse ( an undefined term ) , currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States , and international treaties .
The Wayne Route 23 Transit Center is a New Jersey Transit park-and-ride  स्टेशन in वेन , नई जर्सी साथ the montclair-boonton लकीर कि provides बस सेवा to नई  York City and various other points in the area as well as Montclair-Boonton Line train service to New York , Hoboken , and intermediate points along the line between Hackettstown and Montclair State University .
It is located off of the southbound  गलियों of नई जर्सी रूट  23 on West Belt Road , near the interchange where Route 23 , Interstate 80 , and U.S. Route 46 meet , across from the Willowbrook Mall .
The station opened in January 2008  और रै 1,000 पार्किंग  spaces .
New Jersey Transit intends for this  संयुक्त रेल और बस स्टेशन to become an `` interceptor स्टेशन , ''  that will help relieve the habitual congestion at the West Belt Road Interchange , where the three major highways meet .
In addition , the construction of the station was meant to  भी आसानी the जमघट at कया थी तब रूट 23 पार्क & सवारी , a बस डिपो on रूट 23 उत्तर  that has since been renamed Mother 's Park & Ride , and the Willowbrook Mall Park & Ride ; the now-Mother 's site had limited parking while NJT was having trouble with overfull parking areas at Willowbrook .
The Wayne  township बस गैरेज  is located on the opposite side of Route 23 .
There has been a proposal to build a  पार्किंग डेक साथ another हजार  spots and develop the land at the station .
In addition to Montclair-Boonton  रेल , the पारगमन बीच  is served by the following New Jersey Transit bus lines:
75 to  न्यूर्क penn  Station and Butler
194 to Port Authority  बस टर्मिनल  and Butler/Newfoundland
198 to Port Authority Bus  टर्मिनल और विलियम paterson विश्वविद्यालयों
324 to Port Authority  और वेन  Route 23
748  to  Willowbrook Mall and Paterson
The at sign @ is also commonly called the at symbol , ampersat , apetail or commercial at in  english—and कम commonly a चौड़ी दायरा  of other terms .
The fact that there is no single word in English for the symbol has prompted some writers to use the French  arobase or स्पेनी और पुर्तगाली arroba—or to सिक्का नई शब्द ऐसे as asperand , ampersat—but  none of these has achieved wide currency .
Originally an accounting and  वाणिज्यिक चालान संक्षिप्त अर्थ `` at the रेट of '' ( e.g . 7 विजेट  @ $ 2 = $ 14 ) , it was not included on the keyboard of the earliest commercially successful typewriters , but was on at least one 1889 model and the very successful Underwood models from the `` Underwood No . 5 '' in 1900 onward .
It is  अभी universally शामिल  on computer keyboards .
In recent years ,  इसके अर्थ  has grown to include the sense of being `` located at , '' `` and , '' or `` directed at '' , especially in email addresses and social media , particularly Twitter .
The mark is  एनकोडेड  at .
The Catcher in  the rye is  a 1951 novel by J. D. Salinger .
Originally published  लिये वयस्कों , it रै चूंकि become लोकप्रिय साथ  adolescent readers for its themes of teenage angst and alienation .
it रै महरूम अनूदित  into almost all of the world 's major languages .
Around  250,000 नक़ल हैं बेची प्रत्येक  year with total sales of more than 65 million books .
The novel 's protagonist and  antihero , होल्डन caulfield ,  has become an icon for teenage rebellion .
The novel was included on Times 2005 list of the 100 best English-language novels written  चूंकि 1923 , और it थी नामित by आधुनिक पुस्तकालयों और इसके पाठक as एक of the 100 बेहतरीन  English-language novels of the 20th century .
It has been frequently challenged in the United States and other countries  लिये इसके उदार उपयोग of profanity  and portrayal of sexuality .
It also deals with complex issues of  पहचान , belonging , कनेक्शन  , and alienation .
skeletal  muscles homo sapiens
This is  a तालिका of मांसपेशियां  of the human anatomy .
There are approximately 642 skeletal muscles within the typical  इंसान , और लगभग प्रत्येक मांसपेशी constitutes एक भाग of a जोड़ी of एकसमान द्विपक्षीय मांसपेशियां  , found on both sides , resulting in approximately 320 pairs of muscles , as presented in this article .
nevertheless , the सटीक क्रमांक is मुश्किल to  define because different sources group muscles differently , e.g . regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles .
उदाहरण दायरा इससे  640 to 850 .
The muscles of the human body  can be categorized into a क्रमांक of समूह जिससे शामिल मांसपेशियां relating  to the head and neck , muscles of the torso or trunk , muscles of the upper limbs , and muscles of the lower limbs .
The action refers to the action of each muscle  इससे the मानक anatomical  position .
In other positions , other actions  may  be performed .
Bad Girls Club  ( bgc ) is an  American reality television series created by Jonathan Murray for the Oxygen television station .
The show centers on seven feisty and mischievous women with  अलग पृष्ठभूमि और personalities  , who have a number of psychological and behavioral problems .
They are introduced to the show off  उनके घातक बर्ताव और accomplish विशिष्ट  goals .
The cast , deemed `` bad girls '' , enjoy a luxurious lifestyle in a fine mansion for three  महीने ,  during which they must obey specified rules .
Their lives inside – and outside – of  the हाउस हैं  chronicled and recorded by the production team .
The Bad Girls Club is broadcast in five  देशों ( संयुक्त राज्य ,  Netherlands , Australia , Hungary , and Sweden ) .
It has received negative reviews from critics , who believe the show promotes violence by adolescent  दर्शक  .
Furthermore ,  अनेक डाल सदस्यों बना विवादास्पद  remarks which outraged many viewers .
The format of the show has  बदला इससे जल्दी सीज़न  .
If a `` bad girl '' breaks a rule , she is evicted from the show and , if it is early in the season  ,  replaced by a new `` bad girl '' .
There have been nine complete seasons of The Bad  लड़कियों क्लबों , साथ the दसवाँ ऋतु  currently airing .
The fourth season had the highest ratings in the show 's history , becoming its ``  भेदन  season '' .
There have been three  spin-offs of  The Bad Girls Club .
One of them , Love Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too , where  पास्ट डाल सदस्यों तलाश  true love , has gained high ratings .
Oxygen has also released a mobile game  , कॉमिक स्ट्रिप और merchandise  to promote the show .
Of the 92 contestants , Kerry  harvick ( of ऋतु एक ) थी a कामयाब देश  singer before the show .
tanisha थामस  ( of season two ) later hosted Oxygen 's OxygenLive !
and   the subsequent seasons of Love Games : Bad Girls Need Love Too .
Thomas , who has  महरूम उतावले the `` गॉडमदर '' to  all contestants , has her own television documentary entitled Tanisha Gets Married .
As of Season 8 she  's महरूम the मेजबान  of the reunion specials .
The Iowa Senate is the upper house of the  आयोवा सामान्य  Assembly .
There are 50 seats in the Iowa Senate , representing 50  single-member जिले आरपार  the state with populations of approximately 60,927 per constituency , .
Each Senate  ज़िला is रचित  of two House districts .
The Senate  meets at the आयोवा  State Capitol in Des Moines .
Unlike the lower house , the Iowa House of Representatives , Senators serve four-year terms ,  साथ हाफ of the सीनेट लड़खड़ाते लिये re-election  every two years .
There are no term  हद लिये the  Senate .
mechanical  repair
मेंटेनेंस , मरम्मत , और परिचालन ( mro ) or मेंटेनेंस , मरम्मत  , and overhaul involves fixing any sort of mechanical , plumbing or electrical device should it become out of order or broken ( known as repair , unscheduled or casualty maintenance ) .
It also includes performing routine actions which keep the device in working  अनुक्रम ( ज्ञात as अनुसूचित मेंटेनेंस ) or prevent ट्रबल  from arising ( preventive maintenance ) .
MRO may be defined as , `` All actions which have the objective of retaining or  restoring an मद in or to a राज्य in जिससे it can  perform its required function .
The actions include the combination of all technical  और सम्बन्धित प्रशासनिक  , managerial , and supervision actions . ''
MRO operations can be categorised by whether the product remains the property of the customer , i.e . a service is being offered , or whether the  उत्पाद is खरीदा by the reprocessing  organisation and sold to any customer wishing to make the purchase ( Guadette , 2002 ) .
In the former case it may be a backshop operation within a larger  संगठन or छोटी  operation .
The former of these represents a closed loop supply chain and usually has the scope of maintenance , repair or  of the उत्पाद  .
The latter of the categorisations is an open loop supply chain and is typified by  refurbishment  and remanufacture .
The main characteristic of the closed loop system is that the demand for a  उत्पाद is matched साथ  the supply of a used product .
Neglecting asset write-offs and exceptional activities the total population of the product between  the ग्राहक और the सेवा प्रदाता  remains constant .
Prince William , Duke of Cambridge ( William Arthur Philip Louis ; born 21 June 1982 ) , is the elder son of Charles , Prince of  वेल्स , और डायना  , Princess of Wales , and third-eldest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip , Duke of Edinburgh .
He is second in the line of succession , behind his father , to the thrones of sixteen independent sovereign states known as the Commonwealth realms : the United Kingdom , Canada , Australia , New  जीलैंड , जमैका , बारबाडोस , the बहामा , हरा , पापुआ नई गिनी , the सुलेमान आइलैंड्स , तुवालू  , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Belize , Antigua and Barbuda , and Saint Kitts and Nevis .
Prince William was  शिक्षित at चार स्कूलों in the संयुक्त किंगडम  and obtained a degree from the University of St Andrews .
He spent parts of a gap year in Chile , Belize , Tanzania , and  कीनिया जहाँ he रै जिया और holidayed  several times .
Prince William has also  लिया kiswahili  studies at universities in Kenya and Tanzania .
He was commissioned as a Lieutenant in the Blues and Royals Regiment of the Household Cavalry —serving with his brother Prince Harry —and , two years later , earned his wings by  completing पायलट प्रशिक्षण at royal एयर फ़ोर्स कॉलेज  Cranwell .
In 2009 , he transferred to the Royal Air Force , was promoted to Flight Lieutenant and underwent helicopter flying training in order  to become a full-time पायलट  with the Search and Rescue Force .
In 2010 , he completed his general and  special-to-type हेलीकाप्टर प्रशिक्षण और गई on to raf घाटी on no . 22 स्क्वाड्रन performing  co-pilot duties on board a Sea King search and rescue helicopter .
Prince William married  उसके longtime गर्लफ्रेंड , कैथरीन मिडलटन  , on 29 April 2011 at Westminster Abbey .
Hours prior to his wedding , Prince William was created Duke of  कैम्ब्रिज , अर्ल of strathearn , और सामन्त  Carrickfergus .
DeAndre Cortez Way ( born July  28 , 1990 ) , बेहतर ज्ञात by उसके स्टेज नाम soulja लड़के बताना 'em , or बस  Soulja Boy , is an American rapper , record producer , actor , and entrepreneur .
in सितंबर 2007  , his single `` Crank That ( Soulja Boy ) `` reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 .
the सिंगल थी initially  self-published on the internet , and it later became a number-one hit in the United States for seven non-consecutive weeks starting in September 2007 .
On  अगस्त 17 रास्ता  was listed at # 18 on the Forbes list of Hip-Hop Cash Kings of 2010 earning $ 7 million for that year .
Way has currently released three studio albums and one independent album : his debut studio album Souljaboytellem.com ( 2007 ) was  certified प्लेटिनम  by the RIAA .
However , his next two albums , iSouljaBoyTellem ( 2008 ) and The DeAndre Way ( 2010 ) did not  मैच the वाणिज्यिक कामयाबी of उसके डेब्यू , the  latter only selling 100,000 copies , despite the success of several singles across both albums , such as `` Kiss Me Thru the Phone `` and `` Turn My Swag On `` ( iSouljaBoyTellem ) and `` Pretty Boy Swag `` ( The DeAndre Way ) .
This was  मुख्यतः due to negotiation समस्याएं साथ interscope  Records which meant a limited amount of records were made available to the public .
As of 2011 , Way has confirmed he is working on his fourth studio album , entitled USA DRE ,  जिससे होगा be released  in 2013 .
The electron transport chain in the mitochondrion is the site of oxidative  phosphorylation in eukaryotes  .
The NADH and  succinate उत्पन्न in the साइट्रिक एसिड साईकिल  are oxidized , providing energy to power ATP synthase .
Photosynthetic electron transport chain of the  thylakoid झिल्ली  .
An electron transport chain (  इत्यादि ) युगल इलेक्ट्रॉन ट्रांसफ़र  between an electron donor ( such as NADH ) and an electron acceptor ( such as O2 ) with the transfer of H+ ions ( protons ) across a membrane .
The resulting  electrochemical प्रोटॉन अनुपात is प्रयुक्त to generate  chemical energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) .
Electron transport chains are the cellular mechanisms  प्रयुक्त लिये extracting उर्जा  from sunlight in photosynthesis and also from redox reactions , such as the oxidation of sugars ( respiration ) .
In chloroplasts , light drives the conversion of water to oxygen and NADP+ to NADPH with transfer of H+ ions  आरपार हरितलवक झिल्लियों  .
In mitochondria , it is the conversion of oxygen to  जल , nadh to naD+ और succinate to fumarate कि हैं  required to generate the proton gradient .
Electron transport chains are  प्रमुख साइट of असामयिक इलेक्ट्रॉन leakage to ऑक्सीजन  , generating superoxide and potentially resulting in increased oxidative stress .
Tramadol hydrochloride ( trademarked as Conzip , Ryzolt , Ultracet , Ultram in the USA ,  ralivia , zytram xl durella  { CR-100/200 mg } in Canada or Adolonta in Spain ) is a centrally acting synthetic analgesic used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain .
The drug has a wide range of applications , including treatment of rheumatoid arthritis , restless legs syndrome , motor neurone  बीमारी और लुपस  .
It was launched and marketed as Tramal by the German  फार्मास्युटिकल  company Grünenthal GmbH in 1977 .
Tramadol is a weak μ-opioid receptor agonist that also induces serotonin release  और inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine  .
tramadol is metabolized  to O-desmethyltramadol , a significantly more potent μ-opioid agonist .
Tramadol  और इसके प्रमुख metabolite ( s )  are distinguished from other more potent opioid agonists by relative selectivity for μ-opioid receptors .
Bernard Lawrence `` Bernie '' Madoff ( ;  born अप्रैल 29 , 1938 ) is an अमरीकी पूर्व  stockbroker , investment advisor , financier , and white collar criminal .
He is the former non-executive Chairman of  the नैस्डैक भण्डार मार्केट , और the  admitted operator of a Ponzi scheme that is considered to be the largest financial fraud in U.S. history .
Madoff founded the Wall Street firm Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC  in 1960 , और थी इसके अध्यक्ष जबतक उसके गिरफ़्तार  on December 11 , 2008 .
The firm was one of the top market maker businesses on Wall Street , which bypassed `` specialist '' firms by directly executing orders over the  काउंटर इससे खुदरा  brokers .
He employed at the firm his brother Peter as Senior Managing Director and  मुख्य अनुपालन अधिकारी ; पीटर रै चूंकि  been sentenced to 10 years in prison .
Peter 's daughter Shana Madoff as the firm 's rules and compliance officer and attorney , and his sons Andrew  और चिह्नित ( चिह्नित वचनबद्ध आत्महत्या by फांसी  exactly two years after his father 's arrest ) .
On December  10 , 2008 , madoff 's बेटे बताई अधिकारियों  that their father had confessed to them that the asset management unit of his firm was a massive Ponzi scheme , and quoted him as describing it as `` one big lie . ''
The following  दिन , एफबीआई एजेंटों गिरफ्तार  Madoff and charged him with one count of securities fraud .
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) had previously  conducted investigations into madoff  's business practices , but did not uncover the massive fraud .
In March 2009 , Madoff pleaded guilty to 11 federal felonies and admitted to turning his wealth management business into a massive Ponzi scheme that  झांसे हज़ारों of निवेशकों of अरबों  of dollars .
Madoff  कहा he began  the Ponzi scheme in the early 1990s .
However , federal investigators believe the fraud began as early as the 1970s , and those charged with recovering  the लापता धन मानना the निवेश आपरेशन  may never have been legitimate .
The amount missing from client accounts  , सहित fabricated  gains , was almost $ 65 billion .
The  court-appointed ट्रस्टी अनुमानित  actual losses to investors of $ 18 billion .
On June 29 , 2009 , he was sentenced to 150 years  in थाना , the  maximum allowed .
Administrative Professionals Day ( also known as Secretaries Day or Admin  दिन ) is an unofficial धर्मनिरपेक्ष अवकाश observed in अनेक देशों  to recognize the work of secretaries , administrative assistants , receptionists , and other administrative support professionals .
In North America , it is  मनाये on the बुधवार  of the last full week of April ( April 24 in 2013 ) .
In France it is celebrated on the third Thursday in  अप्रैल ( अप्रैल 18  in 2013 ) .
In Australia it is  मनाये on the  first Friday in May
A quasi-judicial body is an entity such as an arbitrator or tribunal board  , generally of a पब्लिक प्रशासनिक एजेंसी , जिससे रै शक्तियां और प्रक्रियाओं resembling those of a अदालत of विधि or न्यायधीश ,  and which is obligated to objectively determine facts and draw conclusions from them so as to provide the basis of an official action .
Such  क्रियाएँ हैं समर्थ to उपाय a हालात or थोपने विधिक दंड , और may affect the विधिक अधिकारों , कर्तव्य or privileges of विशिष्ट पार्टियों .
स्मारक of tycho  Brahe and Johannes Kepler in Prague
Tycho Brahe ( 14 December 154624  अक्तूबर 1601 ) , born tyge ottesen ब्राहे  , was a Danish nobleman known for his accurate and comprehensive astronomical and planetary observations .
He was born in Scania , then part of Denmark  , अभी भाग of modern-day  Sweden .
Tycho was well  ज्ञात in उसके आजीवन  as an astronomer and alchemist .
In his De nova stella ( On the new  स्टार ) of 1573 , he refuted  the Aristotelian belief in an unchanging celestial realm .
His precise measurements indicated that `` new stars , '' ( stellae novae , now known as supernovae ) in particular that of 1572 ,  lacked  the parallax expected in sub-lunar phenomena , and were therefore not `` atmospheric '' tailless comets as previously believed , but were above the atmosphere and moon .
Using similar measurements he showed that comets were also not atmospheric phenomena , as previously  विचार , और जरूर pass through the माना `` अपरिवर्तनीय  '' celestial spheres .
As an astronomer , Tycho worked to combine what he saw as the geometrical benefits of the Copernican system with the philosophical benefits of the Ptolemaic system into his own model of the  ब्रह्मांड , the tychonic  system .
Furthermore , he was the last  of the प्रमुख नग्न नजर खगोलशास्त्रियों , working  without telescopes for his observations .
Tycho Brahe was  granted an एस्टेट on the द्वीप of hven और the funding to निर्माण the uraniborg  , an early research institute , where he built large astronomical instruments and took many careful measurements , and later Stjerneborg , underground , when he discovered that his instruments in the former were not sufficiently steady .
On the  द्वीप ( on जिससे he demonstrated निरंकुश अक्षर  and behavior toward the residents ) he founded manufactories such as paper-making to provide material for printing his results .
After disagreements with the new Danish king Christian IV in 1597 , he was invited by the Bohemian king and Holy Roman emperor Rudolph II  to प्राग , जहाँ he became the आधिकारिक  imperial astronomer .
He  निर्मित the  new observatory at Benátky nad Jizerou .
Here , from 1600 until his death in 1601 , he was assisted by Johannes Kepler who later used Tycho 's  खगोलीय आंकड़ा to develop कॅप्लर  's laws of planetary motion .
Guro District (  guro-gu ) is a ज़िला of  Seoul , South Korea , which was separated from Yeongdeungpo District on April 1 , 1980 .
Located in the southwestern part of the city , where besides Yangcheon District and Geumcheon District Guro District has an important position as a transport link which contains railroads , land  रूट इससे the  rest of Seoul to the south of the country .
The Gyeongbu and Gyeongin railway   lines connect Seoul to Busan and Incheon .
In  जोड , सियोल  Metropolitan Subway lines 1 , 2 , and 7 , and major highways intersect in Guro District .
The name Guro originates  इससे the लेजेंड कि नौ (  ) old men ( Korean : ro ) enjoyed longevity in the district .
A  डिजिटल औद्योगिक  complex is located in Guro District .
The Guro Digital Industrial Complex , which played a leading industrial role mainly with textile manufacturing , dressmaking and other labour-intensive industries in 1967 , has been  rapidly बदला into an it औद्योगिक जटिल  .
This complex played a pivotal  भूमिका in the आर्थिक विकास of the दक्षिण कोरियाई 's विकास era ,  referred to as the `` Miracle on the Han River `` , and also contributed 10 percent of national export in the 1970s .
Twenty-one  प्रतिशत of the कुल क्षेत्रफल  of Guro District is a restricted zone to be used as a greenbelt with the only arboretum in Seoul .
The zone is changing into a lively district as large labour-intensive factories are moving from the area and the  परिषद is विकासशील कया it शर्तें इसके चार zones  .
An `` e-government `` system based  on इस hosted the अंतरराष्ट्रीय  e-participation forum on February 7–9 , 2007 , with the participation of more than thirty-seven countries .
The  फ़ोरम थी शुभारम्भ साथ the थीम `` promoting लोकतंत्र और क्षेत्रीय विकास '' और twenty-five mayors सहित आंद्रे santini  ( Issy-les-Moulineaux , France ) , Kevin Foy ( Chapel Hill , US ) , Apirak Kosayothin ( Bangkok , Thailand ) , Uvais Mohamed Emthiyas ( Colombo , Sri Lanka ) , and world experts such as Dr William H. Dutton ( Director of Oxford Internet Institute at the University of Oxford , UK ) and Dr Ari-Veiko Anttiroiko ( professor at the University of Tampere , Finland ) participated in the forum .
The Guro  घोषणा , अपनाया दौरान the फ़ोरम , aims to नियत up a पोर्टल साईट लिये  e-government development and to establish a concrete project in order to bridge the digital divide among the world 's cities .
This  अभ्यास  has been recognised for providing a new important step in the development of e-democracy .
The e-participation forum was a key factor for Guro to play the leading role in bridging the digital divide among cities , to provide I.T . enterprises located in Guro Digital Industrial Complex the opportunity to launch  into the अंतरराष्ट्रीय मार्केट  , to improve its image and become a global leader to concrete e-democracy .
the  international e-participation forum on February 7–9 , 2007
A wonton ( also spelled wantan , wanton , or wuntun in transcription from Cantonese ;  मंदारिन : húndùn  ) is a type of dumpling commonly found in a number of Chinese cuisines .
Many people were involved in the  आविष्कार of रेडियो  as we now know it .
Several possible methods of wireless communication were considered , including inductive and capacitive induction and transmission  through the मैदान , however the विधि प्रयुक्त लिये रेडियो  today exclusively involves the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves .
After early speculation on  the विषय , प्रायोगिक कार्य on the कनेक्शन between विद्युत और  magnetism began around 1820 with the work of Hans Christian Ørsted and continued with the work of André-Marie Ampère , Joseph Henry , and Michael Faraday .
These investigations  culminated in the पूरा सिद्धान्त  of electromagnetism developed by James Clerk Maxwell .
This theory  वर्णित the सैद्धांतिक आधार of the  propagation of electromagnetic waves .
After Maxwell 's theory was  प्रकाशित अनेक लोगों experimented  with wireless communication , some intentionally using Maxwell 's theory some not .
It is considered likely that the first intentional transmission of a  सिग्नल by अर्थात् of इलेक्ट्रोमैग्नेटिक  waves was performed by David Edward Hughes around 1880 , although this was considered to be induction at the time .
The first systematic and unequivocal transmission of EM waves was performed by Heinrich  रुडॉल्फ हर्ट्ज़ और वर्णित in papers  published in 1887 and 1890 .
Hertz famously considered these  परिणाम as होने of  little practical value .
After Hertz 's work many people were involved in the development of components and theory involved with  the हस्तांतरण और  reception of electromagnetic waves .
Others , notably Guglielmo Marconi , were concerned with practical improvements and the commercial  अनुप्रयोग  of radio to wireless telegraphy .
Later on Reginald A. Fessenden became  the पहला to  send an audio signal by means of electromagnetic waves .
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a  कमियां of विटामिन c ,  which is required for the synthesis of collagen in humans .
The chemical name for vitamin C , ascorbic acid  ,  is derived from the Latin name of scurvy , scorbutus , which also provides the adjective scorbutic ( `` of , characterized by or having to do with scurvy '' ) .
Scurvy often presents itself initially as symptoms of malaise and lethargy , followed by formation  of  spots on the skin , spongy gums , and bleeding from the mucous membranes .
Spots are most  abundant on the जांघों  and legs , and a person with the ailment looks pale , feels depressed , and is partially immobilized .
As scurvy advances , there can be open , suppurating wounds , loss of teeth , jaundice ,  ज्वर , न्यूरोपैथी और मौत  .
Scurvy  थी at एक समय आम among sailors , pirates और अन्य सवार जहाजों at समुद्र longer than perishable  fruits and vegetables could be stored ( subsisting instead only on cured and salted meats and dried grains ) and by soldiers similarly deprived of these foods for extended periods .
It was described by Hippocrates ( c. 460 BC–c .  380 bc ) , और हर्बल cures लिये स्कर्वी have  been known in many native cultures since prehistory .
स्कर्वी थी एक of the limiting कारकों  of marine travel , often killing large numbers of the passengers and crew on long-distance voyages .
This became  a significant  issue in Europe from the beginning of the modern era in the Age of Discovery in the 15th century , continuing to play a significant role through World War I in the 20th century .
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a  nutritional कमियां , जबतक the अलगाव of विटामिन  C and direct evidence of its link to scurvy in 1932 , numerous theories and treatments were proposed , often on little or no experimental data .
This inconsistency is attributed to the lack of  विटामिन c as a पृथक अवधारणा  , an inability to reliably link different foods ( notably present in fresh citrus , watercress , and organ meat ) to scurvy .
An additional concept required to understand scurvy was the  degradation of विटामिन c by एक्सपोज़र to एयर और तांबे और  other transition metal salts such as those of iron , thus changing the links of foods to scurvy over time .
Treatment by fresh food , particularly citrus  फल , थी periodically  implemented , as it had been since antiquity .
However until  the 1930s , उपचार  was inconsistent , with many ineffective treatments used into the 20th century .
It was a Scottish surgeon in the Royal Navy , James Lind who first proved it could be treated with citrus fruit in  प्रयोग he वर्णित in उसके 1753 किताब , a treatise of the स्कर्वी , हालांकि उसके  advice was not implemented by the Royal Navy for several decades .
In infants , scurvy  is sometimes referred to as barlow 's बीमारी  , named after Sir Thomas Barlow , a British physician who described it .
however , barlow 's बीमारी  may also refer to mitral valve prolapse .
अन्य eponyms  for scurvy include Moeller 's disease and Cheadle 's disease .
Scurvy does not occur in most  पशु क्युकी वे can synthesize उनके  own vitamin C .
However , humans and other higher primates ( the simians - monkeys  और apes - और tarsiers ) , गिनी  pigs , most or all bats , and some species of birds and fish lack an enzyme ( L-gulonolactone oxidase ) necessary for such synthesis and must obtain vitamin C through their diet .
Vitamin C is widespread in plant tissues , with  विशेषकर ऊँची एकाग्रता occurring in citrus  fruits ( oranges , lemons , limes , grapefruits ) , tomatoes , potatoes , cabbages , and green peppers .
Iron is a  रासायनिक तत्व साथ the प्रतीक  Fe ( from ) and atomic number 26 .
It is a metal in the  पहला परिवर्तन  series .
It is  the सबसे आम तत्व  ( by mass ) forming the planet Earth as a whole , forming much of Earth 's outer and inner core .
It is the  चौथी सबसे आम  element in the Earth 's crust .
Iron 's very common presence in rocky planets like Earth is due to its abundant production as a result of  संलयन in high-mass  stars , where the production of nickel-56 ( which decays to the most common isotope of iron ) is the last nuclear fusion reaction that is exothermic .
This causes radioactive nickel to become the last element to be produced before collapse  of a सुपरनोवा लीड to the विस्फोटक कार्यक्रम कि scatter इस precursor  radionuclide of iron abundantly into space .
Like other group 8 elements , iron exists in a wide range of oxidation states , −2 to +6 , although +2 and  +3 हैं the सबसे आम  .
Elemental  आयरन occurs in meteoroids और अन्य कम ऑक्सीजन  environments , but is reactive to oxygen and water .
Fresh iron surfaces appear lustrous silvery-gray , but oxidize in normal air to give  hydrated आयरन आक्साइड , commonly ज्ञात  as rust .
Unlike many other  धातुओं जिससे रूप passivating ऑक्साइड परतों , आयरन आक्साइड  occupy more volume than iron metal , and thus iron oxides flake off and expose fresh surfaces for corrosion .
Iron metal has been used since ancient times , though copper  alloys , जिससे have निम्नतर melting temperatures  , were used first in history .
Pure iron is soft (   softer than aluminium ) , but is unobtainable by smelting .
The material is significantly hardened and strengthened by impurities from the  smelting प्रक्रम , ऐसे as कार्बन  .
A certain  proportion of कार्बन (  between 0.002 % and 2.1 % ) produces steel , which may be up to 1000 times harder than pure iron .
Crude iron metal is produced in blast  furnaces , जहाँ अयस्क is घटाया  by coke to pig iron , which has a high carbon content .
Further refinement  साथ ऑक्सीजन reduces the कार्बन  content to the correct proportion to make steel .
Steels and low carbon iron alloys with other metals ( alloy steels ) are by far the most  आम धातुओं in औद्योगिक उपयोग , due to उनके  great range of desirable properties and the abundance of iron .
Iron chemical compounds , which include ferrous and ferric  यौगिकों , have  many uses .
आयरन ऑक्साइड मिश्रित साथ एल्युमिनियम चूर्ण  can be ignited to create a thermite reaction , used in welding and purifying ores .
It forms binary compounds with the  हैलोजन्स  and the chalcogens .
Among its organometallic compounds is  ferrocene , the पहला  sandwich compound discovered .
Iron plays an important role in biology , forming complexes with molecular oxygen in hemoglobin and myoglobin ; these  दो यौगिकों  are common oxygen transport proteins in vertebrates .
Iron is  भी the मेटल प्रयुक्त at the क्रियाशील साईट  of many important redox enzymes dealing with cellular respiration and oxidation and reduction in plants and animals .
The Blue Cross Blue Shield  संघ ( bcbsa ) is a  federation of 38 separate health insurance organizations and companies in the United States .
Combined , they directly or  indirectly provide स्वास्थ्य बीमे  to over 99 million Americans .
The history of Blue  क्रॉस तिथियाँ वापस to 1929 , जबकि  the history of Blue Shield dates to 1939 .
The Blue Cross Association dates back to 1960 , while its Blue  शील्ड बंटवारा थी निर्मित  in 1948 .
The two organizations  मिलाया in 1982 , forming  the current association .
A potato chip ( known as a chip in American , Australian , New Zealand , Canadian , Singaporean , Hong Kong , South African and Jamaican English ; as a crisp in British English and Hiberno-English , and as either a chip or wafer in  भारतीय अंग्रेज़ी ) is a पतला टुकड़ा of आलू  that is deep fried or baked until crunchy .
Potato chips are commonly served as an appetizer , side dish  , or स्नैक .
The basic chips are  पकाया और salted ; अतिरिक्त  varieties are manufactured using various flavorings and ingredients including seasonings , herbs , spices , cheeses , and artificial additives .
`` Crisps '' , however , may also refer to many different types of savory snack products sold in the United Kingdom and Ireland , some made from potato , but may  भी be बना इससे मक्का , tapioca or  other cereals .
An example of these kinds of  savory स्नैक्स is  Monster Munch .
Potato chips  हैं a predominant भाग of the स्नैक खाना  market in English-speaking countries and numerous other Western nations .
The global potato  चिप मार्केट उत्पन्न कुल revenues  of US $ 16.4 billion in 2005 .
इस accounted लिये 35.5 % of  the total savory snacks market in that year ( US $ 46.1 billion ) .
Henry Clay , Sr. ( April 12 , 1777 – June 29 , 1852 ) was a lawyer , politician and skilled orator who  represented केंटकी in दोनो the सीनेट  and in the House of Representatives .
He served three different terms as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives and was also Secretary of State from  1825 to 1829  .
He lost his  अभियान  for president in 1824 , 1832 and 1844 .
Clay was a  प्रबल फिगर in दोनो the  First and Second Party systems .
As a  अग्रणी युद्ध हॉक in 1812 , he favored  war with Britain and played a significant role in leading the nation to war in the War of 1812 .
In 1824 he ran for president and lost , but threw  उसके चुनावी मत to जॉन क्विंसी एडम्स , जो बना उसे सचिव  of state as the Jacksonians denounced what they considered a `` corrupt bargain . ''
He ran and lost again in 1832 and 1844 as the candidate of the Whig  पार्टी , जिससे he संस्थापित और प्रायः  dominated .
Clay was the foremost proponent of the  अमरीकी प्रणाली , लड़ लिये an बढ़ाएँ in tariffs to फोस्टर  industry in the United States , the use of federal funding to build and maintain infrastructure , and a strong national bank .
He opposed the  annexation of टेक्सास ,  fearing it would inject the slavery issue into politics .
Clay also opposed the Mexican-American War and the `` Manifest  नियति `` नीति of डेमोक्रेट , जिससे लागत उसे मत in  the close 1844 election .
Dubbed the `` Great Pacificator  , '' मिट्टी brokered महत्वपूर्ण  compromises during the Nullification Crisis and on the slavery issue .
As part of the `` Great Triumvirate `` or `` Immortal Trio , '' along with his colleagues Daniel Webster and John C. Calhoun , he was instrumental in formulating the Missouri  सुलह of 1820 और the  Compromise of 1850 .
He was viewed  as the प्राथमिक प्रतिनिधि  of Western interests in this group , and was given the names `` Henry of the West '' and `` The Western Star . ''
A plantation owner  , मिट्टी आयोजित स्लेव  during his lifetime but freed them in his Will .
Abraham Lincoln , the Whig leader in  इलिनोइस , थी a ग्रेट admirer of  Clay , saying he was `` my ideal of a great man . ''
Lincoln  wholeheartedly समर्थित  Clay 's economic programs .
In 1957 , a Senate Committee selected Clay as one of the five greatest U.S . Senators ,  साथ साथ डेनियल वेबस्टर , जॉन C. calhoun  , Robert La Follette , and Robert Taft .
BJ 's Wholesale Club , Inc. , commonly referred to simply as BJ 's , is a membership-only warehouse club chain operating on the United States East Coast ,  as खूब as in the राज्य  of Ohio .
The company is ranked # 232  on सौभाग्य पत्रिका 's 2010 लिस्टिंग  of America 's 500 largest public corporations .
The Wizard of Oz , known during his reign as The Great and Powerful Oz , is the epithet of Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman  henkel emmannuel ambroise diggs , a fictional अक्षर in the जमीन of oz ,  created by American author L. Frank Baum .
The character was further popularized by the  क्लासिक 1939 फिल्म  , wherein his full name is not mentioned .
Kristinia Jamie DeBarge ( ; born March 8 , 1990 ) is an American singer ,  songwriter ,  dancer and actress .
She  पहला appeared on नेशनल टेलीविज़न  in 2003 as a contestant on the American Idol spin-off , American Juniors .
In 2009 , DeBarge signed a contract with the Island Records department Sodapop , releasing her debut album Exposed in  जुलाई of the  same year .
The first single , `` Goodbye `` , reached the top 20  in the us और  Canada .
The lead single ( `` Cry Wolf ''  ) इससे उसके बेनाम sophomore  album was released on September 27 , 2012 .
The Hawaii Warriors football team represents the University of Hawaiʻi at  mānoa in ncaa प्रभाग  I FBS college football .
The team  is coached  by Norm Chow .
It was part of the Western Athletic Conference  जबतक जुलाई 2012 , जब the टोली  joined the Mountain West Conference .
the हवाई योद्धाओं यहूद the तीसरा non-aq टोली to खेल  in a BCS bowl game ; losing to Georgia 41–10 in the Sugar Bowl on January 1 , 2008 in New Orleans , Louisiana .
Marvin Gaye ( April 2 , 1939April 1 , 1984 ) , born Marvin Pentz Gay , Jr. , was an American  singer-songwriter और संगीतकार .
Gaye helped to shape the sound of Motown Records in the 1960s with a string  of हिट्स सहित `` कैसा मीठी it is ( to be loved by तुम ) `` और `` i सुना it through the grapevine `` और duet रिकार्डिंग साथ मरियम  Wells and Tammi Terrell , later earning the titles `` Prince of Motown '' and `` Prince of Soul '' .
During the 1970s , Gaye recorded the concept albums What 's Going On and Let 's Get It On and became among  the पहला कलाकारों in motown to ब्रेक दूर इससे the बागडोर of इसके  production company .
Gaye 's later recordings influenced several R  & b subgenres  such as quiet storm and neo-soul .
Following a period in Europe under a tax exile in the early 1980s ,  gaye released the 1982 ग्रैमी award-winning  hit `` Sexual Healing `` and the Midnight Love album .
Since his death in 1984 ,  gaye रै महरूम मरणोपरांत सम्मानित by अनेक संस्थानों ,  including the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame .
Location of Chernobyl  नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र
The abandoned  नगर of pripyat साथ  Chernobyl plant in the distance
Abandoned housing blocks  in pripyat
The Chernobyl disaster ( , Chornobylska Katastrofa – Chornobyl Catastrophe ) was a catastrophic nuclear accident that  occurred on 26 अप्रैल 1986 at the chernobyl नाभिकीय शक्ति संयंत्र in युक्त  ( then officially the Ukrainian SSR ) , which was under the direct jurisdiction of the central authorities of the Soviet Union .
An explosion and fire released large  quantities of रेडियोसक्रिय अणु into  the atmosphere , which spread over much of the western USSR and Europe .
The Chernobyl disaster is widely considered to have been the worst nuclear power plant accident in history , and is one of only two classified as a level 7 event on the International Nuclear Event Scale ( the other being the  Fukushima  Daiichi nuclear disaster in 2011 ) .
The battle to contain the contamination and  avert a वृहद प्रलय  ultimately involved over 500,000 workers and cost an estimated 18 billion rubles .
The official Soviet casualty count of 31 deaths has  महरूम विवादित , और long-term प्रभाव ऐसे  as cancers and deformities are still being accounted for .
Mrs. Claus says goodbye to her husband as he  सेट बंद on उसके यात्रा  in this 1919 postcard
Mrs. Claus is the wife of Santa  क्लॉस , the क्रिसमस  gift-bringer in North American and European Christmas tradition .
She is known for making  कुकीज़ साथ the elves और  preparing toys with her husband Santa Claus .
Her first name is a mystery , though she has  महरूम referred to as मरियम , जेसिका , layla  , Annette , Heidi , or Martha .
HijackThis ( also  hijackthis or hjt ) is an खोलें सोर्स enumerating  tool for Microsoft Windows originally created by Merijn Bellekom , and later sold to Trend Micro .
The program is notable for targeting browser-hijacking methods ,  बल्कि than relying on a डेटाबेस  of known spyware .
It scans a user 's computer quickly ,  और प्रदर्शक ब्राउजर  hijacking locations , showing what entries are there .
HijackThis is used primarily for diagnosis of browser hijacking , as uninformed use of its removal facilities can  कारण significant तन्त्र क्षति  to a computer .
HijackThis does not remove or detect spyware ; it lists most common  स्थितियाँ जहाँ ब्राउजर hijacking  activity can occur .
Browser hijacking can cause malware to be  संस्थापित on a कंप्यूटर  .
On February 16 , 2012 ,  ट्रेंड सूक्ष्म released the hijackthis  source code as open source and it is now available on the SourceForge site .
Saddle Creek Records is an  अमरीकी रिकार्ड लेबल आधारित  in Omaha , Nebraska .
Started as a college class project on entrepreneurship , the label was founded by Mike Mogis and Justin Oberst in 1993  ( as lumberjack रिकॉर्ड  ) .
Mogis soon turned over his role in the company to  robb  Nansel .
The label is named after Saddle Creek Road , a street that cuts through the east side of midtown Omaha , and the  beginnings of a झाँकी जिनकी सदस्यों शामिल conor oberst ( तब a सोलो कलाकार , फिलहाल of  Bright Eyes , Conor Oberst and the Mystic Valley Band , Desaparecidos and Monsters of Folk ) , Tim Kasher ( then of Slowdown Virginia , currently of Cursive and The Good Life ) , and others .
collectively , वे यहूद  known unofficially as the `` Creekers '' .
Saddle Creek first appeared in print on a show flyer  ,  offering to `` Spend an evening with Saddle Creek '' ( later to be the title of the label 's DVD . )
Saddle Creek  became an incorporated एंटिटी as a परिणाम  of a class project on entrepreneurship .
Distribution is handled  by the वैकल्पिक वितरण  Alliance , which is under the Warner Music Group umbrella .
Saddle Creek Records continues to be the flagship label of a style of music called `` The  ओमाहा ध्वनि `` , characterized  by a slight country twang .
This is increasingly inaccurate  , हालांकि , साथ the वृद्धि of अधिक  electronic sounds such as those favored by The Faint and Broken Spindles .
The  eclectic ध्वनि of काठी क्रीक 's disparate  member bands is somewhat explained by their history ; a number of the original members of the label attended grade school together .
A `` sister label '' , of sorts , to  काठी क्रीक  is Team Love , started by Conor Oberst in 2004 .
The label opened arms to their first bands not based in Omaha in 2001 with releases by Now  it 's  Overhead and Sorry About Dresden .
Other non-Nebraskan artists followed , including Los Angeles 's Rilo Kiley , Eric  bachmann ( formerly नेता of archers of loaf और कुटिल उंगलियाँ  from North Carolina ) , Georgie James ( Washington D.C. ) , Two Gallants ( San Francisco ) , and most recently Tokyo Police Club ( Toronto ) .
In 2005 , Spend an Evening with Saddle Creek , a  वृत्तचित्र detailing the पहला टेन सालो of the  record label 's history , was released .
The DVD features extensive interviews with the  काठी क्रीक bands ,  archival footage , and rare live performances .
On June 8 , 2007 , the label opened their own music  स्थान नामित slowdown ( बाद the  group Slowdown Virginia ) , located in downtown Omaha , Nebraska .
The following is a  सूची of एपीसोड लिये  the television show Full House .
In total , there were 192 episodes filmed for the show over the course of its eight  सीज़न , इससे 1987  to 1995 .
Full  हाउस is a हालात  comedy which chronicles a widowed father 's struggles of raising his three young daughters and the lives that they have touched .
The patriarch of the family , Danny ( Bob Saget ) , invites his brother-in-law Jesse ( John Stamos ) and his best friend Joey  ( डेव coulier ) , to सहायता उठाएँ उसके children ( candace cameron , jodie sweetin , और मरियम kate/ashley olsen  ) , after his wife was killed during an automobile accident involving a drunk driver .
After  एपीसोड 88 और  89 , Jesse marries Becky ( Lori Loughlin ) , and they move into the attic .
Then , after episodes 104 and 105 , Becky  और जेसी have जुड़वा लड़कों नामित nicky और एलेक्स (  Daniel and Kevin Renteria/Blake and Dylan Tuomy-Wilhoit ) .
The series ends with episode 192 , `` Michelle Rides Again Part 2 '' , when Michelle loses her  मेमोरी और the परिवार कोशिशें to restore  it .
Notice of Stamp  अधिनियम  of 1765 in Newspaper
American newspapers reacted  to the स्टैम्प अधिनियम साथ गुस्सा और पूर्वानुमान  of the demise of journalism .
The Stamp Act 1765 ( short title Duties in American Colonies Act 1765 ; 5 George III , c. 12 ) imposed a direct tax by the British Parliament specifically on the colonies  of अंग्रेजों अमेरिका , और it जरूरी कि अनेक मुद्रित सामग्री in the colonies be उत्पादित on stamped पेपर उत्पादित in लंदन  , carrying an embossed revenue stamp .
These printed materials were  विधिक दस्तावेज़ , मैगज़ीन , अखबारों  and many other types of paper used throughout the colonies .
Like previous taxes , the stamp tax had to be paid in valid British currency , not in  औपनिवेशिक पेपर धन  .
The purpose of the tax was to help pay for troops stationed in North America after the British  विजय in the सात सालो  ' War .
The British government felt that the colonies were the primary beneficiaries of this military presence , and should pay at  तनिक a portion of the  expense .
The Stamp Act met great  प्रतिरोध in the  colonies .
The  colonies भेजा no प्रतिनिधि  to Parliament , and therefore had no influence over what taxes were raised , how they were levied , or how they would be spent .
Many colonists considered it a violation of their rights as Englishmen to be taxed without their  सहमति —consent कि तभी the औपनिवेशिक  legislatures could grant .
Colonial assemblies sent petitions and  विरोध .
The Stamp Act Congress held in  नई यॉर्क  City , reflecting the first significant joint colonial response to any British measure , also petitioned Parliament and the King .
Local protest groups , led by colonial merchants and landowners , established connections through correspondence that created a  ढीला गठबन्धन कि विस्तारित  from New England to Georgia .
Protests and demonstrations initiated  by the बेटे  of Liberty often turned violent and destructive as the masses became involved .
Very soon all stamp tax distributors were intimidated into resigning their  आयोग  , and the tax was never effectively collected .
Opposition to the Stamp Act was  नहीं  limited to the colonies .
British merchants and manufacturers , whose exports  to the colonies यहूद threatened by औपनिवेशिक आर्थिक समस्याएं  exacerbated by the tax , also pressured Parliament .
The Act was repealed on March 18 , 1766 as a matter of expedience , but  पार्लियामेंट  affirmed its power to legislate for the colonies “in all cases whatsoever” by also passing the Declaratory Act .
There  followed a श्रेणी of नई कर और regulations  , likewise opposed by the colonists .
the एपीसोड निभाई  a major role in defining the grievances and enabling the organized colonial resistance that led to the American Revolution in 1775 .
pt-105 underway  .
PT boats were a variety of torpedo-armed fast attack craft used by the  संयुक्त राज्य नेवी in संसार युद्ध  II to attack larger surface ships .
`` PT '' is the US hull classification symbol  लिये `` पैट्रोल torpedo ''  .
The PT boat squadrons were  nicknamed `` the मच्छर बेड़े  '' .
The  जापानी पुकारा  them `` Devil Boats '' .
The original pre– World War I torpedo boats were  designed साथ `` विस्थापन  '' hulls .
They displaced up to  300 टन और the शीर्ष  speed was .
the pt नौकाएँ प्रयुक्त in संसार  War II were built using the planing -type hull form developed for racing boats .
They were much smaller ( 30–75  टन ) और तेज़ ( 35–40  knots ) .
Both types were designed to strike at larger warships with torpedoes , using  अपेक्षाकृत ऊँची गति to मिलेंगी बंद  , and small size to avoid being spotted and hit by gunfire .
They were much less expensive than  विशाल  warships .
PT boats were much faster ,  छोटी , और सस्ता than  conventional ( displacement hull ) vessels .
During World War II , American PT boats engaged  दुश्मन destroyers और numerous अन्य सतह  craft , ranging from small boats to large supply ships .
PT boats also operated as gunboats against  दुश्मन छोटी शिल्प  , such as armored barges used by the Japanese forces for inter-island transport .
Good Friday is a religious  अवकाश observed primarily by ईसाइयों  commemorating the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and his death at Calvary .
The holiday is observed  दौरान पावन सप्ताह as भाग of the paschal triduum  on the Friday preceding Easter Sunday , and may coincide with the Jewish observance of Passover .
It is also  ज्ञात  as Holy Friday , Great Friday , Black Friday , or Easter Friday , though the latter properly refers to the Friday in Easter week .
Based on the details of the Canonical gospels , the Crucifixion of Jesus was  सबसे संभावित to have महरूम on a शुक्रवार ( the  day before the Sabbath ) ( ) .
The estimated year of the Crucifixion is AD 33 , by two different  समूह , और originally  as AD 34 by Isaac Newton via the differences between the Biblical and Julian calendars and the crescent of the moon .
A third method , using a completely different astronomical approach based on a lunar Crucifixion  अंधेरा और ग्रहण मॉडल ( सतत साथ apostle पीटर  's reference to a `` moon of blood '' in Acts 2:20 ) , points to Friday , 3 April AD 33 .
The Great Basin  is the largest  area of endorheic watersheds in North America .
It is  विख्यात लिये दोनो इसके arid शर्तें और  its Basin and range topography that varies from the North American low point at Badwater Basin to the highest point of the contiguous United States , less than away at the summit of Mount Whitney .
The region spans several physiographic divisions ,  biomes / ecoregions , और  deserts .
Raster  may refer  to:
रास्टर ग्राफिक्स  , graphical techniques using arrays of pixel values
Raster graphics editor  , a  computer program
Raster scan , the pattern  of चित्र readout , हस्तांतरण , भंडार , और पुनर्निर्माण  in television and computer images
rasterisation , or rasterization ,  conversion of a vector image to a raster image
Raster image processor , or RIP , a component of a printing system  कि  performs rasterisation
Raster  इन्टरनेट ,  a computer interrupt signal
Raster  to वेक्टर , an  image conversion process
Raster  बार , an प्रभाव  used in computer demos
Raster-Noton , a record  लेबल
Rastrum , a device used in medieval music  पांडुलिपियों to  draw staff lines
Raster  दस्तावेज़ ऑब्जेक्ट ,  a file format
Beowulf ( ; Old English :  ) is a legendary geatish  hero and later turned king in the epic poem named after him , one of the oldest surviving pieces of literature in the English language .
The attack on Pearl Harbor ( called Hawaii Operation or Operation AI by the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters ( Operation Z in planning ) and the Battle of  पर्ल हार्बर ) थी a आश्चर्य सैन्य स्ट्राइक conducted by the इम्पीरियल जापानी नेवी विरूद्ध the संयुक्त राज्य नवल  base at Pearl Harbor , Hawaii , on the morning of December 7 , 1941 ( December 8 in Japan ) .
From the standpoint  of the defenders , the आक्रमण commenced  at 7:48 a.m. Hawaiian Time .
The attack was intended as a preventive action in order to keep the U.S. Pacific Fleet from interfering with military actions  the साम्राज्य of जापानी थी नियोजन in southeast एशिया विरूद्ध विदेशी territories of the संयुक्त किंगडम  , the Netherlands , and the United States .
The base was attacked by 353 Japanese fighters  , बमवर्षक और torpedo  planes in two waves , launched from six aircraft carriers .
All eight U.S.  नेवी battleships  were damaged , with four being sunk .
Two of these  यहूद बाद उठाया , और साथ  the remaining four repaired , six battleships returned to service later in the war .
The  जापानी भी sank or क्षतिग्रस्त तीन  cruisers , three destroyers , an anti-aircraft training ship , and one minelayer .
188 U.S. aircraft were  नष्ट ; 2,402  Americans were killed and 1,282 wounded .
Important base installations such as the power station , shipyard , maintenance , and fuel  और torpedo  storage facilities , as well as the submarine piers and headquarters building ( also home of the intelligence section ) were not attacked .
Japanese losses were light : 29 aircraft and five midget submarines lost , and 65  servicemen मारे or wounded  .
One Japanese  नाविक थी captured  .
The attack came as a profound shock to the American people and led  सीधे to the अमरीकी प्रविष्टि into संसार  War II in both the Pacific and European theaters .
The following day ( December 8 ) ,  the संयुक्त  States declared war on Japan .
घरेलू support लिये non-interventionism  , which had been strong , disappeared .
Clandestine support of Britain ( for example the Neutrality  पैट्रोल ) थी replaced  by active alliance .
Subsequent operations by the U.S. prompted Germany and Italy to declare war on the U.S. on  दिसम्बर 11 , जिससे थी reciprocated by the u.S.  the same day .
There  यहूद numerous ऐतिहासिक precedents  for unannounced military action by Japan .
However , the lack of any formal warning ,  विशेषकर जबकि negotiations यहूद स्टिल जाहिर जारी , led अध्यक्ष  Franklin D. Roosevelt to proclaim December 7 , 1941 , `` a date which will live in infamy `` .
U.S. Route 85 ( US 85 ) is a north–south United States highway that runs for in  the पहाड़ - उत्तरी  Plains states of the United States .
The southern terminus of the route is at the United States-Mexico border in El Paso , Texas ,  connecting साथ मैक्सिकन संघीय राजमार्ग  45 .
The northern terminus is at the United States-Canada border in Fortuna , North Dakota , where the route  continues उत्तर as saskatchewan  Highway 35 .
In both  the संयुक्त राज्य और  Saskatchewan , Canada the route is known as the CanAm Highway .
Sections of US 85 are  माना भाग  of the Theodore Roosevelt Expressway .
The  संयुक्त राज्य अध्यक्षीय चुनाव of 1968 थी the 46th  quadrennial presidential election , held on Tuesday , November 5 , 1968 .
the रिपब्लिकन  nominee , former Vice-President Richard Nixon , won the election over the Democratic nominee , incumbent Vice-President Hubert Humphrey .
Nixon ran on  a अभियान कि promised  to restore law and order to the nation 's cities , torn by riots and crime .
Analysts have argued the election of 1968 is a realigning election as it  permanently disrupted the नई सौदे गठबन्धन  that had dominated presidential politics for 36 years .
coming चार सालो बाद डेमोक्रेट lyndon B. जॉनसन जीती in a ऐतिहासिक  landslide , the election saw the incumbent president forced out of the race and a Republican elected for the first time in twelve years .
It was a wrenching national experience , conducted during a year of violence that included the assassination of civil rights leader  मार्टिन लूथर किंग , jr. , और subsequent रेस दंगे आरपार the स्वदेश , the assasination of लोकतांत्रिक अध्यक्षीय प्रत्याशी रॉबर्ट F. कैनेडी , फैली  opposition to the Vietnam War across university campuses , and violent confrontations between police and anti-war protesters at the 1968 Democratic National Convention as the Democratic party split again and again .
The election featured the strongest  तीसरा पार्टी प्रयत्न चूंकि  1912 by former Alabama Governor George Wallace , a Democrat .
Because Wallace 's campaign opposed federal intervention in the South to end school segregation , he  carried the गहन दक्षिण और भागा खूब in जातीय  industrial districts in the North .
This was the last election in  जिससे नई यॉर्क था the सबसे मत  in the electoral college ( 43 votes ) .
After the 1970 census ,  कैलिफ़ोर्निया gained the सबसे चुनावी मत और रै remained the सबसे populous  state since then .
This is the latest election where a presidential ticket won without  carrying the वाइस अध्यक्षीय  candidate 's home state .
Windows Task Manager is a task manager or System monitor application included with the Microsoft Windows NT family of operating systems that provides limited information about computer performance and running applications , processes and CPU usage , commit charge and memory information , network activity and statistics , logged-in users , and system services  ( और as प्रायः is the मामला साथ तन्त्र टूल्स provided by microsoft लिये खिड़कियाँ , 3rd पार्टी तन्त्र  is available which fills the requirements more thoroughly , e.g , `` Process Explorer '' , `` Extended Task Manager '' , `` Anvir Task Manager '' , `` Process Hacker '' , and `` System Explorer '' ) .
The Task Manager can also be used to set process  प्राथमिकताएं , प्रोसेसर अपनापन , forcibly terminate प्रक्रियाओं ,  and shut down , restart , hibernate or log off from Windows .
खिड़कियाँ कार्य मैनेजर थी  introduced with Windows NT 4.0 .
पिछला संस्करण of खिड़कियाँ  NT included the Task List application , which had far fewer features .
The task list was capable of listing currently running  प्रक्रियाओं और हत्या उन्हें , or बनाना  a new process .
In  खिड़कियाँ xp तभी , a shutdown मेनू  is also present that allows access to Standby , Hibernate , Turn off , Restart , Log Off and Switch User .
Earlier versions of Microsoft Windows ( Microsoft Windows 3.x , Windows 95 ,  खिड़कियाँ 98 ) था a कार्यक्रम ज्ञात as कार्य to प्रदर्शक  the programs currently running .
This file was executed by  कार्यशील the taskman.exe संचिका इससे the  C : \Windows directory .
Kanji ( ; ) are the adopted logographic Chinese characters ( hanzi ) that are used in the modern Japanese writing system along with hiragana ( ひらがな , ) , katakana ( カタカナ , ) , Hindu-Arabic numerals , and the  occasional  use of the Latin alphabet .
The Japanese term kanji ( ) for the Chinese characters  वस्तुतः अर्थात् `` हान वर्ण  '' and is written using the same characters as the Chinese hanzi ( ) .
John R Williams ( May 4 , 1782 – October 20 , 1854 ) was an American  सिपाही , व्यापारी , और राजनेता जो is  most well known for serving as the first mayor of Detroit , Michigan .
In total , he served  as डेट्रॉयट 's महापौर लिये पाँच  other terms .
He also was a brigadier general  in the संयुक्त राज्य  Army during the Black Hawk War .
A simple dry  चुम्बकीय पोर्टेबल  compass .
A smartphone that  can be प्रयुक्त as a कम्पास क्युकी  of the magnetometer inside .
An iPhone that can be used as  a geological  compass because of the 3-axis teslameter and 3-axis accelerometer inside it
A military compass  कि थी प्रयुक्त  during World War I .
A compass is a navigational  यंत्र कि shows दिशानिर्देश  in a frame of reference that is stationary relative to the surface of the earth .
The frame of reference defines  the चार कार्डिनल दिशानिर्देश  ( or points ) – north , south , east , and west .
इंटरमीडिएट दिशानिर्देश  are also defined .
Usually , a diagram called a compass rose , which shows the directions ( with their names  प्रायः  abbreviated to initials ) , is marked on the compass .
When the compass is in use , the rose is aligned with the real directions in the frame of reference , so , for example , the `` N '' mark on the  रोज़ वाकई अंक to the उत्तर .
Frequently , in addition to the rose or sometimes instead of it , angle  markings in डिग्री  are shown on the compass .
North corresponds to zero degrees , and the angles increase clockwise , so east is  90 डिग्री , दक्षिण is 180 ,  and west is 270 .
These numbers allow the compass to show azimuths  or बियरिंग , जिससे  are commonly stated in this notation .
The magnetic compass was first  invented as a यंत्र लिये भविष्यवाणी as  early as the Chinese Han Dynasty ( Since about 206 BC ) .
The compass  थी प्रयुक्त in सोंग राजवंश  China by the military for navigational orienteering by 1040-1044 , and was used for maritime navigation by 1111 to 1117 .
The use of a compass is recorded in Western Europe between 1187 and  1202 , और in फारस in  1232 .
The dry compass was  invented in यूरोपीय around  1300 .
This was supplanted in the  जल्दी 20th सदी by the  liquid-filled magnetic compass .
The Inca Empire or Inka Empire ( Quechua : Tawantinsuyu )  थी the largest साम्राज्य  in pre-Columbian America .
The administrative , political and military center of  the साम्राज्य थी स्तिथ  in Cusco in modern-day Peru .
The Inca  सभ्यता arose इससे the हाइलैंड्स  of Peru sometime in the early 13th century .
From 1438 to 1533 , the  incas प्रयुक्त a किस्में of विधि , इससे conquest to शांतिपूर्ण  assimilation , to incorporate a large portion of western South America , centered on the Andean mountain ranges , including , besides Peru , large parts of modern Ecuador , western and south central Bolivia , northwest Argentina , north and central Chile , and southern Colombia into a state comparable to the historical empires of Eurasia .
The official language of the empire was  quechua , हालांकि सैंकड़ों of लोकल भाषाएं  and dialects of Quechua were spoken .
The Inca referred to their empire as Tawantinsuyu which can be  अनूदित as the चार  Regions or The Four United Provinces .
There were many local forms of worship , most of  उन्हें concerning लोकल पवित्र `` huacas `` , लकिन the इन्का नेतृत्व प्रोत्साहित the इबादत  of Inti —the sun god—and imposed its sovereignty above other cults such as that of Pachamama .
The Incas considered their King ,  the sapa इन्का , to be the  `` child of the sun . ''
The kidneys are organs that serve several  अनिवार्य नियामक भूमिकाएँ in सबसे पशु  , including vertebrates and some invertebrates .
They are essential in the urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes , maintenance of acid–base  संतुलन , और विनियमन of रक्त दबाव ( via maintaining नमक और जल  balance ) .
They serve the body as a natural filter of the blood , and remove wastes which are diverted to  the urinary ब्लैडर  .
In producing urine , the kidneys excrete wastes  ऐसे as यूरिया और अमोनियम , और वे हैं भी जिम्मेदार  for the reabsorption of water , glucose , and amino acids .
The  गुर्दे भी उपज  hormones including calcitriol , erythropoietin , and the enzyme renin .
Located at the rear of the abdominal cavity in the retroperitoneum , the kidneys receive blood from the paired renal arteries ,  और नाली  into the paired renal veins .
Each kidney excretes urine   into a ureter , itself a paired structure that empties into the urinary bladder .
Renal physiology is the study of kidney function , while  nephrology is the चिकित्सा specialty  concerned with kidney diseases .
Diseases of the kidney are diverse , but individuals with  गुर्दा बीमारी अक्सर प्रदर्शक characteristic  clinical features .
Common clinical conditions involving the kidney include the nephritic and nephrotic syndromes , renal cysts , acute kidney injury , chronic kidney disease , urinary tract infection  , nephrolithiasis , और urinary  tract obstruction .
विभिन्न cancers of the गुर्दा  exist ; the most common adult renal cancer is renal cell carcinoma .
Cancers , cysts , and some other renal conditions  can be प्रबंधित साथ हटाना  of the kidney , or nephrectomy .
When renal function , measured by glomerular filtration rate , is persistently poor , dialysis and  गुर्दा प्रत्यारोपण  may be treatment options .
Although they  हैं  not severely harmful , kidney stones can be painful and a nuisance .
The removal of kidney stones involves ultrasound treatment to break up the stones into smaller pieces , which are  तब passed through the urinary  tract .
One common symptom of kidney stones is a sharp pain in the  medial/lateral खण्ड  of the lower back .
Lockton Companies Inc.  is the संसार 's largest privately आयोजित बीमे  brokerage firm , providing insurance , risk management and employee benefits solutions .
In addition to its Kansas City , Missouri headquarters , Lockton  operates 60 स्थितियाँ  in 17 countries .
Lockton is currently  घर to अधिक than  4,450 Associates worldwide .
The company was founded by  जोकर lockton in 1966 और  has since become the world’s 9th largest insurance brokerage firm .
Lockton serves a wide array of industries with services that include risk management ,  casualty , surety ,  professional indemnity and more .
For 46 years , Lockton posted extraordinary organic growth , with  वैश्विक revenues reaching $ 915 लाख  in fiscal 2012 .
Lockton Benefits Group : Lockton’s Employee  benefit’s टोली works closely साथ बीमे वाहक और प्रशासकों  to create comprehensive and integrated benefits strategies for clients .
The Lockton Benefits Group provides services including compliance ,  कार्यपालिका लाभ , स्वास्थ्य और welfare , स्वास्थ्य  risk solutions , retirement and more .
Lockton  अपनापन : lockton अपनापन , an संबद्ध of  Lockton Companies , meets the insurance needs of affinity groups , franchises , professional organizations , and associations of all sizes .
Lockton Affinity offers  a किस्में of बीमे उत्पाद  options and programs .
Products include : General Liability , Professional Liability , Property  , मजदूर मुआवजे , निर्देशकों & अधिकारियों  Liability , Commercial Auto , Specialty Coverage , Excess , Health Plans and more .
lockton अंतरराष्ट्रीय  : Lockton International operates offices in the UK and Ireland , as well as offices throughout Asia and Latin America .
In Europe , Lockton International is a partner in EOS RISQ , Europe’s  अग्रणी बीमे ब्रोकिंग और  risk management consultancy .
EOS RISQ is an equity-based  यूरोपीय साझेदारी of प्रमुख स्वतंत्र बीमे  brokers with over 3,500 employees based in more than 30 countries in Europe .
Lockton International provides specialized solutions for  निजी लाइनों , sme’s और प्रमुख multi-national  clients .
White  चॉकलेट is a चॉकलेट  derivative .
It  commonly consists of cocoa मक्खन , शुगर  , milk solids and salt , and is characterized by a pale yellow or ivory appearance .
The melting point of cocoa butter , its primary  cocoa सेम घटक , is ऊँची पर्याप्त  to keep white chocolate solid at room temperature .
Donald Leon `` Don '' Blankenship ( born March 14 , 1950 ) was Chairman and CEO of Massey Energy Co. , the  छठे largest कोयले  company ( by 2008 production ) in the United States .
He served in those roles from November 30  , 2000 , जबतक दिसम्बर  31 , 2010 .
Blankenship is an active financial backer of the Republican party and  भागीदार in लोकल और राज्य राजनीती  , especially in his home state of West Virginia .
He has frequently spoken out publicly about politics , the  पर्यावरण , संघ , और  coal production .
U.S. Securities and Exchange  आयोग filings दिखाएँ blankenship थी सशुल्क $ 17.8  million in 2009 , the highest in the coal industry .
उसके 2009 अदा represents a $ 6.8  million raise over 2008 and almost double his compensation package in 2007 .
blankenship भी प्राप्त a deferred मुआवजे  package valued at $ 27.2 million in 2009 .
On December 3 , 2010 , Blankenship announced that he was retiring as CEO at the end of the year , and  होता be succeeded by massey अध्यक्ष बैक्सटर  F. Phillips Jr .
Bow Wow is one of the transcriptions used in  अंग्रेज़ी to describe  a dog 's bark .
Bow Wow may  भी  refer to:
Bow Wow ( band ) , a Japanese hard  rock/heavy मेटल बैंड
धनुष wow ( rapper  ) , an American rapper and actor
Bow Wow Sauce , a sauce developed in the  cotswolds प्रदेश of इंग्लैण्ड
Bow Wow  wow , a  UK new wave band
`` Bow Wow '' , a song by The Fiery Furnaces from their 2003 album  gallowsbird 's छाल
`` Bow Wow Blues ( My Mama Treat Me like a Dog ) '' , a song  रचित in the 1920s by चट्टान  Friend & Nat Osborne
Negligence ( Lat . negligentia , from neglegere , to neglect , literally `` not to  चुनें up कुछ '' ) is a विफलता to कसरत the परवाह कि  a reasonably prudent person would exercise in like circumstances .
The area of tort law known as  लापरवाही involves नुक़सान caused  by carelessness , not intentional harm .
According to Jay M.  feinman of the rutgers  University School of Law ;
`` The  कोर विचार of लापरवाही is कि लोगों चाहिए कसरत उचित  care when they act by taking account of the potential harm that they might foreseeably cause harm to other people . ''
`` those who go personally or bring property where they know that they or it may come into collision with the  व्यक्तियों or प्रॉपर्टी  of others have by law a duty cast upon them to use reasonable care and skill to avoid such a collision . ''
Fletcher v Rylands  ( [ 1866 ] lr  1 Ex 265 )
Through civil litigation , if an injured person proves that another person  acted negligently to कारण उनके चोट  , they can recover damages to compensate for their harm .
Proving a case for negligence can potentially entitle the injured plaintiff to  मुआवजे लिये नुक़सान to उनके देह , प्रॉपर्टी , दिमागी well-being , वित्तीय औकात  , or intimate relationships .
however , क्युकी लापरवाही मामले हैं बहुत fact-specific , इस सामान्य परिभाषा  does not fully explain the concept of when the law will require one person to compensate another for losses caused by accidental injury .
Further , the law of negligence at common law is only  एक पहलू of the विधि of देयता  .
Although resulting damages must be proven in order to recover  मुआवजे in a लापरवाही कार्रवाई , the  nature and extent of those damages are not the primary focus of negligence cases .
A melanocytic nevus ( also known as `` Nevocytic nevus '' ) is a  प्रकार of lesion कि contains nevus कोशिकाएं ( a प्रकार  of melanocyte ) .
कुछ स्त्रोत  equate the term mole with `` melanocytic nevus '' .
अन्य स्त्रोत आरक्षित  the term `` mole '' for other purposes .
The majority of  औज़ार appear दौरान the पहला दो दशकों of a person’s  life , while about one in every 100 babies is born with moles .
Acquired moles are a form of benign neoplasm , while congenital moles , or congenital nevi , are  माना a नाबालिग malformation or hamartoma और may be at a उच्चतर रिस्क लिये melanoma  .
A mole can be either subdermal ( under the skin ) or a  pigmented विकास on the स्किन , formed  mostly of a type of cell known as a melanocyte .
The high concentration of the body’s pigmenting agent , melanin  , is जिम्मेदार लिये उनके  dark color .
Moles are a member  of the परिवार of स्किन lesions  known as nevi .
the व्यापक  metabolic panel , or chemical screen , ( CMP ; CPT code 80053 ) is a panel of 14 blood tests which serves as an initial broad medical screening tool .
The CMP provides a rough check of kidney function , liver function , and  electrolyte और द्रव संतुलन  , but it is far from perfect .
Abnormal values from a CBC may be a result of false positives and thus the CBC may need to be repeated for a  रोगी ( or replaced साथ a अधिक विशिष्ट  test ) .
The CMP  is an विस्तारित संस्करण  of the basic metabolic panel ( BMP ) , which does not include liver tests .
A CMP ( or BMP ) can be ordered as part of a routine physical examination , or  may be प्रयुक्त to मॉनिटर a रोगी साथ a दीर्घकालिक बीमारी  , such as diabetes mellitus or hypertension .
Previous names for the  फलक of परीक्षण have महरूम chem  12 , Chemistry panel , Chemistry screen , SMA 12 , SMA 20 and SMAC ( Sequential Multiple Analysis - Computer ) .
The  परीक्षण हैं performed on  machines based on the AutoAnalyzer invented in 1957 .
Natural gas  निष्कर्षण by देशों in घन  meters per year .
Natural gas is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of methane , but  commonly सहित varying amounts of अन्य hydrocarbons  , carbon dioxide , nitrogen , and hydrogen sulfide .
प्राकृतिक गैस is an उर्जा सोर्स  often used for heating , cooking , and electricity generation .
It is also used as fuel for  वाहनों और as a रासायनिक फर्टिलाइजर in the manufacture  of plastics and other commercially important organic chemicals .
Natural gas is found in deep underground natural rock  formations or संबद्ध  with other hydrocarbon reservoirs in coal beds and as methane clathrates .
Petroleum is also another resource found in proximity to and  साथ प्राकृतिक  gas .
Most natural gas was  निर्मित over समय by दो mechanisms  : biogenic and thermogenic .
Biogenic gas is created by  methanogenic जीवों in marshes , bogs  , landfills , and shallow sediments .
Deeper in the earth , at greater temperature and  दबाव ,  thermogenic gas is created from buried organic material .
Before natural gas can be used as a fuel , it must undergo processing to remove impurities , including  जल , to मिलें the विशेषताएँ  of marketable natural gas .
The by-products of processing include ethane , propane ,  butanes , pentanes , और  higher molecular weight hydrocarbons , hydrogen sulfide ( which may be converted into pure sulfur ) , carbon dioxide , water vapor , and sometimes helium and nitrogen .
Natural gas is often informally referred to simply as  गैस , विशेषकर जब compared  to other energy sources such as oil or coal .
This page is  परिचय the कल्पना  Movers band .
For information about the TV show starring the band , see  कल्पना मूवर्स  ( TV series ) .
Imagination Movers is a band formed in New Orleans ,  louisiana ,  in 2003 .
The lineup includes Rich Collins , Scott Durbin , Dave Poche ,  और स्कॉट `` smitty  '' Smith .
सदस्यों of  the group were longtime friends and neighbors .
The group started as a television/music concept which was pitched to local PBS  affiliates in नई  Orleans .
WLAE-TV  थी the पहला  to take an interest in the group and later introduced them to Beth Courtney , the President & Chief Executive Officer at Louisiana Public Broadcasting .
Soon after , LPB  began airing one-minute  videos produced by the Imagination Movers themselves .
The Movers built a sizable regional following by setting educational songs  लिये बच्चे to melodies  and rhythms that adults appreciate as well .
They sold more than  100,000 नक़ल of उनके  self-produced CDs and DVDs .
Their three indie CDs : `` Good Ideas , '' `` Calling All Movers , '' and `` Eight Feet '' along with their grass roots DVD `` Stir It  up '' have , संयुक्त , जीती चौदह नेशनल पुरस्कार , इससे ऐसे समूह as the नेशनल संघ  of Parenting Publications ( NAPPA ) and Parents ' Choice .
In early 2005 , Disney  took सूचना , और initiated negotiations  to add the Movers to the company 's roster .
ये यहूद बाधित  in August when the flood protection designed and built by the Army Corps of Engineers to protect New Orleans failed .
The resulting floodwater claimed the band 's office , as well as the homes  of कॉलिन्स , durbin और poche – लकिन  the deal was signed in the spring of 2006 .
In 2008 ,  वॉल्ट डिज़्नी रिकॉर्ड introduced  the Imagination Movers ' music to the nation with the release of the Movers ' first nationally-released CD , `` Juice Box Heroes . ''
In September 2008 , a  30-minute दिखाएँ featuring the समूह  began airing on the Disney Channel 's preschool programming block known as Playhouse Disney , and currently airs on Playhouse Disney 's replacement , Disney Junior .
The Movers  लिखें और perform  all the songs on their show .
Moreover , the Imagination Movers have received  नाजुक  kudos for their live concert performances .
In October 2009 , the Imagination  मूवर्स प्रारंभ the `` सजीव इससे the विचार  Warehouse Concert Tour 2009 '' .
Traveling from mid-October to mid-December 2009 their live performances include lots of  उनके पसंदीदा गीतों और नाचना , as खूब as वीडियो दिखावे  of Warehouse Mouse .
Beginning in early-February  2011 और wrapping up in लेट may 2011 , the कल्पना मूवर्स प्रस्तुत उनके `` in a बिग गोदाम कॉन्सर्ट दौरे  , '' playing more than 100 shows in 50+ cities across North America .
From March to October 2012 , the Imagination Movers toured  उत्तर अमेरिका  on their post-Disney `` Rock-O-Matic '' tour .
The show maintained several elements of the original TV concept , such as an on-stage `` idea emergency '' and several sets from their older catalogue ; however , with the departure of Wendy Calio back to her  देशी हवाई , the अक्षर `` नीना '' , साथ साथ उसके musical संख्याएँ , is नहीं  present .
The tour promotes the Imagination Movers ' new album/DVD release , ``  rock-o-matic '' , जिससे सुविधाएँ  all new music from the band .
The album itself is produced independently of Disney and has a notably more mature , contemporary rock-and-roll sound , though  स्टिल बहुत उचित लिये  children .
Several performance dates were moved to later in 2012 to benefit from the increased exposure of  the कल्पना मूवर्स tv दिखाएँ अभी playing रोज़ on डिज़्नी  Junior .
The platypus ( Ornithorhynchus anatinus ) is a  semiaquatic स्तनधारी endemic to पूर्वी ऑस्ट्रेलिया  , including Tasmania .
Together with the four species of echidna , it  is एक of the पाँच extant प्रजाति of monotremes  , the only mammals that lay eggs instead of giving birth .
It is the sole living representative of its family (  ornithorhynchidae ) और genus ( ornithorhynchus  ) , though a number of related species have been found in the fossil record .
The unusual appearance of this egg-laying , duck -billed , beaver -tailed , otter -footed mammal baffled European  naturalists जब वे पहला encountered  it , with some considering it an elaborate fraud .
It is one of the few venomous mammals , the male platypus having a spur on the hind foot that delivers a venom  सक्षम of causing कठोर पीड़ा to इंसानो  .
The unique features of the platypus make it an important subject in the study of evolutionary biology and a recognisable and iconic symbol of Australia ; it has appeared as a  शुभंकर at नेशनल कार्यक्रम  and is featured on the reverse of its 20-cent coin .
The platypus is the animal emblem of the state  of नई दक्षिण  Wales .
Until the early 20th century , it was  hunted लिये इसके फर , लकिन it is  now protected throughout its range .
हालांकि खिलाते प्रजनन programmes have  had only limited success and the platypus is vulnerable to the effects of pollution , it is not under any immediate threat .
The Chupacabra or Chupacabras  ( , इससे chupar `` to चूस '' और cabra ``  goat '' , literally `` goat sucker '' ) is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas .
It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto Rico (  जहाँ ये sightings यहूद पहला reported ) , मैक्सिको , और the संयुक्त राज्य , विशेषकर in the latter 's लैटिन अमरीकी  communities .
The name comes from the animal 's reported habit of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock ,  विशेषकर बकरियों  .
Physical  descriptions of the प्राणी  vary .
Eyewitness sightings have been claimed as early as 1995 in Puerto Rico , and have since been reported as far north as Maine , and as far south as Chile , and even being  spotted बाहर the americas in देशों जैसे रूस और the फिलीपीन  .
It is supposedly a heavy creature , the size of a small bear , with a row of  कांटे reaching इससे the गर्दन  to the base of the tail .
Sighting reports of the  chupacabra have महरूम disregarded as uncorroborated or lacking  evidence , while most reports in northern Mexico and the southern United States have been verified as canids afflicted by mange .
Biologists and  वन्यजीव प्रबन्धन officials दृश्य the chupacabra  as a contemporary legend .
The North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) is an agreement signed by Canada , Mexico , and the United States  , बनाना a trilateral  trade bloc in North America .
The agreement came into force on  जनवरी 1 ,  1994 .
it superseded the canada–united राज्य  Free Trade Agreement between the U.S. , Canada , and Mexico
NAFTA has two supplements : the  उत्तर अमरीकी अनुबंध on पर्यावरणीय  Cooperation ( NAAEC ) and the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation ( NAALC ) .
Thermal comfort is the condition of mind  कि expresses संतोष साथ the थर्मल  environment and is assessed by subjective evaluation ( ANSI / ASHRAE Standard 55 ) .
Maintaining this standard of thermal comfort for occupants of buildings or other enclosures is one of the important goals of HVAC ( heating  , वेंटिलेशन , और एयर कंडीशनिंग ) डिज़ाइन इंजीनियर्स  .
The Predicted Mean Vote  ( pmv ) मॉडल स्टैंड among the सबसे पहचाना  thermal comfort models .
It was developed using principles of heat balance and experimental data  एकत्रित in a नियंत्रित जलवायु कक्ष अंतर्गत  steady state conditions .
Because the PMV model was derived from data collected in a controlled climate , it is not  उपयुक्त लिये अनुप्रयोग in naturally हवादार  spaces which often have high levels of air movement .
This shortcoming motivated the  विकास of a परिवार  of empirical statistical models of thermal comfort in naturally ventilated spaces known as adaptive models .
Adaptive models of thermal comfort consider occupants as dynamically interacting with their  पर्यावरण , और controlling उनके थर्मल सुकून by अर्थात् of कपडे  or window-opening and closing .
This is in contrast  to थर्मल सुकून in sealed इमारतें , in जिससे  occupants experience the environment passively .
Thermal comfort is affected by heat  conduction , संवहन , विकिरण  , and evaporative heat loss .
Thermal comfort is  कायम जब the ऊष्मा उत्पन्न by इंसान  metabolism is allowed to dissipate , thus maintaining thermal equilibrium with the surroundings .
It has been long recognized that the sensation of feeling  hot or ठंडा is नहीं बस  dependent on air temperature alone .
Thermal comfort calculations according to ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 55 can be freely performed with the CBE Thermal Comfort  औजार लिये ashrae-55 .
Durante degli Alighieri , simply referred to as Dante  ( , ; ; c. 1265–1321 ) ,  was a major Italian poet of the Middle Ages .
His Divine Comedy , originally called ' and later called ' by Boccaccio , is widely considered the greatest  साहित्यिक कार्य रचित  in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature .
In  इटली he is ज्ञात  as ' ( `` the Supreme Poet '' ) or just ' .
He , Petrarch and Boccaccio are  भी ज्ञात as `` the तीन  fountains '' or `` the three crowns '' .
Dante is also called the `` Father  of the इतालवी भाषा  '' .
Headquarters (   Kobe , Japan )
( )  is a टायर  and rubber company based in Japan .
It is part  of the sumitomo  Group .
The company traces its origins  to 1909 , जब the sumitomo  Group made an investment in Dunlop Japan , the newly formed Japanese subsidiary of the British company Dunlop Rubber .
Over the years Sumitomo and Dunlop developed a close  कारोबार संबंध , और in 1963 the sumitomo  Group acquired control of Dunlop Japan and renamed it Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd .
In 1985 , when Dunlop Rubber was taken over by BTR plc , the company acquired the automobile tire assets of Dunlop , including the right to use the Dunlop  ब्रांड  on automobile tires .
The acquisition did not include the US and Australian businesses , which were separately owned , but in 1986 Sumitomo also acquired  the dunlop टायर निगम of the  US from its management .
In 1997 , Sumitomo formed a joint venture  साथ goodyear  Tire and Rubber Company , by which Goodyear and Sumitomo agreed to manufacture tires for each other 's markets , including Dunlop branded tires .
As part of  the अनुबंध , goodyear acquired 75 % रूचि  in Dunlop Tyres , the UK company which Sumitomo had formed , and in Dunlop Tire Corporation .
goodyear और sumitomo  also made investments in each other .
Today , the company makes a wide range of rubber based products ,  सहित ऑटोमोबाइल टायर , गोल्फ़ गेंदें और टेनिस  balls .
Microsoft Visual Studio Express is a set of freeware  एकीकृत विकास environments ( आईडीई ) विकसित by microsoft  that are lightweight versions of the Microsoft Visual Studio product line .
Express Editions were  conceived शुरूआत साथ  Visual Studio 2005 .
The idea of Express editions is to provide  streamlined , easy-to-use और easy-to-learn ides लिये  users other than professional software developers , such as hobbyists and students .
The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems  of यूरोपीय stretching लगभग आरपार आठ अल्पाइन  countries from Austria and Slovenia in the east , Switzerland , Liechtenstein , Germany , France to the west and Italy and Monaco to the south .
The mountains  यहूद formed over सैंकड़ों of लाखो of सालो  as the African and Eurasian tectonic plates collided .
Extreme shortening  caused by the इवेंट resulted in समुद्री sedimentary  rocks rising by thrusting and folding into high mountain peaks such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn .
Mont Blanc spans the  french–italian किनारा , और  at is the highest mountain in the Alps .
The Alpine region area  contains अनेक  peaks higher than , known as the `` four-thousanders `` .
The altitude and size  of the दायरा affects the जलवायु in यूरोपीय ; in the kyu वर्षण  levels vary greatly and climatic conditions consist of distinct zones .
Wildlife such as ibex live in the higher peaks to elevations of ,  और पौधे ऐसे as edelweiss grow in रॉकी क्षेत्रों  in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations .
Evidence of human habitation in the Alps goes back to the  paleolithic era  .
A mummified man , determined to be 5,000 years old , was discovered on a glacier at the  austrian–italian किनारा in 1991 .
by the 6th सदी  BC , the Celtic La Tène culture was well established .
Hannibal may have  crossed the ऐल्प्स साथ a झुंड of  elephants , and the Romans had settlements in the region .
In 1800 Napoleon  crossed एक of  the mountain passes with an army of 40,000 .
The 18th and 19th centuries saw  an influx of naturalists , लेखक , और कलाकारों , in particular  the Romantics , followed by the golden age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks .
In World War II the Third Reich invaded the Alpine countries , with the  एक्सेप्शन of स्विट्ज़रलैंड और liechtenstein  ; Adolf Hitler kept a base of operation in the Bavarian Alps throughout the war .
The Alpine  प्रदेश  has a strong cultural identity .
The traditional culture of farming , cheesemaking , and woodworking still exists in Alpine  गांवों , हालांकि the पर्यटक उद्योग began to grow जल्दी in the  20th century and expanded greatly after World War II to become the dominant industry by the end of the century .
The Winter Olympic Games have been hosted in the  स्विस , फ्रेंच , इतालवी  , Austrian and German Alps .
At present the region is  घर to 14 लाख लोगों और रै  120 million annual visitors .
Lois Patrice Griffin ( née  pewterschmidt ) is a अक्षर इससे the एनिमेटेड टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  Family Guy .
She is voiced by writer  एलेक्स borstein और पहला appeared on टेलीविज़न  , along with the rest of the family in the 15-minute short on December 20 , 1998 .
Lois was  निर्मित और designed by श्रेणी  creator Seth MacFarlane .
MacFarlane  थी  asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company based on Larry and Steve , a short made by MacFarlane which featured a middle-aged character named Larry and an intellectual dog , Steve .
After the pilot was given the green light ,  the griffin परिवार appeared  on the episode `` Death Has a Shadow `` .
लोइस is the माँ  of the Griffin family .
With her husband Peter  , वो रै था तीन  children : Meg , Chris , and Stewie .
Lois is often portrayed as a stereotypical television mother , despite  उसके admitting to होने a ड्रग उपयोक्ता ,  a recovering meth addict kleptomaniac .
Lois has  भी था अनेक अफेयर्स ,  one of which allegedly resulted in the conception of Meg .
She has appeared in other media relating to Family Guy—including a video game , commercials and  books—and प्रेरित an संपूर्ण लकीर  of merchandise .
Lois 's distinctive New York accent originated from a character in a stage show that Alex Borstein had performed in , which was  largely प्रेरित  by a relative who grew up on Long Island , New York .
Family transmission of Basque language (  बास्क as आरंभिक भाषा  )
Percentage of students registered in  बास्क भाषा स्कूलों ( 2000–2005  ) .
Location of the  basque-language प्रांतों भीतर स्पेन और  France
Basque ( endonym : , ) is  the ancestral भाषा of the बास्क  people , who inhabit the Basque Country , a region spanning an area in northeastern Spain and southwestern France .
It is spoken by  27 % of basques in सब territories  ( 714,136 out of 2,648,998 ) .
Of these , 663,035 live in the Spanish part of  the बास्क देश  and the remaining 51,100 live in the French part .
In academic discussions of  the वितरण of  Basque in Spain and France , it is customary to refer to three ancient provinces in France and four Spanish provinces .
Native speakers are concentrated in a contiguous area including parts of the  स्पेनी autonomous समुदायों  of the Basque Country and Navarre and in the western half of the French département of Pyrénées-Atlantiques .
The Basque Autonomous Community is an administrative entity within the binational ethnographic Basque Country incorporating the traditional Spanish provinces of Biscay , Gipuzkoa , and Álava , which retain their  अस्तित्व as politico-administrative  divisions .
These provinces and many areas of Navarre are heavily populated by ethnic Basques , but Basque was , at least until the 1990s , not spoken as a native language in most of Álava , western parts of Biscay and central and southern areas of Navarre , either because it had been replaced by  स्पेनी साथ the  centuries , in some areas , or because it had never been spoken there , in other areas .
In southwestern France , the ancient Basque-populated provinces were Labourd ,  निम्नतर नावारा , और soule  .
They and other regions were consolidated into a single département in 1790 under the name Basses-Pyrénées  , a नाम जिससे persisted  until 1970 .
A standardized form of the Basque language , called Euskara Batua , was developed  by the बास्क भाषा अकादमी in the  late 1960s .
Euskara Batua was created so that Basque language could be used—and easily understood by all Basque speakers—in formal situations ( education  , द्रव्यमान मीडिया , साहित्य ) ,  and this is its main use today .
The role of this standard Basque language depends  on the भाषाई शैक्षणिक मॉडल of  each region and each school .
In most areas of the Spanish Basque Country , the educational Model D , where all subjects are  सिखाया in बास्क , मगर `` स्पेनी भाषा  and literature '' ( which is taught in Spanish ) is now the predominant model .
In France , the Basque language school Seaska and the  संघ लिये a दुभाषिया ( बास्क और फ्रेंच ) schooling ikasbi मिलें a चौड़ी दायरा  of Basque language educational needs up to the Sixth Form , while often struggling to surmount financial and administrative constraints .
Apart from this standardized version , there are five main Basque dialects : Bizkaian , Gipuzkoan , and Upper Navarrese in Spain ,  और navarrese–lapurdian और zuberoan  ( in France ) .
हालांकि वे लो उनके names इससे the उल्लेखित  historic provinces , the dialect boundaries are not congruent with province boundaries .
The President , Directors and Company , of the Bank of the United States , commonly known as the First Bank of the United States , was a  सेंट्रल बैंको , चार्टर्ड लिये a पद of बीस  years , by the United States Congress on February 25 , 1791 .
स्थापना of the बैंको थी शामिल in a three-part विस्तार of संघीय फिस्कल और मौद्रिक शक्ति  ( along with a federal mint and excise taxes ) championed by Alexander Hamilton , first Secretary of the Treasury .
Hamilton believed a central bank was necessary to stabilize and improve the nation 's credit ,  और to improve हैंडलिंग of the वित्तीय कारोबार of the संयुक्त राज्य सरकारी अंतर्गत the newly  enacted Constitution .
Officially proposed to the first session of the First Congress  in 1790 , हैमिल्टन 's बैंको faced फैली  resistance from opponents of increased federal power .
सचिव of राज्य थामस जेफरसन और जेम्स मैडिसन led the विपक्ष , जिससे claimed कि the बैंको थी असंवैधानिक , और कि  it benefited merchants and investors at the expense of the majority of the population .
The First Bank building is now a National Historic Landmark located in Philadelphia ,  पेन्सिलवेनिया भीतर स्वतंत्रता नेशनल ऐतिहासिक  Park .
James Wesley Marsters ( born August  20 , 1962 ) is an अमरीकी  actor and musician .
Marsters first came to the attention of the general public playing the popular  अक्षर स्पाइक , a platinum-blond yobbish अंग्रेज़ी पिशाच in  the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer and its spin-off series , Angel , from 1997 to 2004 .
Since then , he has gone on to play other science fiction roles , such as the alien supervillain Brainiac on the Superman -inspired series Smallville , the omnisexual time traveller Captain John  हार्ट in अंग्रेजों science-fiction दिखाएँ torchwood  and terrorist Barnabas Greeley in Sci fi 's Caprica .
Marsters appeared in a supporting role  in the 2007 फिल्म  P.S .
I Love You and as the main  विपक्षी , piccolo , in the 2009  fantasy adventure film Dragonball Evolution .
He appeared as a recurring character in the first season of the  पुनरुद्धार of  Hawaii 5-0 .
In molecular biology , human  chorionic gonadotropin  ( hCG ) is a hormone produced by the fertilized egg after conception .
Later  दौरान गर्भावस्था it is बना by the विकासशील placenta  , and later by the placental component syncytiotrophoblast .
Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone ; therefore , elevated levels measured when the patient is not  गर्भवती can सीसे to a कर्कट निदान  .
However , it is not known whether this production is a contributing cause or an  प्रभाव of tumorigenesis  .
The pituitary analogue of hCG , known as luteinizing hormone ( LH ) , is produced in the  pituitary ग्रंथि of males और  females of all ages .
, the FDA has  निषिद्ध the बिक्री of ``  homeopathic '' and over the counter hCG diet products and declared them fraudulent and illegal .
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter , known by  उसके स्टेज नाम बेयोंस ( ; born सितंबर  4 , 1981 ) , is an American singer , songwriter , dancer , and actress .
Born and raised in Houston , Texas , she performed in singing and dancing competitions as a child before  forming in 1990 a समूह साथ केली rowland और latavia roberson  that was eventually named Destiny 's Child .
Once signed to Columbia Records ,  the लड़कियों subsequently  became one of the world 's best-selling girl groups of all time .
The  समूह थी plagued by आतंरिक विरोध और  legal turmoil and Knowles suffered from depression that lasted for a number of years .
During the group 's hiatus , Knowles released her debut  सोलो एल्बम  Dangerously in Love ( 2003 ) , which earned her five Grammy Awards and has sold a total of 4.9 million copies in the US alone .
It spawned Billboard number one singles `` Crazy in Love , '' considered by VH1 to be the ``  महानतम सोंग of the 00 's ,  '' and `` Baby Boy . ''
Following the disbandment of Destiny 's Child in 2005 , Knowles 's second solo album B'Day ( 2006 ) contained the top five singles `` Déjà Vu `` , `` Irreplaceable `` , and ``  खूबसूरत  Liar `` .
Her performance in Dreamgirls ( 2006 ) earned her two  सुनहरी ग्लोब nominations  .
Knowles ' work  playing etta जेम्स  in that film inspired her subsequent album I Am ...
Sasha Fierce ( 2008 ) which spawned hits `` If I Were a Boy `` , `` Single Ladies ( Put a  रिंग on it ) `` , `` हेलो `` , और `` मीठी सपनो ``  .
The album also helped Knowles earn six Grammys in 2010 , breaking the record for  सबसे ग्रैमी पुरस्कार  won by a female artist in one night .
उसके चौथी एल्बम 4 ( 2011  ) deviated towards traditional R & B and became her fourth consecutive number one album on the Billboard 200 .
In January 2012 , Knowles gave birth to daughter Blue Ivy  कार्टर , उसके  first child with husband Jay-Z .
Knowles has sold over 13 million albums in the US and 118 million records worldwide (  as खूब as a further 50 लाख रिकॉर्ड साथ नियति 's चाइल्ड ) , और is एक of the best-selling  music artists of all time .
The Recording  उद्योग संघ of अमेरिका  ( RIAA ) recognized Knowles as the Top Certified Artist of the 2000s .
In 2009 , Billboard named her the Top Radio Songs Artist of the decade and ranked  उसके the शीर्ष  Female Artist and the fourth Artist of the Decade .
Beyoncé Knowles is the  सबसे मनोनीत स्त्री in ग्रैमी पुरस्कार इतिहास , receiving 17 पुरस्कार ; अन्य accolades शामिल 12 एमटीवी वीडियो  Music Awards , 7 Billboard Awards including a Millennium Award , and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame as part of Destiny 's Child .
`` Angry All the Time '' is the title of a song written by Bruce Robison and first  अंकित on उसके 1998 एल्बम लपेटा  .
It was later covered by  टिम mcgraw साथ अतिथि vocalist  Faith Hill .
Released in July 2001 , McGraw 's version was the  दूसरी सिंगल इससे mcgraw 's नियत  This Circus Down album .
The song reached Number One on the  बिलबोर्ड hot देश singles & ट्रैक्स ( अभी hot देश  Songs ) charts .
Dear John is a 2010  अमरीकी रोमांटिक नाटक - युद्ध  film starring Amanda Seyfried and Channing Tatum .
It was released theatrically in North America on  फ़रवरी 5 , 2010  .
The film was directed by Lasse Hallström , and it is an adaptation of Nicholas Sparks  's अनोखा of the वही नाम  .
It follows the  जीवन of a सिपाही  ( Channing Tatum ) after he falls in love with a young woman ( Amanda Seyfried ) .
They decide to exchange letters to each  अन्य बाद he is तैनात  to the war .
the फिल्म थी फिल्माया  in 2009 in Charleston , South Carolina .
Despite receiving negative reviews , the film made a strong box office performance , knocking off Avatar after seven weekends in first place and grossing a total  of $ 114,977,104 विश्वव्यापी  .
The film  थी released on  May 25 , 2010 on DVD and Blu-ray .
These are  सूचियाँ of the व्यस्ततम  airports in the United States .
Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International  विमानक्षेत्र is the व्यस्ततम सिंगल  airport in the United States .
However , all of  the नई यॉर्क नगर महानगर क्षेत्रफल 's एयरपोर्ट combine to  create the largest airport system in the United States , second in the world in terms of passenger traffic , and first in the world in terms of total flight operations .
Dora the Explorer is an American animated  टेलीविज़न श्रेणी  created by Chris Gifford , Valerie Walsh , and Eric Weiner .
Dora the Explorer  became a नियमित श्रेणी in 2000  .
The show is carried on the Nickelodeon  केबल टेलीविज़न संजाल , सहित the संबद्ध  Nick Jr. channel .
It  aired on सीबीएस  until September 2006 .
A Spanish-dubbed version first aired as part of a Nick en español block on NBC Universal -owned Telemundo through September 2006 ; since April 2008 , this version of  the कार्यक्रम  has been carried on Univision as part of the Planeta U block .
Santa Fe ( ; ( Tewa : Ogha Po'oge , ) ) is  the पूंजी of the  U.S. state of New Mexico .
It is the  fourth-largest नगर in  the state and is the seat of .
Santa Fe ( meaning “holy  faith”  in Spanish ) had a population of 67,947 in the 2010 census .
It is the principal city of a Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Santa Fe County and is part of the larger  albuquerque-santa fe-las वेगास संयुक्त सांख्यिकीय क्षेत्रफल  .
The city’s full name when founded was La  विला रियल de la सांता  Fé de San Francisco de Asís ( “The Royal Town of the Holy Faith of St. Francis of Assisi” ) .
Pepsi ( stylized in lowercase as pepsi , formerly stylized in uppercase as PEPSI ) is a carbonated soft  पेय कि is उत्पादित और manufactured  by PepsiCo .
Created  और विकसित in 1893 और introduced as ब्रैड  's Drink , it was renamed as Pepsi-Cola on August 28 , 1898 , then to Pepsi in 1961 .
1765  broadside
The Sons of Liberty was a group consisting of American patriots that originated  in the pre-independence उत्तर अमरीकी अंग्रेजों  colonies .
The group was formed to protect the rights of the   colonists and to take to the streets against the taxes by the British government .
They are best known for undertaking the Boston Tea Party in 1773 , which led to the Intolerable Acts ( an intense crackdown  by the अंग्रेजों  government ) , and a counter-mobilization by the Patriots .
Osaka  किला
is a city in the Kansai region of Japan  's प्रमुख द्वीप of होन्शू , a designated नगर अंतर्गत the लोकल स्वायत्तता विधि , the  capital city of Osaka Prefecture and also the largest part of the Keihanshin metropolis , which comprises three major cities of Japan , Kyoto , Osaka and Kobe .
Located at the mouth of the Yodo River on Osaka Bay , Osaka is  जापानी 's तीसरा largest नगर by जनसांख्यिकी बाद  Tokyo ( special wards ) and Yokohama .
Keihanshin is the second largest  महानगर क्षेत्रफल in जापानी by जनसांख्यिकी और एक of the largest  metropolitan areas highly ranked in the world , with nearly 19 million people , and by GDP the second largest area in Japan and the seventh largest area in the world .
Historically the commercial center of Japan , Osaka functions as one of the  कमांड centers लिये the जापानी  economy .
The ratio between daytime and night time population is 141 % , the highest  in जापानी , highlighting इसके औकात  as an economic center .
Its nighttime  जनसांख्यिकी is 2.6 लाख , the तीसरा in the देश , लकिन in दिन the जनसांख्यिकी surges to 3.7 लाख , दूसरी तभी  after Tokyo ( combining the special wards of Tokyo , which is not a single incorporated city , for statistical purposes ; see the Tokyo article for more information on the definition and makeup of Tokyo ) .
Osaka used to be  referred to as the in सामंती  Edo period because it was the centre of trading for rice , creating the first modern futures exchange market in the world .
The  छोटी मरमेड is a 1989 अमरीकी  animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by Walt Disney Pictures .
Based on the Danish fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen  , the छोटी मरमेड tells the स्टोरी of a खूबसूरत मरमेड  who dreams of becoming human .
Written , directed , and produced by Ron Clements and John Musker , with music by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman , the film features the voices  jodi बेंसन , क्रिस्टोफर  Daniel Barnes , Pat Carroll , Samuel E. Wright , Jason Marin , Kenneth Mars , Buddy Hacket , and Rene Auberjonois .
The 28th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series , The Little Mermaid was released to theaters on November 14 , 1989 to largely positive reviews , garnering $ 84 million at the box  दफ्तर दौरान इसके आरंभिक रिलीज , और $ 211 लाख in कुल आजीवन सकल  .
After the success of the 1988  डिज़्नी / amblin फिल्मी जो framed रोजर  Rabbit , The Little Mermaid is given credit for breathing life back into the art of Disney animated feature films after a string of critical or commercial failures produced by Disney that dated back to the early 1970s .
It also marked the start of the  era ज्ञात as the  Disney Renaissance .
A stage adaptation of the film with a book by Doug Wright and  अतिरिक्त गीतों by एलन menken और नई  lyricist Glenn Slater opened in Denver in July 2007 and began performances on Broadway January 10 , 2008 .
alt=Close-up photo of a  मेटल चमचा भर साथ  a viscous , clear purple fluid
Purple drank is a slang term for a recreational drug  लोकप्रिय  in the hip hop community in the southern United States , originating in Houston , Texas .
Its main ingredient is  नुस्खा -strength खांसी  syrup containing codeine and promethazine .
Cough syrup is typically mixed with ingredients such as Sprite soft drink or  पहाड़ ओस और टुकड़े  of Jolly Rancher candy .
The purplish hue of  जामुनी पिया आता इससे dyes in  the cough syrup .
There are numerous slang terms for purple drank , including sizzurp , lean , syrup ,  पिया ,  barre , purple jelly , Texas tea , and Tsikuni .
First/given , middle , and last/family/surname diagram with  J. S. बच as उदाहरण .
J. S. Bach shared his given name  साथ छह तात्कालिक परिवार  members and many extended family members .
He  साझा उसके परिवार  name with most family members .
A given name , in  पश्चिमी contexts प्रायः referred to as a पहला नाम , is a निजी नाम  that specifies and differentiates between members of a group of individuals , especially in a family , all of whose members usually share the same family name ( surname ) .
A given name is purposefully  दिए , प्रायः by a चाइल्ड  's parents at or near birth , in contrast to an inherited one such as a family name .
A given name is  sometimes legally बदला  through a name change .
Given names are  प्रायः प्रयुक्त in a परिचित  and friendly manner in informal situations .
In more formal situations  the उपनाम is प्रयुक्त बजाय , जबतक  it is necessary to distinguish between people with the same surname .
The idiom `` on a  first-name आधार '' ( or `` on first-name शर्तें  '' ) alludes to the familiarity of addressing another by a given name .
The western style  of having  both a family name ( surname ) and a given name is far from universal .
In many countries it is common for ordinary people  to have तभी एक  name ( a mononym ) .
Hydrochloric acid is a  साफ , colourless समाधान  of hydrogen chloride ( H Cl ) in water .
It is a highly  क्षयकारी , दमदार  mineral acid with many industrial uses .
Hydrochloric acid is  मिला naturally  in gastric acid .
Historically called muriatic acid , and spirits of salt , hydrochloric acid was  उत्पादित इससे vitriol  ( sulfuric acid ) and common salt .
It first  appeared दौरान the पुनर्जागरण ,  and then it was used by chemists such as Glauber , Priestley and Davy in their scientific research .
With major  उत्पादन starting in the औद्योगिक क्रान्ति , हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड is प्रयुक्त  in the chemical industry as a chemical reagent in the large-scale production of vinyl chloride for PVC plastic , and MDI / TDI for polyurethane .
It has numerous  smaller-scale अनुप्रयोग , सहित household  cleaning , production of gelatin and other food additives , descaling , and leather processing .
About 20 million tonnes of  हाइड्रोक्लोरिक एसिड  are produced annually .
Wheat (  triticum spp . ) is  a cereal grain , originally from the Levant region of the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands , but now cultivated worldwide .
In 2010 , world production of  गेहूं थी 651 लाख टन , बनाना it the तीसरा  most-produced cereal after maize ( 844 million tons ) and rice ( 672 million tons ) .
Wheat was the second most-produced cereal in 2009 ; world production in  कि साल थी 682 लाख टन  , after maize ( 817 million tons ) , and with rice as a close third ( 679 million tons ) .
This grain is grown on more  जमीन क्षेत्रफल than कोई  other commercial food .
World trade in wheat is greater than for all  अन्य फसलों संयुक्त  .
Globally , wheat is the leading source of vegetable protein in  इंसान खाना , having a उच्चतर प्रोटीन  content than soybeans or the other major cereals , maize ( corn ) or rice .
In terms of total production tonnages used for  खाना , it is फिलहाल दूसरी to राइस as the  main human food crop and ahead of maize , after allowing for maize 's more extensive use in animal feeds .
Wheat was a key factor enabling the emergence of city-based societies at the start of civilization because it was one of the first crops that could be easily cultivated  on a विशाल स्केल , और था the अतिरिक्त लाभ of yielding a कटाई  that provides long-term storage of food .
Wheat contributed to the emergence of city-states in the Fertile  crescent , सहित  the Babylonian and Assyrian empires .
Wheat grain is a staple food used to  मेक आटा लिये leavened , चपटा और steamed  breads , biscuits , cookies , cakes , breakfast cereal , pasta , noodles , couscous and for fermentation to make beer , other alcoholic beverages , or biofuel .
Wheat is planted to a limited extent as a forage crop for livestock , and its  स्ट्रॉ can be प्रयुक्त as a निर्माण  material for roofing thatch .
The whole grain can  be milled to छोड़ बस  the endosperm for white flour .
The by-products  of इस हैं चोकर  and germ .
The whole grain  is a concentrated  source of vitamins , minerals , and protein , while the refined grain is mostly starch .
मुद्रण
To publish  is to मेक सामग्री  available to the general public .
While specific use of the term may vary among countries , it is usually  लागू to टेक्स्ट  , images , or other audio-visual content on any traditional medium , including paper ( newspapers , magazines , catalogs , etc . ) .
The word publication means the act of publishing  , और भी refers to  any printed copies .
मेलिसा & जॉय is  an ABC Family original television series starring Melissa Joan Hart and Joey Lawrence .
It first aired on ABC Family on  अगस्त 17 , 2010  .
The series follows local politician Mel Burke ( Melissa Joan Hart ) and Joe Longo ( Joey Lawrence  ) , जिसको mel hires to dekh बाद उसके भांजी और  nephew after a Ponzi scheme leaves him broke .
The series was renewed by ABC Family for a second season of fifteen episodes , which  began airing on may 30 , 2012 और  ended on August 29 , 2012 .
Melissa & Joey ranks as cable TV 's # 1 telecast  at 8 o'clock आरपार निशाना  audiences 18–34 , 18–49 and 12–34 demographics .
On August 17 , 2012 , ABC Family renewed Melissa & Joey for a third season , set to  प्रीमियर in वसन्त 2013  .
The Dharma wheel , often used to represent  the प्रतिष्ठित eightfold पाथ
The Noble Eightfold Path ( , ) is one of the principal  शिक्षाओं of the बुद्ध  , who described it as the way leading to the cessation of suffering ( dukkha ) and the achievement of self-awakening .
It is used to develop insight into the true nature of phenomena ( or reality ) and to  eradicate लोभ , द्वेष  , and delusion .
The Noble Eightfold Path is the fourth of the  बुद्ध 's चार प्रतिष्ठित सच्चाई ; the पहला  element of the Noble Eightfold Path is , in turn , an understanding of the Four Noble Truths .
It is also known as  the मध्य पाथ or  Middle Way .
All eight elements of  the  Path begin with the word `` right '' , which translates the word samyañc ( in Sanskrit ) or sammā ( in Pāli ) .
These denote completion , togetherness , and coherence , and can also suggest  the होश of `` पूर्ण '' or `` आदर्श  '' .
'Samma ' is also translated as `` wholesome '' , ``  हिकमत  '' and `` skillful '' .
In Buddhist symbolism , the Noble Eightfold Path is often represented by means of the dharma  व्हील ( dharmachakra ) , जिनकी आठ तीलियां represent the आठ  elements of the path .
The Grammy Award for Song of the Year is an honor presented at the Grammy Awards , a ceremony that was established in 1958 and  originally पुकारा the gramophone पुरस्कार  .
पुरस्कार in अनेक श्रेणी हैं वितरित annually by the नेशनल अकादमी of रिकॉर्डिंग  Arts and Sciences of the United States to `` honor artistic achievement , technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry , without regard to album sales or chart position . ''
Economics is the social science that analyzes the production ,  वितरण , और खपत of goods  and services .
The term economics comes from the Ancient Greek ( ' , `` management of a household , administration '' ) from ( ' , `` house '' ) + ( ' , `` custom  '' or `` विधि '' ) , hence `` नियम of the  house ( hold ) '' .
Political economy was the earlier name for the subject , but economists in the late 19th  सदी सुझाया `` अर्थशास्त्र '' as a shorter पद लिये `` आर्थिक विज्ञान ''  that also avoided a narrow political-interest connotation and as similar in form to `` mathematics `` , `` ethics '' , and so forth .
A focus of the  विषय is कैसा आर्थिक एजेंटों  behave or interact and how economies work .
Consistent with this , a  प्राथमिक textbook भेद is between  microeconomics and macroeconomics .
Microeconomics examines the behavior of basic elements in the economy , including individual agents (  ऐसे as households और firms or as खरीदार और विक्रेता ) और  markets , and their interactions .
Macroeconomics analyzes the entire economy and issues affecting it , including unemployment ,  महंगाई  , economic growth , and monetary and fiscal policy .
Other broad distinctions include those  between धनात्मक अर्थशास्त्र ( describing `` कया is '' ) और normative अर्थशास्त्र  ( advocating `` what ought to be '' ) ; between economic theory and applied economics ; between rational and behavioral economics ; and between mainstream economics ( more `` orthodox '' and dealing with the `` rationality-individualism-equilibrium nexus '' ) and heterodox economics ( more `` radical '' and dealing with the `` institutions-history-social structure nexus '' ) .
Economic analysis may be applied throughout society , as in business , finance , health care , and government , but also to such diverse  विषय as अपराधों , शिक्षा , the परिवार , विधि  , politics , religion , social institutions , war , and science .
At the turn  of the 21st सदी , the expanding डोमेन  of economics in the social sciences has been described as economic imperialism .
An increasing number of economists have called  लिये increased जोर on पर्यावरणीय स्थिरता  ; this area of research is known as Ecological economics .
This is a list of Schedule IV drugs under the Controlled Substances Act for  the संयुक्त राज्य  .
जरूरी निष्कर्षों लिये दवाएँ  to be placed in this schedule:
The drug or other substance has a low potential for abuse  सापेक्ष to the दवाएँ or अन्य substances  in schedule III .
The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United  राज्य  .
Abuse of the drug or other substance may lead to limited physical dependence or psychological dependence relative to the drugs or other  substances  in schedule III .
The complete list  of अनुसूची  IV drugs are as follows .
The Administrative Controlled Substances  कोड क्रमांक लिये प्रत्येक ड्रग is शामिल  .
US county  household  median income 2009 .
Median US household  आय , 2001-2011
Household income is a measure commonly  प्रयुक्त by the  United States government and private institutions .
Each household is  measured by the  income of every resident over the age of 15 .
Income includes wages and salaries , unemployment insurance , disability payments , child support payments received , regular rental  रसीदें , as खूब as कोई निजी कारोबार , निवेश , or अन्य kinds of आय प्राप्त  routinely .
While inflation-adjusted ( `` real '' ) household income had been increasing  लगभग प्रत्येक साल इससे 1945 to 1999 ,  it has since been flat and even decreased recently .
U.S. median household income fell from $  51,144 in 2010 to $ 50,502  in 2011 .
Extreme poverty in the United States , meaning households living  on कम than $ 2 प्रति दिन पहले सरकारी लाभ , doubled इससे 1996  to 1.5 million households in 2011 , including 2.8 million children .
The residents of the household do not have to be related to the head of  the household लिये उनके आय to  be considered part of the household 's income .
As households tend to share  a समान आर्थिक कॉन्टेक्स्ट ,  the use of household income remains among the most widely accepted measures of income .
That the size of a household is not commonly taken into account in such measures may distort  कोई विश्लेषण of fluctuations भीतर or among the household  income categories , and may render direct comparisons between quintiles difficult or even impossible .
The lapse rate is defined as the rate of decrease with height for an  वायुमंडलीय परिवर्तनीय  .
The variable involved is  तापमान जबतक  specified otherwise .
The  शब्दावली arises इससे the शब्द  lapse in the sense of a decrease or decline .
While most often applied to Earth 's atmosphere the  अवधारणा can be विस्तारित  to any gravitationally supported ball of gas .
Blue  पहाड़ राज्य is an अमरीकी  comedy series that premiered on Spike on January 11 , 2010 .
The series  निर्माता शामिल क्रिस romano और eric  Falconer , and it is produced by Lionsgate Television .
The series is about a fictional university , Blue Mountain State , and  इसके फ़ुटबॉल टोली  , `` The Mountain Goats . ''
It  portrays निश्चित पहलुओं  of American university life , including football , sex , binge drinking , drugs , wild partying , and hazing .
In February 2012 , it was reported that Blue  पहाड़ राज्य होता नहीं be नवीनीकृत लिये a चौथी ऋतु  .
In March 2013 , Ed Marinaro stated that he is working on a  ब्लू पहाड़ राज्य फिल्मी .
Apple Inc. , formerly Apple Computer , Inc. , is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Cupertino , California that designs , develops ,  और बिकता उपभोक्ता इलेक्ट्रॉनिक्स , कंप्यूटर तन्त्र  and personal computers .
Its best-known hardware products are the Mac line of computers ,  the ipod म्यूज़िक  player , the iPhone smartphone , and the iPad tablet computer .
Its software includes the OS X and iOS  ऑपरेटिंग प्रणालियों , the itunes  media browser , the Safari web browser , and the iLife and iWork creativity and production suites .
The company was founded on April 1 , 1976 , and incorporated as Apple  कंप्यूटर , inc. on जनवरी 3 , 1977  .
The word `` Computer '' was removed from its name on January 9 , 2007 , reflecting its shifted focus towards  उपभोक्ता  electronics after the introduction of the iPhone .
Apple is the world 's  second-largest सूचना प्रौद्योगिकी कम्पनी by आय बाद  Samsung Electronics , and the world 's third-largest mobile phone maker after Samsung and Nokia .
Fortune magazine named Apple the most admired  कम्पनी in the संयुक्त राज्य in 2008 , और  in the world from 2008 to 2012 .
However , the company  रै प्राप्त आलोचना लिये इसके ठेकेदारों  ' labor practices , and for Apple 's own environmental and business practices .
, Apple maintains 394 retail  स्टोर्स  in fourteen countries as well as the online Apple Store and iTunes Store .
It is the second-largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalization , with an  अनुमानित मान of us $ 414 अरब as of जनवरी  2013 .
,  the कम्पनी था 72,800 स्थाई  full-time employees and 3,300 temporary full-time employees worldwide .
Its worldwide annual  आय in 2012 totalled  $ 156 billion .
Section 8 housing in  the दक्षिण  Bronx
Section 8 of the Housing Act of 1937 ( ) , often simply known as Section 8 , as repeatedly  amended , authorizes the भुगतान of rental आवास  assistance to private landlords on behalf of approximately 3.1 million low-income households .
It operates through several programs , the largest of which , the  आवास चुनाव वाउचर  program , pays a large portion of the rents and utilities of about 2.1 million households .
the  US Department of Housing and Urban Development manages the Section 8 programs .
The Housing Choice Voucher Program provides `` tenant-based '' rental  सहायता , so a किरायेदार can  move from one unit of at least minimum housing quality to another .
It also allows individuals to apply their monthly voucher towards the purchase  of a घर , साथ over $ 17  billion going towards such purchases each year ( from ncsha.org analysis ) .
The maximum allowed  वाउचर is $ 2200  a month .
Section 8 also authorizes a variety of `` project-based '' rental assistance programs , under which the owner reserves some or all of the units in a building for  low-income किरायेदारों , in वापसी लिये a संघीय सरकारी गारंटी to मेक up the अंतर between the  tenant 's contribution and the rent for 1 cent in the owner 's contract with the government .
A tenant who leaves a  subsidized प्रोजेक्ट  will lose access to the project-based subsidy .
The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and United States Department of Veterans  अफेयर्स have a खास खण्ड 8 कार्यक्रम पुकारा vash ( दिग्गजों अफेयर्स  Supportive Housing ) , or HUD-VASH , which gives out a certain number of Section 8 vouchers to eligible homeless and otherwise vulnerable US armed forces veterans .
Restaurants categorized by type and information about  ये अलग प्रकार  .
U.S. Federal Reserve notes in  the mid-1990s
The history of the United States dollar covers more than 200   years .
