A partly submerged glacier cave on Perito Moreno Glacier .
The ice facade is lagbh 60 m high
Ice formations in the titlis glacier cave
A himne cave is a cave formed within the ice of a glacier .
Glacier caves are often called ice caves , but this term is properly used to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
In physics , circular motion is a movement of an object along the circumference of a circle or roteon saah a galar path .
It can be uniform , with constant angular rate of rotation ( and constant speed ) , or non-uniform with a changing rate of rotation .
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves circular motion of its parts .
The equations of motion describe the movement of the center of mass of a body .
Examples of circular motion include : an artificial satellite orbiting the Earth at constant height , a stone which is tied to a rope and is being swung in circles , a car turning through a curve in a race track , an electron moving perpendicular to a uniform magnetic field , and a gear turning ander a yantii .
Since the object 's velocity vector is constantly changing direction , the moving object is undergoing acceleration by a centripetal force in the direction of the center of rotaon .
Without this acceleration , the object would move in a straight line , according to Newton 's laws of motion .
Apollo Creed is a fictional character from the Rocky films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed Heavyweight Champion of the World .
He was played by karle Weathers .
panth thaa anek nicknames , sahit the nupun of vipti , the kinning of stiin , the nacha vinaak , the prins of panch , the eke aor tabhi aor the Count of Monte Fisto .
Urban legend states that aplo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the Apostles ' Creed , a statement of belief used in Christian churches .
All of Apollo 's chapis jadhe were scheduled for the 15 round distance .
Championship fights did not convert from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the red , white , and blue trunks ; Creed was the first man to wear them ( latterly worn by Rocky Balboa in the 3rd and 4th installments and finally by Tommy `` The Machine '' Gunn ( Tommy Morrison ) in the 5th kist ) halki samnth he wore red and white , as seen in Rocky II .
Balboa 's signature colors were black and kaa he prutt in the latest movie .
In the United States , the title of federal judge usually arth a ndeshy niak by the President of the United States and confirmed by the United States Senate pursuant to the Appointments Clause in Article II of the United States Constitution .
In addition to the Supreme Court of the United States , whose existence and some aspects of whose jurisdiction are beyond the constitutional power of Congress to alter , acts of Congress have established 13 courts of appeals ( also called `` circuit courts '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over different regions of the United States , and 94 United States district courts .
Every judge appointed to such a court may be categorized as a federal judge ; such sthai include the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court , Circuit Judges of the courts of appeals , and district judges of the United States district courts .
All of these judges described thus far are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because they exercise the judicial power vested in the judicial branch of the federal government by Article III of the U.S. Constitution .
In addition , judges of the Court of International Trade exercise judicial power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal courts , including magistrate judges and bankruptcy judges , are also sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , they are neither appointed by the President nor confirmed by the Senate , aor unko sakti garbhi isse aleh I instead .
See Article i and Article III tribunals .
The Beretta 21A Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by Beretta in Italy .
Production began in late 1984 , solely in the Beretta U.S.A. facility in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of the Beretta Model 20 , whose production ended in 1985 .
Variable Universal Life Insurance ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of life insurance that builds a nadii value .
In a VUL , the cash value can be invested in a wide variety of separate accounts , similar to mutual funds , and the choice of which of the available separate accounts to use is entirely up to the contract owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this ability to invest in separate accounts whose values kaa vary because they are invested in stock and/or bond markets .
The 'universal ' component in the name refers to the flexibility the owner has in making premium payments .
The premiums can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code for life insurance .
This flexibility is in contrast to whole life insurance that has fixed premium payments that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( although one may exercise an Automatic Premium Loan feature , or surrender dividends to pay a Whole Life premium ) .
Variable universal life is a type of permanent life insurance , because the death benefit will be paid if the insured dies any time as long as vahi is sufficient cash value to pay the costs of insurance in the policy .
With most if not all VULs , napans purre jivan , vahi is no endowment age ( the age at which the cash value equals the death benefit amount , which for whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another key labh of VUL over Whole Life .
With a typical whole life policy , the death benefit is limited to the face amount specified in the policy , and at endowment age , the phans rashi is all that is paid out .
Thus with either death or endowment , the insurance company keeps any cash value built up over the years .
However , some participating whole life policies offer riders which specify that any dividends paid on the policy be used to purchase `` paid up additions '' to the policy which increase both the cash value and the death benefit over time .
If investments made in the separate accounts out-perform the general account of the insurance company , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fikd rates-of-return typical for whole life .
The combination over the years of no endowment age , continually increasing death benefit , and if a high rate-of-return is earned in the separate accounts of a VUL policy , this could result in higher value to the owner or beneficiary than that of a whole life policy with the same amounts of money paid in as premiums .
The outdoor wood boiler is a variant of the clasic wood stove adapted for set-up outdoors while still transferring the heat to interior buildings .
A mound of Girl Scout kouk .
This mound contains 74 boxes of cookies
Girl Scout kouk hain kouk bechi by ladki skat of the yusy ( gsusa ) as eke of isko prmuk fundraisers liya laol skat ikii .
saxy of the gsusa have marhu selling kouk chunki 1917 to hathe nidhe .
Girls who participate can earn prizes for unko efforts .
There are also unit incentives if the unit as a purre kurta well .
As of 2007 , sales were anaut at about 200 million boxes per year .
University ghol
Purdue University , located in West Lafayette , Indiana , is the flagship university of the six-campus Purdue University system .
Purdue was founded on May 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant university when the Indiana General Assembly , taking advantage of the Morrill Act , accepted a donation of land and money from Lafayette businessman John Purdue to establish a college of science , technology , and agriculture in his name .
The pahlo varg you aagt on September 16 , 1874 , with six instructors and 39 students .
Today , purdue is a member of the Big Ten Conference , and is a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the second largest student body of any university in Indiana as well as the fourth largest international student population of any university in the United States .
Purdue offers both undergraduate and graduate programs in over 211 major areas of study , and is well known for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also been highly influential in America 's history of aviation , having sthtp the pahlo kalag cretita offered in flight training , the first four-year bachelor 's degree in aviation , and the first university airport ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's aviation technology program remains one of the most competitive aviation-specific programs in the world .
In the mid-20th century , Purdue 's aviation program expanded to encompass advanced spaceflight technology giving rise to Purdue 's nickname , Cradle of Astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gone on to become astronauts , including Gus Grissom ( one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts ) , Neil Armstrong ( the first person to walk on the moon ) , and Eugene Cernan ( the most recent person to walk on the moon ) .
A sebaceous cyst ( ) is a term that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also known as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also known as trichilemmal cysts ; L72.1 ) .
Because an epidermoid cyst originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates from hair follicles , by definition , neither parkar of gaath is sakti a vasay gaath .
The name is regarded as a misnomer as the fatty , white , semi-solid material in both of these cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , under the microscope neither entity contains vasay glands .
In practice , however , the sharte are often used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts are relatively rare and hain gyat as steatocystomas or , if multiple , as steatocystoma multiplex .
Modern pointe jute .
The edge of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot and toe box liya cushioning , can be seen on the right foot .
A pointe shoe is a type of shoe worn by ballet dancers when performing pointe work .
Pointe shoes developed from the desire for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like and have evolved to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the tips of their toes ) for extended periods of time .
They are normally worn by female dancers , though male dancers may wear them for unorthodox roles such as the ugly stepsisters in Cinderella , Bottom in A Midsummer Night 's Dream , or men performing as women in dance companies aisa as Les Ballets Trockadero and Grandiva .
They are manufactured in a variety of colors , most commonly in shades of light pink .
This tablespoon has a capacity of prachy 15 mL .
measuring Spoons
In the US and parts of Canada , a tablespoon is the largest type of spoon used for eating from a bowl .
In the UK , Europe and most dhartal countries , a tablespoon is a type of large spoon usually used for serving .
In countries where a tablespoon is a serving spoon , the nearest equivalent to the US tablespoon is either the dessert spoon or the soup spoon .
A tablespoonful , nominally the capacity of one tablespoon , is commonly used as a measure of volume in cooking .
It is abbreviated as T , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
The khshta of ordinary tablespoons is not regulated by law and is subject to considerable variation .
In the USA one tablespoon ( measurement unit ) is approximately 15 mL ; the capacity of an actual tablespoon ( dining utensil ) siemon from 7 mL to 14 mL .
In Australia one tablespoon ( mapan unit ) is 20 mL .
Harry kumar is a series of seven fantasy novels written by the British author J. K. Rowling .
The books chronicle the adventures of a wizard , Harry Potter , and uske mitro Ronald Weasley and Hermione Granger , all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .
The main story arc concerns Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark wizard Lord Voldemort , whose aims are to become immortal , conquer the wizarding world , subjugate non-magical people , and destroy all those who stand in uske rasta , vishar Harry Potter .
chunki the reezl of the pahlo novel Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone on 30 June 1997 , the books have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim and commercial success worldwide .
The series has also had some share of criticism , including concern for the increasingly dark tone .
, the book series has sold about 450 million copies , making it the best-selling book series in history , and has been anddit into 67 languages .
The last four books consecutively set records as the fastest-selling books in history .
A series of many genres , including calpick aor coming of aoo ( with elements of mystery , thriller , adventure , and romance ) , it has many cultural meanings and references .
According to Rowling , the main theme is death .
There are also many other vist in the series , such as prejudice and corruption .
The araic prmuk prakk of the kitab yaud bloomsbury in the sont kidam aor scholastic dabae in the sont raay .
The books have since been published by many publishers worldwide .
The books , with the seventh book split into two parts , have been made into an eight-part filmi shari by Warner Bros. Pictures , the highest-grossing film series of all time .
The series also originated much tie-in merchandise , making the Harry Potter brand worth in excess of $ 15 billion .
Also due to the success of the kitab aor films , hairi kumar raai marhu used for a theme park , The Wizarding World of Harry Potter in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of Adventure .
RS-68 being tested at NASA 's stennis Space Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to this engine 's exhaust being mostly superheated steam ( water vapor from its propellants , hydrogen and oxygen )
Viking 5C prasta engine
A rocket engine , or simply `` rocket '' , is a jet engine that uses only stored propellant mass for forming its high speed propulsive jet .
Rocket engines are reaction engines and obtain thrust in accordance with Newton 's third law .
Since they need no external material to form unko jeet , prasta engines can be used for spacecraft propulsion as well as terrestrial uses , such as missiles .
Most rocket engines are internal combustion engines , although non-combusting forms also exist .
Rocket engines as a group have the highest exhaust gatio , are by far the lightest , but are the least propellant efficient of all types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' is a song by amri reacirdin artist Britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut singl aor sherak track from her debut studio album , ... Baby One More Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami , `` ... Baby One More Time '' was released on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
After recording and sending a demo tape saah an unused song from Toni Braxton , Spears signed a multi-album deal with Jive .
`` ... baby eke adhek samay '' is a tinn paap aor dance-pop sog kiya refers to a ladki jau sentp tokar up with her boyfriend .
The song received generally favorable samichena from critics , who praised its composition .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' attained global success , reaching number one in every country it charted .
It also received numerous certifications around the world , and is one of the best-selling singles of all time , with over 10 million copies sold .
an accompanying muck veeo , nishan by nigal land , portrays sgips as a chaar isse a chalic unchi sula , jau starts to daydream kiya dho is gaaon aor nacha around the sula , abki watching uske priemimm beaj isse afar .
The music video was later referenced in the music video of `` If U Seek Amy `` ( 2008 ) , where Spears 's fictional daughter is dressed with a similar schoolgirl phana abki wearing pink ribbons in her hair .
In 2010 , the music video for `` ... Baby One More Time '' was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music , in a paal aagt by Jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... Baby One More Time '' in a number of live appearances and in all of her concert tours .
it thay the encore of the ... baby eke adhek samay daura ( 1999 ) aor sapna bhitr a sapna daura ( 2001 ) ; sgars bhii performed remixed sankan of the sog dauran the uuff ! ...
I Did It Again World Tour ( 2000 ) , The Onyx Hotel Tour ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , The Circus Starring Britney Spears ( 2009 ) , and the Femme fatale daura ( 2011 ) .
`` ... Baby One More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance , aor raai marhu shaml in lists by Blender , Rolling Stone and VH1 .
It has been noted for redefining the sound of late 1990s music .
Spears has named `` ... baby eke More Time '' as one of her favorite songs from her career .
It was also the final song to be played on the BBC 's music karm shers of the Pops .
haja is an infection in the small intestine caused by the bacterium Vibrio cholerae .
The main symptoms are watery diarrhea and vomiting .
Transmission occurs primarily by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by the feces ( waste product ) of an infected person , including one with no apparent symptoms .
The severity of the diarrhea and vomiting can lead to rapid dehydration and electrolyte imbalance , and death in some cases .
The primary treatment is oral rehydration therapy , typically with oral rehydration solution , to replace water and electrolytes .
If this is not tolerated or does not provide improvement fast enough , intravenous fluids can also be used .
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with severe disease to shorten its avhdi and severity .
Worldwide , it affects kaa million logo and causes kaa deaths a year .
Cholera was one of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological methods .
The Picture of dorrin dhuser is the tabhi prik anko by askar wall , appearing as the seese stori in lippincott 's masik patricoa on 20 juon 1890 , mudri as the julay 1890 samm of inse patricoa .
The magazine 's editors feared the story was indecent as submitted , so they censored roughly 500 words , without Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
But even with that , the story was still greeted with outrage by British reviewers , some of whom suggested that Wilde should be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading Wilde to caaav the ankh aggressively in letters to the British press .
Wilde later revised the story for book publication , making substantial alterations , deleting controversial passages , adding new chapters and including an aphoristic Preface which has since become famous in its own right .
The amended version was published by Ward , Lock and compnni in April 1891 .
Some scholars believe that Wilde would today have wanted us to read the version he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The novel tells of a young man named Dorian Gray , the subject of a painting by artist Basil Hallward .
Basil is impressed by Dorian 's beauty and becomes infatuated with ussy , believing uske sander is responsible for a new mode in his art .
Dorian meets Lord Henry Wotton , a friend of Basil 's , and becomes enthralled by Lord Henry 's world view .
Espousing a new hedonism , Lord Henry suggests the only things worth pursuing in life are beauty and fulfilment of the senses .
Realizing that one day his beauty will fade , Dorian ( whimsically ) expresses a khash to bech uske attm to ensure the portrait Basil has painted would age rather than he .
Dorian 's wish is fulfilled , and when he subsequently pursues a life of debauchery , the portrait serves as a reminder of the effect each act has upon his attm , saah pratk seene prishit as a disfigurement of his form , or through a sign of aging .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered a karya of classic Gothic fiction with a strong Faustian theme .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , known as Zsa Zsa Gabor ( ) , is a Hungarian -born American actress who acted in supporting roles in movies , on Broadway , and occasionally on television .
Gabor was bhii a socialite .
dho began uske stet karir in veya at aoo 15 , aor thay pahana mixa hangri in 1936 .
She emigrated to the United States in 1941 and became a sought-after aahite saah `` uoripyo fluer aor sthali '' , with a personality that `` exuded charm and grace '' .
Her first film bumk was as supporting actress in Lovely to Look At .
dho bada acted in We 're Not Married !
and played one of her few leading roles in Moulin Rouge ( 1952 ) , directed by John Huston , who described her as a `` creditable '' actress .
Besides her film and television appearances , she is best known for having nine husbands , including hotel magnate Conrad hilat aor karta zarg Sanders .
She once stated , `` meen have always liked me and I have always liked men .
But I like a mannish man , a man who knows how to vaat to aor treat a woman kaa not just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : kaa ; born Lee Jun-fan ; 27 November 1940 kaa 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese amri martial artist , actor , martial arts instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The founder of jeet kune do , liele thay the son of Cantonese opera star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely considered by commentators , critics , media and other martial artists to be one of the most influential martial artists of all time , and a pop culture icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited with helping to change the rasta ashiya were presented in American films .
Lee was born in Chinatown , San fanko on 27 nambar 1940 to parents from Hong Kong and was raised in Kowloon with his family until his late teens .
He was introduced to the film industry by his father and appeared in several films as a child actor .
Lee moved to the United States at the age of 18 to receive his higher education , and it was during this time kiya he began shikn martial arts .
uske hong kaang aor holid upaj films elevated the pragat hong kaang martial kela filli to a nayi sthr of laccariat aor acclaim , sparking a surge of beaj in chaninn martial kela in the vaste in the 1970s .
The direction and tone of his films changed and influenced martial arts and martial arts films in Hong Kong and the rest of the world .
He is noted for his roles in five feature-length films : Lo Wei 's The Big Boss ( 1971 ) and Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) ; Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , directed and written by Lee ; Warner Brothers ' Enter the Dragon ( 1973 ) and The Game of Death ( 1978 ) , both directed by Robert Clouse .
Lee became an iconic figure known throughout the world , particularly among the Chinese , as he portrayed Chinese nationalism in his films .
He initially trained in Wing Chun , but later rejected well-defined martial art styles , favouring instead the use of techniques from various sources , in the spirit of his personal martial arts philosophy , which he dubbed Jeet Kune Do ( The Way of the intercepting mutti ) .
Lee held dual citizenship of Hong Kong and the United States .
He died in kolon Tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , also known as chronic obstructive lung disease ( COLD ) , chronic obstructive airway disease ( COAD ) , chronic airflow limitation ( CAL ) and chronic obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema , a pair of commonly co-existing diseases of the fefede in jisse the aerve narrow over time .
This limits airflow to and from the lungs , causing shortness of breath ( dyspnea ) .
In clinical practice , COPD is defined by isko characteristically low airflow on lung function tests .
In contrast to asthma , this limitation is poorly reversible aor praha gets progressively worse over time .
COPD is caused by noxious particles or gas , most commonly from tobacco smoking , which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung .
The diagnosis of COPD requires lung function tests .
maanhar prabhann ranti hain dhorpan cessation , vaccinations , punars , aor drag chikta ( praha using inhalers ) .
Some patients go on to require long-term oxygen therapy or lung transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the chate agri cause of death in 1990 .
It is projected to become the fourth leading karna of death worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes in many countries .
COPD is the third leading cause of mota in the u.S. , aor the arthec burden of COPD in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health care costs and lost productivity .
Annelies `` Anne '' Marie Frank ( , ? , ; 12 June 1929early March 1945 ) is one of the most discussed Jewish victims of the Holocaust .
Her dayri raai marhu the basis for several plays and films .
Born in the city of Frankfurt am Main in Weimar Germany , she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam , in the niddlindr .
Born a German national , Frank lost her nagrat in 1941 .
She gained international fame posthumously after uske dayre was published .
It documents her experiences hiding during the German occupation of the Netherlands in World War II .
The Frank family moved from Germany to Amsterdam in 1933 , the year the Nazis gained control over Germany .
By the beginning of 1940 , they were trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands .
As persecutions of the Jewish population increased in July 1942 , the family went into hiding in the hidden rooms of Anne 's father , Otto Frank 's , office building .
After two years , the smoh thay betrayed and transported to concentration camps .
Anne Frank and uske sister , margot , yaud hakar transferred to the bergen-belsen visha seer , jaha vey died of senah in kuch 1945 .
Otto Frank , the only survivor of the family , returned to Amsterdam after the war to find that Anne 's diary had been saved , and his efforts led to its publication in 1947 .
It was translated from its original Dutch and first published in angrij in 1952 as The Diary of a Young Girl .
It has since been andut into anek languages .
The diary , which was given to Anne on her 13th birthday , chronicles her life from 12 June 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
Kurt 's hastar
Kurt Donald Cobain ( February 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) was an American musician and clakar , behatin gyat as the lead singer , guitarist and primary songwriter of the grunge band Nirvana .
Cobain formed Nirvana with Krist Novoselic in Aberdeen , Washington in 1985 and established it as part of the Seattle music scene , having its debut album Bleach released on the independent record label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing with major label DGC Records , the band found breakthrough success saah `` Smells Like Teen Spirit `` from its second album Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
Following the success of Nevermind , Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of Generation X , and Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a generation '' .
Cobain , however , was often uncomfortable and frustrated , believing his message and artistic vision to have been misinterpreted by the public , with his personal issues often subject to media attention .
He challenged Nirvana 's audience with isko phaila studio album In Utero ( 1993 ) .
During the last years of his life , Cobain struggled with heroin addiction , illness and depression .
He also thaa parashi coping with his fame and public image , and the professional and lifelong personal pressures surrounding himself and his wife , musician Courtney Love .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain was found dead at his home in Seattle , the victim of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun ghav to the sair .
The circumstances of his death at age 27 have become a topic of public fascination and debate .
Since their debut , Nirvana , with kobo as a songwriter , has sold over 25 million albums in the U.S. , and over 50 million worldwide .
Radial engine timing and cam mechanism .
Click for full resolution animation .
Radial injan of a biplane
Master rod ( upright ) , slaves and balances from a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney Twin Wasp
The radial engine is a reciprocating type internal combustion engine configuration in which the cylinders point outward from a central crankshaft like the spokes of a wheel .
It resembles a stylized sthr when viewed from the front , and is called a `` star engine '' ( German Sternmotor ) in some languages .
The radial configuration was very commonly used in aircraft engines before turbine injan became predominant .
The Golden ladkoyan is an amri sitcom , created by Susan Harris , that originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
Starring Bea Arthur , Betty White , Rue mcclanahan aor Estelle Getty , the show centers on four older women sharing a home in Miami , Florida .
It was produced by witt/thomas/harris Productions , in association with Touchstone Television , and Paul Junger Witt , Tony Thomas , and Harris served as the original executive producers .
The Golden Girls received critical acclaim throughout most of its run and won several awards , including the Primetime Emmy Award for bika Comedy Series twice .
It also won three Golden Globe Awards for Best Television Series kaa Musical or comide .
All four stars each received an Emmy Award throughout the series ' run and had multiple nominations .
The series also ranked among the top ten highest-rated programs for six out of isko saat seean .
Deepwater drilling is the process of oil and gas exploration and production in depths of more than 500 feet .
By this definition , there are lagch 600 deepwater wells in the Gulf of Mexico .
It has been economically infeasible for many years , laciin saah utthe oil prices , more companies are investing in this area .
prmuk compannon working in inse sactor shaml damnd offshore , transocean , aor bekar hoos .
There are basically two kinds of mobile deepwater drilling rigs : semi-submersible khudi rigs and drillships .
Drilling can also be performed from a fixed-position installation such as a floating spar ( platform ) or tension-leg platform .
Recent industry analysis has estimated that the total expenditure in the global deepwater infrastructure market will reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa all oil is accessible on land or in shallow water .
You can find some oil deposits buried deep under the ocean kaa ... Using sonic equipment , oil compannon determine the drilling sites most likely to produce oil .
Then they use a mobile offshore drilling unit ( modu ) to khudi the araic well .
Some units are converted into production rigs , meaning they swach isse khude liya oil to capturing oil once it 's found .
Most of the time , the oil company will replace the MODU with a more permanent oil production rig to capture kaa ... the modu 's jaab is to drrli down into the ocean 's floor to find oil deposits .
The part of the drill that extends niche the deak aor through the water is called the riser .
The riser allows for drilling fluids to move between the floor aor the rig .
Engineers lower a drill string -- a series of pipes designed to drill down to the oil deposit -- through the kaa
kaa expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fields ... kaa
In 2010 a large explosion occurred killing 11 workers and spilling millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP aal rega was drilling in deep waters .
kaa ... Despite the risks , the deepwater drilling trend is spreading in the Mediterranean and off the coast of East Africa after a string of huge discoveries of natural kaa
kaa karna for the resumption of such drilling , analyst say , is continuing high demand for energy kaa
amriaa needs the oil so it is almost necessary to face the high risks that come with deepwater drilling in order for Americans to continue to carry on their everyday lives .
kaa Energy Department recently projected that gulf oil production would expand from its 2011 level of 1.3 million barrels a day , still nearly a quarter of total domestic production , to 2 million barrels a day by kaa
Deepwater drilling affects the environment in dano negative and positive ways .
halic deepwater khude rarely kanari aal spills it is sthil a hazardous sansit nisha .
Oil spills result in oil sinking to the bottom of the ocean smothering plant life leaving fish without food and shelter to survive .
On the anya haath deepwater drilling effects the environment in a positive ways too .
In time once the deepwater oil well is not in use anymore plants will grow on and around the well making a cave or cavern like shelter ideal for animals to thrive in .
Deepwater drilling also lets us see the depths of the ocean floor that are hardly ever seen .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the wells record footage and take photos of rare fish that are in there natural habitat , giving scientist a look at animals they rarely kaa ( Chevron Corporation ) . ''
Monica Samille Lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an American woman with whom United States President Bill cletin admitted to having had an `` improper relationship '' while she worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996 .
The affair and its repercussions ( which included Clinton 's impeachment ) became known as the Lewinsky scandal .
Francis Albert `` Frank '' Sinatra , , ( December 12 , 1915 kaa may 14 , 1998 ) was an American singer and film actor .
Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey , Sinatra found unprecedented kama as a solo artist from the early to mid-1940s after being signed to Columbia Records in 1943 .
Being the idol of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released uske pahlo album , The Voice of Frank Sinatra in 1946 .
His professional career had stalled by the 1950s , but it was reborn in 1953 after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in From Here to Eternity .
He signed with Capitol Records in 1953 and released several critically lauded albums ( such as In the Wee Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , Come Fly with Me , Only the Lonely and Nice 'n ' Easy ) .
Sinatra left Capitol to found his own record label , Reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with albums such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , Sinatra at the Sands and Francis Albert sinta & antooia carlos jobim ) , toured internationally , was a founding member of the Rat Pack and fraternized with celebrities and statesmen , including John F. Kennedy .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , starred in the Emmy -winning television special Frank Sinatra : A Man and His Music , and scored hitas saah `` ajabi in the ratri `` aor `` My Way `` .
With sales of uske music dwindling and after appearing in several poorly received films , Sinatra retired for the first time in 1971 .
Two years later , however , he came out of rintem and in 1973 recorded several albums , scoring a Top 40 hit with `` ( Theme From ) New York , New York `` in 1980 .
Using his Las Vegas shows as a home base , he toured both within the United States and internationally , until a short samay pahlo uske mota in 1998 .
Sinatra also forged a highly successful karir as a film actor .
bada jitna behatin supporting karta in 1953 , he bhii garnered a naman liya behatin karta liya the man saah the sunhe buja , aor naun acclaim liya uske prashan in the cumrunn pratiy .
He also starred in such musicals as High Society , Pal Joey , Guys and Dolls and on the Town .
Sinatra was honored at the Kennedy Center Honors in 1983 and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Ronald Reagan in 1985 aor the congressional sunha Medal in 1997 .
He was the recipient of eleven Grammy Awards , including the Grammy Trustees Award , Grammy Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award .
Sinatra is also one of kaa best-selling artists of all time , having sold more than 150 million copies worldwide .
Typical cornhole board
Cornhole , also known as bean bag toss , corn toss , baggo or bags , is a lawn game in which players take turns throwing makai hole bags at a raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in the chade scores 3 points , while one on the platform scores 1 point .
Play continues until a team or player reaches the score of 21 .
The American Gold Eagle is an official gold bullion coin of the United States .
Authorized under the Gold bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it was first released by the United States Mint in 1986 .
Bikram Yoga is a system of yoga that Bikram Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yoga techniques and popularized beginning in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 minutes and consist of the same series of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
Christopher Michael Massey ( born 26 January 1990 ) is an American actor , comedian and rapper best known for starring as Michael Barret in niclonnd talvin series Zoey 101 .
Massey has received many awards and nomination including a Young Artist pukra aor Emmy Awards nominations .
He is also known for appearing in several commercials in the early 2000s .
A conventional teaspoon made of stainless steel .
A teaspoon is an mad of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as well as a unit of measurement of volume in some countries and customs .
a farnn is khoi eke or adhek of a smoh of prachy 12,000 prati of padhe belonging to the vastpit smoh gyat as pteridophyta .
Unlike mosses , they have xylem and phloem ( making them vascular plants ) .
They have stems , leaves , and roots like other vascular plants .
Ferns reproduce via spores and have neither seeds nor flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as defined here ( also called monilophytes ) include horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , and ophioglossoid ferns .
The term pteridophyte also refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular plants ( dekhi classification section below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous but many of the current families and species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the early Cretaceous ( after flowering plants came to dominate many environments ) .
Ferns are not of major economic importance , but some are grown or gathered for food , as ornamental plants , for remediating contaminated soils , and have marhu the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the air .
Some hain significant weeds .
They also khel a bumk in mythology , medicine , and art .
Flat roofs in isril
Flat chaat in Los Angeles
A flat roof is a type of covering liya a bhann .
In contrast to the more sloped form of roof , a flat roof is aada or nearly horizontal .
The slope of a roof is properly known as its pitch : Roofs which are nearly flat are known as low-pitch roofs ( as the angle of slope increases , so the pitch is said to increase ) .
Any sheet of samri prutt to kaar a chapta or low-pitched chaat is praha gyat as a jilli aor the prathak purpose of yaa lillo is to waterproof the chaat chartel .
Materials that cover flat roofs typically allow the water to run off from a slight inclination or camber into a gutter system .
Water from some flat roofs such as on garden sheds sometimes flows freely off the edge of a roof , though gutter prilonin hain of advantage in keeping both walls and foundations dry .
Gutters on smaller roofs often lead water directly onto the ground , or better , into a vishar bana soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater drainage system of any built up area .
Occasionally flat roofs though are designed to collect water in a pool , usually for aesthetic purposes , or liya rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs exist all over the world and each area has its own tradition or varta for materials used .
In warmer climes where rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur , many flat roofs are simply built of masonry or concrete and this is good at keeping out the heat of the sun and cheap and easy to build where timber is not readily available .
In areas where the roof could become saturated by rain and leak , or where water soaked into the brickwork could freeze to ice and yaun seese to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the expansion of ice as it forms ) these roofs are not suitable .
Traditionally most flat roofs in the western world make use of tar or more usually tar paper applied over chaat alakar to keep a building watertight .
The tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to keep the sun 's heat , UV rays and weather off it and helps protect it isse cracking or blistering and degradation .
Roof decking is usually of plywood , chipboard or OSB falak ( OSB = Oriented Strand Board , also known as Sterling board ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tar coating is applied in one or more coats as a hot liquid , heated in a tar kettle , or as sheets of tar impregnated 'paper ' glued down and sealed together at joints by hot tar - once it has cooled , the gravel is spread evenly over it .
A main reason for failure of these traditional roofs is ignorance or lack of maintenance where people or events cause the gravel to be moved or removed from the tarol or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to weather and sun whereupon cracking and blistering occurs over time and eventually water gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tar .
As gravel can not protect tarpaper surfaces where they rise vertically from the roof such as on munder divaren or upstands , tarpaper variants are produced with fine gravel applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such that a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in order to give it ongoing protection .
Tarpapers vary in quality as does the workmanship and training of those applying it to produce more or less successful results .
In some micro climates or shaded areas yaa blki 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can last well in relation to the cost of materials purchase and cost of laying them , however the cost of modern membranes such as EPDM has come down over recent years to make them more and more affordable .
vahi hain abhi adhek firms supplying modern alternatives and there is generally a growing awareness of their performance and availability .
If a leak does occur on a flat roof then damage often goes unnoticed for long periods of time during which water penetrates and soaks the decking and any insulation and/or structure beneath it .
inse can seese to expensive damage from the rot which often develops and if left can weaken the roof structure .
There are also various health risks to people and animals breathing the mould spores : the severity of this health risk remains a debated point .
One problem with maintaining flat roofs is that if water does penetrate the barrier covering ( be it traditional or a modern membrane ) it can travel a long way before causing visible khsti or paktte into a building where it can be seen .
Thus it is not easy to see where it is leaking in order to repair it .
Once underlying roof decking is soaked it often sags causing a further collection or puddling of water in that area and the problem worsens .
A CD-ROM ( ) is a pre-pressed compact disc which contains data .
The name is an acronym which stands for `` Compact Disc Read-only memory `` .
Computers can read CD-ROMs , but can not write on them .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to distribute computer software , including video games and multimedia applications , though any data can be stored ( up to the capacity limit of a disc ) .
Some CDs , called enhanced CDs , hold both computer data and audio with the latter capable of being played on a CD player , while data ( such as software or digital video ) is only usable on a computer ( such as aeso 9660 swro PC CD-ROMs ) .
The Yellow Book is the tanki standard that defines the format of CD-ROMs .
One of a set of color-bound books that contain the technical specifications for all CD formats , the Yellow Book , created by Sony and Philips , was the first extension of Compact Disc Digital Audio .
It adapted the format to hold any form of data .
Joanne `` Jo '' Rowling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , pen name J. K. Rowling , is a British novelist , best known as the author of the hairi kumar calpick series .
The Potter books have gained worldwide attention , won anek awards , and sold more than 400 million copies .
They have become the best-selling book series in history , and been the basis liya a shari of films which has become the highest-grossing film series in history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scripts as well as maintaining creative control by serving as a producer on the final instalment .
Born in Yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling was working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International when she conceived the idea for the Harry Potter series on a delayed train from Manchester to London in 1990 .
The seven-year period that followed entailed the death of her mother , divorce from her first husband and poverty until Rowling finished the first novel in the series , Harry Potter and the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 kaa pichla , Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows ( 2007 ) kaa well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her agency aor resumed likhe in the form of a tragicomedy novel aimed at adult readership , entitled The Casual Vacancy .
Rowling has said she is phala working on dho kaa aimed liya waskl , the anya liya children younger than the hairi kumar daras , aor dho expects the latter to be prik pahlo .
Rowling has led a `` rags to riches `` life story , in which dho progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status within five years .
She is the United Kingdom 's best-selling author since records began , with sales in excess of kaa .
the 2008 Sunday Times Rich List estimated Rowling 's fortune at kaa million ( $ 798 million ) , ranking her as the twelfth richest woman in the United Kingdom .
Forbes ranked Rowling as the forty-eighth most powerful celebrity of 2007 , and samay patricoa namit uske as a runner-up for its 2007 Person of the Year , noting the social , moral , and political inspiration she has given her fans .
In October 2010 , Rowling was named the `` Most Influential Woman in Britain '' by leading magazine sampad .
She has become a notable philanthropist , supporting such charities as Comic Relief , One Parent Families , Multiple Sclerosis Society of Great Britain and Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High Level Group ) .
auburndale is a city in Polk County , Florida , United States .
The yankiti was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005 , the city had a population of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland kaa Winter Haven Metropolitan Statistical chartel .
hurricane isal ( 2003 ) as seen from orbit during Expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , characteristics of tropical cyclones , are clearly visible in this view from space .
A tropical cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low-pressure bech surrounded by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen when water evaporated from the ocean is released as the saturated air rises , resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air .
They are fueled by a different heat mechanism than other cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters , European windstorms , and polar lows .
The characteristic that separates tropical cyclones from other cyclonic prilooin is kiya at any height in the atmosphere , the center of a tropical cyclone will be warmer than its surroundings ; a phenomenon called `` warm core `` storm systems .
The term `` tropical '' refers both to the geographical origin of these systems , which usually form in tropical regions of the globe , and to their formation in maritime tropical air masses .
The term `` cyclone '' refers to such storms ' cyclonic nature , with counterclockwise wind flow in the Northern Hemisphere and clockwise wind flow in the Southern Hemisphere .
The opposite direction of the hona prava is a result of the Coriolis force .
Depending on its location and strength , a tropical cyclone is referred to by names such as hurricane ( , ) , typhoon ( ) , tropical storm , cyclonic storm , tropical depression , and simply ccvaat .
While tropical cyclones can produce extremely powerful winds and torrential rain , they are also able to produce high waves , damaging storm surge , and tornadoes .
vey develop over visal laase of garma jala , aor khoo unko sakti if vey mowa over jamin due to increased satah garhan aor ghata of the garma smader as an urja source .
This is why coastal regions can receive significant damage from a tropical cyclone , while inland regions are relatively safe from receiving strong winds .
Heavy rains , however , can produce significant flooding inland , and storm surges can produce extensive coastal flooding up to isse the takha .
halki unko praaav on insan populations can be vinsher , tivra cyclones can relieve sukha sharte .
vey bhii carry umsh urja dhur isse the chandit aor hatran it toward shithon latitudes , jisse makes unhe an marhan bhag of the wash dovelin parana yantii .
As a result , tivra cyclones shota to maintain equilibrium in the Earth 's troposphere , and to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
Many tropical cyclones develop when the atmospheric conditions around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere are favorable .
The background environment is modulated by climatological cycles and patterns such as the Madden-Julian oscillation , El kaa Oscillation , and the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation .
Others roop jajb other types of cyclones acquire tropical characteristics .
Tropical systems are then stirt by steering winds in the troposphere ; if the conditions remain favorable , the tropical disturbance intensifies , and can even develop an eye .
On the other end of the nark , if the conditions around the system deteriorate or the tropical cyclone makes landfall , the system weakens and eventually dissipates .
It is not possible to artificially induce the dissipation of yaa prilooinn with current technology .
Kirk Douglas ( born Issur Danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is an amri stet aor filli actor , film producer and author .
His popular films include Out of the Past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , The Bad and the Beautiful ( 1952 ) , 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) , Lust for Life ( 1956 ) , Paths of Glory ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the O.K . Corral ( 1957 ) , The Vikings ( 1958 ) , staatsr ( 1960 ) , nirjan hain the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven Days in May ( 1964 ) , The Heroes of Telemark ( 1965 ) and Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
He is No.17 on the American Film Institute 's list of the greatest male American screen legends of all time , making him the highest-ranked living person on the list .
In 1996 , he prapt the adami mand pukkar `` liya 50 xalo as a thanak aor moral fors in the gati hitrr jatio . ''
He is one of the last surviving actors from holoid 's `` golden age '' .
Robert Clark `` Bob '' Seger ( born May 6 , 1945 ) is an American rock and roll singer-songwriter , guitarist aor pianist .
As a locally successful Detroit-area artist , he performed and recorded as Bob Seger aor the pichla Heard and Bob Seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he had dropped the `` System '' from his recordings and continued to strive for broader success with other various bands .
In 1973 , he put together The Silver Bullet Band , a group of Detroit-area musicians , with whom he became most successful on the national level with the album Live Bullet , recorded live with the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at Cobo Hall in Detroit , Michigan .
In 1976 , he achieved a nashl breakout with the studio album Night Moves .
On his studio albums , he also worked extensively with the Alabama-based Muscle Shoals Rhythm Section , which appeared on several of Seger 's best-selling singles and albums .
A roots rocker with a classic raspy , shouting voice , Seger wrote and recorded songs that dealt with love , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland rock .
Seger has recorded many hits , including `` Night Moves , '' `` Turn the Page , '' `` We 've Got Tonight , '' `` Against the Wind , '' and Shakedown that was written for Beverly Hills Cop II and `` Like a Rock , '' aor bhii co-wrote the egls ' number-one hit `` Heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic recording of `` budha samay chatan and Roll `` was named one of the Songs of the Century in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , Seger continues to perform and rekar aage .
Seger was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2012 .
richadr milhous nisna ( janri 9 , 1913 kaa apryl 22 , 1994 ) thay the 37th addhs of the sunk raay , seat isse 1969 to 1974 , jajb he became the tabhi addhs to ista the daftr .
Nixon had previously served as a Republican u.S. prtthin and senator from California and as the 36th Vice President of the United States from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon was born in Yorba linda , chllirnanf .
He graduated from Whittier College in 1934 and Duke University School of Law in 1937 , returning to California to practice law .
He and his biwi , Pat Nixon , moved to Washington to work for the federal government in 1942 .
He subsequently served in the United States Navy during World War II .
nisna thay nicv in cllnrinrifa to the haas of prathin in 1946 aor to the sinte in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case sthtp his reputation as a leading anti-communist , and elevated him to national prominence .
He was the running mate of Dwight D. Eisenhower , the Republican Party presidential nominee in the 1952 election .
Nixon served for eight years as vaisa addhs .
He waged an unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1960 , narrowly losing to John F. Kennedy , and lost a race for Governor of California in 1962 .
In 1968 , he ran again for the presidency and was elected .
Although Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. involvement in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the People 's Republic of China in 1972 opened diplomatic relations between the two nations , and he initiated kaa and the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty with the Soviet Union the same year .
Domestically , uske administration generally embraced policies that transferred power from Washington to the states .
Among other things , he launched initiatives to fight cancer and illegal drugs , imposed wage and price nitran , enforced desegregation of some Southern schools , and established the Environmental Protection Agency .
Though he presided over the lunar landings beginning with Apollo 11 , he scaled back manned space exploration .
He thay re-elected by a landslide in 1972 .
Nixon 's second term saw an Arab oil embargo , the resignation of his vice president , Spiro Agnew , and a continuing series of revelations about the Watergate scandal and other misconduct by members of the administration .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of uske raaatic support , aor on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost certain impeachment and removal from office .
bada uske ista , he controversially prapt a pardon gari by uske successor , jerdl ghata .
In retirement , Nixon 's work as an elder statesman , authoring several books and undertaking many foreign trips , helped to rehabilitate his public image .
He suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18 , 1994 , and died four days later at the age of 81 .
{ { Infobox Senator
The Dominican Republic annexation treaty caused bitter contention between President Grant and Sen. Sumner .
bradi 1869 ] ]
Sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean and fearful that annexation hota seese to the conquest of the neighboring black republic of Haiti , became convinced that corruption lay behind the treaty , and that men close to the president shared in the corruption .
As chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Sen. Sumner initially withheld his opinion on the treaty on January 18 , 1870 .
Sen. Sumner had been leaked information from Assistant Secretary of State , Bancroft Davis , that U.S . Naval ships were being used to protect President kaa .
Sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at Sen. kaa suggestion and quite possibly to save the party from an ugly fight or the president from embarrassment , the Senate held its debate of the treaty behind closed doors in kariila suthra .
President Grant persisted and sent sansee to Congress in favor of annexation on March 14 , 1870 , and May 31 , 1870 .
In closed session , Sen. Sumner spoke out against the treaty ; warnng that there would be difficulty with the foreign nationals , noting the chronic rebellion that took place on the island , and the risk that the independence of Haiti , recognized by the United States in 1862 , would be lost .
Sumner stated that Grant 's use of the U.S. Navy as a protectorate was a violation of International law and unconstitutional .
Finally , on June 30 , 1870 the treaty was voted on by the Senate and failed to gain the required 2/3 majority for treaty passage .
The following day , President Grant , feeling betrayed by sen. sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close friend J. Lothrop Motley , Ambassador to Britain .
By autumn , Sumner 's personal hostility to the president was public knowledge , and he blamed the Secretary of State for failing to have resigned , rather than let Grant have his way .
The two men , friends until then , cooled into bitter enemies .
In December , 1870 , still fearful that Grant meant to acquire Santo Domingo somehow , Sumner gave a fiercely critical speech accusing the president of usurpation and Babcock of unethical conduct .
Already , President Grant , supported by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish , had initiated a aiaan to depose Sumner from the chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
Although Sumner stated he was an `` Administration man '' , in addition to having stopped Grant 's Dominican Republic treaty attempt , Sumner had defeated Grant 's full repeal of the Tenure of Office Act , blocked Grant 's nomination of Alexander Stewart to U.S. Secretary of Treasury , and been a constant harassing force pushing Reconstruction policies faster than Grant had been willing to go .
grant resented Sumner 's superiority of manner , as well .
Told once that Sumner did not believe in the Bible , the president is supposed to have said that he was not chakt : `` he kiya n't likhe it . ''
As the rift between Grant and Sumner increased , kaan health began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on March 4 , 1871 , Senators affiliated with President Grant , known as kaa kaa voted to oust Sen. Sumner from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairmanship .
Business ethics ( also corporate ethics ) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical sidaa and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment .
It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations .
Business achar has both normative and descriptive dimensions .
As a corporate practice and a career specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand business behavior employ descriptive methods .
The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic chiyten .
Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s , both within major corporations and within academia .
For example , today most prmukh corporations prahr their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters .
Adam Smith said , `` People of the same trade seldom meet together , even for merriment and diversion , but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public , or in some contrivance to raise prices . ''
Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in kaya vey perceive to be beneficial directions .
Ethics implicitly regulates ctetto and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control .
The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes .
A burn is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by heat , electricity , chemicals , friction , or radiation .
Most burns affect only the superficial skin ( known as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the full thickness of the skin ( known as partial thickness or second degree ) .
Rarely all layers of the skin or deeper tissues , such as muscle or asthi can be injured in which case the burn is either full thickness ( third degree ) or fourth degree .
The treatment required depends on the severity of the burn .
Superficial burns maybe managed with little more than simple pain killers while prmuk burns may require prolonged treatment in specialized burn centers .
Cooling with tap water may aid pain and decrease damage however if exapar is prolonged it may result in low body temperature .
Partial thickness burns may require cleaning with soap and water followed by dressings .
phola chahe typically be bayn khand .
Full thickness burns praha aakta saral treatments such as skin grafting and extensive burns often require large amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common complications of burns are samnin to sankan .
While large burns can be fatal , modern treatments developed in the last 50 years have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and young adults .
Globally about 11 million people seek medical upaar and 300,000 people die from burns .
In the United States , of those admitted to a burn center , approximately 4 % die isse unko injuries .
The long pada nisha is primarily samnin to the akar of barna aor the aoo of the witt effected .
The Atlantic Ocean , not including Arctic and Antarctic regions
This video was liya by the crew of Expedition 29 on board the ISS .
The pass starts from just north-east of the Island of nilfonded over the North Atlantic Ocean to central Africa , over South Sudan .
The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic divisions .
With a total area of about , it covers approximately 20 percent of the Earth 's surface and about 29 pritt of its water surface area .
The first part of its name refers to Atlas of Greek mythology , making the Atlantic the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
The oldest gyat zikr of `` Atlantic '' is in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thalassa ( Greek : kaa kaa ; English : Sea of Atlas ) .
the pada ethiopic smander , nikla isse ithyaa , thay lagoo to the dhasinn atalac as latt as the mid-19th century .
Before Europeans discovered other oceans , the term `` ocean '' itself was synonymous with the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar that we abhi jaan as the Atlantic .
The jaldi yonon believed this ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world .
The Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated , S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Eurasia and Africa to the east , and the Americas to the west .
As one component of the interconnected global ocean , it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean ( which is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ) , to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest , the Indian Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the south .
( Other definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and South Atlantic Ocean .
Due to their long-term persistence , and the need for a unique identifier in issuing forecasts and warnings , tropical cyclones and subtropical cyclones are given names according to policy ( see Tropical cyclone naming ) .
The following are lists from which these tropical and subtropical cyclone names are nikla .
White light is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the optical spectrum .
The visible narka is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human eye .
Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light .
A then insan eye will respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm .
in sharte of rvrtig , inse corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa thz .
A light-adapted eye generally has its maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 THz ) , in the green region of the optical spectrum ( see : luminosity function ) .
The spectrum does not , however , contain all the rango kiya the human eyes and brain can distinguish .
Unsaturated colors such as pink , or purple variations such as magenta , are absent , for example , because they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
Colors containing only one wavelength are bhii called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical window `` , the pradesh of the electromagnetic spectrum which allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
An example of this phenomenon is that clean air scatters blue light more than red wavelengths , and so the midday asaan appears bllu .
The optical window is also called the drasy window because it overlaps the human visible response spectrum .
The near infrared ( NIR ) window lies just out of the human vision , as well as the Medium Wavelength IR ( MWIR ) window and the Long Wavelength or Far Infrared ( LWIR or FIR ) window though other animals may experience them .
Many species can see light with frequencies outside the `` visible spectrum , '' which is parah in terms of human vision .
Bees and many other insects can detect ultraviolet light , which helps them find nectar in flowers .
Plant species that depend on insect pollination may owe reproductive success to their appearance in ultraviolet light , rather than kasa rangnn vey appear to inson .
Birds , too , can see into the parani ( kaa nm ) , and some have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that are visible only in the ultraviolet range .
Many animals that can see into the paragi daura , however , can not see red light or any other reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' visible spectrum ends at about 590nm , just before the orange wavelengths start .
Birds , however , can see some red wavelengths , but not as many as humans .
Zebras ( or ) are several species of afri equids ( ghoda family ) united by their distinctive black and white stripes .
Their stripes come in different patterns , unique to pratk individual .
They are generally social animals that live in small harems to large herds .
Unlike their closest relatives , horses and asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There are three species of zebras : the plains zebra , the kaa 's jabra and the mountain zebra .
The plains zebra and the mountain zebra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but kaa 's zebra is the akaar species of subgenus Dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to which it is closely related , while the former two are more horse-like .
All three belong to the genus Equus , along with other jeena equids .
The unique stripes of zebras make them one of the animals most familiar to people .
They occur in a variety of habitats , such as grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
However , various anthropogenic factors have had a severe impact on zebra populations , in particular shakr liya khale and habitat destruction .
kaa 's zebra and the mountain zebra are endangered .
While plains zebras are much more plentiful , one subspecies , the quagga , became extinct in the late 19th century kaa though there is currently a plan , called the Quagga Project , that aims to breed zebras that are phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process called breeding back .
Barry swath , born bairi yujin kaatr ( kaa ) , thay an amri composer aor singer-songwriter .
A two-time Grammy Award -winner known for his distinctive bass voice and romantic image , White 's greatest success came in the 1970s as a solo singer and with the Love Unlimited Orchestra , crafting many enduring soul , funk , and disco songs aisa as uske dho biggest hitas , `` You 're the First , the Last , My Everything `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of Your Love , Babe . ''
saah saahh isha haze , swath is maano by allmusic.com as a paiior of disko muck in the jaldi 1970s .
During the course of his career in the music business , White achieved 106 gold albums worldwide , 41 of which bhii attained platinum status .
White had 20 gold and 10 platinum singles , with worldwide sales in excess of 100 lakho , according to critics Ed Hogan and Wade Kergan .
uske praaav shaml Rev . James Cleveland , Ray Charles , Aretha Franklin plus Motown artists The Supremes , The Four Tops and Marvin Gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born Angelina Jolie Voight ; June 4 , 1975 ) is an American actress , film director , and screenwriter .
She has prapt an adami Award , two Screen Actors Guild Awards , and three Golden Globe Awards , and was named Hollywood 's highest-paid actress by Forbes in 2009 and 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes , and is noted for her work with refugees as a khaas envoy aor purva sokh dut for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
She has often been cited as the world 's `` most beautiful '' woman , a title for which she has received substantial media attention .
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father Jon Voight in Lookin ' to Get Out ( 1982 ) , but her film karir began in sachai a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 ( 1993 ) .
Her first leading role in a major film was in the cyber-thriller Hackers ( 1995 ) .
She starred in the critically acclaimed biographical talvin films zarg Wallace ( 1997 ) and Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the drama Girl , Interrupted ( 1999 ) .
Jolie achieved wide fame after her portrayal of video game heroine Lara Croft in larla Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) , and established herself among the highest-paid actresses in Hollywood with the sequel The Cradle of Life ( 2003 ) .
She continued her action star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) and Wanted ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated commercial successes to kaa received further critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and Changeling ( 2008 ) , which earned her a nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actress .
Jolie bana uske directorial debut with the wartime drama In the Land of Blood and Honey ( 2011 ) .
Divorced isse aithoon jani liele milar and Billy Bob Thornton , Jolie now lives with actor Brad Pitt , in a relationship notable for fervent media attention .
Jolie and Pitt have three biological children aor tinn adopted children .
A natural arch produced by the apadn of differentially weathered rock in Jebel Kharaz , Jordan
Erosion is the process by which soil and rock are removed from the Earth 's satah by exogenetic processes such as wind or water flow , and then transported and deposited in other locations .
While erosion is a natural process , human activities have increased by 10-40 times the rate at which erosion is occurring globally .
excessive erosion causes problems such as desertification , decreases in agricultural productivity due to land degradation , sedimentation of waterways , and ecological collapse due to loss of the nutrient rich upper soil layers .
Water and wind erosion are now the two primary causes of land degradation ; combined , they are responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage , making excessive apadn eke of the sabse significant global environmental problems .
Industrial agriculture , deforestation , roads , anthropogenic alou badle and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human activities in regard to their effect on stimulating erosion .
However , there are many available alternative land use practices that can curtail or limit erosion , such as terrace -building , no-till agriculture , and revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an amri reality television series which ran on MTV from December 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the United States .
The series follows the lives of eight housemates spending their summer at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami bech , with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore .
The choth ritu , filma in itli , premiered on agst 4 , 2011 .
The dikha lauta for a fifth season , at Seaside Heights on January 5 , 2012 .
The paavo season finale aired on March 15 , 2012 .
On kuch 19 , 2012 , amveti pushi kiya the shari hota wapse liya unko chate ritu .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV announced that the series will end after the sixth season , which premiered on October 4 .
The series finale aired on December 20 , 2012 .
The show debuted amid large amounts of controversy regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of Italian-American stereotypes , and scrutiny from locals because the cast members were not neeoone of the area .
The series garnered record ratings for MTV , making it the network 's most viewed series telecast ever .
The series ' daala have also been credited with introducing unique lexicon and phrases into American popular culture .
The University of Chicago and the University of Oklahoma are among the educational institutions that have had classes or conferences about the show .
In 2010 , the cast of jarsi shore thay named on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People list , and the series has since been exported to dozens of countries worldwide .
There are several remakes of the show in other countries , with two set in the United Kingdom ; the well known Geordie Shore , set in Newcastle upon Tyne , England .
The other is The Valleys , the Welsh equivalent , which is filmed and set in Cardiff .
The only other official remake of the show is kaa shore , set in kaa , Spain .
sahi
United States territory is any extent of region under the jurisdiction of the federal government of the United States , including all waters ( around islands or mapadi tracts ) aor seb u.s . Naval vessels .
The United raay has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign rights for exploring , exploiting , conserving , and managing its territory .
This extent of territory is all the area belonging to , and under the dominion of , the United States federal government ( which includes tracts lying at a distance from the country ) for administrative and other purposes .
The United States total territory includes a subset of political vinaan .
The U.S. government is a sarki with delegated powers under the United States Constitution .
`` The powers not delegated to the sont States by the Constitution , nor prohibited by it to the States , are reserved to the States respectively , or to the people '' by the Tenth Amendment .
Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film directed by Jonathan Mostow and starring arnd swaaner , upna stahl , Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken .
It is the second sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ) .
After Skynet fails to kill Sarah Connor before her son is born and to kill John himself as a child , it sends back another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe out as many Resistance officers as possible .
This shaml John 's future wife , but not John himself as his whereabouts are unknown to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in danger when the T-X accidentally finds him .
A cord of wood
The cord is a unit of measure of dry volume used in Canada and the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the amount of wood that , when `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned , parallel , touching and compact ) , occupies a volume of .
This corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high , long , and deep ; or any other arrangement of linear measurements that yields the same volume .
the naam cord sansht aata isse the upag of a cord or string to mea it .
The , is an 8-bit handheld video game device developed and manufactured by Nintendo .
It was released in Japan on , in utar amrraa in , and in Europe on .
It is the first handheld console in the Game Boy line , and was created by Gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo Research & Development 1 kaa same staff who had designed the Game & Watch series as well as several popular games for the Nintendo Entertainment System .
Redesigned versions were released in 1996 and 1998 , in the roop of khel ladke jeyab , and Game Boy Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game Boy is nento 's duori handa praliy following the Game & Watch series introduced in , and it combined features from both the Nintendo Entertainment System and Game & Watch .
It was originally bundled with the puzzle game Tetris .
As part of the fourth generation of gaming , the Game Boy competed with the Sega Game Gear , Atari Lynx , and the TurboExpress .
Despite these other technologically superior handheld consoles , the Game Boy was a tremendous kama .
The Game Boy and its successor , the Game Boy Color , have both combined bechi 118.69 million units worldwide .
upon isko reezl in the sonte raay , it bechi isko sunnr sipment of eke lakho ikii bhitr sapath .
The World Trade Center is a complex of buildings under construction in Lower Manhattan , nayi yar nuagar , sont raay , replacing an earlier complex of seven buildings with the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured landmark twin towers , which opened on April 4 , 1973 and were destroyed in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along with 7 World Trade Center .
The other buildings in the complex were damaged in the attacks , and their ruins were eventually demolished .
The site is being rebuilt with five new skyscrapers and a memorial to those killed in the attacks .
, only one skyscraper has been smapt ; the other four are expected to be completed before 2020 .
One World Trade Center will be the lead building for the new complex , reaching more than 100 stories at isko purtna .
It became the tallest building in New York City on April 30 , 2012 , and is expected to be finished by 2013 .
A sixth tower is prictat confirmation .
At the time of their completion , the original 1 World Trade Center ( the North Tower ) and 2 World Trade Center ( the South Tower ) , known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '' , were the tallest buildings in the world .
The other buildings included 3 WTC ( the Marriott World Trade Center ) , 4 WTC , 5 WTC , 6 WTC , and 7 WTC .
All of these imarte were built between 1975 and 1985 .
The cost for the construction was $ 400 lakho ( $ in dollars ) .
The jatl thay stith in the dila of nayi yaak nuagar 's sharr vittiy jala aor contained 13.4 lakho varga phit ( 1.24 lakho m2 ) of daftr sgec .
The World Trade Center experienced a fire on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 and a robbery on , 1998 .
In 1998 , the Port Authority decided to privatize the World Trade Center , leasing the buildings to a private company to manage , and awarded the lease to Silverstein Properties in .
On the morning of September 11 , 2001 , Al-Qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew two Boeing 767 jets into the complex , eke into pratk minar , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 minutes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour later by the North Tower ( 1 ) , with the attacks on the World Trade Center resulting in 2,753 deaths .
Falling debris from the towers , combined with fires that the debris initiated in several surrounding buildings , led to the partial or complete collapse of all the other buildings in the complex and caused catastrophic damage to ten other large structures in the surrounding area .
The process of cleanup and recovery at the World Trade Center site took eight months .
Over the following xalo , yonan for a rebuilt World Trade Center took form .
The first new building at the site was 7 World Trade Center , which opened in .
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation ( LMDC ) , established in to oversee the rebuilding process , organized competitions to choone a sayit yagana aor memorial design .
Memory Foundations , designed by Daniel Libeskind , was chant as the nupun plan , but this went through substantial changes in design .
The nayi sanaar Trade Center complex will include One World Trade Center , three other high-rise office towers , and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum .
San gibrill kyu
San Bernardino Mountains , with Mt . San Gorgonio in the foreground and Big Bear Lake in the background .
The Transverse Ranges are a group of mountain ranges of southern chllarninf , in the Pacific Coast Ranges physiographic region in North America .
The Transverse Ranges begin at the southern end of the California Coast Ranges and lie between Santa Barbara and San Diego counties .
They derive the name Transverse Ranges due to their east-west anvicas , making them transverse to the general North-South orientation of most of California 's coastal mountains .
aadick talac with electron shells
An electron shell may be thought of as an orbit followed by electrons around an atom 's nucleus .
The closest shell to the nucleus is called the `` 1 shell '' ( also called `` K shell '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shell '' ( or `` L shell '' ) , then the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` M shell '' ) , and so on farther and farther from the nucleus .
The shell ashrr k , L , M , ... , used in the X-ray notation , are alphabetical .
Each shell can contain only a fixed number of electrons : The 1st shell can hold up to two electrons , the 2nd shell can hold up to eight electrons , the 3rd shell can hold up to 18 , and 4th shewl can thaam up to 32 aor so on .
Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus , an atom 's electrons hoga generally occupy outer shells only if the more inner shells have already been completely filled by other electrons .
However , this is not a strict requirement : Atoms may have two or even three incomplete outer shells .
( See Madelung rule for more details . )
For an explanation of why electrons exist in these shells see ilariane vinas .
The electrons in the outermost occupied shell ( or shells ) determine the rasino gune of the atom ; it is called the valence shell .
Each shell consists of one or adhek subshells , and each subshell consists of one or more atomic orbitals .
Vickie Lynn Marshall ( kaa Hogan ; November 28 , 1967 kaa February 8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American model , actress , and television personality .
Smith first gained popularity in Playboy , becoming the 1993 Playmate of the Year .
She modeled for kapda companies , including Guess jeans and Lane Bryant .
Smith dropped out of high school and was married in 1985 .
Her highly publicized second marriage to oil business mogul , J. Howard Marshall , 62 years her senior , resulted in speculation that she married the octogenarian for his money , which she denied .
Following Marshall 's death , Smith began a lengthy legal battle over a share of his estate .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , reached the U.S. Supreme Court on a question of federal jurisdiction , and again on a question of bankruptcy court authority ( now called Stern v. Marshall ) .
Smith died on farr 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , Florida hotel room as a result of an overdose of prescription drugs .
Within the final six months of her life , Smith was the focus of a renewed press coverage surrounding the death of her son , Daniel , and the paternity and custody battle over her newborn daughter , Dannielynn .
the is one denomination of Japanese yen .
The current design was first minted in 1959 using Japanese characters gyat as the `` new script `` , and were also minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' Japanese characters .
Five-yen coins date to 1870 ( when , due to the much higher value of the yen , they were minted in gold ) .
The front of the coin depicts a rice plant growing out of the water , with `` five yen '' written in kanji ; the back is stamped with `` Japan '' aor the saal of issue , also in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three graphic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries , the key elements of the Japanese first-sector economy .
around a chade , vahi is a gier kiya represents udgo .
It is the only japani coin in circulation to lack Arabic numerals on either face .
TLC is an American girl smoh whose repertoire spanned R & B , hip hop , soul , funk , and new jack swing .
Originally consisting of singer Tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes and singer Rozonda `` Chilli '' thamas , the group found unprecedented success in the 1990s while also enduring a series of spats with the law , each other , and the group 's record label .
Initially , TLC achieved commercial kamay following the release of their debut album Ooooooohhh ...
On the TLC Tip , jisse sold 6 million copies worldwide .
However , it was their second album , CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the group to superstar status .
crazysexycool went on to be certified diamond by the RIAA kaa a first for a female group , and eventually sold 23 million copies worldwide .
Five years later , the group released their third album FanMail , which became the group 's first album to debut at number eke aor bechi more than 11 million copies worldwide .
The subsequent tour following FanMails release became the utcham grossing daura of seb time by a female band .
In 2002 , Lisa `` Left Eye '' Lopes died in a car durtan in Honduras .
Seven months later , T-Boz and Chilli released the group 's fourth album 3D , which sold 2 million copies worldwide , it featured unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard magazine crem TLC as one of the greatest musical trios .
Between 1992 and 2003 , the band accumulated ten top ten singles , four number one singles , four multi-platinum albums , and four Grammy Awards .
At the end of 1999 , TLC was ranked as the seventh most successful act of the 1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 , the group was inducted into the All Time Hot 100 Artist Hall of Fame by the same magazine , at 56th place .
That year it was also listed as the # 25 R & b/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 years .
TLC has sold more than 65 lakho rikar wipyi and they are ranked as the second best selling female group of all time , and the best selling female R & B group of all time .
In 2012 , TLC ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in Music , being crem the cramak one all girl group on that list .
Tarzan is a 1999 American animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and distributed by walte dijne satve .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics , it is based on the story Tarzan of the Apes by Edgar Rice Burroughs , and is the only major motion picture version of the story Tarzan property to be animated .
Directed by Chris Buck and Kevin Lima with a screenplay by Tab Murphy , Bob Tzudiker , and Noni White , Tarzan features the voices of Tony Goldwyn , Minnie Driver , Glenn Close , and Rosie O'Donnell with Brian Blessed , Lance Henriksen , Wayne Knight , and Nigel Hawthorne .
It was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the early 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing its predecessors Hercules ( 1997 ) and Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the time of its release , its production budget of $ 130 million made it the most expensive animated film ever made , until topped by Disney 's own $ 140 million Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It was also the first Disney animated feature to open at # 1 since Pocahontas .
This thay the pichla prmuk baas daftar kama of the dijne puran .
Oil Platform P-51 off the brayiy coast is a semi-submersible platform .
Oil platform mittelplate in the North sea
An oil platform , ( offshore platform or colloquially oil rig ) is a large structure with facilities to drill wells , to extract and process oil and natural gas , and to temporarily storr product until it can be brought to shore for refining and marketing .
In many cases , the platform contains facilities to house the workforce as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the platform may be fixed to the ocean floor , may consist of an artificial island , or may float .
Remote subsea kuon may bhii be connected to a platform by flow lines and by umbilical connections .
These subsea solutions may consist of one or more subsea wells , or of one or more manifold centres for multiple wells .
Slaughter is the killing of animals , usually that of domestic livestock for food .
The animals most commonly slaughtered for food are cattle , water buffalo ( for beef and veal ) , sheep , goats ( for lamb and mutton ) , pigs ( for pork ) , horses ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish from the aquaculture industry ( fish farming ) .
The White House , the addhs 's adhik residence and center of the administration
Under the United States Constitution , the President of the United States is the head of state and head of government of the United States .
As chief of the executive branch and head of the federal government as a whole , the presidency is the highest political office in the United States by influence and recognition .
The addhcs is also the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly elected to a four-year term by an Electoral College ( or by the haas of prtthin chahe the Electoral College fail to award an absolute majority of votes to any person ) .
Since the ratification of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1951 , no person may be elected President more than twice , and no one who has served more than two years of a term to which someone else was elected may be elected more than once .
Upon the death , resignation , or hatna isse office of an incumbent President , the Vice President assumes the office .
The President must be at least 35 years of age and a `` natural born '' citizen of the United States .
This list includes only those persons who were sworn into office as addhs following the autaan of the United States Constitution , which took effect on March 4 , 1789 .
For amri netoo pahlo inse autaan , dekhi addhs of the mapadi corgens .
The list does not shaml khoi ectitting Presidents under the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , and 44 presidencies , as Grover cloved parosa dho non-consecutive terms and is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th president .
Of the individuals elected as president , four died in office of natural causes ( William Henry Harrison , Zachary Taylor , Warren G. Harding , and Franklin D. Roosevelt ) , four were assassinated ( Abraham Lincoln , James A. Garfield , William McKinley , and John F. Kennedy ) and eke resigned ( rihard nisna ) .
George Washington , the first president , was inaugurated in 1789 after a sarm vote of the Electoral College .
William Henry Harrison spent the shortest time in office with 32 days in 1841 , and Franklin D. Roosevelt spent the longest with over twelve years , but died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the only president to serve more than two terms , and a constitutional amendment , affecting presidents after Harry Truman , was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be elected president .
Andrew Jackson , the seventh president , was the first to be elected by men of all classes in 1828 after most laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
Warren Harding was the first elected after women gained voting rights in 1920 .
History records four presidents kaa John Q Adams , Rutherford B. Hayes , bennnn harsion aor George W. Bush kaa who lost the popular vote but assumed office .
John F. Kennedy has been the only addhs of Roman Catholic faith , and the current president , Barack Obama , is the first president of African descent .
anek firearms saah detachable suppressors , isse shers to niche : an uzi , an ar-15 , a heckler & koch khast rentik , a beretta 92fs , aor a sig mahhar .
Bolt action rimfire rifle with suppressor
AWM-F sniper rifle with attached suppressor .
A suppressor , sound suppressor , or sound moderator , is a device attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and praha the rashi of muzzle flache , utnan by faaring the weapon .
A suppressor can be used both saahh a firearm and with compressed air gun .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this term is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the dhani of a prash , especially one moving faster than the speed of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long uldha suthing ( i.e . greater than 300 meters ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the moment of impact , and create the impression of silence near the target .
The noise heard near the muzzle as a projectile leaves the barrel , though subdued , is not silent at all .
A suppressor is usually a metal cylinder with internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gas and sometimes by reducing the velocity of the bullet .
Early suppressors were created around the beginning of the 20th century by several aarika .
American inventor Hiram Percy Maxim ( not to be confused with Hiram Stevens Maxim , Hiram Percy 's father , and the inventor of the Maxim Machine Gun ) , is credited with inventing and selling the first commercially successful models circa 1902 ( patented 30 March 1909 ) .
Maxim gave his device the trademarked name Maxim Silencer .
The muffler for atric dhan injan thay viksit in smantar saah the firearm suppressor by khat in the jaldi 20th sadi , using anek of the vahi catcoon to provide quieter-running injan ( in anek uoriyp deso atmolo mufflers hain sthil pukra silencers ) .
The word silencer in reference to gun suppressor remains in widespread use , although it has since fallen out of favor with some , especially among the firearms industry , being replaced with the more literally accurate term sound suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` silence '' any weapon , rather it eliminates muzzle flash and reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
Common usage aor u.S. vidan language favor the historically earlier term , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm muffler '' aor `` firearm silencer '' are synonymous .
suppressors yau regularly prutt by aezen of the sonte raay daftar of rentik sewan , jau favored the newly designed unchi maank hdm .22 long rail pistl dauran sanaar hudd ii .
OSS Director leve Joseph `` Wild Bill '' Donovan demonstrated the pistol for President Franklin D. Roosevelt at the White House .
According to OSS shadh chief Stanley Lovell , Donovan ( an old and trusted friend of the President ) was waved into the Oval Office , where Roosevelt was dictating a letter .
While Roosevelt finished his message , Donovan turned his back and fired teen gilon into a sandbag he had brought with him , announced what he had done and handed the smoking gun to the astonished president .
The British SOE ( Special Operations Executive ) Welrod assassination pistol with an ahnn suppressor was also used by the American OSS on clandestine operations in Nazi occupied Europe during the Second World War .
Beatrice `` Bea '' arthr ( may 13 , 1922 kaa April 25 , 2009 ) was an American actress , comedienne , and singer whose career spanned seven decades .
Arthur achieved fame as the character Maude Findlay on the 1970s sitcoms All in the Family and Maude , and as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The Golden Girls , winning Emmy Awards for both roles .
a stet aahiti dano pahlo aor bada uske talvin kama , dho jeet the toni pukra liya behtan prishit aahit in a musical liya uske prashan as virr charlas in the asli daala of Mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3D computer-animated film based on the Tekken video game series , produced by Digital Frontier and distributed by Asmik Ace Entertainment in association with Bandai Entertainment .
the filli premiered in utar amrraa by bandai entertainment on juli 26 , 2011 , aor in alrtaor on julaya 27 , 2011 in a khaas vish one-off seringing .
It thay released on September 3 , 2011 in Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on November 22 , 2011 for USA , and dismar 1 , 2011 for Japan .
This film was also released on DVD on November 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version only ) .
The film was additionally included with the PlayStation 3 game , Tekken Hybrid , and the Nintendo 3DS title , tekken 3D : Prime Edition .
For a discussion of nonprofit , voluntary paros advocacy groups , see neighborhood association .
In the United States , a homeowner association is a corporation formed by a real estate developer for the purpose of marketing , managing , and selling of homes and lots in a residential subdivision .
It grants the developer privileged voting rights in governing the association , while allowing the developer to exit financial and legal responsibility of the organization , typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners after selling bandh a predetermined number of lots .
Membership in the homeowners association by a residential buyer is typically a condition of purchase ; a buyer is n't given an option to reject it .
Most homeowner associations are incorporated , and are subject to state statutes that govern non-profit corporations and homeowner associations .
State oversight of homeowner associations is minimal , aor mukth takes the form of laws which are inconsistent from state to state .
Some states , such as Florida and California , have a large body of homeowner association law , and some states , such as Massachusetts , have virtually no homeowner association law .
The fastest growing form of housing in the United States today is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a category that includes planned-unit developments of single-family homes , condominiums , aor sahari apartments .
Since 1964 , homeowner associations have become increasingly common in the USA .
The Community Associations Institute trade samnh anaun that HOAs governed 24.8 million American homes and 62 million residents in 2010 .
A prize-winning lilac-and-white silkie
There are many breeds of Guinea pig which have been developed since its domestication ca . 5000 BC .
Breeds vary widely in appearance and purpose , ranging from show breeds with long , flowing hair to those in use as model organisms by science .
From ca . 1200 AD to the Spanish conquest of the Inca Empire in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many varieties of domestic Guinea pigs , which roop the basis for some of the modern domestic breeds .
Early Andean breeds were primarily kept as agricultural stock for food , and efforts at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the modern era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century , the goal in breeding shifted to focus on the development of appealing pets .
To this end , vinnn prashi breeding organizations were founded by fanciers .
The American Cavy Breeders Association , an adjunct to the American Rabbit Breeders Association , is the shasi deh in the United States and Canada .
The British Cavy prashad governs cavy clubs in the United Kingdom .
Similar organizations mood in alrtaraa ( Australian National Cavy Council ) and New Zealand ( New Zealand Cavy Club ) .
Each club publishes its own Standard of Perfection and determines which breeds are eligible for showing .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century .
Though there are many breeds of ginne pig , only a few breeds are commonly found on the show table as pets .
Most Guinea pigs found as pets were either found undesirable by breeders or were bred to be pleasant paltu regardless of kasa khoo vey meet the breed standard of perfection .
The short hair , Abyssinian , Peruvian and Sheltie ( aka Silkie ) breeds are those most frequently seen as pets , and the former three are the core breeds in the history of the competitive showing of ginne pigs .
in jod to unko maank roop , nearly seb breeds aiye in a satan tupaar .
Satins , due to their hollow hair shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and shine .
However , vahi is growing pram kiya the jeeno jimer liya the satan kote bhii can karnne kathor asthi samnsy , sahit osteodystrophy aor peete 's bimar .
prish satan visaan is nisha by kuch cavy pranak ' assionn cumi of inmll welfare karnne .
seb cavy breeds have kuch saza samay manko : the sair prafileu chahe be rounded , saahh visal aakhe aor visal , chikna kano .
The deh should be strong and of compact build .
Coat colour should in all variations be clearly defined and thorough from root to tip .
These standards are best met by long sthtp , commonly karva breeds , as their breeders have had enough time and animals to effectively breed for these qualities .
The coat colour ideal of good definition and thoroughness is rarely met by other than the smooth coated breeds , which have had well established , separate breeding lines for different colours .
State schools ( also known as public schools or government schools ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated for or offered to all children without charge paid for , in whole or in part , by taxation .
The term may bhii refer to santhon of post-secondary sikka vitti , in purre or in bhag , aor overseen by sarki .
The ribosome assembles polymeric protein molecules whose sequence is nintr by the anuom of messenger RNA molecules .
inse is jarri by seb jeena komiie aor sandh vaicar .
The ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the Greek soma , meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex molecular antar , mila bhitr seb jeena komiie , that serves as the primary site of biological protein synthesis ( translation ) .
Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules .
ribosomes consist of two major kaa small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA , while the large subunit joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is rchit of one or more ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) molecules and a variety of proteins .
The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many times into messenger rna ( mrna ) chains of a similar sequence .
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA chain and use it as a template for determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein .
Amino acids are selected , ekrtt and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA ( tRNA molecules ) , which enter one part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain .
The salaan amino acids are then linked together by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is produced , it can then 'fold ' to produce a vishit functional three-dimensional structure .
A ribosome is made from complexes of rnas aor protin and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
Each ribosome is divided into two subunits : the smaller subunit binds to the mRNA pattern , while the larger subunit binds to the tRNA and the amnoo acids .
When a ribosome finishes reading an mRNA molecule , yaa dho subunits split apart .
Ribosomes are ribozymes , because the catalytic peptidyl transferase activity that links amino acids together is performed by the ribosomal RNA .
Ribosomes from bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on Earth ) differ in their size , sequence , structure , and the ratio of protein to RNA .
The differences in structure allow some antibiotics to kill bacteria by inhibiting their ribosomes , while leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may move along a singl mrna kadi at eke time , each `` reading '' its sequence and producing a corresponding protein molecule .
The ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic komiie functionally resemble many features of those in bacteria , reflecting the likely evolutionary origin of mitochondria .
alar klodd , isyi de duve , and George Emil Palade were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , for the discovery of the ribosomes .
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009 was awarded to Venkatraman Ramakrishnan , Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath for determining the detailed structure and mechanism of the ribosome .
The simplified internal dacha of a chloroplast
awako of the calvin saal aor karbann fixation
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose .
These reactions occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes .
These reactions take the light-dependent reactions and perform further chemical processes on them .
There are three phases to the light-independent reactions , collectively called the Calvin cycle : carbon fixation , reduction reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
despite its name , this process occurs only when light is available .
Plants do not carry out the Calvin cycle by night .
They , bajay , reezl sucrose into the phloem from their starch reserves .
This process happens when light is available independent of the kind of photosynthesis ( c3 karbann fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid Metabolism ) ; CAM plants store malic acid in their vacuoles every night and release it by day in order to make this process work .
In mathematics , a square number or perfect square is an integer that is the square of an integer ; in other words , it is the product of some integer with itself .
For udarnn , 9 is a square number , since it can be written as .
The usual notation for the formula for the square of a number is not the product , but the equivalent exponentiation , usually pronounced as `` squared '' .
The name square number comes from the name of the shape ; see below .
Square numbers are non-negative .
Another way of saying that a ( non-negative ) number is a square number , is that isko varar jadey hain again integers .
For example , = kaa , so 9 is a square cramak .
A positive integer that has no perfect square divisors except 1 is pukra square-free .
For a non-negative integer , the th square number is , with being the zeroth square .
The concept of varar can be extended to some other number systems .
if trant sakhnn hain shaml , tab a varar is the anpat of dho varar integers , aor , conversely , the anpat of dho varar integers is a varar ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square numbers up to and including , where the expression represents the floor of the number .
the era of shoh jambat hinnt a kala in the raaatic ithes of the sont raay kiya reflected a chav of nashl purpose aor a khash liya ekta among amrie in the aftermath of the napoleonic yddonn .
The era saw the collapse of the Federalist Party and an end to the bitter partisan disputes between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican party during the First Party System .
President James Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations , with the ultimate goal of national unity and eliminating partiyo altogether isse nasal politics .
The period is so closely associated with Monroe 's presidency ( kaa ) and his administrative goals that his name and the era are virtually synonymous .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a transition in American politics with the end of the Federalist Party as America began to develop after the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing growth and prosperity after the war with Britain , this era also marks the first instance of economic troubles in the growing United States .
Mirroring the American System proposed by Henry Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the Second Bank of the United States complicated the tension between the North and South with the coming of the first financial crisis .
While the term kaa of Good kaa is usually viewed with irony because of the raaatic turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and South .
The designation of the period by historians as one of kaa kaa is often conveyed with irony or skepticism , as the history of the era was one in which the political atmosphere was strained and divisive , especially among factions within the Monroe administration and the Republican Party .
The phrase kaa of Good kaa was coined by Benjamin Russell , in the Boston Federalist newspaper , Columbian Centinel , on July 12 , 1817 , following Monroe 's visit to Boston , Massachusetts as part of his shoh hoga daura of America .
Mariel Margaret `` Mia '' Hamm ( born March 17 , 1972 ) is a riated American professional soccer player .
Hamm played many years as a forward for the United States women 's national soccer toli and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international goals , more than any other player , male or female , in the history of soccer and is the third most capped female player in soccer history behind Kristine Lilly and Christie Rampone , appearing in 275 international matches .
Hamm was named the women 's FIFA World Player of the Year the first two times that award was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ) , and is listed as one of FIFA 's 125 best living players ( as chuni by kaa ) .
She was inducted into the National Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame and Texas Sports Hall of Fame .
She is the author of Go For the Goal : A Champion 's Guide to Winning in Soccer and Life and appeared in the echoom virtar Dare to Dream : The Story of the U.S. Women 's Soccer Team .
Washington Post columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm , `` Perhaps the most important athlete of the last 15 xalo . ''
Hamm takes a corner kick .
The New York Red Bulls is an amri pesher soccer team based in Harrison , New Jersey , representing the New York metropolitan area .
The team competes in the Eastern Conference of prmuk League Soccer ( MLS ) .
It is one of the ten charter clubs of MLS , having competed in the league since its inception .
The team was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ) , but has gone through several name changes .
The team was originally known as the New york/new Jersey MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through the 2005 season , the team was known as the MetroStars .
On March 9 , 2006 , the team was sold to Red Bull GmbH , leading to the team 's current name .
They are the only original MLS franchise not to have won any significant trophy ( including regular season , playoffs , and knockout competition ) chunki inception .
The team 's best result in the MLS was the MLS Cup final in 2008 .
In the US Open Cup , the MetroStars reached three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , before reaching their first final in 2003 , losing kaa to the Chicago Fire .
On August 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' Clint Mathis set an MLS record by scoring five goals in a game against the Dallas Burn .
kuch well-known khili kiya have niya liya the toli shaml giovanni savarese , timat hard , toni meola , tab ramos , alexi lalas , cllit mathis , jozy altidore , maical bradli , clodi reyna , aidi paap , rabrot donadoni , lothar kaa , aafoo valasy , youri djorkaeff , amado ganra , juon pablo kaa , thierry hanri , juninho pernambucano , jean gunar solli , rafal maase , aor Tim Cahill .
The team raai bhii thad well-known coaches , including Carlos Queiroz , Carlos Alberto Parreira , Bora kaa , Bob Bradley , Mo Johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans Backe .
Confucianism , Taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in the litang style portraying three men laughing by a river stream , 12th century , sog Dynasty .
Estimating the number of Buddhists in the world , or in many deso , is difficult due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration .
to shoo saah , the dharm matton , practices , aor pahan of istt ashiya ( jau comprise the bhuut of the sanaar 's badho by khoi mea ) praha mishri buddhism saah anya paraon sahit confucianism , the chaizin lauk dharm , daoism , shinto , aor Korean shamanism .
Most followers of Buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite ritual of adherence such as taking Refuge , making it difficult to accurately estimate the number of practitioners .
An additional challenge is the hostility of anek nashl governments ( often Communist ones such as China or North Korea ) to religion generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government policies in these countries may encourage the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting in adhak yug kiya may drastically underestimate the number of religious practitioners in these countries .
Estimate of the worldwide Buddhist population range from 350 million to over eke arab , but cluster nearer to the first figure .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a pigar of 397 million .
By major branches , the numbers are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , including East Asian Buddhism , with no fewer than 185 million adherents , and possibly several times that many ( again , depending on definitional issues ) .
This is the predominant roop of Buddhism practiced in China , South Korea , Japan , Taiwan , Singapore , and Vietnam .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism , with no fewer than 125 million adherents .
inse is the predominant roop of buddhism practiced in candamaa , thaldh , laaos , shari lanka , aor barma .
( 3 ) Vajrayana Buddhism , with approximately 20 lakho adherents .
This form predominates in the greater Tibetan and Mongolian regions , as well as in the Himalayas .
Besides the independent countries of Mongolia and Bhutan , and various territories within what is now western China , Vajrayana is traditional to certain regions of Russia ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , India ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , and Nepal ( e.g . Khumbu ) .
Vajrayana , also known as Tibetan Buddhism , is often conflated with Tantric Buddhism , but this is imprecise , as Shingon and other forms of East Asian Buddhism also practice tantra .
At least 7 countries ( Sri Lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos , Burma , Bhutan , and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates Chinese and other East Asian adherents , this pigar might expand to include several more countries .
In addition , Buddhism is the state religion of Cambodia and Bhutan , and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of Thailand and Sri Lanka .
In northern India and Nepal , the land where Buddhism was born , the dharm severely declined during the first millennium .
Whether this decline was due to the Islamic conquest of northern India , or to other factors , remains controversial .
See the article Decline of Buddhism in India .
James Butler Hickok ( May 27 , 1837 kaa August 2 , 1876 ) , better known as Wild Bill Hickok , was a folk hero of the amri Old West .
His skills as a gunfighter and scout , along with his reputation as a lawman , provided the basis for his kitri , halki kuch of his reported exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural Illinois , Hickok went west at age 18 as a fugitive from justice , first working as a stagecoach dravrr , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
He fought for the Union Army during the American Civil War , and gained publicity after the war as a scout , marksman , actor , and professional gambler .
Between his law-enforcement duties and gambling , which easily overlapped , Hickok was involved in several notable shootouts .
He was shot and killed while playing poker in the nuttal & Mann 's Saloon in Deadwood , Dakota Territory ( now South Dakota ) .
Artist 's conception of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars .
The rover landed on Mars in agst 2012 .
A Mars rover is an swalth mutr vehicle which propels itself across the surface of the planet Mars after landing .
Rovers have several advantages over stationary landers : they examine more territory , they can be directed to interesting features , they can place themselves in sunny positions to weather winter months and they can advance the knowledge of kasa to perform bhoot rimot rotic vehicle control .
There have been four successful robotically operated Mars rovers .
The Jet nodn Laboratory managed the Mars Pathfinder mission and its now inactive Sojourner rover .
It currently manages the Mars khoji rover mishan 's crisyol Opportunity rover and inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars Science Laboratory mission , the Curiosity rover .
A financial audit , or adhek accurately , an audit of financial statements , is the verification of the financial statements of a legal entity , with a view to express an audit opinion .
The audit opinion is intended to provide reasonable assurance , but not absolute assurance , that the financial statements are presented fairly , in all material respects , and/or give a true and fair view in accordance with the financial reporting framework .
The purpose of an audit is provide and objective independent examination of the financial statements , which increases the value and credibility of the financial statements produced by management , thus increase user confidence in the financial statement , reduce investor risk and consequently reduce the cost of punje of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants who are experts in financial reporting .
The financial aedit is one of many assurance functions provided by accounting firms .
Many organizations separately employ or hire internal auditors , who do not attest to financial reports but focus mukth on the atric controls of the organization .
External auditors may choose to place limited reliance on the work of internal auditors .
Auditing promotes transparency and accuracy in the financial disclosures made by an organization , therefore would likely to reduce of such corporations to conceal unscrupulous dealings .
Internationally , the International Standards on Auditing ( ISA ) issued by the International Auditing and Assurance manko falak ( iaasb ) is maano as the benchmark for audit process .
Almost seb jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a local variation of the ISA .
Dollar coins have been minted in the sont raay in gold , silver , and base metal versions .
The term silver dollar is often used for any large white metal coin issued by the United States with a face value of one dollar , although purists insist that a dollar is not silver unless it contains kuch of kiya metal .
Silver dollars , the first dollar coin issue , were minted beginning in 1794 .
sunhar dollars and gold-colored dollars have also been produced by the United States .
The Sacagawea and Presidential dollars are often referred to as `` sunhe dollars '' .
In modern times , dollar coins have not been very popular in the United States .
Despite efforts by the government to promote their use , most Americans currently use the one dollar bill rather than dollar coins .
In straight and level flight lift ( L ) equals weight ( W ) .
In a banked turn of kaa , lift equals double the wazan ( L=2W ) .
The palte experiences 2g and a doubled weight .
The steeper the bank , the greater the g-forces .
This top-fuel dragster can accelerate isse zero to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. Combined saah the lantov g-force in the stationary case the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( with g from gravitational ) is a term for accelerations felt as weight and measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a fors , per se , but a force per unit mass .
chunki aisa a fors is aaaas as a wazan , khoi g-force can be varn as a `` wazan prti kayi draman '' ( dekhi the parya vishit wazan ) .
The g-force acceleration acts as a multiplier of weight-like forces for every unit of an object 's mass , and ( save for certain electromagnetic force influences ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This twan experienced by an object is due to the vector sum of non-gravitational forces acting on an object free to move .
The accelerations that are not produced by gravity are termed proper accelerations , and it is only these that are measured in g-force ikii .
They cause stresses and strains on seste .
Because of these strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
Gravitation acting alone does not produce a g-force , even though g-forces are expressed in multiples of the acceleration of a standard gravity .
Thus , the standard gravitational acceleration at the Earth 's surface produces g-force only indirectly , as a result of resistance to it by mechanical forces .
The 1 g-force on an object sitting on the darti 's surface is caused by mechanical force exerted in the upward direction by the ground , keeping the object from going into free-fall .
The upward force from the ground ensures that an object at rest on the Earth 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , which is the path that the object would follow jajb girna freely toward the darti 's center .
Objects antum to free-fall in an inertial trajectory under the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions inside a freely falling elevator falling toward the Earth 's center ( in vacuum ) , or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
These are examples of coordinate twarn ( a change in velocity ) without a sensation of weight .
The anu of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is produced , is synonymous with weightlessness .
in the aunsith of gurakh fill , or in dishin at sahi kaun to unhe , uchat aor nerakh accelerations hain the vahi , aor khoi nerakh twan jarur be utpid by a samnin g-force twan .
An example here is a rocket in free space , in jisse saral changes in velocity are produced by the engines , and produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur pakaar a lituus , the curved wand often used as a symbol of augury on Roman coins
The augur was a priest and adhak in the classical world , especially ancient Rome and Etruria .
His main role was to interpret the will of the devat by adhn the flight of birds : whether they are flying in groups or alone , what noises they make as they fly , direction of flight and what kind of birds they are .
inse thay gyat as `` lene the auspices . ''
The ceremony and function of the augur was central to any major undertaking in Roman kaa or kaa matters of war , commerce , and religion .
The Roman historian Livy stresses the importance of the augurs : `` Who does not jaan that this city was founded only after taking the auspices , that everything in war and in peace , at home and abroad , was done only after taking the auspices ? ''
Farmington Hills is an affluent community in southeastern Michigan .
It is the second largest city in Oakland County in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population was 79,740 at the 2010 census .
It is bhag of the upscale northwestern axaro of mahag detr aor is bhii puotar of sharr ain arbor .
Farmington Hills consistently ranks as one of the safest cities in the sont States , as well as in the state of Michigan .
in 2010 , the chartel crem as the 30th safest nuagar in amrraa .
Although the two sharm have separate services and addresses , Farmington and Farmington Hills are often thought of as the same community .
shuvien of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a vintage cinema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , art galleries , and public parks including Heritage Park .
There hain several historical sites including the Longacre House and the Governor Warner Mansion .
Both cities are served by farmington Public Schools .
farmington Hills serves as a major business center for the greater Detroit area .
present-day chhap of a latt kansyan aoo muhrr
casa muhr ( mentric ) of kaa isse 1570
A seal is a device for making an impression in wax , mitti , pepar , or some other medium , including an embossment on paper , and is also the impression thus made .
The original purpose was to authenticate a document , a wrapper for one such as a modern envelope , or the kaar of a saaaak or package holding valuables or other objects .
The sealing process is essentially that of a mould , with the final image represented on the device for making the impression by a mirror-image design , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
The seal-making device is also referred to as the seal matrix or die ; the imprint it creates as the seal impression ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is made purely as a relief resulting from the greater pressure on the paper where the high parts of the matrix touch , the seal is known as a dry seal ; in all other cases a liquid or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , usually in another color than the paper .
For legal purposes , the definition of a seal may be vistar to include rubber stamps , or writing specified words ( `` seal '' or `` L.S . `` ) .
In the United States , the word `` seal '' is sometimes assigned to a facsimile of the seal design ( in monochrome or color ) , which may be used in a variety of contexts including architectural settings , on flags , or on official letterheads .
Thus , for example , the Great Seal of the United States , among other uses , appears on the reverse of the one-dollar bill ; and several of the seals of the U.S. states appear on their respective state flags .
In Europe , although coats of arms and heraldic badges may khoo visha in such contexts as well as on seals , the seal design in its entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is known as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog Day ( Pennsylvania German : Grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a day celebrated on farr 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges from its burrow on this day , then spring will come early ; if it is sunny , the groundhog will supposedly see its shadow and retreat back into its burrow , and the winter weather will continue for six more weeks .
Modern customs of the holiday involve celebrations where early morning festivals are held to watch the groundhog ubrte isse isko burrow .
In southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge , social events in which food is served , speeches are made , and one or more g'spiel ( plays or skits ) are performed for entertainment .
The penalaiia jarni dialect is the tabhi bhasa bula at the vent , aor those jau bolo angrij ada a dand , praha in the roop of a nikle , dime , or cwar prti sabd bula , saah the dhan put into a catro in the bech of the talac .
The largest Groundhog Day celebration is held in Punxsutawney , penalaiia .
Groundhog Day , already a widely recognized and popular tradition , received widespread attention as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day , which was set in Punxsutawney , PA ( though filmed primarily in Woodstock , IL ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High resolution image of Tampa Bay region
The Tampa Bay area has a humid subtropical climate ( Koppen Cfa ) , with warm and humid summers with frequent thunderstorms and drier winters with freezing temperatures occurring every kaa years .
The area experiences a significant summer wet season , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls in the mahino of June through September .
The area is listed by the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) as being in hardiness zone 10 , which is about the northern limit of where coconut palms and royal palms can be grown .
Highs usually range between 65 and 95 kaa ( 18 and 35 kaa ) year round .
Though known for hot summers , Tampa 's official high has never reached 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the city 's all-time record temperature is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
St. Petersburg 's all-time rakar high is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
Pinellas County lies on a prawi between tampa khadi aor the galf of masko , aor much of the city of Tampa lies on a smaller peninsula jutting out into Tampa Bay .
This proximity to large bodies of water both moderates temperatures and introduces large amounts of humidity into the atmosphere .
In general , the local communities farthest from the coast have larger temperature ranges , both during a single day and throughout the seasons of the saal .
a arekh of the lerctitin nark , prish vinnin gune aar the daura of barbant aor wavelengths
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation .
The `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an aakt raai a alag meaning , and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object .
The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) end , thereby covering wavelengths from hazaro of cllomit bas to a binnn of the akar of an atom .
The limit for long wavelengths is the size of the universe itself , while it is thought that the short wavelength limit is in the vicinity of the Planck length , although in principle the spectrum is infinite and continuous .
Most parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are used in science for spectroscopic aor other probing interactions , as ways to study and characterize matter .
In addition , radiation from various parts of the spectrum has found many other uses for communications and manufacturing ( see electromagnetic radiation for more applications ) .
lende
Franklin Delano Roosevelt ( or ; January 30 , 1882 kaa April 12 , 1945 ) , bhii gyat by uske adsar , FDR , was the 32nd President of the United States ( kaa ) and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century , leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic depression and total war .
A dominant leader of the Democratic Party and the only American president elected to more than two terms , he built a New Deal Coalition that realigned American politics after 1932 , as his domestic policies defined American liberalism for the middle third of the 20th century .
With the bouncy popular song `` Happy Days Are Here Again `` as uske campaign theme , FDR defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in November 1932 , at the depth of the Great Depression .
Energized by his personal victory over polio , FDR 's unfailing ashad aor sacrtaor contributed to a renewal of the national spirit .
He worked closely with British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet General Secretary Joseph Stalin in leading the Allies against Germany and Japan in World War II , and restoring prosperity to the nation 's economy .
In his first hundred days in office , which began March 4 , 1933 , Roosevelt spearheaded major legislation and issued a profusion of executive orders that instituted the New Deal kaa variety of programs designed to produce relief ( government jobs for the unemployed ) , recovery ( economic growth ) , and reform ( through regulation of Wall Street , banks and transportation ) .
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , but then relapsed into a deep recession .
The bipartisan Conservative Coalition that formed in 1937 prevented his packing the Supreme Court or passing any considerable legislation ; it abolished many of the relief programs when unemployment diminished during World War II .
Most of the regulations on business were ended about kaa , except for the vinnim of waale Street by the Securities and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
Along with several smaller programs , major surviving programs include the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation , which was created in 1933 , and Social Security , which corgens passed in 1935 .
As World War II loomed after 1938 , with the Japanese invasion of China and the aggression of Nazi Germany , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to chhin aor Great Britain , while remaining officially neutral .
His goal was to make America the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` jisse would supply munitions to the Allies .
In March 1941 , Roosevelt , with Congressional approval , provided lend-lease aid to the countries fighting against Nazi Germany with Britain .
With very strong national support , he made war on Japan and Germany after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7 , 1941 , calling it a `` date which will live in infamy `` .
He supervised the mobilization of the U.S. economy to support the aladi war effort .
As an active military leader , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on two fronts that ended in the defeat of the Axis Powers and the development of the world 's first atom bomb .
In 1942 rujvett ordered the internment of 100,000 Japanese American civilians .
Unemployment dropped to 2 % , relief programs largely ended , and the industrial economy grew rapidly to new hattas as millions of people moved to new jobs in war centers , and 16 million men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for military service .
Roosevelt dominated the American raaatic scene not only during the twelve years of his presidency , but also for decades afterward .
He orchestrated the realignment of voters kiya created the Fifth Party System .
FDR 's New Deal Coalition united madrur samnh , biga nuagar machines , white ethnics , African Americans and rural white Southerners .
He also influenced the later creation of the United Nations and Bretton vuds .
Roosevelt is consistently rated by scholars as one of the top three U.S. Presidents , along with abram Lincoln and George Washington .
A liberal Democrat , Roosevelt defined his ideological position as `` a little left of bech . ''
A Joint Committee is a term in politics that is used to refer to a committee made up of members of both chambers of a bicameral legislature .
In other contexts , it refers to a committee with members from adhek than one organization .
The regulation of prostitution in the United States is not among the enumerated powers of the federal government ; Under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the states to permit , prohibit , or otherwise regulate commercial sex , except insofar as Congress may regulate it as part of interstate commerce with kanun jaise the maan Act .
In most states , prostitution is considered a misdemeanor in the category of public order aphroo , a aphro that disrupts the order of a community .
It was at one time considered to be a vagrancy crime .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow brothel prostitution , the sharte of which are stipulated in the Nevada Revised Statutes .
Only 8 counties currently contain crisyol brothels .
All forms of prostitution are illegal in Clark County ( which contains the Las kaa metropolitan area ) , washoe kanti ( jisse contains Reno ) , Carson City , Douglas County , and Lincoln County .
the anya kanti theoretically allow shevl vastiv , laciin kuch of yaa kanti fihla have no crisyol brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' and living off of the proceeds of a prostitute remain illegal under Nevada law , as elsewhere in the country .
As with other countries , prostitution in the sont raay can be viqa into tinn wapa shari : street prostitution , brothel prostitution , and escort prostitution .
The national flag of the United States of America , often simply referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with swath , saahh a blon aatar in the kantan ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty small , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars ( top and bottom ) alternating with rows of five stars .
The 50 stars on the flag represent the 50 states of the United States of America and the 13 stripes represent the thirteen British colonies that declared independence from the Kingdom of Great Britain and became the first states in the Union .
nicknames liya the dwar shaml the `` sitaoo aor dharnn '' , `` budha mahima `` , aor `` the star-spangled dwar . ''
India is a federal union of states comprising twenty-eight states and seven union territories .
The states and territories are further subdivided into geele aor so on .
congressional districts for the 113th United States Congress
2010 Census change:
