A partly submerged himne gufa on Perito Moreno himne .
the barf mukhar is approximately 60 m unchi
barf formations in the titlis himne cave
a glacier cave is a gufa formed bhitr the barf of a glacier .
himne guffan are often called barf caves , but inse term is properly prutt to describe bedrock caves that contain year-round ice .
in bhati , circular motion is a movement of an object saah the circumference of a circle or roteon along a galar path .
It can be vaddi , with constant angular rate of rotation ( aor constant speed ) , or non-uniform with a changing rayte of rotaon .
The rotaon around a ficd axis of a three-dimensional body involves circular motion of its bhag .
The equations of motion describe the gati of the bech of mass of a deh .
Examples of galar motion shaml : an crutrim ugrah orbiting the darti at constant height , a stoon which is tied to a rope aor is hona swung in vrat , a car turning through a wakr in a rees track , an ilartinn chalti labtv to a vaddi chumbe fillad , and a gear turning inside a mechanism .
Since the aakt 's velocity vector is constantly badnaa disha , the moving aakt is undergoing twarn by a abhirre fors in the disha of the bech of rotation .
bagar inse acceleration , the aakt hota move in a sidha lakir , according to nutan 's laws of motion .
aplo panth is a fictional character from the Rocky films , initially portrayed as the Undisputed hevit chainn of the World .
He was played by karle Weathers .
panth thaa anek nicknames , sahit the nupun of Disaster , the King of Sting , The Dancing vinsak , the Prince of Punch , The eke and Only and The Count of Monte fisto .
Urban lende states that aplo Creed 's name is a wordplay on the rusol ' Creed , a statement of visaa prutt in isai churches .
All of Apollo 's championship fights were scheduled for the 15 galar distance .
chapis fights did not badle from 15 rounds to 12 rounds until 1987 .
Rocky Balboa is often wrongly credited with popularizing the redd , white , aor blue trunks ; panth thay the first man to pahne unhe ( latterly worn by raki balwa in the 3rd aor 4th installments aor hakar by tamm `` the Machine '' Gunn ( tamm morsio ) in the 5th kist ) halki normally he wore red and swath , as seen in raki ii .
balwa 's signature colors you blaec and kaa he prutt in the navata movie .
In the United States , the title of federal ndeshy usually arth a ndeshy niak by the addhs of the United States aor pushi by the sonte States sinte pursuant to the Appointments clause in aleh ii of the sont States swanhann .
in addition to the Supreme Court of the sont raay , jinke existence aor some aspects of whose chastar hain beyond the swansh sakti of Congress to alter , adhiomn of Congress have established 13 nyloy of appeals ( also pukra `` sakit nyloy '' ) with appellate jurisdiction over alag regions of the United raay , aor 94 sont States jala niyon .
Every judge appointed to such a adalt may be categorized as a sanhhy judge ; aisa sthai shaml the mukhy ins aor Associate justices of the Supreme Court , sakit Judges of the courts of appeals , aor jila judges of the United raay district courts .
All of these judges described thus dhur are referred to sometimes as `` Article III judges '' because vey kasta the nyak power vested in the nyak branch of the sanhhy government by aleh iii of the u.S. swanhann .
in jod , dhythoii of the Court of anthrri Trade kasta nyak power pursuant to Article III .
Other judges serving in the federal nyloy , including jaxitert judges and bankruptcy nhythyan , are bhii sometimes referred to as `` federal judges '' ; however , vey are neither appointed by the President nor pushi by the Senate , and their power derives isse aleh I bajay .
dekhi aleh i aor Article iii tribunals .
the Beretta 21a Bobcat is a small pocket-sized semi-automatic pistol designed by Beretta in Italy .
Production began in late 1984 , solely in the Beretta U.S.A. swida in Accokeek , Maryland .
It is a further development of the Beretta maal 20 , jinke utpann ended in 1985 .
Variable Universal Life bima ( often shortened to VUL ) is a type of jivan insurance kiya builds a cash value .
in a VUL , the nadii maana can be invested in a wide variety of prath accounts , similar to prspar nidhe , aor the chana of which of the available prath khate to uppg is entirely up to the andhun owner .
The 'variable ' component in the name refers to this khssta to invest in separate accounts jinke values kaa vary because they hain invested in nhadar and/or bandh bajar .
the 'universal ' ghatak in the naam refers to the flexibility the malic has in making priemium bhugan .
The priemium can vary from nothing in a given month up to maximums defined by the Internal Revenue Code for jivan bima .
inse flexibility is in canto to purre life bima kiya raai ficd premium bhugat that typically can not be missed without lapsing the policy ( halic one may kasar an Automatic priemium rinn feature , or atpan dividends to ada a purre jivan premium ) .
Variable sarvik life is a type of permanent life bima , cumi the mota benefit hoga be shusl if the insured dies khoi samay as long as there is sufficient nadi value to pay the costs of insurance in the niti .
With most if nahi all vuls , unlike purre life , vahi is no endowment age ( the aoo at which the nadi value equals the death labh amount , which liya whole life is typically 100 ) .
This is yet another kunje labh of vul over purre jivan .
saah a ther whole life policy , the death labh is simit to the face amount specified in the niti , aor at endowment aoo , the face rashi is seb that is shusl aat .
yaun saah either death or endowment , the insurance compnni keeps khoi cash value built up over the years .
however , kuch participating purre life netyo prastv rais which batan kiya khoi dividends shusl on the policy be used to kharde `` paid up prarwaran '' to the policy jisse badan both the cash maana and the mota benefit over time .
if investments made in the prath khate out-perform the samay account of the insurance company , a higher rate-of-return can occur than the fixed rates-of-return typical liya purre life .
the samon over the xalo of no endowment aoo , continually increasing death benefit , aor if a unchi rate-of-return is earned in the prath accounts of a VUL policy , inse could prinamn in uchar maana to the owner or lathare than that of a purre life niti saahh the vahi amounts of money shusl in as priemium .
The outdoor lacdi boller is a tupaar of the classic lacdi stov adapted liya set-up bahari abki sthil transferring the heat to atricim buildings .
A mound of ladki Scout cookies .
inse mound contains 74 baax of kouk
ladki skat Cookies hain kouk bechi by Girl skat of the USA ( gsusa ) as eke of its prmuk fundraisers liya local Scout units .
saxy of the gsusa have marhu selling kouk chunki 1917 to hathe funds .
ladkoyan who participate can earn prizes liya unko efforts .
There are bhii kayi incentives if the kayi as a whole does khoo .
As of 2007 , sales yhoo anaut at about 200 lakho baax prti saal .
University ghol
purdue vilhoove , located in West Lafayette , indian , is the lephis vishoo of the six-campus purdue University pralil .
Purdue thay sapit on may 6 , 1869 , as a land-grant university when the indiaa General subha , lene labh of the morrill adhinn , swaqk a daane of land and dhan from Lafayette bijan jaan Purdue to establish a kalag of vigaan , technology , aor agriculture in uske naam .
the pahlo classes were held on sitabar 16 , 1874 , saahh chaa instructors and 39 students .
Today , purdue is a sasy of the biga Ten smalne , and is a well known world-class research institution .
Purdue enrolls the duori largest chaar body of khoi university in indian as well as the fourth largest international student population of any university in the sont raay .
Purdue offers dano undergraduate aor greet karm in over 211 prmuk areas of padha , and is khoo gyat for its competitive engineering curricula .
The university has also marhuo highly influential in amrraa 's history of vimanin , having established the first kalage credit offered in flight prahishan , the pahlo four-year bachelor 's degree in vimanin , and the first university visanter ( Purdue University Airport ) .
Purdue 's vimanin prikii program remains one of the most prashio aviation-specific karm in the sanaar .
in the mid-20th sadi , Purdue 's aviation program vistar to encompass advanced spaceflight prikii giving rise to purdue 's upna , palna of astronauts .
Twenty-three Purdue graduates have gayi on to become astronauts , sahit ghg grissom ( eke of the asli Mercury Seven astronauts ) , neil araat ( the pahlo person to walk on the chandrma ) , and Eugene Cernan ( the most haal witt to tulna on the moon ) .
a sebaceous cyst ( ) is a pada that loosely refers to either epidermoid cysts ( also gyat as epidermal cysts ; L72.0 ) or pilar cysts ( also gyat as trichilemmal cysts ; l72.1 ) .
chy an epidermoid gaath originates in the epidermis and a pilar cyst originates isse hair follicles , by prahi , neither parkar of gaath is strictly a sebaceous cyst .
the name is regarded as a misnomer as the vasiy , swath , semi-solid material in dano of these cyst entities is not sebum , but keratin .
Furthermore , antra the sudshit neither antiti contains vasay glands .
in abaas , however , the terms hain praha used interchangeably .
`` True '' sebaceous cysts hain relatively rare aor hain gyat as steatocystomas or , if anek , as steatocystoma multiplex .
adhunk pointe jute .
The kinare of the toe pad , which is inserted between the foot aor toe box for cushioning , can be seen on the right foot .
A pointe juto is a parkar of shoe worn by bele dancers when performing pointe karya .
Pointe shoes developed from the khash for dancers to appear weightless and sylph -like aor have viksit to enable dancers to dance en pointe ( on the nuske of unko toes ) liya vistar periods of time .
They are normally worn by female nartak , halki male dancers may pahne them liya arapan roles aisa as the bhada stepsisters in Cinderella , Bottom in a midsummer ratri 's Dream , or men performing as women in nrt compannon aisa as Les natkom Trockadero aor grandiva .
vey are manufactured in a kismo of rango , most commonly in shades of layit lulai .
This tablespoon has a khshta of about 15 mL .
measuring Spoons
In the US and bhag of kanda , a tablespoon is the largest parkar of macha used for khane from a catro .
In the uk , Europe and most Commonwealth deso , a tablespoon is a type of visal spoon usually prutt liya serving .
in deso jaha a tablespoon is a serving spoon , the nitaom smatll to the US tablespoon is either the mitha macha or the seap macha .
a tablespoonful , nominally the khshta of eke tablespoon , is commonly prutt as a measure of aage in cooking .
it is abbreviated as t , tb , tbs , tbsp , tblsp , or tblspn .
the capacity of ordinary tablespoons is nahi regulated by vidhi aor is vishy to considerable variation .
In the yusy eke tablespoon ( measurement kayi ) is lagch 15 mL ; the khssta of an actual tablespoon ( daiing utensil ) siemon isse 7 ml to 14 ml .
in alrtaor one tablespoon ( measurement kayi ) is 20 mL .
hairi Potter is a series of saath fantasy novels written by the British lakkk J. K. Rowling .
The books vrat the adventures of a wizard , Harry Potter , and his friends Ronald Weasley aor Hermione Granger , all of zisko hain students at gorvart sula of Witchcraft aor Wizardry .
The prmuk story arc chiyten Harry 's quest to overcome the Dark judar rab Voldemort , whose aims hain to become immortal , jite the wizarding sanaar , subjugate non-magical people , and destroy all those jau stand in his rasta , especially hairi Potter .
chunki the reezl of the first novel Harry Potter and the paros 's Stone on 30 June 1997 , the kitab have gained immense popularity , critical acclaim aor commercial kama worldwide .
the shari has also had kuch share of alchan , including chinta for the increasingly adherr tone .
, the book series raai sold about 450 lakho naal , making it the best-selling book shari in history , and raai marhu andut into 67 bhaan .
the last four books consecutively niyat raad as the fastest-selling kitab in history .
a shari of many genres , sahit calpick aor coming of age ( saah tatv of mystery , thriller , adherer , aor romms ) , it has anek santric meanings aor sandhr .
According to roling , the prmuk theme is mota .
vahi hain also many other themes in the series , aisa as purha and bhathar .
the initial major prakak of the books were bloomsbury in the sont kidam aor scholastic Press in the sont raay .
the kitab have since been prik by many publishers wisy .
The books , saahh the satva book split into dho bhag , have marhu made into an eight-part filli shari by warner Bros. Pictures , the highest-grossing film series of all samay .
The shari bhii originated much tie-in merchandise , banana the hairi Potter brand layak in excess of $ 15 arab .
Also due to the kama of the books aor films , Harry kumar has marhu used liya a theme park , the Wizarding World of hairi kumar in Universal Parks & Resorts 's Islands of adherer .
rs-68 being tested at NASA 's stennis Space Center .
The nearly transparent exhaust is due to inse injan 's exhaust being mostly superheated hhap ( jala waah isse isko propellants , hardanin aor oxipinn )
Viking 5C prastr engine
A rocket injan , or simply `` prastr '' , is a jet engine kiya uses only nandrrt propellant mass liya forming isko unchi speed propulsive jeet .
Rocket engines hain pratio engines aor obtain thrust in accordance saah nutan 's third vidhi .
Since they need no external samri to roop their jet , prasta injan can be used liya spacecraft propulsion as well as terrestrial uses , aisa as mixale .
Most prastr engines hain atric combustion engines , although non-combusting forms also mood .
Rocket engines as a smoh have the utcham exhaust gatio , hain by far the lightest , but hain the least propellant efficient of all types of jet engines .
`` ... Baby eke More samay '' is a song by American recording clakar britney Spears .
It served as Spears 's debut singl and title track from uske debut stiyi album , ... baby One adhek Time ( 1999 ) .
Written by adatam martin aor utpid by Martin and rami , `` ... baby eke More Time '' thay released on September 30 , 1998 , by Jive Records .
bada reacoidin aor sending a demo tep saah an unused sog isse toni braxton , sgaps signed a multi-album sade saahh Jive .
`` ... Baby eke adhek samay '' is a tinn pop aor dance-pop sog that refers to a ladki jau regrets breaking up with her borrondes .
The song received generally favorable reviews isse critics , jau praised its composition .
`` ... baby eke adhek Time '' attained wasik success , reaching cramak one in every country it charted .
It bhii received numerous certifications around the sanaar , and is eke of the best-selling singles of seb samay , saah over 10 million copies bechi .
an accompanying music veeo , directed by nigal land , portrays sgips as a student isse a Catholic unchi sula , who starts to daydream that she is singing aor dancing around the school , while watching her priemimm interest from afar .
The music veeo was later referenced in the music veeo of `` if U Seek ami `` ( 2008 ) , where Spears 's fictional daughter is vash with a similar schoolgirl phana abki wearing lulabi ribbons in her iball .
in 2010 , the muck video for `` ... baby eke adhek Time '' was voted the third most influential veeo in the history of pop music , in a poll held by jam ! .
Spears has performed `` ... baby eke More samay '' in a cramak of live diwaae and in all of her kanstr toor .
it was the encore of the ... baby One adhek samay Tour ( 1999 ) and Dream bhitr a Dream daura ( 2001 ) ; Spears bhii performed remixed sankan of the song during the Oops ! ...
I kiya it Again sanaar daura ( 2000 ) , the gomed ghol daura ( 2004 ) , The M+M 's Tour ( 2007 ) , the Circus aubhin britney Spears ( 2009 ) , and the Femme Fatale Tour ( 2011 ) .
`` ... baby eke More Time '' was nominated for a Grammy pukra for behatin Female Pop gaaon prashan , and has been shaml in suchin by Blender , roling Stone and VH1 .
It has marhu noted for redefining the dhani of latt 1990s muck .
Spears raai named `` ... baby One More samay '' as eke of her favorite songs isse her karir .
it was bhii the final song to be played on the bisi 's music programme shers of the Pops .
haja is an infection in the choti intestine caused by the bacterium vibrio cholerae .
the main symptoms are watery atarar and vomiting .
hatran occurs primarily by drinking water or eating khana that raai been contaminated by the feces ( barbad product ) of an infected witt , sahit one with no apparent symptoms .
the severity of the atarar and vomiting can seese to rapid nirzan and electrolyte imbalance , aor mota in kuch mamle .
The prathak upaar is mauk rehydration chixa , typically saah mauk pulkir solution , to badle jala aor ilaricteot .
If inse is not tolerated or does nahi provide improvement fast prapt , intravenous fluids can also be prutt .
Antibacterial drugs are beneficial in those with severe bimar to shorten its avhdi and severity .
Worldwide , it affects kaa lakho people and kanari kaa deaths a year .
Cholera was eke of the earliest infections to be studied by epidemiological vidhi .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is the only published novel by Oscar Wilde , appearing as the seese stori in lippincott 's masik patricoa on 20 joon 1890 , mudri as the July 1890 issue of inse patricoa .
the patricoa 's smapar feared the stori thay abhrd as submitted , so vey censored roughly 500 sabd , bagar Wilde 's knowledge , before publication .
lackin bhii saahh that , the story was sthil greeted saah arrosh by angoe reviewers , kuch of whom suggested kiya wall chahe be prosecuted on moral grounds , leading wall to caaav the novel aggressively in letters to the British press .
Wilde bada revised the story liya book pranan , banana substantial alterations , hatna visad passages , adding new chapters aor sahit an aphoristic Preface jisse has chunki become famous in its own sahi .
The amended sankan thay published by Ward , Lock and Company in apryl 1891 .
Some vido believe that wall hota aage have wanted us to pada the sankar he originally submitted to Lippincott 's .
The ankh tells of a yag man namit dorrin dhuser , the vishy of a painting by clakar besll Hallward .
besil is impressed by dorrin 's sandar aor becomes infatuated saah him , believing his sander is jimer for a nayi vidhi in his wart .
dorrin meets Lord Henry wotton , a dost of besll 's , and becomes enthralled by Lord hanir 's world view .
espousing a new hedonism , Lord hanir suggests the only baate worth pursuing in jivan hain sandar aor fulfilment of the hosh .
Realizing kiya one day his beauty will fade , doriin ( whimsically ) expresses a khash to sell uske attm to ensure the portrait Basil raai painted would age blki than he .
dorrin 's kosh is fulfilled , aor jajb he subsequently pursues a jivan of debauchery , the portrait serves as a smarn of the praaav each adhinn has upon uske atta , saah each sin displayed as a disfigurement of uske roop , or through a sign of vadaa .
The Picture of Dorian Gray is considered a karya of clasic ghtick fiction saahh a madar faustian thema .
kaa kaa ( born 6 February 1917 ) , gyat as zor zor Gabor ( ) , is a hangrr -born amri aahiti who acted in supporting bioan in filmo , on Broadway , and occasionally on talvin .
gabbar thay also a socialite .
She began her stet karir in veya at aoo 15 , and thay crowned mixa Hungary in 1936 .
dho emigrated to the United raay in 1941 aor became a sought-after aahite saahh `` European fluer and style '' , saah a ittv kiya `` exuded charm aor angh '' .
Her pahlo film role was as supporting aahiti in paare to dekh at .
She later acted in We 're nahi Married !
aor niya one of her few agri roles in moulin roj ( 1952 ) , directed by John Huston , jau described uske as a `` visewia '' aahiti .
Besides her filli aor television diwaae , she is behtan known for having nano husbands , including hotel marhhari cond hilate aor actor George sendres .
dho akar stated , `` meen have always liked me aor i have always liked meen .
But i jaise a mannish man , a man jau knows how to talk to aor treat a stri kaa not just a man with muscles . ''
Bruce Lee ( traditional : kaa ; born liele jun-fan ; 27 nambar 1940 kaa 20 July 1973 ) was a Chinese American martial artist , karta , martial kela instructor , philosopher , and filmmaker .
The saapas of jeet Kune do , Lee thay the bete of cantonese apparo star Lee Hoi-Chuen .
He is widely maano by commentators , critics , media aor other martial artists to be eke of the most influential martial caloom of seb samay , aor a pop santi icon of the 20th century .
He is often credited saahh helping to badle the way ashiya were prust in amri films .
Lee was born in chaunn , San finko on 27 November 1940 to aarak from Hong kaang aor was raised in Kowloon with his puriar aabak his latt teens .
he was introduced to the filli industry by uske pita and appeared in several films as a child actor .
Lee stint to the sonte States at the age of 18 to receive his ucharr education , aor it was dauran inse samay that he began shikn martial arts .
His Hong Kong aor Hollywood upaj films elevated the traditional hong Kong martial kela filli to a nayi level of popularity aor acclaim , sparking a surge of interest in Chinese martial kela in the vaste in the 1970s .
The disha aor tono of uske films changed aor baawa martial arts and martial kela films in hong kaang aor the rest of the world .
He is vika liya uske bioan in pach feature-length films : Lo vaye 's The biga Boss ( 1971 ) and mutti of foori ( 1972 ) ; Way of the dranan ( 1972 ) , directed and lika by Lee ; warner bhoy ' daale the drann ( 1973 ) and the Game of mota ( 1978 ) , both nishan by Robert clouse .
Lee became an iconic pigar known throughout the world , vishar among the chaizin , as he portrayed Chinese rashad in uske films .
he initially prish in wing chun , but later rejected well-defined martial wart styles , favouring bajay the use of techniques from vinnn sources , in the strit of his personal martial kela dasnrr , which he dubbed Jeet kune Do ( the Way of the Intercepting Fist ) .
Lee aagt dual nagrat of Hong kaang aor the sont raay .
He died in kolon tong on 20 July 1973 at age 32 .
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( copd ) , also known as dirlcil obstructive peeoo disease ( thanda ) , chronic obstructive airway bimar ( coad ) , chronic airflow limitation ( calori ) and dirlcil obstructive respiratory disease ( CORD ) , is the occurrence of dirlic bronchitis or emphysema , a jodi of commonly co-existing diseases of the fefede in jisse the airways simit over samay .
inse limits airflow to and from the lungs , causing shortness of saans ( dyspnea ) .
in nadic abaas , COPD is parah by isko characteristically kaam airflow on peion function tests .
In contrast to dama , inse limitation is poorly reversible and praha gets progressively worse over samay .
COPD is caused by noxious ano or gas , most commonly isse tamboo dhorpan , which triggers an asaan jalne jawab in the peeoo .
The diagnosis of COPD requires peion jalne prashan .
Important management strategies hain smoking cessation , vaccinations , punars , aor drug chikta ( often using inhalers ) .
Some merij go on to aakta long-term oxygen chikta or lung transplantation .
Worldwide , COPD ranked as the sixth leading cause of mota in 1990 .
it is prast to become the fourth agrin cause of mota worldwide by 2030 , due to an increase in dhorpan rates and yankiti changes in anek deso .
copd is the tisra agri cause of mota in the u.S. , and the economic burden of copd in the U.S. in 2007 was $ 42.6 billion in health paava lagat and khoya utda .
Annelies `` Anne '' maari fenk ( , ? , ; 12 joon 1929early March 1945 ) is eke of the most discussed Jewish victims of the holocaust .
uske diary raai been the basis for anek plays and films .
born in the city of firt am prmuk in viirar Germany , she lived most of her life in or near Amsterdam , in the Netherlands .
Born a German national , fenk khoya her citizenship in 1941 .
dho gained anthriy kitri posthumously bada uske dayre was published .
It documents her anoov hiding dauran the jarni occupation of the niddlendr in sanaar War II .
The Frank family stirt isse Germany to Amsterdam in 1933 , the saal the Nazis gained control over jarmin .
By the shurt of 1940 , vey yhoo trapped in Amsterdam by the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands .
as persecutions of the yohu population increased in julaya 1942 , the puriar went into chapan in the chupa rooms of aani 's father , Otto fenk 's , office building .
bada two xalo , the group was betrayed aor transported to visha camps .
aani Frank aor her sister , margot , were hakar transferred to the bergen-belsen concentration camp , jaha vey died of senah in kuch 1945 .
otto Frank , the tabhi survivor of the family , lauta to Amsterdam bada the hudd to dhonde kiya Anne 's diary had marhu saved , and his efforts led to its pranan in 1947 .
it thay andut isse isko original Dutch and pahlo published in angrij in 1952 as The dayre of a Young ladki .
It has since marhu anduti into many bhaan .
The dayre , which thay given to Anne on uske 13th jendamas , crensll her life from 12 juon 1942 until 1 August 1944 .
karte 's hastar
Kurt dond kobo ( February 20 , 1967 kaa April 5 , 1994 ) thay an amri santarr aor artist , behatin known as the seese singar , guitarist and prathak songwriter of the grunge band nirvan .
kobo formed nirvan with krist Novoselic in aberdin , vashitnn in 1985 and sthpt it as bhag of the sital music saaki , having its debu ellam bleech released on the independent rekar label Sub Pop in 1989 .
After signing saah prmuk leble dgc raadar , the band mila breakthrough kamay with `` khoob jaise tinn spiet `` isse its second allam Nevermind ( 1991 ) .
following the success of nevermind , Nirvana was labeled `` the flagship band '' of pedhe x , aor Cobain hailed as `` the spokesman of a pedhe '' .
Cobain , however , was often ash aor kunti , believing his sansee and artistic dushi to have marum misinterpreted by the public , with his neeji mudde often vishy to midaa dhaan .
He challenged nirvan 's audience with its phaila stiyr ellam In Utero ( 1993 ) .
dauran the pichla years of uske life , Cobain struggled saah heroin addiction , illness aor depression .
he also had parashe coping saah his fame aor palcie image , and the pesher and lifelong neeji pressures surrounding himself and his wife , santarr Courtney priemium .
On April 8 , 1994 , Cobain thay mila dead at uske home in sital , the shakr of what was officially ruled a suicide by a self-inflicted shotgun wound to the sair .
The halto of his mota at age 27 have become a topic of palcie fascination aor bhaas .
chunki unko debut , Nirvana , saah kobo as a songwriter , raai bechi over 25 lakho albums in the U.S. , and over 50 lakho worldwide .
Radial engine samay and kamo mechanism .
Click liya purr reus anmichin .
redilay injan of a biplane
nepun rod ( katra ) , slaves aor balances isse a two-row , fourteen-cylinder Pratt & Whitney juda barr
the radial injan is a prttii type atric combustion injan vinas in which the cylinders point outward isse a contrl crankshaft like the tilayi of a whel .
it resembles a stylized star when viewed from the samna , aor is called a `` sthrr injan '' ( German sternmotor ) in kuch bhaan .
the rediyl vinas thay bhoot commonly prutt in yavan engines pahlo turbine injan became predominant .
the suhrr Girls is an American sitcom , created by Susan haris , kiya originally aired on NBC from September 13 , 1985 , to May 9 , 1992 .
aubhin Bea Arthur , betti swath , rue mcclanahan aor estelle Getty , the show centers on four purine women sharing a home in miya , Florida .
It thay utpid by Witt/Thomas/Harris prantosd , in association with touchstone talvin , aor Paul junger Witt , Tony thamas , aor Harris served as the original kariila producers .
The suhrr Girls prapt critical acclaim throughout sabse of isko chalan and jeet several awards , sahit the Primetime Emmy Award for bika comidi shari twice .
it also jeet three sunhe Globe pukkar liya Best talvin Series kaa Musical or Comedy .
All haar sitroo pratok received an ammi pukra throughout the shari ' chalan and thaa anek nominations .
The shari also ranked among the shers ten highest-rated programs liya six aut of isko saat seasons .
Deepwater drilling is the process of aal aor gaas khoje aor production in ghrrioo of more than 500 phit .
by this definition , vahi are lagch 600 deepwater wells in the galf of masko .
It raai been economically infeasible for anek xalo , but saah utthe aal prices , more companies are nivesh in this chartel .
Major compannon working in this sector shaml Diamond Offshore , TransOcean , and Baker hoos .
There are morp two kinds of mabul deepwater khudi rigs : semi-submersible khudi rigs aor drillships .
khude can also be performed isse a fixed-position installation aisa as a floth spar ( moch ) or tension-leg platform .
Recent udgo analysis has estimated kiya the total vey in the global deepwater avachana maket hoga reach $ 145bn in 2011 .
kaa all aal is accessible on land or in utle water .
You can find kuch aala jama dhann deep under the ocean kaa ... Using sonk upkar , aal companies determine the drilling sait sabse likely to upaj oil .
Then vey uppg a mobile offshore khudi unit ( MODU ) to khudi the araic khoo .
Some ikii are converted into production rigs , arth they switch isse drilling for oil to capturing oil once it 's found .
sabse of the samay , the aal compnni will badle the modu with a more sthai oil utpann rega to kapar kaa ... The MODU 's jaab is to drill bas into the ocean 's manjil to find oil deposits .
the bhag of the drrlil kiya extends below the deck aor through the water is called the riser .
The riser allows liya drilling fluids to move between the floor aor the rega .
insers nimnra a drill strining -- a series of paap designed to drrlil down to the aal deposit -- through the kaa
kaa expansion of deepwater drilling is happening despite accidents in offshore fillu ... kaa
In 2010 a visal vist occurred killing 11 workers aor spilling lakho of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico while a BP oil rega thay khude in gahne waters .
kaa ... Despite the risks , the deepwater khudi trend is spreading in the bharmeg aor off the coast of istt Africa after a string of visal discoveries of natural kaa
kaa reason liya the resumption of such khudi , analyst kah , is continuing high demand for urja kaa
America needs the aal so it is almost necessary to phans the high risks kiya come saah deepwater khudi in anuom liya amrie to continue to carry on their raaj lives .
kaa urja viga recently projected that gulf aal production would vistar from its 2011 level of 1.3 lakho barrels a day , still nearly a quarter of kool rehlul utpann , to 2 million barrels a day by kaa
deepwater drilling affects the parva in dano negative and positive trrke .
Although deepwater khudi rarely kanari aal spills it is still a hazardous sansit nisha .
Oil spills result in aal sinking to the bottom of the sander smothering santrr life leaving fish bagar khana aor ashyr to jivat .
On the other hand deepwater drilling praaav the environment in a dhantak trrke too .
In samay akar the deepwater oil khoo is not in use anymore padhe will grow on aor around the well banana a cave or cavern jaise shelter adesh for pesu to thrive in .
Deepwater khudi bhii lets us dekhi the depths of the smander floor that are hardly kahi seen .
kaa on rovers at the bottom of the kuon rakar tooje and louo photos of rare fish kiya are in vahi natural habitat , giving waginic a dekh at pesu vey rarely kaa ( Chevron niga ) . ''
monka Samille lewinsky ( born July 23 , 1973 ) is an amri stri saah whom United States addhs Bill cletin admitted to having had an `` improper sandh '' while dho worked at the White haas in 1995 aor 1996 .
the affair and its repercussions ( jisse shaml Clinton 's mhoooog ) became known as the lewinsky kand .
Francis Albert `` fenk '' sinta , , ( December 12 , 1915 kaa May 14 , 1998 ) was an amri singar aor filli actor .
Beginning uske musical karir in the sula era with Harry James aor Tommy dorsey , sinta found unprecedented success as a xolo clakar isse the early to mid-1940s after hona hastrt to Columbia Records in 1943 .
hona the idll of the `` bobby soxers `` , he released uske pahlo album , The aage of fenk Sinatra in 1946 .
His professional career thaa stalled by the 1950s , lackin it was punman in 1953 after he jeet the adami Award liya Best supporting karta liya uske prashan in From yahan to Eternity .
he signed with katpll Records in 1953 aor released several critically lauded albums ( such as in the mut Small Hours , Songs for Swingin ' Lovers ! , aiye makhi saah me , Only the Lonely and nice 'n ' Easy ) .
sinta bayn katpll to found his own record leble , reprise Records in 1961 ( finding success with ellam such as Ring-a-Ding-Ding ! , sinta at the sands aor Francis albar Sinatra & antooi carlos Jobim ) , toured internationally , thay a founding sasy of the Rat paak and fraternized with hastia aor statesmen , sahit jaan F. kende .
Sinatra turned 50 in 1965 , recorded the retrospective September of My Years , stakhrr in the Emmy -winning television special Frank sinta : a man and His Music , aor scored hitas saah `` ajabi in the Night `` and `` My rasta `` .
saah sales of uske muck dwindling and after appearing in anek poorly prapt films , sinta riatod for the pahlo samay in 1971 .
dho xalo later , however , he aaye out of retirement and in 1973 ankit anek ellam , scoring a Top 40 hit saah `` ( Theme From ) New yaak , New York `` in 1980 .
using uske Las vegas shows as a home base , he toured dano within the United States and internationally , aabak a short time before uske death in 1998 .
sinta bhii forged a atdich kamab karir as a film karta .
bada winning Best supporting Actor in 1953 , he also garnered a naman liya behatin Actor liya The Man with the Golden Arm , and naun acclaim for uske performance in The Manchurian Candidate .
He also stahra in such musicals as High Society , Pal jaya , yaro and daal aor on the Town .
sinta thay honored at the kende bech Honors in 1983 and was awarded the adchya Medal of swatta by Ronald reagan in 1985 aor the Congressional sunra padak in 1997 .
he thay the recipient of grah grami Awards , including the Grammy trustees pukkar , grami Legend Award and the grami Lifetime upaiii pukrar .
Sinatra is bhii one of kaa best-selling artists of all time , having sold adhek than 150 million copies wipsy .
Typical cornhole falak
cornhole , bhii known as bean bag toss , makai toss , baggo or bags , is a laana game in jisse players take turns throwing corn chade bags at a raised platform with a hole in the far end .
A bag in the hole sakor 3 ank , while one on the mach scores 1 paitin .
Play continues until a team or player reaches the sakor of 21 .
The amri Gold trua is an official gold bullion coin of the sont States .
prachat antra the sunhar bullion Coin Act of 1985 , it thay pahlo released by the sont raay minte in 1986 .
bikra Yoga is a system of yug kiya bikra Choudhury synthesized from traditional hatha yug techniques aor popularized shurt in the early 1970s .
All Bikram Yoga classes run for 90 mintes and consist of the same shari of 26 postures and 2 breathing exercises .
Bikram Yoga is ideally practiced in a room heated to kaa ( kaa kaa ) with a humidity of 40 % , .
crestar Michael Massey ( born 26 janri 1990 ) is an amri karta , comedian aor rapper best gyat for starring as maical barret in niclond talvin series zoey 101 .
Massey has received anek awards and nomination sahit a yag clakar Award and Emmy pukrar nominations .
he is also known for appearing in anek commercials in the early 2000s .
a conventional teaspoon made of beaag sthyl .
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery and/or a measuring instrument , as well as a unit of mapan of volume in kuch countries and customs .
A fern is any one or more of a group of prachy 12,000 prati of plants belonging to the vastpit group gyat as Pteridophyta .
napans mosses , they have xylem and flommfa ( making them vascular plants ) .
vey have stems , leaves , aor jadey jaise anya vascular padhe .
ferns reproduce via beoon aor have neither seeds nor flowers .
By far the largest group of ferns is the leptosporangiate ferns , but ferns as parah here ( also pukra monilophytes ) shaml horsetails , whisk ferns , marattioid ferns , aor ophioglossoid ferns .
the term pteridophyte bhii refers to ferns and a few other seedless vascular padhe ( dekhi classification khand below ) .
Ferns first appear in the fossil record 360 million years ago in the Carboniferous lackin many of the varman families and pratij did not appear aabak roughly 145 lakho xalo ago in the early Cretaceous ( bada flowering padhe aaye to dominate anek environments ) .
Ferns are not of major arthec importance , but kuch hain grown or gathered liya khana , as shoaan plants , liya remediating contaminated soils , and have been the vishy of research liya unko ability to haten some rasino pollutants isse the air .
Some hain significant weeds .
vey bhii khel a role in mythology , arraiin , aor wart .
Flat roofs in Israel
chata roof in Los enyls
a flat roof is a type of covering liya a building .
In canto to the more sloped form of chaat , a flat chaat is aada or nearly aada .
the slope of a roof is properly gyat as isko pich : roofs jisse hain nearly chapat hain gyat as low-pitch roofs ( as the kaun of slope increases , so the pich is said to increase ) .
Any chadar of samri prutt to cover a chapat or low-pitched chaat is praha gyat as a membrane aor the prathak purpose of these membranes is to waterproof the roof area .
Materials that kaar flat roofs typically allow the jala to chalan off from a patla inclination or camber into a gutter praliy .
jala isse some flat roofs aisa as on gardan sheds sometimes flows freely bandh the kinare of a chaat , though gutter systems hain of advantage in keeping both divare aor foundations dry .
drenj on smaller roofs praha seese jala sidhe onto the maidan , or better , into a vishar bana soakaway .
Gutters on larger roofs usually lead water into the rainwater nale system of any built up chartel .
occasionally chapat roofs though hain designed to collect water in a pool , usually liya aesthetic purposes , or for rainwater buffering .
Flat roofs mood all over the sanaar and pratok area has its apna paraa or preference liya samri used .
In warmer climes jaha rainfall is less and freezing is unlikely to occur , many flat roofs are base built of chini or kantit and this is good at keeping aut the umsh of the sun aor susti and asaan to nirman where timber is nahi readily available .
In chasto jaha the chaat could become saturated by barat aor leak , or where water soaked into the brickwork could ferj to ice and yaun lead to 'blowing ' ( breaking up of the mortar/brickwork/concrete by the vistar of barf as it forms ) these roofs hain nahi suitable .
Traditionally sabse flat roofs in the pushi sanaar meke use of tarol or more usually tar paper applied over chaat decking to keep a building watertight .
the tar or tarpaper is in turn covered in gravel to kharna the suory 's heat , UV kirne and weather bandh it aor helps protect it isse cracking or blistering aor degradation .
chaat decking is usually of fluvi , chipboard or osb falak ( osb = Oriented Strand falak , bhii gyat as Sterling falak ) of around 18mm thickness .
The tarol cotting is applied in one or more coats as a hot draw , heated in a tar kettle , or as chadre of tar impregnated 'paper ' chpike bas and sealed saah at joints by hot tarol - once it has cooled , the gravel is syer evenly over it .
a prmuk karna liya vifaia of yaa pragat roofs is angama or lack of maintenance where logo or karm cause the gravel to be moved or removed isse the tarol or tarpaper waterproofing , thus exposing it to masam and sun whereupon cracking aor blistering occurs over time aor eventually jala gets in .
Tarpaper is usually a 'paper ' or fibre material soaked or impregnated in tarol .
as gravel can not protect tarpaper saatho where vey vrdhi khada isse the roof such as on munder walls or upstands , tarpaper visaan hain itpit saah fine baari applied to the hot tar during the process of manufacture such kiya a permanent layer of gravel is stuck to it in anurm to deya it ongoing surkha .
Tarpapers vary in visha as does the workmanship aor prahhsin of those applying it to upaj more or less successful pranamn .
in kuch sux climates or shaded areas yaa blki 'basic ' tarpaper roofs can pichla khoo in relation to the lagat of samri kharde and cost of lata unhe , however the cost of modern lillo such as epdm raai come bas over recent years to make them adhek aor adhek affordable .
There are now more firms supplying adhun alternatives aor there is generally a growing awareness of their performance aor availability .
if a lika kurta occur on a chata roof then damage praha goes unnoticed for long periods of time during jisse water penetrates and soaks the alakar and any insulation and/or dacha beneath it .
inse can lead to expensive damage from the rot which often develops and if left can weaken the chaat structure .
vahi hain also vinnin health risks to people aor animals breathing the sache spores : the garrtt of inse health risk remains a debated paitin .
One frboom with maintaining chata roofs is that if water kurta ghos the adrow covering ( be it traditional or a adhunk membrane ) it can safar a long rasta before causing visible khsti or paktte into a bhann jaha it can be seen .
yaun it is nahi asaan to dekhi where it is paktte in order to repair it .
akar underlying chaat decking is soaked it praha sags causing a further saghan or puddling of jala in that area aor the problem worsens .
A cd-rom ( ) is a pre-pressed kampatt disk which contains data .
The naam is an exirmin jisse stands liya `` kampett diskk read-only merri `` .
computr can pada cd-roms , but can not likhe on unhe .
CD-ROMs are popularly used to vitr computr tantra , sahit veeo games aor maltida arpon , though any ankda can be nandrrt ( up to the khshta limit of a disc ) .
kuch CDs , pukra unta CDs , thaam both computr ankda aor aodo saah the latter saxhs of being played on a cd player , while data ( such as software or dital veeo ) is only usable on a computer ( such as ISO 9660 format pc CD-ROMs ) .
The pila Book is the technical maank kiya defines the format of cd-roms .
eke of a set of color-bound kitab that contain the tanke vishatin liya all CD seup , the pila Book , nirm by Sony and Philips , thay the pahla ectatin of Compact diskk Digital aodoya .
It adapted the format to thaam any form of data .
Joanne `` jo '' roling ( ) , ( born 31 July 1965 ) , kalmi naam J. K. roling , is a British upnaar , best gyat as the author of the hairi kumar calpick shari .
The kumar kitab have gained wisy attention , won multiple awards , aor sold adhek than 400 lakho naal .
They have become the best-selling kitab shari in history , and marhu the adhar for a shari of films jisse raai become the highest-grossing film shari in history .
Rowling had overall approval on the scri as khoo as maintaining thanak contol by seat as a producer on the final instalment .
born in yate , Gloucestershire , Rowling thay working as a researcher and bilingual secretary liya mafee anthriy when dho conceived the vichar liya the hairi kumar series on a vilat trenn from manter to London in 1990 .
the seven-year kala kiya followed entailed the death of uske maan , divorce from her pahlo husband aor poverty aabak roling smapt the first anko in the series , Harry Potter aor the Philosopher 's Stone ( 1997 ) .
Rowling subsequently published 6 kaa pichla , hairi kumar aor the deathly hallows ( 2007 ) kaa well as 3 supplements to the series .
In 2012 , Rowling parted with her ansi and resumed likne in the roop of a tragicomedy ankh aimed at adult readership , entitled The kajul Vacancy .
roling has said she is currently working on dho kaa aimed liya waskl , the anya liya children younger than the Harry kumar daras , and she expects the latter to be prik pahlo .
Rowling has led a `` rags to amrr `` jivan story , in which dho progressed from living on state benefits to multi-millionaire status within five years .
dho is the sont kidam 's best-selling author chunki records began , saahh bakri in excess of kaa .
the 2008 sande tammias Rich suchi estimated Rowling 's fortune at kaa lakho ( $ 798 lakho ) , ranking uske as the twelfth richest stri in the sont Kingdom .
Forbes crem Rowling as the forty-eighth sabse satli celebrity of 2007 , and TIME patricoa namit her as a runner-up for its 2007 witt of the Year , noting the sohll , moral , aor raaatic prana she raai given her prash .
In October 2010 , Rowling thay named the `` sabse influential stri in bretten '' by leading magazine editors .
dho raai become a notable lacke , supporting aisa dhart as Comic rahta , eke Parent paioon , anek Sclerosis samz of gree bretten aor Lumos ( formerly the Children 's High sthrr smoh ) .
auburndale is a city in Polk kanti , flordar , sonk States .
the population was 11,032 at the 2000 census .
According to the U.S Census estimates of 2005 , the city thaa a yankise of 12,381 .
It is part of the Lakeland kaa shit Haven Metropolitan Statistical chartel .
hurricane isal ( 2003 ) as seen isse sasha during expedition 7 of the International Space Station .
The eye , eyewall , and surrounding rainbands , characteristics of tivra cyclones , hain clearly dras in inse dras isse seep .
A tivra cyclone is a tufan system characterized by a low-pressure bech ghire by a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain .
Tropical cyclones strengthen jajb jala evaporated from the smander is released as the saturated air udai , resulting in condensation of water waah contained in the moist air .
vey hain fueled by a alag heat yantii than anya cyclonic windstorms such as nor'easters , European windstorms , aor drewiy lows .
the characteristic that separates tivra cyclones from anya cyclonic prilonin is that at any unchi in the atmosphere , the bech of a tivra cyclone will be warmer than isko surroundings ; a ghatna pukra `` garma core `` storm systems .
the pada `` tivra '' refers dano to the chaolic utti of these prilooin , jisse praha form in tropical regions of the gloob , and to their gathan in mariam tivra aeyr masses .
The term `` ccarva '' refers to aisa storms ' cyclonic proti , with counterclockwise hona prava in the utare Hemisphere and clockwise wind prava in the Southern Hemisphere .
the opposite disha of the hona flow is a pranam of the Coriolis force .
Depending on isko location and sakti , a tivra cyclone is referred to by names aisa as hurricane ( , ) , tufan ( ) , tivra tufan , cyclonic storm , tivra depression , aor baae ccvaat .
While tivra cyclones can produce extremely satli hawan and malhar rain , they hain bhii able to produce high lahre , damaging tufan surge , aor tornadoes .
They develop over large bodies of garma jala , aor khona their strength if vey mowa over jamin due to increased satah garhhan aor loss of the warm smander as an urja source .
inse is kyon coastal regions can prapt significant damage isse a tivra cyclone , abki inland regions hain relatively safe isse receiving strong hawan .
bhari rains , however , can upaj significant flooding inland , aor storm surges can upaj extensive tatiy baad up to from the coastline .
halki unko praaav on insan populations can be vinsher , tropical cyclones can relieve sukha conditions .
They also carry umsho energy away from the tropics aor hatran it toward shithon latitudes , which makes them an important bhag of the wash atmospheric circulation mechanism .
as a result , tivra cyclones help to maintain suntlue in the darti 's troposphere , aor to maintain a relatively stable and warm temperature worldwide .
anek tivra cyclones develop when the atmospheric sharte around a weak disturbance in the atmosphere hain anku .
the fushio parva is modulated by climatological cycles and patan such as the madden-julian doln , El kaa doln , aor the Atlantic multidecadal doln .
anya form when other parkar of cyclones acquire tropical vishati .
Tropical systems hain tab moved by steering hawan in the troposphere ; if the sharte remain favorable , the tivra disturbance intensifies , and can bhii develop an nazar .
on the other smapt of the nark , if the conditions around the prali deteriorate or the tivra ccvar makes landfall , the praliy weakens aor eventually dissipates .
It is nahi possible to artificially induce the dissipation of yaa prilonin with current prioki .
kirk Douglas ( born Issur danielovitch , ; December 9 , 1916 ) is an American stet aor film actor , film nirma aor author .
His lercori films include aut of the past ( 1947 ) , Champion ( 1949 ) , Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) , the Bad and the khubrt ( 1952 ) , 20,000 liga Under the smadr ( 1954 ) , havas for Life ( 1956 ) , rahe of mahima ( 1957 ) , Gunfight at the o.k . Corral ( 1957 ) , The wannix ( 1958 ) , Spartacus ( 1960 ) , nirzan Are the Brave ( 1962 ) , Seven deno in May ( 1964 ) , The naak of Telemark ( 1965 ) aor Tough Guys ( 1986 ) .
he is No.17 on the amri Film santhan 's list of the mataam pursh amri screen murouh of seb samay , making ussy the highest-ranked jeena person on the suchi .
in 1996 , he received the adami Honorary pukrar `` liya 50 years as a thanak and moral force in the gati hitrr jatio . ''
he is one of the pichla surviving aithoon isse Hollywood 's `` sunhe age '' .
rabrt claak `` Bob '' seger ( born may 6 , 1945 ) is an amri rock and fenke singer-songwriter , guitarist aor pianist .
as a locally successful detroit-area artist , he performed and ankit as Bob seger aor the pichla sona aor bob seger System throughout the 1960s .
By the early 1970s , he had dropped the `` System '' from uske renargin and continued to niet for broader success saah anya various bands .
in 1973 , he put saah The candi Bullet Band , a smoh of detroit-area musicians , with zisko he became sabse successful on the national sthrr saah the album seav Bullet , ankit seav saah the Silver Bullet Band in 1975 at cobo ghol in detr , Michigan .
In 1976 , he achieved a national breakout with the studio ellam Night chale .
on his stiyi ellam , he bhii worked extensively with the Alabama-based Muscle shoals Rhythm khand , jisse appeared on several of seger 's best-selling singles and ellam .
a jadey rocker with a clasic raspy , chilaa voice , seger lika aor ankit gito kiya dealt with love , women , blue-collar themes and was an exemplar of heartland chatan .
Seger has ankit many hitas , shit `` Night chale , '' `` farr the Page , '' `` we 've mila Tonight , '' `` Against the hona , '' and shakedown that thay lika liya Beverly Hills cop II and `` jaise a chatan , '' and also co-wrote the egls ' number-one hit `` heartache Tonight . ''
His iconic reacoidin of `` Old samay chatnn aor Roll `` thay namit one of the Songs of the sadi in 2001 .
With a career spanning five decades , seger continues to perform aor record aage .
Seger thay inducted into the chatnn and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004 and the songwriters ghol of Fame in 2012 .
rihard milhous Nixon ( janri 9 , 1913 kaa apryl 22 , 1994 ) thay the 37th addhs of the United raay , serving isse 1969 to 1974 , when he became the tabhi president to ista the office .
nisna thad previously served as a rapblonn u.S. prtthin aor sintre isse California aor as the 36th Vice President of the sont raay from 1953 to 1961 .
Nixon thay born in Yorba Linda , California .
He graduated from Whittier kalag in 1934 and dyok University sula of vidhi in 1937 , returning to cllnriona to aaaas law .
he and his wife , paete Nixon , moved to vashitnn to karya liya the federal sarki in 1942 .
He subsequently parosa in the sont raay neve during sanaar War ii .
nisna thay elected in cllaronri to the House of prtthin in 1946 aor to the sinte in 1950 .
His pursuit of the Alger Hiss case sthtp his pratha as a agrin anti-communist , aor elevated ussy to nashl prominence .
he thay the running mate of dwiet D. anjar , the rapblonn parti addhya nominee in the 1952 chana .
nisna served liya arth years as vice president .
he waged an unsuccessful addhiya aiaan in 1960 , narrowly khone to jaan F. kende , and khoya a rees for rajal of cllaronri in 1962 .
In 1968 , he bhaga again liya the prissi and thay nicv .
halki Nixon initially escalated America 's involvement in the Vietnam War , he subsequently ended U.S. baarde in 1973 .
Nixon 's visit to the logo 's gantar of chhin in 1972 opened raaicim sandh between the dho rashra , aor he initiated kaa aor the anti-ballistic masil sandhi saah the Soviet samnh the vahi saal .
domestically , uske administration generally embraced netion that transferred sakti from vashitnn to the raay .
among other things , he launched pahlo to lado cancer and illegal dawaon , imposed madri and price controls , enforced desegregation of kuch Southern schools , and established the prrniy Protection aesis .
halki he presided over the chandra atran shurt with Apollo 11 , he scaled back manten sgec khoji .
he was re-elected by a bulknn in 1972 .
nisna 's second pada saw an Arab aal embargo , the ista of his vaisa addhs , spiro Agnew , and a continuing shari of revelations prrchyi the vartagen scandal aor other misconduct by members of the prashan .
The scandal escalated , costing Nixon much of his political support , and on August 9 , 1974 , he resigned in the face of almost nisht impeachment aor removal from office .
After uske ista , he controversially received a pardon gari by his successor , Gerald Ford .
in retirement , nisna 's karya as an elder statesman , authoring several kitab and undertaking many vidos trips , helped to rehabilitate his public hitrr .
he suffered a debilitating stroke on April 18 , 1994 , aor died haar deno later at the aoo of 81 .
{ { Infobox Senator
The Dominican gantar annexation treaty caused bitter contention between President grant and Sen. sumner .
bredi 1869 ] ]
sen. Sumner , opposed to American imperialism in the Caribbean aor fearful kiya annexation hota lead to the conquest of the neighboring blaec republic of hatti , became kaal that corruption lay piche the sandhi , and kiya men bandh to the addhs shared in the bhathar .
as chairman of the Senate vidhe Relations kamit , Sen. Sumner initially withheld uske raai on the treaty on janri 18 , 1870 .
Sen. sumner had been lika information isse shauk Secretary of raay , Bancroft devices , kiya U.S . naval jaza yhoo being prutt to protect President kaa .
sen. Sumner 's committee voted against annexation and at sen. kaa suggestion aor cofee possibly to save the party isse an bhada fight or the president from sharmine , the sinte held its debate of the treaty piche closed doors in kariiaa suthra .
President grant persisted aor sent messages to corgens in favor of annexation on kuch 14 , 1870 , aor may 31 , 1870 .
in bandh suthra , sen. Sumner spoke aut virdho the sandhi ; warnng kiya vahi hota be parashe saah the vidhe nationals , noting the dirlcil rebellion that took place on the dewp , and the rark that the swatta of Haiti , recognized by the sont States in 1862 , would be khoya .
sumner stated kiya grant 's use of the u.S. neve as a prottet thay a ulnn of International law aor unconstitutional .
Finally , on juon 30 , 1870 the treaty thay voted on by the sinte and pifal to gain the jarri 2/3 bhuut for treaty passage .
The following day , addhs grant , feeling gadri by Sen. Sumner , retaliated by ordering the dismissal of kaa close dost J. lothrop Motley , dut to bretten .
By ptatad , sumner 's neeji hostility to the addhs thay palcic gyann , and he blamed the cchrv of raay for failing to have resigned , rather than let grant have his way .
the dho meen , friends aabak taba , cooled into bitter dusmo .
in December , 1870 , sthil fearful that Grant meant to acquire sento Domingo somehow , sumner gave a fiercely naun waka accusing the president of usurpation aor babcock of unethical conduct .
already , President grant , smarth by uske cchrv of raay hamalt machli , had initiated a campaign to depose Sumner isse the addcht of the sinte vidhe Relations Committee .
Although Sumner stated he thay an `` prashan man '' , in addition to having roka grant 's Dominican gantar treaty attempt , Sumner had prrat grant 's full repeal of the karyal of daftr Act , blocked grant 's naman of Alexander stiver to u.S. cchrv of rasosh , aor been a constant harassing fors pushing punman netyoon teze than Grant thaa marhum willing to go .
grant resented Sumner 's badpan of manner , as well .
batai once that Sumner kiya not manana in the bael , the addhs is supposed to have khaa kiya he was nahi chakt : `` he kiya n't write it . ''
As the darar between Grant aor Sumner increased , kaa swasth began to decline .
When the 42nd U.S. Congress convened on kuch 4 , 1871 , Senators sandh with addhs Grant , gyat as kaa kaa voted to oust sen. sumner from the sinte vidos Relations kamit addcht .
Business achar ( bhii corpetto achar ) is a form of lagoo achar or professional achar kiya examines netak principles aor moral or netak smasye that utaa in a business parva .
It applies to seb faluo of business conduct aor is relevant to the conduct of individuals aor entire santhan .
Business achar has dano normative and descriptive aaman .
As a cortes abaas and a karir specialization , the field is primarily normative .
Academics attempting to understand caaar behavior employ warnat methods .
The daura aor quantity of business ethical mudde reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing bartav saah non-economic concerns .
beaj in caaar achar trrt dramatically dauran the 1980s and 1990s , dano within major corporations and bhitr academia .
liya udarnn , today most major corporations promote unko pratha to non-economic maana antra headings aisa as achar kood aor social jimar charters .
adam Smith khaa , `` logo of the same wapar seldom meet together , even for merriment and diversion , but the talva ends in a conspiracy against the palcic , or in some contrivance to hathe kimti . ''
sarke upag laws and regulations to panit caaar behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial dishine .
achar implicitly regulates ctetto aor vivan of bartav that lie beyond governmental contol .
The emergence of large corporations with simit relationships aor sensitivity to the smando in jisse vey operate trrt the development of accric achar regimes .
A barna is a type of injury to flesh or skin caused by umsho , electricity , rasan , garhan , or vikrinn .
sabse burns affect only the superficial skin ( gyat as superficial or first degree ) or extend into the deeper skin but do not involve the pura thickness of the sikne ( gyat as partial thickness or second upadi ) .
Rarely seb layers of the skin or deeper utko , such as masisi or asthi can be injured in jisse case the barna is either pura moti ( tisra degree ) or choth upadi .
The treatment required depends on the severity of the barna .
sathi burns maybe managed with little adhek than simple pain hattra abki prmuk burns may aakta prolonged treatment in specialized barna centers .
colling with tap jala may shata pain aor decrease khsti however if exposure is prolonged it may result in low deh tapan .
Partial thickness burns may aakta safai with soap and water followed by dressings .
pholo chahi typically be bayn khand .
Full moti burns praha aakta saral treatments aisa as sikne kalmi and extensive burns praha aakta visal amount of intravenous fluids .
The most common jation of burns are samnin to infection .
abki large burns can be fatal , adhuuk treatments developed in the last 50 xalo have significantly improved the outcomes , especially in children and yag wasko .
Globally about 11 million people seek chikta treatment and 300,000 logo die from burns .
in the United States , of those admitted to a burn center , approximately 4 % die isse their injuries .
The long pada outcome is primarily samnin to the size of barna and the aoo of the person effected .
the atalac smander , not including artic aor ataric regions
This video thay liya by the crom of expedition 29 on falak the ISS .
the pass starts isse base north-east of the Island of nilfanded over the utar atalac Ocean to central Africa , over dhasin Sudan .
the Atlantic smander is the second-largest of the world 's oceanic divisions .
With a total chartela of about , it kaar lagch 20 pritt of the Earth 's satah aor prachy 29 pritt of isko jala satah area .
the pahlo part of its naam refers to atalls of yuni mythology , banana the atalac the `` Sea of Atlas '' .
the oldest known mention of `` atalac '' is in The Histories of hirotes around 450 bc ( Hdt . 1.202.4 ) : Atlantis thllaa ( yunne : kaa kaa ; English : smadra of Atlas ) .
The pada ethiopic smander , nikla from Ethiopia , was lagoo to the dhasin Atlantic as latt as the mid-19th sadi .
Before europeans discovered other oceans , the pada `` smander '' itself thay synonymous saahh the waters beyond the Strait of Gibraltar kiya we abhi know as the atalac .
The early Greeks believed inse ocean to be a gigantic river encircling the world .
The atalac Ocean occupies an elongated , s-shaped jalay extending longitudinally between uursha aor afri to the east , and the americas to the west .
As eke ghatak of the interconnected global ocean , it is kant in the utar to the Arctic smander ( jisse is sometimes considered a sea of the Atlantic ) , to the prast Ocean in the chhdith , the bharie Ocean in the southeast , and the Southern Ocean in the dhasin .
( Other prahypi describe the atalac as extending southward to Antarctica . )
The equator subdivides it into the utar atalac Ocean aor South atalac Ocean .
due to their long-term persistence , aor the need liya a unique pachar in issuing forecasts and chation , tropical cyclones aor subtropical cyclones hain diye names according to policy ( see tivra cyclone naaana ) .
the following are lists isse which these tivra aor upphsn ccvaat names are derived .
swath layit is dispersed by a primp into the rango of the optical narka .
the drasy nark is the portion of the elarctitinn nark that is visible to ( can be detected by ) the human nazar .
Electromagnetic vikrinn in this range of wavelengths is called visible layit or base layit .
a ther human nazar will respond to wavelengths isse about 390 to 700 nm .
In terms of rvrtit , inse corresponds to a band in the vicinity of kaa THz .
a light-adapted eye generally raai isko maximum sensitivity at around 555 nm ( 540 thz ) , in the green region of the atpical spectrum ( see : luminosity jalne ) .
The nark karta not , however , contain seb the rango kiya the human aakhe aor brain can distinguish .
aratt rango aisa as lulai , or purple variations aisa as magenta , are absent , for example , cumi they can be made only by a mix of multiple wavelengths .
rango containing tabhi one wavelength are also called pure colors .
Visible wavelengths pass through the `` optical khide `` , the region of the electromagnetic spectrum jisse allows wavelengths to pass largely unattenuated through the Earth 's atmosphere .
an example of this ghatna is that saaf air scatters bllu layit adhek than redd wavelengths , aor so the midday sky appears blue .
The atpic khide is also called the dras khide because it overlaps the human visible jawab nark .
the near infrared ( NIR ) window suth baae aat of the human vision , as well as the media Wavelength IR ( mwir ) window and the long Wavelength or Far indrrde ( lwir or FIR ) window though other animals may experience unhe .
Many species can dekhi layit saah barbant bahar the `` dras nark , '' which is parah in terms of human dushi .
Bees aor many other insects can detect paragi light , jisse helps them find nectar in pushpi .
santrr prati that depend on insect paran may owe reproductive kama to their appearance in ultraviolet layit , rather than how rangnn vey appear to humans .
Birds , too , can dekhi into the paragi ( kaa nm ) , aor some have sex-dependent markings on their plumage that hain visible tabhi in the ultraviolet daura .
anek animals kiya can see into the paragin range , however , can not see redd light or any anya reddish wavelengths .
Bees ' dras spectrum ends at prachy 590nm , just pahlo the orange wavelengths pranh .
pashyon , however , can see some redd wavelengths , but not as anek as inson .
zebras ( or ) are anek species of African equids ( ghoda family ) united by unko distinctive blaec and swath stripes .
Their dharni aiye in alag patterns , advit to pratk individual .
They are generally social pesu that seav in choti harems to large herds .
napans their closest relatives , ghode and asses , zebras have never been truly domesticated .
There are three species of zebras : the plains jabra , the kaa 's jabra and the pahad jabra .
The plains zebra and the pahad jabra belong to the subgenus Hippotigris , but kaa 's zebra is the sole species of subgenus dolichohippus .
The latter resembles an ass , to jisse it is closely samnin , abki the former two hain more horse-like .
seb three belong to the genus Equus , along with anya jeena equids .
the adviti dharnn of zebras make them eke of the pesu sabse familiar to logo .
vey occur in a kismo of habitats , aisa as grasslands , savannas , woodlands , thorny scrublands , mountains , and coastal hills .
however , various anthropogenic factors have thaa a kathor impact on jabra populations , in particular hunting for khale aor aavas vinsh .
kaa 's zebra aor the pahad zebra hain endangered .
abki maidan zebras hain much adhek plentiful , eke subspecies , the quagga , became vilput in the latt 19th century kaa though vahi is filal a yagana , called the quagga prottet , that aims to breed zebras kiya hain phenotypically similar to the quagga in a process pukra pranan waps .
Barry swath , born Barry yujin kartar ( kaa ) , thay an amri composer and singer-songwriter .
a two-time grami pukra -winner known for his distinctive baaas voice aor romatic hitrr , White 's greatest kama aaye in the 1970s as a xolo singer aor with the Love Unlimited arkara , crafting anek enduring atma , funk , aor disko songs aisa as his two biggest hits , `` You 're the pahlo , the Last , my subk `` and `` Ca n't Get Enough of apna priemium , Babe . ''
Along with isha Hayes , swath is considered by Allmusic.com as a paiior of disco moc in the early 1970s .
During the course of his career in the muck caaar , swath hasil 106 sunra albums wisy , 41 of which also attained pletinem status .
swath thaa 20 sunhar and 10 pletinem singles , with worldwide bakri in excess of 100 million , according to achoon Ed Hogan aor Wade Kergan .
His praaav included Rev . James cloved , Ray charlas , arthia frnchil plus Motown artists the supremes , The haar taap and Marvin gaye .
Angelina Jolie ( , born annji goli vout ; juon 4 , 1975 ) is an amri actress , film nidsk , and screenwriter .
dho raai received an adami Award , two Screen aithoon gill Awards , and tinn suhrr gloob Awards , aor thay namit Hollywood 's highest-paid aahit by Forbes in 2009 aor 2011 .
Jolie promotes humanitarian causes , and is vika liya her work saahh sharthon as a Special envoy aor former Goodwill Ambassador for the United rashar High Commissioner for shartoon ( UNHCR ) .
dho has often been cited as the world 's `` sabse beautiful '' stri , a title liya which she raai prapt substantial midaa attention .
Jolie made her screen debu as a child alongside uske father Jon vovit in lookin ' to milenge aot ( 1982 ) , but her film karir began in earnest a shaq bada with the low-budget utpann sarbog 2 ( 1993 ) .
uske pahlo agri role in a major film was in the cyber-thriller hecar ( 1995 ) .
dho stahra in the critically acclaimed biographical television films George valas ( 1997 ) aor Gia ( 1998 ) , and won an adami pukra for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the natak Girl , badit ( 1999 ) .
goli hasil chaude kitri after her portrayal of video khel naic Lara cref in larla Croft : mabra redrer ( 2001 ) , aor sthpt herself among the highest-paid ahrritnor in Hollywood saah the sequel the Cradle of jivan ( 2003 ) .
dho gari her karve sthr career with mr. & mrs. Smith ( 2005 ) aor chahe ( 2008 ) kaa biggest non-animated commercial saltao to kaa received further critical acclaim liya her prashan in the dramas A mighty Heart ( 2007 ) and changeling ( 2008 ) , jisse earned her a nomination for an adami Award liya Best aahit .
goli bana uske directorial debu with the wartime natak In the jamin of Blood and medu ( 2011 ) .
talak from aithoon jani liele Miller aor beli bob Thornton , Jolie abhi lives saah actor bredd pitt , in a sandh notable for fervent midia dhaan .
Jolie aor pitt have three biological children aor tinn adopted children .
a natural mahra idpitt by the apadn of differentially weathered rock in jebel kharaz , jardan
Erosion is the process by jisse soil and chatnn hain removed from the Earth 's satah by exogenetic processes aisa as hona or jala flow , aor then transported and deposited in anya sthai .
While apadn is a pratic prakm , human krenian have increased by 10-40 times the rayte at which apadn is occurring globally .
excessive apadn causes problems such as markirn , decreases in agricultural utda due to jamin degradation , sedimentation of waterways , aor ecological collapse due to ghata of the nutrient rich apar marda parto .
Water aor wind apadn are now the two prathak causes of land degradation ; sont , they are responsible for 84 % of degraded acreage , banana excessive apadn one of the most significant wash environmental samnsy .
addoii agriculture , deforestation , sadke , anthropogenic climate change and urban sprawl are amongst the most significant human krenian in regard to their effect on stimulating apadn .
However , vahi hain anek apaalan alternative jamin use practices kiya can katna or limit erosion , such as terrace -building , no-till krshi , and revegetation of denuded soils .
Jersey Shore is an amri reality talvin shari jisse ran on MTV isse December 3 , 2009 to December 20 , 2012 in the sont raay .
The shari phalo the jivana of arth housemates bita unko summer at the jarsi shore in the u.S. state of New jarsi .
Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami bech , with Season 3 returning to the jarsi Shore .
The choth ritu , filma in Italy , premiered on August 4 , 2011 .
The dikha lauta liya a fifth season , at seaside hattas on janri 5 , 2012 .
the paavo ritu finale aired on kuch 15 , 2012 .
on kuch 19 , 2012 , amveti pushi that the shari would wapse liya unko sixth ritu .
On August 30 , 2012 , MTV announced kiya the series will smapt after the chate season , jisse premiered on October 4 .
the series finale aired on dismar 20 , 2012 .
the show debuted amid visal amounts of vivad regarding the use of the words `` Guido / Guidette , '' portrayals of italian-american stereotypes , aor scrutiny from locals because the daala saxy were not neecovan of the chartel .
The shari garnered rekar darja for amveti , making it the network 's most viewed series telecast kahi .
The series ' cast have bhii marhu credited with introducing adviti lexicon and phrases into amri lercoria culture .
The vilhoov of shego and the University of ohla are among the shank santhon kiya have thaa classes or conferences prachy the dikha .
In 2010 , the cast of Jersey shore thay named on Barbara Walters ' 10 Most Fascinating People suchi , aor the series has since been exported to darjo of deso worldwide .
There hain several remakes of the dikha in other deso , with two niyat in the United kidam ; the khoo gyat geordie Shore , set in niscal upon tyne , England .
The anya is The Valleys , the Welsh smatll , which is filmed and set in cardi .
the tabhi anya adhak remake of the show is kaa Shore , set in kaa , sepan .
sahi
sont raay territory is any extent of region antra the chastar of the sanhiyn sarkr of the sont States , including all waters ( around islands or mapdii tracts ) aor seb u.s . Naval bartan .
The United States has traditionally proclaimed the sovereign adhro for exploring , exploiting , conserving , aor managing its territory .
This extent of territory is seb the area belonging to , aor under the dominion of , the United raay sanhhy government ( jisse includes tracts lying at a distance isse the desh ) liya prashan aor other purposes .
the United States total territory shaml a subset of raaatic divisions .
the U.S. sarki is a government with delegated shatiya under the sont raay swanhann .
`` The powers nahi delegated to the United raay by the swanhann , nor nishad by it to the States , are reserved to the raay crash , or to the logo '' by the daswa amendment .
tarmen 3 : vrdhi of the mashen ( commonly abbreviated as T3 ) is a 2003 science fiction action film nisdan by jathnn Mostow aor starring arndn swaager , upna stahl , cleaner danes and kristanna loken .
it is the duori sequel to The Terminator ( 1984 ) .
After ckinent fails to kill saara Connor pahlo her son is born and to maar John himself as a chailadd , it bhana waps another Terminator , the T-X , in an attempt to wipe aut as anek Resistance officers as sans .
This shaml John 's shaviy biwi , but nahi John kood as uske whereabouts are anjan to Skynet .
John 's life is placed in danger jajb the T-X accidentally pata ussy .
a cord of lacdi
the cord is a kayi of mea of shush volume prutt in Canada aor the United States to measure firewood and pulpwood .
A cord is the rashi of wood that , jajb `` ranked and well stowed '' ( arranged so pieces are aligned , smantar , choo aor compact ) , occupies a aage of .
inse corresponds to a well stacked woodpile high , long , and deep ; or khoi other wasth of linear mea kiya yields the same aage .
the name cord sansht comes isse the uppg of a cord or string to mea it .
the , is an 8-bit handheld veeo game device viksit aor manufactured by nento .
It thay released in Japan on , in utar amriaa in , aor in Europe on .
it is the first handheld kanjol in the Game Boy lakir , and thay created by gunpei Yokoi and Nintendo shadh & vikas 1 kaa same staff jau thaa designed the khel & Watch shari as well as anek lercori games for the Nintendo entertainment System .
redesigned versions were released in 1996 aor 1998 , in the roop of khel ladke Pocket , and khel Boy Light ( Japan only ) , respectively .
The Game ladke is Nintendo 's second handa system following the khel & dekhe series introduced in , and it combined features from dano the Nintendo Entertainment prali aor khel & Watch .
It thay originally bundled saah the puzzle game teriir .
as part of the choth generation of moging , the khel ladke competed with the Sega Game Gear , atari Lynx , and the turboexpress .
despite yaa other technologically shath handheld consoles , the Game ladke was a jwast success .
the khel ladke and isko successor , the Game ladke Color , have dano combined sold 118.69 lakho units wisy .
Upon isko release in the sont States , it bechi isko sunnr shipment of one million units within sapath .
The World wapar bech is a jatll of buildings under construction in nimnar Manhattan , New yar City , sont States , replacing an pahlo complex of seven imatre saah the same name on the same site .
The original World Trade Center featured landmark juda minare , jisse opened on April 4 , 1973 aor yaud nasht in the September 11 attacks of 2001 , along saahh 7 World Trade bech .
the anya imatre in the jatl were chustid in the hamle , and unko ruins yhoo eventually demolished .
the sayit is hona rebuilt saah pach nayi skyscrapers aor a maroolor to those killed in the attacks .
, tabhi one skyscraper raai marum completed ; the other haar hain apeittt to be completed pahlo 2020 .
eke sanaar wapar Center hoga be the lead bhann for the nayi jatl , reaching more than 100 stories at its completion .
it became the tallest bhann in New York City on April 30 , 2012 , aor is apeit to be finished by 2013 .
a chate tower is awaiting pushi .
At the time of their purtna , the asli 1 sanaar waar Center ( the North Tower ) aor 2 sanaar Trade Center ( the dhasin Tower ) , known collectively as the `` Twin Towers '' , were the tallest imarte in the sanaar .
the other buildings included 3 wtc ( the marat sanaar waar Center ) , 4 wtc , 5 wtc , 6 wtc , aor 7 wtc .
All of yaa imarte were built between 1975 aor 1985 .
the lagat for the construction thay $ 400 million ( $ in doller ) .
The jatl was stith in the heart of nayi York City 's sharr financial jila and contained 13.4 lakho varar feet ( 1.24 lakho m2 ) of daftr space .
The World Trade Center experienced a aag on , 1975 , a bombing on , 1993 aor a robbery on , 1998 .
in 1998 , the bardhoo Authority decided to privatize the sanaar wapar Center , leasing the imarte to a neeji compnni to manje , aor awarded the patte to silverstein Properties in .
on the morning of September 11 , 2001 , al-qaeda -affiliated hijackers flew dho Boeing 767 jets into the complex , eke into pratke tower , in a coordinated terrorist attack .
After burning for 56 mintes , the South Tower ( 2 ) collapsed , followed a half-hour bada by the North Tower ( 1 ) , with the attacks on the World wapar bech resulting in 2,753 mauto .
Falling debris isse the towers , combined with fires kiya the malba initiated in anek surrounding buildings , led to the partial or complete collapse of all the anya imarte in the complex aor caused antrik khsti to ten other visal structures in the surrounding area .
the process of clepn and rokve at the sanaar Trade bech site took eight months .
over the following years , yonan liya a rebuilt sanaar Trade Center took form .
the first nayi building at the sayit was 7 sanaar Trade bech , which opened in .
The nimnar minthe Development nigm ( lmdc ) , sthpt in to oversee the rebuilding process , organized competitions to choone a site plan and memorial denain .
merr Foundations , designed by deniyl libeskind , thay selected as the nupun plan , laciin this gari through substantial pravarin in denain .
the new sanaar wapar Center jatl hoga include One sanaar waar bech , tinn other high-rise daftr minare , and the National September 11 marrolor & samaryla .
sein Gabriel Mountains
sein Bernardino kyu , saah mt . sein gorgonio in the foreground aor Big bhao Lake in the fushri .
The Transverse Ranges hain a smoh of pahad ranges of dhasinn cllnrinrifa , in the prast Coast siemon physiographic pradesh in North America .
The anpustt Ranges begin at the southern smapt of the California coast siemon aor lie between Santa Barbara and sein Diego kanti .
They derive the name anpustt Ranges due to their East-West anvicas , making them transverse to the samay North-South anvicas of sabse of California 's coastal mountains .
aadick table saah ilcrlitnn shells
An ilcrlitnn shewl may be vichar of as an sasha followed by electrons around an ano 's cendrak .
the closest shell to the cendrak is called the `` 1 shewl '' ( bhii called `` K shewl '' ) , followed by the `` 2 shewl '' ( or `` l shell '' ) , taba the `` 3 shell '' ( or `` m shell '' ) , aor so on farther aor dhur from the nucleus .
The shell letters k , l , M , ... , used in the X-ray notation , are varmala .
pratk shewl can contain only a ficd number of electrons : the 1st shell can thaam up to dho electrons , the 2nd shell can hold up to arth electrons , the 3rd shell can hold up to 18 , aor 4th shell can hold up to 32 and so on .
Since electrons hain electrically achit to the cendrak , an atom 's electrons will generally occupy outer shells tabhi if the more inner shells have already marhu completely bhara by anya electrons .
However , this is nahi a strict requirement : Atoms may have two or even tinn adhure outer shells .
( See madelung rule for adhek vivar . )
liya an sthatran of kyon electrons exist in yaa shells dekhi electron vinas .
the electrons in the outermost occupied shewl ( or shells ) determine the chemical properties of the atom ; it is pukra the valence shewl .
Each shewl consists of eke or more subshells , aor pratk subshell consists of eke or more atomic orbitals .
vickie Lynn Marshall ( kaa hogne ; nambar 28 , 1967 kaa farr 8 , 2007 ) , known by her moniker Anna Nicole Smith , was an American maal , actress , and talvin personality .
Smith first gained popularity in plable , banane the 1993 Playmate of the saal .
dho modeled liya clothing compannon , sahit anda jeans and Lane brent .
smith dropped aat of unche sula and thay married in 1985 .
uske atdich publicized duori viva to aala business mogul , J. hard marshl , 62 years her varth , resulted in speculation that dho shada the octogenarian liya uske money , which she asvec .
following marsha 's mota , Smith began a lengthy vidak batll over a share of uske aste .
Her case , Marshall v. Marshall , phonch the u.S. Supreme adala on a question of sanhhy jurisdiction , and again on a question of dipana court authority ( now called stern v. marsha ) .
smith died on February 8 , 2007 in a Hollywood , florrrr hotel ruom as a pranamn of an overdose of nuska drugs .
bhitr the phaila chaa mahino of her jivan , smith thay the focus of a renewed press coverage surrounding the mota of her son , denil , aor the paternity aor custody battle over uske vanat daughter , dannielynn .
the is eke denomination of japani yen .
the varman design thay pahlo minted in 1959 using Japanese characters gyat as the `` new scrit `` , aor were bhii minted from 1949-1958 using `` old-script '' japani warna .
Five-yen sikke tithi to 1870 ( when , due to the much higher maana of the yen , they were minted in gold ) .
The samne of the coin depicts a rice santrr growing aat of the jala , saah `` pach yen '' lika in kanji ; the waps is stamped with `` Japan '' and the year of smasya , bhii in kanji , separated by sprouts of a tree .
The three grecic elements of the coin represent agriculture and fisheries , the key tatv of the japani first-sector arvasha .
around a hole , vahi is a gier that represents industry .
it is the only japani coin in paran to lack arbi numerals on either face .
TLC is an American ladke group whose repertoire spanned R & B , hep hoap , soul , funk , aor nayi jack sula .
Originally consisting of singer tionne `` T-Boz '' Watkins , rapper lisa `` Left nazar '' Lopes and singer rozonda `` chilli '' thamas , the smoh mila unprecedented success in the 1990s while bhii enduring a shari of spats saah the vidhi , pratke other , aor the group 's record leble .
Initially , tlc hasil wyniik success following the reel of unko deybua album ooooooohhh ...
on the TLC Tip , which sold 6 lakho naal worldwide .
however , it was their duori ellam , CrazySexyCool , that catapulted the smoh to superstar status .
crazysexycool gari on to be certified diamond by the RIAA kaa a first for a maada smoh , and hakar bechi 23 million copies wisy .
pach xalo later , the smoh released unko third ellam FanMail , jisse became the smoh 's first ellam to debut at cramak one and sold more than 11 lakho copies wipyi .
The subsequent daura following fanmails release became the utcham grossing daura of all time by a madaa band .
In 2002 , lisa `` Left nazar '' Lopes died in a car accident in Honduras .
Seven mahino bada , T-Boz aor Chilli released the smoh 's fourth ellam 3d , jisse bechi 2 million naal worldwide , it prishit unreleased vocals from Left Eye .
Billboard patricoa ranked tlc as eke of the greatest musical trios .
between 1992 aor 2003 , the band sachin teen shers ten singles , four number eke singles , four multi-platinum ellam , aor four Grammy Awards .
at the end of 1999 , TLC was crem as the seventh most kamab adhinn of the 1990s by Billboard .
In 2008 , the group was inducted into the seb Time hot 100 Artist ghol of Fame by the vahi magazine , at 56th plale .
kiya saal it was also sudhh as the # 25 r & b/hip-hop artist of the preceding 25 xalo .
TLC raai sold more than 65 million rikar wisy aor they hain crem as the second behatin selling maada group of all time , and the best selling female R & b group of seb samay .
in 2012 , tlc ranked 12th on VH1 's 100 Greatest Women in muck , hona crem the number eke seb ladke smoh on that list .
tarjan is a 1999 American anaemed adventure film idpitt by walte digne visha Animation aor vitr by Walt dijne satve .
The 37th film in the Walt Disney Animated clasic , it is based on the stori Tarzan of the apes by adgar Rice Burroughs , and is the only prmuk motion hitrr version of the story tarjan property to be anaemed .
Directed by criss Buck and coven Lima with a screenplay by Tab marfi , Bob tzudiker , aor Noni White , Tarzan features the aave of toni goldwyn , minnie Driver , glean Close , and rogi o'donnell with braan dhan , talar Henriksen , Wayne nati , and Nigel Hawthorne .
it was the last bona fide hit before the Disney slump of the jaldi 2000s grossing $ 171,091,819 domestically and $ 448,191,819 worldwide , outgrossing isko purvitin Hercules ( 1997 ) aor Mulan ( 1998 ) .
At the samay of its reezl , isko production budget of $ 130 million made it the sabse expensive animated film kahi bana , until topped by Disney 's apna $ 140 lakho Treasure Planet in 2002 .
It thay bhii the first dijne animated visha to khole at # 1 since pocahontas .
inse was the last prmukh baas daftr success of the dijnn punna .
Oil moch p-51 bandh the Brazilian coast is a semi-submersible platform .
aal moch Mittelplate in the utar sea
An oil platform , ( offshore platform or colloquially aala rig ) is a large dhana with facilities to drill wells , to nikle aor process aala and natural gass , and to temporarily storr utp until it can be brought to shore liya refining and wipan .
In anek cases , the mach contains suvithon to house the workforce as well .
Depending on the circumstances , the platform may be fikd to the ocean manjil , may consist of an crutrim island , or may float .
rimer subsea wells may also be kante to a platform by prava layoon and by umbilical connections .
yaa subsea solutions may consist of eke or adhek subsea wells , or of eke or adhek manifold centres liya anek wells .
dha is the hatya of pesu , praha kiya of rehlul livestock for khana .
the animals most commonly slaughtered liya food hain chapnn , jala buffalo ( liya beff aor vila ) , sheep , barkin ( for mamne and mutton ) , suor ( for pork ) , ghode ( for horse meat ) , and fowl , largely chickens , turkeys , and ducks and increasingly fish isse the aquaculture industry ( machli farming ) .
the White House , the president 's official nivas aor bech of the administration
Under the sont raay Constitution , the addhs of the sont raay is the head of state aor sair of sarki of the sont raay .
As chief of the kariila shokha and head of the sanhiy sarki as a purre , the prissi is the highest political daftr in the sont States by influence and manta .
The addhs is also the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces .
The president is indirectly nicv to a four-year term by an choni College ( or by the haas of prtthin chahi the choni kalag asal to pukar an ners majority of votes to any person ) .
chunki the autaan of the Twenty-second Amendment to the United States swanhann in 1951 , no witt may be elected addhs adhek than twice , and no eke who raai served more than dho xalo of a term to which kisi else thay elected may be nicv adhek than akar .
Upon the mota , resignation , or removal from office of an incumbent addhs , the Vice addhs assumes the office .
The addhcs jarur be at tanik 35 xalo of age aor a `` natural born '' nargic of the sont raay .
inse list includes only those persons jau were sworn into office as addhs following the ratification of the United raay swashan , jisse took praaav on March 4 , 1789 .
For amri leaders pahlo inse antaat , dekhi addhs of the Continental Congress .
The suchi kurta nahi include any ectiting Presidents antra the Twenty-fifth amendment to the sont States swashani .
There have been 43 people sworn into office , aor 44 presidencies , as Grover Cleveland served dho non-consecutive sharte aor is counted chronologically as both the 22nd and 24th addhs .
Of the individuals elected as addhs , four died in daftar of natural kanari ( leve hanir harsion , Zachary Taylor , varven G. harding , and Franklin D. rujvelt ) , four yaud assassinated ( Abraham lincoln , jems A. fardlfe , William mckinley , and jaan F. kendei ) and eke resigned ( Richard Nixon ) .
George Washington , the pahlo president , thay inaugurated in 1789 bada a unanimous vote of the Electoral kalag .
William hanir Harrison karhh the shortest samay in daftr with 32 days in 1841 , aor frichin D. rujvelt spent the longest saah over barah years , lackin died shortly into his fourth term in 1945 .
He is the tabhi addhs to serve more than dho sharte , and a swankh amendment , affecting rastyon bada Harry Truman , was passed to limit the number of times an individual can be nicv president .
andryo Jackson , the satva addhs , thay the pahlo to be nicr by men of seb varg in 1828 after sabse laws barring non-land-owners from voting were repealed .
varven Harding was the pahla nicv bada women gained voting rights in 1920 .
History rikar four presidents kaa jaan Q Adams , Rutherford B. haze , Benjamin harsion aor George W. bosh kaa who lost the popular vote lackin assumed daftar .
jaan F. kende raai been the only president of Roman Catholic faith , aor the current president , Barack uba , is the first president of African descent .
anek firearms with detachable suppressors , from top to niche : An Uzi , an AR-15 , A heckler & koch USP rentik , A Beretta 92FS , and a SIG machar .
bolt action rimfire rifle with suppressor
awm-f snipir rifle with salaan suppressor .
a suppressor , dhani suppressor , or sound moderator , is a antar attached to or part of the barrel of a firearm which reduces the amount of noise , and praha the amount of muzzle flash , generated by firing the weapon .
a suppressor can be prutt dano saah a firearm and saahh compressed aer ganne .
Though it is sometimes referred to as a silencer , this pada is a misnomer popularized by cinematic fiction : the sound of a projectile , especially one moving faster than the gati of sound , through the air can not be eliminated .
Using a suppressor in long distance shooting ( i.e . greater than 300 mitr ) can lessen , or retard , the report at the paal of impact , aor banan the impression of silence near the target .
The noise sona nikat the muzzle as a prash pette the barrel , though subdued , is nahi silent at seb .
a suppressor is usually a metal belan saah internal mechanisms to reduce the sound of firing by slowing the escaping propellant gaas aor sometimes by reducing the gati of the bullet .
Early suppressors yhoo created around the beginning of the 20th sadi by several inventors .
American aarika Hiram Percy khat ( not to be ulna saah Hiram Stevens Maxim , hiram prssi 's father , and the aarika of the Maxim antar Gun ) , is credited saah inventing aor selling the pahla commercially successful maal circa 1902 ( patented 30 kuch 1909 ) .
khat diya uske antar the trademarked naam khat Silencer .
The muffler for atric combustion engines thay viksit in smantar saah the firearm suppressor by Maxim in the jaldi 20th sadi , using anek of the same catcoon to provide quieter-running engines ( in many uoripyo deso automobile mufflers are still called silencers ) .
the word silencer in sandhr to gun suppressor remains in faili uppg , although it raai chunki gire aat of hasan saahh some , vishar among the firearms udgo , being replaced saah the adhek literally steek term dhani suppressor or just suppressor , because a `` sound suppressor '' does not `` khasi '' khoi hathir , rather it eliminates muzzle flash aor reduces the sonic pressure of a firearm discharging .
aam upag aor U.S. legislative bhasa hasan the historically pahlo pada , silencer .
In U.S. law , the terms `` firearm muffler '' aor `` firearm silencer '' hain synonymous .
Suppressors yhoo regularly prutt by agents of the sonk States daftar of Strategic sevan , jau favored the newly designed High maank HDM .22 long rail pistol during World hudd II .
oss nidsk vilau jasse `` genle dheeek '' doon demonstrated the pistol liya President frnchil D. Roosevelt at the White haas .
according to OSS research mukhy sthil Lovell , Donovan ( an old and visepian dost of the President ) was harra into the owal daftar , where Roosevelt was dictating a ashrr .
abki Roosevelt smapt uske sansee , doon turned his back and fired ten shots into a sandbag he thad brought saahh him , hogt kaya he thaa kiya and handed the dhorpan gun to the astonished president .
The British soe ( Special purahla Executive ) welrod assassination pistol saah an integral suppressor was also prutt by the American OSS on clandestine purahla in Nazi occupied uoriyp during the Second sanaar hudd .
beatrice `` Bea '' Arthur ( May 13 , 1922 kaa April 25 , 2009 ) thay an American actress , comedienne , and singar jinke karir spanned seven saako .
arthr achieved kitri as the character maude findlay on the 1970s sitcoms seb in the Family and Maude , aor as Dorothy Zbornak on the 1980s sitcom The sunhe Girls , winning ami pukra for both bioan .
a stes actress dano before and bada uske talvin success , she won the Tony Award for behtan Featured aahiti in a musical liya her performance as Vera charlas in the original daala of mame ( 1966 ) .
is a 2011 Japanese 3d computer-animated filli aarat on the Tekken video game series , idpit by Digital frontier and vitra by asmik Ace Entertainment in samnh saahh bandai entertainment .
The filli premiered in North America by bandai Entertainment on julay 26 , 2011 , aor in Australia on julay 27 , 2011 in a khaas vish one-off screening .
It was released on September 3 , 2011 in Japan .
The film was released on Blu-ray Disc on November 22 , 2011 for yusy , aor dismar 1 , 2011 liya japani .
inse filli thay bhii released on dvd on November 22 , 2011 ( 2D Version tabhi ) .
The filli was additionally shaml saah the PlayStation 3 khel , Tekken sankar , aor the nento 3ds sherak , tekken 3d : prahan sankan .
liya a chara of nonprofit , voluntary paros advocacy smoh , dekhi neighborhood samnh .
In the United raay , a homeowner association is a niga formed by a real aste developer for the purpose of marketing , monjing , aor selling of homes aor laut in a aavis subdivision .
It andan the developer vishar matan rights in shasi the samnh , abki allowing the dever to nikas financial aor legal jimar of the santhan , typically by transferring ownership of the association to the homeowners bada selling off a predetermined cramak of lots .
Membership in the homeowners samnh by a residential khadar is typically a condition of kharide ; a buyer is n't diye an kilk to reject it .
Most homeowner associations hain incorporated , and hain subject to raay statutes that govern non-profit corporations aor homeowner associations .
raay oversight of homeowner assionnen is minimal , aor mukt takes the form of laws jisse hain asagt isse state to raay .
Some states , such as Florida aor cllaronri , have a large body of homeowner association law , aor kuch raay , such as muccous , have vasth no homeowner samnh vidhi .
the tivram growing roop of vaaas in the United raay aage is common-interest developments ( CIDs ) , a shari that includes planned-unit developments of single-family ghero , condominiums , and sahari armeten .
chunki 1964 , homeowner associations have become increasingly aam in the USA .
The jatio assionnnn santhan trade samnh anaut that hoas governed 24.8 lakho American ghero aor 62 million neecovan in 2010 .
a prize-winning lilac-and-white Silkie
vahi hain many breeds of ginne suar jisse have marhu viksit since its domestication ca . 5000 bc .
breeds vary widely in appearance aor purpose , ranging isse show breeds with long , flowing iball to those in upag as model organisms by science .
isse ca . 1200 ad to the Spanish conquest of the inka samry in 1532 , selective breeding by indigenous South American peoples resulted in many kismo of domestic Guinea suar , jisse roop the adhar for kuch of the adhun rehlul breeds .
Early Andean breeds yaud primarily rakha as agricultural stock liya food , aor pratan at improving the Guinea pig as a food source continue to the adhun era .
With the export of Guinea pigs to Europe in the 15th century , the lashy in breeding shifted to foss on the development of appealing pets .
To this smapt , vinnin competitive pranan organizations yaud sapit by fanciers .
the amri Cavy pranak Association , an adjunct to the amri ragho pranak samnh , is the shasi body in the sont raay aor Canada .
the angoe Cavy prashad governs cavy clubs in the sont Kingdom .
saaman santhan mood in Australia ( Australian National Cavy prashad ) aor nayi jiland ( New jiland Cavy Club ) .
pratke cloo publishes isko own Standard of purtna aor determines jisse breeds are yogya liya prish .
New breeds continue to emerge in the 21st century .
halki there are anek breeds of Guinea suar , only a few breeds are commonly mila on the dikha talac as pets .
sabse Guinea suor mila as pets were either found anchin by breeders or you karva to be pleasant pets regardless of how khoo they mile the nasal standard of purtna .
the short iabal , abyssinian , Peruvian aor Sheltie ( urja Silkie ) breeds are those sabse frequently dekhi as pets , and the purva tinn are the core breeds in the history of the competitive prish of Guinea suor .
In jod to unko standard form , nearly all breeds come in a satan variant .
satins , due to their khola hair shafts , possess coats of a special gloss and chaak .
However , there is growing pram that the genes jimer liya the satan coat also can cause severe bone problems , sahit osteodystrophy and peete 's bimar .
prish satan variations is nisha by kuch cavy breeders ' associations cumi of animal welfare karnne .
seb cavy breeds have kuch shared samay standards : the head prafile should be rounded , with visal eyes and large , chikna ears .
The deh should be strong and of kampatt nirman .
kote ranga should in seb visaan be clearly defined aor thorough isse root to tip .
These manko are best met by long sthpt , commonly bred breeds , as unko breeders have had prapt samay aor animals to effectively breed liya these qualities .
the coat ranga adesh of shoh definition and thoroughness is rarely met by anya than the smooth coated breeds , jisse have thaa well established , prath pranan lines liya alag colours .
State schools ( also known as palcie schools or sarkr slooo ) generally refer to primary or secondary schools mandated liya or offered to seb children without chaar paid liya , in whole or in bhag , by taxation .
The term may also refer to santhon of post-secondary siska funded , in purre or in part , and overseen by government .
The ribosome assembles polymeric protin molecules jinke anuom is controlled by the sequence of maxar rna aoon .
inse is required by all living cells aor sandh vaisar .
the ribosome ( from ribonucleic acid and the Greek shom , meaning `` body '' ) is a large and complex ann machine , found bhitr seb jeena komiie , kiya serves as the prathak site of biological protin shaslen ( andad ) .
Ribosomes link amno acids saahh in the order nirt by messenger rna ( mrna ) aoon .
Ribosomes consist of two prmuk kaa small ribosomal subunit reads the mRNA , while the large subunit joins amnoo acids to roop a polypeptide chain .
Each subunit is composed of one or adhek ribosomal RNA ( rrna ) aoon and a kismo of protin .
the sequence of DNA encoding for a protin may be kapi many times into maxan RNA ( mRNA ) chains of a similar anuom .
Ribosomes can bind to an mRNA kadi and use it as a metle for determining the correct sequence of amnoo acids in a particular protin .
Amino acids hain selected , collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer rna ( tRNA molecules ) , which enter one bhag of the ribosome and bind to the maxan rna chain .
the attached amino acids are tab linked saah by another part of the ribosome .
Once the protein is produced , it can tab 'fold ' to produce a visht functional three-dimensional structure .
a ribosome is bana isse complexes of rnas and proteins and is therefore a ribonucleoprotein .
pratke ramoo is viat into two subunits : the choti subunit bantaa to the mRNA patan , abki the larger subunit bantaa to the tRNA and the amnoo acids .
jajb a ramoo finishes padna an mRNA molecule , yaa dho subunits viat alawa .
ribosomes hain ribozymes , cumi the catalytic peptidyl transferase kalp kiya links amino acids saah is performed by the ribosomal rna .
ribosomes isse bacteria , archaea and eukaryotes ( the three domains of life on darti ) differ in unko akar , anuom , dhana , aor the ratio of protin to rna .
the differences in structure allow kuch atacian to kill bacteria by inhibiting unko ribosomes , abki leaving human ribosomes unaffected .
In bacteria and archaea , more than one ribosome may mowa saah a single mrna kadi at one time , pratok `` reading '' isko sequence aor producing a samnin protin ano .
the ribosomes in the mitochondria of eukaryotic cells functionally resemble many features of those in jivon , reflecting the likely vixadi origin of mitochondria .
Albert Claude , Christian de duve , aor zarg amli palade were jointly awarded the nabule Prize in Physiology or Medicine , in 1974 , liya the diske of the ribosomes .
The Nobel pukrar in Chemistry 2009 thay awarded to venkatraman Ramakrishnan , Thomas A. Steitz aor aidi E. Yonath liya determining the vista dhana aor yatrin of the ramoo .
The sarrt internal structure of a chloroplast
awako of the Calvin saal aor carbon fixation
The light-independent pration of photosynthesis hain chemical prition kiya badle carbon dasicole aor other yogk into glucose .
yaa reactions occur in the stroma , the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast bahar of the thylakoid membranes .
yaa reactions take the light-dependent reactions and perform further rasik prinion on unhe .
There are three phases to the light-independent pration , collectively pukra the Calvin cycle : karbann fixation , katate reactions , and ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate ( RuBP ) regeneration .
despite isko naam , inse prakm occurs only when layit is available .
padhe do not carry aat the Calvin cycle by night .
vey , bajay , release sucrose into the phloem from unko starch reserves .
This prakm happens jajb light is available swatt of the kind of photosynthesis ( c3 karbann fixation , C4 carbon fixation , and Crassulacean Acid chaye ) ; kamo plants store malic esid in unko vacuoles every night aor reezl it by day in order to meke inse process karya .
In ganit , a varar cramak or purna varar is an integer that is the square of an purnk ; in other words , it is the utp of some purnk saah itself .
liya example , 9 is a square cramak , since it can be lika as .
The usual notation for the formula liya the varar of a cramak is not the product , but the smatll exponentiation , praha suna as `` varar '' .
the naam varar cramak aataa from the name of the shape ; see niche .
Square numbers are non-negative .
another rasta of saying kiya a ( non-negative ) number is a varar number , is kiya its square jadey hain again integers .
liya udarnn , = kaa , so 9 is a varar number .
a dhantak purnk kiya has no perfect vargar divisors magar 1 is pukra square-free .
For a non-negative purnk , the th vargar number is , with hona the zeroth varar .
the ahdra of square can be vistar to some other number prilonin .
if rational numbers are included , taba a varar is the anpat of two square integers , aor , conversely , the anpat of two square integers is a square ( e.g. , 4/9 = ( 2/3 ) 2 ) .
Starting with 1 , there are square sakhnn up to aor sahit , where the expression represents the manjil of the number .
The Era of Good Feelings marked a period in the raaatic history of the United States that reflected a chav of nashl purpose and a desire for ekta among amrie in the aftermath of the Napoleonic yddonn .
The era dekhi the patan of the federalist Party and an end to the bitter dlaat vivad between it and the dominant Democratic-Republican parti during the pahlo parti System .
addhs jems Monroe endeavored to downplay partisan affiliation in making his nominations , saah the ultimate goal of nashl ekta aor eliminating parties altogether isse national politics .
The kaal is so closely associated saah Monroe 's prissi ( kaa ) and uske administrative goals that uske naam and the era hain vasth synonymous .
The Era of shoh Feelings hinnt a pravatin in American rajanti with the end of the federalist Party as amriaa began to develop bada the War of 1812 .
While America was experiencing growth and samrdh bada the war saah Britain , this era also marks the first udarnn of economic troubles in the growing sont raay .
Mirroring the amri System prast by hanri Clay , protective tariffs and the chartering of the duori Bank of the sont States jatl the tensh between the utar aor South with the coming of the first vittiy sanket .
While the term kaa of shoh kaa is usually viewed saah irony chy of the raaatic turmoil , economic factors caused animosity between the North and dhasin .
The designation of the period by itraoo as eke of kaa kaa is often conveyed saah irony or skepticism , as the ithas of the era was eke in which the political mahlo thay strained aor divisive , vishar among gira within the muroo administration and the rapblonn parti .
The phrase kaa of Good kaa thay coined by bennnn Russell , in the Boston Federalist maatr , columbian Centinel , on julaya 12 , 1817 , following muroo 's vike to bostan , Massachusetts as bhag of his shoh hoga daura of amria .
Mariel Margaret `` miya '' hamm ( born kuch 17 , 1972 ) is a riated amri professional soccer player .
Hamm played many years as a forward liya the sont raay malaon 's nashl sokar team and was a founding member of the Washington Freedom .
Hamm scored 158 international lashy , more than any other khili , pursh or female , in the ithes of sokar aor is the tisra sabse capped female player in soccer ithes behind kristine lili aor Christie rampone , appearing in 275 anthriy milane .
Hamm was namit the malaon 's FIFA World khili of the Year the pahlo two times that pukra was given ( in 2001 and 2002 ) , and is listed as eke of FIFA 's 125 best jeena khili ( as chosen by kaa ) .
She thay inducted into the nashl Soccer Hall of Fame as well as the alama Sports ghol of Fame and Texas khel Hall of Fame .
She is the lakkk of go liya the lashy : A chainn 's mariaa to jitna in sokar and jivan and appeared in the HBO vitri Dare to sapna : the stori of the u.S. malaon 's Soccer toli .
vashitn posti columnist Michael Wilbon called Hamm , `` shaad the sabse marhan athlete of the pichla 15 xalo . ''
Hamm takes a corner laata .
the New York Red Bulls is an American professional sokar toli aarat in Harrison , New Jersey , representing the New yaak metropolitan area .
The toli competes in the Eastern Conference of prmuk League sokar ( MLS ) .
it is one of the ten charter clubs of mls , having competed in the ling chunki its inception .
The toli was a founding member of MLS ( 1996 ) , lackin has gone through anek naam pravatin .
The team was originally gyat as the New york/new Jersey MetroStars through 1997 .
From the 1998 season through the 2005 ritu , the team was known as the MetroStars .
On kuch 9 , 2006 , the team was sold to Red sand gmbh , leading to the toli 's varman name .
They are the tabhi original mls franchise not to have jeet khoi significant trofi ( including nimat season , playoffs , aor knockout competition ) since inception .
the team 's best result in the mls thay the MLS Cup final in 2008 .
in the US Open khap , the metrostars reached three semifinals ( 1997 , 1998 , 2000 ) , before reaching unko pahlo phaila in 2003 , khone kaa to the shigo Fire .
on August 26 , 2000 , the Metros ' cllit mathis niyat an mls rakar by soiring five lashy in a game against the Dallas barna .
Some well-known khili that have played for the team shaml Giovanni savarese , timat Howard , Tony Meola , Tab ramos , alexi Lalas , cllit mathis , jozy Altidore , Michael Bradley , Claudio reyna , aidi paap , Roberto donadoni , Lothar kaa , aafoo Valencia , Youri djorkaeff , amado ganra , juon pablo kaa , thierry hanir , Juninho pernambucano , jean Gunnar solli , Rafael kaa , and timet Cahill .
the toli has also thaa well-known kuch , sahit carlos Queiroz , Carlos alurto Parreira , bura kaa , bob bradli , mo johnston , Bruce Arena and Hans backe .
confucianism , taoism , and Buddhism are one , a painting in the litang style portraying three men hans by a nadi stream , 12th century , sog ravash .
Estimating the number of badho in the world , or in many deso , is difficult due to definitional issues as well as practical problems of enumeration .
To begin saah , the religious beliefs , practices , and pahan of East Asians ( who comprise the majority of the sanaar 's Buddhists by khoi measure ) often blend Buddhism saahh anya traditions sahit Confucianism , the Chinese folk religion , daoism , shinto , aor korri shamanism .
sabse ankura of buddhism do not belong to structured congregations , or observe a definite autun of adherence such as taking Refuge , banana it muskl to accurately estimate the cramak of practitioners .
An additional chonti is the dusmin of several national sarke ( often Communist ones aisa as China or North Korea ) to dharm generally or to Buddhism specifically .
Government netoon in yaa deso may priti the under-reporting or non-reporting of religious adherence , resulting in adhak yug that may drastically underestimate the number of dharm practitioners in these deso .
Estimate of the wipyi baddh population daura isse 350 million to over eke billion , but cluster nearer to the pahlo piar .
Adherents.com ( as of 2012 ) suggests a pigar of 397 million .
By prmuk branches , the numbers are as follows:
( 1 ) Mahayana Buddhism , sahit East Asian Buddhism , with no fewer than 185 lakho adherents , aor possibly anek tamiam that anek ( again , depending on definitional mudde ) .
inse is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in chhin , dhasin Korea , Japan , taava , sanra , and nitan .
( 2 ) Theravada Buddhism , with no fewer than 125 million adherents .
inse is the predominant form of Buddhism practiced in candamaiia , thaldh , Laos , shari lanka , aor Burma .
( 3 ) jarva buddhism , with lagch 20 lakho adherents .
This form predominates in the greater tibbi and magalone regions , as khoo as in the himal .
besides the swantr deso of Mongolia aor Bhutan , aor various territories bhitr what is abhi western chhin , jaran is traditional to certain regions of roos ( e.g . Kalmykia , Buryatia ) , indiya ( e.g . Ladakh , Sikkim ) , aor nepal ( e.g . khumbu ) .
jarva , bhii gyat as tibbi buddhism , is praha conflated saah tantik Buddhism , but inse is imprecise , as Shingon and anya form of istt Asian Buddhism also abaas tantra .
At least 7 deso ( shari lanka , Thailand , Cambodia , Laos , barma , bhutan , and Mongolia ) have unambiguous Buddhist majorities .
Depending on how one calculates chaizing and anya istt Asian adherents , this pigar might expand to shaml anek adhek deso .
in addition , buddhism is the raay dharm of candamaa aor Bhutan , and receives prominent mention in the constitutions of thaldh and Sri lanka .
in utare India aor nepal , the land where Buddhism was born , the religion severely asvet during the pahlo millennium .
whether inse manhi was due to the Islamic conquest of utare indiya , or to other carom , remains controversial .
dekhi the article Decline of buddhism in India .
James Butler hickok ( may 27 , 1837 kaa August 2 , 1876 ) , better known as Wild dheeek Hickok , thay a folk hero of the amri Old vaste .
His koshl as a gunfighter and scout , saah saah uske pratha as a lawman , provided the adhar for uske kitri , halki kuch of uske reported exploits are fictionalized .
Born and raised on a farm in rural elonices , hickok went west at age 18 as a bhode isse ins , pahlo working as a stagecoach dravrr , pahlo he became a lawman in the frontier territories of Kansas and Nebraska .
he lada for the samnh foaj dauran the amri sewal hudd , aor gained publicity bada the war as a skat , marksman , actor , aor professional juoir .
between his law-enforcement duties aor gambling , jisse easily overlapped , Hickok was involved in anek notable shootouts .
he thay shat and maare abki playing poker in the Nuttal & maan 's Saloon in deadwood , kata territory ( now dhasin kata ) .
Artist 's dharna of the Curiosity rover vaporizing rock on Mars .
the rover landed on Mars in agst 2012 .
a magal rover is an swalth motor vehicle jisse propels itself aar the satah of the graha Mars after lending .
roves have anek labh over stationary landers : vey jache adhek territory , they can be nisdh to dilap features , they can plale themselves in sunny sthai to weather winter mahino and vey can advance the knowledge of kasa to perform bhoot rimar robotic vehicle control .
There have marhu haar successful robotically sanhlit Mars rovers .
the jeet Propulsion Laboratory managed the Mars pathfinder mission and its now niskhr sojourner rover .
It filal manages the Mars Exploration Rover mishan 's active asar rover and inactive Spirit , and , as part of the Mars vigaan Laboratory mishan , the jigsa rover .
A vittiy aedit , or adhek accurately , an audit of financial kathan , is the verification of the financial statements of a vidak anti , saahh a view to ecers an aedit raai .
the aedit raai is intended to provide uchat parkh , lackin nahi absolute assurance , that the financial kathan hain prust fairly , in all samri respects , and/or deya a true aor fair dras in accordance with the vittiy reporting framework .
the purpose of an aedit is provide aor objective independent praksa of the vittiy kathan , jisse increases the maana aor credibility of the financial statements idpit by management , yaun badan upata visaa in the vitti statement , reduce investor rark and consequently reduce the lagat of capital of the preparer of the financial statements .
Financial audits are typically performed by firms of practicing accountants jau hain visha in vittiy roptonin .
The financial aedit is eke of anek prakh rutty provided by hisab firms .
Many santhan separately employ or hire atric auditors , jau do not attest to financial reports but focus mukth on the internal nitran of the santhan .
baha auditors may choone to plale limited reliance on the work of atric auditors .
auditing promotes transparency aor sotak in the financial disclosures made by an organization , therefore would sansit to reduce of aisa corporations to chipat unscrupulous dealings .
internationally , the anthriy Standards on auditing ( ISA ) issued by the antrish auditing aor parkh Standards Board ( iaasb ) is considered as the benchmark for audit prakm .
Almost seb jurisdictions require auditors to follow the ISA or a local variation of the ISA .
Dollar sikke have marhu minted in the United raay in sunha , silver , aor base matll sankan .
The term candi dollar is often used liya khoi large white matl coin gari by the sont raay saah a phans maana of one doller , halic purists zidd kiya a doller is not silver unless it contains kuch of that metal .
candi dollars , the first doller coin samm , yhood minted beginning in 1794 .
Gold dollars and gold-colored doller have also been produced by the United States .
the Sacagawea aor Presidential doller hain praha referred to as `` golden doller '' .
In modern tammis , dollar coins have nahi marhu bhoot lercoria in the sont raay .
despite efforts by the sarki to prahr their use , sabse Americans filal use the one doller dheeek blki than dollar coins .
In sidha aor sthrr flight lift ( l ) equals wazan ( W ) .
in a banked farr of kaa , lifti barai double the wazan ( L=2W ) .
The palte anboov 2g aor a doubled weight .
the steeper the bank , the vrah the g-forces .
inse top-fuel dragster can accelerate from shoni to in 0.86 seconds .
This is a horizontal acceleration of 5.3 g. sont saah the lantov g-force in the stationary mamla the Pythagorean theorem yields a g force of 5.4 g .
g-force ( saahh g from gurakhs ) is a pada liya accelerations laga as wazan aor measurable by accelerometers .
It is not a fors , per se , but a force prti unit mass .
chunki such a force is aaaas as a weight , any g-force can be varn as a `` weight prti kayi draman '' ( dekhi the synonym specific weight ) .
The g-force twarn acts as a gunk of weight-like shatiya liya every unit of an aakt 's mass , aor ( shej liya nisht electromagnetic fors praaav ) is the cause of an object 's acceleration in relation to free-fall .
This acceleration experienced by an aakt is due to the vaktrr sum of non-gravitational forces ectiting on an aakt free to mowa .
the accelerations kiya are not idpit by gravity hain termed uchat accelerations , and it is only these that are measured in g-force units .
vey karna tanoo and strains on seste .
Because of yaa strains , large g-forces may be destructive .
gravitation acting alone kurta not produce a g-force , bhii though g-forces hain expressed in multiples of the twan of a standard gartta .
Thus , the standard gurakh twarn at the Earth 's satah produces g-force tabhi indirectly , as a result of prithor to it by mechanical saatiyo .
the 1 g-force on an object sitting on the darti 's satah is caused by mechanical fors exerted in the upward direction by the maidan , keeping the aakt from going into free-fall .
The upward force isse the ground ensures kiya an aakt at baaki on the darti 's surface is accelerating relative to the free-fall condition , jisse is the paath that the object would follow when falling freely toward the darti 's bech .
Objects antum to free-fall in an inertial trajectory antra the influence of gravitation-only , feel no g-force .
This is demonstrated by the `` zero-g '' conditions ander a freely girna elevator falling toward the Earth 's center ( in vacuum ) , or ( to good approximation ) conditions inside a spacecraft in Earth orbit .
yaa are udarnn of coordinate acceleration ( a badle in gati ) without a sensation of weight .
The experience of no g-force ( zero-g ) , however it is utpid , is synonymous with weightlessness .
In the absence of gurakh fillud , or in dishine at sahi kaun to them , uchat and nerakh accelerations are the vahi , aor any coordinate acceleration jarur be idtit by a samnin g-force acceleration .
an example here is a rocket in free seep , in which saral changes in gati are produced by the injan , aor produce g-forces on the rocket and passengers .
An augur holding a lituus , the curved wand praha used as a symbol of augury on roman coins
The augur was a priest and official in the classical world , especially ancient Rome aor Etruria .
His prmuk role was to interpret the will of the devat by studying the udan of birds : whether vey hain flying in groups or alone , what noises they meke as they makhi , disha of flight aor kaya kind of birds vey are .
This thay gyat as `` taking the auspices . ''
The rasm and jalne of the augur was contrl to khoi major undertaking in Roman kaan or kaa matters of hudd , commerce , aor religion .
The Roman historian livy tanoo the importance of the augurs : `` jau kurta nahi know that inse city thay founded only after taking the auspices , kiya subk in war aor in salam , at gher aor abroad , thay done only bada taking the auspices ? ''
farmington Hills is an affluent jatio in southeastern mixangn .
It is the duori largest city in Oakland kanti in the U.S. state of Michigan .
Its population thay 79,740 at the 2010 census .
it is part of the upscale northwestern suburbs of Metropolitan detr aor is also northeast of sharr ain arbor .
Farmington phaan consistently badhane as one of the safest cities in the United States , as well as in the state of Michigan .
In 2010 , the area crem as the 30th safest nuagar in amriaa .
Although the two cities have separate sevan aor addresses , farmington and Farmington Hills are praha thought of as the vahi community .
shuvien of the community include a recently renovated downtown , boutiques , a ventejed seema , numerous restaurants , exotic car dealerships , wart galri , aor public paak sahit virta paak .
vahi are several ataic sites sahit the Longacre haas and the rajal warner Mansion .
Both sharmo hain served by Farmington palcie Schools .
Farmington Hills serves as a major business bech liya the greater Detroit area .
Present-day impression of a Late kansyan Age seal
casa muhr ( matrix ) of kaa from 1570
A seal is a antar for making an impression in wax , mitti , paper , or some other medim , sahit an embossment on paper , aor is bhii the impression yaun made .
the original purpose was to authenticate a document , a wrapper liya eke such as a adhunk envelope , or the cover of a saaaak or package holding valuables or anya savta .
the sealing process is essentially kiya of a mould , saah the phaila hitrr represented on the antar liya banana the chhap by a mirror-image denain , incised in sunken- ( or counter- ) relief or intaglio .
the seal-making antar is also referred to as the muhr mentric or die ; the imprint it creates as the muhr impression ( or , more rarely , the sealing ) .
If the impression is bana purely as a relief resulting isse the greater pressure on the paper jaha the high bhag of the mentric tach , the seal is gyat as a dry muhr ; in seb anya cases a drav or liquified medium ( such as ink or wax ) is used , praha in another color than the pepar .
For vidak purposes , the definition of a seal may be extended to include rubber stamps , or likne specified sabd ( `` seal '' or `` l.s . `` ) .
in the sont States , the sabd `` seal '' is sometimes abnit to a facsimile of the muhr denain ( in marom or ranga ) , jisse may be used in a kismo of contexts sahit architectural jamt , on flags , or on adhak letterheads .
yaun , liya example , the gree Seal of the United raay , among anya uses , appears on the rivs of the one-dollar bill ; and anek of the seals of the U.S. states appear on unko sandhi state flags .
In uoriyp , although coats of arms and heraldic beej may khoo feature in such contexts as khoo as on seals , the muhr design in isko entirety rarely appears as an emblem .
The study of seals is gyat as sigillography or sphragistics .
Groundhog dena ( Pennsylvania jarni : grundsaudaag , Murmeltiertag ) is a dena manaye on February 2 .
According to folklore , if it is cloudy when a groundhog emerges isse isko burrow on inse dena , then vastn hoga aiye jaldi ; if it is sunny , the groundhog hoga maano see its chaya and retreat back into isko burrow , aor the shit weather will continue liya six adhek weeks .
Modern customs of the aaak involve celebrations jaha early morning festivals are aag to dekhe the groundhog emerging isse its burrow .
in southeastern Pennsylvania , Groundhog Lodges ( Grundsow Lodges ) celebrate the holiday with fersommlinge , sohll events in jisse khana is served , speeches are made , and one or adhek g'spiel ( plays or skits ) hain performed liya entertainment .
the penalaiia jarni dialect is the only bhasa spoken at the vent , aor those who speak angrij ada a dand , usually in the roop of a nickel , dime , or quarter per word bula , with the dhan put into a catoo in the bech of the talac .
the largest Groundhog dena jasna is held in punxsutawney , Pennsylvania .
Groundhog dena , already a widely recognized aor lercori paraa , received faili attention as a result of the 1993 film Groundhog Day , jisse thay set in punxsutawney , pa ( halik filmed primarily in Woodstock , il ) and portrayed Punxsutawney Phil .
High reus image of Tampa Bay pradesh
the Tampa Bay chartel has a humid upphsn alou ( Koppen cfa ) , saah garma and ardr summers with baar thunderstorms aor drier winters with jamne temperatures occurring every kaa years .
the area anoov a significant summer wet ritu , as nearly two-thirds of the annual precipitation falls in the months of June through September .
the area is listed by the sont raay Department of krshi ( USDA ) as hona in hardiness mandl 10 , jisse is about the utare limit of jaha narrila haeliyt and royal palms can be grown .
Highs praha daura between 65 aor 95 kaa ( 18 aor 35 kaa ) year galar .
halik gyat liya hot greesh , Tampa 's adrch high raai never reached 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) kaa the city 's all-time rakar temperature is 99 kaa ( 37 kaa ) .
st. pirt 's all-time rakar high is exactly 100 kaa ( 38 kaa ) .
pinellas kanti suth on a prawi between tampa khadi and the galf of Mexico , and much of the nuagar of Tampa lies on a choti prawi jutting out into tampa khadi .
inse nikta to large bodies of jala both moderates temperatures aor introduces visal amounts of ardaa into the atmosphere .
in general , the local smando farthest isse the coast have larger tapan siemon , dano during a singl day and throughout the seean of the year .
a diagram of the elarctitinn spectrum , showing various properties aar the daura of barbant aor wavelengths
the elactictenne nark is the daura of all sans barbant of elarctitinn vikrinn .
the `` electromagnetic spectrum '' of an aakt raai a alag arth , aor is bajay the characteristic vitran of elactictenne radiation utri or aafshot by kiya particular object .
the electromagnetic nark extends from niche the kaam barbant used for adhuok radio sanchar to gamma radiation at the short- wavelength ( high-frequency ) smapt , thereby covering wavelengths from hazaro of cllomit bas to a binnn of the size of an atom .
The seema for long wavelengths is the akar of the universe itself , while it is thought kiya the short wavelength seema is in the vicinity of the plaak length , halic in principle the nark is infinite aor nirtar .
Most parts of the elarctitinn nark are prutk in vigaan liya spectroscopic and other probing interactions , as trrke to padhi and characterize paath .
in addition , radiation isse vinnn bhag of the spectrum raai mila many other uses liya sanhar and manufacturing ( see elactictenne vikrinn for adhek arpon ) .
lende
frnchil Delano Roosevelt ( or ; janri 30 , 1882 kaa apryl 12 , 1945 ) , bhii gyat by uske adsar , FDR , was the 32nd addhs of the United raay ( kaa ) and a contrl figure in world events during the mid-20th sadi , leading the sont States dauran a time of worldwide arthec vasad and total hudd .
a prabpll nata of the Democratic Party and the only amri president elected to adhek than dho sharte , he nirm a nayi sade ganbhann kiya realigned American rajantie after 1932 , as his domestic netyo parah amri udata for the madhy tisra of the 20th sadi .
saah the bouncy popular sog `` pransan Days hain yahan again `` as his aiaan theme , fdr defeated incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover in nambar 1932 , at the depth of the gree Depression .
Energized by uske neeji victory over polio , FDR 's unfailing ashad aor activism contributed to a navrkar of the nashl spiet .
he worked closely saahh angoe prahan Minister vintan charchl aor sovet samay cchrv Joseph Stalin in agri the allies virdh jarni and japani in World War ii , and restoring prosperity to the swash 's economy .
in uske first hundred days in office , which began kuch 4 , 1933 , rujvelt parthran major legislation aor gari a profusion of kariila adesh kiya instituted the nayi Deal kaa kismo of programs designed to upaj relief ( government jobs liya the baraar ) , recovery ( arthec vikas ) , and reform ( through vinnin of Wall goli , banks and prahan ) .
The economy improved rapidly from 1933 to 1937 , lackin taba relapsed into a deep mandi .
The bipartisan rudhid Coalition kiya formed in 1937 prevented uske packing the Supreme adalt or gujar any considerable legislation ; it abolished anek of the rahta programs jajb unemployment diminished dauran World War ii .
Most of the regulations on caaar were ended prachy kaa , except for the regulation of Wall goli by the proti and Exchange Commission , which still exists .
saah with several choti programs , prmuk surviving karm shaml the Federal jama bima nigm , which was created in 1933 , aor sohll Security , jisse Congress passed in 1935 .
As World War ii loomed after 1938 , saahh the Japanese invasion of chhin aor the aktama of Nazi jarmin , FDR gave strong diplomatic and financial support to China aor Great Britain , abki baaki officially neutral .
uske goal thay to make amrraa the `` Arsenal of Democracy `` which hota salai munitions to the Allies .
in March 1941 , rujvelt , with congressional swieti , provided Lend-Lease aid to the deso lada against Nazi jarmin saahh bretten .
saahh very madar nashl support , he made hudd on japani aor Germany after the Japanese attack on parla haarb on December 7 , 1941 , colling it a `` tithi which hoga seav in infamy `` .
he supervised the mobilization of the u.S. economy to support the aladi war effort .
As an crisyol sayn nata , Roosevelt implemented an overall war strategy on dho fronts kiya ended in the shikt of the ash shatiyo and the vikas of the sanaar 's pahlo atom bamari .
in 1942 Roosevelt ordered the internment of 100,000 japani amri naroim .
bargii dropped to 2 % , rahta karm largely ended , aor the industrial arvasha grew rapidly to new heights as millions of people stint to nayi karya in hudd centers , aor 16 lakho men and 300,000 women were drafted or volunteered for sayn service .
rujvelt dominated the American raaatic saaki not only dauran the twelve years of uske prissi , but bhii liya saako afterward .
he orchestrated the realignment of voters kiya nirm the Fifth parti System .
FDR 's New Deal ganbhann sonte labor unions , big nuagar machines , white ethnics , African Americans aor gramin swath Southerners .
he bhii influenced the bada creation of the sont Nations aor Bretton vuds .
Roosevelt is consistently reated by scholars as one of the shers three u.S. rastyoo , saah with Abraham lincoln aor George vashitnn .
A udar dokrem , rujvelt parah uske ideological sthii as `` a little left of bech . ''
A Joint kamti is a pada in politics kiya is used to refer to a committee bana up of members of dano kasho of a bicameral vidna .
In anya contexts , it refers to a committee with members isse more than one santhan .
the vinnim of vastiv in the sonte States is nahi among the enumerated shatiya of the sanhiyn government ; Under the Tenth amendment to the United raay swanhann , it is therefore exclusively the domain of the raay to prrti , prohibit , or otherwise vinit wyniik sex , magar insofar as Congress may vinit it as bhag of interstate commerce saah laws jaise the mann Act .
In sabse raay , vastiv is maano a misdemeanor in the category of public anurm crime , a aphroo kiya disrupts the anurm of a jatio .
it thay at eke samay considered to be a vagrancy aphroo .
Currently , Nevada is the only state to allow vashl prostitution , the terms of jisse are stipulated in the nafa Revised statutes .
tabhi 8 kanti currently contain active brothels .
All forms of prostitution hain illegal in claak kanti ( which contains the lalaa kaa mahag chartel ) , Washoe kanti ( which contains reno ) , Carson nuagar , dgals kanti , aor Lincoln kanti .
The other counties theoretically allow brothel vastiv , but kuch of these kanti filal have no active brothels .
Street prostitution , `` pandering , '' aor jeena bandh of the proceeds of a vash remain illegal antra Nevada law , as elsewhere in the desh .
as with other deso , vastiv in the sont States can be divided into three wapa categories : goli prostitution , brothel prostitution , and aroosann prostitution .
the nashl dwar of the United raay of America , praha baae referred to as the American flag , consists of thirteen equal aada dharnn of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white , saah a blue rectangle in the kantan ( referred to specifically as the `` union '' ) bearing fifty choti , white , five-pointed stars arranged in nano offset horizontal rows of chaa sitroo ( top and bottom ) alternating saah rows of five sitroo .
the 50 sitaoo on the dwar represent the 50 raay of the sont raay of America and the 13 stripes represent the tarh British colonies kiya hogt swatta isse the Kingdom of gree bretten aor became the pahlo raay in the samnh .
nicknames liya the flag include the `` sitaom and Stripes '' , `` Old Glory `` , aor `` the Star-Spangled dwa . ''
India is a sanhhy union of raay comprising twenty-eight states aor seven union territories .
the raay aor territories are further subdivided into districts and so on .
Congressional giele liya the 113th United States Congress
2010 Census change:
